-- Deutsche Bahn Seen as Antitrust Compensation Trailblazer
-- B y   G a s p a r d   S e b a g
-- 2013-09-17T08:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/deutsche-bahn-seen-as-antitrust-compensation-trailblazer.html
Deutsche Bahn  AG’s offer to refund
rail-power customers’ electricity charges paves the way for
consumers to get compensation through European Union antitrust
settlements.  The state-owned railway company  offered  last month to give
rivals a “one-time” 4 percent refund in a bid to convince
regulators to drop allegations it abused its market power to
force competitors to pay too much for train electricity. It’s
the first time a refund has been part of an EU settlement.  “There is no faster, fairer and better way to compensate
the victims than to encourage direct compensation by the
infringers,” Jose Rivas, the head of Bird & Bird’s EU and
competition group in Brussels, said by e-mail. Deutsche Bahn’s
offer may provide a template for settlements to channel funds to
those harmed, said Werner Berg, an antitrust lawyer at Crowell &
Moring LLP in Brussels.  EU officials, including Antitrust Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , have struggled  for years  to introduce concrete plans to
make it easier for antitrust victims to sue in national courts.
Enabling companies to make payouts as part of settlements with
the European Commission may create a more efficient shortcut in
many cases.  “Voluntary compensation of the victims makes so much sense
that it is difficult to understand the resistance by the
commission to include it” in Almunia’s damages plan, Rivas
said.  Antitrust Victims  EU data reveal the difficulties faced by antitrust victims.
In the last seven years, victims  filed damages actions  in only
25 percent of competition cases where the commission found
infringements, according to the EU authority. The suits were
 mostly brought  by large companies and in countries where the
rules are seen as more favorable, such as in the U.K., the
Netherlands and Germany.  Efforts to spur damages claims have progressed slowly
through the EU’s bureaucracy. Almost 10 years went by between
a  study  on the topic called for by the commission and the rules
proposed by Almunia in June. The draft legislation is now under
consideration from EU lawmakers.  The European Consumer Organisation, BEUC, said the Deutsche
Bahn case highlights the need to create more compensation
methods. BEUC, which supports expanded private lawsuits, said
that EU statistics  indicate  that as much as 23 billion euros
($30.7 billion) in damages has gone unclaimed by victims each
year across the bloc.  Almunia’s officials at the commission last year opened a
formal probe into Deutsche Bahn’s DB Energie unit, the only
supplier of traction current in  Germany , to examine whether it
offers discounts to its parent company, possibly putting rivals
at a “competitive disadvantage.”  The Brussels-based authority is unwilling to label Deutsche
Bahn’s refund-offer compensation.  Lower Price  Almunia’s spokesman, Antoine Colombani, said the money is
designed to ease competitors into a new pricing system proposed
by Deutsche Bahn.  “The one-time refund is meant to ensure that the companies
would actually pay a lower price for a certain period,”
Colombani said. “Commitments are only meant to ensure that the
competitive process is safeguarded after they enter into force,
thereby removing any competition concerns.”  The commission is currently testing the Deutsche Bahn’s
concessions with competitors and has not signed off on them.  “The offer of commitments by DB Energie serves to end the
case in a timely manner,” Gelfo Kroeger, the spokesman for DB
Energie, said in an e-mail. “The commitments do not mean that
DB Energie recognizes the unjustified claims by the EU
commission.”  Even if the railway company’s offer is seen as a model for
future settlements, it may struggle to win the approval of
rivals.  Deutsche Bahn’s 4 percent refund offer is “a joke,”
according to Wolfgang Meyer, the president of Mofair, an
organization representing non-DB Group railway companies in
Germany. A refund of around 20 percent would be more adequate,
he said in a phone interview on Sept. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gaspard Sebag in Brussels at 
 gsebag@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  