-- Diversity in IMF Management Ranks Seen Falling Short of Targets
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-09-17T22:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/diversity-in-imf-management-ranks-seen-falling-short-of-targets.html
The International Monetary Fund is
having a hard time making its management ranks more balanced in
gender and nationality as an annual  report  showed the crisis
lender falling short of self-imposed diversity targets.  While the share of women and staff from East Asia and
Africa in management jobs increased from the year earlier in the
year ended April 30, it is still below targets set for the end
of the current fiscal year, the report released today showed.
The share of staff from the Middle East reached the fund’s
target, while emerging European economies slipped.  “The fund has become a more diverse and inclusive
organization in recent years, and further progress was made in
the past year,” according to the “Diversity and Inclusion”
report. “However, continued efforts need to be made, and not
only because it appears highly unlikely at this point that the
full set of diversity benchmarks will be attained by the target
date.”  While IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde has made
diversity at the Washington-based IMF a priority, the
institution has some catching up to do. As of the end of 2012,
women at the fund held 22 percent of management jobs, compared
with 37 percent at the World Bank and 34 percent at the Inter-American Development Bank, according to today’s report.  The IMF aims to have 25 percent to 30 percent of women in
management by the end of this fiscal year.  Nationality Targets  National diversity is another area that the IMF is
addressing.  The fiscal 2014 target for managers from  Africa  is 6
percent, which compares with a 2013 rate of 4.8 percent. East
Asian made up 5.7 percent of managers, 1.3 percentage points
under the objective. At 2.1 percent, emerging Europe is 1.9
percentage points short of the 4 percent target. Only the Middle
East’s 5.4 percent already surpassed a 5 percent goal.  “The pace of progress toward the diversity benchmarks has
been affected by changes to the fund’s workforce and budget
environment, which has changed considerably over the last 10
years,” according to the report.  Job cuts in 2008 and a weak job market after the global
financial crisis contributed to a decline in staff turnover,
making the goals harder to reach, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  