-- Dollar Trades at Almost 5-Week Low Before Fed Tapering Decision
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-09-18T16:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/dollar-near-3-week-low-versus-euro-before-fed-concludes-meeting.html
The dollar traded at almost a five-week low before the  Federal Reserve  announces whether it will
slow its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases that have capped
borrowing costs.  The U.S. currency dropped against the yen as economists
predict the central bank will cut Treasury purchases to $40
billion, while continuing to buy $40 billion of mortgage-backed
securities. The pound strengthened against all of its 16 major
counterparts after  Bank of England  minutes showed policy makers
saw no need for more stimulus.  “Much of the tapering expectation has been priced in
already,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in  New York . “A lot of
people are putting a lot of weight on what the Fed is
forecasting for the  unemployment rate  and the federal fund rate
in 2016.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against a basket of 10 major currencies, was little changed at
1,019.27 at 12:23 p.m. in New York, after falling to 1,017.30 on
Sept. 16, the lowest level since Aug. 12.  Market Prices  The dollar dropped 0.1 percent to 99.05 yen after falling
to 98.46 yen on Sept. 16, the lowest level since Sept. 2. The
U.S. currency was little changed at $1.3356 per euro after
depreciating to $1.3386 on Sept. 16, the weakest since Aug. 28.
The yen strengthened 0.1 percent to 132.27 per euro.  The Pakistan rupee fell to a record low on speculation
purchases of dollars by local banks spurred wider buying of the
greenback. The currency tumbled 0.8 percent to 105.9575 per
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is buying to cover some payments needed by banks,”
said Furqan Punjani, an economist at BMA Capital Management in
Karachi. “The rippling effect happened because there is a
shortage of U.S. currency in the country.”  The rand weakened 0.1 percent to 9.8090 per dollar after
the South African inflation rate rose to a four-year high.  Inflation in  Africa ’s biggest economy accelerated a second
month to 6.4 percent in August, meeting economists’ estimates,
from 6.3 percent in July, Pretoria-based Statistics  South Africa 
said today in a statement.  Pound Gains  The pound rose to an eight-month high versus the dollar as
Bank of England minutes showed policy makers voted unanimously
to keep policy unchanged this month.  Sterling strengthened for a fourth day versus the U.S.
currency as the minutes of the Sept. 3-4 meeting showed “no
member judged that further stimulus was appropriate at
present.” The minutes also showed the panel voted 9-0 to keep
the bond-purchase program at 375 billion pounds ($599 billion).  “There were two pound positive takeaways from the
statement,” BNP Paribas SA strategists led by global head of
foreign-exchange strategy  Steven Saywell  in  London , wrote in a
note to clients. The “BOE said recent stronger data presented
an upside risk to the growth profile described in the August
Inflation report. There was little pushback against rising U.K.
rates, as this rise had been accompanied by increasing signs of
a recovery taking hold.”  The pound gained 0.4 percent to $1.5961 after rising to
$1.5980, the highest level since Jan. 18.  Fed Purchases  Among 64 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News , 33 predict
the Fed will reduce its purchases of Treasuries by $5 billion or
less, with 31 forecasting a cut of $10 billion or more. The
central bank will announce its decision at the end of a two-meeting at 2 p.m. in  Washington .  “I anticipate that we’ll see the dollar strengthen in the
event that we get at least $10 billion worth of tapering,” said
Greg Gibbs, a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  Singapore . “If we were to get less than
$10 billion, that would certainly throw some doubt over whether
the Fed is seriously going to persist with tapering and end
their purchases, and we’ll see the dollar weaken on that.”  U.S. policy makers have pledged to keep the benchmark
 interest rate  near zero at least as long as unemployment exceeds
6.5 percent and the outlook for inflation is no more than 2.5
percent. The central bank will also release its 2016 economic
projections today, including the outlook for the benchmark rate.  “If they do go with tapering, and my gut feeling is they
will, it will be offset by a number of mitigating
observations,” said  Neil Mellor , a currency strategist at Bank
of New York Mellon in London. “The knee-jerk reaction will be
for a stronger dollar. If they then throw in cushioning language
I think the dollar might resume its downtrend again.”  Currency Pricing  The dollar has declined 0.6 percent in the past week, the
worst performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro dropped 0.2
percent and the yen gained 0.4 percent.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $14 billion, from $17 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $3.8 billion, the largest share of
trades at 28 percent. Options on the euro-dollar rate totaled
$1.5 billion.  Dollar-yen options trading was 30 percent more than the
average for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options trading was
46 percent less than average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  