-- DRW Investments Sues to Forestall CFTC Enforcement Action
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-09-17T18:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/drw-investments-sues-to-forestall-cftc-enforcement-action.html
DRW Investments LLC, a Chicago-based investment firm, filed a pre-emptive lawsuit against the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission seeking a court’s finding
that the company didn’t breach derivatives trading regulations.  DRW Investments and its principal, Donald R. Wilson, sued
the CFTC today in federal court in  Chicago , saying its case is a
response to the agency’s “stated intention to bring an
enforcement action.”  “The CFTC’s action would depend on an erroneous and
legally untenable claim,” that DRW violated anti-manipulation
provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act by placing orders at
prices differing from those of similar, though not identical,
over-the-counter swaps, DRW said in a statement.  At issue are interest-rate swap futures contracts traded on
the  Nasdaq OMX (NDAQ)  Futures Exchange and cleared through the
International Derivatives Clearinghouse from August 2010 through
September 2011.  Wilson and the company, a unit of DRW Holdings LLC, alleged
that when the trades were carried out, no regulation or rule
made them illegal and an attempt by the agency to do so now
would violate their constitutional right to fair notice of what
activities would be considered market manipulation.  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on
DRW’s lawsuit.  The case is DRW Investments LLC v. U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, 13-cv-06630, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  