-- Dutch Plan State-Backed Mortgage Bonds to Aid Banks
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-09-17T16:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/dutch-plan-state-backed-mortgage-bonds-to-aid-funding-for-banks.html
The Dutch government agreed with
pension funds and banks to set up an institution that will sell
mortgage bonds backed by the country’s top credit rating, a bid
to reduce financing costs for lenders and consumers.  To ensure liquidity in the securities, which will be
modeled on government bonds and have differing maturities, the
vehicle should aim to issue at least 50 billion euros ($67
billion) of mortgage debt in five years, according to  documents 
prepared by a committee advising the Dutch government. Lenders
will transfer low-risk loans through securitizations, while
retaining default risks to avoid “moral hazard,” it said.  The mortgage institution could bring Dutch rates more in
line with those in other countries, according to the committee’s
head, pension executive  Tjerk Kroes . The Netherlands named Kroes
to lead the committee as it seeks to boost an economy hurt by a
housing collapse. The plan requires approval by the European
Union, which regulates state aid to the financial industry.  “The National Mortgage Institution -- if set up adequately
taking into account risks for the government -- can prove to be
an important link in the recovery of the housing market and
potentially contribute even to the return of confidence,” said
Kroes, the director of corporate strategy and policy at APG
Groep NV,  Europe ’s largest pension fund asset manager.  Mortgage Debt  Dutch borrowers pay 1 percentage point more in interest
than the European Union average, the government has said, partly
because the nation’s banks rely on capital-market funding to
fill a gap of about 450 billion euros between deposits and
loans. The shortfall is inflated by the nation’s  mortgage debt ,
among the highest in the world at 108 percent of Dutch gross
domestic product.  “While this will support funding costs of weaker banks,
Dutch covered bond supply by large banks is low and bonds are
very well bid,” said Bernd Volk, head of European covered bond
and agency research at Deutsche Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “It
remains to be seen if this will actually increase new lending.”  Banks are unable to match their loan book to  local savings ,
which are predominantly held in the country’s pension funds.
Those funds invest more than 85 percent of their 960 billion
euros in assets outside the Netherlands. High loan-to-value
ratios and limited competition among mortgage providers have
also pushed up costs for borrowers.  Cheaper Funding  The state vehicle, which will only cover low-risk
mortgages, will get funding at borrowing costs similar to those
of the Dutch state plus a liquidity surcharge, cheaper than home
lenders can get on their own, Kroes said. That may allow new
Dutch and foreign mortgage providers to enter the market.  The borrowing rates for Dutch  government bonds  are among
the lowest in the euro area, with 30-year securities currently
yielding about 2.90 percent and 10-year bonds 2.30 percent.  The committee said cheaper funding could cut the difference
between rates on government bonds and mortgages by about 20
basis points, or 0.2 percentage point, within years. Additional
benefits, such as the entry of new mortgage providers, may
trigger another decrease of as much as 30 basis points,
according to the report.  EU Aid  “The risks for the state can’t materially increase,”
Dutch Economy Minister Henk Kamp said in a  letter  to parliament
today. “The government will consider if and how the National
Mortgage Institution can be structured so that it meets European
state aid aspects and other preconditions.”  To avoid increased risks for the state, the institute will
only accept mortgages covered by a Dutch Homeownership
Guarantee, or NHG. The 787 million-euro fund, which is
ultimately backed by the Dutch government, compensates lenders
in case borrowers are forced to sell their home at a price
that’s below the value of their loan. The fund covers mortgages
of as much as 290,000 euros, with this guaranteed amount reduced
to 265,000 euros from July.  Housing prices have dropped by 20 percent since peaking in
2008, and may not start to recover before 2015, the Dutch
central bank has said. Kroes advised the government to commit to
reducing the share of mortgages covered by NHG when the housing
market has recovered.  To further limit risks for the state, and to avoid
consolidating the National Mortgage Institution in the
government’s budget, it must build up equity through premiums
paid by mortgage providers, and possibly by capital from
institutional investors, Kroes said. The vehicle’s risks should
be capped and monitored by a regulator, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  