-- Dutch Need Structural Reforms to Restore Growth, Government Says
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-09-17T14:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/dutch-need-structural-reforms-to-restore-growth-government-says.html
Dutch economic growth will remain
subdued for the coming years and budget cuts and structural
reforms are needed to keep the deficit from getting out of
control, the government said.  “The Netherlands faces challenges, requiring a structural
way to deal with it,” Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem
wrote in his 2014 budget plan published today. “On the one
hand, the Netherlands is still suffering from the consequences
of the banking crisis and the euro crisis, on the other hand,
our financial situation has structural imbalances that need to
be dealt with.”  The Netherlands is in its third recession since the
financial crisis started in 2008 and has been in breach of the
European Union’s deficit limit of 3 percent of  gross domestic
product  since then. Next year’s budget shortfall will hit 3.3
percent of GDP, even after the government introduced an
additional austerity package of 6 billion euros ($8 billion),
the  government’s planning agency CPB said Sept. 15. For 2013,
it sees a deficit of 3.2 percent of GDP.  “The government wants to strengthen the Dutch economy’s
ability to grow -- this will lay the foundation for  job creation 
and the return of confidence to people and companies,” King
Willem-Alexander said today in an address before the budget was
presented in  The Hague . “The necessary reforms will cost time
and ask for stamina.”  Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s plan for additional cost cuts
and tax increases comes on top of a four-year, 16 billion-euro
package the coalition of the Liberal and Labor parties approved
in November last year when they took office. Of this amount, 3.5
billion euros were already penciled in for 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  