-- The Case Against Cursive
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-17T20:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/the-case-against-cursive.html
Like  32-volume encyclopedias  or
cassette tapes, cursive writing has become a casualty of
technology. Why learn how to draw that  funny-looking crooked
triple loop  when you can just tap the shift key and the letter Z
on your mobile phone? Better yet, why bother with uppercase
letters at all? they’re not necessary for understanding.  Yet misgivings over the eclipse of cursive-writing
instruction are provoking a backlash, with some state
legislators overriding decisions to drop the lessons. Most
American adults were taught that print writing was a step to
cursive, the mark of true literacy. So it’s fair to ask: Will
students deprived of this skill be lacking something essential?  In a word: no. Literacy, it’s worth remembering, is an
evolving concept. For three centuries -- until pocket
calculators became common in the mid-1970s -- students had to
master the  slide rule  to quickly solve  complex math problems ,
such as determining a number’s square root. Today, most kids
probably couldn’t click on a slide rule even if it were right on
the screen in front of them.  School districts that have stopped teaching cursive
understand that people will increasingly “write” with
keyboards; they don’t require a second, fancier form of
handwriting. For these reasons, the  Common Core State Standards
Initiative  sponsored by the  National Governors Association 
excluded cursive from its recommended curriculum, which has been
adopted by 45 states. The standards require students to
demonstrate proficiency in  using a keyboard  to type at least a
page in a single sitting by the fourth grade.  Legislatures in  California ,  Louisiana ,  North Carolina ,
 Oklahoma ,  Texas  and  West Virginia   have responded  by mandating
cursive teaching. Similar bills have been introduced in five
other states this year. This counteraction is the product of an
understandable but unhelpful attachment to tradition.  The blowback is also a result of flawed reasoning. There’s
an argument that new generations must master cursive in order to
read their forebears’ cursive documents. Yet students who can
read print can be  taught to read cursive  in as little as an hour
without spending the months of practice necessary to master
formation of the loopy, connected letters of cursive.  There’s also an argument that cursive writing bestows
benefits to the brain. This is  far from established science .
Some of the cited research actually deals with  any writing  by
hand, including printing, while some is simply  insubstantial .
Even if it were clear that cursive writing somehow stimulates
the brain, that’s not a reason to teach it. Plenty of activities
arouse the brain -- meditation, learning to use a slide rule,
playing Sudoku.  The issue is how students spend their limited time in
school. In districts where cursive has been dropped, its former
teachers have been among the most enthusiastic, because the
change liberates them to teach more valuable subjects.  Noting that students who wrote their SAT essays in cursive
score slightly higher than those who printed them, proponents of
cursive instruction conclude that the cursive writers wrote more
quickly and efficiently and could thus focus better on the
substance of their writing. Perhaps. In this digital age,
however, the better question is why anyone is still writing SAT
essays out longhand.  That’s the view to the future that state legislators should
keep in mind as they consider the case of cursive instruction.
Students have more important things to learn, which they no
doubt would be happy to describe in an e-mail.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 