-- EADS Should Distribute Dassault Aviation Stake, TCI Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-09-17T10:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/eads-should-distribute-dassault-aviation-stake-tci-says.html
European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. (EAD)  was urged by the Children’s Investment Fund to
distribute its stake in  Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  to shareholders as
the hedge fund increases pressure to boost returns.  EADS Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  should distribute
the 46 percent stake in the French maker of fighter-jet and
corporate business planes in the form of a  dividend  rather than
having to sell at an “unattractive price,” according to a
letter the London-based fund, known as TCI, sent to the
Toulouse, France-based manufacturer.  TCI’s proposal comes as EADS, the parent of commercial-aircraft manufacturer Airbus SAS, considers the future of the
Dassault Aviation holding, which it received from the French
government. The Dassault family controls the Paris-based company
with 51 percent of the stock, and less than 4 percent is
publicly traded.  “Once the distribution is completed, analyst coverage of
the company would increase and the higher liquidity of the
shares would make them more investible,” said TCI, which met
with EADS Chief Financial Officer Harald Wilhelm on Sept. 11.  “Central to our strategy is efficient capital allocation
and the creation of  shareholder value ,”  Rainer Ohler , an EADS
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We are keeping our shareholders
fully appraised of our plans and progress, but we don’t comment
in public on individual shareholder proposals.”  Rafale Fighters  Dassault Aviation draws 70 percent of annual revenue from
corporate-jet sales, and the rest from Rafale fighter planes.
TCI first contacted EADS in August, saying the stake was a poor
investment.  Dassault Aviation CEO Eric Trappier said Aug. 29 that he
had has held talks with EADS about the stake, telling Enders
that his company was  “neutral” about EADS’s future plans,
given that the Dassault family owns the majority.  The Airbus parent has been a stakeholder in Dassault since
EADS’s creation in 2000 after  France  gave the stake to a
predecessor company, Aerospatiale SA. Enders has said he would
reconsider the future of all assets that EADS doesn’t directly
control. The French government has a right of first refusal in
the event that EADS decides to sell its stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  