-- Eiji Toyoda, Creator of Toyota Export Giant, Dies at 100
-- B y   K a e   I n o u e ,   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-09-17T08:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/eiji-toyoda-who-turned-toyota-into-export-giant-dies-at-100.html
Eiji Toyoda, who spearheaded  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) ’s expansion in the U.S. as the automaker’s longest-serving president, has died. He was 100.  He died today at Toyota Memorial Hospital in Toyota City, 
Japan, the company said in a statement. The cause was heart 
failure.  During his 57-year career, the younger cousin of Toyota
Motor’s founder helped reshape a maker of  Chevrolet  knockoffs
into an automaker whose manufacturing efficiency became the envy
of  General Motors Corp. (GM)  and Ford Motor Co. By the time he
stepped down in 1994, the company was assembling Corollas in the
U.S., had started the Lexus luxury brand and had initiated a
project that would develop the world’s most successful gas-electric vehicle, the Prius.  “He played an important role in leading Toyota’s
expansion into North America, and in developing the carmaker
into a global company,”  Japan ’s Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yoshihide Suga, said at a press conference in Tokyo. “He was
someone who was indispensable to the nation’s entire industry.”  Toyoda was a cousin of Kiichiro Toyoda, the founder of the
company that bears a slightly altered version of the family’s
name. He was one of six presidents to come from the family.  Toyota fell 0.6 percent to 6,240 yen at the close in Tokyo
trading, while the Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 0.7 percent.  Mass Production  During the 69 years he worked at the  company , based in
central Japan’s Toyota City, it rose from assembling its cars
out of parts made by GM to being 16 times more valuable than the
Detroit-based automaker. Toyoda pushed his company to learn from
Ford and GM about mass production of automobiles.  Toyoda became president of Toyota Motor Co. in 1967 and
served for 15 years -- longer than anyone before or since. In
1982, Toyota Motor and Toyota Motor Sales Co. merged to form
Toyota Motor Corp. Toyoda became chairman of the combined
company, serving until 1992. He was made honorary chairman of
the company upon retirement and kept the title of honorary
adviser.  Selling Corollas  Under his stewardship, the carmaker set up at least 10 new
factories, began exporting to dozens of countries, established
just-in-time production and built a reputation for manufacturing
excellence. The Corolla became the best-selling car of all time.
He stressed the importance of manufacturing concepts that became
central to Toyota’s production methods, such as “kaizen,” or
continuous improvement, and “jidoka,” or the use of machines
that shut down when irregularities are detected.  His greatest achievement may have been laying the
foundation for the company to apply its manufacturing expertise
overseas, which led to the formation of Toyota’s first venture
in the U.S. in 1983 -- a year after he passed the presidency to
his cousin, Shoichiro.  That venture, New United Motor Manufacturing Inc., in
partnership with GM, began production in 1984 in Fremont,
 California . Its success showed that Toyota’s manufacturing
principles could be applied across different cultures, giving
the company the confidence to make its own independent plants in
 Kentucky ,  Canada ,  England  and  France , according to Toyoda.  Challenging BMW  He also  oversaw  Toyota’s development of  Lexus , approving
development of the luxury car in 1983 to compete with Mercedes-Benz and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s BMW. The first vehicle,
the LS 400, went on sale in the U.S. in 1989.  After stepping down from all executive roles, Toyoda
continued to come into the office to consult with his
successors, and took on roles such as chairing the company’s
commemorative museum, according to spokesman Naoto Fuse, who was
formerly director of the museum.  The U.S. Automotive Hall of Fame inducted Toyoda in 1994,
making him the second honoree from Japan, after Soichiro Honda.  “As a member of the automobile industry, this is indeed a
great moment for me,” he said in a statement upon his
induction. “Ever since Toyota’s establishment in 1937, I have
been involved in this wonderful business, and as long as my
engine keeps running, I intend to give back as much as I can for
the industry’s further development.”  Textile Mill  Toyoda was born on Sept. 12, 1913, near Nagoya, the second
son of Heikichi and Nao. He grew up in Nagoya inside his
father’s textile mill, schooled from an early age in machines
and business, according to his autobiography, “Toyota: Fifty
Years in Motion.”  He graduated from the University of  Tokyo  with a degree in
mechanical engineering in 1936 and joined Toyoda Automatic Loom
Works Ltd., working for his uncle, Sakichi Toyoda, inventor of a
weaving loom that automatically shut itself off when a piece of
fabric broke.  At the time, Sakichi’s son, Kiichiro, was heading an
automobile division of Toyoda Automatic Loom Works. In 1937,
Kiichiro founded Toyota Motor and took his younger cousin with
him.  Toyoda, then in his 20s, started on the factory floor
before being promoted to production planning and director. From
the outset, he was given broad freedom to pursue interests
ranging from fixing cars to helping establish the company
headquarters in Toyota City. He became a  director  in 1945.  War Interruption  Toyota and Ford held discussions on jointly making cars in
the U.S., until the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941 and
the Pacific War interrupted contacts. Talks resumed after World
War II but did not lead anywhere.  In 1950, during its occupation of Japan, the U.S. Army sent
Toyoda to Dearborn,  Michigan , to learn about mass production
from Ford. The U.S. needed Toyota to build trucks for its troops
in  Korea .  Toyoda concluded that Ford was barely ahead of the much-smaller Toyota in terms of technology. Back in Japan, he
concentrated on making cars in small batches at maximum
efficiency. He began using IBM machines to cut production costs,
according to Kazuo Wada, professor of economics at the
University of Tokyo and author of “A Fable on Manufacturing:
Ford to Toyota.”  Building on the work of his cousin, Toyoda developed what
became known as the Toyota Production System, which aimed to
eliminate excess inventory of parts and other waste. The
manufacturing system became so successful it was eventually
adopted by other carmakers, and by manufacturers outside the
automotive industry.  He had three sons and a daughter with his wife, Kazuko. He
is survived by his eldest son, Kanshiro, according to Toyota’s
statement.  Funeral services will be held for close family members 
only, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kae Inoue in Tokyo at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  