-- Electronic Arts Names Sports Games Chief Wilson as CEO
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-09-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/electronic-arts-names-sports-games-chief-wilson-as-ceo.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  named  Andrew Wilson , the head of its sports games and a leader in the
emerging digital businesses, as chief executive officer, passing
over two more senior officials.  Wilson, 39, succeeds John Riccitiello, who left in March
amid disappointing results. His appointment was announced
yesterday on the company’s website by interim CEO Larry Probst,
who will remain executive chairman.  Electronic Arts is turning to a manager who successfully
made the transition to online games with some of the company’s
most important franchises, like “FIFA” soccer, a strategy that
Wilson said won’t change. He vaults past two superiors,  Peter Moore  and Frank Gibeau, who are more closely identified with the
stumbles under Riccitiello.  “You might see some of what remains of EA’s management go
as part of a shakeup, but that might not be the worst thing in
the world,” said  Michael Olson , a Piper Jaffray Cos. analyst in
 Minneapolis  who recommends the stock.  Before his most recent position overseeing EA Sports and
the company’s online gaming portal Origin, Wilson worked in the
Asia online publishing group and development studio in  Seoul .
He’s been with the company since May 2000.  ‘Deep Bench’  “Andrew’s appointment is a clear demonstration of the deep
bench of management talent at EA,” Probst wrote in a letter to
employees of  Redwood City , California-based Electronic Arts, the
second-largest U.S. game publisher.  Electronic Arts was little changed in extended trading
yesterday after the announcement. The  stock  rose 2.4 percent to
$27.60 at the close in  New York  and has almost doubled this
year.  Wilson’s appointment comes as the industry prepares for the
introduction of a new generation of consoles, with Sony Corp.
and Microsoft Corp. planning to release new players this year.
U.S. sales of video games and related products rose 1 percent
last month to $521 million, the first gain in almost two years,
according to researcher NPD Group Inc.  The months-long search for the new CEO was complicated
after another potential candidate, Don Mattrick, left Microsoft
Corp. to take the top job at  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , said  Michael Pachter ,
an analyst at Wedbush Securities in  Los Angeles  who also
recommends the shares.  “Andrew’s a capable guy, but I don’t know why a
subordinate leapfrogged the others,” Pachter said. “In order
for him to succeed, we’re going to have to see that he’s tough,
that he holds people accountable.”  Annual Salary  The company said it considered “several talented
executives from outside the company and from within EA.” John Reseburg, a spokesman, declined further comment.  Wilson, who will receive a base salary of $800,000, also
gains a seat on the company’s board, effective yesterday,
Electronic Arts said in a  filing .  The new CEO signaled there would be little immediate change
within the company.  “EA’s strategy is sound,” Wilson wrote to employees.
“Our focus on our talent, our brands and our platform, together
with our investment in next-generation consoles, mobile and PC
free-to-play, as part of our ongoing transition to digital, is
right.”  As head of the business that generated much of Electronic
Arts’ $3.8 billion in fiscal 2013 revenue, Wilson has overseen
some of the biggest hits and some disappointments. He was named
executive vice president of EA Sports in August 2011, according
to the  filing .  ‘FIFA 13’  The most recent “FIFA 13” soccer game rose to 17 percent
of total sales in the latest year, from 13 percent in the
previous 12 months, according to the 2013 10K report. The latest
“Madden NFL” football title sold fewer units initially than
its predecessor, according to Olson. The company canceled “NBA
Live 13” and elected not to renew an agreement for college
basketball games.  “The various sports franchises have done well in recent
years, especially with the incorporation of digital and
subscription components,” Olson said. “That’s the direction
the company wants to take with multiple franchises, and he’s got
experience doing it.”  Electronic Arts is in the middle of a transition from a
maker of console games sold mostly at retail stores to one that
plans to generate the bulk of its revenue from digital downloads
within the next five years. Online sales in its fiscal first
quarter rose 17 percent to $378 million.  In May, Electronic Arts announced a multiyear agreement
with Walt Disney Co. to create games for game consoles,
computers and mobile devices based on “Star Wars” characters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  