-- Mediobanca Devalues Telecom Italia Holding as Exit Looms
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-09-18T08:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/telecom-italia-investor-mediobanca-writes-down-holding-by-56-.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  investor
 Mediobanca SpA (MB)  cut the value of its holding by more than half in
the carrier that is struggling to meet its debt-reduction target
and facing a downgrade to junk.  Mediobanca, the investment bank with a 2.6 percent indirect
stake through Telco SpA, wrote down its Telco  holding  to 53 euro
cents a share from 1.2 euros, taking the losses for the year
ended June 30 to 320 million euros ($427 million), it said
yesterday. Unlike previous writedowns, Mediobanca did it
unilaterally without agreeing with other Telco owners:  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  and  Telefonica SA. (TEF)   The decision paves the way for the unraveling of a six-year
pact that put a 22.4 percent blocking minority of Telecom Italia
in the hands of the financial investors and Madrid-based
Telefonica. They have the right this month to revoke the accord
and Telefonica has been seeking to gradually boost its holding,
although the stakeholders haven’t been able to agree on a price,
a person familiar with the matter has said.  “We are rather seller of our exposure than we are ready to
put additional money in Telecom Italia,” Mediobanca Chief
Executive Officer Alberto Nagel said yesterday on a conference
call. “Generali should leave Telco because exiting the pact
would be more coherent with the company’s strategy,” he said,
adding he hadn’t received any communication from the insurer.  More Attractive?  Telco’s Italian investors are at the same time discussing a
sale of their shares to other potential buyers, another person
with knowledge of the matter said, asking not to be named
because the discussions are confidential.  Intesa, Generali and Mediobanca were approached by several
parties, said that person, declining to identify the suitors. If
an agreement isn’t reached with Telefonica, the Italian partners
will consider selling the stakes after exiting the Telco
agreement, the person said.  “Mediobanca’s writedowns make Telecom Italia even more
attractive for potential international investors who would buy a
strategic asset in a strategic country like  Italy ,” said
Massimiliano Trovato, a media and telecommunications analyst at
Bruno Leoni Institute.  Net Debt  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe is
racing against time to look for cash to pare more than $38
billion in net debt. Talks in the past year to sell a stake to
Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing  and  Egypt ’s Naguib Sawiris
have failed, and while Sawiris is still interested in investing
in the carrier, he said this month that he’s been put off by
Italian newspaper reports that the government prefers Telefonica
as Telecom Italia’s owner.  Telecom Italia rose 0.6 percent to 60 cents at 10:25 a.m.
in Milan trading. The stock is down 12 percent this year,
heading for its a ninth consecutive yearly decline. It has
slumped more than 70 percent since Telefonica and the financial
investors agreed to pay 4.1 billion euros in 2007 for an 18
percent stake.  Telefonica owns almost half of Telco, giving it an indirect
stake of just more than 10 percent in Telecom Italia and making
it the single biggest investor. Also strategic for Telefonica is
Telecom Italia’s Brazilian business,  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  with a
market value of $10.7 billion and a rival of Telefonica’s local
unit.  Brazilian Business  In a statement yesterday, Tim said it had requested
information about any potential implications of a change in
Telecom Italia’s ownership, and was told that its parent “does
not have any information concerning such rumors.”  Telecom Italia is considered the lowest investment grade by
the three major ratings companies and is on review for cuts at
all of them. The carrier needs a capital increase of at least 3
billion euros to avoid a cut to junk, Andrea Giuricin, an
analyst at Milan Bicocca University, predicted this month.  Telecom Italia is among European carriers hurt most by the
region’s debt crisis. While Newbury, England-based  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  has businesses in  India  and  Africa  to offset revenue
declines in southern Europe and Telefonica operates in the U.K.
and  Germany , Telecom Italia relies on its home market for almost
60 percent of its sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  