-- Emerging Europe Bank Funding Improves on Euro Area, Capital Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-09-17T11:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/emerging-europe-bank-funding-improves-on-euro-area-capital-says.html
Eastern European bank funding has
improved as financial-market tension in the euro area abated and
western lenders with units in the region shifted to local
financing, according to Capital Economics Ltd.  Banks in the Czech Republic, Slovakia and  Poland  are the
most stable, William Jackson, an economist at London-based
Capital wrote in an e-mailed report. Lenders in Bulgaria,
Romania and  Hungary  remain “extremely fragile” because of non-performing loans, while a lending boom has increased external
funding needs in  Turkey , he said.  “The good news is that external risks appear to be
easing,” Jackson said. “Banks in central Europe look fairly
healthy, but those in southeast Europe remain fragile. And
Turkish banks are now more vulnerable to a shock than in 2008.”  Emerging Europe was hit hardest when the global financial
crisis that followed Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse
prompted western lenders such as  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI) , which control three-quarters of the
region’s banking industry, to cut lending and financing. They
kept reducing exposure as tighter capital rules were introduced.  Emerging Europe is the only developing region where
private-sector credit has fallen as a share of gross domestic
product since 2008, according to Jackson. While external funding
remains high, it’s fallen after financial-market liquidity
improved in the euro region, he said.  Banks’ efforts to become less reliant on foreign financing
have improved their funding positions, with loan-to-deposit
ratios falling, Jackson wrote. Even so, ratios exceed 100
percent in every country in the region except the Czech Republic
and Slovakia, leaving them vulnerable, he said.  Non-performing loans remain high, partly because weaker
local currencies have made foreign-currency loans more difficult
to repay, according to Jackson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  