-- Most Emerging-Market Stocks Advance as Ibovespa Rallies
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-09-17T21:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/emerging-stocks-fall-most-in-two-weeks-on-china.html
Most emerging-market stocks rose as
homebuilders pushed  Brazil ’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  to a 16-week high. Samsung
Electronics Co. led declines among technology shares.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.1 percent to
1,002.44 as 411 stocks gained, while 341 retreated. Brazil’s
Ibovespa rose for a third day and  Turkey ’s benchmark equity
index rallied to a one-month high. Samsung, the world’s biggest
smartphone maker, retreated 2.7 percent after BNP Paribas said
the outlook for the consumer electronics business may worsen.
The Shanghai Composite Index slumped 2.1 percent after data on
 China ’s foreign investment trailed economists’ estimates.  The MSCI measure for developing-nation stocks swung between
gains and losses today, after rallying to a three-month high
yesterday, as Federal Reserve policy makers gathered. The
Federal Open Market Committee meets today and tomorrow, when
members are forecast to cut monthly bond buying by $10 billion
to $75 billion, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  “No one is going to want to commit a huge amount of money
to the market before seeing the results of the Fed meeting
tomorrow,” Paul Zemsky, the New York-based head of asset
allocation at ING Investment Management which oversees $180
billion, said in a phone interview.  Seven out of 10 groups in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
rose today as utility and phone companies had the biggest gains.
The broad measure has dropped 5 percent so far this year to
trade at 10.6 times projected earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That trails the  valuation  of 14 for the
MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the developing-nation ETF, fell 0.2 percent to $41.53. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility
Index, a gauge of options prices on the fund and expectations of
price swings, slipped 0.4 percent to 24.26.  The Ibovespa rose 0.8 percent as Rossi Residencial SA paced
a rally in homebuilders after traders pared bets on Brazilian
interest-rate increases. The real climbed for the first time in
three days as the central bank rolled over foreign-exchange swap
contracts worth $1.97 billion to support the currency in an
effort to curb inflation.  The Micex Index rose to the highest in six months in Moscow
as OAO RusHydro,  Russia ’s biggest renewable energy producer,
jumped 2.7 percent. The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index
extended this month’s rally to 13 percent, while  Poland ’s WIG20
Index snapped a two-day decline.  China, India  The Shanghai Composite Index fell the most since July 8 as
Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Co. and  Poly Real Estate Group
Co. (600048)  led declines for lenders and developers. Shanghai
International Port (Group) Co. dropped 10 percent after UBS AG
downgraded the stock to sell.  Samsung sank the most in two months, extending this year’s
decline to 8.9 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index fell 0.4
percent, dropping for the second time in three days.  Indian equities advanced, led by software exporters and
consumer companies.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , the nation’s
top software services company, gained the most in two weeks. The
rupee slid 0.8 percent, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 331 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  