-- England Rugby World Cup to Bring Record Profit, IRB Head Says
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2013-09-17T12:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/england-rugby-world-cup-to-bring-record-profit-irb-head-says.html
The 2015 Rugby World Cup in England
will probably make about 150 million pounds ($239 million), a 60
percent increase from the 2011 competition in New Zealand, the
head of the sport’s global governing body said.  England won the right in 2009 to host the tournament for a
second time as the International Rugby Board moved to shore up
its finances to spread the game into new countries.  Japan  will
hold the tournament in 2019, becoming the first Asian host.  The 2015 World Cup may be the rugby’s most profitable ever,
surpassing the 122.4 million-pound surplus from the 2007 event
in  France . IRB President Brett Gosper said the event would
benefit from being held in the heart of European rugby, allowing
easy access to supporters and advertisers from many countries.  “When you stage the World Cup in a major industrial
country, the ability for sponsors to exploit a place like the
U.K. versus New Zealand, you get a bit of step up,” Gosper said
in an interview, adding “we could do much better” than his 150
million-pound estimate. This surplus for the IRB comes from
broadcasting and other revenue, while the tournament host’s
income is from ticket sales.  The 2011 tournament, which culminated in a victory for the
All Blacks, attracted about 133,000 visitors from more than 100
countries to New Zealand and a cumulative global television
audience of 3.9 billion, organizers said.  A December 2012 report by the New Zealand government found
the event boosted the local economy by NZ$1.7 billion ($1.4
billion).  The Dublin-based  IRB  earns about 95 percent of its income
from the World Cup, and chose  England  as host because it
anticipated lower profit from the New Zealand event. Some games
will be held at the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff, Wales.  Du Plessis Decision  The IRB, which also makes laws for the game, said this week
that French referee Romain Poite had improperly penalized South
Africa’s Bismarck du Plessis for a tackle on Dan Carter of New
Zealand.  Poite showed Du Plessis a yellow card for the tackle in the
17th minute of South Africa’s 29-15 Rugby Championship loss to
New Zealand in Auckland on Sept. 14. Though a subsequent yellow
card in the second half led to the hooker’s ejection from the
game, the red card was subsequently struck off his disciplinary
record.  The call by Poite was “unfortunate,” though it may not
directly impact on his chances of being appointed to future big
games, Gosper said.  “All games are reviewed and as a consequence of those
reviews, allocations of games are decided,” Gosper said.
“There is a pecking order of referees. When it’s as high
profile as that, it probably never particularly helps, but he is
a very good referee.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  