-- EPA Restarts Stalled Drive to Improve Water Protection
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-09-17T20:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/epa-restarts-stalled-drive-to-improve-water-protection.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
restarted efforts to expand and clarify federal oversight of
streams and waterways, after a previous drive provoked a
backlash from representatives of farmers and home builders.  The agency and the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers today
submitted a proposal to the White House that would establish new
regulations under the  Clean Water Act , and show how it applies
to smaller streams and flood plains. The agencies say their
proposed rules are aimed at sorting out the muddying effects of
inconsistent legal decisions in recent years.  “The proposed joint rule will provide greater consistency,
certainty, and predictability nationwide,” Nancy Stoner, the
acting head of the agency’s water office, said in a blog post
today. “These improvements are necessary to reduce costs and
minimize delays in the permit process and protect waters that
are vital to public health, the environment and economy.”  For decades, government officials and businesses have
disputed the meaning of one phrase -- the “waters of the  United
States ” -- in the 1972 anti-pollution law. Along with its
proposal submitted today, the EPA published a scientific review
that may lead to a broad definition linking even small streams
that only reach large national water bodies such as the
Chesapeake Bay after heavy rains.  In 2011, the agency proposed guidance for other federal
agencies on how to interpret the law, a recommendation that was
criticized by Republicans in Congress and the  American Farm
Bureau Federation  as stealth rulemaking attempt. The proposal
hasn’t been implemented, and the agency now plans to withdraw it
and proceed with the latest effort instead.  “We look forward to the agency’s long overdue rule
clarifying their protection,” Tiernan Sittenfeld, senior vice
president of the  League of Conservation Voters , said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  