-- Tepco Drains 1,130 Tons of Rainwater at Fukushima After Typhoon
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-09-17T04:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/tepco-drains-1-130-tons-of-rainwater-at-fukushima-after-typhoon.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  revised
down the amount of rainwater it drained into the soil and
Pacific Ocean at the wrecked Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant after a typhoon lashed the area.  The utility siphoned off about 1,130 tons of rainwater from
behind concrete barriers in front of seven areas with  storage
tanks  holding radioactive water, it said in a statement. That’s
100 tons less than earlier estimated. Radiation levels were
within the safety standard of 30 becquerels a liter, spokesman
Masayuki Ono said at a briefing today.  The rainwater accumulated in the barriers as a result of
Typhoon Man-Yi passing over the site. The plant escaped any
major damage from the typhoon, Ono said.  Levels of radiation in the drained water ranged from 3
becquerels per liter to 24 becquerels per liter, the Tokyo-based
utility said in a statement today.  Hundreds of thousands of people were advised or ordered to
evacuate in  Japan  as  Typhoon Man-Yi  brought flooding, power
blackouts and flight cancellations to the western and central
parts of the country.　  At least one person died, while three were missing and 96
reported injured in 19 prefectures, public broadcaster NHK said
yesterday. A landslide in Ritto city, 350 kilometers (217 miles)
west of Tokyo, killed a 71-year-old woman, it said.  Japan is regularly hit by typhoons during the summer
months. In 2004, Typhoon Tokage left 95 people dead.  Man-Yi is originally the name of a strait, according to the
 Hong Kong Observatory , which lists names assigned to storms in
the northwest Pacific.　  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in  Tokyo  at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  