-- Leprosy Return Shows Neglect in India of Ancient Blight
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-09-17T18:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/leprosy-return-shows-neglect-in-india-of-ancient-blight.html
Sandeep Gupta fidgets nervously in
a Mumbai clinic while waiting to learn if the white patches and
boils that appeared on his elbow a month ago are signs of
leprosy -- the disease that disfigured his cousin and maimed
millions of people in  India  and elsewhere for 8,000 years.  The lesions on the 12-year-old’s arm are a sign of leprosy
which, left untreated, can cause disfigurement and nerve damage.
While leprosy, described in  Indian texts  from the 6th century
BC, has been cleared from the developed world, it’s regaining
ground in India, which has become the biggest source of cases
 imported  into the U.K. and  Australia .  Sandeep’s doctor, Vivek V. Pai, who runs the  Bombay Leprosy
Project  and has treated patients for 26 years, blames
overcrowding, poverty and neglect for keeping the disease
entrenched in Mumbai slums. Its persistence is a reminder that
even as the world’s largest democracy prepares to send a rocket
to Mars this year, its economic success is leaving many behind.  “There are pockets in Mumbai where prevalence is still
high,” Pai said in an interview from his clinic on the
outskirts of India’s most populous city. “The government says
the disease is eliminated, but in these areas things haven’t
changed.”  Biblical Scourge  Leprosy, also known as Hansen’s disease after  G.A. Hansen ,
the Norwegian scientist who discovered its microbial cause 140
years ago, is  mentioned  at least 50 times in the Bible. In the
Middle Ages, those afflicted by the disease were forced to wear
special clothes and  ring bells  to alert others as they passed.  New cases have increased the past two years in India in
tandem with an uptick in relapses in previously treated
patients, according to World Health Organization data released
last month. India’s 850 self-settled communities of sufferers --
some located in the shadows of technology parks and gleaming
towers -- reflect the stigma attached to the disease and of the
social and economic isolation it causes.  “Even today, there are people affected by leprosy who
still live in leprosy colonies because they have no other
option,” said Yohei Sasakawa, chairman of the Tokyo-based aid
group Nippon Foundation, who has worked for the elimination of
leprosy for more than 40 years.  Nerve Damage  Nationally, India’s leprosy prevalence  dropped  below 1 case
for every 10,000 people in 2005, allowing the country to claim
elimination. The disease, which causes chronic skin sores,  nerve
damage  and muscle weakness, is usually spread through close
contact with untreated cases via bacteria-laden respiratory
secretions, or through contaminated soil.  This year, 36 districts reported a  prevalence  of more than
2 cases per 10,000 people, nine more districts than last year.
The  worst-affected  was Tapi, in the western state of Gujarat,
where there were 6.55 cases per 10,000 people in March, compared
with 4.03/10,000 last year.  “I tell politicians, if you want to demonstrate India’s
progress, you can’t afford to have a disease like leprosy,”
said S.K. Noordeen, who led the WHO’s global leprosy elimination
program from 1984 to 1999 and now advises the Indian government
on the disease. “And if you let this go on for a long time, you
may see some future problems like  drug resistance  -- a much more
difficult situation.”  Curled Fingers  The infection has an incubation period of about five years
and symptoms can take as long as  20 years  to appear.  Lining up with Sandeep in Pai’s Mumbai clinic one morning
in August were dozens of adults with open sores, curled or
missing fingers and bulbous growths on their faces. Sandeep’s
skin condition is suspicious of leprosy and Pai said he wants to
see the boy again in two months to check if it’s worsened. If it
has, Pai will take a swab and have it tested for the bacterium.  Sajir Shaikh traveled 2.5 hours by bus to Mumbai from a
small town to have Pai examine the pink nodules that have
appeared all over his arms, legs and back. Shaikh, 25, was
treated for leprosy three years ago.  Now, he’s having trouble opening his thickened, swollen
eyelids and raising his head, he says, causing him to believe
the disease has reappeared. His older brother and two nephews
have also been infected and treated for the bacterium.  Resistance Risk  Last year, 697 new  leprosy cases  in India were reported
among patients previously treated for the disease. Relapses can
occur when people are re-infected with the bacterium, treatment
guidelines aren’t followed, or the three-drug regimen supplied
free by the WHO hasn’t worked, possibly because of  antibiotic
resistance .  “The risk exists,” said Emmanuelle Cambau, associate
director at the French National Reference Center for
Mycobacterial Infections, who is part of the WHO surveillance
network for drug resistance in leprosy. “For now, it’s low, but
we must be vigilant.”  Resistance to the antibiotic rifampicin, a key component of
multidrug therapy, was first documented in 1976, Cambau said in
a telephone interview from Paris. The same medicine, made by
companies including  Lupin Ltd. (LPC) , is also used to treat
tuberculosis -- caused by a bacterium from the same family as
leprosy. Rifampicin-resistant TB is common in India,  studies
show .  Not History  Resistance can develop when undiagnosed leprosy sufferers
take antibiotics repeatedly for other ailments, Cambau said.
Those people can then pass on their resistant germs to others.  To deal leprosy a real blow, “there needs to be a
political commitment, a medical commitment and financial
backing,” Cambau said. Trouble is, many view the disease as a
thing of the past. “With leprosy, people have this impression
that it’s over, that it’s part of history,” she said.  India’s National Leprosy Elimination Program was supported
with loans from the World Bank until 2004 and the Indian
government took over funding the following year. Baij Nath
Mittal, a former deputy director-general of the program, and
another health ministry official were convicted last year of
misappropriating 14.6 million rupees ($229,000) of WHO and
Unicef leprosy funds from 1991 to 1993 and sentenced to jail,
 court documents  show.  While funding for Pai’s Bombay Leprosy Project has dried
up, his clientele hasn’t. His center used to get $65,000 a year
in funding from groups including the German Leprosy and TB
Relief Association and the Spanish non-profit Mumbai Smiles. It
now exists “year to year,” Pai said.  Silent Spreaders  That’s frustrating efforts to ensure patients complete
treatment as well as attempts to track down those they may have
infected and are unaware they carry the bacterium, he said. The
clinic finds 25 to 30 people a year who test positive during
visits to high-prevalence neighborhoods.  “By the time they come in for treatment, it’s too late and
they’ve infected so many,” Pai said. “It’s important to
monitor the trends in bacteriologically positive cases. It
indicates that transmission is continuing.”  India accounted for three of every five new leprosy cases
worldwide last year, or 134,752 of the 232,857 cases reported
globally, the Geneva-based WHO said in an Aug. 30 report. New
cases have increased annually from an historic low of 126,800 in
2010, yet remain well below the 560,000 recorded as recently as
2000, thanks to the effectiveness of multidrug therapy.  “As economies developed, as people became more and more
aware of hygiene and sanitation, leprosy gradually disappeared
from Europe and other parts of the world,” said David Heymann,
a former WHO assistant director general who headed the agency’s
polio program and helped eradicate smallpox from India. “I
think it’s still pretty early to talk about that in India.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  