-- Merkel Says German Vote Is Decision Time for Euro’s Future
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   A r n e   D e l f s
-- 2013-09-18T08:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/merkel-says-german-election-is-decision-time-for-euro-s-future.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  said that
 Germany ’s election in four days will be a referendum on the
euro’s future stability, as she appealed to voters to reward her
handling of the debt crisis with a third term.  Merkel, speaking at a rally of her  Christian Democratic
Union  party in the eastern city of Magdeburg, cast the national
vote on Sept. 22 as a decision between her policy of conditional
bailouts for weaker euro countries and what she portrayed as
plans by Germany’s opposition to pool the currency bloc’s debt.  “As we stabilize the euro -- and that’s one thing you are
deciding about on Sunday -- there are different approaches,”
Merkel told the crowd of several thousand yesterday, some of
whom held aloft orange “Angie” signs. “We offer aid when we
get something in return.”  The  Social Democrats  led by  Peer Steinbrueck  and the
Greens, which aim to unseat Merkel and form a coalition,
advocate a joint debt repayment fund and other options that
would “throw all of the debt into one pot,” she said. “That
is why your decision is also about  Europe ’s future path.”  Merkel, in power since 2005, is campaigning on her economic
stewardship and her insistence on reforms in exchange for aid
during the debt crisis that began in  Greece  in 2009 and spread
to Ireland,  Portugal ,  Spain  and Cyprus. Her message of a safe
hand on the tiller was bolstered yesterday as German  investor
confidence  climbed to the highest level in more than three years
after the benchmark  DAX index  rose to a record the previous day.  Audi View  “We in Germany are really satisfied with the job  Angela
Merkel  did,” Rupert Stadler, chief executive officer of
carmaker Audi AG, said yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. She listens to industry problems and acts, so that
“in the last months and years we have good stability now in
Germany,” he said.  Steinbrueck, Merkel’s first-term finance minister turned
main election challenger, says her austerity push has divided
Europe and advocates more emphasis on growth. At home, she has
neglected Europe’s biggest economy, showing “guidelines but no
direction,” he said yesterday at a separate rally in Wuppertal,
in the SPD-controlled state of North Rhine-Westphalia.  “The gap between rich and poor has clearly grown in
Germany,” Steinbrueck said, defending SPD plans to raise the
top rate of income tax to 49 percent from 42 percent and to
impose a “ wealth tax .” Banks must “finally’ be called upon to
pay for the crisis they spawned, and his party would ban
“speculative trades” on commodities and foodstuffs, he said.  ‘Economic Judgement’  Steinbrueck’s strength “is his power of economic
judgement, something that Merkel lacks,” Helmut Schmidt, the
former Social Democratic chancellor, was cited as saying in an
interview published in Bild newspaper today.  For all Merkel’s clear lead over Steinbrueck in approval
terms, latest polls suggest the race is too close to call as a
result of Germany’s coalition system of government. Support for
Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc held at 39 percent in a
weekly Forsa poll for Stern magazine published yesterday, while
her Free Democratic coalition partner lost a percentage point to
5 percent, the threshold to win parliamentary seats.  Steinbrueck’s SPD was unchanged at 25 percent, and the
Greens held at 9 percent. The anti-capitalist Left had 10
percent, also unchanged. That leaves neither main bloc with a
 majority , according to Stern. Forsa polled 2,502 voters on Sept.
10-16. The margin of error was as much as 2.5 percentage points.  Final Cabinet  Merkel presided over the final cabinet meeting of her
second term in Berlin today before campaigning in Schwerin in
northeastern Germany and then in Hamburg. Steinbrueck is in
North Rhine-Westphalia, Lower Saxony and then also in Hamburg.  The chancellor winds up her campaign on Sept. 21 in Berlin
and in Stralsund, the main city in her electoral district on the
 Baltic Sea . Steinbrueck will hold his final rally in  Frankfurt ,
the main city of Hesse state, which holds regional elections on
the same day as the federal ballot.  The most likely outcome on Sunday is a national “grand
coalition” of the two main parties, that “would probably not
have an easy start,”  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING
Group NV in Brussels, said in a Sept. 16 note. “Negotiations on
content, portfolios and persons could take some time,” with  tax
policy  “the most controversial topic.”  Merkel, speaking in Magdeburg, again rebuffed her FDP
partner’s call for help to reach the 5 percent mark, saying that
every vote must go to her own party. Citing joblessness that has
declined from more than 5 million to less than 3 million on her
watch, she urged supporters to turn out and cast ballots for her
party even if they like her more than the CDU.  ‘Good Years’  “We had four good years and I want us to have more good
years,” she said. “You only get Merkel if you vote for the
Christian Democratic Union.”  Thirty percent of voters remain undecided, an Allensbach
study published in today’s  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  found.  “An election campaign only comes to the end immediately
before the vote,”  Gerhard Schroeder , the SPD chancellor who led
a coalition with the Greens from 1998 to 2005, was cited as
saying in Bild. “So long as you don’t give up, anything’s
possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Magdeburg via 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Arne Delfs in Wuppertal via 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  