-- D.C. Shootings Revive Scrutiny of Gun Permit Regulations
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-09-17T13:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/lethal-force-laws-faulted-by-group.html
The shooting death of  Florida 
teenager Trayvon Martin, which sparked debate over  Stand Your
Ground  gun laws, and yesterday’s mass shooting in Washington are
bringing fresh scrutiny to statutes regarding an individual’s
right to carry a concealed weapon.  Weak concealed-gun-carry laws in 25 U.S. states add to the
dangers from laws that let a person use lethal force in self
defense if he or she feels threatened by another individual,
according to a  report  today by the Center for American Progress
in Washington, a research group aligned with Democrats.  “It’s not enough to look at Stand Your Ground laws,” said
Arkadi Gerney, the group’s crime and gun policy expert who
helped write the report provided to  Bloomberg News . “You’ve
also got to look at the question of how lax concealed-carry laws
are putting guns in the hands of criminals in the first place.”  The report was published a day after a deadly mass shooting
at the U.S. Naval Sea Systems Command headquarters complex in
Washington, about 3 miles southeast of the White House. The FBI
identified the gunman as Aaron Alexis, 34, who had at least two
previous firearms-related encounters with police. He was shot
and killed yesterday by police.  “With all the guns loose in society today it doesn’t take
a terrorist to do what was done,” said Eleanor Holmes Norton,
the District’s non-voting delegate in Congress, told reporters
yesterday.  District Restrictions  The shooting led the Senate Judiciary Committee to postpone
a hearing on Stand Your Ground laws set for today. The mothers
of two Florida shooting victims, including Martin’s, were to
testify. The Center had planned to release the report to
coincide with the hearing.  Under  District of Columbia  law, it’s illegal to possess an
assault rifle and getting a permit requires an extensive police
review, which would suggest the shooter must have been carrying
the guns unlawfully, Gerney said.  Alexis was last assigned to a logistics support squadron in
 Fort Worth ,  Texas , according to the Navy. NBC News quoted Oui
Stuhamtewakul, who said he was Alexis’ best friend and former
Fort Worth roommate, saying Alexis owned a gun and had a
concealed-weapons permit. He said they were last in touch four
months ago, when Alexis left for Washington.  Gerney said Texas is among states with lax concealed carry
laws.  Obama, Holder  President  Barack Obama  and Attorney General Eric Holder are
among political leaders who question how Florida’s Stand Your
Ground law may have contributed to Martin’s death.  Researchers at  Texas A&M University  in  College Station 
found that Stand Your Ground laws contributed to an 8 percent
increase in homicides in those states, adding 600 homicides.  George Zimmerman, who was legally carrying a firearm, told
police that when he got out of his truck on Feb. 26, 2012, he
was confronted and punched by Martin, and shot him in self
defense. He was acquitted of a second-degree murder charge July
13.  The center’s report is aimed at broadening the discussion
of gun controls to include concealed-carry laws. The Center
recommends “minimal protections” in state gun laws, including
prohibiting individuals who were subject to a restraining order
for domestic violence within 10 years from getting a permit and
requiring 10 hours of safety training for all permit holders.  Florida Limits  Under Florida law, individuals who have a criminal history
and a record of domestic abuse, such as Zimmerman, are entitled
to a concealed-carry permit, as long as they aren’t barred from
gun possession under federal law.  Almost two months after being found not guilty in the 2012
death of 17-year-old Martin, Zimmerman was placed in
investigative custody after his wife made a 911 call claiming he
pulled a gun on her during a domestic dispute.  If Zimmerman lived in one of 25 states other than Florida,
his prior arrest record could have prevented him from obtaining
a concealed-carry permit, the report found.  By contrast, 21 states have eliminated any kind of
screening in their permit process and any applicant who meets
minimal statutory requirements can obtain a permit.  The  National Rifle Association , the nation’s largest pro-gun rights organization, is lobbying for legislation to create a
national concealed-carry mandate, which would extend the law to
all 50 states, and it has said it is making such a law a “top
priority.” The group is based in Fairfax, Virginia.  Longer Sentences  Proponents argue that the laws reduce violent crime because
of the implied risk to a would-be offender that their victim may
also be armed.  “Just as longer prison sentences can deter individuals
from committing a crime, the fact that a victim might be able to
defend themselves also makes it riskier for them to commit the
crime,” said  John Lott , who has written extensively on the
subject, including a book titled “More Guns, Less Crime.”  Lott said his review of academic reports found about two-thirds of the research concluded violent crime fell in states
with liberal concealed-carry laws, and one-third said there is
no effect.  Thirty-seven states have passed laws that prohibit or limit
individuals convicted of certain misdemeanor violent crimes from
being eligible for a concealed-carry permit, according to the
Center for American Progress report.  In  North Carolina  and  Montana , an individual is permanently
barred from a carry permit after any conviction for certain
violent misdemeanors, according to the center’s report.  Florida Permits  By contrast, an investigation in Florida in 2007 by the
Sun-Sentinel newspaper found that in the previous year, the
state granted carry permits to more than 1,400 people who had
pleaded guilty or no contest to felonies, 216 people who had
outstanding warrants and 128 people with active domestic
violence restraining orders.  The report cites instances other than the Zimmerman case in
which individuals with a criminal history are permitted to
obtain and keep concealed carry permits even with their criminal
records.  The report said  the case  of Jason Kenneth Hamilton in  Idaho 
“provides a stark example of the dangers of granting licenses
to violent misdemeanants,” the report says.  In June 2006, Hamilton was convicted of attempting to
strangle a woman with whom he had started a relationship while
separated from his wife. He was able to maintain a permit to
carry a concealed firearm.  In 2007, Hamilton killed his wife, a police officer and a
church sexton during a shooting spree before committing suicide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  