-- Ethan Coen’s ‘Women’ Troll for the Right Stuff: Theater
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-09-17T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/ethan-coen-s-women-troll-for-the-right-stuff-theater.html
Like a classic thriller,  Ethan Coen ’s “Women or Nothing” begins with questions.  Why is the woman alone at center stage silently surveying
her living room? Why does she remove the framed photographs and
furtively stash them in the coat closet? What’s she hiding, and
from whom?  And what about this second woman, who enters the apartment
when the first one disappears, noting the missing pictures
before sneaking into the kitchen?  Gretchen (Halley Feiffer), the blond lawyer who hides the
photos, and Laura (Susan Pourfar), the brunette concert pianist
who notices, are longtime lovers who want a baby. To that end,
Gretchen has arranged for a colleague (Robert Beitzel) from her
firm to stop by.  It’s a comic setup they hope will end with Mr. Right
unwittingly impregnating Laura, who reluctantly agrees to the
improbable plan.  Coen is half the fraternal duo responsible for a number of
great, strange films (their new “ Inside Llewyn Davis ” will be
featured at the upcoming  New York  Film Festival). The  Atlantic
Theater , where “Women or Nothing” is having its world premiere,
has been his theatrical home; this is his first full-length play
after several programs of one-acts.  Briskly staged by David Cromer (“Nikolai and the Others”),
“Women or Nothing” doesn’t make any sense at all, beginning with
the central relationship. Every character is a speechifying
device, and the speeches are old news: Weren’t we making jokes
about sperm banks and anonymous donors ages ago?  But Deborah Rush blows some helium into the works as
Laura’s mother, a woman who could give Sam Spade a run for his
money as a dogged sniffer out of intimate secrets and no
embarrassment about her own.  Through Oct. 13 at the Atlantic Theater/Linda Gross
Theater, 336 W. 20th St. Information: +1-866-811-4111;
 http://www.atlantictheater.org .
Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Broadway box office  and  music .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 