-- Mets’ Harvey Opts for Rehab Program Over Immediate Elbow Surgery
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-18T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/mets-harvey-chooses-to-rehab-instead-of-surgery-cbs-says-1-.html
Matt Harvey decided to forgo
immediate surgery on his right elbow, opting instead for a
program to strengthen a partially torn ligament with the goal of
pitching for the New York Mets in 2014.  Harvey, who was shut down for the season last month because
of tenderness in his forearm, said yesterday that he’ll begin a
six-to-eight week throwing program that extends into the
offseason. He made the decision a day after meeting with
orthopedic surgeon James Andrews for a second opinion on whether
to undergo rehabilitation or have an operation on the torn ulnar
collateral ligament in his elbow.  A determination on whether the 24-year-old Harvey, who
emerged as one of Major League Baseball’s most dominating young
pitchers, ultimately needs surgery will be made during or after
his throwing regimen.  “If reoccurring symptoms come from that, obviously the
road that needs to be taken is surgery,” Harvey said yesterday
during a news conference at Citi Field in New York.  The Mets haven’t had a winning season since 2008 and Harvey
is projected to pair with 23-year-old Zack Wheeler atop the
team’s starting rotation as it rebuilds. The team now has to
wait several months to see if Harvey will be a part of the plans
for the 2014 season.  Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson said Harvey’s injury
won’t significantly affect the club’s offseason strategy.  “Hopefully Matt is part of that rotation next year, but if
he’s not, I don’t see us working hard to fill his spot from
outside the organization,” Alderson said yesterday before the
Mets’ 8-5 loss to the San Francisco Giants.  Pitching Depth  “The one thing we have is a great deal of starting
pitching depth, some of it untested at the minor-league level,”
Alderson added. “But we have a lot of confidence in the quality
and quantity of our starting pitching.”  Harvey, the National League’s starting pitcher in this
year’s All-Star Game, had a 9-5 record with a 2.27 earned-run
average this season. He led the NL with 191 strikeouts in 178
1/3 innings when he was shut down.  Harvey told the Mets’ medical staff that he had increased
discomfort in his forearm following his last start, against the
Detroit Tigers on Aug. 24. Harvey said he had no shooting pain
in his elbow and was shocked to learn the ligament was torn.  “I’ve never had pain in my elbow area where the UCL is and
for me it felt like: Why jump into surgery in a situation where
I’ve never had the tingling, the numbness, the shooting pain
that are usually the symptoms of needing that surgery?” Harvey
said yesterday. “For me, if a rehab and strengthening process
is the way to go, that’s what I wanted to do.”  Elbow Stability  Harvey said the tests he underwent with Andrews showed no
significant instability in his elbow.  Andrews specializes in the operation, known as Tommy John
surgery, in which the UCL -- the primary stabilizing ligament in
the inner elbow -- is replaced with a tendon from another part
of the patient’s body.  The procedure is named after the former major league
pitcher who first had the surgery in 1974. Tommy John surgery
requires about a year of recovery time, so having the operation
immediately might have allowed Harvey to return for the final
month of next season in a best-case scenario. If it’s determined
he needs surgery after the throwing program, he should be back
at full strength by the 2015 season.  “The one thing that’s important to keep in mind is that we
don’t believe, even with two months invested in this program,
that it will affect 2015 if surgery is ultimately necessary,”
Alderson said.  Two-time Cy Young Award-winner Roy Halladay of the
Philadelphia Phillies is among the pitchers to avoid surgery
after a UCL injury, opting instead for a rehab program. Harvey
talked with Halladay last month.  “History shows that if you have a UCL tear, you need to
replace it,” Harvey said. “But I think both doctors came to
the conclusion of going through a rehab process, picking
throwing back up, and going from there. In my mind, if I can
rehab and make everything strong, that’s what I want to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  