-- Europe’s Best Hope Is a German Grand Coalition
-- B y   P e t e r   B o f i n g e r
-- 2013-09-17T18:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/europe-s-best-hope-is-a-german-grand-coalition.html
The elections in Germany this
weekend won’t produce drastic change in the country’s euro-area
policies, leaving the region vulnerable to risks that are widely
underestimated.  One reason to hold this pessimistic view is that the two
most plausible outcomes of the  Sept. 22 vote  would return
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to power; either her conservative bloc
re-forms its existing coalition with the Free Democratic Party
or she enters into a grand coalition with the main opposition
 Social Democrats . For Europe, there is reason to hope for the
latter.  Merkel’s approach to the euro area’s financial crisis has
four decisive characteristics: It lacks a clearly stated long-term vision; it is very cautious; it is extremely pragmatic; and
on fiscal policy, it is dominated by the philosophy of the
proverbial Swabian housewife, which holds that there is nothing
worse than debt.  These principles are clearly reflected in Germany’s
management of the euro crisis. All major steps forward were
firefighting measures designed to address only immediate
threats, including the creation of the currency area’s two
crisis funds: the European Financial Stability Facility in 2010
and the European Stability Mechanism last year.  Germany ’s sole
forward-looking contribution to the policy framework of the euro
area is the fiscal compact, which severely limits the ability of
governments to incur debts.  Dangerous Gamble  There is no reason to think that after Sept. 22, Germany
will change course and offer new initiatives to shape the euro
area. The muddling-through will continue. This approach is based
on the hope that, somehow, problem countries will be able to
reach a cyclical turnaround; structural reforms will pay off;
and eventually debt-to-gross-domestic-product ratios will start
to decline.  The underlying assumption is that the European Central Bank
will be able and willing to go on protecting the system against
panic attacks in the financial markets. Under this rosy
scenario, there is no need to move forward with political
integration, particularly in fiscal policy. It may work out, but
it is an unnecessary and dangerous gamble to take with  Europe ’s
future.  What happens if this benign future doesn’t materialize? So
far, in two large problem countries,  Italy  and  Spain , but also
in  Greece , the recession hasn’t ended and unemployment continues
to rise. Thanks to the ECB’s pledge last year to do what it
takes to prevent a sovereign default, Europe’s banking system
remains calm. Yet, as deleveraging goes on, new investors will
have great difficulty in getting projects funded. And although
budget deficits have come down slowly, the debt-to-GDP ratios so
closely monitored by investors are steadily increasing.  So far, there are no clear signs that the euro crisis’s
three-step vicious cycle -- a banking crisis feeds a public-sector crisis that, in turn, feeds a macroeconomic crisis -- has
been broken. Under such a negative scenario, the  European
Central Bank  could be in a very uncomfortable position. For
instance, a political crisis in Italy combined with a continuing
recession could easily lead to a new wave of investor panic. If
crisis strikes, the central bank could fulfill the pledge it
made last year to intervene in the market by purchasing bonds,
but only after Italy has asked for an adjustment program and
once its government has adopted the required policy measures.  What happens if politicians are unwilling to ask for such a
program? Or if they are unable to assemble the parliamentary
majorities needed to adopt the required adjustment measures? A
decision by the ECB to buy  Italian bonds  unconditionally would
create very serious problems for Germany, whose constitutional
court would regard such a measure as a monetary financing
incompatible with the euro’s underlying treaty.  Fragile State  The impressive stabilization that ECB President  Mario Draghi  has achieved with his “whatever it takes” pledge
shouldn’t be regarded as permanent. The euro area is still in a
very fragile state caused by the fundamental problem of the
common currency’s institutional architecture, which creates a
monetary union but allows the 17 member states to retain their
fiscal and political autonomy.  Draghi’s stabilization of the bond markets offered a window
of opportunity for fundamental reform that has remained largely
unexploited, most recently because debate has been put on hold
until after Germany’s elections. There has been progress in
building a banking union, but no attempts have been made to
bring better political integration to the euro area, and
valuable time has been lost trying to secure treaty change.  Consider what would happen if, as is likely, the muddling-through continued and Germany insisted on waiting until the last
moment to defuse any crisis. For example, a problem emerges in
Italy and the constraints set by the German constitutional court
mean the ECB cannot provide the promised unlimited backstop.
Then, the governments of the euro area would suddenly have to
assume joint liability for Italian debt that would far exceed
the capacity of the European Stability Mechanism. In 2011, the
 German Council of Economic Experts  developed a plan for a
redemption pact that would resolve such problems by establishing
common liability for all public debt in the euro area above a 60
percent threshold, but it isn’t clear that this mechanism could
be activated at short notice. A financial meltdown in Europe,
together with the uncontrolled breakup of the monetary union,
would then be possible.  If Merkel has to cooperate with the Free Democrats again,
there will considerable resistance to any fundamental changes to
euro-area policy. A coalition with the Social Democrats could be
different, however, because that party’s leaders have committed
to adopting the debt-redemption pact without waiting for another
crisis. A grand coalition would find it easier to implement the
measures that Europe needs, even though they would be unpopular
in Germany, whatever the result this weekend.  ( Peter Bofinger  is a professor of economics at the
University of Wuerzburg and a member of Germany’s Council of
Economic Experts.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Bofinger at  peter.bofinger@uni-wuerzburg.de .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 