-- Euro-Area Exports Drop 1.6% as Bloc Struggles With Crisis Legacy
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-09-17T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/euro-area-exports-drop-1-6-as-bloc-struggles-with-crisis-legacy.html
Euro-area exports decreased in
July, led by  Germany  and Italy, as the 17-nation currency bloc
continued to struggle with the legacy of a debt crisis now in
its fourth year.  Exports from the 17-nation bloc fell a seasonally adjusted
1.6 percent from June, when they gained a revised 1.3 percent,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
Shipments from Germany,  Europe ’s biggest economy, decreased 3.9
percent. The euro-area  trade surplus  narrowed to 11.1 billion
euros ($14.8 billion).  The euro-area economy’s return to growth in the second
quarter has been restrained by  record unemployment  and  inflation 
that has remained below the  European Central Bank ’s 2 percent
ceiling for seven months. Industrial output contracted more than
economists forecast in July.  That may help to explain why economists in a Bloomberg News
survey see growth slowing to 0.2 percent in the third quarter
after a 0.3 percent expansion in the three months through June.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  on Sept. 5 cited “broad-based
weakness in the economy” as a basis for the Governing Council’s
expectation that the Frankfurt-based central bank’s benchmark
rate will remain “at present or lower levels for an extended
period of time.”  The ECB sees a “gradual improvement in economic activity
from low levels,” Draghi said.  Car Sales  Exports from France, the second-biggest euro-area economy,
rose 1.3 percent in July, while shipments from Italy and Spain
declined 2.8 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively.  Imports into the  euro zone  slipped 0.1 percent after a 1.4
percent gain in June, today’s report showed.  European car sales fell in August, bringing deliveries this
year to the lowest since records began in 1990, as record
joblessness in the euro region hurt deliveries at  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,
PSA Peugeot Citroen and Fiat SpA.  European sales by Volkswagen, the region’s largest
carmaker, posted an 11 percent drop in sales last month, dragged
down by a 17 percent plunge at the namesake VW brand. The Audi
division, the world’s second-largest maker of upscale vehicles,
sold 6.4 percent fewer cars in Europe.  d  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  