-- Teva Copy to Boost Billionaire-Backed Drugmaker: Corporate India
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e
-- 2013-09-18T11:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/teva-copy-to-boost-billionaire-backed-drugmaker-corporate-india.html
Natco Pharma Ltd. (NTCPH) , an Indian
drugmaker backed by billionaire Dilip Shanghvi, says its sales
will jump 62 percent in two years once it starts selling a
generic version of Copaxone, a treatment for multiple sclerosis.  The company is likely to receive U.S. Food and Drug
Administration approval to make the copy in May next year, Chief
Executive Officer Rajeev Nannapaneni said in an interview.  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , which owns the rights for
Copaxone, suffered a setback in July after a U.S. court ruling
gave the $4 billion drug less than a year of patent protection.  “The big growth next year is going to come from export of
formulations, particularly Copaxone,” Nannapaneni said at his
office in the southern city of Hyderabad. The FDA approval “is
important. We strongly believe we have a fair chance. It will
make us an immensely profitable company.”  Natco is focusing on higher margins by making finished
medicines whose patents have either expired or it has
challenged.  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  will market the generic version of
Copaxone in the U.S., Nannapaneni said. Sales of the drug in the
North American country reached $806 million in the quarter
through June, Mumbai-based brokerage ICICIdirect said, citing
Teva data.  Shares of the company advanced 4.4 percent in Mumbai, the
most in a month, to 620.90 rupees, the highest level since Aug.
19, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bull Scenario  Revenue may reach 10 billion rupees ($158 million) in the
year ending March 31, 2015, from 6.2 billion rupees in the 12
months through March 31, 2013, according to Nannapaneni. In the
“bull scenario,” sales could touch about 13 billion rupees in
the year, said Siddhant Khandekar, an analyst at ICICIdirect.  Any rejection by the FDA may deal a blow to Natco’s growth
plans. The U.S. regulator, which is cracking down on poor
manufacturing standards in the South Asian country, this month
restricted imports from one of the production facilities of
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. and issued a warning letter to Strides
Arcolab Ltd., a Bangalore-based company.  “An approval would lead to a re-rating of the stock,”
said Praful Bohra, an analyst at Nirmal Bang Institutional
Equities in  Mumbai . “I have taken a 60 percent probability of a
launch happening. That’s not very optimistic because it’s a
difficult-to-make drug. There has been increased regulatory
risk.”  Price Target  Shares of the company have risen 35 percent this year,
compared with a 64 percent plunge in Wockhardt Ltd., India’s
worst performing drug stock, and the 33 percent slide in
Ranbaxy, which in May agreed to pay $500 million to settle fraud
allegations.  Six of seven analysts  recommend  buying Natco shares, with
one favoring holding them, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The average one-year price target is 714.80 rupees.  Copaxone, the largest branded drug sold by the Petach
Tikva, Israel-based company, accounted for almost 20 percent of
its revenue in 2012 and 40 percent of the multiple sclerosis
market.  Multiple sclerosis causes the immune system to attack the
insulating tissue around nerve fibers. It stops nerve cells from
sending signals, sapping patients’ energy, blurring their vision
and slowly depriving them of mobility, balance and coordination.
Copaxone is an injection designed to work with the body’s immune
system to cut relapses of the disease.  Facing Hurdles  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  on July 26  upheld  four patents that expire in May
2014, while invalidating other patent claims, including one that
expires in September 2015.  Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MNTA) , which
is developing a generic version with  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz, and
Mylan along with Natco were Teva’s challengers.  Generic-drug makers face hurdles in getting their products
to the market next year. Teva can seek a review before the U.S.
Supreme Court. The FDA would need to approve copies of the drug
and Teva says that the regulator should require lengthy clinical
trials not typical for generic medicines because Copaxone is a
complex molecule.  “A Teva appeal in a higher court is a hanging sword,”
said ICICIdirect’s Khandekar. If an approval comes through,
“this could be a game changer for Natco. The multiple sclerosis
space isn’t too crowded.”  Weston, Massachusetts-based  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  won FDA
approval in March for its MS drug Tecfidera, which analysts
project may draw more than $3.5 billion in annual revenue by
2017.  Capex Plans  Natco plans to spend 1.5 billion rupees in the next one
year to expand its operations, including a plant in the eastern
state of Assam to make formulations for the domestic market,
said Nannapaneni.  Shanghvi, whose net worth is about $12 billion, owns about
3.7 percent of Natco, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
He is the founder and largest shareholder of Sun Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd., India’s biggest drugmaker by market value.  Generic cancer drugs account for about 60 percent to 70
percent of Natco’s future products, the CEO said. The company
makes generic versions of Novartis’ Gleevec and Bayer AG’s
Nexavar as the nation has denied patent protection for the two
in  India .  Should Natco fail to get FDA’s approval for the Copaxone
copy, the company can fall back on its oncology products for
revenue, said Nirmal Bang’s Bohra.  “It won’t be the end of the world for them as they have a
strong position in the domestic cancer segment,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at   aghosh@bloomberg.net  