-- Ex-Coach Sandusky Should Get New Trial, Lawyer Argues
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-09-17T22:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/ex-coach-sandusky-set-to-argue-unfair-trial-in-appeal.html
Jerry Sandusky, the ex- Pennsylvania 
State University assistant football coach sentenced to at least
30 years in prison for abusing boys, deserves a second trial
because his first was unfair, his lawyer argued today.  Sandusky’s trial attorneys were given inadequate time to
prepare their case and the judge didn’t tell the jury to weigh
whether the years that passed before the crimes were reported
compromised the victims’ credibility, attorney Norris Gelman
told the Superior Court of Pennsylvania.  “Sure they were children” when the assaults took place,
Gelman said of the victims, now in their 20s, during the hearing
today in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. “They left childhood a
long time ago and these were rough and tumble kids. Their eyes
were open.”  Sandusky, 69, who is being held in restricted housing at a
maximum security prison in Waynesburg, Pennsylvania, wasn’t
allowed to attend today’s proceedings.  Sandusky is prepared to take his appeal to the state’s
highest court if three-judge-panel rules against him, Gelman
said yesterday in a phone interview. The court didn’t indicate
today when it would rule in the case.  James Barker, an attorney for the state, told the appeals
court the case was handled properly with sufficient time given
to the defense to prepare.  “In order to conclude that Jerry Sandusky is entitled to a
new trial one would have to misread this record and misread the
law,” Barker told the panel. “They had enough time to prepare,
they chose to use it in an unwise fashion.”  Not Enough Time  Attorneys representing Sandusky at trial said last year
that they had less than 4 1/2 months to prepare a case based on
52 criminal counts and 10 separate victims.  Former lead attorney Joseph Amendola went into trial
“blind” with regard to the contents of more than 12,000 pages
of documents turned over in pre-trial proceedings, Gelman said.  Prosecutors also gained an advantage when they were allowed
to comment on Sandusky’s silence at court, saying the former
coach conducted television interviews but refused to answer
questions under oath, Gelman said.  Prosecutors portrayed Sandusky to the jury as a serial
child molester who used the Second Mile, a charity he founded
for needy boys, to recruit his victims by befriending them and
“grooming” them for abuse with gifts, trips to  Penn State 
football games and money.  The abuse took place in buildings on Penn State’s campus
and at Sandusky’s home. Sandusky spent more than 30 years at the
school before retiring in 1999. He was found guilty by a jury in
June 2012 of 45 counts of abusing boys over a 15-year period.  At his sentencing on Oct. 9, 2012, Sandusky blamed his
victims, attorneys and the media for making him out to be a
“monster,” who “did disgusting things.”  Three Requests  Among the issues raised on appeal is Common Pleas Court
Judge John Cleland’s alleged error in denying three requests to
delay the trial and prosecutors’ alleged misconduct for
adversely commenting on Sandusky’s refusal to testify in his own
defense at trial. Cleland, who oversaw Sandusky’s trial and
sentenced him, rejected those arguments in a January ruling.  “Adverse comment on the accused not testifying is a
double-edge sword,” Gelman wrote in papers filed in preparation
for the hearing. “It fortifies the prosecution’s case, and
adverse comment on the silence of the accused at trial
undermines the defense offered.”  Prosecutors countered in papers last month that their
comments were related to the TV interview, not Sandusky’s
failure to testify. They urged the appeals panel to also reject
Sandusky’s other claims.  “Sandusky never identified any evidence that would have
affected the outcome of trial in any way and so cannot claim to
have been prejudiced,” according to the filing.  ‘Unicorn Killer’  Gelman, a former Philadelphia prosecutor, is known for
defending Ira Einhorn, dubbed the “unicorn killer,” when the
counterculture leader was tried in absentia in 1993 for the 1977
murder of his girlfriend, Holly Maddux. Gelman spent four years
fighting Einhorn’s extradition from  France  following his arrest
in 1997 after 16 years on the run. Einhorn was returned to
Philadelphia in 2001, retried, convicted and given a life
sentence.  The Sandusky scandal led to the firings of university
President  Graham Spanier  and legendary football coach  Joe Paterno , who died in January 2012. Spanier and two other school
officials face related criminal charges.  Last month, the school agreed to settle claims brought by
Sandusky victims for an undisclosed amount. It has spent almost
$50 million on the scandal, including the first of five
installments toward a $60 million fine imposed by the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association  for its handling of abuse
allegations.  The appeals case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Gerald
Sandusky, 343 MDA 2013, Superior Court of Pennsylvania Middle
District (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  