-- Exchange Halt Shows Perils of Complexity Beyond Stocks: Options
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-09-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/exchange-halt-shows-perils-of-complexity-beyond-stocks-options.html
The price-feed malfunction that
briefly froze U.S. options exchanges yesterday shows the dangers
of a fragmented market structure go beyond equities trading.  All 12 U.S. options venues temporarily shut, with firms
from  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  to  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc. citing errors
within the Options Price Reporting Authority.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  is
looking into whether a software upgrade at its Securities
Industry Automation Corp. subsidiary, which administers the
feed, was to blame, said  Rich Adamonis , a company spokesman.  “These markets are very complex with 12 exchanges and
rising volume of quotes and trading activity,”  Andy Nybo , head
of derivatives research at New York-based Tabb Group LLC, said
in a phone interview. “Any disruption in a data feed or in a
data system will have a cascading effect. The industry is facing
significant challenges with increasing data loads.”  The interruption came three weeks after Nasdaq OMX’s system
for distributing U.S. stock prices failed, prompting a three-hour halt for thousands of companies. In the aftermath,
securities regulators told exchanges last week to collaborate on
preventing more shutdowns.  The options market saw disruptions yesterday morning,
according to  Christopher Rich , head options strategist at
JonesTrading Institutional Services LLC in  Chicago .  Manual Orders  “We had issues with a couple of options classes and had to
manually place orders on exchange floors,” he said.  Then, exchanges began to shut. Bats Global Markets Inc.
closed its options venue at 1:30 p.m. New York time and kept it
shut for 40 minutes. The OPRA feed was down from 1:40 p.m. to
1:50 p.m. New York time, Adamonis said.  The effect on volume was limited. About 14 million options
contracts changed hands in the U.S. yesterday, in line with the
average volume over the past 22 trading days, according to data
compiled by Trade Alert LLC.  While  trading  continued without disruption on American
equity markets, stock prices slipped around the time of the
mishap. About 614 million shares traded on all exchanges between
1:30 p.m. and 2:30 p.m.  New York  time, compared with 499 million
in the preceding hour, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell from 1,702 to below 1,698
between 1:30 p.m. and 1:43 p.m.  In a meeting with the heads of U.S. securities markets last
week, Mary Jo White, the chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, urged the executives to shore up price
feeds that serve investors and traders.  SEC’s Order  Participants included representatives from U.S. stock and
options exchanges, the  Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ,
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. and Options Clearing Corp.
They were told to “provide comprehensive action plans that
address the standards necessary to establish highly resilient
and robust systems for the securities information processors,”
the SEC said in a statement. That includes “testing standards
and disclosure protocols,” it said.  On Aug. 22, Nasdaq’s computers were flooded with data from
NYSE Arca, a competing exchange, revealing a bug in Nasdaq’s
securities information processor for stocks that disabled
systems that should have prevented the malfunction from
snowballing.  Yesterday’s error “was only a short outage,” Daniel Brady, president of San Francisco-based trading firm Entropy
Capital LLC, said in a phone interview. “Not that
significant,” he said. “I imagine this is just further fodder
for the SEC and their review.”  Market Complexity  “As is our practice, we have been monitoring developments
and discussing them with market participants as appropriate,”
said  John Nester , an SEC spokesman.  American exchanges have faced criticism that the complexity
of their electronic infrastructure makes them vulnerable to
breakdowns. In addition to the Nasdaq halt on Aug. 22, options
markets were roiled in August when Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
bombarded exchanges with erroneous orders due to a computer
malfunction.  In April, the  Chicago Board Options Exchange  was down for 3
1/2 hours because of a software error caused by preliminary work
in preparation for a computer system reconfiguration. The outage
prevented investors from trading options based on the VIX gauge
of volatility and the  S&P 500 , which CBOE has exclusive rights
to.  According to OPRA’s  website , each trade that is executed on
an options exchange is reported to OPRA as a message, with quote
message traffic representing the vast majority generated.  Tighter Rules  “Quotes are generated automatically for individual options
series based on changes in the underlying stock price or index
value,” it said. “In other words, every time a price changes
for a particular equity security, the quotes for all of the
options on that security or an index in which that security is
represented are automatically updated on each exchange that
trades those options.”  Regulators have tightened rules at exchanges to avoid
market disruptions such as the May 2010 plunge known as the
flash crash, in which the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped
almost 1,000 points because of a faulty algorithm.  Yesterday’s problems in the options market highlight the
need for exchanges to have better backups, said Randall Warren,
who oversees about $100 million including options as chief
investment officer of Warren Financial Service in Exton,
 Pennsylvania . The SEC told exchanges last week to develop plans
to bolster price feeds and assess the “robustness and
resilience of other critical infrastructure systems,” according
to a Sept. 12 statement from the regulator.  “When you need the systems to trade, they need to be in
place,” he said in a phone interview. “The exchanges need to
get serious about their backup plans and test them out in real
time. The backup system should kick in in situations like this
and you shouldn’t miss a beat.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  