-- F-35 Fighter’s Tires Wear Out Too Soon, Pentagon Finds
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-09-17T17:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/f-35-fighter-s-tires-wear-out-too-soon-pentagon-finds.html
Tires that wear out too soon are
adding to the troubles facing  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35, the
Pentagon’s costliest weapons system.  Landing-gear tires made by Dunlop Aircraft Tyres Ltd. for
the Marine Corps version of the fighter have “been experiencing
an unacceptable wear rate when operating as a conventional
aircraft,” according to Joe DellaVedova, spokesman for the
Defense Department’s F-35 program office.  He said the tire, which costs about $1,500 apiece,
demonstrates “adequate wear” when the aircraft performs short
takeoffs and vertical landings intended for amphibious warfare
vessels and improvised runways.  While replacing worn-out tires may pale as a challenge
compared with keeping combat-ready software on track, fixing
jittery images in the pilot’s helmet and reining in rising
production costs, it’s emblematic of challenges that the
Pentagon must resolve to reduce what’s now a $1.1 trillion
estimate for operating and supporting a planned fleet of 2,443
aircraft for 55 years.  The F-35 has a projected price tag of $391.2 billion for
development and purchase of the fleet, up 68 percent from the
projection in 2001, as measured in current dollars.  The Pentagon is working with Lockheed Martin and
Birmingham, U.K.-based Dunlop Tyres on a new design for the
landing-gear tires that will be introduced next year,
DellaVedova said in an e-mailed statement. In the meantime,
Dunlop has provided a tire that’s “improved but still
unacceptable,” he said.  ‘Poor Design’  Michael Gilmore , the Defense Department’s director of
operational test and evaluation, said the Dunlop tires are
“wearing more quickly than expected” because of a “poor
design,” according to a statement from spokeswoman Jennifer Elzea.  John Butters, a spokesman for Dunlop Tyres, said in an e-mailed statement that the initial tires “are experiencing high
wear rates” and the interim model has “better tread wear.”
The company says  on its website  that it makes “world class
aircraft” tires “and nothing else.”  The Marine Corps model of the F-35 “faces a unique and
challenging operational environment” demanding a tire “that
can operate without damaging the landing surface,” Butters
said. The F-35B model also is being purchased by the U.K. and
 Italy .  Gilmore said that all three versions of the F-35 are
falling short of their planned reliability as measured by flying
hours between critical failures and failures that stem from
contractor issues. The Air Force model is at 65 percent of its
planned reliability, the Navy version at 63 percent and the
Marine Corps model at 61 percent, Gilmore said.  Improving Reliability  While lawmakers, the Pentagon’s independent testing office
and the Government Accountability Office have said the F-35 is
making progress on reliability, top Pentagon officials say more
needs to be done.  “We’re not where we need to be on reliability now, and I
think we can do better,” Frank Kendall, the Pentagon’s
undersecretary for acquisition, said at Senate hearing in June.
“We’re lagging our own goals” by “a significant margin right
now,” Kendall said.  Laura Siebert, a spokeswoman for Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed, said in an e-mail that the company is working with
suppliers to reduce defects and unreliable parts. She said
there’s been a 68 percent reduction since 2009 in supplier-caused defects and defect rates are dropping 10 percent per new
construction contact.  Michelin, Goodyear  “The quality performance of the program is comparable to”
earlier Air Force jets “at this stage, while setting a
trajectory that will support long-term fleet performance
expectations and production rate increases,” Siebert said.  DellaVedova said that tires made by  Michelin & Cie (ML)  and
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. for the Air Force and Navy carrier
versions, while running down sooner “than originally desired,
are currently averaging adequate wear rates.”  Military personnel at flight test centers and training
locations “discovered that the tires were wearing out too
quickly or becoming too thin,” Gilmore said.  Goodyear spokesman Scott Baughman said in an e-mailed
statement that the company “works closely with its customers to
meet tire specifications.” Michelin North America spokesman
Brian Remsberg said in an e-mailed statement that “we have not
received any complaints or requests for tire redesign.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  