-- Facebook, Google Face Brazil Storage Mandate on Snowden Leak
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-09-17T21:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/facebook-google-face-brazil-storage-mandate-on-snowden-leak-1-.html
Brazil ’s government is threatening
to force Internet service companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  to set up local data storage centers following
allegations the U.S. probed President  Dilma Rousseff ’s e-mails.  Internet service companies would have to follow Brazilian
privacy laws and the government may also decide to store
sensitive data such as tax information within the country to
protect it from foreign spies, Internet Policy Secretary
Virgilio Almeida told reporters in Brasilia yesterday. He spoke
after a meeting between industry representatives and Rousseff.  “Brazil has one of the largest IT markets in the world,”
Almeida said. “It’s natural that companies have part of their
infrastructure in the country.”  The measures designed to protect privacy come in response
to allegations that the U.S. National Security Agency used
software to access communications between Rousseff and staff
members. Rousseff today called off a state visit to  Washington 
next month in retaliation for the alleged intrusions, saying in
a statement published by her press office the trip may take
place if the U.S. government offers satisfactory explanations
regarding the allegations.  Forcing Internet companies to store user data in the South
American country threatens to deny Brazilians access to some
services provided by foreign companies, Google spokeswoman
Flavia Sekles said in an e-mailed response to questions today.
Facebook’s press office declined to comment on the possible new
requirements when contacted by e-mail.  ‘Unacceptable’  Foreign Minister Luiz Alberto Figueiredo on Sept. 2 called
the alleged spying “inadmissible and unacceptable” and is
demanding the U.S. provide an explanation.  “We carry out intelligence like just about every other
country around the world,” U.S. Deputy National Security
Adviser  Ben Rhodes  told reporters earlier this month about the
allegations. “If there are concerns we can address, consistent
with our national security requirements, we will aim to do so.”  The spying allegations were made Sept. 1 on Brazil’s most-watched TV news show, “Fantastico,” by U.S. journalist Glenn Greenwald. He cited secret documents obtained from fugitive
security analyst Edward Snowden in May.  “Fantastico” reported on Sept. 8 the U.S. also spied on
Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, Petroleo Brasileiro SA,
citing classified documents made available by Snowden.  Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said Sept. 12 the
government is considering developing locally-made  network
equipment  that phone companies would be required to use as a
defense against foreign spies. The government is studying
measures to attract investment in Internet equipment, Almeida
said yesterday.  Brazil, where Congress is preparing to discuss new Internet
legislation to protect privacy, follows  Germany  in calling for a
homegrown industry to avoid U.S. surveillance.  Telecommunications regulator Anatel said this month it’s
investigating contracts between Brazilian operators and foreign
companies. The focus is on the “main companies with the largest
client bases,” the agency said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  