-- Fairfax Lists Harborside Sydney Mansion for Sale in Record Quest
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-09-17T08:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/fairfax-lists-harborside-sydney-mansion-for-sale-in-record-quest.html
The Fairfax family, founders of the
company that owns the  Australian Financial Review  and the Sydney
Morning Herald, are seeking to sell their Sydney harborside
estate in what could become the nation’s biggest residential
property sale ever.  Elaine, set on 6,980 square meters (75,132 square-foot) of
land covering six property titles in the city’s eastern suburbs,
is expected to set a price record, said Ken Jacobs, Sydney-based
managing director of Ken Jacobs real estate, the Australian
affiliate of Christie’s Great Estates, which is selling the
home.  “There’s not been a waterfront of this size come to the
market that I can remember,” Jacobs said in a telephone
interview. “It’ll set a new Australian record. There’s no
comparables to work from,” he said, declining to estimate a
sale price.  The listing of the seven-bedroom house with a tennis court
comes amid a revival in Sydney’s property market, which has
recorded an 8.3 percent increase in prices this year, according
to Brisbane-based researcher RP Data.  Publisher Deke Miskin and his swimsuit-designer wife Eve
this year sold their nine-bedroom harborfront mansion  Altona ,
also in Point Piper, after offering it for more than A$50
million ($47 million). Television executive Bruce McWilliam sold
a house dubbed Bang & Olufsen for its resemblance to the sound
system made by the Danish company for A$33 million, the Domain
property website  reported  on April 21.  Elaine, located at 550 New South Head Road, Double Bay, was
built in 1863 and was bought by Geoffrey Fairfax in 1891,
according to the  Woollahra library website . It was inhabited by
the Fairfax family until 1995.  John Fairfax  The home has since been rented out and has a lease in place
until early next year, Jacobs said. Christie’s, which will
conduct a global marketing campaign to sell the home, is taking
registrations of interest in the property, he said. It won’t
open the house for inspections until next year, he said.  John Fairfax bought the Sydney Morning Herald in 1841 and
the family controlled the publisher John Fairfax Ltd. until 1990
when the company’s bankers called in receivers as debts totaled
A$1.7 billion, according to the newspaper’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  