-- Fed Decision-Day Guide From QE Tapering to Bernanke Comments
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-09-17T14:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/fed-decision-day-guide-from-qe-tapering-to-bernanke-comments.html
Here’s what to look for when the
 Federal Open Market Committee  releases its statement at 2 p.m.
tomorrow after a two-day meeting in Washington. The panel will
also provide its economic forecasts, including the first fed
funds rate projection for 2016. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  plans
to hold a news conference at 2:30 p.m. tomorrow.  -- A reduction in the pace of the Fed’s  bond purchases ,
currently at $85 billion per month. Labor Department figures
that showed job growth was slower than forecast in August didn’t
derail economists’ expectations for the central bank to dial
back the program by $10 billion at this week’s meeting,
according to the median of 34 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
on Sept. 6.  -- “If there will be tapering, it is likely to be small,”
said Roberto Perli, a partner at Cornerstone Macro LP in
Washington. “The tapering decision will be a very close one.”  -- A decision to dial down Treasury purchases while keeping
mortgage bond purchases unchanged, according to the Sept. 6
Bloomberg survey. The Fed will probably keep its mortgage bond
buying at $40 billion while cutting its Treasury purchases to
$35 billion, the median estimate in the survey showed.  -- An assurance from Bernanke in his press conference that
any further tapering will hinge on changes in the economy,
according to Joseph Lavorgna, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche
Bank Securities Inc. Bernanke will probably also emphasize that
6.5 percent unemployment wouldn’t be a trigger for a policy
tightening, he said. The FOMC has pledged not to raise the fed
funds rate as long as unemployment is 6.5 percent or higher and
the outlook for inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent.  ‘Dovish’ Tone  -- “Even if they start tapering, the message you’re going
to hear is, the outlook for short-term  interest rates  hasn’t
changed, said  Greg McBride , senior financial analyst for
Bankrate.com. Bernanke’s tone will be “dovish” and “the goal
is to comfort financial markets.”  -- A possible decrease in the  unemployment rate  threshold,
according to  Eric Green , global head of research for TD
Securities in  New York . Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  has been arguing for this change.  -- A downgrade to officials’ forecasts for this year’s
growth rate, according to  Michael Hanson , senior U.S. economist
at Bank of America Corp. in New York. Policy makers in June
forecast gross domestic product to expand by 2.3 percent to 2.6
percent in 2013.  -- New estimates for the appropriate level of the  federal
funds rate  at the end of 2016, which officials may say is about
2.25 percent or “a little bit above” that, according to
Michael Feroli, chief U.S. economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co.  -- “What you get in that 2016 interest rate forecast will
be pretty important in guiding market expectations,” Feroli
said in a Sept. 12 conference call. “If the economy continues
to repair as the Fed will likely project, you’re going to have
in 2016 an unemployment rate probably close to their view of the
natural rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  