-- Festival Demand for Gold in India Seen Hurt by Slowing Economy
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-09-17T09:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/festival-demand-for-gold-in-india-seen-hurt-by-slowing-economy.html
Gold demand in  India , the biggest
user, is poised to decline during the main festival season as
the weakest economic growth in a decade curbs discretionary
spending and volatile prices spur investor selling.  Sales of jewelry, coins and bars between August and
November will be less than a year earlier because of the
slowdown and a bullion shortage caused by central bank curbs on
imports, said C. Vinod Hayagriv, managing director of C.
Krishniah Chetty & Sons Pvt., a Bangalore-based retailer. He
didn’t say how much gold was sold during festivals in 2012.  India’s economy  expanded at the slowest pace since 2003 in
the year ended March as investment fell and consumer spending in
the nation of 1.2 billion people moderated. HSBC Holdings Plc
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut  growth estimates  for India to 4
percent in 2013-2014. Falling gold demand is a reprieve for the
government, which raised import taxes thrice this year to
moderate consumption that has contributed to the slide in the
rupee and an all-time high current-account deficit.  “Fresh buying is not happening because there is a
liquidity crunch and  consumer spending  has come down,” said
Haresh Soni, chairman of the All India Gems & Jewellery Trade
Federation. “The sentiment is weak because of the economy and
people don’t have cash for additional spending. Some consumers
are delaying purchases for marriages until prices stabilize.”  Record Bullion  Bullion in India rallied to a record last month after the
rupee slumped to an all-time low. The rupee is down 13 percent
this year and is the worst performer after Indonesian rupiah
among Asian currencies on concern that foreign capital outflows
will accelerate as the U.S. Federal Reserve prepares to reduce
monetary stimulus.  “Everything is very fluid,” said Hayagriv. “Consumers
will just wait it out because there are all sorts of
uncertainties, an election and policy restrictions going on at
the same time.”  Exchange-traded  funds  backed by gold in India saw a net
outflow of 5.88 billion rupees ($93 million) in August,
according to the Association of  Mutual Funds  in India. The value
of assets fell to 118.28 billion rupees last month from a record
120.6 billion rupees in January, data showed.  Higher tariffs and central-bank rules linking overseas
purchases to re-exports may cut gold imports in the second half
to not more than 150 metric tons from 478 tons in 2012 and spur
smuggling, according to the jewelry federation. Consumption in
India, which imports almost all the bullion it needs, accounted
for about 20 percent of global demand in 2012, according to data
from the World Gold Council.  Scrap Sales  Recycled gold supply jumped after bullion priced in rupees
surged to a record last month, helping ease a raw material
scarcity, according to Soni. Banks and traders have yet to
resume imports after halting purchases in July, he said.  Futures in Mumbai, which advanced to an all-time of 35,074
rupees per 10 grams on Aug. 28, was at 29,922 rupees today.
Prices in rupees, which include a 10 percent import tax, have
fallen 3 percent this year, compared with a 21 percent drop in
the metal priced in dollars as some global investors lost faith
in the metal as a store of value.  “People want to wait right now and we feel that the
consumption will be less this festival and wedding season than
last year,” said Soni. “Every time any market is very
volatile, consumers tend to stay away.”  Gold is bought in India during festivals, for marriages as
part of the bridal trousseau and gifted in the form of jewelry
by relatives. Consumption was 864.2 tons in 2012, while imports
totaled 860 tons, according to data from the council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  