-- Fidelity Joins Pimco in Cutting Provincial Bonds: Canada Credit
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-09-17T17:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/fidelity-joins-pimco-in-cutting-provincial-bonds-canada-credit.html
Provincial bonds are emerging as
Canada’s biggest casualties of speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will begin slowing four years of monetary stimulus.  The nation’s provincial debt has proved most sensitive to
the prospect of higher interest rates triggered by the
withdrawal of bond purchases by the U.S. central bank, losing
4.6 percent this year, compared with 1.3 percent for corporate
counterparts. The losses are the first since 1999 and the worst
ever, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Brian Miron, manager of  Fidelity Investments ’ C$7.9 billion
($7.7 billion) Canadian Bond Fund, has cut the amount of
provincial debt he holds to 24.8 percent from 25.7 percent two
months ago, according to the latest  filings . Pacific Investment
Management Co. dropped the allocation of provincial debt in its
Canadian Total Return Bond Fund to 40 percent in August, from 43
percent in May, its  website  shows.  “In an environment where rates are going to rise, you’d
rather be in the front end of the curve,” Andrew Kelvin, senior
fixed-income strategist in Toronto at TD Securities, a Toronto-Dominion Bank unit, said by phone. “This is collateral damage
as part of the broader government bond move insofar as
provincials trade in the longer part of the curve.”  Longest Duration  Borrowers led by Ontario and  Quebec , the nation’s two most
populous provinces, pushed average debt duration, a measure of
the securities’ price sensitivity to yield changes, to a record
this year to finance budget deficits when rates were low. The
two biggest issuers of Canada’s 10 provinces have raised C$23
billion of C$48 billion of planned issuance in the fiscal year
ending April 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Provincials have underperformed more because the duration
of the provincial component of the index is so much longer”
than other fixed-income assets, Miron said Sept. 12 in  New York 
at a Bloomberg Link conference. “That certainly is something we
take into account when we’re constructing the portfolio in terms
of where we want to allocate.”  The longer the duration, the more holders demand as
compensation for falling prices and rising yields.  The Fed will decide whether to start tapering $85 billion
in monthly bond purchases at a two-day meeting starting today.
U.S. central bankers will probably decide to slow purchases to
$80 billion, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Foreign Purchases  Elsewhere in credit markets, Toronto issued C$300 million
of 10-year notes yielding 3.935 percent.  Foreign investors bought a net C$3.64 billion of bonds
after a record divestment in June of C$19.1 billion, government
figures showed yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
investment-grade corporations rather than government debt
widened by one basis point to 125 basis points, from 124 at the
end of last week, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
 Canada  Corporate Index. Yields held steady at 3.41 percent
yesterday.  Federal debt has lost 3.4 percent this year. Canada’s
benchmark 10-year government bonds rose, pushing yields down one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.77 percent. The
price of the 1.5 percent securities maturing in June 2023 rose 8
cents to C$89.29 at 1:08 p.m. in Toronto.  ‘Current Situation’  The average duration of provincial debt has dropped since
hitting a peak of nine years in April, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data shows. It is now 8.3 years, compared with an average
seven years in the Canada Broad Market Index. Both Ontario and
Quebec have weighted-average debt maturities of 12 years.  “The current situation where we may in the future see
investors want a bit more shorter-term than longer term is not a
problem really with us,” Bernard Turgeon, associate deputy
minister at the Quebec Ministry of Finance, said Sept. 12 at the
Bloomberg Link conference. “Over the past few years we have
been able to lengthen the average maturity of our debt. So we
are comfortable if  interest rates  go up because it’s not a large
part of the debt that comes to maturity every year. The current
situation is not a source of preoccupation.”  The debt of Canadian provinces and local governments
remains the largest  holding  in Pimco’s Canadian Total Return
Bond Fund, overshadowing the 38 percent allocation to government
debt and 7 percent weighting in corporate credit.  Yield Premium  “I do not expect tapering to disproportionately affect
provincial bonds,” Ed Devlin, the London-based manager of the
fund, said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  Roland Lescure, chief investment officer at Caisse de Depot
et Placement du Quebec said his firm still favors provincial
securities because they are safe investments that offer extra
yield. He was also speaking in New York on Sept. 12 at the
Bloomberg Link conference.  Provincial bonds yield an average 73 basis points more than
federal debt, according to Merrill Lynch data. The debt of
Ontario, Canada’s largest provincial borrower, is rated Aa2 by
Moody’s Investors Service and AA- by  Standard & Poor’s , third
and fourth highest of 10 possible investment grades. Quebec is
rated Aa2 by Moody’s and a grade lower by S&P at A+.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  