-- Fisker Loan to Be Auctioned After Sale Prospects Wane
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-09-17T23:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/fisker-loan-to-be-auctioned-after-sale-prospects-wane.html
The U.S. Energy Department will
auction off Fisker Automotive Inc.’s unpaid loan balance to cut
its losses after concluding there’s no prospect of finding a
buyer for the dormant plug-in electric carmaker’s assets.  The agency, which disbursed $192 million to Fisker before
cutting off funding in June 2011, said today in a  blog  post that
it will require bidders to make a commitment to doing design and
engineering work in the U.S.  “After exhausting any realistic possibility for a sale
that might have protected our entire investment, the department
announced today that we are auctioning the remainder of Fisker’s
loan obligation, offering the best possible recovery for the
taxpayer,” Peter Davidson, executive director of the agency’s
loan program office, said in the post.  Fisker, based in Anaheim,  California , has about $168
million remaining on its loan after the Energy Department
recouped about $28 million from the company’s accounts after it
missed its first payment.  The auction will be held Oct. 11 with initial bids due Oct.
7, according to a posting on a government sales  website . The
posting notes “the loan is not presently performing.”  The Energy Department last month reopened the vehicle loan
program for business with about 60 percent of the program’s $25
billion remaining. Created by President  George W. Bush , this and
other Energy Department loan programs were criticized by
Republican lawmakers following the failure of solar-panel maker
Solyndra LLC.  Fisker’s Demise  “Not every investment and every company can succeed in
such a competitive environment,” Davidson wrote.  The department stopped loan disbursements to Fisker after
the company missed production milestones for its first model,
the $103,000 Karma. Most of the initial $529 million loan
commitment was to finance development of a second model at a
former General Motors plant in  Delaware . It was never produced.  Fisker’s car production ceased last year after its battery
supplier, then known as A123 Systems Inc., declared bankruptcy.
Most of Fisker’s unsold vehicles were destroyed by flooding
during Superstorm Sandy.  Fisker was one of five companies to receive loans under the
Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing program. Tesla Motors
Corp. in May repaid its $465 million loan in full nine years
early, and Nissan Motor Co. and  Ford Motor Co. (F) , which got the
largest loans in the program, are making regular payments.  The fifth company, wheelchair van maker Vehicle Production
Group, ceased operations earlier this year without making a
payment on its $50 million loan.  The loan program has advanced President  Barack Obama ’s goal
of having 1 million electric vehicles on the road by 2015.  Through August, sales of plug-in electric vehicles in the
U.S. rose to 58,000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with about 50,000 sold in all of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  