-- Fox Searchlight Can Appeal Ruling on Unpaid Internships
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-09-17T18:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/fox-searchlight-can-appeal-ruling-on-unpaid-internships.html
Fox Searchlight Pictures Inc. can
immediately appeal findings that some unpaid interns should have
been classified as employees and paid, a federal judge said.  U.S. District Judge William H. Pauley in  Manhattan  filed an
order today allowing the action. Pauley’s said his ruling in
June that internships must meet a strict test to be exempt from
minimum-wage laws conflicted with one by U.S. District Judge
Harold Baer Jr. in a similar case against publisher Hearst Corp.
and the differences should be addressed by a higher court.  “Application of a different standard from one adopted by
this court could result in the reversal of a final judgment,”
Pauley wrote. “It is the primary issue in determining
defendants’ liability.”  Pauley rejected Fox’s request to delay the case during the
appeal.  Former unpaid interns Eric Glatt and Alexander Footman sued
Los Angeles-based Fox Searchlight in 2011 saying they and other
interns should have been paid for their work. They performed
routine tasks such as making deliveries, organizing file
cabinets, making photocopies and taking lunch orders, they said.  Fox Searchlight obtained “an immediate advantage from
Glatt and Footman’s work,” Pauley said in June, citing a six-part test used by the U.S. Labor Department to determine whether
unpaid internships are legal. “Menial as it was, their work was
essential.”  Pauley’s decision allowing the case to proceed toward trial
helped spark other suits on behalf of unpaid interns.  The case is Glatt v. Fox Searchlight Pictures Inc., 1:11-cv-0684, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 