-- Gang Wars Hinder South Africa’s Bid to Tackle Crime Scourge
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-09-18T12:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/gang-wars-frustrate-south-africa-s-bid-to-tackle-crime-scourge.html
Shireen Alexander takes a break
from making French fries to point to bullet holes peppering the
cafe she runs from her home that’s been caught in the middle of
a three-month gang turf war in  Cape Town ’s Manenberg suburb.  She’s spent evenings huddled at the foot of her stairs with
her 18-year-old daughter as the Hard Livings and the Americans
gangs exchanged fire. Six bullets punctured her steel gate while
another came through the bedroom window and hit a prayer robe
she had hung up seconds earlier.  South African police estimate about 100,000 gang members
compete for turf and control of the drug trade in the Western
Cape province, the bulk of them in the urban sprawl on Cape
Town’s eastern outskirts known as the Cape Flats.  “They stand on my corner and they shoot,” Alexander, 50,
said in an Aug. 30 interview as she wiped her hands on her
black-and-red pinstripe apron. “It’s been the longest gang
fight we have ever had here. It was petrifying.”  The gang warfare is frustrating efforts to rein in crime in
a country where 15,609 homicides, or 30.9 per 100,000 people,
occurred in the year through March 2012, a rate that is more
than six times that of the U.S. South Africa’s Police Minister
Nathi Mthethwa will release the latest crime statistics tomorrow
in the capital,  Pretoria .  Preliminary police data shows Manenberg alone had 14
homicides and 56 attempted murders in the three months through
July, double the quarterly average over the past decade. While
the spike will only be reflected in next year’s statistics, the
upsurge in violence prompted Western Cape Premier  Helen Zille  to
call for the army to be deployed to restore calm.  Drugs Trade  The conflict forced the closure of 14 schools for two days
last month. Fighting has eased since Aug. 22 when church and
community groups brokered a truce and police stepped up raids
and patrols, making more than 1,200 arrests.  Zille, leader of South Africa’s main opposition party, the
 Democratic Alliance , blames the flare-up on gangsters trying to
assert control over the trade of drugs such as mandrax and
crystal methamphetamine, known locally as “tik,” before Hard
Livings leader Rashied Staggie’s release from a Cape Town prison
on parole on Sept. 23.  Staggie was jailed a decade ago for ordering the rape of a
teenager. The woman, who testified against him, was shot five
times by gunmen on July 30. She survived and is now in a witness
protection program.  The Staggie name made international headlines in 1996 when
television crews filmed Rashied’s twin brother, Rashaad, being
shot and burnt to death during a protest march staged by members
of a group known as People Against Gangsterism and Drugs.  Gang Vendettas  Hard Livings members deny the recent killings have anything
to do with Staggie.  “Four of our guys were shot dead; the youngsters took
revenge,” Sidney, a 55-year-old bearded Hard Livings veteran
who declined to give his surname, said in an interview on Aug.
23 as he sat on a wooden bench drinking a beer in a Manenberg
tavern with seven fellow gang members. “You can’t control them
any more. They smoke tik. It makes them super-people. This is
the monster.”  An Americans member, who wore a Manchester United football
team tracksuit top and knitted cap pulled down to his eyebrows,
said the tit-for-tat killings began after one of his gang stole
a mobile phone and was stabbed by a Hard Livings member.  Segregationist Rule  The Cape Flats was once a dumping ground for mixed-race
families evicted from areas reserved for whites by the
segregationist government that ruled for more than four decades
until 1994. The end of white-minority rule has changed little
for most residents of Manenberg’s dilapidated three-story
apartment blocks and cramped, ramshackle houses.  “Manenberg was built for 35,000 people in the 1960s,”
Mario Wanza, the chairman of Proudly Manenberg, a community
organization, said in an interview. “Today we have 150,000
people living on top of each other, people taking shifts to
sleep, people not having jobs, social decay. We are still
witnessing the last of apartheid.”  Youths wearing hooded sweatshirts and sneakers throng
Manenberg’s litter-strewn sidewalks, many of them sporting
tattoos that brand them members of the so-called numbers gangs,
the 26s, 27s and 28s, that operate in the country’s prisons.  No Jobs  “There’s no work,” Michael, a 30-year-old Hard Livings
member with gold-capped teeth who refused to give his surname,
said in an interview. “There’s no benefit in being a gangster.
I’ve got nothing else to do.”  Mthethwa blames the explosion of gangs and drugs on poverty
and broken families, and says Zille’s idea of deploying army
troops isn’t the solution.  “There appears to be such a lot of politics being played
in relation to how to intervene,” Chandre Gould, a researcher
at the Pretoria-based Institute for Security Studies, said in an
Aug. 29 phone interview. “For as long as you have a political
tussle going on it makes it very difficult to get a solution
that communities can believe in.”  South Africa  has boosted spending on safety and security,
bringing the  murder rate  down from 67.9 per 100,000 people in
1995, when an integrated national police force was created and
national statistics were compiled for the first time. Progress
has been stymied by a 25.6 percent  unemployment  rate that drives
many youths to crime.  Present Alternatives  “How can you have an administration that just pumps more
and more police into our community?” Wanza said. “It’s not the
solution, but they just persist. If you are born into crime and
violence, you are going to grow up into crime and violence. We
must present alternatives.”  Alexander, who was widowed a year ago after her husband
suffered  kidney failure , has no sympathy for the hoodlums who
repeatedly force her to shut her cafe and keep her daughter home
from school.  “I love living in Manenberg,” she said. “The people are
lovely people, we all know one another. But the gangsters are
just terrible. They feel nothing for nobody. They greet you and
then they stand with a gun and they shoot. It’s never going to
stop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  