-- German Stocks Fall Before Federal Reserve Holds Meeting
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-09-17T07:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/german-stocks-fall-before-federal-reserve-holds-meeting.html
German stocks  declined, after the
benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index yesterday reached a record, before the
Federal Reserve holds a policy meeting at which it may decide to
reduce its monthly bond purchases.  Continental AG (CON)  fell 3.8 percent as Schaeffler AG and its
holding company Schaeffler Verwaltungs GmbH sold a combined 4
percent stake in Europe’s second-largest car-parts maker.
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  retreated 1.8
percent and 1.1 percent, respectively, as data showed European
car sales resumed their decline in August.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
climbed 0.8 percent as UBS AG upgraded the shares.  The DAX lost 0.2 percent to 8,595.06 at 9:38 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The gauge rose 2.8 percent last week amid better-than-expected Chinese economic data and as U.S. President  Barack
Obama  delayed a decision on military action against Syria. The
broader HDAX Index also retreated 0.2 percent today.  The Federal Open Market Committee will probably decide in a
two-day policy meeting starting today to lower its $85 billion
of monthly bond purchases by $10 billion, according to the
median response of 34 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
earlier this month. That’s down from the forecast of a $20
billion reduction in a July survey.  Investor confidence  in Germany, Europe’s largest economy,
increased in September to the highest level since March,
 economists predicted . An index compiled by the ZEW Center for
European Economic Research, which aims to predict economic
developments six months in advance, probably rose to 45 from 42
in August, economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected before the
report at 11 a.m. in Mannheim.  German stocks  rose to a record yesterday after  Lawrence
Summers  withdrew from the race to succeed Ben S. Bernanke as
Federal Reserve chairman, clearing the way for Janet Yellen, who
investors say will favor slower paring of stimulus.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 9.2 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  