-- German Bonds Fall as Confidence Rises; Italy Outperforms Spain
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-09-17T15:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/germany-s-bonds-snap-gain-before-zew-investor-confidence-report.html
German 10-year  government bonds 
fell, pushing yields up from near the  lowest level  in two weeks,
after data showing investor confidence rose to a three-year high
sapped demand for the region’s safest assets.  Germany’s two-year notes snapped a four-day gain before the
nation auctions 5 billion euros ($6.68 billion) of the
securities tomorrow. Italian 10-year securities advanced,
outperforming similar-maturity Spanish debt, as a gauge of euro-area  investor confidence  increased to the most since 2009. The
 Federal Reserve  begins a two-day meeting in  Washington  at which
policy makers are forecast to begin reducing stimulus.  “It’s a good sign for German economic developments,” said
Ralf Umlauf, head of floor research at Helaba Hessen-Thueringen
in  Frankfurt . “We still believe that the Fed meeting tomorrow
is overshadowing the market reactions because people are staying
on the sidelines until after that. Tapering will be a burden on
fixed-income markets.”  Germany ’s 10-year yield increased four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 1.97 percent at 4:24 p.m. London time
after falling to 1.92 percent yesterday, the lowest since Sept.
3. The 2 percent bund maturing in August 2023 dropped 0.33, or
3.30 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 100.23.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of German investor and analyst expectations,
which aims to predict economic developments six months in
advance, rose to 49.6 in September from 42 in August. That was
the highest level since April 2010. Economists predicted a
reading of 45, according to a Bloomberg News  survey . An
indicator of euro-area investor  confidence  increased to 58.6
from 44, the highest since September 2009.  Italy, Spain  Italy ’s 10-year yield declined five basis points to 4.40
percent, dropping more than the rate on similar-maturity Spanish
debt, which fell one basis point to 4.41 percent.  Italian 10-year yields rose above those of  Spain  for the
first time in 18 months last week amid speculation a vote on
whether to expel  Silvio Berlusconi  from Italy’s Senate will
destabilize the coalition government. The first vote on
Berlusconi’s mandate is due to take place in  Rome  tomorrow.  As recently as July investors demanded a yield premium of
42 basis points to hold Spanish 10-year bonds instead of
Italy’s.  Fed Tapering  The Fed will reduce its asset purchases to $75 billion a
month from $85 billion after its meeting ends tomorrow,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists on Sept. 6.  Europe’s government bonds advanced yesterday as  Lawrence Summers  withdrew from the race to be the next Fed chairman,
spurring bets the U.S. central bank will be slower to reduce
stimulus. The former  Treasury secretary  would have tightened
central bank policy more than Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen ,
who was his main rival to replace Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
according to a Bloomberg Global Poll conducted last week.
Bernanke’s term ends on Jan. 31.  “It’s going to be a tricky trading environment until we
get the Fed,” said  Michael Leister , a senior rates strategist
at Commerzbank AG in London. “Spreads at multi-year lows are
going to run into some trouble because the improvement in the
macroeconomic environment has been priced in. The spreads are
probably as tight as they can get.”  The additional yield investors demand to hold Italian
securities instead of German bunds narrowed eight basis points
to 2.43 percentage points. The spread shrank to 2.27 percentage
points in August, the lowest level since July 2011.  German Auction  Germany plans to sell 5 billion euros of notes due in
September 2015 tomorrow. The nation last sold the securities on
Aug. 21 at an  average yield  of 0.23 percent, the highest at an
auction since March 2012.  The notes “offer limited relative value,” Citigroup Inc.
strategists Mohit Aggarwal and Aman Bansa wrote in a note to
clients. “However, it is likely to attract demand” because of
the increase in yields, they wrote.  German two-year note yields were little changed at 0.22
percent after reaching 0.34 percent on Sept. 5, the most since
March 2012.  Volatility on Austrian bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of Italy and Spain, according
to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between two- and
10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  German bonds lost 2.3 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Italian securities
returned 3.4 percent and Spain’s earned 8.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  