-- Giants at 0-2 Among NFL Teams With Low Odds of Playoff Run
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-17T12:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/giants-among-nfl-s-0-2-teams-eyeing-9-chance-of-making-playoffs.html
The  New York Giants  have a
difficult road to the National Football League playoffs just two
weeks into the season, as only 8.8 percent of 0-2 teams
recovered to make the postseason in the past 11 years.  Under the NFL’s 12-team playoff format instituted in 1990,
only 8 percent of postseason teams (22 of 276) started with an
0-2 record. Since the NFL’s divisional realignment in 2002, just
eight of the 91 teams to lose their first two games of a season
fought back to earn a playoff berth.  “In this situation you’ve got to have a little sense of
urgency,” said Giants quarterback  Eli Manning , who has thrown
seven interceptions in his team’s two losses. “If you make it a
must-win, sometimes you need to be put in those situations.”  The Giants have been here before.  In 2007, they lost their first two games and then rallied
behind Manning to make the postseason with a 10-6 record before
winning three straight road playoff games and upsetting the 18-0
 New England Patriots  in the  Super Bowl .  The 2001 Patriots and 1993  Dallas Cowboys  also started 0-2
before recovering to win Super Bowl titles.  This season, the Giants are among eight NFL teams to lose
their first two games, along with the  Washington Redskins ,
 Minnesota Vikings ,  Carolina Panthers , Tampa Bay Buccaneers,
Cleveland Browns, Jacksonville Jaguars and Pittsburgh Steelers.  The Giants, who have fewer yards rushing (73) than points
allowed (77) in their first 0-2 start since 2007, next visit the
Panthers on Sept. 22 in a matchup of winless clubs.  “I don’t think we’re playing with the excitement, the
enthusiasm,” Giants safety Antrel Rolle told reporters
yesterday. “What it looks like from the sideline, and outside
looking in, it seems like sometimes we’re in it, sometimes we’re
not. I don’t know the reason for that.”  Dwindling Odds  The odds of a championship for this year’s 0-2 teams have
dwindled considerably. The Giants have 40-1 odds to win the
Super Bowl after entering the season at 25-1.  “It is a tough hole,” Las Vegas Hotel Super Book
assistant manager  Jeff Sherman  said in an e-mail. “The only
fortunate thing for the Giants and Redskins is the NFC East
doesn’t look overwhelming early on.”  The Redskins have moved to 50-1 from 30-1, while the
Vikings and Buccaneers have both gone to 200-1 from 60-1.  “It’s not the end of the world, there’s still a lot of
football to be played,” said Redskins cornerback DeAngelo Hall,
who a year ago helped Washington make the playoffs after a 3-6
start. “We’ve been in situations like this before and we know
how to fight back out of it. That’s the good part of the guys in
this locker room, we know we can.”  Over the past four years, none of the 30 teams to start a
season 0-2 has reached the playoffs.  Last Three  In 2008, three of the NFL’s 11 clubs that were winless two
weeks into the season rallied to make the playoffs: the Vikings,
 Miami Dolphins  and  San Diego Chargers . They were the last 0-2
teams to reach the postseason.  “We know where we are,” said Vikings coach  Leslie Frazier , whose team is at home against the 0-2 Browns this week
after two road losses. “It’s a long season. I’m not looking at
what’s happening around the NFL other than what we’re doing. We
need to get on track and get it going this week.”  Manning said he’s encouraged about the prospects of a
turnaround because the other three teams in the  National
Football Conference ’s East division are 1-1 or 0-2. Only one of
the other seven divisions doesn’t have a team that’s 2-0.  “We have hope just because I feel like we’re doing some
decent things,” said Manning, 32. “We’ve got to get better,
but I think we will. The season is very early. We’ve got to play
better football and find a way to get a win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  