-- Goldman Market-Shock Test, ECB Change, Lloyds: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-09-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/goldman-market-shock-test-ecb-change-lloyds-compliance.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said it
could survive a global market shock that would send stocks down
almost 40 percent and produce $20 billion in trading losses for
the firm.  Goldman Sachs would maintain a Tier 1 common ratio of at
least 8.9 percent during the shock, above the 5 percent minimum,
the New York-based firm said in a disclosure of its company-run
stress test. The test included the assumption of a
“reputational event” specific to Goldman Sachs that would
reduce its revenue over the nine-quarter length of the exam.  The biggest U.S. banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Bank of America Corp. , must conduct so-called mid-cycle stress
tests using their own scenarios and disclose a summary of the
results.  Goldman Sach’s performance in its own test topped that in
the Federal Reserve’s version in March, in which it had a
minimum Tier 1 common ratio of 5.8 percent. The Fed’s test had
different assumptions and covered a different time period.  The firm projected it would have a $6.2 billion net loss
over the nine quarters from April 2013 to June 2015 in a
“severely adverse scenario.” It would have $15.5 billion of
pre-provision net revenue in the period, overwhelmed by $20
billion in trading and counterparty losses, $1.1 billion in
other losses and a $600 million provision for loan losses.  Separately,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank by
assets, could incur $21.2 billion of losses over nine quarters
through mid-2015 and stay above minimum regulatory capital
levels in a severe financial downturn.  The bank’s Tier 1 common capital ratio would fall to as low
as 9.1 percent under a severely adverse scenario, above the 5
percent minimum set by U.S. regulators, the New York-based
company said yesterday in a  presentation  on its website.  Citigroup’s figures assume $43.1 billion in pre-provision
net revenue and an equal amount of loan losses in the nine
quarters from the end of March 2013 through June 2015.  Separately,  Bank of America  saw Tier 1 capital ratio under
its stress test at June 30, 2015, at 10.6 percent, according to
a statement posted on its website.  Compliance Policy  Bundesbank Says ECB Bank Oversight May Need Primary-Law Change  European Union lawmakers will probably have to amend the
rules governing the European Central Bank as it embarks on the
complex task of regulating banks, according to the Bundesbank.  Sabine Lautenschlaeger, vice president of the German
central bank, said in  Frankfurt  yesterday that a “primary law
change” may be needed to simplify the governance structure and
“separate monetary policy more clearly from banking
supervision.”  The ECB is set to oversee banks, starting next year, as
part of an effort to create a banking union that would break the
link between lenders and states, which spawned the sovereign
debt crisis. Critics say the move may create a conflict of
interest at the central bank as policy makers are charged with
guaranteeing the stability of Europe’s financial sector while
fighting inflation.  The Bundesbank vice president said her concerns don’t mean
she favors delaying plans for more concerted controls of
European lenders.  Kenyan Bourse Authority Completes Draft Rules for Futures Trade  Draft regulations, aimed at creating a fair and efficient
futures exchange, are open for public comment until Oct. 17, the
Capital Markets Authority, the regulator for  Kenya ’s Bourse,
said in an e-mailed statement.  “The development of the two draft regulations bring to
completion the requisite regulatory framework for the
establishment of a futures market in Kenya,” the authority said
in the statement.  Plans to set-up a futures market in Kenya have been delayed
since at least 2009.  Compliance Action  U.K. to Sell $5.3 Billion Lloyds Stake, Five Years After Bailout  The U.K. government plans to sell a 3.3 billion-pound ($5.3
billion) stake in  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , its first disposal
since bailing out the lender in 2008.  U.K. Financial Investments Ltd., which oversees the
government’s holding in the bank, is selling 4.28 billion shares
to money managers, the London-based body said in a statement
yesterday.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne, constrained by
the biggest austerity program since World War II, could use the
proceeds to fund tax cuts or more spending before the next
general election, due in 2015. He has said  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , which received a 45.5 billion-pound bailout,
is still burdened by too many poor assets to be sold.  The transaction will reduce the Treasury’s stake in Lloyds
to 32.7 percent from 38.7 percent. JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Bank of
America Corp.  and UBS AG are managing the offering, according to
a statement from UKFI. The government still owns 81 percent of
Edinburgh-based RBS.  The Lloyds sale is the government’s biggest since the
financial crisis.  For more, click here.  HSBC Joins Morgan Stanley in Plan to Screen for Money Laundering  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Morgan Stanley are working with
outside firms to develop a shared client-screening service amid
a crackdown by regulators on money laundering.  Genpact Ltd. (G)  and Markit Group Ltd. are creating the
service, which will help banks satisfy so-called know-your-client requirements, Hamilton, Bermuda-based Genpact said
yesterday in a statement. The service will allow banks to start
new trading relationships faster and cut costs by sharing
 expenses , according to the statement.  The U.S. fined London-based HSBC $1.9 billion last year
over claims the lender gave terrorists and drug cartels access
to the U.S. financial system. Europe’s biggest bank was accused
of failing to monitor more than $670 billion in wire transfers
and more than $9.4 billion in purchases of U.S. currency from
HSBC  Mexico , prosecutors said.  HSBC accepted responsibility at the time and said it’s “a
fundamentally different organization from the one that made
those mistakes.”  New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s largest
brokerage, hasn’t faced fines over money laundering since the
financial crisis.  Regulators have ordered U.S. banks including Citigroup Inc.
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to tighten their controls.  Courts  RBS Said to Settle Highland Suits Over $100 Million CDO Losses  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  settled lawsuits with
Highland Capital Management LP over a failed debt deal that led
to accusations of fraud and dishonesty, and losses of as much as
$100 million, a person familiar with the cases said.  The settlement ends a four-year legal battle with lawsuits
in  London  and  Texas  between RBS and Dallas-based Highland. The
terms are confidential, according to the person, who asked not
to be identified because they weren’t authorized to discuss it.  Highland said it lost as much as $100 million when RBS
terminated a planned 500 million-euro ($668 million)
collateralized-debt obligation at the height of the 2008
financial crisis and then seized the underlying loans.  The Edinburgh-based lender is being sued by as many as
16,000 investors over a 2008 share offering before its collapse
in the 2008 financial crisis, as well as other claims from
customers.  Stefan Prelog, a spokesman for Highland in New York,
declined to comment on the settlement. A spokeswoman for RBS in
London declined to comment.  The U.K. case is The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc v. Highland
Financial Partners LP & Ors, U.K. Court of Appeal (Civil
Division) A3/2012/1474.  Wabco Wins $272 Million Cut in EU Cartel Fine for Ideal Standard  Wabco Holdings Inc. (WBC)  won a 203.4 million euro ($272 million)
windfall after a European Union court cut the antitrust penalty
it paid for Ideal Standard’s involvement in a bathroom fittings
cartel.  The EU General Court in Luxembourg also trimmed Sanitec
Corp.’s fine to 50.6 million euros from 57.7 million euros.
Wabco was liable for the original fine as part of an accord
linked to its spinoff from American Standard Cos. that predated
the EU penalties.  The court said yesterday that EU regulators had wrongly
held Ideal Standard guilty of colluding on the Italian market
for ceramics for longer than was the case.  Wabco paid all of the 326.1 million-euros fine levied in
September 2010 “and will keep the full amount of the
reimbursement” awarded by the EU court yesterday, the company
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Sanitec, owned by EQT Partners AB, said in a statement it
had made a provisional payment of 57.69 million euros in
September 2010. It now expects to be reimbursed the difference
plus interest.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the commission in
Brussels, said the ruling “confirms the substantial findings”
of the regulator.  The cases are: T-412/10, T-411/10, T-408/10, T-396/10,
T-386/10, T-380/10, T-379/10, T-381/10, T-378/10, T-376/10,
T-375/10, T-373/10, T-374/10, T-382/10, T-402/10, T-368/10,
T-364/10.  Interviews  Miller Says Another Lehman-Like Crisis ‘Very Possible’  Harvey Miller, a partner at Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP, and
David Resnick, president of Third Avenue Management LLC, talked
about banking regulation the prospects for another financial
crisis.  Miller and Resnick, speaking with  Erik Schatzker  and
 Stephanie Ruhle  on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers,”
also discuss Lawrence Summers’s withdrawal as a candidate for
Federal Reserve chairman.  For the video, click here.  FDIC’s Bair Says Financial Regulations Benefit Families  Sheila Bair, the former chairman of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., and author of “Bull by the Horns,” discussed
banking regulation and preventing the next financial crisis.  In her book, she does not “hold back,” in describing
policy differences that arose during the financial crisis. She
also touched on the topic of her forthcoming book.  Bair talked with Bloomberg’s Pimm Fox and  Carol Massar  on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Taking Stock” on September 13th.  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  