-- Gold Drops Fifth Time in Six Days on Slow U.S. Inflation
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-09-17T18:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/gold-fluctuates-as-investors-weigh-stimulus-before-fed-meets.html
Gold declined for the fifth time in
six sessions as a government report showed the cost of living in
the U.S. rose less than forecast, crimping the appeal of the
precious metal as a hedge against inflation.  The consumer-price index rose 0.1 percent in August from
July, the Labor Department said today. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey called for a 0.2 percent gain. Federal Reserve
officials meet today and tomorrow, when policy makers are
forecast to cut monthly bond buying by $10 billion to $75
billion, according to a Bloomberg survey. Gold has fallen 22
percent this year as bets that the Fed will slow stimulus curbed
demand.  “With less-than-expected growth in CPI numbers, the appeal
of gold as an inflation hedge is diminished,” Phil Streible, a
senior commodity broker at R.J. O’Brien & Associates in  Chicago ,
said in a telephone interview. “Tomorrow’s extent of reduction
in the stimulus will be very crucial for  gold prices .”  Gold futures for December delivery slipped 0.6 percent to
settle at $1,309.40 at 1:40  p.m. on the Comex in New York.
Yesterday, the precious metal slumped to $1,302.70, the lowest
since Aug. 8.  Bullion is headed for the largest annual decline since 1981
as some investors lost faith in the metal amid an equity rally
and low inflation.  “Our U.S. economists’ expectations for a ‘dovish’ taper
and gold’s recent decline will likely limit the downside,”
Damien Courvalin and  Jeffrey Currie , analysts at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., said in a report dated yesterday. “A more hawkish
taper than we currently expect would likely precipitate a
decline in gold prices.”  Resume Drop  Gold will resume its drop heading into 2014 on expectations
that economic data will confirm acceleration in U.S. growth and
require a less accommodative monetary policy, according to
Goldman, which maintained its forecast for prices to reach
$1,050 at the end of next year.  Silver futures for December delivery slipped 1 percent to
$21.784 an ounce in New York.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
October delivery fell 1.3 percent to $1,422.40 an ounce.  Palladium futures for December delivery rose 0.1 percent to
$706.95 an ounce, the fourth straight gain and the longest rally
since Aug. 16.  Trading was 48 percent lower than the average in the past
100 days for this time of day, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  