-- Goldcorp Chairman Telfer Agrees to Settle With Regulator
-- B y   A n d y   H o f f m a n
-- 2013-09-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/goldcorp-chairman-telfer-agrees-to-settlement-with-canada-s-osc.html
Goldcorp (G)  Inc. Chairman Ian Telfer
reached a deal with  Canada ’s main financial regulator to settle
allegations that he violated securities laws.  The Ontario Securities Commission will hold a hearing on
Sept. 20 on whether to approve the settlement, the OSC said
yesterday in a  statement . The terms of the accord and what, if
any, penalties or sanctions Telfer has agreed to weren’t
disclosed.  Telfer said he would be able to continue his duties as
Goldcorp chairman when asked yesterday in a telephone interview.
He declined further comment. Telfer’s lawyer, Joseph Groia,
didn’t immediately respond to messages seeking comment.  Telfer, 67, was included in an OSC  statement  of allegations
in February 2012 regarding an alleged insider-trading scheme
involving at least eight people. The OSC alleged he acted
“contrary to the public interest. Telfer, who is also chairman
of  Uranium One Inc. (UUU) , had previously denied any wrongdoing.  The backdrop to the OSC’s case is the financing of mining
startups on Bay Street, Toronto’s financial center, where more
money is raised for the industry via stock sales than in any
other city in the world. Telfer is one of Canadian mining’s most
prominent figures, having helped create six publicly traded
companies with a market value of more than $1 billion, including
Vancouver-based Goldcorp, the biggest gold producer by market
capitalization,  Silver Wheaton Corp. (SLW)  and  New Gold Inc. (NGD)   President’s List  In its 2012 statement of allegations, the OSC said Eda
Marie Agueci, an executive assistant to Eugene McBurney,
chairman of Toronto brokerage and investment-banking firm GMP
Securities LP, was the central figure in the illegal insider-tipping and trading scheme. The scheme involved at least eight
other people and yielded about C$962,000 ($934,000) in profits,
the OSC said.  While the OSC said Telfer didn’t participate in the scheme,
it accused him of helping Agueci disguise her beneficial
ownership of securities. It also alleged that Telfer advised
Agueci, a close friend, on how to circumvent the monitoring of
her e-mail by GMP compliance staff.  A key element of the OSC’s allegations against the Goldcorp
chairman involved his practice of awarding the right to buy
shares in his startup companies to friends and family through
private stock placements. The so-called president’s lists would
often include acquaintances at brokerage and investment banks
and their relatives.  ‘Secret Account’  Those on the lists were able to buy shares in dormant shell
companies before it became more widely known that Telfer and
others planned to use those companies as publicly traded
vehicles for new mining or resource ventures. Being placed on
the list provided the potential, though not a guarantee, for
significant investment returns.  According to the OSC allegations, Telfer placed Agueci’s
brother-in-law, Santo Iacono, on a list of people eligible to
buy shares in a dormant shell company called 222 Pizza Express
Corp. Iacono purchased 500,000 shares of 222 Pizza Express for
C$5,000 in April 2008, according to the regulator.  The OSC alleged the stock was then transfered to a ‘‘secret
account,” where half of the shares were held for the benefit of
Agueci. The shares yielded a return of more than C$500,000 after
Pizza Express was renamed Gold Wheaton Gold Corp. and
reorganized into a company that purchases and sells byproduct
gold from operating mines, according to the OSC.  The OSC alleges that Telfer and Agueci “agreed that the
shares shouldn’t be purchased in Agueci’s name in order to
ensure the secrecy of the transaction.”  Disclosure Obligations  The regulator said Telfer knew or should have known that
Agueci, as a GMP employee, had disclosure obligations, trading
restrictions and was prohibited from engaging in undisclosed
securities transactions.  Among the potential penalties Telfer faces in the case is a
suspension from serving as an officer or director of a public
company.  Agueci was suspended from GMP after the OSC made its
allegations against her in 2012. Her lawyer, James Douglas, said
by phone yesterday he didn’t have instructions to speak to the
media about the case. Mark Polley, the lawyer representing Santo
Iacono, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Hoffman in Geneva at 
 ahoffman31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  