-- Goldman-to-Soros Backed Mortgage Insurer Essent Files for IPO
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-17T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/goldman-to-soros-backed-mortgage-insurer-essent-files-for-ipo.html
Essent Group Ltd., the mortgage
insurer backed by investors including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and  George Soros , filed for an initial public offering as
investors pour capital into companies that guaranty home loans.  Goldman Sachs,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Barclays Plc are
managing the share sale, Bermuda-based Essent said yesterday in
a regulatory filing. The proposed $287.5 million offering size
is a placeholder amount used to calculate registration fees and
may change. The prospectus didn’t include information about the
insurer’s implied valuation.  Mortgage insurers have rallied this year as the U.S.
residential real estate market rebounds and the government
weighs scaling back its role in housing finance.  MGIC Investment
Corp. (MTG)  and Radian Group Inc. sold stock and notes this year to
rebuild capital. Losses had mounted at the companies as
homeowners defaulted during the housing slump, triggering
payouts on policies sold prior to the crash.  Essent was created “to serve the U.S. housing finance
industry at a time when the demands of the financial crisis and
a rapidly changing business environment created the need for a
new, privately funded mortgage insurance company,” the firm
said in the filing. Its mortgage guarantee unit was formed in
late 2008.  The following year, Essent agreed to pay as much as $30
million for software and other assets from Triad Guaranty Inc.,
a mortgage insurer hobbled by losses from soured home loans.
Competitor PMI Group Inc. ceased writing new coverage and filed
for bankruptcy in 2011.  Essent’s Expansion  As those companies stopped writing new business, Essent
expanded. The firm accounted for 9.2 percent of coverage sales
in the first six months of this year, up from 5.2 percent a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Inside Mortgage Finance.  The insurer posted net income of $30.8 million in the six
months ended June 30, compared with a net loss of $12.5 million
a year earlier, according to the filing. Premium revenue more
than tripled from the same period in 2012, as losses and
expenses were almost unchanged.  Proceeds from the offering may be used for “capital
contributions to support the growth of our insurance
subsidiaries,” according to the filing.  Essent’s investors include New York-based Goldman Sachs and
Valorina LLC, which is majority owned by an entity that’s
managed by Soros Fund Management LLC, according to the filing.
The company is planning to list its shares on the  New York  Stock
Exchange under the ticker ESNT.  Mortgage insurers may benefit as the U.S. retools the
housing-finance system. President  Barack Obama  said in a speech
last month the government should play a smaller role covering
soured home loans and that private capital should take more risk
as  Freddie Mac  and  Fannie Mae  are wound down.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  