-- GSO Drawn to Mortgage Servicing as Banks Retreating
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-09-17T14:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/gso-drawn-to-mortgage-servicing-as-banks-retreating.html
Private-equity firms and  hedge
funds  are increasing their control of the rights to collect
America’s monthly mortgage payments, an almost $10 trillion
market that banks are retreating from amid looming regulations.  Servicing rights, or MSRs, on at least $1 trillion of
mortgages will trade in the next two years, said Jay Bray, chief
executive officer of  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM) , a
servicer majority owned by  Fortress Investment Group LLC. (FIG)  The
private equity firm said in July it raised a new $1.1 billion
fund to buy the contracts. GSO Capital Partners LP, the credit
arm of Blackstone Group LP, announced last week it helped form a
company targeting the assets after  Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO) ,
a real estate investment trust, started buying the contracts in
the second quarter.  “Now’s a good opportunity for banks to scale back,” said
David Stephens, chief operating officer of United Capital
Markets Inc., a broker-dealer that helps investors manage the
risk of owning the contracts. “Buyers have come into the market
from private equity, hedge funds and REITs.”  The value of servicing rights has jumped to about 1.25
percent of the loan principal from 0.75 percent a year ago,
according to Stephens. In addition to a widening pool of buyers,
rising  mortgage rates  have also boosted their appeal since
higher costs discourage borrowers from  refinancing . This
prolongs the length of the servicing contract. A reduction in
new mortgages also constricts the supply of new rights.  “The ice cube melts slower,” Stephens said.  Balances Decline  The balance on mortgages handled by servicers declined to
$9.81 trillion in the second quarter from a high of $11.2
trillion in the first quarter of 2008, as more Americans paid
down debt or lost property to foreclosure, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg from Inside Mortgage Finance.  Origination is also slowing. Since mortgage rates rose from
near record lows in May when the  Federal Reserve  signaled it was
preparing to reduce stimulus efforts, refinancing has dropped
more than 70 percent and applications for purchase loans dropped
17 percent, data from the Mortgage Bankers Association show.  A slowdown in mortgage activity and rising demand for MSRs
is encouraging more banks to weigh sales.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the
largest mortgage servicer with $1.85 trillion in collection
rights, is putting rights on $41 billion of government-backed
home loans on the market, according to two people briefed on the
process.  Customer Complaints  Home-loan servicing has prompted customer complaints and
regulatory probes of poor treatment by banks overwhelmed with
record-high foreclosures. Federal and state investigations of
foreclosure practices led to new regulations that drove up costs
and last year the five largest bank-servicers -- Wells Fargo,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
 Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  -- paid $25 billion to settle a government
probe of servicing misconduct without admitting guilt.  Banks accelerated sales last year with the bankrupt
servicer Residential Capital LLC, a unit of Ally, selling a $374
billion portfolio to  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)  and Walter Investment
Management Corp. for a joint $3 billion bid.  Bank of America sold rights to more than $200 billion this
year and OneWest Bank FSB said in June it has agreed to sell $78
billion.  Servicing Costs  “Most of the portfolios that have been transferred were
due to either bankruptcy, in the case of ResCap, or due to the
cost of servicing delinquent loans and the capacity of banks to
handle large levels of delinquent loans,” Kevin Barker, an
analyst with Compass Point Research & Trading LLC, said in a
telephone interview from  Washington .  Banks also are facing pending regulations as part of the
international financial agreement known as Basel III, which
limits the amount of capital banks can risk on servicing rights.  Wells Fargo Chief Financial Officer Tim Sloan said last
week the San Francisco-based bank will sell MSRs in coming
quarters as a risk-management practice. Wells Fargo generated
$393 million in the second quarter from the business. The bank
doesn’t have “a lot of pressure” on its capital levels, Sloan
said.  The $41 billion sale is for rights to government-, or
agency-backed home loans, those guaranteed by  Fannie Mae ,
 Freddie Mac  and Ginnie Mae, according to one of the people, both
of whom asked for anonymity because they weren’t authorized to
speak publicly about the transaction.  The contracts relate to borrowers Wells Fargo identifies as
“non-core” because they have few other products from the bank,
the other person said. Tom Goyda, a company spokesman, declined
to comment on specific deals.  Wholesale Change  The transfer of rights for large-scale, non-distressed
portfolios of agency-backed mortgages “would be a wholesale
change to the transfer of mortgage servicing rights that have
occurred over the last three years,” Compass Point’s Barker
said.  Demand from non-bank buyers has increased the value of
servicing rights on bank balance sheets. The value of Wells
Wells Fargo’s servicing rights jumped to 81 basis points at the
end of June from 67 basis points at the end of last year,
according to Barker.  Blackstone’s GSO, which manages about $62 billion of
assets, is one of the latest entrants seeking to capitalize on
the regulatory changes. Along with EJF Capital LLC and Arbor
Commercial Mortgage LLC, the New York-based debt investor formed
Seneca Mortgage Investments LP to buy servicing rights.  Fortress Fund  Seneca will target “opportunities arising from the
comprehensive changes across the residential mortgage
business,” according to a Sept. 12 statement. Erica Mileo, a
spokeswoman for Seneca, declined to comment.  Fortress closed its MSR Opportunities Fund II to new
investors in July after reaching $1.1 billion, according to a
statement last month. The fund is a successor to a $600 million
fund that closed in August of last year, said Gordon Runte, a
Fortress managing director.  The firm is already deeply embedded in the mortgage market.
It owns Nationstar, a loan originator and servicer that has
rights to collect on $318 billion in residential loans as of
June 30, triple its portfolio at the end of 2011, according to
John Hoffmann, a spokesman.  New Residential Investment Corp., a spinoff of New York-based Fortress’s Newcastle Investment Corp., spent $180 million
on rights for a $23 billion portfolio of agency pools for the
quarter ending June 30, according to a statement.  Interest Only  Two Harbors, a Minnesota, Minnesota-based mortgage REIT
managed by hedge fund Pine River Capital Management LP, began
investing in rights to agency-backed mortgages in the second
quarter and closed “two small bulk transactions in July,” CEO
Thomas Siering said during an Sept. 10 investors conference in
 New York .  Two Harbors is buying rights to generate interest-only
revenue as a hedge against other mortgage-market investments
rather than to make money servicing the loans, Siering said.  “It’s not our desire to be in the origination business or
to actually service the MSRs, but rather be a capital partner to
those who do originate and do service,” he said.  Partners like Two Harbors open opportunities for banks to
sell the rights while continuing to service the mortgages, a
“work around” for Basel III, according to  Rick Sharga ,
executive vice president of Auction.com. Banks can add liquidity
by unloading servicing rights, eliminate some risk and then, if
they get a subservicing contract, get paid to continue to do the
same work, he said.  Basel Requirements  “That’s not a bad deal if you can pull it off,” Sharga
said in a telephone interview. “It’s probably something we
wouldn’t have seen absent Basel III requirements. But in an odd
way, it has a certain logic to it.”  While banks sold off portfolios with high delinquency
rates, they also sought to retain or acquire pools with high-quality borrowers who provide steady payments at little cost.  “As part of our strategy to strengthen and grow our
servicing business, we continually look at opportunities to buy
and sell mortgage servicing rights,”  Amy Bonitatibus , a
spokeswoman for JPMorgan, the second-largest servicer with $1.06
trillion in collection rights, said in an e-mail. She declined
to answer specific questions on the bank’s plans for the unit,
which generated $133 million in pre-tax revenue for the quarter
ending June 30, according to a filing.  Private equity firms are buying because they can earn as
much as 9 percent, more than many other mortgage assets, said
Dan Thomas, managing director of MIAC Analytics, a broker in New
York.  “It’s a much stronger market than it was a year ago
because of the private equity guys,” said Thomas. “It took
them awhile to get their ducks in a row. This isn’t the same as
buying a security. You have to have the infrastructure in place
to take on the operation or a sub-servicer lined up to do it for
you.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban in New York at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  