-- Li Ka-shing Says Hong Kong May Lose Out to Shanghai
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-09-18T03:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/li-ka-shing-says-hong-kong-may-lose-out-to-shanghai-rthk.html
Li Ka-shing , Asia’s richest man,
said Hong Kong needs to raise its competitiveness if it wants to
avoid losing out to  Shanghai , where China is setting up a free
trade zone, Radio Television Hong Kong reported.  Li, the 85-year-old chairman of Hong Kong-based  Cheung Kong
Holdings Ltd. (1)  and  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , said the Shanghai free
trade zone “will affect Hong Kong heavily,” RTHK  reported  on
its website, citing comments Li made at a briefing yesterday.  The zone may allow freer yuan convertibility, liberalize
interest rates and relax restrictions on foreign investment,
which may threaten Hong Kong’s status as China’s biggest
financial center. The former British colony risks falling behind
its rivals if citizens there don’t start rallying behind Chief
Executive Leung Chun-ying, a Chinese official said yesterday.  “ China  is a big market and in the long term it can’t just
rely on Hong Kong as its only hub,” said Kevin Lai, a Hong
Kong-based economist at Daiwa Capital Markets Ltd. “I worry
more about the deteriorating political environment in Hong Kong
than about Shanghai establishing a free-trade zone.”  Leung’s government has increasingly been drawn into a
debate about the speed of electoral reform, as opposition
lawmakers press for the open nomination of candidates for the
election of Hong Kong’s next leader in 2017, rather than by
committee as legislated.  Economy Focus  Li said that Occupy Central, the movement proposed by some
civic groups to pressure the Hong Kong government into
accelerating the introduction of full democracy, may damage the
economy and the city’s reputation as a financial center,
according to the RTHK report.  Hong Kong residents should focus on the economy rather than
politics, as  Singapore  leapfrogs the Chinese city as a financial
center by many measures, the Standard newspaper reported today,
citing remarks made to a business delegation by Wang Guangya,
director of the Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office.  The city should give more support to Leung, he said.  Still, Hong Kong won’t lose out even as the Chinese
government supports cities including Shanghai, Wang said
yesterday, according to Chan Wing-kee, a member of the business
delegation.  “People have talked about Hong Kong facing competition
from Shanghai for many years,” said Daiwa’s Lai. “Hong Kong’s
advantages won’t change too much in the coming five to ten years
because it has unique characteristics such as good rule of
law.”  Trade Zone  Shanghai’s free-trade zone may liberalize 19 industries
from banking to shipping and allow freer convertibility of the
 yuan , according to a draft plan seen by Bloomberg News. The
government hasn’t released details of what the area will offer
or how long it may take for the policies to be implemented.  Detailed guidelines won’t be announced with the official
start of the zone at the end of the month, and would be released
later, China Daily said today, citing Kuai Zhenxian, an
economist with Shanghai Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone Development
Co.  The trade zone, which may push forward China’s goal of
making Shanghai a global financial center by 2020, will help
improve the country’s competitiveness, World Bank President Jim Yong Kim said this month. China’s economy expanded 7.7 percent
last year, the slowest since 1999.  New Pudong  An opening ceremony for the 29-square kilometer (18-square
mile) free-trade area will probably take place at the end of
this month and will be attended by Premier Li Keqiang, two
people with knowledge of the matter said last week. The zone is
located in the eastern side of the Pudong New Area along the
Yangtze River.  Li Ka-shing said yesterday he won’t move Cheung Kong and
Hutchison Whampoa away from Hong Kong, RTHK reported. Asked
about the sale of ParknShop, one of Hong Kong’s two biggest
supermarket chains, Li said it was a “commercial decision.”  Hutchison Whampoa, Li’s biggest company, last month
received at least eight offers for ParknShop, according to
people with knowledge of the process.  Hong Kong’s  home prices  have more than doubled since early
2009 and are highest among major global cities, according to a
 Savills Plc (SVS)  report in March. The government has imposed measures
including extra taxes on foreign property buyers and higher
mortgage down payment requirements as it seeks to reduce the
risk of an asset bubble.  Li, whose Cheung Kong is the city’s second-biggest
developer by market value, said the impact of those measures
will show next year, declining to predict how home prices will
perform, RTHK said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  