-- Libya Says Oil Companies Remain Committed Amid Halts
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i   a n d   M a r i a m   S a m i
-- 2013-09-17T15:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/libya-says-oil-companies-remain-committed-amid-security-concerns.html
(Corrects number of companies that won licenses in sixth
paragraph.)  Security issues aren’t deterring
 oil companies  from working in Libya as the nation restores
production at two fields, National Oil Corp. Chairman Nuri Berruien said.  Output is poised to rise from its current level of about
200,000 to 240,000 barrels a day with the restart of the El
Feel, or Elephant, and Sharara fields, he said today in an
interview in Tripoli. The two deposits will add a combined
400,000 barrels a day to national production when their output
is fully restored, Berruien said. Exports from Libya, which
produced 1.6 million a year ago, have been crippled by labor
disputes at the country’s oil terminals.  Brega, the country’s only terminal in operation, was joined
today by the Zawiya and Mellitah facilities, he said. Es Sider,
the country’s largest oil port, remains closed.  “The oil and gas sector will overcome all these emergency
circumstances and go back to its previous situation,” Berruien
said.  Libya , a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, will restore its output and exports “in a short
time,” the NOC chairman told a conference in the capital city.  There’s no risk that Libya will lose market share as a
result of the disruptions, Berruein said.  No foreign oil companies are pulling out as a result of
security concerns, he said. The rights of international
companies operating in the country are guaranteed, and Libya
expects to hold a bidding round for oil-exploration rights in
2014, he said.  Eni SpA (ENI) , Royal Dutch Shell Plc,  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  Repsol SA (REP) , Total SA and OAO Gazprom are among about 30
companies that won licenses from 2005 to 2007.  Global  oil prices  are “convenient” at current levels,
Berruein said. North Sea benchmark Brent crude futures were at
$109.44 a barrel in London at 1 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  