-- Libya May Sweeten Terms to Entice More Crude Oil Exploration
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-09-17T14:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/libya-oil-chairman-says-terms-to-boost-exploration-under-review.html
Libya  is reassessing the terms it
offers foreign companies to explore for oil as the OPEC member
seeks to entice more partners and boost crude output while
resolving worker protests that are curbing exports.  “The conditions are under review so as to improve
relations with the companies in a win-win context and promote
long-term investments,” Nuri Berruien, chairman of state-owned
National Oil Corp., told an oil conference in Tripoli today.  Libya plans to hold its next bidding round for exploration
rights in mid-2014, Berruien said. The auction would be the
North African country’s first since the ouster of  Muammar Qaddafi  in 2011.  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Repsol
SA (REP) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  OAO Gazprom (OGZD)  are among about 30 companies that
won licenses in four auctions held from 2005 to 2007. Libya
organized the rounds after the U.S. in 2004 lifted economic
sanctions it imposed nearly 20 years earlier over accusations
that Qaddafi supported terrorists.  The new terms would sweeten financial incentives for
companies exploring in remote areas, according to Najmi Karim,
chairman of Libya’s petroleum law review committee. “We will
seek to reward risk,” he said in an interview in Tripoli.  ’High’ Potential  The terms Libya offered in previous rounds “were
considered just about competitive,” Eurasia Group North  Africa 
analyst Riccardo Fabiani said yesterday in an e-mail. “The
international  oil companies  were attracted mostly to the fact
that Libya was relatively under-explored after decades of
international sanctions and isolation, and therefore the
potential was considered high.”  The county’s production peaked at 3.3 million barrels a day
in 1970, the year after Qaddafi took power. The most it has
pumped since then was about 1.8 million barrels a day in 2008.  Libya, with Africa’s largest proven oil reserves, is
producing at a daily rate of 200,000 to 240,000 barrels,
Berruein said, a fraction of the post-Qaddafi era high of 1.6
million barrels that it reached last year. Worker protests over
pay, jobs and promotions have crippled operations at oil
terminals in recent months, curbing shipments.  Berruien said he was “confident that the oil and gas
sector will overcome all these emergency circumstances and go
back to its previous situation.” Production and exports would
return to normal in “a short time,” he said.  Elephant Field  Libya restored about 25 percent of its production capacity
when output resumed at the Sharara and El Feel, or Elephant,
fields after talks between the government and striking workers,
the state-run news agency Lana reported yesterday, citing
Abdulwahhab El-Gayedi, the head of parliament’s oil-industry
crisis group. Berruein confirmed that oil was flowing to the
Zawiya refinery from Sharara and said he expected crude from El
Feel to follow later today.  The two fields combined should increase Libya’s oil
production by about 400,000 barrels a day, he said.  “Libya is resource-rich but not fulfilling its production
potential,” Ferdinando Rigardo, regional manager of Repsol SA,
said at the conference in Tripoli. Madrid-based Repsol is the
operator at Sharara.  Libya was losing as much as $130 million a day in potential
because of the worker protests, according to the  finance
ministry . Oil revenue accounts for 75 percent of the
government’s income, the U.S. Energy Information Administration
says, and the lost revenue is complicating Libya’s struggle to
recover from the 2011 civil war that ended Qaddafi’s rule.  Foreign companies that won the country’s earlier bidding
rounds were those that offered to keep the smallest share of any
oil they produced. The average share that winners offered to
keep in the third licensing round in 2006 was 11.7 percent,
“one of the world’s lowest,” according to former NOC Chairman
Shukri Ghanem.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  