-- Microsoft Plans $40 Billion Buyback, Boosts Dividend
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-09-17T21:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/microsoft-plans-40-billion-buyback-boosts-dividend.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s
largest software maker, announced a new $40 billion stock
buyback plan and increased its dividend 22 percent, seeking to
reward shareholders as the company undergoes a change in
strategy and leadership.  The repurchase program, which has no expiration date,
replaces another $40 billion buyback plan that was due to lapse
at the end of this month, Microsoft said today in a statement.
The company’s quarterly dividend will rise to 28 cents a share,
payable on Dec. 12 to shareholders of record as of Nov. 21.  The move is a step in the right direction for investors,
though the open-ended schedule for the new buyback plan raises
questions, said Matthew Hedberg, an analyst with RBC Capital
Markets in  Minneapolis . The company has come under pressure from
activist investor ValueAct Holdings LP, which pushed Microsoft
to return more money to shareholders, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  “What would be more interesting is if they put more
parameters on the timing of the buyback -- sooner is better than
later,” said Hedberg, who has a neutral rating on Microsoft.
“The dividend is more material because it’s incremental to
their existing dividend.”  Shares of Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft rose 0.4
percent to $32.93 at the close in New York. The stock has gained
23 percent this year.  Tops Estimates  The new 28-cent dividend tops the 26 cents estimated by
analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The increase
gives Microsoft an indicated yield of 3.4 percent, providing one
of the largest payouts among technology stocks.  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s
3.8 percent 12-month indicated yield is the only U.S. technology
company with a market value of more than $100 billion that pays
more on that basis.  After struggling to keep up with rivals in the smartphone
and tablet markets, Microsoft is retooling its strategy and
seeking a new chief executive officer.  Steve Ballmer , who has
run the company since 2000, announced plans last month to retire
when a replacement is found. The company also agreed to buy
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s phone business for $7.2 billion, aiming to bolster
its position in mobile devices.  ValueAct Accord  Microsoft signed a pact last month to cooperate with
ValueAct, saying it would hold regular meetings with the firm’s
president, Mason Morfit. Under the agreement, ValueAct also has
the option of having Morfit become a director beginning at the
first quarterly board meeting of 2014.  Jeffrey Ubben, CEO of ValueAct, said in a speech at a
conference today that his firm has only had good things to say
about Microsoft. “All we have talked about Microsoft publicly
is all the positives that the company brings to potential
investors,” he said. “We haven’t said one negative thing about
them.”  George Hamel, ValueAct’s co-founder, didn’t respond to a
message seeking comment on the dividend.  Coupled with the leadership shakeup, Microsoft’s latest
move suggests a shifting attitude at the company, said Rick Sherlund, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York.  “Things are changing at Microsoft with respect to
corporate governance that we believe could benefit shareholders
over the next six to 12 months,” he said in a report.  While the dividend increase was more than Sherlund had
estimated, the significance of the buyback plan is harder to pin
down, he said.  “The pace of share repurchase had slowed at the company,
so it is not clear that the new program implies any more
aggressive plans,” said Sherlund, who recommends buying the
stock.  Peter Wootton, a Microsoft spokesman, declined to comment
on when the company will make the repurchases.  Apple’s Payout  The size of the buyback eclipses most repurchase programs,
though it’s smaller than the $50 billion plan announced by Apple
Inc. in April. That company is authorized to repurchase a total
of $60 billion in stock. Including dividends, Cupertino,
California-based Apple expects to dole out $100 billion in
shareholder rewards by 2015.  Apple held its first bond sale since 1996 to help finance
the shareholder rewards, taking advantage of low rates. Like
Microsoft, Apple has much of its cash overseas, making it harder
to free up for dividends and buybacks.  Microsoft may have to do something similar depending on how
quickly it wants to make the buybacks, Hedberg said.  “They had enough working cash and cash-flow satisfying
ability for their existing dividends, so I expect that they
won’t need extra capital,” he said. “If they got more
aggressive on timing, they might have to tap into debt
markets.”  Bing Website  Microsoft is grappling with a shift from the personal-computer market -- where its Windows and Office software is
dominant -- to mobile and Web-based applications. While
Microsoft’s traditional products remain profitable, its
expansion into new areas hasn’t gained as much traction.  The company said in July that its online-services business,
largely advertising revenue from the Bing search engine and
other online properties, posted an operating loss of $1.28
billion in the fiscal year ended June 30.  Earlier today Microsoft unveiled a redesigned Bing website,
aiming to gain ground on Google Inc., the leading search engine.  Microsoft should work on better linking its biggest
businesses -- Windows, Office, and Server and Tools -- rather
than concentrating on peripheral products like Internet search
and the Xbox video-game lineup, Sherlund said.  “The new CEO search could result in a tighter focus on its
lines of business,” he said. “We have suggested search and
Xbox lose money and are not essential.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  