-- Mid-Cap Stocks Win Favor at ABN on Outlook for Growth
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-09-17T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/mid-cap-stocks-win-favor-at-abn-on-outlook-for-growth.html
ABN Amro Private Banking is betting
that smaller companies will benefit the most as corporations
boost spending in 2014 amid the fastest global economic growth
in four years.  Smaller firms will rally the most among equities worldwide
as they provide the tools and goods needed for larger companies
to grow, according to ABN Amro’s wealth-management unit.
Improving economic indicators mean the biggest companies will be
more willing to increase expenditure and may look to acquire
smaller competitors to support expansion, said Didier Duret,
chief investment officer for the private bank.  “These companies are at the crossroads of innovation and
new demand, and tend to benefit in the middle of an economic
recovery,” Amsterdam-based Duret, who helps oversee 164.5
billion euros ($220 billion), said in a phone interview
yesterday. “Increased confidence and domestic drivers are why
we’ve selected small- and medium-cap stocks in what is now a
more mature market. The last time we did that was in 2005.”  Earnings at companies in the MSCI World Mid-Cap Index will
surge 93 percent in the three years through 2015, while profit
for the benchmark MSCI World Index will advance 47 percent,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure of mid-size stocks has rallied 19 percent this year
through yesterday, while the gauge of the largest developed-market shares rose 16 percent.  In the U.S., the Standard & Poor’s Mid-Cap 400 Index has
climbed 21 percent in 2013, while the S&P 500 gauge of the
largest companies has gained 19 percent.  Expedia, Arcadis  Companies like  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , which provides online travel
booking services, and  Arcadis NV (ARCAD) , a Dutch designer of bridges
and dikes, are likely to increase profit at a faster pace than
larger firms during an improving economy, Duret said. Smaller
companies are also less leveraged, with U.S. mid-caps holding 46
percent  less debt  per share than firms listed on the S&P 500,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Duret increased his equity allocation to 44 percent of
assets in September from 40 percent in June. ABN Amro predicts
the global economy will expand 3.8 percent in 2014. That would
be the fastest pace since 2010 and more than the 2.9 percent
growth projected by economists in a Bloomberg survey. The bank
cut its cash holdings to 9 percent from 13 percent, according to
a report published today.  ABN Amro’s wealth-management unit maintained its overweight
position in stocks for a fifth consecutive quarter, meaning it
holds more of the assets than represented in benchmark
portfolios.  “It looks like we are getting out of the woods, and it’s
widely spread and evenly distributed across the developed
regions,” said Duret. “There’s a constructive scenario ahead
of us where many forecasters may be surprised by the cumulative
effect within the economy. It has been the longest recession
I’ve seen in my career, and it’s due time we got out it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  