-- IMF Says Budget Cutting Needs ‘Speed Limits’ Even Under Pressure
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-09-17T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/imf-says-budget-cutting-needs-speed-limits-even-under-pressure.html
Countries should observe “speed
limits” and avoid narrowing fiscal deficits too quickly, even
when they face pressure from investors justifying a large debt
reduction, according to International Monetary Fund staff.  “As we have seen for some euro-area members, countries in
a weak fiscal position that are facing market pressure or have
lost  market access  have undertaken large and front-loaded
adjustments,” according to a report by IMF economists released
today. The research compiles lessons from the global financial
crisis and the debt turmoil that followed in  Europe .  “In many countries, fiscal imbalances are of such
magnitude that addressing them in the near term would require
adjustment on a scale that would dramatically impact economic
activity and would have devastating consequences for the
provision of government services,” the staff said in the
report.  The IMF has been softening its support for fiscal austerity
in recent years as Chief Economist  Olivier Blanchard  argued that
budget cuts had caused a deeper-than-expected reduction in
European growth. Countries including Greece and  Portugal , which
received joint loans from the IMF and the other euro-region
nations, were granted more time to meet deficit targets.  “Even for countries under market pressure there are ‘speed
limits’ that govern the desirable pace of adjustment,” the IMF
staff wrote.  The effectiveness of fiscal stimulus to support growth in
the aftermath of the financial crisis showed it can be a
powerful tool when central banks have reduced  interest rates  to
zero and the financial industry is weak, according to the
report.  At the same time, investors turning against countries in
the euro region debunked the view that a full debt crisis in
advanced economies was a remote possibility, according to the
report. As a result, the debt level that policy makers should
target in the long term should be lower than it used to be, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  