-- India Rupee Drops Most in Two Weeks as Fed Meets; Swaps Decline
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-09-17T12:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/india-rupee-drops-most-in-two-weeks-before-fed-meets-bonds-gain.html
India’s rupee fell the most in two
weeks as the  Federal Open Market Committee  starts a meeting
today to decide whether to taper stimulus that has driven demand
for emerging-market assets.  Interest-rate swaps  dropped.  The Fed will probably trim its monthly debt-buying program
by $10 billion to $75 billion this week, a Bloomberg survey of
economists showed this month. Overseas funds have reduced
 holdings  of Indian notes by $10.6 billion since May 22, when Fed
Chairman  Ben Bernanke  first flagged a potential paring of asset
purchases. The  Reserve Bank  of India will review policy Sept. 20
after data yesterday showed  wholesale prices  unexpectedly
accelerated to a six-month high in August from a year earlier.  The rupee slid 0.8 percent to 63.37 per dollar in Mumbai,
the most since Sept. 3, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency, which touched the strongest
level in almost a month yesterday, has rallied 3.7 percent in
September.  “Nobody really wants to take a view ahead of the Fed and
RBI decisions,” said Vivek Chaturvedi, associate vice president
for foreign exchange and derivatives at Ratnakar Bank Ltd. in
Mumbai. “The rupee is in a delicate balance” after the recent
gains, he said.  India ’s one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract
used to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, slid three
basis points to 9.19 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The yield on the 7.16 percent sovereign notes due May 2023 was
at 8.44 percent from 8.43 percent yesterday, which was the
lowest since Sept. 5, according to the central bank’s trading
system.  Borrowing Target  India is said to keep its gross borrowing goal of 6.29
trillion rupees for the year ending March 2014, according to two
finance ministry officials with direct knowledge of the matter.
The government will announce the borrowing calendar on Sept. 23,
the officials said on the condition of anonymity as the details
aren’t public yet.  The rupee gained by the most since October 2009 last week
on optimism steps announced by the new RBI governor will boost
the supply of dollars. In his first speech upon taking office on
Sept. 4,  Raghuram Rajan  offered to sell concessional swaps for
lenders’ foreign-currency deposits and vowed to curb inflation.
The steps will boost India’s reserves by $10 billion, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch estimates.  Rajan took charge after the central bank, under his
predecessor  Duvvuri Subbarao , raised two  interest rates  in July
to increase shorter-term borrowing costs and capped cash
injections into the banking system among a series of measures by
policy makers to stem the currency’s slide.  Rupee Risk  The “rupee remains at risk on poor data, external
developments,” Amit Agrawal, an analyst at Societe Generale SA
in Bangalore, wrote in a research report today. “We believe
that the backdrop for global  emerging markets  continues to be
quite challenging.”  The rupee’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
surged 118 basis points to 18.68 percent, the biggest jump since
Aug. 28 when the currency hit a record low of 68.845 a dollar.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards dropped 0.4 percent to
64.67 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts slid 0.7 percent to 65.10. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  