-- Investec Slumps After First-Half Operating Profit Declines
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-09-17T15:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/investec-slumps-after-first-half-operating-profit-declines-2-.html
Investec Plc (INVP) , which owns a bank and
money manager in  South Africa  and the U.K., declined the most in
more than four years after it said fiscal first-half operating
profit will drop on rand weakness and market turmoil.  Adjusted earnings per share for the six months ending Sept.
30 are expected to be as much as 10 percent lower than a year
earlier, the Johannesburg- and London-based lender said in a
statement today. Investec, which reports results in November,
fell as much as 8.6 percent in London trading.  “The returns are not acceptable,” Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Koseff said in a presentation in Johannesburg. “We’re
firing on two and a half cylinders out of three. There’s an
element of the business that is still a work in progress.”  Investec earnings came under pressure after the rand
depreciated 14 percent against the dollar this year, making it
the worst performer of the major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Profit at the company’s global private banking
business won’t match the year-earlier period, weighed down by
the performance of its U.K. and Australian units, Investec said.  Lending growth and fee income “are slightly behind our
full-year estimates,” Greg Saffy, an analyst at RMB Morgan
Stanley in Johannesburg, said today. “It appears the momentum
at Investec Asset Management has also slowed, with lackluster
inflows.”  Investec shares slid 3.6 percent, the most since June 5, to
close at 425.80 pence in  London , falling more than the FTSE 350
Banks Index, which dropped 1.8 percent. The stock lost 3.1
percent, the most in almost three weeks, to 67 rand by the close
in Johannesburg.  Little Activity  The U.K. private bank was hurt by low levels of activity,
while the Australian business was affected by “significant
strategic restructuring,” Investec said in the statement. “The
period under review was again characterized by volatility in the
macro and geopolitical environment, all of which will have an
impact on the group’s expected results,” the bank said.  Impairments are expected to be about 25 percent lower than
a year earlier, while expenses will increase “moderately,” the
bank said. Investec’s  asset management  unit recorded 1.2 billion
pounds in inflows through the end of August, while third-party
assets under management declined 4 percent.  “Investec is one of our top picks, behind  FirstRand (FSR)  and
Nedbank,” said Saffy, who recommends buying Investec shares.
“We continue to believe that Investec’s quality of earnings is
still improving.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  