-- Investors Grow Bullish on Stocks, Spurn Bonds, BofA Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-09-17T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/investors-grow-bullish-on-stocks-spurn-bonds-bofa-says.html
Investors have raised equity
allocations to the highest level in 2 1/2 years after turning
skeptical of bonds, and prefer euro-area shares to American
stocks, a Bank of America Corp. survey showed.  A net 60 percent of 172 global fund managers, who together
oversee about $518 billion, were overweight on stocks, the
highest level since February 2011, according to the survey.
Three out of four investors said they believed bond yields will
be higher in 12 months.  “This is much more about investors being fearful about
bonds than them lacking faith in equities,” John Bilton,
European investment strategist at Merrill Lynch, said at a press
conference in  London  today. Exposure to bonds fell to its lowest
level since April 2006, with 68 percent of investors
underweight, the survey found.  “Our whole theme of the great rotation suggests that we
are in multi-quarter, if not multi-year, move from bonds to
stocks,” Bilton said. “Equity-risk premium, the valuation
assumptions about equities generally, the gradually improving
economy and clearly the pickup in inflation expectations which
are at two and a half year highs would tend to favor the equity
complex over the bond complex.”  U.S., Europe  Allocations to U.S. equities fell sharply to the lowest
level in seven months, retreating to 9 percent overweight from
32 percent in August, the BofA survey found.  “In our view, tapering fears have spurred on the September
rotation from U.S. to the  euro zone  and U.K.,”  Michael Hartnett , the New York-based chief investment strategist at Bank
of America’s Merrill Lynch unit, wrote in the report to
investors today.  Investor exposure to U.K. equities has increased to 12
percent overweight, the highest level in almost 11 years, the
survey found. “The U.K. is a lower beta market and viewed as a
quality or defensive play in  Europe ,” Hartnett wrote.  Allocations to euro-zone stocks rose to 36 percent
overweight, the highest level since September 2007, with euro-zone equities becoming the most preferred region globally for
the first time in six years, according to the BofA survey.  The global survey was conducted from September 6 to
September 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  