-- Iranian Offer of Deal on Nuclear Program Met by Doubts
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-09-17T15:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/iranian-offer-of-deal-on-nuclear-program-met-by-doubts.html
Iran ’s offer to negotiate a deal on
its suspected nuclear weapons program with the International
Atomic Energy Agency, the five permanent United Nations Security
Council members and  Germany  is being met with skepticism.  Ali Akbar Salehi, Iran’s former foreign minister and now
its top nuclear negotiator, said yesterday in Vienna that his
country “will facilitate the resolution of this issue if the
other side is willing.”  Iranian President Hassan Rohani is ready to decommission
the Fordo uranium enrichment facility in exchange for an easing
of international economic sanctions, the German news outlet Der
Spiegel  reported  yesterday, citing unidentified intelligence
officials.  While Iran says its nuclear work is for peaceful purposes,
the U.S. and its allies say Iran is secretly trying to develop
nuclear weapons.  Decommissioning Fordo would be “a good sign, but if they
expect sanctions to be lifted in the short term, they are
deluding themselves,” said David Albright, a former nuclear
inspector and the president of ISIS. “Iran will be looking at
how little they can try and do to get sanction relief.”  Rohani and Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif have said
they want a “win-win” result from negotiations with the IAEA
and the P5+1 --  China ,  France ,  Russia , the U.K. and the U.S.,
plus Germany.  Ultimate Authority  Iran has “a commitment to work toward a win-win solution
for the nuclear issue,” said Alireza Miryousefi, a spokesman at
Iran’s United Nations mission in New York. “Of course, the
technical details should be discussed during the negotiations.”  After eight years of bellicose statements from former
president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and other officials, Western
analysts are uncertain what the less confrontational Rohani can
do, in part because Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has
ultimate authority over the country’s nuclear program.  Iranian officials believe “the position that we’ve stuck
with from day one is that Iran should give up a lot in terms of
putting caps on its enrichment program or going to zero
enrichment, reducing its activities everywhere, giving all kinds
of pledges of heightened access to International Atomic Energy
Agency inspectors, in return for the promise of a marginal
improvement in their sanctions situation,” said Gary Sick, a
member of the U.S. National Security Council under Presidents
Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan.  ‘Give Some’  They “don’t see that as a good deal,” Sick said in an
 interview  with the Council of Foreign Relations published
yesterday. “Clearly, we’re going to have to give some, and
they’re going to have to give some.”  Fordo, buried in a mountain near the city of Qom, the
religious center of the country, began operating in late 2011.
The facility is designed to hold 3,000 centrifuges, according to
the Washington-based Institute for Science and International
Security.  “The Iranians haven’t showed much interest in shutting
down Fordo,” said Robert Einhorn, who this year left a position
as the State Department’s special adviser for nonproliferation
and arms control. “I don’t see why the U.S. would want to
surrender so much leverage and in return only get a small
portion of its goals. I don’t see that as a credible offer, and
I doubt the Iranians are prepared to make that offer.”  ‘First Step’  Even if Iran did close Fordo, the country’s stockpile of
low- and medium-enriched uranium and the 18,000 centrifuges
installed at another enrichment plant near Natanz would allow it
to make highly enriched fuel for nuclear weapons, said  Mark Dubowitz , executive director of the Foundation for Defense of
Democracies in  Washington .  “While this is a welcome first step by President Rohani,
and should be reciprocated with some sanctions relief, it is not
nearly sufficient to warrant the lifting of the toughest Western
sanctions,” said Dubowitz, who has advised Congress and the
Obama administration on adopting increasingly tough sanctions.  Iran must put its nuclear program under international
control, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told reporters
in Moscow yesterday. The new Iranian leadership’s commitment to
dialogue is “welcome,” Lavrov said.  ‘Actions, Not Words’  “We are more interested in actions, not words,” said Mark Regev, spokesman for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
Regev said the diplomatic pressure on Iran should be increased
together with a “credible military threat” until the Islamic
Republic ceases all uranium enrichment, removes all enriched
material from its territory, closes what he called its
“illegal” uranium enrichment plant at Fordo and halts all
plutonium production.  Diplomats from the IAEA’s 159 member nations are meeting
this week in Vienna. Iran, in its 11th year of a UN effort to
inspect its nuclear program, reiterated that while it won’t give
up its right to enrich uranium, it’s prepared to increase
cooperation with monitors.  Iran is ready “for a more constructive” relationship with
the IAEA, said Salehi, saying that his country wants the body to
take a more active role in stopping cyber-attacks against
nuclear facilities. The Stuxnet computer worm attacked the
control systems of Iranian nuclear facilities in 2010.  “They say that they really don’t want nuclear weapons. We
should take them at their word,” said Sick in the CFR
interview. “So let’s figure out how you can satisfy us that you
don’t want nuclear weapons,” he said, advocating “a private
meeting” between the U.S. and Iran “without all the glare of
publicity.”  UN nuclear inspectors are scheduled to meet with their
Iranian counterparts Sept. 27 in Vienna for negotiations over
gaining wider access to suspected Iranian nuclear facilities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  