-- Israel Chemicals Slides as Mosaic Reduces Potash Forecast
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-09-17T10:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/israel-chemicals-slides-as-mosaic-reduces-potash-forecast.html
  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL) , a company
that extracts minerals from the Dead Sea to make fertilizers and
potash, fell the most in two weeks after competitor  Mosaic Co. (MOS) 
cut its quarterly forecast for potash sales and prices.  Shares of the Tel Aviv-based company dropped 1.5 percent,
the most since Sept. 3, to 29.35 shekels at 1:28 p.m. in Tel
Aviv. The shares had risen as much as 21 percent since reaching
an almost five-year low on Sept. 8. Israel Chemicals led
declines on the benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25) , which fell 0.2 percent.  Mosaic, North America’s second-largest fertilizer producer,
said potash sales volumes in the third quarter will be as low as
1.45 million metric tons, down from a July forecast of at least
1.8 million. The company also trimmed the top end of the  price
range  to $340 per ton from the original forecast of $360 a ton.
Potash prices will remain low and a reconciliation of OAO
Uralkali, the world’s biggest potash producer, with Belaruskali
isn’t expected in the medium-term, Morgan Stanley wrote in a
report today.  “Based on Mosaic’s forecast we expect a weak set of
numbers for ICL,” said Guil Bashan, an analyst at I.B.I.-Israel
Brokerage & Investments Ltd. in Tel Aviv. “Investors are now
taking profits also as bets are abating that the cartel will be
restored.”  Israel Chemicals last week jumped 12 percent on bets
Russian entrepreneur Vladimir Kogan’s bid for Uralkali will
stabilize the potash market. Global fertilizer markets have
softened, in part, because of product distributors’ cautiousness
related to the breakup of Belarusian Potash Co., Mosaic said
yesterday.  Israel Corp. (ILCO) , which holds a 52.3 percent stake in the
potash harvester according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
retreated 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  