-- Israel to Double Supply of Water to Thirsty Gaza Strip
-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-09-17T15:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/israel-to-double-supply-of-water-to-thirsty-gaza-strip.html
Israel will build a pipeline that
doubles the amount of water sold to the Palestinian Authority
for Gaza Strip residents, a Defense Ministry spokesman said.  The new pipeline will increase supplies to the Gaza Strip
to 10 million cubic meters, spokesman Guy Inbar said today in a
phone interview. The  West Bank  water allotment will rise by 4
million cubic meters to 57 million.  Boosting water supplies and building materials are among
the steps that create a “more positive atmosphere,” said
former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair , representing Western
powers supporting efforts to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict. Israel increased construction materials allowed into
Gaza as well and will provide more permits for West Bank
Palestinians to work in Israel, Inbar said.  Some 90 percent of the water from an aquifer that supplies
Gaza, home to 1.6 million Palestinians, is unsafe for drinking,
the  United Nations  said in a report last year. That aquifer may
become unusable in three years and irreversibly damaged by 2020
unless pumping stops and major infrastructure upgrades are made,
it said. About 2.7 million Palestinians live in the West Bank.  The water and materials requests were sought by Palestinian
President  Mahmoud Abbas , the official Palestinian news agency
Wafa said. While Gaza is ruled by Hamas, the militant Islamist
group that took power in 2007, Abbas’s Palestinian Authority
deals with Israel for supplies in Gaza.  Hamas, which seeks Israel’s destruction, is considered a
terrorist organization by the U.S. and European Union.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in Gaza City at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  