-- Jefferies Profit Tumbles 83% on Plunge in Bond Trading
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-09-18T01:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/jefferies-profit-tumbles-83-as-bond-trading-revenue-plunges.html
Jefferies Group LLC, the investment
bank owned by  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK) , said profit plunged 83
percent in the fiscal third quarter as trading revenue fell to
the lowest since the depths of the financial crisis.  Net income for the three months ended Aug. 31 dropped to
$11.7 million from $70.2 million a year earlier, the New York-based firm said yesterday in a statement. Jefferies was acquired
this year by Leucadia, whose quarter ends Sept. 30.  Revenue from fixed-income trading, a unit overseen by
William Jennings and Johan Eveland, plunged 88 percent to $33.1
million, bringing total revenue from buying and selling
securities to $184.1 million, the lowest since the fourth
quarter of 2008. The biggest Wall Street trading firms are
scheduled to report third-quarter earnings in October.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest  U.S. bank , said this month revenue from
trading could fall as much as 5 percent.  “We experienced a very challenging summer in our fixed-income businesses due to the rising-rate environment, spread
widening, redemptions experienced by our client base which
heavily muted trading, and related mark-to-market writedowns
within our inventory,” Jefferies Chief Executive Officer
Richard Handler, who also runs Leucadia, said in the statement.  Handler, 52, said earlier this year that Jefferies saw a
significant slowdown in fixed-income trading during March and
April resulting from concern about the tapering of the  Federal
Reserve ’s bond-buying. Speculation that the Fed will reduce its
$85 billion in monthly purchases has sent the benchmark 10-year
Treasury yield to its highest level since 2011. The central bank
is set to speak today about the stimulus program.  September Improvement  “Fixed-income markets were most unsettled in June, while
July and August were more balanced,” Handler said in
yesterday’s statement. “Since Labor Day, client flows have been
stronger, and fixed-income performance has markedly improved to
more normal levels,” he said, referring to the U.S. holiday on
Sept. 2.  Handler became Jefferies’s CEO in 2001. He has since grown
its assets almost 10-fold while more than tripling headcount to
about 3,800 employees. The company paid him $19 million for
fiscal 2012 after its stock jumped 48 percent in the period.  Shares of Leucadia fell 0.9 percent to $28.05 yesterday in
 New York . They slid about 21 percent in the three months ended
Aug. 31 amid the surge in  interest rates . In that same period,
yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury climbed from 2.1
percent to 2.8 percent.  Equity Rally  Central-bank stimulus has helped drive a global equity
rally, with the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rising more than 150
percent from its bear-market low in 2009. The index reached a
record Aug. 2, then fell 4.5 percent by month’s end as
speculation increased that the Fed would begin winding down its
stimulus.  “This quarter is going to be a quarter where banks
differentiate themselves on how they manage risk and execute,”
said Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC in New
York. “Execution is going to be key in differentiating who did
well and who didn’t.”  Jefferies’s revenue from trading stocks also declined,
falling 28 percent to $151 million from the year-earlier period.
Investment-banking revenue climbed 23 percent to $319.3 million
amid increases in fees from underwriting and advising clients.  Knight Capital  Jefferies recorded negative revenue from principal
transactions of $24.9 million in the quarter. That compares with
$297 million in revenue in the same period of 2012.  The firm marked down its investment in the former Knight
Capital Group Inc. by $16 million in the fiscal third quarter
amid declines in that firm’s stock price, Handler said in the
statement. That mark-down was recorded in the firm’s equities
net revenue, he said.  JPMorgan said last week that third-quarter revenue from
trading stocks and bonds could be unchanged to down as much as 5
percent from a year earlier. September 2012 was “particularly
strong, and we’re not necessarily expecting it to be as strong
this year,” Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake said at an
investor conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  