-- JPMorgan Index Seen Rupee Savior as Singh Tinkers: India Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2013-09-17T08:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/jpmorgan-index-seen-rupee-savior-as-singh-tinkers-india-credit.html
Global investors and strategists
say  India  needs to remove all limits on investing in its bond
market, after a move to cut red tape helped bolster the rupee.  Lombard Odier Investment Management and Aletti Gestielle
Sgr SpA say such opening would allow India to join major bond
indexes, boosting inflows. Inclusion in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
GBI-Global Diversified Index of emerging-market government debt
could lure as much as $40 billion over 12 months, according to
Standard Chartered Plc.  The rupee rose 1 percent yesterday as Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh allowed foreigners to buy sovereign debt without
quotas until holdings reach 90 percent of the overall $30
billion limit. The currency slumped 14 percent as investors
pulled $8.9 billion from local notes in three months through
Aug. 31. Standard Chartered says inclusion in major indexes
would limit outflows during such panic selling as investors
can’t stray too far from their benchmark’s performance.  “Removing the cap on debt investment is a progressive step
which policy makers should consider,” said Nagaraj Kulkarni, a
strategist at Standard Chartered in  Singapore . “The latest
measure is a welcome simplification of an existing process. This
alone will be insufficient to reverse the recent outflows.”  The  rule change  announced by Securities and Exchange Board
of India after trading hours on Sept. 13 follows an earlier
decision to remove the need for foreign institutional investors
to buy quotas for acquiring corporate debt.  Investment Limit  Regular overseas investors can buy as much as $25 billion
of government bonds and an extra investment of a maximum $5
billion is permitted for long-term investors such as sovereign
wealth funds. Both categories of foreigners held a combined  659
billion rupees  ($10.4 billion) of debt as of Sept. 16, official
data show. Overseas funds held  $138.5 billion  of equities as of
Sept. 13, according to exchange data.  Foreign investors own about 2 percent of India’s $550
billion of rupee-denominated sovereign debt compared with 41
percent in Malaysia and 31 percent each in Indonesia and  Brazil ,
Standard Chartered estimated in a Sept. 12 research note.
 Romania ’s inclusion in JPMorgan GBI-EM index in March was
estimated to boost inflows by $2 billion, while the addition of
Nigerian debt in October last year was seen to lure $1.5 billion
to the country, according analysts at the U.S. bank.  Darrell Wright, head of communications and media relations
at JPMorgan in Singapore, said the lender couldn’t immediately
comment on India’s case.  Portfolio Inflows  “We would expect portfolio inflows to pick up as India
joins global indices,” said Holger Friedrich, who manages $490
million of bonds in  London  at Lombard Odier Investment
Manangement. “It would be helpful in the long run, if combined
with reasonable macro long-term measures addressing structural
weaknesses, not just short-term steps to fix the currency
weakness.”  The unit of Lombard Odier & Cie., a Geneva-based private
bank that managed $183 billion globally as of June, has a quota
to buy Indian government debt, Friedrich said in a Sept. 13
telephone interview. The notes have a 7 percent weight in its
in-house index for local-currency debt, he said.  The yield on India’s 7.16 percent rupee-denominated bond
due May 2023 fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
to 8.395 percent as of 2:08 p.m. in Mumbai, according to central
bank prices. It reached a five-year high of 9.24 percent on Aug.
19. The rupee fell 0.4 percent to 63.11 per dollar.  The cost of insuring bonds of  State Bank of India (SBIN) ,
considered a proxy for the government by some investors, against
non-payment for five years fell 5 basis points yesterday to 326,
a sixth day of decline, according to data provider CMA. The
credit-default swaps surged 106 basis points in August, the most
since October 2008, and reached a 14-month high of 372 on Aug.
20.  Twin Deficits  India’s currency and bonds have declined this year as
Asia’s third-largest economy expanded 4.4 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, the least since the three months ended
March 2009, and amid the nation’s twin current-account and
budget deficits. Foreign investors pulled $3.7 billion from
stocks in the three months through Aug. 31 as capital fled
 emerging markets  amid prospects of the Federal Reserve reducing
its record stimulus.  The shortfall in the  current account , the broadest measure
of trade, widened to a record 4.8 percent of GDP in the year
ended March 31, official data show. The Reserve Bank of India
considers the gap the biggest risk to India’s economy.  In January 2012, then RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said
that though limits for foreign investment in corporate and
government debt have been expanded marginally, the changes were
only meant to gauge market appetite and were not a sign that
caps will be increased further. The central bank prefers non-debt flows over debt flows, he said.  Yield Swings  The perception that higher bond inflows would stoke market
volatility isn’t entirely true, Standard Chartered’s Kulkarni
said. Data compiled by the U.K. lender show yield swings in the
past three years have been larger in India than in markets like
South Korea,  Malaysia  and  Thailand  that have embraced larger
inflows, he said.  To be eligible for inclusion in global bond indexes India
shouldn’t have explicit capital controls, must allow its
currency to be freely traded and encourage foreign
participation, Standard Chartered said in its report, citing
criteria for benchmarks compiled by banks including JPMorgan.  “India will see committed long-term flows if some of the
caps are eased, and that will benefit its economy and investor
community,” Walter Rossini, who oversees $200 million of Indian
assets at Aletti Gestielle in Milan, said in a Sept. 12
telephone interview. “It will lift confidence by more than just
a notch.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Niveditha Ravi at   nravi2@bloomberg.net  