-- Dimon Tells JPMorgan to Brace for More Regulatory Woes
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-09-17T21:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/jpmorgan-s-dimon-says-bank-boosting-compliance-efforts.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  told employees to prepare for more
legal woes while the bank undertakes an “unprecedented effort”
to comply with regulations.  “We are all well aware of the news around the legal and
regulatory issues facing our company, and in the coming weeks
and months we need to be braced for more to come,” Dimon said
today in an e-mail to JPMorgan’s more than  250,000 employees .  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. lender, increased spending on
internal controls by about $1 billion this year and dedicated
more than $750 million “to address several of our  consent
orders ,” Dimon said. At least 5,000 people at the New York-based company have been assigned to compliance, he said.  The bank will pay at least $750 million to close some
regulatory probes into its record London Whale trading loss last
year, people familiar with the matter said. That includes about
$200 million to resolve Securities and Exchange Commission
claims, a person with knowledge of the matter said today,
requesting anonymity because the agreement isn’t public.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which has been
investigating whether the bank manipulated trading in  credit
derivatives , is unlikely to announce a settlement at the same
time as the other regulators, according to people familiar with
the matter.  Manipulating Markets  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act made it easier for the CFTC to
bring cases against traders accused of manipulating derivatives
markets. The CFTC completed rules in 2011 that require the
agency to show that traders acted recklessly in manipulative
schemes. Earlier rules required the enforcement division to
prove that traders intentionally manipulated markets. The CFTC’s
investigation into possible manipulation would fall under the
new standards, one of the people said.  The expected regulatory settlements won’t affect criminal
probes of JPMorgan, according to a person familiar with the
matter who asked not to be identified because the matter isn’t
public.  The  Justice Department , which charged two former JPMorgan
traders for allegedly trying to conceal the so-called London
Whale loss last year, is continuing its investigation of that
matter, the person said. It’s also examining possible
manipulation of the energy markets and whether Bear Stearns
Cos., which JPMorgan acquired in 2008, provided misleading
information about its mortgage bonds prior to the financial
crisis, according to the person.  Asia Hiring  The bank is also the target of other criminal
investigations, including probes into mortgage bond sales
practices and hiring in  Asia , people familiar with the matter
have said.  JPMorgan is operating under consent orders for previous
violations including municipal bond trading, foreclosures, anti-money laundering practices and internal controls.  “We have re-prioritized our major projects and
initiatives, deployed massive new resources and refocused
critical managerial time on this effort,” said Dimon, 57.  JPMorgan is  simplifying its business  by eliminating
products and services that aren’t central to its operations,
Dimon said. The bank quit student lending, is getting out of
physical commodities sales and trading, and will cut use of
outside vendors, he said. JPMorgan is also reviewing ties with
foreign banks while seeking to strengthen anti-money laundering
controls, he said.  Dimon in past years criticized banking regulators in the
U.S. and abroad for producing rules that he said threatened to
impair economic growth. In today’s letter, Dimon said, “we are
building a more open and transparent relationship with our
regulators.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  