-- Kenya to Enact Harsher Punishments for Elephant, Rhino Poachers
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-09-17T08:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/kenya-to-enact-harsher-punishments-for-elephant-rhino-poachers.html
Kenya  plans to tackle a surge in
the slaughter of elephants and rhinos with stiffer penalties
including 15-year jail terms, according to the majority leader
of parliament.  The proposed Wildlife Conservation and Management Bill
seeks to increase the fine for offenses including unlawfully
killing wild animals to as much as 10 million Kenyan shillings
($114,351) from 40,000 shillings, and raise the jail term to as
many as 15 years from 10 years, according to a copy of the bill.
Parliament’s first reading of the act is scheduled for today,
according to the legislative  agenda  on its website.  “One of the issues is that the current punitive measures
are very weak and we want to make them very harsh so we can
deter people from poaching,” Aden Duale said in an interview in
the capital, Nairobi, on Sept. 3.  Kenya banned the ivory trade in 1989 after the number of
elephants dwindled to about 16,000 from as many as 167,000 in
1976. The government burned its 12-metric-ton ivory stockpile in
a public demonstration organized by then President Daniel Arap Moi that the crime would no longer be tolerated.  The illegal killing of elephants has been on the rise again
over the past few years with poaching at its  highest  level in a
decade in  Africa , fueled by global demand for ivory,
particularly in China and  Thailand , which has pushed up prices,
according to Traffic, a wildlife trade-monitoring group. Rhino
poaching has also been increasing in Africa because of growing
black markets in  Asia  where the horn is used as an ingredient in
traditional medicines, according to the World Wildlife Fund.  Declining Population  Poachers killed 34 rhinos in Kenya so far this year to
August, a 17 percent increase on the whole of 2012, leaving
1,205. About 190 elephants were illegally slaughtered in the
period, compared with 384 last year, putting the total
population at 40,000, according to the government.  The country is stepping up enforcement with plans to deploy
paramilitary forces and acquire drones to track poachers.  Challenges in combating the illegal trade include
corruption in the courts and the frequent collection of  poor
evidence  by wildlife officials, Paula Kahumbu, the director of
WildlifeDirect, a conservationist group, said by phone yesterday
from Nairobi. Of the 157 poaching-related cases detected in
Kenya in the past three years, less than 5 percent have been
prosecuted and only 3 of those convicted were sentenced to jail,
she said.  “If the current rate of poaching is not curbed, elephants
could be extinct in 10 years because for every one elephant
reported killed by authorities, another three or four have been
killed but not reported,” Kahumbu said.  “With the current rate of breeding among elephants, their
population should be increasing by 40 percent annually; instead
it’s dropping by between 10 percent and 20 percent,” she said.  Conserving Kenya’s wildlife has economic rewards, Richard Lesiyampe, principal secretary in the ministry of environment
and natural resources, said on Aug. 8. The country’s game parks
are a major attraction for the almost 2 million tourists that
travel to Kenya every year. Tourism is the country’s biggest
source of foreign exchange earnings after tea exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  