-- Khamenei Signals ‘Flexibility’ in Wrestle With Iran Adversaries
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-09-17T13:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/khamenei-signals-flexibility-in-wrestle-with-iran-adversaries.html
Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah
Ali Khamenei says he’s not opposed to “correct diplomatic
moves” with nations that are  Iran ’s adversaries.  The comments by the country’s highest authority, made at a
meeting with Revolutionary Guards commanders today, may signal
Khamenei’s approval for President Hassan Rohani to engage with
world powers when he attends the United Nations General Assembly
later this month.  “I agree with flexibility because this move in certain
circumstances is positive and necessary but it needs to rely on
one condition,” Khamenei said, according to his website.
“Understanding the opposing party’s nature and goal” are
essential, he said.  “A wrestler may exercise flexibility for a tactical reason
but he won’t forget who his rival is and what his goal is,”
Khamenei was quoted as saying.  Rohani, who succeeded Mahmoud Ahmadinejad last month, has
pledged to improve Iran’s relations with the world and ease
international sanctions imposed by Western powers over his
country’s nuclear program. Iran says its research is solely
civilian and rejects accusations by the U.S. and its allies that
it seeks to develop atomic weapons.  Rohani plans a six-day visit to New York starting Sept. 22.
European Union foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton, who
represents the United Nations Security Council powers plus
 Germany  in nuclear talks with Iran, plans to meet Iranian
Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif in New York, the EU said.  Final Arbiter  After eight years of bellicose statements from Ahmadinejad,
Western analysts are questioning what the less confrontational
Rohani can do given that Khamenei is the final decision maker on
Iran’s foreign policy and nuclear program.  Hossein Mousavian, a former Iranian spokesman for nuclear
negotiations and a research scholar at Princeton University’s
Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, said
that Khamenei has endorsed Rohani’s efforts to initiate
constructive dialogue with the U.S.  Khamenei “has issued the permission for the government of
Hassan Rohani to enter into direct talks with the U.S.,”
Mousavian, wrote in an article published yesterday by  Iranian
Diplomacy , a website run by former diplomats. “There is no
better opportunity to end decades of hostility between Iran and
the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  