-- N.Y. Stop-And-Frisk Judge Denies Bid to Delay Decision
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-09-17T22:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/n-y-stop-and-frisk-judge-denies-bid-to-delay-decision.html
New York  City lost a bid to delay a
federal judge from enforcing a ruling that its police department
violated the constitutional rights of minorities with its stop-and-frisk search tactic.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin today denied the
city’s request to hold off her order while it appeals a decision
appointing a monitor to oversee the  New York City Police
Department ’s stop-and-frisk policies and ordering changes to the
way the city trains, monitors and disciplines police.  “A stay of this court’s orders would encourage the NYPD to
return to its former practice of conducting thousands upon
thousands of improper stops -- including those based merely on a
person entering or exiting a building in which he or she
resides,” Scheindlin said in her opinion.  Scheindlin issued her rulings in two cases after overseeing
a nine-week trial that ended May 20. New York Mayor  Michael R. Bloomberg  said after the rulings Aug. 12 that the city benefited
from the policy and that the judge “ignored the real-world
realities of crime.”  “The city remains committed to reversing the district
court’s underlying decision as expeditiously as possible,”
Michael Cordozo, the city’s corporation counsel, said in an e-mailed statement today. “The plaintiffs have opposed that
motion, apparently preferring to keep police officers in limbo
for the foreseeable future.”  Expedited Appeal  Cardozo said he hopes the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York
will promptly review the city’s request for an expedited appeal.  In her ruling today, Scheindlin rejected the city’s
arguments that going forward with her ruling would be against
the public interest.  “Ordering a stay now would send precisely the wrong
signal,” she wrote. “It would essentially confirm that the
past practices, resulting in hundreds of thousands of stops --
overwhelmingly of minorities -- that resulted in little or no
enforcement action or seizure of contraband were justified and
based on constitutional police practices.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News .  The cases are Floyd v. City of New York, 08-cv-01034; Ligon
v. City of New York 12-cv-02274, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  