-- Navy Contractor Failed to Spot Felons in Clearances
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-09-18T01:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/navy-contractor-failed-to-spot-felons-in-clearances.html
A company hired by the U.S. Navy to
manage passes for entry to Navy facilities issued some
credentials to government contractors before their identities
were vetted through criminal or terrorist databases, according
to an audit by the Pentagon Inspector General.  As a result, “52 convicted felons received routine,
unauthorized access to Navy installations for 62 to 1,035
days,” the audit found. “This placed military personnel,
dependents, civilians and installations at an increased security
risk.”  The Pentagon audit was conducted before yesterday’s
shootings at the Washington Navy Yard and doesn’t indicate
whether the computer contractor identified as the shooter, Aaron
Alexis, had the type of entry pass involved in the review.  The contractor,  Eid Passport Inc. , of Hillsboro,  Oregon ,
provided “interim installation access” for employees of
contractors doing work for the Navy “without having their
identities vetted through mandatory, authoritative databases,”
the audit said.  “The tragic incident that occurred at Washington Navy Yard
was not related to the program we provide to the Navy,” John
Nee, vice president of marketing at Eid Passport, said in an e-mailed statement.  Alexis was never an applicant or participant in the
company’s program, he said. Eid’s project was “designed to
manage access control and privileges” for vendors, contractors
and sub-contractors without a common access card, according to
the company’s website.  Audit Released  The 56-page report was posted on the Inspector General’s
website after lawmakers, including Representative  Mike Turner ,
an  Ohio Republican , asked the Pentagon to make the audit results
public after yesterday’s mass shooting.  Authorities say Alexis, 34, an employee of an information-technology company who had a record of gun-related arrests and a
checkered military career, killed 12 people before he was shot
to death by police. Authorities have said Alexis gained access
to the Navy Yard using a valid credential.  “This is very disturbing because the Inspector General has
specifically identified that the vetting process is
insufficient,” Turner, a member of the House Armed Services
Committee, said in a phone interview. The Navy’s system for
granting access didn’t meet federal and Pentagon rules and
“individuals who’re receiving access to facilities weren’t even
being vetted as possible terrorists,” he said.  52 Felons  Shortcomings in the system for access credentials occurred
because of “an attempt to reduce access control costs,” the
Pentagon audit said.  Of 52 felons the audit found had gained access to Navy
facilities, one person with a previously unidentified felony
conviction had access to the Navy District of  Washington , the
audit found.  Eid Passport told the inspector general that it
subcontracts background checks to other vendors and that “not
all public records are up-to-date, complete, accurate, or
available,” according to the report.  The inspector general also faulted the commander of the
Navy Installations Command for failing to follow “federal
credentialing standards” and not providing 7 out of 10
installations visited by inspectors with “the appropriate
resources and capabilities to conduct required background
checks.”  The inspector general plans to expand the audit to examine
all of the Pentagon’s access control procedures, Turner said.  ‘Wasted Money’  The audit found that the Navy paid Eid Passport $1.2
million in “potentially unallowable costs” and hasn’t had a
valid contract with the company since November 1, 2011. The Navy
in October 2012 entered into a nonbinding agreement, the audit
found.  The Navy’s system that allowed a contractor to issue access
passes to its facilities “wasted money,” and lacked competent
oversight, Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat and
chairman of the Subcommittee on Financial and Contracting
Oversight, said in a statement. The program “constitutes an
unnecessary danger to the Navy and its personnel and it should
be discontinued immediately.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  