-- Navy Yard Shooting Revives Calls to Expand Gun Checks
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-09-17T19:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/navy-yard-shooting-seen-reviving-background-checks-push.html
The deadly shooting rampage at
Washington’s Navy Yard is prompting Senate Democratic leaders to
consider a fresh attempt to advance legislation strengthening
background checks for gun buyers.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
he’ll schedule another vote to expand firearms background checks
“as quickly as we can” when enough members support the bill.
Reid said at the moment, the Senate lacks enough votes to pass
the legislation.  Reid spoke a day after a government contractor, Aaron
Alexis, opened fire inside the Navy Yard complex about a mile
from the U.S. Capitol, killing 12 people. He was then shot to
death by police.  “Sadly, these tragedies so close to the Capitol remind us
of our vulnerability,” said Illinois Senator  Dick Durbin , the
Senate’s second-ranking Democrat.  Four months after 20 school children and six adults were
shot to death at an elementary school in Newtown, Connecticut,
the Senate on April 17 didn’t secure the 60 votes needed to pass
the background check measure authored by Democrat  Joe Manchin  of
West Virginia and and Republican  Pat Toomey  of Pennsylvania. It
would have expanded mandatory background checks to include
purchases from private dealers at gun shows and over the
Internet.  Mental Health  The senators in favor of the failed background-check
legislation expressed optimism they may be able to gather
additional votes by combining a measure dealing with mental
health issues with the previous bill.  “There’s a lot of consensus around some of the elements of
a comprehensive strategy, like mental health,” which is “what
we lacked in the last program,” said Connecticut Senator
 Richard Blumenthal , a Democrat who worked with families of the
Newtown victims to press for new laws.  Manchin said he is open to adding a mental-health
component. “I’ll support anything that moves,” he said.  Manchin said he has yet to discuss a strategy with Reid,
and resistance remains high in the Senate to gun legislation.
“I don’t think anything’s changed on guns,” said South
Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham, a Republican who opposed the
bill.  Even some of the effort’s staunchest backers expressed
skepticism that a mass killing at the doorstep of Congress will
alter the political landscape.  60 Votes  “I’d vote tomorrow for a strong background check,” said
California Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a Democrat. “Having said
that, we got 40 votes, we need 60 votes, and to go through it
all again, it’s a very emotional discussion because it involves
human life, innocent life, and not to be able to succeed is
hard.”  Alexis entered the Navy Yard with a shotgun that he bought
legally in Virginia, and he may have picked up a handgun once
inside the Navy Yard, said Valerie Parlave, the assistant
director in charge of the FBI Washington field office. She said
officials have no indication he had a semiautomatic AR-15 rifle.  Most gun-restriction measures are opposed by Republicans,
while Democratic supporters haven’t won over some colleagues
facing a potential backlash from the gun lobby and voters in
their states.  Reconsider ‘Opposition’  “I hope that some members will reconsider their
opposition,” Durbin said. “This individual appeared to have
some background issues that should have raised some questions.”  The April background-check vote, the most significant gun
restriction vote in 20 years, marked a sharp rejection of an
Obama administration priority. It also countered 90 percent
public support in some polls of mandatory background checks.  Five Democrats voted against the background-check measure:
 Max Baucus  of Montana,  Mark Pryor  of Arkansas,  Mark Begich  of
Alaska and Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota. Baucus announced soon
after the vote that he will retire at the end of his current
term. Reid voted no, allowing himself under Senate rules to seek
reconsideration of the vote.  “If I read the reports, he bought his guns legally and had
a background check, so the issue that that gentlemen had was
mental-health issues,” Begich told reporters today at the
Capitol, noting that he has introduced legislation that would
have made sure Alexis “would have been in the background check
system” when he sought to buy a gun.  2012 Re-Election  “That’s what we should be doing,” Begich said. “That’s
what I’m for, and that’s what I’ve been trying to get the Senate
to vote on.”  Pryor and Begich face re-election next year in states
carried by 2012 Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney .  Newark ,  New Jersey , Mayor  Cory Booker , a Democrat who leads
state polls in a bid to replace the late New Jersey Senator
 Frank Lautenberg , said he hoped yesterday’s shooting  “changes
the conversation, especially on the mental-health issue.”  “We’ve seen now a few mass shootings where there were
mental-health signs that I think should have prevented an
individual from getting a gun or getting a weapon,” Booker, who
is running in an Oct. 16 special election for the Senate seat,
said today in an interview at Bloomberg’s Washington bureau.  Patience Thin  Connecticut Senator Chris Murphy, a freshman Democrat who
pushed for tougher gun laws after the Newtown shooting, told
reporters today at the Capitol that the public is running out of
patience as Congress fails to act.  “The public is not going to sit by and allow this place to
ignore mass shooting after mass shooting,” Murphy said. “There
comes a time where the people have to get what they want in the
Senate.”  Murphy said he hadn’t spoken to Democratic opponents of the
background-check measure, and said that “no matter what state
you’re in,” there was broad support for expanded background
checks.  Manchin told reporters today that it was too soon to say
whether he would renew his background check expansion push.  “I haven’t heard all the reports, and I think we need to
do that,” Manchin said. “It’s so wrong to keep talking about
 gun control . We should be talking about gun sense, and that’s
all out bill did.”  Last week Colorado voters -- in an effort backed by the
 National Rifle Association , the nation’s biggest gun lobby --
recalled two state legislators who supported stricter gun laws.
 New York  City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , who is founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent company Bloomberg LP,
poured money into opposing the effort.  Arizona  Senator  John McCain , one of four Republicans who
supported the background check measure in April, said in an
interview that the Navy Yard shooting shows a need to change gun
laws.  “We should do what we can to keep weapons out of the hands
of people who are mentally unstable,” McCain said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  