-- Navy Yard Shooter Called Buddhist With Anger-Fueled Past
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2013-09-17T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/navy-yard-shooter-called-buddhist-with-anger-fueled-past.html
A contradictory picture emerged of
the suspect in the deadly Washington Navy Yard rampage. He
meditated at a Buddhist temple yet spent hours playing assault-themed video games. He didn’t strike friends as violent, yet was
arrested for firing his gun in anger.  As federal law-enforcement officials appealed for more
information about Aaron Alexis, 34, who was shot dead by police
at the scene, friends expressed surprise that he was being
blamed for the attack yesterday that claimed at least a dozen
lives besides his own. Authorities said he was the sole gunman.  “I don’t think he’s one who would shoot people,” Nutpisit
Suthamtewakul, 30, of Fort Worth, Texas, a friend and former
roommate of Alexis, said in an interview. “I don’t think he
would do that.”  “I’ve never known him to be angry,” he said, adding that
Alexis worshiped with him at a Buddhist temple and traveled to
 Thailand  in the past year with his family.  A far different portrait was drawn by police reports of
Alexis, a former Navy reservist and technology contractor whom
relatives believed had trouble controlling his anger and may
have been suffering from stress brought on by the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks.  Alexis was arrested in Seattle on June 3, 2004 for shooting
the tires on a car belonging to a construction worker parked
near where he lived, according to an incident report posted by
city police. Alexis told police that he’d shot his gun and then
suffered from a “blackout” fueled by anger, after he believed
the construction worker had mocked and disrespected him.  ‘Anger Management’  “Alexis also told me how he was present during the tragic
events of September 11th, 2001, and how those events had
disturbed him,” the arresting officer wrote in the report.
Alexis’s father told authorities at the time that his son “had
experienced anger-management problems” that the family thought
were brought on by stress following his involvement in post-9/11
rescue efforts.  Public records indicate that Alexis was living in Queens at
the time of the terrorist attacks on New York and the Pentagon
12 years ago.  The  Seattle  incident wouldn’t be the last time Alexis would
get in trouble with his gun. He was also arrested in White
Settlement, Texas, on Sept. 4, 2010, for discharging a firearm,
after an upstairs neighbor in his apartment complex called
police to say somebody had shot through her floor and ceiling,
missing her by only a few feet.  Alexis told an officer on the scene the shooting was
accidental -- he said he was cleaning his gun while cooking and
that his hands slipped and unintentionally pulled the trigger.  Neighbor ‘Terrified’  Still, the woman whose apartment was fired on told police
she was “terrified” of Alexis, who had previously called law
enforcement on her several times and confronted her in the
parking lot of their suburban Fort Worth apartment complex to
complain she was being too loud, according to the report.  In a statement, the Tarrant County district attorney’s
office said authorities believed Alexis’s explanation and found
no grounds to follow through on charging him with “recklessly”
discharging a firearm. Yet the incident may have cost Alexis his
apartment; later that month, legal filings show the complex
began the process of evicting him.  Alexis, who was born in New York City, enlisted in the Navy
in 2007 and served in recruit training and logistics in Illinois
and  Texas , according to the Navy. His final assignment was to a
logistics support squadron in Fort Worth, according to the Navy,
and he last held the rank of specialty aviation electrician’s
mate third class. He was discharged in 2011.  ‘Misconduct’ Pattern  Alexis was discharged from the Navy Reserves because of a
“pattern of misconduct” during his service years that included
the 2010 Texas arrest, even though the charges were later
dropped, according to a Navy official who asked not to be
identified discussing personnel matters.  “I can’t fathom him pointing a gun at someone and shooting
them,” Michael Ritrovato, 50, a friend of Alexis, said in an
interview. Still, he said Alexis “did play video games a lot,
the shooting kind, and from what I could tell he was pretty good
at it.”  Ritrovato first met Alexis when he was working at The Happy
Bowl, Suthamtewakul’s Thai restaurant in White Settlement, which
he left about a year ago to join a company involved in computer
work and government contracting.  Contracting Work  Alexis was an employee of The Experts Inc., an information
technology services company that worked as a subcontractor to
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  on a contract to upgrade an intranet network
for the Navy and Marine Corps, according to a statement from
Palo Alto, California-based Hewlett-Packard. Michael Thacker, a
spokesman for Hewlett-Packard, said in a phone interview that he
didn’t know how long Alexis had worked for the subcontractor or
whether he had a security clearance.  “HP is cooperating fully with law enforcement as
requested,” the company said in its e-mailed statement.  Alexis was enrolled as an online student pursuing a
bachelor’s of science degree in aeronautics at Embry-Riddle
Aeronautical University, where he started classes in July 2012,
according to a statement released by the school.  While his friends were aware that he owned guns, they said
they never saw Alexis as being obsessed with firearms. He was
enthralled with the video games, said Ritrovato, who recalled
that when he went to Alexis’s house to watch a football game,
Alexis spent the entire three hours playing in the other room.  ‘Happy Man’  Jua Abbott, 65, of White Settlement, called Alexis “a
happy man” who prayed with her at the temple, came for
celebrations, and “was like my son.” He had attended temple
every Sunday yet hadn’t appeared recently, said Abbott, who said
she had known Alexis for three years and last spoke to him about
six months ago.  Alexis had legal access to the Navy Yard as result of his
work as a contractor and used a “valid pass” to gain entry,
according to Valerie Parlave, assistant FBI director in charge
of the Washington field office.  The shooting, reported at around 8:15 a.m., was the
deadliest mass killing in the U.S. since the massacre of 20
students and six adults in Newtown,  Connecticut , in December.  “There’s no question” the suspected Navy Yard gunman
“would have kept shooting” if he hadn’t been killed,
Washington Metropolitan Police Chief  Cathy Lanier  told
reporters.  “We now feel comfortable we have the single and sole
person responsible for the loss of the life inside the base
today,” Lanier told reporters later.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  