-- New FCC Head Must Reclaim Authority Over Telecom
-- B y   S u s a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-09-17T18:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/new-fcc-head-must-reclaim-authority-over-telecom.html
As the Federal Communications
Commission gets a new chairman, probably this month, the agency
faces historic resistance from the companies it is meant to
regulate. The giant companies that sell access to the Internet
are working on multiple fronts to ensure that no regulator has
any real authority over them.  In a hearing last week before the U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in  Washington , a lawyer for Verizon Communications Inc.
argued that when the FCC deregulated high-speed Internet access
services in 2002, it gave up any authority to require that
network access providers not discriminate in the way they
provide their transport services to end-users, other networks
and content providers such as Netflix and Google.  The next day,  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s chief lobbyist said that policy
governing competition in Internet access  should be set  by the
Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission, not the
FCC. And two days later, Jon Leibowitz, the former chairman of
the FTC, agreed that privacy concerns should be heard by his
former agency. Leibowitz is now a private lawyer working on
behalf of AT&T, Verizon, Comcast Corp.,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) 
and the trade associations for the wireless and cable
industries.  The U.S. Senate can finally confirm Tom Wheeler as FCC
chairman, now that he has been paired with Republican Michael
O’Rielly as a candidate for another seat on the commission. It’s
imperative that Wheeler reclaim the FCC’s authority over
telecommunications. Otherwise, Americans may lose the high-quality, reasonably priced and ubiquitous communications
capacity that they have enjoyed since electronic communications
began. Smart and appropriate regulation would bolster our
country’s competitiveness and help unleash the productive
potential of the middle class.  Antitrust Law  Consider the access providers’ claim that antitrust law can
be used to manage any threats to innovation or competition in
the concentrated market for wired high-speed Internet
connection. (Over the past year,  85 percent  of new subscriptions
went to local cable monopolies, all of which sell content as
well as data transport.) Leibowitz himself pooh-poohed that
notion in 2007, when he pointed out that a high-speed Internet
access provider “with monopoly power in a local market might
use that power to block or degrade some applications or content
that compete with applications or content the broadband company
itself provides.” Antitrust law, Leibowitz added, “would not
prevent such a scheme except after a ‘rule of reason’ analysis”
which would be “drawn out, uncertain, and expensive” --
leading him to conclude that antitrust law “is not necessarily
well-suited to protecting” consumers’ interests.  He was right. By its nature, antitrust law looks backward
at specific cases, asking only whether a monopolist in one
market is driving competing producers from a second market. In
the case of Internet access, however, the existing operators’
rational decisions to favor particular traffic and networks --
even if they don’t completely exclude content competitors --
cause real economic and social harm. Allowing communications
transport companies to act as gatekeepers, choosing winners and
losers, keeps the free market from functioning.  The FTC and Justice Department are both law enforcement
agencies, not charged with economic regulation or industry
management. The FCC, in contrast, enforces a “public interest”
standard. It is allowed to consider values such as national
economic competitiveness, economic inequality, and private
companies’ incentives to provide reasonably priced fiber-optic
connections or to connect their networks with others’. The push
to move privacy issues from the FCC to the FTC should be seen
for what it is -- the thin edge of a wedge designed to pry all
authority from the FCC.  Everything’s Fine  The existing network-access providers (mainly, Verizon and
AT&T for wireless and Comcast and Time Warner Cable for wires)
just keep repeating their mantra that everything is fine in
America. That’s simply not true, as any mayor interested in
ensuring reasonably priced fiber connectivity for local
businesses can attest.  The U.S. lacks any plan to upgrade from cable to faster
fiber-optic connections, and there is no competition among
providers to drive technology upgrades. Nor do the providers
have any incentive to treat fairly any interconnecting networks
being used by their content-level competitors (again, think of
Netflix). Instead, as Verizon’s lawyer told the court last week,
they’re planning to exact payments from these networks for the
privilege of reaching their subscribers on the equivalent basis
as Verizon’s own services.  What’s at stake is more than just how the FCC treats AT&T,
Verizon, Time Warner Cable and Comcast: It’s the country’s
competitive future.  It’s encouraging that Democrats and Republicans in the
Senate seem willing to come together to approve the new FCC
commissioners. Wheeler and the administration must now rise to
the regulatory challenges ahead.  (Susan Crawford, a professor at the Cardozo School of Law
and a fellow at the Roosevelt Institute, is the author of
“Captive Audience: The Telecom Industry and Monopoly Power in
the New Gilded Age.” Follow her on Twitter at  @scrawford .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan P. Crawford at  scrawford@scrawford.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 