-- New Jersey Can’t Legalize Sports Betting, U.S. Court Says
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-09-17T20:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/new-jersey-sports-gambling-law-barred-by-u-s-appeals-court.html
New Jersey ’s law legalizing sports
gambling conflicts with federal statutes, a U.S. appeals court
ruled, barring the Legislature’s attempt to expand wagering.  The law, which would permit betting on professional and
college sports at racetracks and Atlantic City casinos, is pre-empted by the 1992 Professional and Amateur Sports Protection
Act, a federal statute that restricts sports gambling, a U.S.
Court of Appeals panel in Philadelphia ruled today 2 to 1.  “We are not asked to judge the wisdom of the PASPA or of
New Jersey’s law, or of the desirability of the activities they
seek to regulate,” the court said. “We speak only to the
legality of these measures as a matter of constitutional law.”  Legal sports gambling might generate $1 billion in bets and
as much as $100 million for the state in its first year, William J. Pascrell III, a lobbyist for the measure, said in January.  “We will continue to fight this injustice by either
appealing to the U.S.  Supreme Court  or to the entire Court of
Appeals,” State Senator Raymond J. Lesniak, a sports-betting
advocate, said in an e-mailed statement after the ruling.  Federal appeals court decisions are usually made by three-judge panels, with the loser having the right to ask for a
review by the full court.  During a campaign stop today at a senior citizens picnic in
Paramus, New Jersey, Republican Governor Chris Christie also
said the state will challenge the decision in the Supreme Court.  “Two years ago, the people of New Jersey voted
overwhelmingly” in favor of sports betting, Colin Reed, a
spokesman for the governor, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
governor agrees with his constituents.”  Dissenting View  Reed said the dissenting judge in the ruling agreed with
New Jersey’s central argument that the federal law is
unconstitutional. “This makes the issue all the more
appropriate to be decided by the U.S. Supreme Court,” Reed
said.  The federal government, along with the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association , the  National Football League , the  National
Basketball Association , the  National Hockey League  and  Major
League Baseball , argued that New Jersey’s law would undermine
professional sports’ integrity and violate the federal statute.
That law bans sports betting in all but four states: Nevada,
 Delaware , Montana and  Oregon .  New Jersey countered that the statute violates the state’s
sovereign rights and is unconstitutional. U.S. District Judge
Michael Shipp sided with the federal government and the sports
leagues in February. He barred New Jersey from sponsoring or
operating a betting, gambling or wagering system based on
amateur or professional competitive games.  ‘Contravenes Federalism’  U.S. Circuit Judge Thomas I. Vanaskie today partly
disagreed with his colleagues’ conclusions, saying, “I
respectfully dissent from that part of the majority’s opinion
that upholds PASPA as a constitutional exercise of congressional
authority.”  “By prohibiting states from licensing or authorizing
sports gambling, PASPA dictates the manner in which states must
regulate interstate commerce and thus contravenes the principles
of federalism,” and “conscripts the states as foot soldiers to
implement a congressional policy choice,” Vanaskie wrote.  Lesniak, a Democratic senator, said of Vanaskie’s dissent
that for the first time a judge backed New Jersey, and “that
gives us hope.”  The sports leagues earlier challenged Delaware’s betting
rights and, in 2009, the same appellate court ruled that the
state could offer only “parlay” bets on at least three NFL
games, not single games.  The case is National Collegiate Athletic Association v. New
Jersey, 13-1714,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Third Circuit
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in federal court in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  