-- Nontraded REIT Fundraising This Year Surpasses Record
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-09-17T16:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/nontraded-reit-fundraising-this-year-surpasses-record.html
Investors poured $2.2 billion into
nontraded real estate investment trusts last month, sending 2013
fundraising past a full-year record and returning money to the
industry after payouts from takeovers and public offerings.  Nonlisted equity REITs have raised $12 billion this year,
according to a report from the Investment Program Association,
an Ellicott City, Maryland-based trade group, and investment
bank Robert A. Stanger & Co. That surpasses the previous record
of $11.5 billion raised in 2007, said Kevin Gannon, president
and managing director at Shrewsbury, New Jersey-based Stanger.  Shareholders who received proceeds from nontraded REITs
that were acquired or moved their shares to exchanges this year
are putting money into other nonlisted trusts. Such REITs, which
have a finite life, don’t trade on stock exchanges and are
primarily marketed by brokers to individual investors.  “There’s a mountain of capital freeing up,” Gannon said
in a telephone interview. “It’s all because of liquidity.”  An additional $8 billion of nonlisted REIT liquidations
have been announced, according to the report.  Some of the biggest real estate deals of the year have
involved nontraded REITs.  American Realty Capital Properties
Inc. (ARCP) , a publicly traded single-tenant property landlord, plans
to buy the nontraded American Realty Capital Trust IV in a deal
valued at $3.1 billion. Both are managed by the same firm.  W.P. Carey Inc. (WPC) , an owner of single-tenant buildings and a
sponsor of nonlisted real estate investment trusts, agreed on
July 25 to buy one of the companies it manages in a transaction
valued at about $2.4 billion.  Sponsor Fees  Nontraded REITs typically are managed by a founding
sponsor, which earns fees for services such as overseeing
properties and making acquisitions. The REITs raise funds
through share sales and acquire properties with the proceeds,
with a requirement to eventually return money. Until then, the
shares are generally illiquid and investors collect dividend
payments.  Investors with income and gains from previous investments
are putting money into REITs being marketed by such sponsors as
New York-based American Realty Capital and Phoenix-based  Cole
Real Estate Investments Inc. (COLE) , Gannon said in the report.  Nontraded REITs return money to shareholders through
“liquidity events” such as the sale of real estate, a takeover
or being listed on a stock exchange. Five liquidity events
happened this year through August, returning more than $12
billion to investors, according to the report.  In August 2012, nontraded REIT sponsors raised $1.2
billion, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  