-- Norway Seen Signaling Higher Rates After Halting Krone Rally
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-09-18T08:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/norway-seen-signaling-higher-rates-after-defeating-krone-rally.html
Norway’s central bank will probably
signal it will raise interest rates sooner than previously
predicted next year and scrap a probability it will ease after
prevailing in its battle to weaken the krone.  Norges Bank will leave its overnight deposit rate at 1.5
percent in a decision scheduled to be announced at 10 a.m.
tomorrow in Oslo, according to all 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  DNB ASA (DNB) ,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and
SEB AB, all primary dealers that trade with the central bank,
predict that the bank will revise its rate forecast higher.  “We think the rate path will be raised by up to 75 basis
points, and that it will imply a rate hike already in March next
year,” Erlend Loedemel, chief economist at Arctic Securities,
an Oslo-based investment bank, said in an e-mail. “We suspect
the krone could strengthen and that interest rates will rise
slightly.”  Governor Oeystein Olsen has kept rates unchanged for more
than a year while signaling as recently as June that policy
makers were prepared to ease to prevent krone strength from
hurting exporters and cooling inflation too much. The krone has
since slid and underlying  inflation  in western Europe’s biggest
oil producer surged to 2.5 percent in August, hitting the target
for the first time in four years.  The krone was little changed at 7.8912 per euro as of 10:13
a.m. in Oslo.  ‘Upside Bias’  The bank in June predicted that its benchmark rate will be
1.38 percent in the fourth quarter of this year and remain below
the current level until the fourth quarter of 2014. The forecast
at the time implied a 50 percent chance of a rate cut this
month, according to Nordea Bank.  “We expect a higher interest rate path, due to higher
inflation and a weaker krone,” said  Kyrre Aamdal , an analyst at
DNB, Norway’s largest bank. “We forecast a near-term upside
bias and the first hike in the third quarter 2014.”  Bets on lower rates have evaporated. Three-month forward-rate agreements maturing in March 2014 rose to about 1.79
percent yesterday, up from 1.67 percent in mid-July. The
contract settles to the Norwegian interbank offered rate, which
was at 1.74 percent. The contract maturing in December next year
traded at 2.10 percent, signaling a quarter-point increase.  The krone has lost almost 7 percent against the euro this
year, paring some of the gains since 2009. The krone slid on
rate warnings and as it lost its haven allure after the euro
area emerged from its record recession in the second quarter. On
a trade-weighted basis the krone hit the highest since at least
1999 in February, and has since weakened 6.3 percent.  Advising Against  A potential move toward higher rates comes as  Norway ’s $500
billion economy is struggling with a slowing expansion just as
the rest of Europe surfaces. The central bank said last week
that most areas of enterprise in the country, including oil
suppliers, have lowered growth estimates since the start of the
year and predicted “moderate growth” over the next six months.  Bernt Christian Brun, chief strategist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) 
in Oslo, said in note that that the bank will at most revise its
rate path to 1.5 percent over the next couple of months , and is
likely to keep a probability for a cut over “the next months.”  The country’s main business group, NHO, warned yesterday
that it would be the wrong time to start guiding for higher
rates as the krone’s slide has provided relief. The Norwegian
Confederation of Industry forecast that the mainland economy,
which excludes oil and gas output, will expand 2 percent this
year and next year.  Unemployment (NOLBRATE)  will be 3.75 percent this year
and rise to 4 percent next year, NHO said.  “Any talk of raising interest rates would be detrimental
to economic developments and we would advise very strongly
against it,” said Dag Aarnes, a director at the business group,
in an interview. “If it’s lasting and if the kroner settles at
a lower level, that would be a good thing for Norway. Many of
our export businesses are under a lot of pressure these days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  