-- Nucor Sees Improved Third-Quarter Profit on Steel Prices
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-09-17T20:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/nucor-sees-improved-third-quarter-profit-on-steel-prices.html
Nucor Corp. (NUE) , the largest U.S.
steelmaker by market value, said third-quarter profit may rise
as steel prices increase because of competitors’ plant outages.  Quarterly earnings will be 35 to 40 cents a share, compared
with 35 cents a year earlier, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company said in a statement today. The average of 17
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was for 40 cents. Per-share results include a 3-cent inventory credit, the company
said.  “Sheet steel profitability improved compared to the second
quarter as a result of competitor supply disruptions, customer
inventory restocking and some market demand improvement,” the
company said. Demand is strongest for energy and automotive
goods, while non-residential construction markets “are slowly
improving from historically low levels.”    The price of hot-rolled steel coil in the U.S. Midwest, a
benchmark steel product, has climbed 1.7 percent to average $646
a short ton this quarter, from $635 in the same period last
year.  U.S. Steel, the nation’s largest producer of the metal by
volume, locked out union workers at its Erie Works plant in
April amid a contract dispute that was resolved in August. AK
Steel Holding Corp. had a mechanical failure in June at its
blast furnace in Middletown,  Ohio , halting production at the
plant, according to the company.  Nucor rose 0.4 percent to $49.47 at the close in  New York ,
the highest price since January 2010.  The company also reported increased startup costs at an
iron-processing plant it’s building in  Louisiana , scheduled to
begin operations this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  