-- Obamacare Blamed by Seniors for High Costs, Medicare Changes
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-09-17T20:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/obamacare-blamed-by-seniors-for-higher-costs-medicare-changes.html
More than half of senior citizens
surveyed mistakenly attributed rising costs of their medicines
to Obamacare, according to  Express Scripts Holding Co. (ESRX) , a
misunderstanding that is contributing to the law’s  unpopularity .  While the Affordable Care Act lowers drug costs for
Medicare recipients who fall into a coverage gap and provides
certain vaccines and preventative screenings for free, about
half of those surveyed are cutting back spending on food, travel
and health care in anticipation of higher medical expenses,
according to the  survey  released today by St. Louis-based
 Express Scripts , the biggest U.S. processor of prescriptions.  Medicare has been providing taxpayer-funded health care to
the elderly since 1965, while the 2010 Affordable Care Act
targets working-age adults. A major provision of the new law is
the creation of insurance exchanges where people under 65 years
old can buy coverage starting Oct. 1. About 20 percent of
seniors surveyed thought they would be able to shop on the
exchanges.  “They don’t understand that Medicare is different and
isn’t really changing with the exception that there has been a
move to preventative care and more use of medications,” said
Rebecca Rabbitt, vice president of government programs at
Express Scripts. “That message has been lost, if not absent,
from a lot of the dialogue.”  Largest Overhaul  The $1.3 trillion Affordable Care Act is the largest
regulatory overhaul of health care since the debut of Medicare
in the 1960s.  Kathleen Sebelius , the U.S. secretary of Health
and Human Services, and other Obama administration officials
have said that Republican lawmakers opposed to the law have been
contributing to “misinformation.”  For many seniors with Medicare, the law will save them
money rather than increase their costs, Rabbitt said. By 2020,
the so-called doughnut hole, a gap in prescription drug coverage
that increases out-of-pocket costs, will be eliminated and is
already being reduced. The law also includes free preventative
care like certain vaccines and screenings, Rabbitt said.  More than 6.6 million Medicare beneficiaries saved more
than $7 billion on their  prescription drugs  since the law was
enacted, the  Department of Health  and Human Services said in
July. The law requires drugmakers to discount covered brand-name
Part D medicines sold to beneficiaries in the coverage gap and
provides subsidies for the covered therapies to those
beneficiaries that rise to 25 percent in 2020 from 2.5 percent
in 2013.  Skipping Care  Yet 20 percent said they are skipping doctor appointments
and delaying medication refills in anticipation of higher costs,
the survey found. Almost half are considering temporary
employment to help cover new expenses.  Though the law makes no changes to Medicare eligibility or
enrollment, about one-third of seniors mistakenly believe it
raises the eligibility age, the survey found. About 17 percent
said it was likely the exchanges would replace Medicare.  The supporters of the law have focused on getting
information out to those without insurance who will be required
starting Jan. 1 to buy coverage or pay a penalty. The supporters
have particularly targeted the young and healthy, who need to
enroll in insurance to help offset costs from older, sicker
populations expected to flood the markets.  Express Scripts commissioned the survey in August of more
than 1,000 seniors enrolled in Medicare or who will soon be
eligible for the program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  