-- Obama Names Pick for Justice Department Criminal Chief
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-09-17T20:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/obama-names-pick-for-justice-department-criminal-chief.html
President  Barack Obama  has selected
Leslie Caldwell as the U.S. Justice Department’s next criminal
division chief, according to a White House statement.  Caldwell, a partner at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP and the
former head of the department’s Enron Task Force, would be the
permanent replacement for Lanny Breuer, who departed in March.  A former assistant U.S. attorney in New York and criminal
division chief in a California U.S. attorney’s office, Caldwell
in 2002 became the director of the task force investigating the
failure of the Houston, Texas-based energy company.  The nomination marks the latest Obama administration effort
to fill Senate-confirmable vacancies at the Justice Department.
The openings at one point left Attorney General Eric Holder
without permanent appointees in at least six top positions.  Caldwell, if confirmed, will take the lead of the country’s
top criminal prosecution unit, which includes almost 500
attorneys and has a broad jurisdiction, ranging from public
corruption and corporate fraud to organized crime and child
sexual exploitation.  The position would mark a return to the department for
Caldwell after almost a decade. She left in 2004, after two
years leading the Enron task force. Over the four years of its
existence, the task force brought charges against 36 defendants,
including former chief executive officers Jeffrey Skilling and
Kenneth Lay and 25 other former Enron executives.  Mythili Raman, a career prosecutor and Breuer’s former
chief of staff, has led the division on an acting basis since
his departure. Under Raman’s watch, U.S. prosecutors brought the
largest money laundering case in the department’s history,
charging Liberty Reserve, a digital currency company, in May.  Raman’s prosecutors also secured the first joint
international foreign bribery enforcement action with French
authorities and continued investigations into banks and traders
for the alleged rigging of global interest rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  