-- Obama Extends Minimum Wage to 2 Million Home Health Aides
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-09-18T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/obama-extends-minimum-wage-to-2-million-home-health-aides.html
Overturning a decades-old
exemption, the U.S. Department of Labor has extended  minimum
wage  and overtime benefits to the mostly female and minority
workforce of nearly 2 million home health-care workers.  The  Fair Labor Standards Act  will be extended to direct
care workers, U.S. Secretary of Labor  Thomas Perez  said Tuesday
on a conference call with reporters. Those affected by the rule
will receive the same protections as people providing similar
services in hospitals and nursing homes, effective Jan. 1, 2015.  “Home-care workers are no longer treated like teenage
babysitters providing casual services under this rule,” Perez
said. “A fair wage will further stabilize and professionalize
this critical line of work.”  The move was opposed by the Washington-based U.S. Chamber
of Commerce, which said it would make home-health care too
expensive for some. The cost of the rule will average $6.8
million a year over a 10-year period, the department said. It
was backed by a broad coalition of groups that advocate for low-wage workers, according to Sarah  Leberstein , a staff attorney
with National Employment Law Project in New York.  Congress extended benefits to domestic workers when it
amended the Fair Labor Standards Act in 1974. The measure
included a narrow exemption for babysitters and workers who
provide “companionship” services that the Labor Department
later interpreted to include direct-care workers, Leberstein
said.  State Protections  “Part of the problem was this just wasn’t a huge workforce
at that time,” Leberstein said in an interview. “People really
hadn’t conceived this exemption as covering people who do this
as their profession.”  Fifteen states already provide wage and hour protections
under state law. Workers covered by the rule are predominantly
women in their mid-forties or older or minorities, the Labor
Department said.  Republican representatives  John Kline  of  Minnesota  and Tim Walberg of Michigan said the decision circumvents an exemption
enacted by Congress to help seniors and people with disabilities
get the care they need at home.  The “regulatory action by the Department of Labor will
raise costs and limit access to in-home care for vulnerable
Americans,” they said in a joint statement. “Faced with higher
costs, some individuals will have no choice but to leave their
homes and enter institutional living.”  Marc Freedman, executive director of labor policy for the 
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, expressed disappointment with the 
department's move, which he said “contradicts the will of 
Congress.”  Dire Predictions  “The result will be that these services, that are being 
relied upon by more and more of our older and disabled parents, 
relatives, and friends, will be too expensive and beyond their 
reach,” Freedman said in an e-mailed statement.   Such dire predictions were not borne out in meetings the
department held with business owners, according to Laura
Fortman, principal deputy administrator for the department’s
wage and hour division. The effective date of the rule was
pushed back to give families that use home-care workers and
state Medicaid programs time to prepare, she said.  Regulations often take effect 60 days after being issued.  “Companionship was originally described as similar to
babysitting,’ Fortman said on the conference call. “This
occupation has grown dramatically and changed. These are
professional workers who are providing critical services.”  The National Association for Home Care & Hospice said the
ruling will lead to a reduced level of care.  Union Backing  “Home care companies will have little choice but to employ
workers part time rather than full time as Medicaid payment
rates and consumers with limited incomes cannot afford higher
costs,” Andrea Devoti, chairman of the Washington-based trade
association, said in a statement. “It will trigger great harm
to many of this nation’s most vulnerable citizens.”  The rule “finally recognizes the value of the work done by
millions of people who take care of our aging parents as well as
our sisters, brothers and children with disabilities,”  Richard Trumka , president of the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor
federation, said in a statement.  The decision grants overtime and minimum wage rights to a
broad swath of home-care workers, including home health aides,
personal care aides, personal assistants, home attendants,
companions, personal care staff, resident care aides, and
direct-support professionals.  “It’s been a long time coming, we think it’s very
significant and an important step in the right direction,” said
Elise Nakhnikian, a spokeswoman for the  Direct Care Alliance ,
Inc., a New York-based advocacy group for direct-care workers.
“It’s one of the fastest growing industries in the country. The
average wage they make is less than $10 an hour. That’s not
much.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  