-- Obama Pick to Head FERC Draws Rebuke From Republican Senator
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-09-17T20:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/obama-pick-to-head-ferc-draws-opposition-from-republican-senator.html
Senator  Lisa Murkowski  said she
won’t support the confirmation of President  Barack Obama ’s
choice to lead the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,
raising uncertainty about the agency’s future leadership.  “At this point in time, I’m not prepared to support your
nomination,” Murkowski, of  Alaska , told Ron Binz at the end of
his confirmation hearing before the Senate Energy and Natural
Resources Committee in Washington today.  Murkowski, the ranking Republican on the committee, said
Binz hadn’t demonstrated that he could be an impartial
regulator, and she questioned his candor in discussing with her
a public-relations push in support of his nomination.  Her decision not to support Binz, combined with an
uncertain vote from Democratic Senator  Joe Manchin  of  West
Virginia , casts doubt over whether Binz, 64, will survive the
nomination process. Binz, a former chairman of the Colorado
Public Utilities Commission, has been the object of a public-relations battle between free-market and coal-industry groups,
who want to block his nomination, and clean-energy organizations
who support him.  Binz’s supporters and opponents had entirely different
interpretations of the hearing.  “Based on his record and what we heard today, we hope Ron
Binz will be confirmed by the  U.S. Senate ,” Malcolm Woolf,
senior vice president of Advanced Energy Economy, an association
for clean-energy companies, said in a statement. “He continues
to show himself to be pragmatic and moderate, and well qualified
to lead FERC.”  ‘Rock Solid’  Benjamin Cole, a spokesman for the American Energy
Alliance, a Washington-based advocacy group that opposes Binz’s
nomination, said “it appears that Republicans are rock solid”
against the nominee. “In the end, it looks like Binz cooked
himself” because Murkowski questioned whether the nominee was
completely forthcoming, Cole said in an e-mailed statement.  Murkowski said Binz told her in a recent meeting that the
FERC external relations office was the only group helping to
support his nomination. She said, however, recent FERC e-mails
obtained during a Freedom of Information Act request showed that
he effectively had “a shadow team of lobbyists and PR experts
that have been helping throughout” the process.  “I hate to think that this is going to be the new
normal,” Murkowski said.  Clean Energy  The Green Tech Action Fund, a San Francisco-based clean-energy nonprofit, had hired VennSquared Communications LLC of
 Washington  to advocate on his behalf.  “I have hired no one; I’m paying no one,” Binz told
Murkowski, offering his apologies. “I did not intentionally
mean to mislead you.”  Binz said he hasn’t been in contact with VennSquared since
July 15 and asked the political consultancy to stop sending out
material on his behalf.  The nominee, who described himself as a “solo
practitioner” when a consultant, said he sought administrative
support after he was nominated, and that he had disclosed e-mails to the Senate committee to show who was advising him.  Colorado Law  Binz’s critics say he had an improper advisory role in the
creation of a 2010 Colorado law that encouraged the conversion
of coal plants to natural gas, benefiting power company  Xcel
Energy Inc. (XEL)  at customers’ expense.  Murkowski’s opposition -- and the likelihood that other
Republicans will follow her lead -- means efforts to persuade
lawmakers will focus on Manchin and Senator  Mary Landrieu , a
Louisiana Democrat whose state is a hub for the oil and natural
gas industries.  Manchin, a Democrat who comes from a coal-producing state
and whose vote is crucial in order for Binz to pass the
nomination process, said the coal industry needs allies in
Washington. While Manchin told Binz he is “concerned about some
of your past performances,” he didn’t say how he would vote.  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat who leads the Senate
panel, pre-empted criticism of Binz from the coal community.  “FERC has no authority to regulate coal,” he said in his
opening remarks.  The FERC’s responsibilities include overseeing the
reliability of the nation’s electric grid, regulating interstate
transport of natural gas and reviewing electric utility mergers.
Congress in 2005 expanded the agency’s enforcement power to help
it police energy markets.  This year, the five-member commission has sought more than
$900 million in penalties and settlements from banks including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  on charges of market
manipulation.  “I am a little worried that some of my colleagues may hold
up your nomination and leave the FERC at the end of the year
with a 2-2 person board and somehow get stymied on your overall
functions and responsibilities,” Senator  Maria Cantwell , a
Washington Democrat, told Binz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  