-- Obama and Assad Buy a Precious Commodity: Time
-- B y   F o u a d   A j a m i
-- 2013-09-17T17:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/obama-and-assad-buy-a-precious-commodity-time.html
Asli Aydintasbas, a young Turkish
columnist with steely nerves and a keen grasp of Middle Eastern
politics, sent a note from Istanbul to a Hoover Institution blog
where it will be published later this month. Her title tells the
story: “Where Have the Americans Gone? Who Invited the Russians
Back?”  It was mission accomplished for  John Kerry  and  Sergei Lavrov . Their diplomacy, so full of twists and surprises and a
stunning American reversal, delivered a way out of a tight
corner for the two dramatis personae in this Syrian drama,
 Barack Obama  and Bashar al-Assad.  For Obama, this eleventh-hour reprieve came after all his
options had led to a blind alley. He had threatened to bomb
Syria without having his heart in the thing. He had wanted
Congress implicated in the decision to order the strikes, but
defeat on  Capitol Hill  seemed a certainty.  He had cast about for foreign allies, yet he had always
been a loner, and he was to meet the usual evasions within the
councils of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. A dreadful
war had been raging in  Syria  for 30 long months. Obama finally
took his stand, drew his red line, on the violence and cruelty
of a single day, Aug. 21, when rockets containing the nerve
agent sarin hit the Damascus suburb of Ghouta.  Benign neglect of Syria had not worked: It was either an
“unbelievably small” strike on Syria -- Kerry’s words -- or
abject retreat. It was then that the Russians offered Obama an
exit he was more than eager to accept.  Terrible Choreography  He was flexibility itself. The choreography was terrible,
but he could live with it. He was more interested in results
than style points, he said. Let the naysayers proclaim he was
being played by  Vladimir Putin ; his own spinners would say that
the retreat was evidence of his ability to take in new
information.  Assad, too, was spared. The Syrian dictator could not be
sure of what would befall him and his regime in the face of U.S.
strikes. True, there was the Kerry assurance about the
“unbelievably small” attack the administration had been
readying for him. There were also the countless messages
conveyed by U.S. officials that the regime itself would not be
the target of a strike, that American diplomacy didn’t trust the
opposition to his regime -- even saw the more viable of his
opponents as jihadists who would impose a reign of darkness were
the regime to fall.  All this was in the scales, but Assad knew the fate that
had overtaken  Saddam Hussein  in  Iraq  and  Muammar Qaddafi  in
 Libya . In their domains, these dictators had preened and
strutted, and they warned of the hell and the fire that would
sweep the Arab world were they to be attacked, of the calamity
and reversals that would await U.S. forces. Hussein had been the
big neighbor next door and had meekly come out of a spider hole
to be sent to the gallows three years later. Qaddafi’s end had
been particularly gruesome; the bluster and the money and the
mercenaries and the secret tunnels had not protected him.  A tyrant who hails from a despised minority sect, the
Alawites, who had inflicted death and ruin on his country, Assad
wasn’t eager to try his luck in the face of the U.S. missiles.
Several days of strikes could embolden the Sunni Damascenes,
hitherto quiescent in the face of Alawite repression.  The crowd could find its nerve and courage and storm his
hideout; the edifice of tyranny built by his father could crack.
In the world he ruled -- what remains of it -- a reprieve
offered by the Russians could be passed off as victory. Thus a
regime that (by its pronouncements) neither owned chemical
stockpiles, nor used them, was ready to sign off on a U.S.-
Russian proposal to inspect, then destroy, these stockpiles.  American Retreat  Assad bought the most precious of commodities: time. He had
waited out the early victories of the opposition. Help from
 Iran , and from the Hezbollah movement, had spared him certain
defeat. The retreat of the Americans would serve as a reminder
to the rebellion that the powers aren’t done with him, that the
West won’t redeem and arm the rebels.  In a flash, Assad was willing to sign and ratify the
Chemical Weapons Convention. A hermetically sealed realm, he
declared, would now be open for international inspectors. That
pledge needn’t worry him: It was a reasonable bet that the
crisis would blow over, that the Americans would weary of the
matter of Syria. Let the foreign inspectors scour the chicken
coops in the country, let them search the remote Alawite hamlets
where stockpiles could be stored and hidden. Assad will have
lived to fight another day.  Obama brought to this crisis a willingness to live with a
good measure of second-guessing and ridicule. His bet was that
the country had changed, that the time-honored notions of
American “credibility” no longer held sway. He had been
elected to end wars, not to start them, he had declared time and
again. The traditions of rescue of nations in distress, he
seemed to imply, have died out in American thought and practice.  He is a diminished figure after this debacle. But his
devotees never tire. They see wisdom and prudence in the
retreat. It is enough for them that Obama isn’t  George W. Bush ,
and that Syria isn’t about to become an American burden.  (Fouad Ajami is a senior fellow at Stanford University’s
Hoover Institution and author of “The Syrian Rebellion.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Fouad Ajami at  mjring@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 