-- Oil Group Head Says Tax-Code Revamp Unlikely to Pass
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-09-17T17:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/oil-group-head-says-tax-code-revamp-unlikely-to-pass.html
A divided U.S. Congress probably
won’t agree to revamping the  tax code  this year, according to
the head of the American Petroleum Institute, which is lobbying
to protect breaks for the oil and gas industry.  Speaking at a Bloomberg Government breakfast, API Chief
Executive Officer Jack Gerard said he doubts that Congress will
agree to major changes in the corporate  tax rate , given the
political divisions between the Democratic-controlled Senate and
the Republican-led House.  That may give the industry time to lobby in support of
breaks that it gets, including one that allows companies to
expense or deduct the costs of drilling a well. Gerard said any
changes to the U.S. tax code must be equitable and not single
out oil companies more than other businesses.  “We argue just treat us fairly, treat us the same as all
other industries, don’t single us out for punitive treatment,”
Gerard said. Curtailing the break for intangible drilling costs,
for example, may mean less domestic production of oil and gas,
he said.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has proposed
repealing oil-and-gas industry tax breaks totaling $41 billion
over the next decade. The administration would use the proceeds
to reduce the corporate tax rate to 28 percent from 35 percent,
and to 25 percent for manufacturers.  Gerard said oil companies would support tax changes that
“make the U.S. more cost competitive.”  Keystone Delays  Gerard, whose group includes major oil companies including
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  in Irving, Texas, and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  in San
Ramon, California, also criticized the administration for not
yet approving the Keystone XL pipeline.  TransCanada Corp., (TRP)  based in Calgary, first applied for a
permit to construct the line from Alberta to refineries in the
U.S. Gulf Coast five years ago.  A southern leg is nearing completion. TransCanada reapplied
to construct the top half from the  oil sands  to  Steele City ,
Nebraska, where it would connect with other pipelines, after
Obama rejected the original route in January 2012.  “It’s unfortunate that it’s gone on so long,” Gerard
said. “The president talks about job creation. He’s got the
biggest one sitting right in his lap, standing right in front of
him. All he has to do is say, ‘Yes,’ and we move forward.”  The State Department is reviewing the permit because it
crosses an international border. It is working to complete its
environmental review of the project.  In an address on  climate change  in June, Obama said he
wouldn’t approve the project if it was found to significantly
exacerbate carbon pollution.  A draft State Department-directed environmental analysis
said Keystone wouldn’t promote large greenhouse gas emissions
because the oil sands in Alberta would be developed even if the
pipeline wasn’t built.  Environmentalists have said the analysis underplays the
importance of Keystone XL on Alberta development. The mining and
use of bitumen from the oil sands releases more  greenhouse gases 
than other forms of drilling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  