-- Olympic Athletes in Tokyo Risk Hottest Weather in 120 Years
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2013-09-18T04:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/olympic-athletes-in-tokyo-risk-hottest-temperatures-in-120-years.html
Olympic athletes risk the hottest
weather in more than a century at the 2020  Tokyo  Games as high
summer temperatures in Japan’s capital highlight concern about
holding global sporting events under extreme conditions.  Tokyo is set to host its second Olympics in July and
August, the  hottest months  in the city, where  temperatures 
soared to 38 degrees Celsius (100 degrees Fahrenheit) last
month. FIFA, soccer’s global ruling body, will meet next month
to discuss switching the 2022 World Cup to Qatar’s winter amid
concerns the summer heat would be unsafe for players and fans.  A temperature of 38 degrees Celsius or higher during the
men’s marathon at the Tokyo Olympics would make it the hottest
in at least 120 years. The warmest marathon in the history of
the Games took place in 1900 in Paris, when more than half the
runners had to withdraw due to exhaustion as temperatures were
estimated at between 35 degrees and 39 degrees, according to the
 Journal of Sports Sciences .  “It is unwise to plan an event in such extreme
conditions,” said  George Havenith , professor of environmental
physiology and ergonomics at the U.K.’s Loughborough University,
who has visited Tokyo several times in the summer. “There also
is an increased risk for the spectators.”  Higher Humidity  In addition, higher humidity in Tokyo makes summer
temperatures feel hotter than in climates like Athens, where
there’s less moisture in the air, according to Tadayuki Iwaya, a
Tokyo-based meteorologist at  Weather Caster Network .  The temperature would feel like 63 degrees Celsius should
the mercury hit 38 degrees Celsius with Tokyo’s average 71
percent humidity, according to the U.S. National Weather
Service’s  Heat Index calculator . In comparison, the average
daily high of 33.2 degrees Celsius and 45.3 percent humidity in
 Athens  in August, when it held the marathon in the 2004, would
feel like 35 degrees Celsius, according to the index.  The previous time Tokyo staged the Olympic Games, in 1964,
it held them in October, when the mean daily high was 19.6
degrees Celsius,  data from the Japan Meteorological Agency  show.
Tokyo’s mean highs were 31.4 degrees in July this year and 33.2
last month.  Hisao Shuto, a spokesman for the Tokyo 2020 Bid Committee,
said an organizing committee will be set up in February to
decide details of the Olympics in Japan.  Tokyo Proposal  The IOC said the preferred period for the Games were
between July 15 and Aug. 31, though it would consider
applications outside of those dates, according to a report last
year from the Lausanne, Switzerland-based body.  Japan  proposed the Olympic Games be held from July 24 to
Aug. 9, 2020, in its  plan  for the event. Istanbul suggested Aug.
7 to Aug. 23, 2020, and  Madrid  the same dates, according to an
International Olympic Committee  report  on the bids.  Doha, which didn’t make the shortlist of candidates,
applied to host the 2020 Games between Sept. 20 and Oct. 20, and
the IOC accepted the period in principle, according to a  report 
from the body.  “The health of the athletes is clearly a top priority for
the IOC, but at this stage it is too early to comment on any
specific measures, such as holding the marathon in the morning
at Beijing 2008,” Andrew Mitchell, media relations manager for
the IOC said in an e-mail.  October Games  Other countries have held the Olympics at later dates.
Sydney held the Olympics in late September to early October in
2000, as did  Seoul  in 1988, while  Mexico  held the Games in
October 1968.  FIFA President Sepp Blatter faces opposition to
rescheduling the 2022 World Cup from Europe’s biggest soccer
leagues, clubs, and broadcasting rights owner, which are
concerned changing the dates would disrupt national leagues and
clash with other sporting events.  FIFA may have “made a mistake” in awarding the World Cup
to Qatar in the summer, Blatter told  Inside World Football .  U.S. Soccer President Sunil Gulati said last week FIFA
officials should have held more discussions about Qatar’s summer
climate before the Middle Eastern country was awarded hosting
rights in December 2010.  Heatstroke Deaths  The combination of humidity and heat in Japan could be
debilitating as athletes seek to compete at the highest level.
More than a dozen people in Japan died of heatstroke and
thousands were hospitalized last month when Tokyo’s high climbed
to 38 degrees.  “The longer the event, typically the higher the risk of
accumulation of heat in the body, with possible symptoms of heat
exhaustion or even heatstroke in the worst case,” said
Loughborough University’s Havenith. The 10-kilometer race and
the marathon would be among those posing the biggest risk, he
said.  The Texas-based  University Interscholastic League , created
by the University of Texas to provide guidance to athletic
teachers, has produced manuals with recommendations to coaches
on how much exercise to do during summer months, including
limits on how many hours and how frequently student athletes can
practice.  “The maximum length of any single practice session is
three hours,” said Kate Hector, a spokeswoman for UIL. “All of
these rules were created to help prevent heat illness or heat
related injuries.”  Marathon Race  At the Athens Olympics women’s marathon in 2004,  eight of
the 66 women  who finished the course took more than three hours,
according to Marathon Guide. Temperatures reached 95 degrees
Fahrenheit during the race.  “Running a marathon would be especially difficult,”
Weather Caster’s Iwaya said. “Even regular exercise is
difficult in that heat.”  At least  six athletes  died during a 2011 heat wave in the
U.S. south, according to a report from ABC News.  Tokyo’s August average high and humidity this year
generated a heat index of 112 degrees Fahrenheit (44 degrees
Celsius), according to the U.S.  National Weather Service , which
designates that level as a  “danger” zone  for prolonged
exposure or strenuous activity.  “Tokyo could try changing the times of events to cooler
periods,” Iwaya said. “But it’s already 30 degrees Celsius in
the morning.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  