-- Hong Kong Stocks Fall Before Fed Meeting; Wing Hang Soars
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-09-17T08:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/hong-kong-stocks-fall-before-fed-meeting-wing-hang-soars.html
Hong Kong  stocks  fell, with the
benchmark index sliding after the biggest advance in two weeks,
before the  Federal Reserve  begins a policy meeting today at
which it’s expected to trim stimulus.  Wing Hang Bank Ltd. (302)  soared
after saying shareholders were approached in a takeover bid.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore oil explorer, slid 1
percent as crude prices fell.  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) ,
the casino operator controlled by billionaire Lui Che-woo,
slumped 2.2 percent after yesterday rising to a record high.
Wing Hang surged 39 percent to lead gains among family-run
lenders including  Dah Sing Banking Group Ltd. (2356)   The  Hang Seng Index  lost 0.3 percent to 23,180.52 at the
close in Hong Kong, with volume 19 percent lower than the 30-day
average. Shares jumped yesterday after former U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Lawrence Summers  withdrew from consideration to lead
the central bank. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , also
known as the H-share index, slipped 0.5 percent to 10,650.64.  “Yesterday the market overreacted to Summers’s exit from
the competition from Fed chairmanship,” said Lewis Wan, Hong
Kong-based chief investment officer at Pride Investments Group
Ltd. “Today we’re having a minor correction but overall the
trend itself is on the upside, especially for the Hong Kong
market because the Chinese economy is recovering.”  The H-share index entered a bull market last week after
rebounding more than 20 percent from a June low, while the  Hang
Seng Index (HSI)  erased its 2013 loss. China data including exports
and factory output added to signs the world’s second-biggest
economy is strengthening. Hong Kong’s equity benchmark traded at
11.1 times estimated earnings, compared with 15.36 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Fed Meeting  The Federal Open Market Committee meets today and tomorrow
to consider whether to cut its $85 billion in monthly bond
buying, with economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicting a $10
billion reduction in the pace.  Futures on the  S&P 500  fell 0.2 percent today. The equity
gauge added 0.6 percent yesterday in New York after Summers
opened the way for  Janet Yellen , who some investors say may
favor slower tapering of stimulus, to possibly lead the central
bank. Oil prices slid as tensions over Syria’s chemical weapons
eased after the U.S. and Russia agreed on a plan demanding
destruction of the arms.  West Texas Intermediate crude futures fell as much as 0.9
percent after closing yesterday at the lowest in three weeks.
Cnooc slumped 1 percent to HK$16.04. PetroChina Co., the
nation’s biggest energy company, declined 0.7 percent to
HK$8.76.  Family Banks  Wing Hang surged a record 39 percent to HK$116.80. Major
shareholders including members of Chairman Patrick Fung’s family
and related trusts are holding preliminary talks for a sale that
would trigger a mandatory buyout offer, the bank said in a
filing to Hong Kong’s stock exchange yesterday.  Wing Hang joins  Chong Hing Bank Ltd. (1111)  in acquisition talks
as the city’s role as an international  yuan  center attracts
mainland financial institutions seeking overseas expansion.
Chong Hing, Hong Kong’s smallest family-run lender, yesterday
closed at a record high after the Oriental Daily newspaper
reported that the sale of a stake may be decided this week. The
stock rose 3.3 percent to HK$32.75 today.  “Hong Kong is a very good stepping stone, making small
banks a good candidate to invest outside,” Wan at Pride
Investments said. Dah Sing has a high chance of becoming an
acquisition target as there are not many banks left in the city,
he said.  Dah Sing jumped 18 percent to HK$13.32, its biggest gain on
record.  Bank of East Asia Ltd.  advanced 5.7 percent to HK$33.55,
the steepest gain on the Hang Seng Index.  Casino Shares  Galaxy dropped 2.2 percent to HK$54.15, the second-biggest
drop on the Hang Seng Index.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883) , the
Macau venture between Australian billionaire  James Packer  and a
son of casino mogul  Stanley Ho , retreated 3.7 percent to
HK$80.50 after yesterday also closing at a record. Macau-related
stocks jumped yesterday after the city’s assembly polls were
held over the weekend.  “Since the legislative body was elected, investors
perceive it as more stable atmosphere in Macau,” Jackson Wong,
vice president of Hong Kong-based brokerage Tanrich Securities
Co., said yesterday.  The Conference Board’s leading index for China released
today climbed 0.7 percent to 269.3 last month from 267.4 in
July. The nation’s  foreign direct investment  increased 0.6
percent from a year ago in August, the Ministry of Commerce,
less than the 12.5 percent estimated by economists and the 24.1
percent gain in July.  Growth Expectations  Bank of America Merrill Lynch last week joined Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG in
raising predictions for economic expansion in China. The
government has defended its target of 7.5 percent annual growth.  Futures on the  Hong Kong  gauge slid 0.7 percent to 23,174.
The HSI Volatility Index rose 2.8 percent to 17.27, indicating
traders expect the benchmark equity index to swing 5 percent in
the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  