-- Mongolia to Take Areva Uranium Stake to Help Revive Investment
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-09-17T09:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/mongolia-to-take-areva-uranium-stake-to-help-revive-investment.html
Mongolia will take a stake in a
domestic uranium venture led by  France ’s  Areva SA (AREVA)  and support
its development, signaling the nation’s willingness to revive
foreign investment, said Prime Minister Norovyn Altankhuyag.  “Through this we see that foreign investors are continuing
to invest in Mongolia,” Altankhuyag said in an interview in
 Tokyo  on Sept. 14, at the end of a four-day visit.  Mongolia will take a 34 percent share of the uranium mining
unit of Areva Mongol LLC, he said, adding that this is the level
of ownership under domestic law that designates a strategic
deposit. Areva Mongol owns 27 uranium exploration permits in the
country and is seeking to upgrade them to allow mining. It is
negotiating an equity interest with state-owned MonAtom LLC,
according to the Paris-based company’s website. Japan’s largest
trader,  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , is also a potential investor, it said.  Mongolia’s premier is seeking to revive direct foreign
investment, which shrank by 42 percent, or $1 billion, in the
first half of the year, due to stricter regulation of overseas
companies and the government’s dispute with Rio Tinto Group.  The London-based mining company has delayed underground
development of Mongolia’s biggest investment project, the $6.6
billion Oyu Tolgoi copper field, while it negotiates financing
with the government. Mongolia holds 34 percent of Oyu Tolgoi.  Coupled with slowing Chinese demand for Mongolian coal, the
drop in foreign investment has damped economic growth, which
slowed to 11.3 percent in the first half of this year, from 12.4
percent in 2012 and 17.5 percent in 2011. The local currency,
the tugrik, has weakened 18.3 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
this year.  Improve Transparency  The “hiccups” in Mongolia’s economy are not unexpected
and longer-term investors realize that the issues are par for
the course in an emerging market, said Howard Lambert, chief
representative of ING Groep NV in Mongolia, the first foreign
lender to open an office in the country.  “Investors want stability and they want transparency,”
Lambert said in an interview from Ulaanbaatar. “In  emerging
markets  it’s rare to have all those things at the same time and
for extended periods of time.”  Mongolia’s government is aware of the need to improve
stability and transparency and plans to pass new laws soon to
address the issues, Altankhuyag said.  Its parliament begins an extraordinary session this week to
discuss five draft laws seeking to end “discrimination between
foreign and domestic investors,” Mongolian Investment Banking
Group LLC said Sept. 16 in a report.  Strategic Importance  Under one law, the mining, finance and communications
industries would no longer be designated as sectors of strategic
importance, which will make them easier to navigate for
foreigners, Mongolian Investment said.  Consumer goods leasing and financing for agriculture are
two industries outside of resources that have strong potential
to attract foreign investor interest, ING’s Lambert said.  Areva has explored for uranium in Mongolia since 1997 and
has 144 staff in the country, according to its website.
MonAtom’s stake would be in Areva Mongol’s unit, Areva Mines
LLC, the company that will produce the uranium.  Mitsubishi is waiting for Mongolian government approval to
exercise its option on Areva Mongol shares,  Japan ’s biggest
trading company said in an e-mailed response to questions. The
approval is expected in the near future, Mitsubishi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  