-- Looted Icons Seized by Dutch Government Return to Cyprus
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-09-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/looted-icons-seized-by-dutch-government-return-to-cyprus.html
The Dutch government seized four
icons looted from a monastery in northern Cyprus and will hand
them to Cypriot authorities today, according to Walk of Truth,
an organization that campaigns to preserve cultural heritage.  The 16th-century icons portraying the four apostles, valued
at about $200,000, were taken from the medieval Antiphonitis
monastery in 1975. Legal efforts by the Church of Cyprus to
recover the icons failed in 2002 after seven years. A change in
Dutch law in 2007 allowed the government to seize the artworks,
said Tasoula Hadjitofi, the founder of  Walk of Truth .  “We have heard that the icons will be delivered to Cypriot
authorities within 48 hours,” Hadjitofi told delegates at a
Sept. 16 conference in  The Hague . “The Netherlands should be
congratulated for this.”  The Cypriot government says that as many as 100 Greek
Orthodox and Armenian churches in northern Cyprus were looted or
vandalized after the 1974 Turkish invasion. It estimates that
more than 15,000 icons are missing. Some objects have been
recovered in western Europe and the U.S.  The four looted icons of the saints were purchased by an
elderly Dutch couple from an Armenian dealer who visited their
Rotterdam home. When the couple tried to auction the icons in
the 1990s, employees of Christie’s International warned that
they may be stolen. Litigation to recover them began in 1995.  Good Faith  A district court ruled that the Dutch purchaser bought the
icons in good faith and was therefore the rightful owner. The
Court of Appeals found that the claim was time-barred under
statutes of limitations in 2002, according to Rob Polak, the
Amsterdam-based lawyer who represented the Church of Cyprus in
the legal process.  Questions about the ruling were raised in the Dutch
parliament, and in 2007, the Cultural Property Originating From
Occupied Territory Act was passed.  The law bans the import and ownership of cultural property
originating from a territory that was occupied in an armed
conflict after 1959, and allows the Minister of Education,
Culture and Science to seize any such property. In cases where
the owner is deemed to be a good-faith buyer, he may receive
compensation from the Dutch state.  “The  Netherlands  tested its laws, found they were at
fault, and fixed them,” said Hadjitofi, who devoted herself to
recovering looted art after a Dutch dealer approached her
offering to sell stolen Cypriot artifacts. “Maybe other
countries such as  Germany  could learn from this.”  The Dutch Ministry of Education, Culture and Science did
not immediately respond to an e-mailed request for confirmation
and a spokesman could not be reached by telephone.  Frescos, Mosaics  In July, a German court handed over to the Cypriot
government frescos, mosaics and icons looted from churches,
museums and monasteries in Northern Cyprus 16 years after they
were seized by police.  The artifacts were discovered in the Munich apartment of
Aydin Dikmen, a Turkish-born  art dealer , in 1997. Then valued at
30 million deutsche marks ($17 million), they included a mosaic
hacked from the wall of the 6th-century Kanakaria church and a
fresco from the Antiphonitis Church.  After years of legal wrangling, a Munich court determined
in March that 173 of the seized artworks were removed at the
time of the Turkish invasion in 1974.  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech,  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  dining,  Guy Collins 
on wine and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 