-- Motlanthe Says South Africa ANC Isn't Guaranteed Support
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-09-17T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/motlanthe-says-south-africa-anc-isn-t-guaranteed-support.html
South Africa ’s ruling  African
National Congress  isn’t guaranteed support in elections next
year and must work to make its policies relevant to voters,
Deputy President  Kgalema Motlanthe  said.  A reduced majority in polls will be a “wake-up call” for
the ANC, he said in an interview in  London  yesterday. Motlanthe,
64, said he doesn’t plan to have a government role after the
elections.  The ANC, which won close to a two-thirds majority at every
vote since the first multiracial one in 1994, is facing growing
disenchantment from supporters amid a 25.6 percent  unemployment
rate  and widespread poverty. At least four new political parties
have been formed this year, seeking to challenge the ANC’s
dominance.  “No party is guaranteed support simply on the basis of its
glorious history, so the ANC, like in the past, has to go out
and make a case and ensure its manifesto speaks to the concerns
of the people,” Motlanthe said. “If the majority is reduced
that would serve as a wake-up call for the ANC.”  The 100-year-old ANC led the fight against white
segregationist rule and has dominated South African politics
since sweeping to power under  Nelson Mandela  in 1994.  Motlanthe, a former labor union leader who served a decade
in prison for fighting white segregationist rule, has been at
the forefront of South African politics since he was elected the
party’s secretary general in 1997. He failed in a bid to wrest
control of the ANC from President  Jacob Zuma  at the party’s
elective conference in December.  Party Posts  “I can serve the ANC better by giving feedback outside the
hurly burly of government business,” he said. “It’s too early
to say, but I’m on the wrong side age-wise” to continue to
occupy a senior leadership role.  Motlanthe served as president for eight months after the
ANC ousted  Thabo Mbeki  in September 2008, relinquishing the post
to Zuma after April 2009 elections to take up his current
position. Zuma, 71, won 75 percent of the vote in the ANC’s vote
in December and Motlanthe declined nomination for all other
party leadership posts. He agreed instead to head up a new ANC
political school.  The election, which must be held by July, will be the first
time youths who were born after the 1994 vote will be able to
cast ballots.  “There are those young voters who will be voting for the
first time” that have no living memory of white minority rule
under apartheid, Motlanthe said. “Those need to be persuaded”
by the ANC’s track record and election manifesto to vote for the
ruling party, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  