-- How to Spend $342,000 a Year on Homes You Never Visit
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-09-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/how-to-spend-342-000-a-year-on-homes-you-never-visit.html
Huguette Clark, 84, arrived at
 Manhattan ’s Doctors Hospital by ambulance in 1991 anxious,
malnourished and dehydrated, her face disfigured from untreated
skin cancer.  Not your typical heiress whose estate would be valued at
more than $300 million at her death 20 years later.  She was assigned a private-duty nurse, who stayed at her
bedside 12 hours a day, seven days a week.  Clark elected to spend her last two decades in the
hospital. She lavished upon the nurse and her family at least
$31.9 million in cash gifts and property, Bill Dedman and Paul
Clark Newell, Jr. report in their meticulous and absorbing
“ Empty Mansions : The Mysterious Life of Huguette Clark and the
Spending of a Great American Fortune.”  The title refers to Clark’s lavish unused homes, including
three apartments in a limestone Fifth Ave. co-op that she kept
vacant while spending $300,000 a year on hospital care. That’s
42 rooms, excluding bathrooms. Annual maintenance and taxes:
$342,000.  There was also a 23.5-acre  Santa Barbara ,  California ,
estate, Bellosguardo, with 1,000 feet of ocean frontage that she
didn’t visit for 60 years. She kept the bare-bones house staff
to about a half-dozen.  She never moved into a  New Canaan ,  Connecticut , getaway she
purchased in 1951 that grew to 52 acres when she bought land as
a buffer.  Log Cabin  Huguette was the youngest of seven children of William
Andrews Clark. Born in a four-room log cabin on a Pennsylvania
farm in 1839, he became one of the wealthiest Americans of his
day through copper mining and other ventures.  He was as enterprising as Huguette was eccentric and
profligate.  After briefly studying Greek, Latin and law at Iowa
Wesleyan University, he went west to  Colorado  in search of gold,
a five-month, 800-mile trip by ox-drawn carriage.  Later, in  Montana , he thrived by selling flour and tobacco,
lending money and hauling U.S. mail 450 miles from Western
Montana to Walla Walla, in what’s now Washington state.  His foray into copper mining coincided with the advent of
the transatlantic cable, telephone, full-metal-jacket bullet and
commercially practical incandescent light bulb.  “All of these advances in communication, everyday life,
and warfare would depend on W.A. Clark’s copper,” write Dedman
and Newell, whose father was Huguette Clark’s first cousin.  Bribery Scandal  The authors describe W.A. as a tough but fair businessman
but make no excuses for a bribery scandal behind a bid for U.S.
senate. (He resigned but was re-elected.)  After W.A.’s wife died of typhoid fever, a second marriage
to a woman 39 years his junior produced Huguette. Since he ran
his companies essentially as sole proprietorships, the empire
collapsed soon after he died in 1925.  “W.A. failed in succession planning,” Dedman and Newell
write. He left his empire in the care of his children.  From her parents Huguette inherited a passion for the arts
and patronage, cultivated at  New York ’s Spence School. She
painted, played violin and went on to collect Impressionist
masterpiece paintings and Stradivariuses, which along with the
real estate proved to be super investments.  Doll Houses  But something was amiss. A young marriage dissolved
immediately and was perhaps never consummated, based on what she
told people. After her mother and nurse, her closest companion
was an extravagant collection of dolls and doll houses that she
amassed until the end of her life.  “Empty Houses” ends with the ongoing battles over her
money. There was no shortage of suspect behavior -- from
lawyers, hospital administrators and relatives she never met.  While gracious and wildly generous with people she knew,
Huguette was never much of a philanthropist given her resources.
In the book, a relative described the trappings of inherited
money: insecurity, guilt, a lack of self-worth.  “Having immense wealth,” the relative said, “can lead
one to feel isolated and to have a false sense of being
special.”  At least you have someplace to live.  (Philip Boroff is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Greg
Evans  on TV.  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff at   pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 