-- Lloyds Investors Signal U.K. Will Avoid Housing Bubble
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-09-17T14:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/lloyds-investors-signal-u-k-will-avoid-housing-bubble.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  investors
are betting that U.K. house prices will continue to rise across
the country as the economy recovers.  The Treasury yesterday sold 3.2 billion pounds ($5.1
billion) of shares in Lloyds, Britain’s biggest mortgage lender,
leaving the government with a profit of 61 million pounds. The
sale was about three times oversubscribed, according to a person
with knowledge of the sale who asked not to be identified
because the information hasn’t been disclosed.  “A play on Lloyds is a play on U.K. house-price inflation
and particularly on the housing market pickup rolling out
nationally,” said Colin McLean, who oversees about 600 million
pounds as managing director at SVM Asset Management Ltd. in
Edinburgh. McLean said he bought Lloyds shares at the sale.  Lloyds has been buoyed by the country’s economic recovery
and reviving property demand. U.K. house-price inflation
accelerated to 3.3 percent in July from 3.1 percent in June,
with London prices jumping 9.7 percent, data showed today.  The stake sale, the first since a 20 billion-pound bailout
in 2008, came amid rising concern that the government’s Help-to-Buy program introduced earlier this year to award people with
minimal savings with interest-free loans for the purchase of
newly built homes, could spark a price bubble.  ‘Property-Driven Boom’  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  said
Sept. 10 “there is the risk of a property-driven boom.”  “The regulators are on it and don’t intend to let it
happen, but these things can be difficult to control,” said
Jenkins, who oversees Britain’s second-largest bank by assets.  U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable has called on the
government to review a second part of Help to Buy, giving banks
guarantees on mortgages for purchasers of both new and existing
homes from January. The policy will allow people to buy a house
with a deposit of as little as 5 percent of the property value.  Cable’s comments follow similar warnings from the
 International Monetary Fund  and former  Bank of England  Governor
 Mervyn King  about the risks associated with the program.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  earlier this month
called it “sensible” and necessary to help the market.  Adding to signs of recovery, the  unemployment rate  fell in
the three months through July and jobless claims dropped more
than economists forecast in August. The economy grew at the
fastest rate in more than three years in the three months
through August, according to an estimate from the National
Institute of Economic and Social Research.  ‘Right Time’  Lloyds shares have risen about 57 percent this year, making
them the best performer among the U.K’s five biggest lenders.
Barclays has increased about 13 percent.  “It was the right time to make the first move,”  Danny
Alexander , chief secretary to the Treasury, said in an interview
today. “It’s a sign of the fact that our economy is heading in
the right direction.”  The transaction will reduce the government’s stake in
Lloyds to 32.7 percent from 38.7 percent. It still owns 81
percent of Edinburgh-based Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The biggest block of Lloyds buyers were U.K. based, with an
overall majority coming from Britain and the U.S., said a person
with knowledge of the sale who asked not to be identified
because the information hasn’t been disclosed.  “The sale demonstrates global investors’ increasing
interest in the U.K. domestic economy,” said  Steve Davies , a
London-based co-manager of Jupiter Asset Management Ltd’s U.K.
growth fund with about 900 million pounds in assets under
management. “Lloyds looks attractive at current prices and it
remains the largest single holding” in the U.K. growth fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  