-- Toyo, Petrobras, BMW, Netflix: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/toyo-petrobras-bmw-netflix-intellectual-property.html
The U.S. International Trade
Commission said yesterday it began an investigation of a
complaint that  Toyo Tire & Rubber Co. (5105)  filed on Aug. 14,
according to a  statement  posted on its website.  The Osaka-based tire company claimed that tires made in
China and  Thailand  are copying proprietary designs used for the
Toyo and Nitto brand of tires. It asked that the trade agency
block U.S. imports of products that infringe eight patents.  Toyo, which makes tires for Audi, Toyota,  Lexus , Mazda,
Nissan and Scion vehicles, said in its petition tires that
infringe U.S. patents are made or sold by 22 entities. They
include Weifang Shunfuchang Rubber & Plastic, Doublestar Dong
Feng Tyre, Shandong Linglong Tyre, Dunlap & Kyle; and South
China Tire & Rubber. In addition to the overseas companies, Toyo
targeted some U.S. companies for allegedly selling the
infringing products.  The Washington-based trade commission has the power to
exclude imports that infringe U.S. patents.  For more patent news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  NSA Accused of Spying on Petrobras, Snowden Leaks Indicate  The U.S. National Security Agency has been accused of
spying on Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the Brazilian  oil company 
commonly known as Petrobras, the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper
 reported .  The revelations, made on a Brazilian news program, are
related to files Edward Snowden gave to a reporter for the
Guardian, the newspaper reported.  Dates of the alleged spying weren’t revealed by the news
program, nor was information about what information the NSA may
have been seeking, the Guardian reported.  James Clapper , director of U.S. National Intelligence, said
in a statement the surveillance wasn’t industrial espionage and
that the information gathered could provide “insight” into
other countries’ economic policy or behavior, according to the
Guardian.  BMW Accused of Industrial Espionage Against Car-Sharing Firm  Groupe Bollore, the French company that operates the
Autolib’ car-sharing program in Paris, accused  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  of industrial espionage and filed a criminal
complaint against the German maker of BMW autos,  Agence France-Presse   reported .  Puteaux, France-based Bollore said it observed people
working for a company engaged by BMW tampering with both
charging points and Autolib’ vehicles in Paris, according to
AFP.  BMW said the workers were checking the compatibility of
charging points on public roads in anticipation of its future
release of electric vehicles and weren’t engaging in spying, AFP
reported.  Bollore began its Autolib’ service -- in which members of
the public can participate for a subscription fee -- in December
2011, according to the news service.  Trademark  Berlin Zoo Manages to Block U.K. Company’s Use of ‘Knud’ Mark  The  European Court  of Justice rejected a British company’s
trademark registration for the name of a polar bear from the
 Berlin Zoo , the U.K.’s Independent newspaper  reported .  The Luxembourg-based court said Knut IP Management Ltd. had
no rights to register “Knut - Der Eisbaer” (Knut -- The Polar
Bear) because that would infringe the zoo’s trademarks for the
bear’s name and cause the public to be confused, according to
the Independent.  Knut, who was born in 2007 and rejected by his mother, was
hand-raised in the zoo, and was mourned by animal lovers when he
 died suddenly  in 2011, the newspaper reported.  The zoo has realized millions of euros in revenue from its
sale of “Knud” trademarked mugs, postcards, stamps and other
products, according to the Independent.  Court Upholds Registration for Indian Temple’s Mark, Deity Image  A court in  India  dismissed an appeal of a government
decision to register a picture of a goddess and the description
of the temple associated with her as a pilgrimage center for
women, the Indian Express  reported .  The Kerala High Court said that the registration by the
temple would bar the use of the name of the deity of the  Attukal
Devi Temple  by others and restrict the commercialization of
services offered in the goddess’s name, according to the
newspaper.  The court said it didn’t see any merit in the argument of
the petitioner opposed to the trademark, the Indian Express
reported.  The Temple Trust was issued the trademark in 2009, and has
the exclusive right to the image of the goddess and the
associated “Sabarimala of women” title, according to the
Express.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Netflix Finds Traffic to Pirate Sites Can Shape Buying Choices  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the Internet-based film and television
program subscription service, looks at pirate sites to determine
what programs to buy and offer to users, the TorrentFreak anti-copyright news service  reported .  Reed Hastings , chief executive officer of the  Los Gatos ,
California-based company, said that some of the piracy sites
create the demand for a particular film or television series,
TorrentFreak reported.  Hastings said that some of the users of the piracy sites
may move to Netflix because they get a better user experience
for which all they have to do is “click and watch,” according
to TorrentFreak.  He claimed traffic to sites in  Canada  that offered pirated
content through the BitTorrent file-sharing protocol dropped 50
percent after his company started offering streaming service in
that country three years ago, TorrentFreak reported.  Font Designer Says Use on ‘Go Home’ Vans is Unauthorized  A French designer of a type font said he may sue the U.K.
government over the unauthorized use of the font on mobile
billboards, the  BBC   reported .  Fabien Delage objects to the font’s use on Home Office
billboards telling illegal immigrants to the U.K. to go home or
face arrest, according to the BBC.  He said that his fonts are free only for personal use, and
that a license is required for any commercial use, the BBC
reported.  Delage said he’s concerned that his customers may now think
that he supports the billboards’ sentiments, which “have been
quite unpopular abroad,” according to the BBC.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  