-- PGA Tour to Discuss Ban on Player Penalties Called in by Viewers
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-09-17T21:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/pga-tour-to-discuss-ban-on-player-penalties-called-in-by-viewers.html
The days of video-watching golf
fans picking up a phone to alert on-site tournament officials of
a rules violation may be coming to an end.  Tim Finchem, commissioner of the Tour, said the world’s top
professional golf circuit will discuss the increase in cases of
outsiders alerting officials about violations when it reviews
rules this offseason.  “We’ve been talking about it and looking at it over the
years,” Finchem said at a news conference today in Atlanta,
site of the season-ending Tour Championship. “We seem to have
had three or four of these things this year. So we’ll probably
be taking another harder look at it after we get done with the
season.”  At last week’s BMW Championship in  Lake Forest ,  Illinois ,
 Tiger Woods  was assessed a two-stroke penalty when a freelance
videographer for PGA Tour Entertainment alerted his supervisor
that Woods’s ball moved while he was removing a stick and pine
cone from around it.  Woods, after being shown video evidence following his round,
denied that his ball moved. He repeatedly defended his position
and said his ball oscillated slightly and returned to its
original spot, which is not a penalty.  “I didn’t feel like I did anything,” Woods told reporters.
“I feel like the ball oscillated and I just left it. They
replayed it again and again and again, and I felt the same
way.”  Second Case  It was the second such rules case this year for Woods, who
finished 11th at the BMW event and enters this week’s tournament
atop the Tour’s playoff points competition, which awards a $10
million bonus to the series champion.  After the second round of the  Masters Tournament  in April,
Woods was assessed a two-stroke penalty when he said during a
news conference that he intentionally dropped a second ball two
yards behind its original location after he hit his first ball
into water on the 15th hole at Augusta National Golf Club.  The tournament’s rules committee initially cleared Woods of
any wrongdoing after Champions Tour player David Eger, who
served as the top rules official for the U.S. Golf Association
from 1992 to 1995, called a Masters official to point out the
infraction.  “The one at Augusta, I did take the wrong drop,” Woods
said last week.  While Eger’s call during the Masters prevented Woods from
possibly being disqualified from the tournament if he had signed
an incorrect scorecard after the round, there are other times
when viewers have non rules-related motives.  ‘Tiger Haters’  “There are a lot of Tiger haters out there,” Tour player
Billy Horschel said today in an interview at East Lake Golf Club.
“They don’t like Tiger or some other top player. They see them
do something wrong and they call in right away, honestly trying
to hurt that player, I believe. It’s unfair. The Tour needs to
put a stop to it. Our fans are great, but they just need to keep
those phones off and hung up and be fans.”  Any such rule change would require a vote by the Tour’s
policy board, which includes players  Paul Goydos ,  Steve Stricker ,
Harrison Frazar and  Jim Furyk , Finchem said.  “We could just write a rule and say we’re not going to
accept outside information after X” amount of time, Finchem
said. “What’s a reasonable point to accept outside information?
Is it better to have some sort of limit on it?  If you don’t
learn about something before X time. All the other sports close
their books a little quicker than we do, so to speak.”  Horschel said fans of other sports can’t affect the outcome
when they spot infractions on television, such as a missed hold
in football or a blown call at first base in baseball.  No Cheaters  “It’s getting ridiculous,” he said. “We don’t have
cheaters out here.”  Not every player agrees with Horschel, a 26-year-old
Florida native in his third full season on the U.S.  PGA Tour .  “People calling in with rules and infractions, it only
keeps us sharp,” said 59-year-old Peter Jacobsen, a seven-time
PGA Tour winner who now works as a television golf analyst.
“It’s probably no fun for the PGA Tour staff and all the rules
officials, but I don’t have a problem with it.”  Such a rules change would also likely involve a discussion
with the U.S. Golf Association and the Royal & Ancient Golf Club
of  St. Andrews , the two groups who make the sport’s rules around
the world.  “We’d have a nice conversation with them,” Finchem said.
“And then we’d have to decide what we want to do. It’s not an
easy argument one way or the other. I think it’s cumbersome and
difficult and awkward at times. On the other hand, sometimes
it’s interesting to the fans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  