-- Philippine Hostages Freed as Military Battles Rebels
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-09-18T02:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/philippine-hostages-freed-in-south-as-military-fights-rebels.html
The Philippine military rescued
dozens of hostages as it pushed back Muslim rebels whose attacks
in the country’s south posed President Benigno Aquino’s biggest
security threat since he took office three years ago.  The military recaptured 70 percent of the territory seized
by Moro National Liberation Front fighters since they began an
offensive in the southern city of Zamboanga on Sept. 9, military
spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Ramon Zagala said in a statement
yesterday.  Aquino is under pressure to end the standoff, which has
complicated efforts to conclude a peace deal with a separate
group of rebels after a four-decade insurgency on Mindanao.  The
violence comes as Aquino boosts strategic ties with the U.S. and
 Japan  amid a territorial spat with  China  over the South China
Sea. About 2,300 Filipino and U.S. soldiers will hold joint
exercises for three weeks starting today in the northern
 Philippines , while two Japanese warships moored at the weekend
at the port in Manila.  “The Zamboanga incident illustrates just how difficult it
is to restore peace in Mindanao,” Steven Rood, country
representative for the Asia Foundation, said by phone in Manila.
“There are so many different groupings that over the years have
had injustices visited upon them or grievances that haven’t been
addressed.”  Peace Talks  Two days of talks between Aquino’s government and  Malaysia ,
which is facilitating peace negotiations with the Moro Islamic
Liberation Front, ended Sept. 14 in  Manila , Malaysia’s Foreign
Ministry said in a statement yesterday. The two sides “looked
forward to a final peace agreement to be concluded in the near
future,” the ministry said in the statement.  The Philippine military says 72 rebels, along with 11
government troops and policemen and seven civilians, have been
killed in the recent fighting in the south. Of an estimated 183
hostages held by the rebels, 150 have been released or rescued,
and 14 escaped, the military said.  Rebels abducted Senior Superintendent Chiquito Malayo near
the town of Arena Blanco yesterday. Malayo later convinced his
23 captors to release him and surrender, Zamboanga police
director Chief Superintendent Juanito Vano said by phone.  The military launched air strikes from helicopters Sept.
16. More than 70,000 people are staying in evacuation centers
after  fleeing  their homes in the area, the National Disaster
Risk Reduction and Management Council said in its latest update
published on its website yesterday.  Stifled Development  Decades of insurgency in Mindanao has left about 200,000
people dead and has stifled development on the island, where per
capita gross domestic product is about a quarter of the national
average.  Still, “I don’t think the protracted situation there will
cause economic dislocation,” Budget Secretary Butch Abad said
in Manila yesterday. “It will not be substantial enough to dent
the economic climate.”  The  Philippine Stock Exchange (PCOMP)  Index has risen 5.7 percent
since Sept. 9.  Filipino and U.S. soldiers will undergo air, ground and
amphibious training during their drills, the Philippine Marine
Corps said in a statement yesterday. Two Japanese warships were
at the port of Manila from Sept. 15 to Sept. 17 for
reprovisioning before heading to Japan, the Philippine Navy said
in a statement.  The U.S. and the Philippines on Sept. 13 held the third of
four rounds of talks on increasing the rotational presence of
American troops and military equipment in the Philippines. In
July, the Southeast Asian nation also agreed to boost maritime
cooperation with Japan during Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s visit
to Manila.  The U.S. designated 26.4 million pesos ($603,000) for
relief to Zamboanga, the U.S. Embassy in Manila said in a  Sept.
12 statement .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  