-- Philippine Death Toll Rises to 62 in Siege as Locals Flee
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-09-17T01:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/philippine-death-toll-rises-to-62-in-siege-as-locals-flee.html
The  Philippines  launched air
strikes against Muslim rebels as President  Benigno Aquino  sought
to bring an end to a standoff that has killed 87 people and
complicated efforts to bring peace to the south.  “We are gaining ground as far as our calibrated response
is concerned,” military spokesman Brigadier General Domingo
Tutaan told reporters in Manila yesterday, about an hour before
helicopters fired three rockets on rebel positions in the city
of Zamboanga on Mindanao Island.  Seventy-one Moro National Liberation Front fighters have
died in the clashes, and 64 have surrendered or been captured,
military spokesman Major Angelo Guzman said in a mobile-phone
message. More than 67,000 people have  fled  their homes with
rebels still holding 94  hostages , the National Disaster Risk
Reduction and Management Council said on its website, in what
has become Aquino’s biggest security crisis since he took office
in 2010.  Aquino is under pressure to end the standoff in  Mindanao , a
resource-rich region where four decades of insurgency have
killed about 200,000 people and stifled development. The
violence complicates peace talks the government is holding in
 Malaysia  with another rebel group, the Moro Islamic Liberation
Front, which signed a wealth-sharing agreement in July.  Walk Away  “Aquino seems not to be in the mood to allow these men to
simply walk away because doing so might send the wrong signal
and embolden other groups,”  Ramon Casiple ,  executive director 
at the Institute for Political and Electoral Reform in Manila,
said by phone. “The government is using force to end the
crisis. They must minimize civilian casualty or the fallout
could undermine the  peace process .”  Nine policemen and soldiers and seven villagers have been
killed in fighting that started Sept. 9 when troops blocked
rebels from hoisting their flag at Zamboanga’s city hall. Aquino
warned last week he would deploy the “full force of the state”
if needed to protect civilians. He  remains  in the city.  The army has taken control of about 70 percent of the
conflict zone, Lieutenant Colonel Ramon Zagala, a spokesman for
the armed forces, said at a briefing aired on ABS-CBN television
yesterday.  Torched Homes  The rebels torched hundreds of homes and a team of
prosecutors is preparing charges against some of them, Interior
Secretary Mar Roxas said at the same briefing. Twenty houses
were destroyed and five partially damaged, the disaster
monitoring agency said.  Zamboanga’s airport will remain closed until Sept. 21,  Cebu
Air Inc. (CEB)  said in a statement yesterday, citing the  Civil
Aviation Authority .  Mindanao has mineral deposits worth an estimated $312
billion. The  Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao  had a per-capita gross domestic product of 26,004 pesos ($595) in 2011,
about a fourth of the national average and the lowest among 17
regions, according to the National Statistical Coordination
Board.  The government will ensure the views of the MNLF and its
founder Nur Misuari are considered during the crafting of a law
to create a new autonomous region, Teresita Deles, Aquino’s
adviser on the peace process, told reporters on Sept. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in  Manila  at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  