-- Pound Weakness Exposed in Rally Deemed Illusory: Market Reversal
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-09-18T15:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/pound-weakness-exposed-in-rally-deemed-illusory-market-reversal.html
The pound’s advance to an eight-month high is seen at risk in trading patterns that suggest
economic data that beat forecasts fail to reflect a fundamental
shift in the U.K.’s prospects.  “There are enough warning signals to suggest that this is
the time to exit long-sterling positions,”  Karen Jones , a
London-based technical strategist at Commerzbank AG, said in a
phone interview yesterday.  While the pound has strengthened 6.6 percent in the past
six months, the best performance among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
it’s down 28 percent from 2007.  Europe ’s third-biggest economy
will only grow 1.3 percent this year and 2 percent in 2014,
compared with 1.6 percent and 2.65 percent for the U.S.,
according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  Britain’s currency rose today to within 0.3 percent of
$1.6035, the 78.6 percent Fibonacci retracement of its decline
to this year’s low in July from January’s high point, according
to Commerzbank. The pound fell to $1.4814 on July 9, from a high
of $1.6381 on Jan. 2, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Another
measure of trading patterns, stochastic oscillators, also signal
the pound has risen too fast and may be overdue for a decline.  U.K. Stimulus  “We’re still in a long-term downtrend,” Jones said.
“Assuming that we see failure around here, the entire move up
from July is a correction only,” she said.  Sterling rose to as high as $1.5980 today, the strongest
level since Jan. 18, and was at $1.5904 at 11:37 a.m. in  New
York .  Britain’s currency surged after minutes of the Bank of
England’s last meeting showed that officials voted unanimously
to keep policy unchanged amid an improving economic outlook. In
a switch from August, when some Monetary Policy Committee
members saw a “compelling” case for a loosening of policy, the
minutes of the Sept. 3-4 meeting today showed that “no member
judged that further stimulus was appropriate at present.”  BOE Governor  Mark Carney  said in August that policy makers
plan to hold the benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low 0.5
percent until  unemployment (UKUEILOR)  falls to a pre-set threshold of 7
percent. Lower borrowing costs tend to lead to a weaker
currency.  Unemployment in Britain fell to 7.7 percent in the three
months through July, an official report showed Sept. 11,
compared with a median economist estimate of 7.8 percent, while
Citigroup Inc.’s U.K. Economic Surprise Index last month touched
the highest level since November 2012.  Resistance Point  A former trend line connecting the pound’s 2008 trough of
$1.3503 with its 2010 and 2012 lows is a resistance to further
gains, Jones said. The currency is likely to retest this year’s
low and may fall as far as the 2010 low, she said. That means
the currency would tumble to $1.4231, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Fibonacci analysis, based on the work of 13th century
mathematician Leonardo of Pisa, is based on the theory that
prices rise or fall by certain amounts after reaching a high or
low. Resistance refers to an area on a chart where sell orders
may be gathered, and support where there may be buy orders.  U.K. services expanded the most since 2006 in August, a
Purchasing Managers Index showed on Sept. 4. Citigroup’s
Surprise Index for the country rose to 113.3 on Aug. 19, from
minus 33 in May, and was at 72.7 yesterday. A positive reading
suggests economic releases have been generally better than
economists’ estimates in Bloomberg surveys.  ‘Surprise Factor’  “Data out of the U.K. has been mostly on the strong side,
and soon enough it’s fair to assume that the surprise factor
will go away,” Dag Muller, a technical strategist at SEB AB in
 Stockholm , said in a Sept. 17 phone interview. “The market will
revise up expectations and surprises will be less positive,
which poses a risk.”  The “k-line” of the pound’s stochastics measure, which
measures current price relative to highs and lows, fell below
the currency’s five-day moving average, known as the “d-line”
on Sept. 16, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That signals the pound has risen too far, too fast against
the dollar and could be set to reverse. The pound’s relative
strength index climbed to 84.8 percent today, above the 70
threshold that signals a reversal.  “The pound has risen quite fast,” said SEB’s Muller.
“We’re calling for a couple of big figures lower from here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  