-- Child Poverty Remains High as U.S. Income Stagnates
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-09-18T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/poverty-in-u-s-remains-high-with-incomes-stagnant-census-says.html
The number of Americans living in
poverty remained close to a two-decade high as the nation
struggled to fully recover from the economic recession, Census
Bureau  data  show. One bright spot: Fewer people are uninsured.  The proportion of those living in poverty was 15 percent in
2012, while median  household income  was $51,017, both little
changed from the previous year. Almost 22 percent of Americans
under age 18 were in poverty in 2012, the agency said yesterday.  The data show the economic expansion hasn’t broadened to
all Americans. Rising  stock  prices and  home  values have boosted
the finances of the more affluent, while those on the lowest
tiers contend with high unemployment and stagnant wages.  “Unless we find ways to strengthen job opportunities and
enhance the social safety net, we’ll continue to get
disappointing news about the poverty rate from the Census Bureau
each September,” Sheldon Danziger, president of the Russell
Sage Foundation, a New York-based nonprofit organization that
studies poverty, said in a statement.  The agency reported modest good news in the area of health
care: The number of Americans who lack insurance declined to 48
million last year from 48.6 million in 2011, as many under the
age of 26 took advantage of a provision in President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care  law  that allowed them to be covered
under their parents’ plans.  Fewer Uninsured  While some parts of Obama’s Affordable Care Act have taken
effect, the most critical provision -- the creation of
government-run insurance exchanges -- begins to roll out Oct. 1.  The percentage of people without health insurance dropped
to 15.4 percent from 15.7 percent in 2011. It was the second
straight year of improvement in coverage.  The health law, which will also expand state-run Medicaid
programs for the poor starting Jan. 1, is projected to extend
coverage to at least 25 million uninsured by 2016, according to
estimates from the  Congressional Budget Office .  The Census data showed that while Americans’ situation
didn’t improve much over the year, things at least stopped
getting worse in 2012 for the world’s largest economy.  “For the first time in five years, neither median
household income decreased nor the percent of the population in
poverty increased,”  David Johnson , chief of the social,
economic and housing division at the Census Bureau, said on a
conference call with reporters.  The Census Bureau releases the nation’s official estimates
of household income and poverty annually from the Current
Population Survey.  Child Poverty  There were 46.5 million people living in poverty, including
16.1 million children, the agency said. The poverty rate remains
2.5 percentage points higher than in 2007, the last year before
the worst of the recession. It was at or above 15 percent 
from 2010-2012, the highest level since 1993, when it was at 
15.1 percent.  The poverty threshold for a family of four in 2012 was
$23,283, according to the report.  “The  poverty rate  is still very high by historical
standards,” said Isabel Sawhill, a senior fellow at the
 Brookings Institution  in  Washington  who studies poverty issues.
“The good news is that it is likely to decline as the economy
recovers over the next decade. The bad news is that it’s
unlikely to get back to its 2007 level -- 12.5 percent -- until
the middle of the next decade, according to our projections.”  The poverty rate varied widely among racial and ethnic
groups, the census data show. For non-Hispanic whites, it was
9.7 percent, while for blacks it was 27.2 percent, for Hispanics
25.6 percent and for Asians 11.7 percent.  Income Inequality  The Western part of the U.S. was the only region that
showed a statistically significant change in its poverty rate,
declining to 15.1 percent from 15.8 percent in 2011.  The Census Bureau also reported that a measure of the gap
between rich and poor households didn’t change in a
statistically significant way from 2011. A measurement known as
the Gini index was .477. A figure of zero means all income is
evenly distributed while a 1 represents complete concentration.
Since 1993, the earliest year available for comparable measures
of  income inequality , the index is up 5.2 percent.  The only group that has gained since the June 2009 end of
the recession is those with the top 5 percent of incomes, said
Lawrence Mishel, president of the  Economic Policy Institute , a
Washington-based research group. Those gains have continued into
this year, he said, citing the surge in the stock market. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has risen almost 20 percent since
Dec. 31, as of yesterday.  Market Wealth  “The growth of the stock market shows that the recovery is
even more unbalanced than what the Census Bureau numbers show,”
Mishel said on a call with reporters after the report was
released. “But the Census Bureau numbers definitely do show a
pretty unbalanced pattern of income growth.”  An updated  research paper  published earlier this month by
 University of California , Berkeley economist Emmanuel Saez found
that the top 10 percent of earners -- those with household
income above $114,000 -- collected more than half the nation’s
total income in 2012, the largest proportion since the
government started gathering such data in 1917.  The study, using preliminary 2012 data, also found that
those with the top 1 percent of incomes saw their earnings grow
31.4 percent from 2009 to 2012, while the bottom 99 percent saw
growth of just 0.4 percent.  Obama noted those trends in a Sept. 16 speech marking the
5-year anniversary of the financial crisis triggered by the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  One Percent  “Even though our businesses are creating new jobs and have
broken record profits, the top 1 percent of Americans took home
20 percent of the nation’s income last year, while the average
worker isn’t seeing a raise at all,” Obama said. “Most of the
gains have gone to the top one-tenth of 1 percent. So in many
ways, the trends that have taken hold over the past few decades
of a winner-take-all economy, where a few do better and better
and better, while everybody else just treads water or loses
ground, those trends have been made worse by the recession.”  Unemployment, which hovered at or above 8 percent for much
of 2012, dropped to 7.3 percent in August. The slow and uneven
recovery has left millions dependent on government assistance.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture   reported  earlier this
month that  food stamps  were used by 47.8 million people in June,
close to a record high.  Food Stamps  The program, because of both its rapid growth and fraud
allegations, has become a target for Republicans in their fight
with Obama and other Democrats over reducing federal  budget
deficits . Expenditures for what is formally known as the
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program grew to $78 billion
last year, more than double the amount when the recession
started in December 2007.  Obama’s ability to alter such economic trend lines will be
central to his legacy. How much the unemployment rate drops in
the next year also will weigh heavily on November 2014 races
that will determine control of Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark McQuillan at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  