-- Prada Hurt by Euro’s Strength as Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-09-18T07:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/prada-to-pursue-retail-expansion-after-profit-misses-estimates.html
Prada SpA (1913) , the Italian owner of the
Miu Miu and Church’s luxury brands, said the euro’s strength
will weigh more heavily on full-year earnings than some analysts
anticipate after first-half profit missed estimates.  The currency’s appreciation against the yen and the dollar
“may be possibly not fully considered in some of the forecasts
that we have seen coming from the market at the moment,” Chief
Financial Officer Donatello Galli said on a conference call.  The euro has gained about 4.6 percent this year, the best
performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The advance is taxing companies
such as Prada, which got more than half its revenue outside of
 Europe  in its last financial year. Amid an economic climate
described by Chief Executive Officer Patrizio Bertelli as
“uncertain and extremely volatile,” sales growth at the Milan-based company has slowed in September, Prada said.  The company’s comments “might be taken negatively near-term and delay Prada’s share price recovery,” said Thomas
Chauvet, an analyst at Citigroup Inc.  Prada  fell  2.1 percent to HK$77.95 at 3:15 p.m. in Hong
Kong trading. The benchmark  Hang Seng  index lost 0.1 percent.  First-half net income rose 7.6 percent to 308.2 million
euros ($412 million), Prada said yesterday, less than the 321
million-euros average of five  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The slowdown in sales this month followed a “fairly good”
August, Prada said. The weakness was most noticeable in some
parts of Europe and the  Middle East  as the situation in  Syria 
hurt tourist flows, Galli said.  Slowing Growth  Prada, which plans to open as many as 80 stores this year,
said it will keep “close attention” to be able to respond to a
“possible sudden change of conditions.” The 100-year-old
company had 491 directly-operated stores at the end of July.  First-half revenue growth slowed to a third of the rate in
the same period last year as demand for  luxury goods  cooled in
 China , the world’s second-largest economy. Sales in the period
gained 12 percent to 1.73 billion euros.  Sales at stores open at least a year rose 7 percent and
will gain at least that amount in the second half, Galli said.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization advanced 17 percent to 551.1 million euros,
widening as a percentage of sales as Prada adjusted its product
mix and increased prices, it said yesterday.  The company has “substantial margin upside potential
across both flagship brands, Prada and Miu Miu,” said Allegra Perry, an analyst at  Cantor Fitzgerald . “We see a significant
opportunity in Asia, where the group is underpenetrated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  