-- PwC to Build Insurer Risk Group After Hiring Essert
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-17T14:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/pwc-to-build-insurer-risk-group-after-hiring-essert.html
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s Henry Essert is building a group that consults with insurance
companies on risk management as regulatory scrutiny intensifies,
after joining the firm from  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   Essert, 61, will draw on PwC’s specialists in areas such as
credit risk, actuarial science and compliance and may also hire
people to expand the insurance-risk practice, depending on
demand, he said in an interview. He was named a managing
director last week in PwC’s New York office, and was chief risk
officer at  MetLife Inc. (MET)  during the financial crisis.  “There was no one individual within the firm that was
responsible for all aspects of insurance risk for our clients,”
said Richard de Haan, who leads PwC’s U.S. actuarial and
insurance management solutions for  life insurance . “Given the
need and given the focus right now in and around the chief risk
officer, the importance of having somebody very senior” has
increased.  U.S. and international insurance regulations with a greater
emphasis on risk management are adding demand for the service,
Essert said. In the U.S., that includes the designation of non-bank systemically important financial institutions and a push
for companies to use models to assess their risks and  solvency ,
he said. Globally, the so-called ComFrame, or a common framework
for the supervision of international insurers, is also driving
demand, he said.  “Good risk management is good for the shareholders, it’s
good for the customers,” Essert said in the interview.  BlackRock, MetLife  The insurance-risk practice will help companies evaluate
their models and perform stress tests and other assessments,
Essert said. At BlackRock, he led insurance sector initiatives
for the financial markets advisory unit, and helped insurers
with asset allocations and enterprise risk management. Lauren Post, a spokeswoman for New York-based BlackRock, declined to
comment on Essert’s departure.  Essert joined MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, in
2006 and helped overhaul  risk management , according to his
resume. He left New York-based MetLife in 2009 for Ernst & Young
LLP, where he developed an insurance sector risk consulting
business. Essert has undergraduate and graduate degrees from
 Canada ’s  McMaster University , and previously worked in insurance
consulting at Mercer, which is part of Marsh & McLennan Cos.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ; 