-- Quarles & Brady, Mayer Brown, Skadden: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-09-17T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/quarles-brady-mayer-brown-skadden-business-of-law.html
Kimberly Leach Johnson will take
the helm of Quarles & Brady LLP on Oct. 1, becoming the firm’s
first chairwoman.  “There are many outstanding partners at Quarles who could
lead us forward, but Kim is a perfect reflection of the firm’s
tradition of practice excellence and its progressive vision,”
Chairman John W. Daniels Jr., who will become chairman emeritus,
said  in a statement. “She is an exceptional attorney and a
collaborative, client-centric, business-minded leader whose
commitment is unsurpassed.”  Johnson, a trusts-and-estates partner, was most recently
head of the firm’s finance committee and managing partner of the
firm’s Naples and Tampa,  Florida , offices.  “We’re in the process of visiting our strategic plan
now,” she said in a phone interview. “We’ll finish the plan at
the end of January and we will roll it out to the partners in
March.”  Daniels, who has been chairman since 2007, will focus on
strategic counseling to business clients, with particular
emphasis on financial services, health-care and mid-market
growth entities. Under his leadership, the firm transformed from
an individually responsible attorney model to a collaborative
organization.  Fredrick G. Lautz, a mergers-and-acquisitions and corporate
finance/securities partner, was re-appointed managing partner.  Johnson joins a handful of women at the top of the
country’s wealthiest law firms, including long-standing Goodwin
Procter LLP Chairman Regina Pisa and, more recently, Kim Koopersmith of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, who was named
chairperson last October. Other prominent women leading firms
include Valerie Ford Jacob of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver &
Jacobson LLP and Candace K. Beinecke of Hughes Hubbard & Reed
LLP.  Elizabeth Anne Tursi, a founder of the Women in Law
Empowerment Forum, said that while the number of women at the
top is hard to pinpoint because of turnover, it remains lower
than it should be.  “We’re making progress but it’s a slow progress,” she
said.  Johnson credited Quarles & Brady’s culture in part with her
promotion, noting that it was previously led by Daniels, who is
black. “The firm has a history of being very inclusive even
before it was popular.”  Quarles & Brady has about 400 attorneys in eight U.S.
offices in the South, Southwest, Midwest and Washington, as well
as in  Shanghai .  Deals  Mayer Brown, Skadden on Packaging’s $1.27 Billion Boise Deal  Mayer Brown LLP is advising  Packaging Corp. of America , the
fourth-largest U.S. producer of corrugated shipping boxes, which
agreed to buy  Boise (BZ)  Inc. for about $1.27 billion to boost
capacity. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is Boise’s
legal adviser.  Mayer Brown’s legal team was led by corporate and
securities partners Andrew Noreuil, Paul Crimmins and John Sagan. The Skadden team includes partners Margaret Brown, M&A,
and Cliff Gross, tax.  Packaging Corp. will pay $12.55 for each Boise share, the
companies said yesterday in a statement, 26 percent more than
Boise’s Sept. 13 closing price. The deal includes $714 million
of Boise’s debt and will close in the fourth quarter, they said.  The takeover will increase  Lake Forest , Illinois-based
Packaging Corp.’s containerboard production capacity 42 percent
to 3.7 million tons a year and boost the company’s presence in
the Pacific Northwest, the companies said.  The combined companies generated $5.5 billion in sales and
$879 million in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization last year, according to the statement.  Boise, based in the Idaho city of the same name, also makes
newsprint and office paper and owns mills, plants and
 distribution centers  in  North America  and Europe.  Moves  Two Dentons Lawyers Join Crowell & Moring in New York  Crowell & Moring LLP added to its corporate group and
commercial real estate practice with two new partners in  New
York  from Dentons LLP.  Sahra Dalfen joins the firm’s corporate finance and
securities practice, while Jody E. Saltzman joins the commercial
real estate practice.  “Their broad and deep knowledge in their respective areas,
coupled with their strong contacts in this market, will further
support our clients and expand our client base, particularly in
our real estate and corporate practices,” Joseph A. Adams, head
of the firm’s New York office and a partner in the corporate
group, said in a statement.  Dalfen’s corporate practice includes M&A and securities,
with a focus on representing companies in domestic and cross-border mergers and acquisitions, as well as issuers and
investors in securities offerings and financings. She also
advises domestic and foreign clients on U.S. corporate
governance issues and securities-law compliance matters.  Saltzman has experience negotiating commercial leases
nationwide on behalf of tenants. She also represents private
clients and institutional clients on property acquisitions and
transfers, financing transactions and title related matters.
Saltzman also handles commercial finance matters dealing with
trade finance, including factoring, receivables financing and
other lending arrangements.  Crowell & Moring has about 500 lawyers at offices in the
U.S.,  London  and Brussels.  Stroock Hires Ex-SEC Private Funds Official Tram Nguyen  Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP announced that Tram N. Nguyen
has joined the firm as a partner in the private funds practice
group in Washington after leaving the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Nguyen, the former chief of the private-funds branch of the
SEC’s division of  investment management , will work with Robert E. Plaze in the firm’s private funds group. Plaze, before
starting the practice group, was the deputy director of the
SEC’s division of investment management.  While at the SEC, Nguyen led rulemaking and initiatives
related to private fund advisers, the firm said.  “Tram was responsible for some of the most important
rulemaking relating to private funds to come out of the SEC,”
Stuart H. Coleman, Stroock’s co-managing partner and chairman of
its investment-management practice group, said in a statement.
“Her insight into the current regulatory climate and experience
in both private practice and government makes her a tremendous
addition to our firm overall, and particularly to our expanding
presence in  Washington .”  Stroock has more than 750 employees at offices in New York,
Miami,  Los Angeles  and Washington.  King & Spalding Brings in Ex-Justice Department Tax Litigator  King & Spalding LLP added Nathan E. Clukey as a partner in
the tax practice in Washington. Clukey was a trial lawyer in the
tax division of the U.S.  Justice Department  from 2008 until this
month.  At the Justice Department, Clukey tried tax cases in
federal district courts, serving as lead counsel in jury and
bench trials, the firm said in a statement.  “Nathan’s litigation experience and technical knowledge of
the tax law give him a unique ability to serve clients in
complex and demanding tax controversy contexts,” Hap Shashy,
leader of the firm’s tax practice, said in the statement.  King & Spalding has about 800 lawyers at 17 offices in the
U.S.,  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  