-- Rays Send Rangers to Seventh Straight MLB Loss in Wild-Card Race
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-17T04:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/rays-send-rangers-to-seventh-straight-mlb-loss-in-wild-card-race.html
The Tampa Bay Rays solidified their
hold on one of the American League’s two wild-card playoff
berths with a 6-2 win against the  Texas Rangers , whose losing
streak reached seven games.  The Rays used a four-run fifth inning to snap a 2-2 tie in
the opener of a three-game series last night in St. Petersburg,
Florida, and improve their record to 82-67. The Rangers, at 81-68, still hold a half-game lead over the  Cleveland Indians  for
the AL’s second wild-card spot.  The Indians (81-69) missed a chance to move past the
slumping Rangers in the wild-card race by losing 7-1 to the
Kansas City Royals last night.  James Shields  allowed one run over six innings with 10
strikeouts as the Royals (79-71) pulled within 2 1/2 games of
the Rangers and tied the  New York Yankees , who were off
yesterday. The  Baltimore Orioles  (79-70) are two games behind
the Rangers. Major League Baseball’s wild-card berths go to the
two non-division winners in each league with the best records.  The Rays and Rangers play again today, as do the Indians
and Royals. The Yankees, who have 12 games left in the regular
season, open a three-game series today in Toronto.  The Pittsburgh Pirates and St. Louis Cardinals remain tied
atop the National League Central division with 87-63 records
after both teams lost yesterday.  The Pirates were shut out 2-0 by the San Diego Padres and
pitcher Andrew Cashner (10-8), who carried a perfect game into
the seventh inning and faced the minimum 27 batters. The only
hit he allowed was a single to right field by Pittsburgh’s Jose
Tabata leading off the seventh inning.  The Padres are the only MLB franchise without a no-hitter.  The Cardinals lost 6-2 in Colorado as the Rockies scored
four runs in the bottom of the eighth inning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  