-- RBA Says Rate Cuts Still Possible, Signals No Moves Imminent
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-09-17T02:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/rba-says-rate-cuts-still-possible-signals-no-moves-imminent.html
Australia’s central bank repeated
it retains the option of reducing  interest rates  and said a
further drop in the currency would aid the economy as resource
investment slows, minutes of the Sept. 3 meeting showed.  “Members agreed that the bank should again neither close
off the possibility of reducing rates further nor signal an
imminent intention to reduce them,” the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia said in  notes  of the meeting, at which it left its
benchmark rate at a record low, released in Sydney today. “Some
further decline in the exchange rate would be helpful.”  The meeting was held four days before an election won by
 Tony Abbott ’s coalition, which ousted the Labor government of
 Kevin Rudd , pledging to cut red tape and lower taxes to boost
the $1.5 trillion economy as a China-led mining investment boom
crests. Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board have lowered
borrowing costs by 2.25 percentage points since late 2011 to 2.5
percent as growth slows and unemployment rises.  “The big picture remains that the RBA is on hold for now
and remains in data-watching mode,” said Alvin Pontoh,
Singapore-based strategist at TD Securities. “At the same time,
the RBA continues to express its preference for a lower
Australian dollar.”  Property Prices  Australian  house prices  rose by the most in more than three
years in the second quarter, aiding the central bank’s aim of
rebalancing growth from mining regions in the north and west
toward services and manufacturers in the south and east.  “Lending rates had declined to historically low levels as
a result, which, together with the lower -- though still high --
exchange rate, were continuing to provide a substantial degree
of policy stimulus to the economy,” the minutes said. “This
was most evident in the housing market, with the lags in the
effect of policy meaning that earlier actions were still likely
to take some time to have their full effect on demand more
generally.”  That has been helped by a 10 percent drop in the Australian
dollar in the past six months, the worst performer among the
Group of 10 major currencies, as China’s outlook darkened and
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled that a
tapering of bond purchases that devalued the greenback may be on
the cards. The currency was little changed at 93.02 U.S. cents
as of 12:15 p.m. in Sydney, from 93.10 cents before the minutes
were released.  FOMC Meeting  The  Federal Open Market Committee  meets today and tomorrow
to consider whether to taper its $85 billion-a-month in bond
buying. Purchases will probably be cut by $10 billion, according
to a Bloomberg survey.  “Members observed that the most notable impact of the
change in expectations about U.S. monetary policy had been on
emerging economies, where capital outflows had put downward
pressure on exchange rates,” policy makers said, noting the
impact on  Brazil ,  India ,  Indonesia  and  Turkey . “They also
observed that emerging market economies generally had become
much better placed to handle this type of pressure than in the
past, with most jurisdictions now holding large foreign exchange
reserves relative to their short-term debt.”  Slower Growth  The RBA last month lowered  Australia ’s growth forecast to
2.25 percent in the year to December 2013, compared with 2.5
percent forecast three months earlier. Employers unexpectedly
cut payrolls by 10,800 in August and unemployment climbed to a
four-year high of 5.8 percent as fewer people sought work,
government data showed last week.  “Indicators of labor demand remained soft,” policy makers
said. “The slowing in wage growth in recent quarters was
consistent with somewhat subdued conditions in the labor market,
elevated concerns by households about unemployment and the lower
inflation expectations of households, unions and businesses.”  Traders priced in about a 30 percent chance the RBA will
lower borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to 2.25
percent by year-end, according to  interest-rate swaps  data
compiled by Bloomberg after today’s release.  There are other signs that the central bank’s policy easing
is impacting areas of the economy.  Higher Confidence  A  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute survey of
 consumer confidence  released Sept. 11 showed a 4.7 percent
increase this month to reach the highest level since December
2010 as the prospect of a change of government and lower rates
boosted sentiment. A National Australia Bank Ltd. survey of
business confidence released a day earlier showed a surge to the
highest level since May 2011, with sentiment lifting in all
industries.  “Given the substantial degree of policy stimulus in place,
the board judged that it was appropriate to retain the current
setting of interest rates,” the minutes showed.  The central bank will release its semi-annual assessment of
the Australian financial system next week and members were
briefed on its contents.  “Given the importance of the  New Zealand  business to the
operations of the major Australian banks, the board was briefed
on developments in the New Zealand housing market and the
macroprudential policy framework recently introduced by the
 Reserve Bank of New Zealand ,” the minutes showed. “The
Australian banking system remained in a relatively sound
position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  