-- Repsol Said to Plan Gas Natural Sale Before U.S. Deal
-- B y   W i l l   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-09-17T14:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/repsol-said-to-plan-gas-natural-sale-before-u-s-deal.html
Repsol SA (REP)  plans to sell a 4.6
billion-euro ($6.1 billion) stake in Spain’s largest natural-gas
distributor before using the funds to make an acquisition in the
U.S., a person briefed on the strategy said.  Repsol is likely to sell its 30 percent holding in  Gas
Natural SDG SA (GAS)  next year, giving the Madrid-based oil company
the financial firepower to add reserves and production in the
U.S., the person said, asking not to be named as the plan isn’t
public. No formal sales process for the Gas Natural stake has
started and there’s no guarantee a deal will be completed.  A Repsol official declined to comment.  Spain’s largest oil producer is reformulating strategy
after Argentina seized the company’s YPF unit last year, forcing
Repsol to delay plans for expansion in North America. Chief
Financial Officer Miguel Martinez said in July the rationale for
owning a stake in Gas Natural disappeared after the sale of the
company’s liquefied natural gas unit to  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   Repsol has exploration and production assets in  Alaska  and
the U.S. Gulf of Mexico as well as a stake in a shale project in
 Mississippi . It’s strengthening its portfolio in the U.S. as
part of a strategy to expand in countries of the Organization of
Economic Cooperation and Development, Repsol’s website shows.  The company sold its LNG business, excluding a Canadian
import terminal, to Shell in February for $4.4 billion. The
deal, expected to complete by the end of the year, was part of a
program to boost financial strength after the loss of YPF.  Under its current strategic plan, running until 2016,
Repsol aims to replace 120 percent of the oil reserves it uses
and increase production at least 10 percent a year, outstripping
larger competitors including Shell and France’s  Total SA. (FP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Kennedy in London at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  