-- Ronaldo Leads Real Madrid in Champions League as Bayern Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-09-17T23:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/ronaldo-leads-real-madrid-in-champions-league-as-bayern-wins.html
Cristiano Ronaldo scored three
goals as Real Madrid routed Galatasaray 6-1 in soccer’s
 Champions League , while  Bayern Munich  opened its title defense
with a 3-0 win over  CSKA Moscow .  David Alaba, Mario Mandzukic and Arjen Robben got the goals
as Bayern began its quest to become the first team since AC
Milan in 1990 to win Europe’s elite club competition two
straight years.  “The first game after winning the Champions League is
never easy,” Bayern coach Pep Guardiola, who replaced Jupp Heynckes after last season, said on the website of tournament
organizer UEFA. “Everyone always thinks it is, but it’s not.”  Bayern is the favorite to win the tournament with
bookmakers on oddschecker.com, followed by Real Madrid and
Barcelona, which opens its campaign tonight against Ajax.  Wayne Rooney  scored twice to reach 200 goals for  Manchester
United  in a 4-2 win against  Bayer Leverkusen  and Manchester City
beat Viktoria Plzen 3-0. Paris Saint-Germain,  Shakhtar Donetsk 
and Benfica also won, while Copenhagen drew 1-1 at home with
Italian champion Juventus.  Eight more group-stage openers will be played tonight. The
top two teams in each pool after six games advance to the
knockout stage, which finishes with the May 24 final in Lisbon.  Madrid Rout  After Isco’s 33rd-minute goal in Turkey, Real Madrid scored
five times in the second half of the Group B match.  Karim Benzema scored in the 54th minute and Ronaldo added
goals three minutes apart to make it 4-0. After Benzema netted
his second with nine minutes remaining, Umut Bulut scored for
Galatasaray.  Ronaldo, who led the competition last season with 12 goals,
then completed his hat trick in stoppage time.  “Things could not have started better for us,” Ronaldo
said. “Scoring six goals is really good for us and will give us
a lot of confidence.”  Two-time European champion Juventus got a goal from Fabio Quagliarella in the second half to draw with Copenhagen in the
other Group B game.  Bayern needed four minutes to get going in Group D in
Germany as Alaba’s free kick from outside the area went over the
wall and dipped sharply under goalkeeper Igor Akinfeev, who got
a hand to the ball.  Mandzukic headed in a cross in the 41st minute from Robben,
who closed the scoring midway through the second half.  City Wins  In the other Group D game, three goals in 10 minutes
enabled Manchester City to better its winless performance in
last season’s group stage.  Edin Dzeko scored in the 48th minute and  Yaya Toure  curled
a shot from outside the area into the top corner five minutes
later.  Sergio Aguero  then capped the scoring in the 58th minute
with a shot from just inside the area.  In Manchester, Rooney joined  Bobby Charlton , Denis Law and
Jack Rowley in reaching the 200-goal mark for United. The
England striker’s first goals for United came in his debut in a
Champions League match in 2004.  “It’s gone very quick and I am very pleased to have scored
200 goals for a club like Manchester United,” Rooney said on
the club’s website. “It’s a great honor for me. Hopefully there
will be more to come.”  Rooney gave United the lead in the 22nd minute. After Simon
Rolfes tied the score early in the second half,  Robin van Persie 
put United back in front.  Rooney scored his milestone goal in the 70th minute and
 Antonio Valencia  extended United’s lead. Omer Toprak added a
consolation goal for Leverkusen in the final minutes.  Two goals from Alex Teixeira in the second half gave
Shakhtar Donetsk a 2-0 win over Real Sociedad in the other Group
A match.  In Group C, Thiago Motta scored twice in PSG’s 4-1 win over
Olympiacos in Greece, while goals from Filip Djuricic and Luisao
gave Benfica a 2-0 home victory against Anderlecht.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 