-- Rousseff’s Brazil Works Plan Hits Bump With Road Bidding
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-09-17T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/rousseff-s-brazil-works-plan-hits-bump-with-road-bidding.html
Brazil  is considering offering
higher returns to persuade investors to build $93 billion of
infrastructure after one of its top road projects failed to
attract any bidders, an official involved in the talks said.  No companies submitted proposals for an auction tomorrow on
a contract for the BR-262 highway in the states of Espirito
Santo and  Minas Gerais . A second road, BR-050 in Goias and Minas
Gerais, drew bids from eight companies, including  Arteris SA (ARTR3)  and
TPI- Triunfo (TPIS3)  Participacoes e Investimentos SA.  The government needs “to speed things up, and for that
they will need to pay a premium to attract investors,” said
Daniela da Costa, a country specialist at Robeco Groep NV in
Rotterdam, which manages 189 billion euros ($252 billion) in
assets. Returns aren’t enough to offset political risks after
violent protests against tolls and bus fares paralyzed the
nation in June.  The contracts are the first test of President Dilma Rousseff’s 212-billion-real ($93 billion) infrastructure plan
after she retained profit caps on such projects even as local
interest rates rise and economic growth falters. Return rates
were raised already for road projects, to 7.2 percent from 5.5
percent, and the government offered more financing at below-market rates to woo bidders for its planned highways, ports and
airports.  Project Estimates  The government may review the maximum toll and operating-cost estimates for the BR-262 project, said the official, who
asked not to be identified because the talks aren’t public. An
auction of airport work in  Belo Horizonte  and  Rio de Janeiro ,
set for Oct. 31, may be delayed a week, the official said
yesterday. Brazil’s  Finance Ministry  and Presidential Palace
declined to comment.  “Returns in the current model are not economically viable
given the higher risk environment,” Felipe Silveira, an analyst
at Coinvalores, said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .
“The fact that no one submitted a bid is a very negative signal
that puts the other infrastructure auctions at risk.”  Auctions for railroads, ports, airports and more roads are
slated to follow tomorrow’s event in the next several months.  The lack of bidders to improve and operate BR-262 “doesn’t
affect the government’s expectations regarding growth and
doesn’t affect, by any means, the government’s auction
schedule,” Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in a statement
sent to Bloomberg on Sept. 14.  BR-262 probably will be be rebid later this year with other
highway work, according to Silveira and Jefferson Finch, a
political risk consultant at Eurasia Group.  Economic Jump-Start  Rousseff’s administration is counting on the road projects,
and port and rail works to come, to jump-start growth after
decades of neglect created transportation bottlenecks blamed for
strangling expansion. Brazil’s economy is expected to grow 2.4
percent this year, according to a weekly central bank survey of
about 100 economists. The growth rate in 2012 was 0.9 percent.  The lack of bids for the BR-262 contract is “an
unfortunate bad start to the government’s infrastructure
agenda,” Finch said in a telephone interview from  New York .
“The political risk in highways continues to be high in the
post-protest environment in Brazil.”  After states such as Sao Paulo canceled increases in tolls
and bus fares following countrywide protest marches that left at
least six people dead, “politicians are going to be very wary
of passing on costs to people,” he said.  Earlier Incentives  The failure to attract interest in BR-262 comes eight
months after companies from CCR SA to Sao Paulo-based Arteris
refused to join in a first round of bidding. That spurred the
boost in returns to 7.2 percent, as well as creation of an 11
billion-real fund to cover political risk and natural disasters,
and the offer of government pension funds as partners.  Increasing private funding through infrastructure is
imperative for Brazil’s economic growth and avoiding a sovereign
credit rating downgrade, according to  Standard & Poor’s .
Brazil’s investment of 21 percent of gross domestic product is
the least among the largest developing nations and less than
half of  China ’s rate, S&P said.  Companies such as  Ecorodovias (ECOR3)  Infraestrutura e Logistica
SA, Brazil’s largest toll-road operator, “are very discounted
today,” said Silveira, the Coinvalores analyst, after the
government intervened in the electricity industry and cut
tariffs last year, and after the state of Sao Paulo failed to
attract any interested parties to its subway line auction on
July 30.  Stock Declines  Ecorodovias fell 10 percent this year through yesterday, as
CCR, another toll-road operator, dropped 7.5 percent, Arteris
rose 2.4 percent, Triunfo declined 16 percent and the Ibovespa
benchmark index slid 12 percent. Ecorodovias is trading at 18
times estimated 2013 earnings, while Sao Paulo-based CCR is at
22 times, Triunfo is at 61 times and Arteris, an operator of
state and federal highways, is at 16 times, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Risks in the new auction are better balanced, returns are
attractive for investors and operators can associate with
pension funds,” Arteris said in an e-mailed statement on Sept.
11. “The other advantage is that the Brazilian  development
bank , BNDES, may finance up to 70 percent of the investment for
25 years at attractive  interest rates .”  ‘Always Looking’  A spokesman for CCR from outside agency Entrelinhas said
the company is “always looking at potential business
opportunities” and declined to comment specifically on the road
concessions. A spokeswoman for Ecorodovias said the Sao Paulo-based company wouldn’t comment before results were announced.  Triunfo, a Sao Paulo-based operator of highways and
harbors,  also declined to comment.  For rail projects, the government is making changes to the
size of lots and estimated costs as it attempts to mitigate
higher risks associated with the untested program.  “When the government is faced with setbacks, the response
is going to be to maneuver to make the terms more attractive,”
Eurasia Group’s Finch said. “The government’s not going to
respond to difficulties with concessions by giving up or saying,
fine, we’ll build public lines. They don’t have the revenue and
fiscal resources to do that anymore.”  Airports have proved to be an easier sell because they are
less prone to attracting government intervention. Ports also
don’t involve limiting returns or as heavy regulation as
railways, Finch said.  Changing Times  Future highway projects were designed at a time when growth
expectations for the economy were higher and traffic was
expected to be heavier, Silveira said. Bigger initial capital
investments will be needed and the government has shown no signs
it’s reviewing those projects, Finch said.  The Planning & Logistics Co., a government transportation
agency known as EPL, declined to comment.  After watching state governments trim increases following
the toll and bus fare protests, investors are concerned there
will be the same treatment on federal projects, Robeco Groep’s
da Costa said.  “They offer low returns and then they compensate that with
subsidized loans from BNDES -- there is a limit to subsidies and
the government is very close to this limit,” da Costa said.
“They have to try to make an environment where at least they
have healthy competition and interested agents.”  The number of companies interested in bidding in the road
auctions is “satisfactory,” said  Luciano Coutinho , president
of BNDES. The government is listening to company concerns, he
told reporters yesterday in Rio de Janeiro, without commenting
specifically about the BR-262 work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  