-- Rubenstein Suggests Jack Lew Try Dueling: Scene in D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-09-17T15:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/rubenstein-suggests-jack-lew-try-dueling-scene-in-d-c-.html
Jack Lew was in the hot seat this
morning.  As the guest of honor at the breakfast given by the
 Economic Club of Washington, D.C. , he got a thorough grilling
from  David Rubenstein .  The club’s president and the co-founder of the Carlyle
Group wanted to know why Lew can’t hold a job.  Since the beginning of the  Barack Obama  administration, Lew
has been director of the office of management and budget, White
House chief of staff, deputy secretary of state, and the
secretary of the treasury, his current post.  Lew said he has trouble saying no to the president. His
next dream job? “Citizen is the highest office we can all
hold.”  As for his infamously loopy signature, revealed on Twitter
this summer, he said he’ll do his best to brush it up for the
sake of the currency.  “I’ve been working on my penmanship for 40 years,” he
told guests gathered at the Grand Hyatt Washington. “It’s a
life-long undertaking.”  “It is bizarre,” said Revolution LLC Chairman  Steve Case 
of Lew’s John Hancock. Case and Lew have teamed up on several
projects.  Others spotted at the breakfast included Swiss Ambassador
Manuel Sager, journalist Chris Matthews and media executive
George Vradenburg III.  Smartest Person  Who was the smartest person Lew worked for?  Bill Clinton ,
 Hillary Clinton  or Barack Obama? Nice try, but Lew said
comparing their intellectual prowess was “a foolhardy
proposition.”  He also passed on talking about possibilities for Federal
Reserve chairman.  Lew stressed the importance of raising the debt limit,
blaming Congress for failing to act.  “Failure to raise the debt limit is a self-inflicted wound
to the economy,” he said. “The time to make policy is before,
not after we make commitments. Congress can get it done. The
time to act is now.”  Rubenstein suggested challenging recalcitrant members to a
duel, like Lew’s 18th-century predecessor  Alexander Hamilton .  Lew didn’t seem to think this was a good idea.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater,  Greg
Evans  on TV.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 