-- Rules to Ease Smartphone Unlocking Sought by U.S. Adviser
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-09-17T22:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/rules-to-ease-smartphone-unlocking-sought-by-u-s-adviser.html
An adviser to President  Barack Obama  asked the  U.S. Federal Communications Commission  to
require wireless providers to unlock smartphones and tablets on
request so they can be used with other carriers’ networks.  “Americans should be able to use their mobile devices on
whatever networks they choose and have their devices unlocked
without hassle,” Lawrence E. Strickling, administrator of the
National Telecommunications & Information Administration, said
in a statement today.  Such a move would supersede a ruling last year by the U.S.
Library of Congress eliminating a copyright exemption that let
consumers unlock new mobile phones without carrier permission.  CTIA-The Wireless Association, a Washington-based trade
group with members including the four largest U.S. providers --
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Sprint Corp. (S)  and  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)  -- called locking mobile phones an essential part
of the wireless industry’s business model, Librarian of Congress
James Billington said in a notice last year.  Justin Cole, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment on
Strickling’s request.  Mignon Clyburn, the acting FCC chairwoman, said she
supports “policies that enable consumers to lawfully unlock
their mobile telephones,” according to a version of her remarks
prepared for delivery at a trade show in  Las Vegas  today.  ‘Transparent Policies’  Tom Wheeler, Obama’s nominee for FCC chairman who is being
considered by the Senate, in June told lawmakers that once a
contract is fulfilled, “we ought to have the right to use that
device and to move it across carriers or whatever as we see
fit,” according to a hearing transcript.  Scott Bergmann, CTIA’s vice president of regulatory
affairs, in a statement today said carriers have “transparent
and competitive unlocking policies.”  CTIA and its members support legislation that would allow
customers to unlock their devices without violating the Digital
Millennium Copyright Act, the trade group said in a July 25
filing with the FCC.  Strickling’s agency submitted a petition and said the
request grew from a citizens’ request to the White House.  Removing a lock on a mobile device wouldn’t affect a
contract a consumer has with a mobile provider, according to a
statement by Strickling’s agency, which advises the president on
communications policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  