-- Russia Calls for Impartial Investigation of Syria Gas Attack
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-09-17T13:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/russia-calls-for-impartial-investigation-of-syria-gas-attack.html
Russia  has “serious grounds” to
consider last month’s Syrian chemical attack a “provocation”
by rebel forces, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said today,
calling for a new inquiry to establish who was responsible.  While United Nations inspectors found that poison sarin gas
was used in the Aug. 21 attack near Syria’s capital, Damascus,
the investigation had no mandate to identify the perpetrators,
Lavrov told reporters in Moscow today after meeting his French
counterpart, Laurent Fabius.  “We want an impartial, objective and professional
investigation of the Aug. 21 events,” Lavrov said. “We have
the most serious grounds to consider it a provocation. Some of
our partners said dictatorially that only the regime could use
such weapons, but the truth must be established.”  Russia has said it suspects the Syrian opposition staged
the attack to provoke Western military intervention in the 2 1/2
year conflict, which has killed more than 100,000 people.  Lavrov met with Fabius in Moscow days after the U.S. and
Russia reached an agreement in Geneva for the destruction of
 Syria ’s chemical stockpile, which lifted the threat of imminent
U.S. military strikes. Russia and Western nations differ on
whether the results of a UN probe released yesterday proved that
the Syrian government was behind the attack on Aug. 21.  The UN team’s conclusion that surface-to-surface rockets
were used in the chemical attack point to the government rather
than its lesser-armed opposition, U.S., U.K. and French envoys
to the UN told reporters yesterday.  Fabius said today that he has “no doubts” the Assad
regime was behind the assault. He called Syria’s willingness to
give up chemical weapons a “major change,” which was only
possible because of the threat of the use of force.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  