-- Ryanair Pushing Customer Focus Lets O’Leary Confront IAG
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-18T09:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/ryanair-pushing-customer-focus-lets-o-leary-confront-iag-threat.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  aims to become
more user-friendly with a simpler website and cooperation with
travel agents, in a cultural revolution for the airline that
pioneered low-cost travel with minimal  customer service .  Ryanair,  Europe ’s No. 1 discount carrier, plans to announce
a website revamp at its annual shareholder meeting on Sept. 20,
said Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary . The company may
also add a handful of longer-distance routes including  Israel 
and is open to cooperation with long-haul carriers, he said.  O’Leary is reviewing a purist approach to flying that’s
delivered Europe’s lowest air fares at the expense of only
rudimentary perks. While efforts to end European losses at
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group will likely fail,
British Airways parent  IAG SA (IAG)  poses a greater challenge with its
Vueling Airlines SA unit, provided CEO  Willie Walsh  resists
merging it with mainline operations, O’Leary said.  “Vueling has a real prospect of success because Willie
gets it, and it has its own culture.” O’Leary said at the World
Low Cost Airlines Congress yesterday at London Heathrow Airport.  Walsh, who shared a podium with O’Leary at the three-day
event, said there’ll be no intervention in the strategy of
Vueling CEO Alex Cruz following this year’s acquisition of a
majority stake in the Barcelona-based company by IAG, as
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA is known.  Screen Scraper  “We’re not going to do anything to change the business
model,” Walsh said. “If BA or Iberia can learn smart things
from Vueling then great, but we’re not going to interfere.”  O’Leary is under pressure to review prices and operations
after saying Sept. 4 that annual profit may miss targets. On
Ryanair’s web portal, a drive to block so-called screen scrapers
that scan pricing data to lure clients, has produced a booking
process that fails to lock in ticket sales early enough in the
procedure and compares poorly to  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , O’Leary said.  “They have been much better on their website,” the CEO
said in an interview Sept. 16 after announcing growth plans for
London Stansted airport. “They make the booking first. We have
to make it easier. We have got to stop making it so difficult.”  O’Leary said he’s also prepared to sell tickets via travel
agents rather than solely through Dublin-based Ryanair’s own
mechanisms, targeting another area where EasyJet has made the
running by linking with corporate buyers to add business fliers.  Long-Haul Pledge  The Irish carrier has agreed to support Stansted owner
Manchester Airports Group’s drive to win long-haul operators to
the London airport. While O’Leary said he’s willing to connect
long-haul passengers onto his own European network, he doesn’t
plan to reciprocate the service and feed his own flights into
other carrier’s long-distance routes.  “As long as there is something we can do to encourage it
that doesn’t compromise our handling costs at Stansted we’d be
very open,” said the CEO, who has previously actively
discouraged people from making transfer bookings, even between
two Ryanair service. “So we are approaching it from a very
positive point of view, but are we looking for alliances with
some long-haul airline - no.”  In a possible departure from high-frequency short-haul
flights, O’Leary said Ryanair, which also competes with
 Norwegian Air Shuttle (NAS)  ASA and Budapest-based Wizz Air Ltd., also
may fly to Israel,  Egypt  and North Africa even if growth in the
next five years will largely focus on western Europe.  Hub-And-Spoke  Ryanair also remains interested in flying to the U.S. under
a new brand once new wide-body planes are more affordable,
O’Leary said. The executive outlined a plan to take seven
aircraft annually to build a fleet of 40 to 50 planes.  While O’Leary expressed optimism that IAG will succeed in
blending long-haul and discount operations, he dismissed
Lufthansa’s efforts with its Germanwings subsidiary. Cologne-based Lufthansa is switching flights that don’t feed its
Frankfurt or Munich hubs to Germanwings in a push to grow
operating profit to 2.3 billion euros ($3 billion) by 2015.  CEO Thomas Winkelmann said Sept. 16 at the conference that
his focus is on keeping costs down, while offering customers the
choice between no-frills flying and upgrades with more leg room
or lounge access.  “The customer doesn’t book a trip thinking shall I fly
low-cost, charter, legacy, hub-and-spoke or point to point,” he
said. “The customer decides I want to go safely from A to B and
then chooses the airline.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  