-- S&P Says Refinancing Risks Weakening Danish Banks: Nordic Credit
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-09-17T07:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/s-p-says-refinancing-risks-weakening-danish-banks-nordic-credit.html
Banks issuing bonds in Denmark’s
$500 billion mortgage market face possible downgrades as
refinancing remains concentrated in too few auctions, according
to  Standard & Poor’s .  Four years after agreeing to move away from annual December
bond offerings, the quarterly auctions banks settled on haven’t
spread out sales enough to reduce the risk that there might not
be buyers for the short-term bonds refinancing mortgages as long
as 30 years, said Per Tornqvist, a Stockholm-based analyst at
S&P.  “Spreading out the auctions hasn’t to date sufficiently
improved ratios that we measure, and still leaves us with Danish
banks scoring comparatively poorly to their peer group of banks
globally,” Tornqvist said in an interview.  Danish lenders, including Nykredit Realkredit A/S and
Realkredit Danmark A/S, the mortgage arm of  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , are
struggling to figure out how they can keep offering their most
popular product -- adjustable-rate loans -- without incurring
downgrades from S&P. The funding mismatch inherent in their
refinancing model presents a risk and lenders need to take steps
over the next two years to reduce the funding or face
downgrades, according to S&P.  Investor Loyalty  Nykredit’s  index of the most-traded Danish mortgage bonds 
was at 401 at the end of last week, compared with a high of 411
in May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bonds in the
index have  returned  34 percent since the end of September 2008,
when the collapse of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. sent global
financial markets into a tailspin. U.S. Treasuries longer than
one year have returned 20 percent over the same period. Since
the crisis began more than five years ago, investor have
remained loyal to Denmark’s mortgage-bond market, which hasn’t
seen any defaults in its more than 200-year history.  Still, the biggest banks in AAA rated Scandinavia are more
vulnerable to funding shocks than peers in the U.S.,  France  and
 Italy , S&P said in July. The  International Monetary Fund  also
warned Sept. 5 that the region as a whole must do more to
fortify its banks. If global wholesale financing markets
tightened sharply, the region’s banks would be hit “hard,” the
Washington-based organization said.  Market Access  About 50 percent of Danish borrowers refinance their
mortgages each year to get new interest rates, resulting in bond
sales as high as $228 billion annually, according to the
Financial Supervisory Authority in Copenhagen. That’s an amount
equal to about 66 percent of Denmark’s economy.  “It’s appropriate that banks can operate without access to
the market for about one year,” Tornqvist said. “That can be
achieved in different ways.”  Nordea Kredit, the mortgage arm of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , last
week became the second lender in two months, after Realkredit
Danmark, to offer loans that are financed by three-year bonds
and carry a rate that adjusts every six months. The Stockholm-based bank also said Sept. 12 it will raise prices from Jan. 1
on adjustable-rate loans, better reflecting their risk while
keeping margins on conventional, fixed-rate loans.  Supplementing loans financed by longer bonds with more
auctions and even selling them through tap issuance, as Swedish
banks do, would have a greater effect on reducing risks than
just offering the new products alone, Tornqvist said.  Even Spread  “Longer maturities, in combination with an even spread of
the debt to be rolled over, is the mechanics of managing
refinancing risks,” Tornqvist said.  Denmark ’s mortgage banks agreed to move to quarterly
auctions of adjustable rate mortgages in 2009, a year after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers froze short-term funding markets.
They have since largely based new loans on bonds maturing in
April, July and October, reducing the amount needed to be
refinanced in December to about half.  The lenders have had limited success in switching borrowers
to longer-maturity loans as benchmark rates in  Europe  remain at
record lows as the region emerges from a recession.  The industry has said borrowers have benefited from the
loans, which helped them tap into record-low rates after Denmark
became a haven from Europe’s debt crisis. Denmark resorted to
negative  interest rates  last year in response to a capital
influx that had threatened the krone’s peg to the euro, pushing
 mortgage rates  to record lows.  In August and September auctions, borrowers refinanced
almost 90 percent of the bonds due Oct. 1 and that were used to
fund adjustable-rate loans, Jan Oestergaard, a senior analyst at
Danske, said last week. Of that, 86 six percent were one-year
bonds.  “If you issue one-year debt only, you remain reliant on
the market being open at all times,” Tornqvist said.
“Spreading out auctions generally is something we have been
watching, because it can have an impact on our assessment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  