-- Jana Seeks Further Safeway Talks After Taking 6.2% Stake
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-09-18T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/safeway-jumps-after-poison-pill-as-unnamed-investor-buys-shares.html
Jana Partners LLC, a New York-based
activist investor, said it may seek further discussions with
 Safeway Inc. (SWY)  about ways to boost returns to shareholders after
buying a 6.2 percent stake in the grocery chain.  Options for the Pleasanton, California-based retailer may
include returning capital to shareholders and replacing
management, Jana said in a filing yesterday. Safeway’s stock
rose 11 percent after Jana disclosed its holding, the biggest
gain among Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies.  Jana, which manages about $5 billion and is run by  Barry Rosenstein , generally invests in companies undergoing changes
such as mergers, spinoffs and bankruptcies, and is known for
pushing management to consider changes. The fund also has stakes
in Boeing Co., DirecTV, Zynga Inc. and Groupon Inc.  The  investment company  disclosed its stake in the second-largest U.S. grocery-store chain after Safeway had earlier
adopted a shareholder rights plan to thwart any unfriendly
takeovers, saying an unidentified investor accumulated a
“significant amount” of stock.  Safeway’s shares closed at $30.99 yesterday, bringing its
gain for the year to 71 percent.  The grocery chain has simplified operations recently by
agreeing to sell its Canadian stores and conducting an initial
public offering of its gift-card unit. The moves may help
increase free cash flow, making Safeway more attractive to
private-equity buyers, said  Joe Feldman , a New York-based
analyst at Telsey Advisory Group.  “Maybe there’s the thought that with the cash flow you
could take on more debt,” he said.  Activist Shareholders  Activist investors are ratcheting up their campaigns,
increasingly targeting America’s biggest companies and seeking
the ouster of chief executive officers. Assets managed by
activist funds have more than doubled over the past five years,
to about $73 billion as of the first quarter, from about $32
billion in 2008, according to data compiled by Hedge Fund
Research.  Among 23 companies where activists have either won
executive or director changes in the past 18 months, 15
outperformed the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 8 fell behind
since the change was completed, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Safeway, which didn’t identify Jana in yesterday’s
statement, said the poison pill will help promote “fair and
equal treatment” of all stockholders. Under the plan, one
preferred stock purchase right will be distributed for each
share of common stock held as of Sept. 30, the chain said.  Canadian Stores  Safeway, second to  Kroger Co. (KR)  among U.S. grocery retailers,
in June agreed to sell its Canadian stores to  Empire Co. (EMP/A) ’s
Sobeys Inc. unit. The transaction will allow Safeway to focus on
its U.S. operations and give it additional cash as it works to
revive sales. Revenue in the three months ended June 15 fell 1.6
percent due in part to lower fuel sales, the company said in
July.  Last year,  revenue  rose 1.3 percent to $44.2 billion after
increasing 6.3 percent in 2011. Sales will decrease about 15
percent this year after the sale of its Canadian unit, according
to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Safeway, which operates about 1,400 stores in the U.S., had
free  cash flow  of $1.57 billion last year, a 69 percent increase
from the previous year. The chain’s  price-to-earnings  ratio of
13.4 trails the 18.2 average ratio of S&P 500 Consumer Staples
Sector Index companies.  Jana’s investment includes options and would be equal to a
4.7 percent stake excluding those derivatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  