-- Salmond Facing Wilson’s Mountain a Year Before Scots Referendum
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2013-09-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/salmond-facing-wilson-s-mountain-a-year-before-scots-referendum.html
Scottish nationalist leader Alex Salmond has a year to climb a mountain scaled by former British
Prime Minister Harold Wilson almost four decades ago.  On this day next year, voters in  Scotland  will decide
whether to pursue independence in the most important referendum
since the 1975 plebiscite on membership of what is now the
European Union. Like Wilson, who wanted Britain to stay in the
Brussels-led bloc and eventually prevailed in the vote, Salmond
has to turn opinion with no major pollster predicting a win.  “Wilson’s trick was to say anything will be better than
what we have now,” said Matt Qvortrup, a  senior researcher  at
Cranfield University who has written a history of referendums.
“They have to hold their nerve and be cool about being behind
and follow a strategy, which is what Wilson did.”  The “yes” campaigners led by Salmond are tasked with
convincing an electorate that gave his Scottish National Party
an unprecedented majority in Edinburgh’s semi-autonomous
legislature, though hasn’t warmed to full independence. The
latest polls show they need to at least win over the swathe of
people who say they are undecided.  Respondents in favor of breaking away from the U.K. dropped
to 25 percent from 30 percent in April, a  TNS BRMB  survey
published on Sept. 4 found. Support for maintaining the status
quo fell to 47 percent from 51 percent. The people who haven’t
made up their minds rose to 28 percent from 19 percent.  In a Panelbase poll for the Sunday Times published on Sept.
15, the result was 47 percent to 37 percent in favor of keeping
the status quo. Sixteen percent of people were undecided. No
margin of error was given for the polls.  Victory Unlikely  “The ‘yes’ vote has been about 30 percent for the past 20
years,” said Michael Keating, professor of politics at  Aberdeen
University . “It’s quite remarkable given the serious campaign
has been going on for the past six months. A clear victory for
the ‘yes’ side looks unlikely.”  After ousting the Labour Party in 2007’s Scottish elections
and then gaining an outright majority four years later, the SNP
set up the vote on creating Europe’s newest state, albeit one
with the pound, Queen Elizabeth II as its head and the Bank of
England still as the lender of last resort.  Salmond’s message is that he and the SNP can run Scotland
from Edinburgh better than Prime Minister David Cameron’s
government can from  London , investing more in local
infrastructure projects, keeping higher education free and
creating funds to help mitigate cuts to social spending.  ‘Better Together’  Cameron and his Conservative Party want to keep the 306-year-old union with Scotland, as does the Labour opposition. The
“Better Together” campaign, which says Scotland is better off
as part of a larger country with more international clout, is
fronted by former Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling.  The division was reflected last week in Edinburgh, where,
along with Glasgow, polls have shown more people are undecided
than in other parts of Scotland. The two cities make up more
than a fifth of the country’s 5.2 million population.  “I like the idea of being independent, I just haven’t made
my mind up,” said Ricky Baillie, 32, co-owner of the Papii cafe
in Edinburgh and a father of two children under three.  For Sarah Wilson, 38, an office worker, the vote is also
about nationality. “I’m not for independence because I feel
British,” she said. “I mean I feel Scottish too, but I’ve got
English in-laws and Irish relatives.”  Economy Question  There have been 49 independence referendums worldwide, both
official and unofficial, according to  research  by Qvortrup. They
range from Texas, Tennessee and  Virginia  in 1861 to  Quebec  in
1980 and the Baltic states and Quebec again in the 1990s. Based
on votes held in democratic countries since World War II, the
average “yes” vote is 62 percent, the study shows.  One issue for the SNP is the recovering U.K. economy.  Gross
domestic product  rose 0.7 percent in the second quarter and
reports suggest growth is gaining traction.  Unemployment (UKUEILOR)  unexpectedly fell to 7.7 percent between May
and July and surveys of purchasing managers showed services and
construction expanding at their fastest pace since the financial
crisis amid housing boom. The government this week sold a 6
percent stake in Lloyds Banking Group Plc, one of the lenders
bailed out in the financial crisis.  “If the economy is bad, then people are more likely to
vote ‘yes,’ but if you see things picking up a little bit then
people will feel there’s no need to risk it,” Qvortrup said in
a telephone interview. “It’s more for the heart strings: what
price will you pay for being Scottish.”  Political Hero  A referendum in Scotland in 1997 backed the re-establishment of the Scottish Parliament, creating the
government and legislature in Edinburgh responsible for such
things as transport, health, the legal system and education. The
U.K. Parliament in London retained power over the broader
economy, the budget and foreign policy.  Britons voted in June 1975 on whether to ratify their
membership of the European Economic Community, which the country
had joined in 1973. Wilson, Salmond’s political hero, according
to a 2010  biography  of the Scottish leader by David Torrance,
turned a deficit in the polls to a 67 percent vote in favor.  The  BBC  called it a “bruising campaign” involving a
rebellion within Wilson’s Labour Party as unions opposed to
membership faced off with the main business lobby.  “Wilson had more of a mountain to climb, so Salmond can
take heart from that,” said Qvortrup. “He has to be as bold as
Wilson and as disciplined in his message. It’s much more
difficult to call than an election.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  