-- Samberg’s New Cop Sitcom; PBS’s Brilliant Shakespeare: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-09-17T15:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/samberg-updates-cop-sitcom-bbc-s-brilliant-bards-tv.html
The brainchild of producers Sam Mendes and Pippa Harris, PBS’s “ The Hollow Crown ” makes
inspired use of Britain’s top-rung stage directors and actors to
present a mostly splendid miniseries of four connected
Shakespeare jewels.  “Crown” kicks off the 40th season of “Great Performances”
with “Richard II,” which is chronologically accurate if
dramatically unfortunate. Directed by Rupert Goold and starring
Ben Whishaw as the poet-king, it’s the weakest of the four
parts.  The chatty “Richard” isn’t exactly TV-friendly; jousts
are planned and debated, not actually fought, pushing Goold to
rouse us with camp and color.  Splendorous in flowing robes and beehive head scarves,
Whishaw’s effete, arch king is a white-and-gold sunburst in a
black-and-gray world.  By contrast, Richard’s rival, the ever-sincere rebel
Bolingbroke (a convincing Rory Kinnear), is pure butch tedium.
Squint at his pantaloons and you’ll see medieval Dockers.  Whishaw’s Richard seems barely to recognize his own wife,
flirts with a loin-clothed model posing as St. Sebastian and
positively lights up in the presence of handsome favored cousin
John of Lancaster (Henry Faber).  Whishaw -- who has said his portrayal was partly inspired
by  Michael Jackson , as if the pet monkey weren’t evidence enough
-- overplays the feyness. Yet the preening seems less a
revisionist spin than a royal addiction to pageantry. Richard
remains the ultimate drama queen to the bitter, bloody and well-posed end.  More consistently enthralling is Tom Hiddleston’s Prince
Hal and, especially, Simon Russell Beale’s Falstaff in both
parts of “Henry IV.”  Jeremy Irons  Hal wins us over early, with his pub-pleasing mockery of
his father (and Hiddleston’s spot-on imitation of  Jeremy Irons ,
an appealingly gruff, well-meaning King Henry).  The three “Henrys” (two directed by Richard Eyre, the
final by Thea Sharrock) are gorgeously filmed, and less
preciously art-directed than “Richard.”  Best of all, “The Hollow Crown” offers an unmissable
opportunity to see the U.K.’s deep bench of character actors go
for broke, from Beale’s wild-haired Falstaff and Julie Walters’s
poignant Mistress Quickly to  Patrick Stewart , who, as John of
Gaunt, delivers the “blessed plot” ode to  England  in vivid,
extreme close-up.  “The Hollow Crown” airs Fridays, September 20 through
October 11 on PBS at 9 p.m.  New York  time. Rating: ****  ‘Brooklyn Nine-Nine’  Andy Samberg, the former “ Saturday Night Live ” hipster
and viral maestro, has lately seemed all too content to follow
 Adam Sandler ’s dismally sophomoric career path.  So “ Brooklyn Nine-Nine ,” his very promising police
sitcom, is welcome indeed.  The Fox comedy was created by Dan Goor and Michael Schur,
who bring their “ Parks and Recreation ” approach -- single
camera, flinty characters -- to the workaday Brooklyn setting.  Samberg plays detective Jake Peralta, his precinct’s
resident goofball and crackerjack crime stopper, butting heads
with his by-the-book captain (Andre Braugher).  Sounds familiar, right? But even as it employs these
ancient tropes, “Nine-Nine” puts a contemporary spin on
things. For starters, Braugher’s hard-nose, tough-guy cop is
openly gay.  And when the wisecracking Jake gets temporarily reassigned
to a desk job in the records room, he scoffs at the cliche plot
device. “Computers have been invented, right?” he says. “I
didn’t dream that?”  “Brooklyn Nine-Nine” airs Tuesdays beginning Sept. 17 on
Fox at 8:30 p.m. New York time. Rating: ***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and
Patrick Cole on  music .  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 