-- Santos Says Colombians Would Back FARC in Congress to Seal Peace
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2013-09-17T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/santos-says-colombians-would-back-farc-in-congress-to-seal-peace.html
President  Juan Manuel Santos  said
Colombians would accept a deal granting unelected guerrilla
leaders seats in Congress if it brings an end to a conflict that
has left 220,000 dead.  The war against the Revolutionary Armed Forces of  Colombia ,
or FARC, is the biggest “brake” preventing the Andean nation
from realizing its full potential, Santos said in an interview
yesterday. With peace talks continuing in  Havana , Santos said an
accord that will need to be approved in a national vote could be
ready before presidential elections in May.  Voters would pass a referendum containing unpopular
measures such as the transformation of the FARC into a political
party and special treatment in the justice system for crimes
committed by guerrillas, as part of a package that ends half a
century of bloodshed, Santos said. The process is complicated by
opponents who “extrapolate and magnify” some issues in order
to frighten the public, rather than weighing them as part of a
pact that brings peace, he said.  “I was very aware since the beginning that it would be
very difficult to sell to public opinion,” Santos, 62, said in
his office at the presidential palace in Bogota. “But I can
assure you that if you have a sensible package, people will
accept it. People are tired of war.”  Pipeline Attacks  Since he was elected in 2010, Santos’s government has
tracked down and killed the group’s top two leaders and dozens
of its mid-level commanders, weakening one of the world’s oldest
guerrilla groups. Still, the FARC continues to control swathes
of territory and mount attacks on army patrol and oil pipelines.
The government rejected the FARC’s offer of a ceasefire during
the talks, to prevent them from regrouping.  On Aug. 25, the guerrillas killed 13 soldiers near the
Colombian border with  Venezuela , according to El Tiempo,
Colombia’s biggest newspaper, which was controlled by Santos’
family until 2007.  The rebels also stepped up attacks on the  oil  industry,
which accounts for more than half of the country’s  exports . The
Ministry of Defense reported 138 attacks on oil pipelines in the
first eight months of this year, up from 119 in the same period
a year ago.  After the failure of the last peace talks in 2002,
Colombians elected President  Alvaro Uribe , who advocated a hard
line against the FARC. Under his presidency, the government
strengthened its armed forces and, backed by U.S. military aid,
retook territory from the guerrillas. Santos was Uribe’s defense
minister from 2006 to 2009.  Peso Rally  The Colombian peso has rallied 47 percent in the past
decade, the best performing major currency in  Latin America .
Colombia’s IGBC stock index has gained 552 percent in local
currency terms over the same period, compared to a 228 percent
gain for  Brazil ’s benchmark Ibovespa index.  “We’ve been a country that has been at war for more than
50 years, 220,000 people have been killed in the most difficult
circumstances,” Santos, who studied at the  London School of
Economics  and  Harvard University , said. “If we are able to take
that out of the Colombian scenario then we can unleash much more
potential.”  Santos declined to say how the peace negotiations are
proceeding, citing the government’s agreement with the FARC that
details discussed at the table won’t be mentioned in public.  As talks continue, Santos’s approval ratings have plunged
to a record low after students and truck drivers joined farmers
in nationwide protests amid growing discontent with the economy.  Tumbling Support  The number of Colombians with a favorable image of Santos
dropped to 21 percent at the end of August from 48 percent in
June, according to a Gallup poll published by Caracol Radio and
El Tiempo newspaper.  Economic growth quickened to 4 percent or more in the
second quarter from  2.8 percent  in the previous three months,
led by a jump in agricultural output and public works spending,
Santos said. The official report is due Sept. 19.  Internal polls obtained by the Presidency show that his
popularity has more than doubled since the height of protests
last month, Santos said. He declined to say whether he will run
for a second term, saying that this would curb his “room for
maneuver.” He has until the end of November to announce his
decision.  Meanwhile, Santos said the peace talks are his priority.  “It might be wishful thinking,” he said. “But I am
optimistic that we will reach an agreement before the
elections.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  