-- Saudi Arabia’s Al Jaber Bids for Stake in Portugal Resort
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-09-17T16:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/saudi-arabia-s-al-jaber-bids-for-stake-in-portugal-golf-resort.html
Sheikh Mohamed bin Issa  al Jaber  is
bidding for a stake in a Portuguese golf and beach resort
popular with sports stars such as soccer’s Cristiano Ronaldo as
 Saudi Arabia ’s third-richest person seeks to expand his hotel
business.  Al Jaber’s JJW Hotels & Resorts Ltd. offered to buy the
share of  Vale  do Lobo resort held by Portuguese state-owned bank
 Caixa Geral de Depositos  as well as loans to the business,
Carlos Rocha, chief executive officer of JJW Hotels in  Portugal ,
said in an interview. The company already owns half a dozen
properties in the country’s southern Algarve region, where Vale
do Lobo is located.  Luis Goldschmidt, a spokesman at Caixa Geral in Lisbon,
declined to comment on the lender’s stake in Vale do Lobo or
loans to the company. Officials at the resort weren’t
immediately available.  Caixa Geral owned a 24 percent stake in Vale do Lobo as of
2011, according to an earnings statement for that year. JJW’s
Rocha declined to comment on the value of the bid or the amount
of the resort’s debt to the bank.  Tourist Destination  Sun, sand and golf have long attracted tourists to Vale do
Lobo’s villas and two golf courses alongside the Atlantic Ocean.
Real Madrid forward Ronaldo spent time at Vale do Lobo before
joining the Spanish soccer club in 2009 and  John McEnroe  is
among a handful of tennis stars that have played tournaments at
the resort, according to the Vale do Lobo website.  A drop in real estate prices is also attracting investors
such as Al Jaber to seek assets in the Algarve, which accounts
for one in three visitors to Portugal.  Home prices  in Portugal
fell 3.9 percent in June from the same period a year earlier,
Confidencial Imobiliario, a company that collects data on the
 property market , said Sept. 12.  “Details of the plan to grow the JJW Hotels & Resorts
brand in Portugal will be unveiled by the end of the year,”
said Rocha.  JJW Hotels owns half a dozen properties in Portugal,
including Le Meridien Penina hotel, the first five-star hotel in
the region. Its management will be transferred to JJW Hotels
from the  Starwood Hotels (HOT)  & Resorts Worldwide Inc. on Oct. 1,
according to Rocha. The hotel will be rebranded as the Penina
Golf Resort.  Al Jaber started MBI International, which has a net asset
value of more than $9 billion, according to the company’s
 website . JJW Hotels is a unit of MBI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  