-- Schaeffler Raises $1.3 Billion in Continental Stake Sale
-- B y   A n g e l a   M a i e r
-- 2013-09-17T10:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/schaeffler-sells-4-of-continental-shares-to-pay-down-debt.html
Schaeffler AG and its holding
company Schaeffler Verwaltungs GmbH raised about 950 million
euros ($1.3 billion) to repay debt by selling a combined 4
percent stake in  Continental AG. (CON)   The biggest stockholder in  Europe ’s second-largest car-parts maker placed 7.8 million Continental shares at a price of
122.50 euros each, the Herzogenaurach, Germany-based company
said today in a statement. The stock was sold at a 3.5 percent
discount to yesterday’s  closing  level.  “This takes pressure off Schaeffler,” which still has
enough votes to control Continental’s shareholders meetings,
said  Frank Schwope , an analyst with NordLB in Hanover,  Germany .  Prior to the sale, the Schaeffler group had borrowings
totaling 10.3 billion euros stemming from its takeover of a
majority of Continental in early 2009. Since then, Schaeffler
has been reducing its holding in the Hanover, Germany-based
manufacturer and refinancing debt to lower costs.  Closely held Schaeffler still owns 46 percent of
Continental and doesn’t plan to reduce the stake further in
order to maintain a “safe majority” at the annual meeting,
Chief Financial Officer Klaus Rosenfeld said today.  Continental shares  fell  as much as 4.3 percent to 121.50
euros and were down 3.6 percent as of 12:26 p.m. in Frankfurt
trading. The stock has climbed 40 percent this year, valuing the
German supplier at 24.5 billion euros.  ‘Strategic Importance’  “The further reduction of debt is an important step for
the continuous successful development of our company,” Maria-Elisabeth Schaeffler and her son Georg, the manufacturer’s
owners, said in the statement. “We will maintain our
shareholding in Continental as it is of long-term and strategic
importance to us.”  Schaeffler AG, which makes bearings for autos and
industrial equipment, will use an additional 325 million euros
in excess  cash flow  to repay a total of 1.28 billion euros of
debt for the group, the company said.  The proceeds help to reduce net debt to 5.5 bln euros at
Schaeffler AG and to 3.2 billion euros at the holding company
owned by Maria-Elisabeth and Georg which is the parent of
Schaeffler AG, Rosenfeld said during a conference call.  “We’re bringing down debt to about 9 billion euros, which
will be hopefully recognized by the rating agencies,” he said
during a conference call. “The share sale is another important
step toward deleveraging the company.”  The company agreed not to sell additional Continental stock
for at least 180 days as part of the placement, which was
managed by  Goldman Sachs Group. (GS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Maier in Munich at 
 amaier8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  