-- SEC Approves Publicly Reporting Trades of Privately Placed Bonds
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-09-17T18:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/sec-approves-publicly-reporting-trades-of-privately-placed-bonds.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission approved a plan to publicly report trades of
privately placed corporate bonds.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the private-sector overseer of U.S. brokerages, asked the SEC for permission
to use the Trace price-reporting system for the securities, and
the U.S. government agency  authorized  the proposal on Sept. 6.
Finra will announce the start of the system within 60 days of
the SEC’s decision.  “In approving the original Trace rules, the commission
stated that price transparency plays a fundamental role in
promoting the fairness and efficiency of U.S. capital markets,”
the SEC said in its Sept. 6 statement. “To further the goal of
increasing price transparency in the debt markets in general and
the market for rule 144A securities in particular, the
commission now believes that it is reasonable and consistent
with the act for Finra to extend post-trade price transparency
to Rule 144A transactions.”  Trace reporting, which was introduced in four stages
beginning in 2002, has reduced trading of corporate bonds while
cutting price volatility in the $4.2 trillion-a-year market,
researchers at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and
 Harvard University  said earlier this month. Junk bond trading
fell 15.2 percent and price dispersion shrank 8.5 percent in the
90 days after the final three phases started, according to the
 study  that used Finra data.  JOBS Act  The price and size of trades of privately placed corporate
bonds will be reported through Trace. As is also the case with
regular corporate bonds tracked by Trace, the system won’t
reveal the size of transactions greater than $5 million for
investment-grade securities and $1 million for high-yield, high-risk debt -- or bonds rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s  -- according to
the SEC decision.  The change follows the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act,
a U.S. law approved last year that eliminated the prohibition
against advertising private placements. Finra said it previously
didn’t report trades of these securities to avoid violating that
ban.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  