-- Second-Poorest EU Nation Yields Best Bonds
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-09-18T10:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/second-poorest-eu-nation-yields-best-bonds.html
Romania, the second-poorest member
of the European Union, is lavishing bond investors with the best
returns in emerging markets on prospects for interest-rate cuts
and a loan from the  International Monetary Fund .  An index of local-currency  notes  gained 1.8 percent since
May 22, when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
policy makers may pare asset purchases, the biggest advance
among JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s emerging-market local-bond index.
The  global composite gauge  lost 3.9 percent in the period.  Romania, whose economic transition away from communism has
been hobbled by graft and political instability over two
decades, is luring bond investors as the nine-month-old
government cuts spending and completes a 4 billion-euro ($5.3
billion) IMF stand-by loan deal. Inflation is the slowest in 13
months, allowing the central bank to lower rates to feed an
economic recovery and the cabinet to shore up financing with a
foreign-currency bond sale last week.  “There are not many central banks left in the emerging-market world who are still in an easing cycle,” Abbas Ameli-Renani, a strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 London , said by e-mail on Sept. 13. “Romania’s credibility
stands in good shape among international investors.”  Budget Cuts  Leu debt has had positive returns in 19 of the past 20
months, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
Poland’s zloty notes, the most-liquid fixed-income instrument
among former communist EU members, showed losses in five of
eight months this year, the data show.  The Balkan country of 20 million people, for decades one of
 Europe ’s most restrictive communist regimes under Nicolae Ceausescu, is coming into the spotlight as the government
carries out one of the EU’s biggest deficit-reduction programs.
It envisages cutting the fiscal shortfall to 2.3 percent of
gross domestic product this year from 7.2 percent in 2009.  Romania’s annual  inflation  rate dropped to 3.7 percent last
month from 6 percent in January. It will fall to 3.1 percent in
December, the central bank projected on Aug. 7 in a second
downward revision of its forecast this year.  Slowing price growth is creating “more room” to reduce
official borrowing costs, Governor Mugur Isarescu said on Aug.
5, when policy makers lowered the  benchmark  rate by half a
percentage point to a record-low 4.5 percent. The rate will
decline to 4 percent in December, according to the median
forecast from a Bloomberg survey of 15 economists.  Russia, Chile  That makes the country one of three  emerging markets ,
alongside Russia and  Chile , where borrowing costs are set to
fall by at least half a percentage point in less than four
months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. While borrowing costs
in Turkey and  Brazil  are set to rise, Poland’s interest rates
will stay unchanged, according to separate surveys.  “Local-currency bonds should be among the best in a one-year horizon,” Martin Marinov, who helps oversee $1 billion of
emerging-market debt at Raiffeisen Kapitalanlage in Vienna, said
by e-mail on Sept. 12. He said he is overweight on leu bonds.  While Romania has attracted bondholders, the IMF still
wants Prime Minister Victor Ponta to boost efficiency in the
public sector, especially in health care, and tackle corruption,
which according to Berlin-based  Transparency International  is
the fourth-worst in the EU after  Italy ,  Bulgaria  and  Greece .  External Sentiment  The IMF also wants Ponta to sell stakes in utilities,
including natural-gas producer Romgaz SA, hydropower plant
Hidroelectrica SA and nuclear operator Nuclearelectrica SA, it
said on July 31. Romania’s per-capita income, adjusted for
purchasing power, amounts to 49 percent of the EU average,
Eurostat data show.  The IMF’s board is set to approve the stand-by loan, which
it will provide jointly with the EU, in the last 10 days of
September, Budget Minister Liviu Voinea said on Sept. 5. The IMF
is scheduled to discuss the loan on Sept. 27, according to a
 calendar of meetings  published on the lender’s website.  Yields on five-year leu notes may rise to more than 5.5
percent from 4.67 percent today if the Fed’s stimulus rollback
is “sharper,” weakening sentiment toward riskier assets,
according to Erste Group Bank AG. That compares with yields of
3.81 percent on similar-maturity Polish notes and 5.41 percent
on equivalent Hungarian securities.  “The price of Romanian assets will undoubtedly come under
pressure if external sentiment takes a turn for the worse,”
Erste analysts, led by Vienna-based Juraj Kotian, said in a
research note two days ago. “This will make it more difficult
for the central bank to continue the monetary easing cycle.”  Credit Ratings  Romania is rated Baa3 at Moody’s Investors Service, its
lowest investment grade, and at BB+, the highest junk rating, at
 Standard & Poor’s , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The yield on the 1.5 billion euros of September 2020 notes
Romania sold on Sept. 12 fell one basis point or 0.01 percentage
point, to 4.6 percent at 12:01 p.m. in Bucharest, compared with
a rate of 5.22 percent on equivalent Hungarian euro-denominated
debt and 2.46 percent on Polish notes.  Romania has 4 billion euros of debt maturing this year and
7.4 billion euros in debt due in 2014, data collected by
Bloomberg show. Last week’s Eurobond sale signals external
funding “is done” for this year, Raiffeisen’s Marinov said.  “Though I expect the realization of Fed tapering to exert
pressure on emerging assets,  Romania  will be a regional
outperformer,” Ameli-Renani at RBS said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net 
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ; 