-- Smallest Ships Profitable Again as Logs Feed China Boom: Freight
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n   a n d   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-09-17T01:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/smallest-ships-profitable-again-as-logs-feed-china-boom-freight.html
China  is building the most property
in at least a decade, expanding shipments of logs and adding to
record commodity cargoes that are making the merchant fleet’s
smallest ships profitable for the first time since 2011.  Global trade in logs will expand 10 percent to 127 million
cubic meters (4.5 billion cubic feet) in 2013, according to Wood
Resources International LLC, a research company in Bothell,
 Washington . Daily rates for 550-foot-long Handysizes will climb
29 percent to $9,750 next year, according to the median of nine
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Investors may profit by
buying freight swaps that are trading at $8,019, or 18 percent
less than the forecast.  China uses most of the wood in construction and the amount
of floor space being developed is the highest for this time of
year since at least 2002, government data show. Global trade in
dry-bulk commodities is rising to a record as demand strengthens
for everything from coal to iron ore. That’s helping absorb the
biggest capacity glut in shipping since at least 1986 just as
the Handysize fleet grows at the slowest pace in four years,
boosting rates for  Pacific Basin (2343)  Shipping Ltd. and other owners.  “We’re seeing more cargoes for log carriers and other
smaller dry-bulk segments and fewer new ships being delivered,”
said Marius Magelie, an analyst at ABG Sundal Collier in Oslo
whose recommendations on the shares of shipping companies
returned 34 percent in the past two years. “Rising demand for
dry-bulk cargoes will buoy all classes of shipping.”  Maritime Routes  Daily rates rose 18 percent to $7,805 this year, according
to the Baltic Exchange, the London-based publisher of shipping
costs on more than 50 maritime routes. Forward freight
agreements, traded by brokers and used to bet on future shipping
costs, rallied 4.8 percent in the past month. Handysizes, which
also carry cement, steel, sugar and fertilizers, need $8,400 to
break even, Oslo-based Arctic Securities ASA estimates.  Chinese log imports will jump 13 percent to 39.8 million
cubic meters this year, accounting for 39 percent of the global
increase, according to Wood Resources.  Most Chinese log imports are soft woods for sawing into
lumber, of which as much as 80 percent is used in construction,
Wood Resources estimates. Builders were  developing  almost 5.86
billion square meters (63 billion square feet) of floor space at
the end of last month, from 5.12 billion square meters a year
earlier, government data show.  Hard Woods  The remaining 30 percent of log imports is hard woods such
as oak and teak used in furniture and flooring, according to Bob
Flynn, a director at RISI, a forestry research company in
Bedford,  Massachusetts . Softwood imports rose 17 percent in the
first seven months and may exceed the record set in 2011, Flynn
said. New Zealand supplies 34 percent of the shipments,  Russia 
31 percent and the U.S. 16 percent, RISI estimates.  While the amount of floor space being developed is still
expanding, the rate of growth slowed to 14.4 percent in August,
from 15.6 percent a year earlier, the government data show.
Construction of new homes expanded 4 percent to 1.28 billion
square meters between January and August compared with a year
earlier. The increase in the January-to-July new-building
program was 8.4 percent compared with a year earlier.  The world’s second-largest economy decelerated in nine of
the past 10 quarters and will expand 7.5 percent this year, the
slowest pace since 1990, according to the median of 53 economist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The International Monetary Fund cut its forecast for world
trade growth twice this year, most recently to 3.1 percent.
About 90 percent of world trade travels by sea, the Round Table
of International Shipping Associations estimates.  Existing Capacity  Handysize rates slumped from a peak of $49,397 in 2008 as
companies ordered too many new ships just before the start of
the global recession. Ship yards still have contracts equal to
19 percent of existing capacity, from as much as 44 percent in
2009, according to IHS Maritime, a Coulsdon, England-based
research company. The fleet will expand 0.2 percent in 2013, the
least since a 0.5 percent contraction in 2009, Clarkson says.  Pacific Basin is the largest owner with a core fleet of 135
Handysizes, according to data on its website. All but 19 have
the steel bars used to secure logs, equipment lacked by 50
percent of the global fleet, Chief Operating Officer Jan Rindbo
said by e-mail Aug. 5. The Hong Kong-based company’s log
shipments expanded 32 percent in the first half from a year
earlier, he said.  Pacific Basin will report a profit of $24.7 million this
year, from a loss of $158.5 million in 2012, according to the
mean of 10 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The shares
rose 14 percent to HK$5.23 since the start of January. They will
reach HK$6.50 in 12 months, according to Jefferies Hong Kong
Ltd., which gave the most recent  forecast  tracked by Bloomberg.  Onboard Cranes  The next-biggest publicly listed owners are COSCO Group,
China’s biggest shipper, and Tokyo-based Daiichi Chuo K.K.,
according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker.
Handysizes often have cranes on board, allowing them to go to
ports that lack equipment to move cargoes, according to  D/S
Norden A/S (DNORD) , Europe’s largest commodity shipping company.  Global trade in dry-bulk commodities will expand 5 percent
to 4.29 billion metric tons this year, Clarkson estimates.
Capacity across the combined dry-bulk fleet, which also includes
larger Panamaxes and Capesizes, is about 30 percent bigger than
demand, the largest excess since at least 1986, the broker said
in a report last month.  The ClarkSea Index, a measure of industrywide earnings,
averaged $9,187 a day this year, the lowest since 1990, Clarkson
estimates. The glut of supertankers hauling 2 million barrels of
oil is the biggest since 1985, according to Fearnley Consultants
AS, a maritime research company in Oslo.  Trade Organization  China’s wood purchases from Russia, most of which are
delivered by rail, fell 0.6 percent in the first half, according
to the International Trade Centre, an agency of the United
Nations and World Trade Organization. That means more exports
from New Zealand,  Australia  and North America, all of which are
carried by sea, Pacific Basin’s Rindbo said.  “The market is getting better balanced and we’ll see
freight rates rising again,” he said. “Small changes in supply
and demand can have a large impact on rates.”  Shares of  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919) , which also owns oil
tankers and container ships, advanced 3.9 percent this year.
They will decline 18 percent to HK$3.25 in 12 months, according
to the average of 20 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The 12-member Bloomberg Dry Ships Index gained 28 percent
this year, compared with a 13 percent increase in the MSCI All-World Index of equities. The Baltic Dry Index, a benchmark of
commodity shipping rates, jumped 46 percent this month to the
highest since December 2011, according to the exchange.  “Demand for the whole dry-bulk market looks very good,”
said Jonas Kraft, an analyst at Pareto Securities AS in Oslo.
“Handysizes can benefit most when there is an increase in trade
across lots of commodities, which is what we are seeing now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net ;
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  