-- SNB Evolves Franc Cap Rationale as Crisis Risks Recede
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-09-18T12:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/snb-evolves-franc-cap-rationale-as-crisis-risks-recede.html
Swiss National Bank  President
Thomas Jordan is about to explain why he’s keeping the ceiling
on the franc even if the crisis that justified it has receded.  Two years after the SNB implemented a cap of 1.20 per euro
to protect Switzerland’s economy from deflation and recession
amid the sovereign debt turmoil affecting its neighbors, Jordan
will probably stress at tomorrow’s quarterly decision that the
tool remains necessary even though such threats have diminished.  SNB officials this month reiterated the need for the
measure that has prompted them to build up reserves equal to
three quarters of economic output at a time of global friction
on currency policies. When the central bank introduced the limit
in 2011, the franc was close to parity with the euro and the 17-nation bloc was poised to enter a record recession. The currency
has since weakened and the region returned to growth.  “The SNB’s original justification isn’t valid anymore,”
said Oliver Adler, head of economic research for Credit Suisse
in Zurich, who predicts the ceiling will stay in place until at
least the end of 2014. “The risk of  Switzerland  slipping into
deflation next year seems very low.”  Switzerland’s 21-month streak of falling prices came to a
halt in June, the economy completed a year of growth in the
second quarter and investor confidence hit a five-month high in
September. Still, the franc remains more than 20 percent
stronger than in September 2008, when Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. collapsed and according to a gauge in the SNB’s monthly
bulletin on the Swiss currency’s trade-weighted strength, the
franc was overvalued by nearly 11 percent in July.  SNB Decision  Such considerations may color the SNB’s statement tomorrow,
when it will leave its target for three-month franc Libor at
zero, according to all 21 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
It also will maintain the franc ceiling, the survey shows. The
announcement is due at 9:30 a.m. in Zurich.  The franc traded at 1.2371 against the euro at 2:14 p.m.
local time today, little changed from yesterday. It stood at
92.64 centimes against the dollar.  “They’ll be very cautious in interpreting the outlook for
 Europe , and very cautious on the floor for some time,” said
 Paul Robson , a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in  London . “We may not see the acute stress levels
that we’ve had in the past, but I think it would be unwise to
extrapolate from a few good pieces of data that Europe is set to
recover strongly.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has repeatedly
highlighted the fragility of a euro-area upswing, saying this
month that the recovery “is only in its infancy.” Industrial
output contracted more than economists forecast in July and
European car sales slid in August to the least since records
started in 1990.  Crisis Risks  Jordan has continually stressed the risk of a debt crisis
flare-up, saying on Sept. 2 in an interview with Berner Zeitung
that he has no intention of giving up the cap.  Even so, the SNB may raise its growth prediction tomorrow
from a current outlook of between 1 percent and 1.5 percent,
after the economy expanded 0.5 percent in the second quarter.  “The SNB will have to revise its current forecast up
significantly,” said Alessandro Bee, an economist at Bank J.
Safra Sarasin Ltd. in Zurich. “However, the SNB will point out
that it expects gross domestic product growth to slow in the
second half.”  Swiss GDP will expand 1.6 percent this year, according to
the median of 27 forecasts in Bloomberg’s monthly survey of
economists. Switzerland’s State Secretariat for Economic Affairs
will publish its own predictions at 7:45 a.m. tomorrow.  Growth Outlook  Such a “growth outlook looks solid in a pan-European
comparison, eventually keeping appreciation pressure on the
franc,” according to Reto Huenerwadel, a senior economist at
UBS AG in Zurich. With the economy expanding, “the
argumentation of the Swiss National Bank is going to turn more
closely to the deflation story,” he said.  The SNB currently sees consumer prices falling 0.3 percent
this year and rising 0.2 percent next year, and 0.7 percent in
2015. That’s well below its 2 percent price stability threshold.  While the Swiss economy is outperforming other European
countries, not all areas are faring so well. The industrial
sector has contracted, with machinery-makers hit particularly
hard. The banking sector is having to change the way it does
business due to a tax evasion crackdown by foreign governments.  “We need to see a more consistent, sustainable and broadly
based improvement in risk sentiment on top of the recent
improvement in the economic outlook for the franc to start
weakening more markedly,” said Nordea Chief Analyst Anders Svendsen. “Looking ahead, numerous event risks remain.”  Arsenal Exhausted  Looking back at the franc ceiling, Michael Cross, the Bank
of England’s head of foreign exchange, told the TradeTech FX
conference in London yesterday that the SNB’s actions followed
the exhaustion of its arsenal.  “It was an unusual thing to do, but understandable given
the circumstances,” he said. “They had tried pretty much
everything before they did that in terms increasing domestic
 money supply , forcing rates negative and they’d gone through the
textbook of what a central bank does to loosen monetary
conditions and they’d pretty much reached the end of the road.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  