-- Socar Offers Azeri Light Crude; Angola to Boost November Exports
-- B y   L a u r a   H u r s t   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-09-17T16:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/socar-offers-azeri-light-crude-angola-to-boost-november-exports.html
Socar Trading SA failed to sell
Azeri Light crude for early October. Royal Dutch Shell Plc
sought to buy  North Sea  Forties, while no bids or offers emerged
in the Platts window for Russian Urals blend.  Angola ,  Africa ’s second-largest oil producer, will export
56 crude cargoes in November, two more than in October, a
preliminary loading program obtained by Bloomberg News showed.  North Sea  Shell unsuccessfully bid for Forties for loading Oct. 8 to
Oct. 12 at a premium of 74 cents a barrel to Dated Brent,
according to a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers
monitoring the Platts pricing window. The bid was 17 cents lower
than BP Plc’s offer yesterday for an end-September cargo.
Forties traded last week at plus 65 cents and $1.09 a barrel.  Brent for November settlement traded at $108.37 a barrel on
the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange at the close of the window,
compared with $110.06 from the previous session. The December
contract was at $107.49, a discount of 88 cents to November.  Repair works to the Ekofisk oil platform are scheduled to
start Sept. 20 and will cause a partial halt for about seven
days, according to three people with knowledge of the operations
who asked not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  ConocoPhillips had nothing to add from its statement last
week when it confirmed Ekofisk 2/4 J will partly shut for works,
Kris Sava, a Houston-based spokesman for the company, said today
in an e-mail.  Urals/Mediterranean  Socar didn’t manage to sell 600,000 barrels of Azeri Light
for Sept. 30 to Oct. 4 loading at a premium of $4.70 more than
Dated Brent, according to the survey.  Russia will ship 11 Urals cargoes of 100,000 metric ton
each from the Baltic port of Primorsk from Sept. 30 to Oct. 7, a
preliminary loading program obtained by  Bloomberg News  showed.
Seven lots will load from Ust-Luga, while three 140,000 ton
cargoes and four 80,000-ton shipments will load from
Novorossiysk.  Libya  lifted a force majeure on the Zawiya and Mellitah oil
ports, the country’s state-run National Oil Corp. said today on
its website. The terminals have been able to handle crude
shipments since noon today, NOC said. Libya issued a force
majeure on the two terminals and Hariga on Sept. 12 because of
continued strikes.  The 120,000 barrel-a-day Zawiya refinery is receiving crude
from the Sharara field, Nuri Berruien, chairman of the NOC, said
today in an interview in Tripoli. Technical issues at the
pipeline are preventing oil from the Elephant, or El Feel, field
from reaching the refinery, Berruien added.  Iran  widened discounts it will charge customers in October
for sales of all off its grades to Europe and the Mediterranean
region, an official at the National Iranian Oil Co. said, asking
not to be identified, citing company policy.  NIOC lowered premiums for its Forozan, Light and Heavy
grades for delivery in Northwest Europe to discounts of $1.10 to
$3 to Brent futures weighted average, or BWAVE, posted on the
ICE Europe exchange.  Pumping of Iraqi Kirkuk blend to the Turkish port of Ceyhan
was halted yesterday at 10 p.m. local time, according to port
agent Boutros Maritime & Transport SA. About 350,000 barrels of
crude are available for loading, it said.  West Africa  Shipments of Angolan crude in October will total 52.28
million barrels, or 1.74 million barrels a day, the plan showed.
That compares with a revised plan of 51.76 million, or 1.67
million barrels a day, this month. Most consignments are of
950,000 to 1 million barrels. The final program will be released
on Sept. 26.  Exports for Saturno crude for October were reduced to four
cargoes from five after two lots were deferred to November, and
an extra lot was added, according to a revised program.  Shell chartered the very large crude carrier KHK Vision to
load West African grades on Oct. 4 to Cilacap in  Indonesia ,
according to three tanker reports, including one from Athens-based Optima Shipbrokers. PT Pertamina operates a 348,000
barrel-a-day refinery in Cilacap, Bloomberg data show.  Shell may have sold crude cargoes to Pertamina via private
negotiations because the latter company did not award any
tenders for West African crudes in November, said two traders
who participate in the market and asked not to be identified
because the information is confidential.  An Indian Oil Corp. tender for Nov. 1 to Nov. 15 closes
tomorrow at 3pm local time, with offers valid until 5pm Sept.
18, according to a document obtained by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  