-- Microsoft-Sony Battle Broadens to Romance Games at Show
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-09-18T09:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/sony-microsoft-battle-broadens-to-romance-games-at-tokyo-show.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Sony Corp. (6758)  are
battling more than just each other as they showcase new consoles
at the Tokyo Game Show. They’re also fighting for the attention
of players of romance fantasies like “Kiss of Revenge.”  Role-playing games, cloud-based gaming and vendors hawking
products for costume-wearing fans are taking up more floor space
as the  show  opens tomorrow in the birthplace of video-game
machines. A record 342  exhibitors  will attend the last major
trade event before the  holiday shopping season .  Sony and Microsoft are offering hands-on trials of the
PlayStation 4 and Xbox One as they try to kick-start growth in a
$63 billion  industry  by featuring consoles and software costing
hundreds of dollars. The companies are pitching their machines
as entertainment portals for games, music and films to combat
the flow of players downloading free or cheap titles by  Voltage
Inc.  and  Nexon Co. (3659)  for smartphones and tablet computers.  “Mobile is having a huge impact on the market and on these
game shows,” said Ben Bajarin, an analyst with Creative
Strategies Inc., a technology consulting firm in San Jose,
California. “There will be so much competition for consumer
dollars over the holidays that you just can’t bet that the
console is going to be the big holiday purchase.”  ‘Grand Theft’  Console makers including  Nintendo Co. (7974)  aren’t the only ones
counting on the new generation of devices. Software companies,
whose titles take years to develop and typically sell for more
than $50 apiece, need the hardware to drive demand.  Square Enix Holdings Co., maker of the “Final Fantasy”
series, and Electronics Arts Inc., developer of the “Madden
NFL” games, will join  Sega Sammy Holdings Inc. (6460)  and  Capcom Co. (9697) 
in taking booths. Nintendo, creator of the Mario and Zelda
franchises whose Wii U console has had disappointing sales, is
skipping the event.  Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO) , maker of “Grand Theft
Auto V” released yesterday, isn’t attending. The game,
featuring gangsters swimming with sharks, is forecast to
generate $1 billion in sales in one month, four times the amount
spent to make it.  The game is built for the older  Xbox 360  and PS3 machines,
and Take-Two hasn’t announced plans for the new consoles.  ‘Angry Birds’  Consoles have struggled to win over casual players
preferring to use  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s website and mobile devices.
Rovio Entertainment Oy’s “Angry Birds” has been downloaded
almost 2 billion times and delivered $199 million in sales of
games and merchandise last year.  U.S. retail sales of new video-game software fell 15
percent to $2.15 billion in the first half, to make up 33
percent of  consumer spending  on games, according to researcher
NPD Group. Digital-format sales, including online subscriptions
and downloads, mobile and social titles, rose 10 percent.  “The market is shrinking because the items to kill time
have become diversified,” said  Mitsushige Akino , chief  fund
manager  at Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “PS4 and
Xbox One are not for light users.”  The Tokyo show has areas devoted to romance-simulation
games such as Voltage’s “Kiss of Revenge,” smartphones, social
networks, independent developers and “Asia new stars” from
Vietnam, Singapore, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia and the
Philippines.  Tokyo-based Sony, which has the  largest  exhibition space,
will be one of two  keynote presenters , showcasing the PS4 and
exclusive titles. Masaki Tsukakoshi, a spokesman for Sony
Computer Entertainment, declined to comment beyond saying the
company has the same-sized booth as last year.  Hirai’s Plan  The other will be  GungHo Online Entertainment Inc. (3765) , maker
of the “Puzzle & Dragons” mobile game whose market value
briefly overtook Nintendo’s in May. GungHo’s elevation is a sign
for “how the industry has changed,” David Gibson, an analyst
at Macquarie Group Ltd., said in a Sept. 12 report.  Sony priced the PS4 in the U.S. at $399 -- $100 cheaper
than the Xbox One -- when it goes on sale Nov. 15. Customers in
Japan will have to wait until Feb. 22. Sony will be showing 50
games this week compared with about 30 for Microsoft, according
to Macquarie’s Gibson.  The console has reported orders of more than 1 million
units and is a central element of Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai ’s plan to revive Sony. The company has set a goal of being
No. 1 in game consoles in the U.S., the biggest chunk of the $63
billion global market as estimated by DFC Intelligence.  Microsoft Returns  After skipping the Tokyo show last year, Microsoft returns
to try to crack a market dominated by Sony and Kyoto-based
Nintendo. Microsoft, the top U.S. seller of consoles for more
than two years, plans to release the Xbox One in the U.S. on
Nov. 22 while it will go on sale in Japan in 2014.  Global orders for the new console are ahead of the Xbox
360, Phil Spencer, corporate vice president at Microsoft
Studios, said in an interview in Tokyo today.  The company will expand TV programming beyond a show based
on its best-selling “Halo” game as Microsoft attempts to
position the Xbox One as an entertainment portal and merge TV
watching with video game playing. Microsoft is teaming with
partners including the  National Football League  to offer
features such as viewing highlights and game scores.  “We believe sports is a very interesting category
globally,” Spencer said. “We’ll be expanding what we do in
sports to bring more international sports into the mix. ”  The PS4 and Xbox One are each projected to sell 3 million
units worldwide this year, according to  Michael Olson , an
analyst with Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis. By comparison,
smartphone sales in the second quarter alone totaled 229.6
million, according to researcher  Strategy Analytics .  Console sales are expected to jump 11 percent to 68.6
million units next year on the PS4 and Xbox One, according to
market researcher IDC. That compares with 89.4 million units in
2010.  “It could be a turning point for the industry and there
may be a chance for console makers,” said Tomoaki Kawasaki, an
analyst at  Iwai Cosmo Holdings Inc. (8707)  in Tokyo. “There’s a
possibility of regaining light users if they can produce amusing
games that may develop into social phenomena.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  