-- South Africa’s Motlanthe Says Union May Yet Strike Over Gold Pay
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y ,   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-09-17T15:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/south-africa-s-motlanthe-says-union-may-yet-strike-over-gold-pay.html
South African unions may hold
authorized strikes at mines where they are the majority labor
group despite agreeing to an industry-wide pay increase, Deputy
President  Kgalema Motlanthe  said.  Gold companies this month reached a wage pact with all
 labor organizations  except for the Association of Mineworkers
and Construction Union, which represents 19 percent of miners. A
strike by AMCU members would be unauthorized because most have
agreed to the deal, the Chamber of Mines, which represents
bullion producers, said Sept. 11. AMCU speaks on behalf of the
majority of workers at  Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL) ,  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) 
and  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR) ’s biggest sites.  “What would have normally applied across the board can’t
apply to them without their consent at that mine because they’re
the majority union,” Motlanthe said in an interview in London
today, referring to the AMCU. “It would be a legal strike.”  In  South Africa , the world’s sixth-biggest producer of the
metal, an unauthorized strike is deemed to breach labor rules,
leaving workers vulnerable to possible dismissal. The union has
called for a wage increase to 12,500 rand ($1,270) a month for
entry-level workers. Those employees currently receive 5,400
rand a month following the 8 percent gain agreed to by the
 National Union of Mineworkers , Solidarity and UASA earlier this
month. The NUM represents 63 percent of gold-mining employees.  The AMCU has a “recognition agreement that they are the
majority union at that particular mine so they’ve got to
negotiate with that mine outside of the chamber,” Motlanthe
said.  Majority Representative  The union, founded by expelled NUM member Joseph Mathunjwa,
represents 73 percent of workers at Harmony’s Kusasalethu, 65
percent at Sibanye’s Driefontein and the majority at AngloGold’s
Mponeng.  The chamber will hold “no further negotiations about
wages,” Chief Negotiator Elize Strydom said Sept. 11.  Sibanye on Sept. 12 said it will pay a maiden interim
 dividend  of 0.37 rand a share, having delayed declaration until
wage talks had been concluded.  “The labor legislation provides for the agreement to be
applied to all union members within the bargaining unit,”
Charmane Russell, a spokeswoman for the chamber, said by phone
today. “Should a strike notice be received, employers would
seek to get an interdict which would make that strike
unprotected,” she said, referring to a court order.  The chamber has received legal counsel and is “confident”
of its interpretation of the law, she said.  Strong Case  The AMCU has a strong case, said John Brand, a labor lawyer
at Johannesburg-based  Bowman Gilfillan Inc.   “I don’t think it is possible to make the agreement
binding on the industry as a whole,” he said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “There’s a stronger argument to say the
different locations are separate workplaces.”  The AMCU is the biggest representative of workers at Anglo
American Platinum Ltd., Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. and Lonmin
Plc, the world’s three largest producers of the metal.  “We haven’t taken a decision” on a strike, AMCU President
Joseph Mathunjwa said by phone. Labor action should be
authorized, he said. A strike would be a “last resort,” he
said on Sept. 5.  The AMCU’s demand that entry-level workers’ wages be more
than doubled compares with an  annual inflation rate  of 6.3
percent in July.  The union would be authorized to strike, Andrew Levy, who
heads is own labor-research company in Johannesburg, said by e-mail today.  AngloGold, the world’s third-biggest producer of the metal,
along with Harmony and Gold Fields posted a second-quarter loss
as bullion dropped a record 36 percent in that period.  “High wages ought to be a function of high productivity,”
Motlanthe said. “What’s the point of killing the goose that
lays the golden egg, so to speak. You wouldn’t want to smother
these companies out of existence, it defeats the purpose. We
don’t see it as a sunset industry, we think there is a future
for gold mining.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in  London  at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  