-- Starwood Said to Plan to Buy Waypoint Homes Management
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2013-09-18T00:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/starwood-property-said-to-plan-to-buy-waypoint-management.html
Starwood Capital Group, a real
estate firm led by Barry Sternlicht, is planning to buy the
management unit of Waypoint Homes Inc. as part of a single-family rental business expansion, according to three people with
knowledge of the deal.  The purchase will include only the management unit of
Oakland, California-based Waypoint and not the company’s homes,
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the agreement is private. Waypoint’s management will operate
Starwood’s housing-rental business, the people said.  Starwood Property Trust Inc. (STWD) , a real estate investment
trust managed by an affiliate of Sternlicht’s Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Starwood Capital, said in a regulatory filing
last week that a letter of intent was signed for the acquisition
of an outside manager following a potential spinoff of single-family properties into a new REIT. Starwood Property has spent
$358 million to buy 4,329 homes, and owns 1,551 nonperforming
home loans with a face value of $408.3 million that may be a
source of more rental properties for the spinoff, according to
the filing, which didn’t identify the manager.  Waypoint, which owns more than 4,500 homes, was founded in
2009 as one of the first large-scale single-family rental
operators. It has struggled to raise capital to buy more
properties this year. It  filed  in May for an initial public
offering, then delayed the stock sale. The shares of other
single-family REITs have fallen from their IPO prices.  Waypoint Chief Executive Officer Gary Beasley declined to
comment, citing restrictions under the company’s IPO filing.
Boyd Fellows, Starwood Property’s president, also declined to
comment on the purchase.  Industry Consolidation  Private-equity firms, hedge funds and REITs have raised
about $20 billion to purchase as many as 200,000 homes to rent,
creating a new institutional real estate asset class in what has
been a historically mom-and-pop business, according to Jade Rahmani, a Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. analyst.  “We expect the large single-family rental companies to
experience growth over the next 12 to 24 months with
introduction of leverage and consolidation of smaller players as
potential drivers,” Rahmani said in a Sept. 10 report.  Investors began buying rental houses in bulk after values
fell as much as 35 percent from their 2006 peak. Demand for
rentals has risen among people who lost their homes to
foreclosure or can’t qualify for a mortgage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  