-- Stemcor India Head Stock Sent on Leave Following Buyout Attempt
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-09-17T05:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/stemcor-india-head-stock-sent-on-leave-following-buyout-attempt.html
Stemcor Holdings Ltd., seeking to
sell its Indian  iron ore  mine and pellet plant to repay about
$1.2 billion of debt, removed the managing director of the local
unit after he sought to buy the assets.  Bill Attenborough replaced Matthew Stock, who was given
leave along with “other members” of the management in  India ,
spokesman  Charles Armitstead  said in an e-mail statement. The
London-based trader, which is being wooed by India’s biggest
steelmakers for its local assets, rejected a unilateral buyout
offer from Stock and Director Vineet Mehra, calling for open
bids last month.  Removing the head of the Indian operations may help Stemcor
ensure a transparent sale process and get a higher price. Curbs
on mining in the last three years and government delays in
obtaining permits have prompted India’s steelmakers to seek
control of existing raw material sources.  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) ,
Jindal Steel and Power Ltd. and  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL)  have all said
they will bid for Stemcor’s assets.  “The managers have more information about the asset and
perhaps wield more influence on the owner,” said Prasad Baji, a
metals analyst at Edelweiss Financial Services Ltd. in Mumbai.
“That’s a tricky situation for the other bidders.”  Stock and Mehra declined to comment, citing confidentiality
agreements signed with Stemcor.  India Units  Closely held Stemcor owns the mine and the pellet plant
through units Aryan Mining & Trading Corp. and Brahmani River
Pellets Ltd., according to a company presentation. Stemcor also
owns a slurry pipeline connecting the mine to the factory.  “The scramble for Stemcor is because of its iron ore
mines,” said Giriraj Daga, an analyst at Mumbai-based Nirmal
Bang Equities Pvt. “The iron ore mine and the pellet plant
together should fetch a fair valuation of $1.3 billion.”  The mine, situated in the eastern state of Odisha, can
produce 5 million metric tons of iron ore a year, while the
pellet plant has an annual capacity of 4 million tons. The plant,
which can turn low-grade iron ore fines into chunks for use in
blast furnaces, is the added attraction, said Gunjan Aggarwal,
an analyst at commodities consulting firm  CRU Group .  ‘Next Door’  Tata Steel, India’s biggest mill, has expressed interest in
Stemcor’s assets because its mine is “next door” to a 6
million-ton plant Tata is building in Odisha, Chief Financial
Officer Koushik Chatterjee said Aug. 14. Jindal Steel, which
started its 2.5 million ton mill in Odisha last month, would bid
for Stemcor’s assets, Managing Director Ravi Uppal said Aug. 5.
The company has deferred expansion plans at Odisha because of a
lack of raw material.  Production at JSW’s biggest mill in Karnataka state fell to
as low as 30 percent of capacity two years ago after India’s top
court imposed mining restrictions in the southern state for
environmental breaches. The Mumbai-based company has since
increased factory use to 85 percent using low-grade ore, Chief
Financial Officer Seshagiri Rao said Sept. 4.  Stemcor failed to repay an $850 million  credit line  earlier
this year because of waning sales and demand for steel. The
company appointed Zolfo Cooper LLP’s Simon Freakley as its chief
restructuring officer and appointed Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
sell its mining assets in India. The company signed a 100-day
standstill pact with lenders, it said June 20. Under the accord,
lenders agree not to demand repayment of the loan for a certain
period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  