-- Stevens to Bear Abbott Stimulus Burden in Slowing Australia
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-09-18T02:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/stevens-to-bear-abbott-s-stimulus-burden-in-slowing-australia.html
Australia  today saw the swearing in
of its 28th prime minister, with  Tony Abbott  pledging to rein in
spending even as the growth outlook weakens -- stepping up
challenges for  Glenn Stevens , who begins his final term as
central bank governor with the cash rate at a record low.  The divergence of monetary and fiscal policy in the world’s
12th largest economy raises the risk of tension between Abbott,
55, and Stevens, 55, who was reappointed by the previous
administration. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has to contend
with the danger of distorting asset prices from any extension of
a policy easing cycle already two years long.  “Stevens is trying to steer a path between avoiding asset
bubbles, particularly in the real estate sector, and keeping the
Australian dollar from going too high,” said Martin Whetton, an
interest-rate strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney.
“He’s also reaching a point where on perceived wisdom, he’s
very close to the terminal rate of policy.”  Stevens yesterday said 2.25 percentage points of reductions
to a record low 2.5 percent are already providing “a
substantial degree of policy stimulus.” Abbott has pledged to
terminate 12,000 civil service positions and is targeting a
budget surplus of 1 percent of gross domestic product in a
decade.  The governor proved hawkish in his first term at the helm
of the RBA, raising the benchmark to a 13-year high in March
2008 even as credit markets began seizing. After reducing
borrowing costs to a half-century low in 2009 as much of the
developed world entered recession, he began raising again later
that year as government stimulus kept Australia growing and
sparked a surge in  home prices .  Policy Lag  The RBA’s easing since November 2011 -- designed to offset
the drag from declining mining investment and dampen the
currency’s strength -- is “most evident in the housing
market,” Stevens said yesterday in minutes of the RBA board’s
Sept. 3 meeting, where the cash rate was kept unchanged just
four days ahead of the election.  “We’re in one of the higher-than-average periods at the
moment” for  house prices , RBA Assistant Governor Malcolm Edey
told a forum in Sydney today. “But we shouldn’t be rushing to
reach for the bubble terminology every time the rate of increase
in house prices is higher than average because by definition
that’s 50 percent of the time, and you’re just going to be
unrealistically alarmist by making that call every time that
happens.”  Abbott and Stevens will have a new Treasury bureaucrat to
work with next year. Martin Parkinson,  secretary  to the
department since March 2011, will stand down in the middle of
2014, Abbott’s office said in an emailed statement. The
secretary to the Treasury sits on the RBA’s nine-person  board .  Budget Emergency  Abbott’s coalition warned before the Sept. 7 election that
Australia faces a budget emergency. Treasury said in its pre-election outlook released Aug. 13 that the federal deficit will
widen to A$30.1 billion ($28.2 billion) this fiscal year that
ends June 30, 2014, and is no longer projected to return to
balance in 2015-16.  “There is a very serious deterioration in our budgetary
situation,” Abbott told reporters in Canberra two days ago in
his first press conference since winning office. “Nevertheless,
I want to stress that we will bring the budget back into surplus
as quickly as we responsibly can, consistent with the election
commitments that we’ve given.”  That task will be complicated as the coalition aims to meet
its pledges to abolish Labor’s carbon and mining levies and
lower the business-tax rate while funding a A$5.5 billion per
year maternity-leave program. To help make savings, Abbott also
plans to lower subsidies for automakers, cancel handouts to
parents of school children and slash foreign aid.  Further Stimulus  With Abbott politically wedded to spending restraint, it
will likely fall on Stevens to provide further stimulus in the
event growth declines sharply and threatens recession.  “I don’t see Abbott committing to stimulus,” said Alvin Pontoh, a Singapore-based strategist at TD Securities. “So it
will be up to the RBA to keep monetary policy loose for the
foreseeable future to help the economy negotiate the transition
from mining.”  Stevens and the new government will discuss  monetary policy 
in the near future. After the past two elections, the government
and central bank signed a statement on the conduct of monetary
policy. Australia’s central bank makes rates decisions
independently from the government.  Aussie Rebound  The central bank loosened policy to help rebalance growth
from mining regions in the north and west as investment wanes
toward services and manufacturers in the south and east. The
RBA’s efforts had been aided by a decline in the currency
between April and August. The Aussie has rebounded 5 percent
this month as concerns eased about the impact of  Federal Reserve 
tapering of bond purchases that had devalued the  U.S. dollar .  “The recent lift in the Australian dollar over the past
few weeks puts the RBA in a Catch-22 scenario,” said Janu Chan,
an economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “In part, the
Australian dollar has lifted due to rising expectations the RBA
is done cutting rates. However, a high Australian dollar will
keep the door open for another rate cut, because a stronger
currency tightens financial conditions.”  The prospect of the coalition’s election victory boosted
confidence that had remained subdued for much of the Labor
government’s time in office.  Greater Confidence  Household sentiment  jumped 4.7 percent this month to 110.6,
the highest level since December 2010, a private survey showed
Sept. 11.  Consumer confidence  had averaged 101.5 points under
the almost six years of Labor rule.  Business confidence  surged to 6 from minus 3 in August, a
separate private report released a day earlier showed, as
confidence increased in all industries. It averaged 0.5 point
under Labor.  “You wouldn’t believe the nature of the change in the
conversations we’ve had with companies over the last two weeks,
over how confidence is coming back,” Dion Hershan, head of
Australian equities at Goldman Sachs Asset Management Ltd., told
reporters today at a Melbourne briefing. “That’s not to say
it’s all going to be smooth sailing, but I think you can draw a
clear link between stronger business confidence, business capex
outside of the resources sector and employment outside the
resources sector.”  Home Prices  Lower rates have spurred the  property market  in Sydney,
Australia’s biggest city, where house and apartment prices
climbed 7.4 percent in the eight months to Aug. 31, compared
with a national average of 5.1 percent, according to the RP
Data-Rismark Home Value Index. More than 85 percent of the homes
that went to auction in the city sold successfully in the first
weekend in September, the highest rate since 2008, according to
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)   “The east coast of Australia seems to be gathering a lot
of momentum at the moment,” said John McGrath, chief executive
officer of McGrath Estate Agents, who forecast in a Sept. 13
interview that prices could rise by between 5 percent and 10
percent in Sydney in the next year.  Still, traders are pricing in about a 30 percent chance the
RBA will lower borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to
a fresh record low of 2.25 percent by year-end, according to
 interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is going to be a challenging political economy for
the governor,” said  Peter Jolly , Sydney-based head of market
research for National Australia Bank Ltd. “If you take  interest
rates  to super-low levels and keep them there for a long time,
you can have big and unhelpful impacts on asset prices like
housing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  