-- Stocks Surge Past Economic Benefit on Tokyo Olympic Pick
-- B y   T o m   R e d m o n d   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-09-18T03:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/stocks-surge-past-economic-benefit-on-tokyo-olympic-pick.html
Japanese shares seen as benefiting
from the 2020 Olympics surged too far, too fast after Tokyo won
hosting rights, with the rally outweighing the estimated
economic impact, according to Shinkin Asset Management Co.  About 13 trillion yen ($131 billion) was  added  to the
market capitalization of the Topix index last week after the
city’s winning bid was announced, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. One-third to half the gains were from investors trading on
the Olympics news, Shinkin Asset said. The Tokyo Metropolitan
Government  projects  the event will boost  Japan ’s economy by 2.96
trillion yen in the next seven years.  “People were surprised Tokyo got it after reports  Madrid 
might win, so the reaction was big,” said  Naoki Fujiwara ,
Tokyo-based chief fund manager at Shinkin Asset, which oversees
about $6 billion. “Investors bought shares without thinking of
how much impact the games would have on companies’ profits.”  The Topix climbed 3.7 percent in the two days after Tokyo’s
selection. Shares had fallen on Sept. 6 after Spanish newspaper
El Mundo said Madrid was set to win the hosting rights.  Gauges (TPX)  tracking builders, developers, service industries,
airlines, logistics stocks, steelmakers, machinery companies and
cement producers listed on the Topix added a combined 4.9
trillion yen in market value last week, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s about 37 percent of the total increase.  Construction Companies  Construction companies  advanced  the most, with building
contractor  Taisei Corp. (1801)  soaring 24 percent. The company expects
sales to rise to 1.5 trillion yen in the year to March 2016, a
10 percent increase from the current fiscal year, the Nikkei
newspaper reported Sept. 12, citing President Takashi Yamauchi.  “The Games are still seven years away and it’ll be a long
time before there is any actual effect on infrastructure
development or tourism,” Koichi Kurose, chief economist in
Tokyo at Japanese lender Resona Bank Ltd., said Sept. 11.
“After the initial exuberant reaction, it wouldn’t be strange
for stocks to take a breather.”  Taisei and Kajima Corp., another building contractor, were
among the 13 decliners on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average today.
Taisei dropped 2.2 percent to 488 yen as of 12:35 p.m. in Tokyo
after surging 24 percent last week. Kajima slid 0.7 percent to
401 yen after jumping 13 percent in the same period.  The Topix climbed 37 percent this year, the most among
developed markets, amid optimism Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and
the  Bank of Japan  can lead the country out of deflation through
unprecedented monetary easing.  Consumer Sentiment  While estimates for the direct Olympics economic payoff
don’t justify last week’s rally, investors are betting that the
Games will also improve consumer sentiment and have longer-term
benefits for industries such as tourism, Shinkin Asset’s
Fujiwara said.  UBS AG projects a direct effect of 3 trillion yen from the
Games and an additional benefit of 10 trillion yen to 23
trillion yen from infrastructure upgrades under Abe’s reform
programs and for the Olympics, as well as from private-sector
investment, analyst Toru Ibayashi wrote in a Sept. 9 report.  Tokyo is planning its biggest housing project in 42 years
to lodge athletes. The 95.4 billion yen Olympic Village complex
would occupy a 44-hectare (109-acre) parcel of land next to
 Tokyo  Bay and would be financed by developers, Kenichi Kimura,
who is in charge of the finances for the city’s bid at the Tokyo
Metropolitan Government, said in an interview in July.
Separately, the government plans to spend 153.8 billion yen for
new construction and renovations at 11 sites, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Redmond in Tokyo at 
 tredmond3@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  