-- Subprime Auto Loans Get Larger as Competition Grows, S&P Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-09-17T18:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/subprime-auto-loans-get-larger-as-competition-grows-s-p-says.html
Subprime auto lenders are enabling
buyers to borrow more relative to the cost of a  car  in a sign
that underwriting standards are deteriorating amid increased
competition, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  The average loan-to-value ratio, or LTV, on vehicle sales
to consumers with spotty credit has risen to 114.5 percent this
year from about 112 percent in 2010, S&P said in a report
yesterday. That compares with a peak of 121 percent in 2008,
according to the New York-based rating company.  “We’re expecting continued weakening in credit standards
as more players vie for a piece of the subprime auto loan market
and others try to hold on to market share,” wrote the analysts
led by Amy Martin.  The segment has boomed since 2010 as high margins and low
funding costs attract private-equity firms such as Blackstone
Group LP. After drying up during the credit crisis, originations
of  car loans  to borrowers with bad credit have almost doubled
since the fourth quarter of 2009 to reach $18.4 billion during
the same period in 2012, Citigroup Inc. analysts led by Mary Kane in New York said in a Sept. 6 report.  Higher LTV ratios typically lead to lower recovery values
when a vehicle is repossessed in the event of default, according
to S&P. Additionally, borrowers are less likely to stay current
if they owe more than the car is worth, the rating firm said.  Originations Increase  The increase in subprime originations is fueling growth in
the asset-backed  bond market , with sales of securities linked to
the debt surging 24.4 percent to $14.7 billion through August
compared with the same period in 2012, according to Deutsche
Bank AG data.  While loans are becoming more aggressive, most asset-backed
deals are still insulated from losses, according to S&P. Madrid-based lender  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s U.S. consumer unit and GM
Financial Inc. together account for 75 percent of 2012 asset-backed issuance in the segment. These financial institutions are
reporting lower losses on deals from 2010 and later, compared
with offerings sold from 2007 through 2009, the report said.  Some smaller issuers are showing losses that are higher
than S&P expected even as larger companies perform as projected,
according to the ratings company. Blackstone’s Exeter Financial
Corp. has struggled to maintain infrastructure to support growth
in origination volumes, which the company is working to address,
leading to higher delinquency rates, S&P said. As of March, late
payments were at 7.8 percent from 5 percent a year earlier,
according to the report.  S&P doesn’t expect to cut the ratings on asset-backed bonds
linked to subprime auto loans. Even when losses exceed
expectations, including during the recession that ended in 2009,
investor protections built into the deals have been sufficient
to maintain rankings, the credit grader said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  