-- Syria Blames Turkey for Tension After Helicopter Downed
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-09-17T12:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/syria-blames-turkey-for-tension-as-helicopter-shot-down.html
(Corrects premier’s name in fourth paragraph. See EXTRA
for more on the Syrian conflict.)  Syria ’s military accused Turkish
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of stoking border tensions
after a Syrian helicopter was shot down close to their border.  The Mi-17 strayed into Turkish airspace and was on a flight
path back when it came under attack, the Syrian armed forces
said on the state-run Sana news agency. The incident was the
most direct confrontation between the two sides since Syria shot
down a Turkish F-4 jet in June 2012, saying it encroached on its
airspace.  Syria’s civil war has spilled over into neighboring
countries, sparking deadly sectarian violence in Lebanon and
sporadic skirmishes along the Turkish and Israeli borders. The
prospect of wider regional conflict spurred by a possible U.S.
strike to punish the government for using chemical weapons has
roiled financial markets. The Turkish lira weakened against
dollar yesterday following the incident and extended its decline
today to 2.0091 a dollar at 2:45 p.m. in Istanbul after the
central bank kept its main interest rates unchanged.  “The hasty reaction by the Turkish side, especially that
the helicopter was on its way back and wasn’t assigned any
combat missions shows the true intentions of Erdogan’s
government,” the Syrian armed forces said.  Car Bomb  Relations between Erdogan and Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, leaders who once vacationed together, have worsened since
the Syrian crisis broke out in 2011, with the two accusing each
other of stoking instability.  Turkey  hosts opposition groups and
backs rebels fighting to end Assad’s rule. Turkish authorities
blamed Turks with ties to Syrian intelligence for a car bomb
attack that killed 46 people in a border area this year.  Ersat Hurmuzlu, adviser to Turkish President Abdullah Gul,
said in a televised interview that rules of engagement were
changed after last year’s shooting of the Turkish jet. The
Syrian helicopter entered Turkish air space at 2:25 p.m. local
time and was engaged by a jet two minutes later, the Turkish
military said.  A YouTube video sent by the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory
for Human Rights today showed anti-Assad fighters pointing to
the body of what they said was a pilot. “God is Great! Your day
is coming, Oh Bashar!” the video shows one man shouting. Others
fired celebratory shots in the air.  The military crackdown on what began as a peaceful uprising
against his government has isolated Assad in the Middle East,
turning friends like Erdogan into foes and deepening rifts with
oil-rich nations such as Saudi Arabia.  Weapons Deal  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry met his Turkish and
Saudi counterparts yesterday in Paris as he sought to line up
support for a Sept. 14 agreement with Russia to eliminate
Assad’s chemical weapons by mid-2014. Under the accord, reached
in Geneva, Assad has a week to submit a list of his inventory of
toxic arms.  While Turkey said the accord, which averted a U.S. strike
against Assad, was a positive step toward ridding the region of
unconventional weapons, it said the timeframe “is lengthy and
susceptible to the exploitation of the regime,” according to a
foreign ministry statement. Gulf Arab countries, including Saudi
Arabia, have said the deal wasn’t enough to rein Assad in.  U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague said today his country
is prepared to provide experts to help oversee the elimination
of Assad’s arsenal. Opponents of the Syrian leader accuse his
forces of using the nerve agent sarin on Aug. 21, killing more
than 1,400 people, a charge his government denies. A United
Nations report released yesterday confirmed the use of chemical
weapons without naming the perpetrators.  No Troops  Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, whose government is
Assad’s strongest ally, called today for an “impartial,
objective and professional” inquiry into the attack.  “We have the most serious grounds to consider it a
provocation,” he told reporters after talks with French Foreign
Minister Laurent Fabius in Moscow. “Some of our partners said
dictatorially that only the regime could use such weapons, but
the truth must be established.”  The receding prospect of Western military intervention
helped push oil prices down for a third day. The West Texas
Intermediate crude for October delivery declined as much as $1
to $105.59 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange.  The accord in Geneva, however, won’t deter the U.S. and its
allies from pursuing an end to Assad’s rule, Kerry, Hague and
Fabius said yesterday in Paris. To achieve this, the Obama
administration should help enforce a no-fly zone over the Arab
country, said Salim Idris, commander of the U.S.-backed Free
Syrian Army.  “They can help us doing strikes using long distance
rockets using air force and not to directly send fighters to the
ground,” Idris said in an interview with PBS’s NewsHour,
according to an e-mailed copy of his remarks. He said the FSA
was receiving “many kinds of support from our American friends
but I can’t talk in the media about military support.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  