-- U.A.E. Lender Group Says Central Bank Backs Mortgage Limits
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-09-17T07:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/u-a-e-lender-group-says-central-bank-backs-mortgage-limits.html
The United Arab Emirates central
bank is “comfortable” with mortgage lending ratios proposed by
lenders and expects to issue new regulations before the end of
the year, the chairman of the UAE Banks Federation said today.  There’s “general agreement” banks should lend U.A.E
nationals as much as 80 percent of the value of their homes and
expatriates 75 percent, federation head Abdul Aziz Al Ghurair
said in Dubai. The regulator on Dec. 30 had issued a notice
saying loans to expats, which make up the majority of country’s
population, should be limited to 50 percent of a house’s value.  The central bank is seeking to protect bank’s balance
sheets and avoid a repeat of the property market crash which
caused prices to lose more than half their value after the
financial crisis. Dubai home prices jumped 21.7 percent in the
second-quarter from a year earlier, beating  Hong Kong  for the
fastest pace in the world, Knight Frank LLP said on Sept. 9.  “We don’t want to see a spike in property prices,” said
Al Ghurair, who is also chief executive officer of Mashreqbank
PSC. “Whatever goes up fast can come down fast.”  Under the new rules, banks won’t be able to finance third
homes bought by expatriates and mortgages would be limited to
the equivalent of seven year’s salary or total income for an
expatriate and eight years income for a citizen, Al Ghurair told
reporters last week. Income would exclude end-of-service
benefits which are paid by companies to employees.  Calls to the central bank weren’t immediately returned.  Expatriates  Expatriates make up more than 80 percent of the population
of the U.A.E., which includes Dubai and  Abu Dhabi , according to
government estimates. Dubai first allowed foreigners to own real
estate in 2002, sparking a boom that attracted investors from
 India ,  Iran ,  Pakistan  and  Russia . Dubai’s real estate market
crashed during the financial crisis and many lost their jobs and
left the city, defaulting on payments.  The central bank also expects to release revised limits for
bank’s exposure to government-related debt in the next two
months, Al Ghurair said. The U.A.E. central bank said April 2012
that banks must not lend more than 100 percent of their capital
to local governments and the same amount to government-related
entities to help reduce risk. There was no limit under previous
rules. The proposed limits will “have slight changes
downwards,” Al Ghurair said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  