-- U.S. Court Upholds NSA Phone-Records Spying in Ruling
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-09-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/u-s-court-upholds-nsa-phone-records-spying-in-ruling.html
The National Security Agency’s
collection of phone records complies with the Constitution, and
the government has shown it’s necessary to efforts to prevent
terrorism, a U.S. court said in an  opinion  released yesterday.  Members of Congress were notified or given the opportunity
to be notified about the intelligence-gathering and they
reauthorized the USA Patriot Act section that allows it,
according to the opinion by a judge on the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court, which oversees NSA’s surveillance programs.  The ruling also said that no telephone company has
challenged the government’s authority to collect the records.  The court released the July opinion by U.S. District Court
Judge Claire Eagan, who serves on the secret court. The judge
wrote that she was requesting that her opinion be released
“because of the public interest in this matter.”  The program was disclosed by former U.S. government
contractor Edward Snowden, who fled to  Russia , where he has
temporary asylum. The NSA collects bulk phone records, such as
numbers and call durations, under a USA Patriot Act provision
that lets the government compel U.S. companies to turn over
“any tangible thing” that is relevant to a terrorism probe.  Eagan wrote that because “it is necessary to obtain the
bulk collection of a telephone company’s metadata to determine
those connections between known and unknown international
terrorist operatives,” the government has shown that the
program doesn’t violate the Constitution’s Fourth Amendment
protection against unreasonable searches and seizures.  National Security  The government’s interest in acquiring information “when
it is attempting to thwart attacks and disrupt activities that
could harm national security” is greater than when it is
investigating domestic crimes, the judge wrote.  Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said in a
statement that the release of the previously classified opinion
“is consistent with the president’s call for more transparency
on these valuable intelligence programs.”  Nate Cardozo, an attorney with the  Electronic Frontier
Foundation , a San Francisco-based privacy group that has sued
the government to stop the program, said the court order is
flawed because it assumes that all lawmakers were given the
opportunity to learn the NSA was collecting and storing phone
records in bulk.  The opinion “hangs its hat on the fact that Congress
approved the program and that’s, as a matter of fact, not
true,” Cardozo said in an interview.  “This is a single judge only hearing one side of the
argument,” Cardozo said. “Now we know for certain that no
telecom has ever stood up for the rights of its users.”  Cardozo said the court also is wrong to conclude that phone
customers don’t have a reasonable right to privacy when it comes
to their records.  Eagan’s order reauthorizes the program until Oct. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  