-- U.S., Russia Must Forge Syria Peace Deal, UN Envoy Brahimi Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-09-17T07:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/u-s-russia-must-forge-syria-peace-deal-un-envoy-brahimi-says.html
The U.S. and  Russia  will have to
take the lead in forging a peace deal for  Syria  because the
opposing sides in the conflict refuse to negotiate, United
Nations envoy Lakhdar Brahimi said.  Neither the Syrian government, nor the opposition, nor
regional powers such as  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar that support the
rebels, are ready for dialogue, Brahimi said in an interview
with Russia’s Arabic-language state channel RT posted late
yesterday on its website. Russia, the U.S. and the UN must
assume this responsibility, he said.  “The best solution is for the Syrians to meet with each
other as they don’t need anyone to solve their problem, but
unfortunately this was not possible, and the countries of the
region also unfortunately were not able to play this brotherly
role,” Brahimi said. “Therefore it must start from the outer
circle.”  Russia and the U.S. reached an agreement last week in
Geneva to destroy Syria’s chemical weapons, averting an American
military strike in retaliation for a chemical attack allegedly
by Syrian government forces on Aug. 21. A UN report yesterday
confirmed the use of the nerve gas Sarin in Syria. It didn’t
have the mandate to determine who was responsible.  The two former Cold War foes said they hoped to use the
deal to revive a stalled  peace process  to end fighting that’s
killed more than 100,000 people in the past 2 1/2 years.  Conference Date  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  and his Russian
counterpart  Sergei Lavrov  will meet this month with Brahimi
during the UN General Assembly to set a date for a conference.
While President Bashar al-Assad has agreed to take part, his
opponents insist he step down as a condition for negotiations.  Lavrov said yesterday that the time had perhaps come to
“force the Syrian opposition to take part in the conference,”
known as Geneva 2, because of their refusal to do so.  The UN and other key players “will play the supporting
role for the Syrian parties to draft an agenda and for them to
discuss among themselves until they reach the desired
solution,” Brahimi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  