-- U.S. Insurance Regulators Oppose Federal Oversight
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-17T19:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/u-s-insurance-regulators-oppose-federal-oversight.html
U.S. insurance regulators are
drawing on the country’s founding principles as they resist
international pressure to give the federal government a greater
role in overseeing the industry.  Ben Nelson, chief executive officer of the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners and a former Democratic
senator from  Nebraska , said the current system of overseeing
insurers at the state level exemplifies Thomas Jefferson’s ideas
about restraints on centralized government. A Financial
Stability Board review of U.S. insurance regulation has called
for greater uniformity of oversight.  “There is, I think, a philosophical difference about
government here,” Nelson, 72, said today in an interview at
Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. “We come from the
Jeffersonian idea of the states.”  Jefferson, the third U.S. president, advocated for limited
federal-government power. The U.S. needs consistent insurance
supervision and the federal government should play an increased
role, the FSB said in an Aug. 27  report . The FSB, established in
2009, is led by Bank of England Governor Mark Carney and works
to improve financial oversight.  “Given the drawbacks of the current regulatory setup, U.S.
authorities should carefully consider and provide
recommendations to Congress as to whether migration towards a
more federal and streamlined structure may be a more effective
means of achieving greater regulatory uniformity,” according to
the FSB report.  Dodd-Frank  The federal role in insurance regulation is already
expanding under the Dodd-Frank law. The Federal Reserve will
oversee insurers that are deemed systemically important by the
Financial Stability Oversight Council, which was created by
Dodd-Frank to prevent another financial crisis. U.S. insurers
are primarily overseen by state regulators.  Nelson said U.S. insurance regulations have become more
similar in areas that demand uniformity, while retaining some
variation to account for differences among states. Nelson was
hired this year as CEO of the group of insurance watchdogs to
help “defend our turf,” Jim Donelon, NAIC president and
Louisiana insurance commissioner, said in January.  “There is value in regulation that is closest to the
people, because New York is different than Nebraska,” Nelson
said today.  Supervision of insurers’ holding companies has improved
since the financial crisis, said Thomas Leonardi,  Connecticut ’s
insurance commissioner. Regulators are meeting in groups with
watchdogs from other states and countries to oversee large firms
that do business in many locations, he said.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , once the world’s largest
insurer, received a U.S. rescue that began in 2008 and swelled
to $182.3 billion after bets soured at a unit that wasn’t
overseen by state regulators.  The Office of Thrift Supervision, AIG’s primary federal
regulator prior to the crisis, said in 2009 that it “fell
short” and failed to recognize the risks of the firm’s credit-default swap portfolio. Most OTS functions have since been
assumed by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. New
York-based AIG repaid its rescue last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  