-- U.S. Net Inflow of Long-Term Securities Rises to $31.1 Billion
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-09-17T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/u-s-net-inflow-of-long-term-securities-rises-to-31-1-billion.html
Foreign investors were net buyers
of U.S. long-term portfolio assets in July as  China  and  Japan 
boosted their holdings of Treasuries.  The net long-term portfolio investment  inflow  was $31.1
billion after a revised $67 billion outflow in June, the
Treasury Department said in a statement today in  Washington . Net
purchasing of long-term Treasuries by private foreign investors
was $49.8 billion compared with selling of a net $40.1 billion
the prior month, the department said.  Including short-term securities such as Treasury bills and
stock swaps, the total cross-border  inflow  was $56.7 billion in
July, compared with a $19.7 billion outflow the previous month,
the report showed.  Official foreign investors were net sellers of $15.9
billion of Treasury notes and bonds in July, the report showed.  Official net purchases of U.S. agency debt were $20.1
billion after buying of $3.9 billion in June, the Treasury said.
Private investors were net sellers of corporate debt and
equities, the report showed.  The Treasury’s monthly report on the cross-border flow of
portfolio assets captures foreign buying and selling of U.S.
securities as well as American investors’ transactions abroad.
It also tracks holdings of Treasuries by countries.  China stayed the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries
in July as its holdings rose $1.5 billion to $1.28 trillion,
according to the Treasury. Japan, the second-largest holder,
increased its share by $52 billion to $1.14 trillion.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  gained 5 percent in July.
Investors in U.S. Treasuries  lost  0.2 percent that month,
according to Bloomberg World  Bond (BUSY)  Indexes. The Bloomberg U.S.
Dollar Index, a gauge of the greenback’s value against 10 major
currencies weighted by liquidity and trade flows, lost 1.4
percent in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  