-- UBS Wins Ruling Upholding Dismissal of Securities Suit
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-09-17T22:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/ubs-wins-ruling-upholding-dismissal-of-securities-suit.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , the largest Swiss bank, won
dismissal of a U.S. pension fund’s lawsuit claiming it made
misstatements and omissions in a $2.5 billion offering of
mortgage-backed securities in 2007.  The Pension Trust Fund for Operating Engineers failed to
sue Zurich-based UBS within the required one-year period after
it should have begun investigating underwriting problems in home
loans backing the securities, the U.S. Appeals Court in
Philadelphia ruled today.  The Operating Engineers first sued in federal court in New
Jersey on Feb. 22, 2010. The pension fund should have
investigated after a separate lawsuit was filed on Sept. 9,
2008, in  California  state court against UBS Securities LLC and
Countrywide Financial Corp. alleging false and misleading
statements in offerings, the appeals court said.  “A reasonably diligent plaintiff who had purchased
mortgage-backed securities from UBS Securities based on loans
that were largely originated by Countrywide would have noticed
that complaint,” the Third Circuit court ruled.  Countrywide originated 52 percent of the mortgages backing
the certificates and IndyMac Bancorp Inc. originated 40 percent,
according to the ruling. IndyMac failed in mid-2008 and
Countrywide was acquired by  Bank of America Corp . in 2008.  Since then,  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
has written down losses of more than $40 billion related to the
Countrywide acquisition. The U.S. sued Bank of America in August
over an $850 million mortgage bond deal  The pension fund, based in Alameda, California, bought
certificates with a face value of $5.1 million, according to the
ruling. The pension fund sought to proceed as a group, or class-action, lawsuit.  The case is Pension Trust Fund for Operating Engineers,
12-03454, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  