-- Hungary Recognizes Limits to Taxing Lenders, Premier Orban Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-09-17T11:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/hungary-recognizes-limits-to-taxing-lenders-premier-orban-says.html
Hungarian Premier Viktor Orban,
whose plan to aid foreign-currency mortgage holders threatens to
impose losses on banks, said there are limits to how much burden
a “well-functioning” financial industry can bear.  The strengthening of OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, is “important” as part of the government’s aim to
boost local ownership in the financial industry, Orban said in
Budapest today. Lenders will continue to pay a bank tax
exceeding the European average, he said.  “It’s good to know that we have our limits: there’s no
modern economy without a well-functioning banking industry,”
Orban said. “On the taxing of banks, we have to find the level
at which they squeal but still pay and open up the next day.”  Orban has relied on extraordinary taxes on the industry to
keep the budget deficit in check. Facing elections in 2014, he
is now pressuring banks to take on the cost of converting
foreign-currency mortgages into forint and reduce monthly
payments as he seeks to “eliminate” household foreign-currency
loans.  OTP shares rose 1.4 percent immediately after Orban’s
comments and traded up 0.1 percent from yesterday at 4,392
forint by 12:16 p.m. in Budapest. The forint fell 0.1 percent to
299.3 per euro.  Banks in Hungary lost $1.7 billion during a 2011 program
that allowed the early repayment of foreign-currency mortgages
at below-market exchange rates. Lenders reacted by pulling out
capital equal to 23 percent of gross domestic product and
cutting new credit. The government has given banks until Nov. 1
to work out a solution for borrowers.  Failed Initiatives  Orban is promising to help mortgage holders after earlier
initiatives failed to help almost half a million borrowers,
whose payments soared after forint plunged in the global
financial crisis. Hungarian households hold 1.81 trillion forint
($8.1 billion) in foreign-currency mortgages and an additional
1.68 trillion forint in home-equity loans denominated in
currencies other than the forint.  Today’s comments by Orban, who has pledged to avoid the
2011 “Blitzkrieg” against banks this time around, may signal
that the government may be ready to spread the cost of
converting foreign-currency mortgages over time, which would be
“market positive,” Timothy Ash, a London-based analyst at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in an e-mail today.  “The banking sector, and the market, will hope that
Orban’s banking-sector friendly commentary will now mark another
‘reset’ with banks, and particularly with foreign-owned banks,
and that the government will adopt a more moderate approach with
respect to the latest batch of proposals to resolve the FX loan
problem in Hungary,” Ash said.  One-Time Conversions  Hungary’s central bank agrees with commercial lenders that
the country should avoid the one-time conversion of foreign-currency mortgages to safeguard financial stability, Magyar
Nemzeti Bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy said on Sept. 11.  Central bank Vice President Adam Balog has proposed fixing
installments at below-market exchange rates and freeing
borrowers from the capital repayment of the difference with the
market rate. That would in effect eliminate the exchange-rate
risk for borrowers while spreading its cost over the maturity of
the mortgages.  OTP competes mostly with international banks including
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Intesa
SanPaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , which control
three-quarters of Hungary’s banking industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  