-- Uninsured Rate Falls as Baby Boomers Pile Into Medicare
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-09-17T16:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/uninsured-rate-falls-as-baby-boomers-pile-into-medicare.html
The share of Americans who get
health insurance through their jobs fell for the fourth straight
year as aging baby boomers piled into the U.S. government’s
Medicare plan and other adults sought coverage on their own.  Medicare enrollment rose to 48.9 million last year, a 2
million-person increase from 2011 that was greater than gains in
any other type of health plan, government or private, according
to a Census Bureau  report  released today. While 171 million
people still get coverage through employers, the share with
private plans fell to 54.9 percent, from 55.1 percent.  The slow decline in employer-based coverage began in 2001,
interrupted by a blip in 2008. That trend has the potential to
accelerate as core provisions of the 2010 Affordable Care Act
take effect that will create more accessible options for people
to select medical coverage.  The percentage of Americans without any coverage did fall
last year to 15.4 percent, or about 48 million people, from 15.7
percent in 2011, the Census Bureau said. The uninsured rate
peaked in 2010 at 16.3 percent, the year Congress passed the
Affordable Care Act, a law whose core provision was subsidized
insurance exchanges that begin enrollment Oct. 1.  “It really is a stark reminder of the importance of the
enrollment process for the Affordable Care Act that starts in
two weeks,”  Ron Pollack , executive director of the health
advocacy group Families USA, said in a telephone interview. “It
shows that we’ve got an enormous amount of work to do to make
sure that health coverage is available and affordable for many
tens of millions of people.”  The health law, which also will expand the state-run
Medicaid programs for the poor starting Jan. 1, is projected to
extend coverage to at least 25 million uninsured by 2016,
according to estimates from the  Congressional Budget Office .  The health data released today was part of a broader Census
Bureau report that presented a portrait of a stagnant economy
with poverty remaining high and incomes sluggish four years into
the recovery from the worst slump since the Great Depression.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  