-- Huntsman to Buy Rockwood Titanium Unit for $1.1 Billion
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 2013-09-17T20:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/huntsman-to-acquire-rockwood-s-tio2-business-for-1-1-billion.html
Huntsman Corp. (HUN)  agreed to buy
 Rockwood Holdings Inc. (ROC) ’s titanium-dioxide assets for $1.1
billion to create the world’s second-largest producer of the
white pigment, with plans to sell shares in the new business.  Huntsman also will take on $225 million in pension
obligations, the Salt Lake City-based company said today in a
statement. The deal is expected to close in the first half of
2014, subject to regulatory approvals, followed within two years
by an initial public offering of the combined titanium-dioxide
unit and other acquired assets, Huntsman said.  Huntsman is creating a business with 16 percent of the
market for titanium-dioxide, also known by its chemical formula
TiO2 and used as a whitener in paint and toothpaste. Shedding
TiO2 allows Rockwood to focus on its higher-value lithium
business, while Huntsman moving TiO2 to an independently traded
company shifts investor focus to better-performing businesses
such as polyurethanes, used in insulation and foam cushions.  “Huntsman will trade more in line with polyurethane
producers,” such as  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ,  BASF SE (BAS)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,
 Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based analyst at Alembic Global
Advisors who rates Huntsman the equivalent of a buy and doesn’t
rate Rockwood, said by phone today. “Clearly the market likes
it.”  Huntsman rose 1.9 percent to $19.50 at the close in New
York. Rockwood increased 0.9 percent to $67.21.  IPO Timing  The timing of the IPO depends partly on conditions in
financial and TiO2 markets, Chief Executive Officer Peter Huntsman said on a conference call today. Huntsman plans to
remain a majority owner of the pigment business “for some
time” after the public offering, he said in a phone interview
today.  The company beat out other bidders for the Rockwood assets,
he said.  A shake-up of the TiO2 industry has been in the works since
Rockwood in January announced plans to shed TiO2 by year end.
DuPont Co., the largest producer, said in July it may sell or
spin off its titanium unit.  Tronox Ltd. (TROX) , another U.S.
competitor, said in February it was interested in acquiring TiO2
assets.  Global Oversupply  The sale concludes Rockwood’s transformation into a company
focused on its fastest growing units, lithium and surface
treatment,  Chris Shaw , a New York-based analyst at Monness,
Crespi & Hardt, said today in a note. The sale price is “better
than expected” even though it is less than Rockwood originally
sought, he said.  “The remaining two segments now are free to garner
multiples that are higher than before,” Shaw said. Surface
treatment should trade at 12 times Ebitda and surface treatment
at 8.5 times earnings, he said.  TiO2 sales at Huntsman were $1.44 billion last year and
$889 million at Princeton, New Jersey-based Rockwood. A global
oversupply has caused prices to fall since mid-2012, eroding
profitability.  “We anticipate TiO2 demand will continue to recover in the
coming quarters,” Peter Huntsman said in the statement.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the combined unit will be about $550 million by
2016, Huntsman said. That includes $200 million of Ebitda from
both the Huntsman and Rockwood businesses and $130 million in
synergies, adding 60 cents to Huntsman’s per-share earnings, the
company said in a presentation. About $75 million of savings
should occur by 2015, the company said.  Three Factories  Huntsman will borrow more than $1.1 billion to finance the
transaction, Chief Financial Officer Kimo Esplin said.
Incremental interest payments will be $45 million to $55
million, he said on a conference call.  Huntsman gains three TiO2 factories with about 330,000
metric tons of capacity in Germany and  Finland , Esplin said.
Europe will account for 51 percent of Huntsman’s pigment sales,
up from 45 percent currently. Huntsman becomes the largest buyer
of sulfate ores, providing a raw material cost advantage versus
producers using chloride technology, the company said.  The acquisition also includes Rockwood’s performance
additives unit, which makes synthetic iron-oxide, color
additives, timber-treatment products and specialty automotive
materials.  The acquired units had $1.5 billion of sales in the last 12
months, Huntsman said in the presentation. Earnings in a
“normalized” year are split evenly between TiO2 and
performance additives, Esplin said.  DuPont’s Share  Huntsman said the cash price it’s paying is 5.5 times
estimated 2014 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, excluding one-time items. The multiple is “bang
in line” with the trading valuations for commodity chemical
companies, so Huntsman isn’t paying an acquisition premium,
Ahmed said.  DuPont, which is based in Wilmington,  Delaware , has about
20 percent of global TiO2 capacity,  Saudi Arabia ’s Cristal has
15 percent, Huntsman and Kronos Worldwide Inc. each have 10
percent and Tronox has 9 percent, according to the presentation.  Huntsman said it has commitments to help it finance the
takeover from JP Morgan, BofA Merill Lynch and Citibank. The
company’s financial adviser on the deal is  Bank of America  Corp.
and its legal adviser is Vinson & Elkins LLP. Rockwood said in a
separate statement its financial adviser is Lazard Ltd. and its
legal advisers are Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP and Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey in  New York  at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  