-- Turkey Bank Keeps Rates Unchanged With ‘Cautious Stance’
-- B y   O n u r   A n t
-- 2013-09-17T13:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/turkey-bank-keeps-rates-unchanged-with-cautious-stance-.html
Turkey ’s central bank kept its
three main  interest rates  unchanged today, holding off on
matching monetary-policy tightening in other  developing
countries .  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci kept the benchmark one-week repurchase rate at 4.5 percent, abiding by a commitment
made last month. He also kept the overnight lending and
borrowing rates, which mark the upper and lower ends of his
interest-rate corridor, at 7.75 percent and 3.5 percent
respectively. The decisions matched the expectations of nine
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The committee will maintain the cautious monetary policy
stance and implement additional monetary tightening at the
appropriate frequency until the medium-term inflation outlook is
in line with the medium-term targets,” the central bank said in
a statement on its website.  Inflation was 8.2 percent in August, the third straight
month it has exceeded 8 percent, compared with the bank’s
original 5 percent year-end target.  The lira weakened about 0.2 percent to 2.0094 per dollar at
3:57 p.m. in Istanbul.  Pro-Growth  The central bank in Ankara is steering away from a reliance
on interest rates even as Turkish note yields rose the most
among  emerging markets  over the past three months and the lira
slumped to a record, fueled by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
signal in May that a tapering of stimulus could start this year.
Developing nations including Brazil and  Indonesia  have raised
borrowing costs to stem capital outflows and defend their
currencies.  “Not sure the market is that convinced that this is a bank
particularly focused on countering inflation, or the current-account deficit, but is much more pro-growth oriented,” Timothy Ash, chief emerging-markets economist at Standard Bank Plc in
 London , said in e-mailed comments after the decision.  The Fed is likely to reduce monthly asset purchases to $75
billion from $85 billion, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 34 economists. Policy makers start a two-day
meeting today and Bernanke will hold a press conference at 2:30
p.m. in  Washington  on Sept. 18 following its conclusion.  Basci’s pledge to keep borrowing costs low may enable the
economy to gather steam after growth slowed for seven straight
quarters through the end of last year. The economy expanded by
4.4 percent in the second quarter, following 2.9 percent growth
in the first three months.  Core Inflation  “If the central bank’s concerns for growth continue, the
monetary-policy stance will remain as it is,” Inanc Sozer,
economic research manager at Odeabank AS in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments yesterday.  The central bank said core inflation, which strips out
energy, food, beverages, tobacco and gold, may remain above the
inflation target “for some time” after accelerating to 6.37
percent last month. The bank has in the past cited the core
index as a better indicator of changing pricing tendencies than
the general index.  The bank is providing forward guidance to investors on
potentially higher core-inflation readings to preempt the shock,
said Nihan Ziya-Erdem, an economist at Turkiye Garanti Bankasi
in Istanbul.  “This is about preparing the market,” she said. “The
bank is trying to ensure inflation figures don’t hurt the  market
sentiment  going forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Onur Ant in Ankara at 
 oant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  