-- Turkish Lira Weakens First Day in 3 as Bank Leaves Rates on Hold
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-09-17T13:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/turkish-lira-weakens-first-day-in-3-as-bank-leaves-rates-on-hold.html
The lira weakened for the first
time in three days as the Turkish central bank left  interest
rates  unchanged and belied expectations of a cut in foreign-exchange reserve requirements.  The currency depreciated 0.3 percent to 2.0098 per dollar
at 2:34 a.m. in Istanbul. The yield on  two-year notes  jumped 17
basis points, or 0.17 percentage points, to 8.91 percent, set
for the biggest advance since Aug. 26.  Turkey’s central bank will consider tools including cutting
the foreign-exchange reserve ratio to defend the lira, Ercan Erguzel, an economist at Denizbank AS in Istanbul, said on Sept.
12. The lira slid 3.3 percent in the past month, the second-worst performer after the Indonesian rupiah, among 24 emerging-market currencies monitored by Bloomberg. The bank kept the
benchmark  one-week repurchase  rate at 4.5 percent today,
matching the median estimate of nine economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  “If the foreign exchange kept in reserves had been freed,
this could have supported the lira,” Bora Tamer Yilmaz, an
Istanbul-based economist at Ziraat Investment, a unit of
 Turkey ’s biggest state-owned lender TC Ziraat Bankasi AS, said
in e-mailed comments.  Federal Reserve policy makers decide whether to reduce the
pace of bond purchases at a two-day meeting starting in
 Washington  today. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG say the
worst isn’t over for Turkey’s lira to  South Africa ’s rand as the
Fed prepares to taper stimulus as early as tomorrow, drying up
funds that were chasing higher-yielding assets.  Lira Volatility  Turkey’s central bank also maintained the overnight lending
and borrowing rates, which mark the upper and lower ends of the
nation’s interest-rate corridor, at 7.75 percent and 3.5 percent
respectively, it said in a statement from Ankara today.  The bank said  core inflation  indicators are “likely to
hover above” its year-end inflation target of 5 percent “for
some time due to the exchange-rate volatility observed during
the recent months”.  The local currency’s price swings climbed to 11.76 percent
on Sept. 5, the highest level since February 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Two days later, the Statistics
Office data showed core inflation accelerated to 6.37 percent in
August from 6.09 percent in the previous month.  A cut in foreign-exchange reserve ratio requirements
“would have limited the negative impact of the lira’s
depreciation on core inflation, Yilmaz added.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  