-- Venezuela Plans New Foreign-Exchange System as Bolivar Falls
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v
-- 2013-09-17T19:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/venezuela-plans-new-foreign-exchange-system-as-bolivar-slides.html
Venezuela  will unveil a new
foreign-exchange system as it tries to arrest the decline of the
bolivar, which is at a record low in the black-market, Finance
Minister Nelson Merentes said.  The black-market dollar is weak because the currency is
scarce as a result of hoarding and speculation, Merentes said in
an interview yesterday on the Globovision network. A new
devaluation of the bolivar’s official rate “is not being
considered,” he said.  “We want to use this market to encourage the private
sector to sell their dollars in a transparent, logical and
rational way in a market as they did before,” the finance
minister said, referring to the new system. A supplementary
foreign-exchange auction platform introduced in March, known as
Sicad, “needs to be evaluated,” he said.  The yield on the Venezuelan government’s benchmark 9.25
percent dollar bonds due in 2027 fell 18 basis points, or 0.18
percentage point, to 11.23 percent at 3:05 p.m.  New York  time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price rose 1.10
cents to 86.17 cents. Venezuela’s dollar debt has returned 4.9
percent so far this month compared to an average return of 1.4
percent for speculative-grade emerging market debt tracked by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Transparency  “The new market could trade all possible financial
instruments, as long as it’s done transparently,” Jesus Faria,
vice president of the National Assembly’s finance committee,
said in an interview in Caracas today. “If the new platform is
rolled out on a large scale, Sicad would certainly lose purpose.
Trying to manage three separate systems would lead to total
disorder.”  The National Assembly is waiting for a proposal from
Venezuela President  Nicolas Maduro , and the central bank-administered Cadivi exchange that trades bolivars at the
official rate will remain the country’s main source of foreign
exchange, he said.  National Assembly finance committee President  Ricardo Sanguino  told reporters today that the new system would be
distinct from a currency swap market that was closed in 2010.  Shortages of goods in Venezuela ranging from sugar to beef
are stoking one of the world’s highest inflation rates as
importers struggle to obtain foreign currency. The annual
inflation rate accelerated to 45.4 percent last month from 42.6
percent in July, while the scarcity index measuring the amount
of goods out of stock on store shelves reached 20 percent, the
central bank said Sept. 10.  Devaluation  Venezuela devalued the official  exchange rate  to 6.3
bolivars per dollar from 4.3 bolivars in February. On the black
market, one dollar currently buys around 44.58 bolivars,
according to rate-tracking website  dolartoday.com , which tracks
the exchange rate on the border with  Colombia .  Month-on-month price gains reached 6.1 percent in May, and
remained high even as the pace moderated, Merentes said.  “We have to attack the shortages, inflation, strengthen
reserves, foreign exchange issues, fiscal issues, monetary
mass,” he said.  The economy isn’t in its “best stage” and has had “a
little more trouble” since former President  Hugo Chavez  died in
March, Merentes said. The central bank and state companies
including oil producer  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  will be able to
sell dollars in the new foreign-exchange system, he said.  Dollar Soars  “If the dollar soars, you inject more liquidity into the
market,” Merentes said. “We’re heading toward another model
with a secondary market where the private sector can act.”  The government is not holding talks with the  International
Monetary Fund , Merentes said, after Miami-based El Nuevo Herald
newspaper reported Sept. 14 that the government and the lender
were discussing financing. Venezuela will seek funding from
countries including  Russia , China and Latin American partners,
he said.  Maduro will visit  China  Sept. 21-24 at the invitation of
Chinese President Xi Jinping, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman
Hong Lei said at a briefing today.  “Government mismanagement of the exchange policy in recent
months has seriously dented the authorities’ credibility, making
it more difficult for them to stabilize the currency,” Barclays
Plc said in a note to clients on Sept. 13.  The National Assembly reconvened today with plans to make
changes to the country’s foreign exchange law. Merentes said the
country would make a payment on its foreign debt this month as
scheduled.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Caracas at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  