-- Vestas, Alstom Urge EU to Support 2030 Renewable Energy Target
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-09-17T11:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/vestas-alstom-urge-eu-to-support-2030-renewable-energy-target.html
The European Union should adopt a
binding renewable energy target for 2030,  Vestas Wind Systems
A/S (VWS) ,  Alstom SA (ALO)  and 59 other companies and associations said in a
letter to the bloc’s policy makers.  The 28-nation EU needs a strong and ambitious climate and
energy package for the decade after its current goals expire in
2020, according to the letter sent today to ministers for
energy, EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  and Energy
Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger .  “Given the long investment cycles in the energy sector and
the fact that investment decisions in the EU’s liberalized
energy markets strongly depend on reliability, certainty about
the regulatory framework of the next 17 years is needed,” said
the companies and lobbies, which also include Spain’s  Gamesa
Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM)  and  Acciona SA. (ANA)   The EU, in the fourth year of a sovereign-debt crisis,
wants to remain the leader in the global fight against climate
change while ensuring the security of energy supply and
fostering competitiveness. Climate and energy strategy for 2030
is on the agenda of an informal meeting of energy ministers in
Vilnius, Lithuania, on Sept. 19-20.  The European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, has
pledged to propose further steps on the package this autumn
before EU leaders discuss the matter at a summit in March 2014.
The challenge will be for the EU to design a coherent framework
that takes into account ambition, competitiveness, economic
viability and the differing capacities of  member states .  ‘Binding Target’  “We, as a group of 61 European companies and associations,
strongly believe that a new climate and energy framework for
2030 needs to be based on mutually reinforcing tools and
targets, including a legally binding target for renewable
energy,” according to the letter published on the European
Renewable Energy Council’s website.  Under the current climate and energy package, the EU has
binding goals to cut greenhouse gases by 20 percent and to
increase the share of green energy to an average of 20 percent
by the end of this decade as well as a political target to boost
energy efficiency by one-fifth.  The commission has said the most cost-efficient way for the
EU to attain its long-term aim to cut emisions by at least 80
percent in 2050 is to adopt a 40-percent target for 2030. Any
decision on a new target will need to be approved by national
governments and the European Parliament.  European policy makers will also need to decide whether the
region needs binding targets for renewables and  energy
efficiency  after 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  