-- Visteon CEO Says Company May Forgo NYSE for Hong Kong
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-09-17T16:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/visteon-ceo-says-company-may-forgo-nyse-for-hong-kong.html
Visteon Corp. (VC) , the auto-parts maker
focusing on Asian growth, is considering leaving the  New York 
Stock Exchange and trading in  Hong Kong , where investors
recognize the company’s value, its top executive said.  “In Asia, where the bulk of our business is and the bulk
of the automotive industry is, this is a growth industry, but
we’re not getting growth multiples,” Chief Executive Officer
Tim Leuliette said in an interview after a Bloomberg auto forum
in Southfield, Michigan, yesterday. “We need to start being
valued on where we do business, not where we’re domiciled.”  Visteon, which emerged from bankruptcy in 2010, does less
than 10 percent of its business in the U.S. and is growing
rapidly in  Asia , Leuliette said. The Van Buren Township,
Michigan-based company is still viewed by U.S. investors as a
mature  Detroit  auto stock with limited growth potential.  On the NYSE, “we’re trading at a discount because we’re
Detroit,” Leuliette said. “If there is a pox on an industry in
a particular region because of historical issues that is
clouding the value proposition, we need to find a solution to
that.”  That solution may be delisting Visteon from the NYSE and
trading on the Hong Kong exchange, Leuliette said.  “That’s an option we should consider,” he said. “We have
to create  shareholder value . That’s what we’re paid to do.”  Visteon was unchanged at $73.77 at 12:11 p.m. New York
time.  The shares gained 37 percent this year through yesterday,
trailing the 40 percent increase for the Bloomberg Americas Auto
Part/Equipment Index, which has 24 stocks, including Visteon.  Visteon Earnings  Visteon earned $134 million in the first half of this year,
up from $46 million a year earlier. Revenue rose to $3.75
billion during the period, up from $3.41 billion a year earlier.  Last year, Visteon derived 48 percent of its revenue, or
 $3.28 billion , from Asia.  North America  accounted for 20 percent
of the company’s revenue, while Europe was 35 percent.  Visteon, spun off from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in 2000, has tried to
dispose of lower-margin units to focus on faster-growing Asian
operations after exiting bankruptcy. Leuliette, 63, formerly
part of a bloc of Visteon directors who favored revamping the
company, became CEO last year after the company failed to
generate consistent profits.  “We’re a global business and we should be valued on a
global basis,” Leuliette said. “We’ve got to make sure that we
just don’t sit back and use a U.S. yardstick of a mature
industry on what is globally a high growth industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  