-- Volaris Surges in First Day of Trading After Share Sale
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-09-18T20:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/volaris-sells-shares-at-bottom-of-range-in-mexican-airline-s-ipo.html
Volaris expects to add 15 U.S.
destinations over the next three years, the carrier’s chief
executive officer said after completing  Mexico ’s first initial
public offering by an airline since 2011.  The expansion goes along with Volaris’s growth plans in
Mexico, where its low fares are helping win customers away from
other airlines and bus companies, CEO Enrique Beltranena said
today in a telephone interview from  New York . The shares  surged 
15 percent to 17.88 pesos at the close in Mexico City after the
IPO raised at least $346 million.  “When you look at per-capita air trips, Mexico is well
below the world average, and that’s because of the huge market
of bus passengers,” Beltranena said. “We made a business model
that would cater to the middle class, offer point-to-point
service and cannibalize the bus market.”  Adding U.S. markets would help the Mexico City-based
airline, officially known as  Controladora Vuela Cia. de Aviacion
SAB , build on its Mexican base. Volaris flew 23 percent of
domestic passengers this year through July and almost doubled
its market share in the past five years, government data show.  The carrier now flies to 11 U.S. cities, including  Los
Angeles , Denver and  Chicago . Beltranena declined to say what
U.S. destinations he’s considering in its expansion plan.  In its home market, Volaris is targeting a bus industry
that had 74 million passenger trips in its so-called executive
and luxury category last year, the airline said in a Sept. 16
prospectus. Domestic air passengers totaled 28.2 million in 2012
as Mexico’s total air traffic climbed at the fastest pace since
2007 to a record 56.8 million,  according  to the Ministry of
Communications and Transportation.  Other Airlines  Volaris became Mexico’s second publicly traded carrier,
after larger competitor  Grupo Aeromexico SAB (AEROMEX*)  sold stock in 2011.
Airlines in Mexico have expanded into a void left when Cia.
Mexicana de Aviacion, then largest based on passenger traffic,
sought protection from creditors and ceased operations in 2010.  Interjet, Mexico’s No. 2 airline, is studying a share sale
for 2014 or 2015, Executive President Miguel Aleman Magnani said
last month. The country’s fourth-largest airline, Aeroenlaces
Nacionales SA, known as VivaAerobus, has hired Barclays Plc to
help prepare a possible offering, according to three people
familiar with the matter.  Record Issuance  The Volaris IPO, Mexico’s first since July 23, extends a
record pace of stock issuance in the country this year. Not
including the Volaris offering, Mexican companies raised a
record $9.93 billion in equity markets in 2013, 10 percent more
than the $9.02 billion in all of 2012. Grupo Financiero Banorte
SAB, Mexico’s third-biggest bank, raised $2.53 billion in a
follow-on stock offering in July.  Deutsche Bank AG, Morgan Stanley and UBS AG led the Volaris
share sale, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The airline sold
 American depositary receipts  at $12 each, the bottom of the
projected $12 to $14 range the airline gave in a Sept. 16
regulatory filing.  The ADRs climbed 17 percent to $14.01 at the close in
New York.  Demand was 2.85 times the total shares offered, Beltranena
said. The Mexican shares were priced at 15.51 pesos each.  “For me, what was important was to build a solid portfolio
that would attract investors, give them an upside and lead to
solid trading as we move ahead,” Beltranena said. “The history
of Volaris is one that gives an important potential to the
stock.”  Cost Advantage  The company began operations in 2006 and its fleet includes
Airbus SAS single-aisle A319 and A320 jets. Owners include
Indigo Partners LLC,  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and Evercore Co-Chairman Pedro Aspe, a former Mexico finance minister, according
to the pre-IPO filing.  Volaris has said it has some of the lowest operating
expenses among publicly traded carriers in the Americas, with
costs per available seat mile, an industry benchmark, at 9.4
cents. Sales for 2012 totaled $887 million, up from $397 million
in 2008 based on average exchange rates during the respective
years, according to the airline.  The carrier will spend $164 million of the proceeds from
the share offering on aircraft pre-delivery payments during the
next three years, Beltranena said.  Volaris has firm commitments for 49 Airbus A320s for
delivery over next eight years, according to the prospectus. The
carrier has no plans to add smaller or larger aircraft to its
fleet, Beltranena said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  