-- Volkswagen May Build Small SUV at Factory in Tennessee
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-09-17T22:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/volkswagen-may-build-small-suv-at-factory-in-tennessee.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  plans to debut a
subcompact sport-utility vehicle in the U.S. as soon as 2016 and
may build it at its Tennessee factory.  “Chattanooga is in the lead” to build the small SUV, Marc
Trahan, executive vice president of VW of America, told
reporters following a speech to the Automotive Press Association
in  Detroit  yesterday. “We’ve made a significant investment in
Chattanooga and it’s one that we want to have its full potential
realized.”  Volkswagen, based in Wolfsburg,  Germany , is looking to
increased deliveries in the U.S. to help it achieve its target
of becoming the world’s largest automaker by 2018. U.S. sales of
VW-brand vehicles, including the Passat sedan produced at the $1
billion Tennessee factory, fell 1.3 percent to 282,913 this year
through August.  VW will decide where to build its small SUV by the end of
the year and cost will be the determining factor, Trahan said.
At this stage, the Chattanooga plant would beat a VW factory in
 Mexico , he said.  “For me, the answer is obvious, but we have to go through
a pretty deliberative decision-making process,” Trahan said.
“Additional product will go in” the Chattanooga plant. “It’s
not a question of if. It’s a question of when and what.”  Trahan yesterday declined to discuss VW’s talks with the
United Auto Workers union.  VW and the UAW met in Germany Aug. 30 to discuss
establishing a German-style works council at the Chattanooga
factory. The meeting in Wolfsburg focused on how the automaker
might recognize the UAW as a representative of its Chattanooga
workers and how to set up a works council comprised of union and
management representatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  