-- Whole Milk Powder Prices Gain 1.1%, Remain Near Four-Month Highs
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-09-17T20:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/whole-milk-powder-prices-gain-1-1-remain-near-four-month-highs.html
Whole milk powder prices rose for
the second time in three auctions to remain near four-month
highs, adding to signs that Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. can
achieve its increased forecast payment to New Zealand farmers.  Powder for delivery across all contracts through March rose
1.1 percent, according to a trade-weighted index posted on
Fonterra’s  GlobalDairyTrade  website. The average winning price
was $5,096 a metric ton. Prices rose to $5,124 on Aug. 20.  Fonterra, the world’s biggest dairy exporter, last month
twice raised its forecast payment to New Zealand farmers for the
year through May 2014, citing the outlook for global prices
Whole milk auction prices have surged 62 percent since the start
of the year.  New Zealand milk production is forecast to increase 5
percent in the 2013-14 season, the company said Sept. 6. Still,
the global market continues to be in a supply constrained
position, it said. Fonterra has reduced the volume it will offer
at the auction because of demand from customers for products not
offered at those sales, it said this month  Fonterra achieved record sales at two auctions in August,
held in the weeks after it disclosed a contamination scare
affecting a protein shipped to  China  and used in the manufacture
of baby formula. New Zealand officials said Aug. 28 that their
testing showed the contamination didn’t pose food safety risks.  Fonterra, which accounts for about a third of the global
trade in dairy products, sells whole, skim and butter-milk
powder, dried-milk fat, lactose, butter, cheese and casein at
its GlobalDairyTrade auctions. Casein is a protein found in
milk. Prices across all products gained 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  