-- Yellen Seen as Likely Fed Nominee in Survey After Summers Exit
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2013-09-17T13:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/yellen-seen-as-likely-fed-nominee-in-survey-after-summers-exit.html
Janet Yellen is overwhelmingly seen
as likely to be nominated as chairman of the Federal Reserve to
succeed Ben S. Bernanke, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Fifty-six of 65 economists in the survey, or 86 percent,
said President  Barack Obama  is likely to pick Yellen, the Fed’s
vice chairman. The survey was taken yesterday and today, after
former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers withdrew from
contention. A Sept. 6 poll showed that 49 percent of economists
expected Summers to be Obama’s pick, compared with 38 percent
for Yellen.  “The smart political move is to find someone who will sail
to confirmation,” said Sarah Binder, a senior fellow at the
Brookings Institution who studies the relationship between the
Fed and Congress. “Yellen clearly fits the bill.”  Summers, who served as Obama’s top economic adviser in the
president’s first term, withdrew his name two days ago rather
than face what he said would be an “acrimonious” confirmation
process. Four Democrats on the Senate Banking Committee, which
approves Fed nominees before they are considered by the full
Senate, had signaled opposition to Summers.  Yellen was viewed as the best choice by 52 percent in the
most recent survey. Former Fed Vice Chairman Donald Kohn was
second, with 10 percent. Kohn, Yellen and Summers all were
mentioned by Obama as possible candidates to replace Bernanke,
whose term ends Jan. 31.  Asset Purchases  The transition comes as the Fed prepares to start cutting
back on $85 billion in monthly purchases of bonds intended to
spur growth and employment. Bernanke has said the so-called
quantitative easing program is likely to end in the middle of
next year if the economy performs as expected. Policy makers
meet today and tomorrow in  Washington .  Economists in the latest survey saw slim chances for other
candidates, including Kohn and another former vice chairman,
Roger Ferguson. Ferguson, now chief executive officer of TIAA-CREF, was seen as the likely choice by 5 percent of economists.
Kohn was named by 3 percent.  Yellen is Obama’s top candidate to lead the central bank
even after her supporters helped force the withdrawal of
Summers, his initial favorite, according to people familiar with
the process. White House Press Secretary Jay Carney said
yesterday that Obama’s timetable for announcing a choice had not
changed from his earlier statement that he’d do it “in the
fall.”  ‘High Hurdle’  “Given that the candidate will inevitably be compared to
Yellen, it’s still a high hurdle for the White House” to
nominate someone else, said Binder. “They’ll need to meet the
‘Why not Yellen?’ challenge as well.”  Yellen has won the endorsement of 20 senators in the
Democratic caucus, led by Sherrod Brown of  Ohio , who wrote a
letter to the president saying that she is “the best person for
this job.”  She has also won the public support of many of her fellow
economists. More than 450 of them have signed a letter arguing
that she is “superbly qualified” and “the best possible
leader for the Federal Reserve Board at this critical time in
our nation’s history.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in Washington at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  