-- Yingli Leads Slump on Supply as NQ Gains: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-09-17T20:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/yingli-leads-slump-on-supply-as-nq-gains-china-overnight.html
Chinese solar makers fell in New
York on speculation a government measure to curb excess capacity
won’t be enough to lift panel prices.  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ)  rose after
introducing a mobile game in  North America .  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. was little changed at 102.2
yesterday.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , the largest solar-panel maker, dropped 3.7 percent, and LDK Solar Co. slid after a
Chinese credit rating agency cut it to junk. Suntech Power
Holdings Co. sank for a second day. NQ Mobile led gainers in the
measure, while Qihoo 360 Technology Co. rebounded after an 8.7
percent, three-day slump.  China will control the construction of new photovoltaic
manufacturing projects to curb excess capacity in the world’s
biggest maker of solar panels, and new producers that expand
capacity will be banned, the Ministry of Industry and
 Information Technology  said yesterday on its website. A global
oversupply of solar panels led to a 20 percent plunge in average
prices last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Photovoltaic manufacturers make equipment needed to generate
solar power.  “The Chinese government will not be able to solve the
oversupply issue overnight,” Chris Kettenman, the chief energy
strategist at Prime Executions Inc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “While policy change is a start,
it doesn’t fully address the structural oversupply issues. Too
much direct policy intervention to re-balance markets is never a
good thing either.”  ETF Drops  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slipped 0.5 percent to $38.41
in  New York , the first decline in three days. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.4 percent to a one-month high as
Microsoft Corp. announced a $40 million buyback and Federal
Reserve policy makers begin a two-day policy meeting.  Yingli, based in Baoding, China, dropped to $5.54, the
first decline in three days. Suntech, whose China unit was
forced into bankruptcy in March, sank for a second day, slumping
3.2 percent to $1.21.  Credit rating of LDK, the second-biggest maker of solar
wafers, was cut to B+ from BBB+ by Shanghai Brilliance Credit
Rating & Investors Services Co., according to a report yesterday
on Chinamoney.com.cn, a website of the China Foreign Exchange
Trade system. The rating company cited continued declines in
output and sales, idle capacity and excessive debt repayment
pressure as reasons for the downgrade. LDK’s ADRs retreated 1.3
percent to a three-day low of $1.55.  Gods & Dragons  NQ Mobile, a developer of mobile-security software that
also operates games on mobile devices, jumped 9.2 percent to a
record $22.52 in New York, after losing the most in a month
Sept. 16.  The Beijing-based company said yesterday its games unit
started offering Gods & Dragons, one of the top-five games for
devices using Apple Inc.’s platform in  China , in the U.S. and
 Canada . It also started last week Music Radar, a music search
app for mobile devices running Android and iOS platforms.  The company is “moving toward a mobile search play and its
Music Radar is bigger than you thought because it will
ultimately be developed into a voice and picture search tool for
smartphones,” Jun Zhang, an analyst at Wedge Partners Corp. in
 Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , said by phone yesterday. “The new
products will help drive its growth.”  Qihoo, which owns China’s second-biggest online search
engine, gained 1.9 percent to $84.51, rallying the most in a
week.  Market Share  Beijing-based Qihoo tumbled 5.6 percent on Sept. 16 after
 Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s largest Internet company by
market value, paid $448 million for a 36.5 percent stake of
Sogou, a smaller search engine owned by  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  Sohu Chief
Executive Officer Charles Zhang said this week that talks with
Qihoo have ended and the company won’t seek additional investors
for its Sogou unit in the “near future.”  Qihu’s share in the Internet search market rose to about 20
percent on Sept. 14, 86Research Ltd. wrote in a note yesterday,
citing data from CNZZ. The company’s “management appeared to be
confident in increasing search traffic organically to 30 percent
even without buying Sogou,” according to the report.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises  Index (HSCEI)  fell 0.5 percent
yesterday to 10,650.64, retreating from the highest level since
May. The Shanghai Composite Index sank 2.1 percent to 2,185.56,
extending its decline into a third day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  