-- Yudhoyono Uses Idol-Style Test to Find Successor: Southeast Asia
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   N e i l   C h a t t e r j e e
-- 2013-09-18T04:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/yudhoyono-uses-idol-style-test-to-find-successor-southeast-asia.html
Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s party is putting its presidential hopefuls through
an American Idol-style contest that will see them criss-crossing
the country for eight months while footing some of the cost.  The contestant who tops a nationwide public survey held by
May will win the Democrat Party nomination for the July
election, according to Suaidi Marasabessy, secretary of its
convention committee. Among the 11 standing in the party primary
are Pramono Edhie Wibowo, Yudhoyono’s brother-in-law and a
former army chief of staff, and Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan , a
former JPMorgan Chase & Co. banker.  The winning candidate faces an uphill battle to revive the
party’s fortunes and lead it to a third-straight presidential
win, with three senior party officials facing graft charges in
the past two years and Yudhoyono’s legacy of economic stability
threatened by a sliding rupiah and record current-account
deficit. Opinion polls show voters in the nation with the
world’s largest Muslim population supporting other parties.  “It’s a desperate way to gain popularity,” said Keith
Loveard, head of risk analysis at Concord Consulting, a Jakarta-based security and risk advisory company, of the selection
process. “The Democrats have become -- perhaps always were --
the machine of SBY, and without SBY there from 2014 the party is
effectively leaderless,” he said, referring to Yudhoyono by his
acronym.  Yudhoyono, whose party won the 2009 election and who can’t
run for a third term, invited his former Vice President Jusuf Kalla to take part in the contest, Kompas reported in May. Kalla
declined and likened it to Indonesian Idol, the local version of
Fox Broadcasting Co.’s talent show.  Poll Favorites  The Democrat candidate may face Jakarta Governor Joko Widodo, a member of the Indonesian  Democratic Party  of Struggle,
or PDI-P, who has topped several popularity surveys. The PDI-P
hasn’t announced its candidate. Another poll favorite is former
general Prabowo Subianto of the Gerindra party.  The coalition government, which includes the nation’s
second-biggest  party , Golkar, has come under scrutiny this year
as inflation in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy reached a four-year high, the rupiah fell and economic growth slowed below 6
percent for the first time since 2010.  “If the economic situation worsens this will be bad for
the Democrats,” said Yose Rizal, founder of politicawave.com,
which tracks political discourse on the Internet. Still, it may
not impact the race to be the party’s candidate “because people
tend to look at the track record of a candidate and less so on
their vision” for managing the economy.  Piano Player  Trade Minister Wirjawan, 47, was president of JPMorgan’s
Indonesian unit for two years until 2008. He oversaw record
foreign direct investment as chief of the investment board
before becoming trade minister. He installed a  piano  in the
ministry’s foyer and occasionally plays jazz.  His policies as trade minister have gone down less well
with mining investors, and the government has backtracked in
recent months on rules setting food import quotas and
restricting mineral ore shipments. Wirjawan, who is not a
Democrat member, told reporters on Sept. 15 he aims to boost the
economy with equitable growth.  Pramono, 58, joined the Democrats after retiring from his
army post in May, and has said he won’t “drag” the army into
his campaign. “If a former subordinate sympathizes with me then
I won’t prohibit it,” he told reporters on Sept. 15.  No Savior  “Pramono is being talked up in sections of the media by
the Yudhoyono family as a serious presidential candidate but he
has few obvious political skills and he’s a poor public
speaker,” said Greg Fealy, an associate professor at the
 Australian National University  in Canberra. “He’s not the
future savior of the Democrat Party.”  Election rules  require a party or a coalition to hold at
least 20 percent of parliament seats or win 25 percent of votes
in the legislative election -- due in April -- to nominate a
presidential candidate. The Democrats ranked second with 10.3
percent in a survey of party popularity by the Soegeng Sarjadi
School of Government and released on Detik.com, behind the PDI-P
on 13.6 percent. Gerindra was third and Golkar fourth, according
to the survey conducted Aug. 25-Sept. 9 with 1,250 respondents
in 10 cities.  If Widodo were to run for president he’d win, the  survey 
showed, with 45.8 percent of respondents picking him, followed
by Kalla on 9 percent.  Pramono said if he was selected by the convention he would
welcome the chance to be Widodo’s deputy, according to a report
in the  Jakarta Globe  today. Pramono has also likened his
leadership style to the Jakarta mayor.  Covering Costs  The Democrat machinery, supported by 50 billion rupiah
($4.5 million) of party funds, will allow participants to go on
the campaign trail across  Indonesia , party secretary Marasabessy
said. The funds don’t cover travel expenses for campaign teams
and participants must pay for their own merchandise such as T-shirts, he said.  Two public surveys will be held throughout the contest with
the last one to determine the outcome in May at the latest, said
Marasabessy.  Other candidates are State-Owned Enterprises Minister
Dahlan Iskan, House of Representatives Speaker Marzuki Alie, and
Indonesian ambassador to the U.S. Dino Patti Djalal.  Former military chief of staff Endriartono Sutarto, former
youth and sports minister Hayono Isman, Regional Council
Chairman Irman Gusman and Governor of North Sulawesi province
Sinyo Harry Sarundajang are also among the contenders.  The rest are Ali Masykur Musa, a member of the state audit
board and head of the scholars association of Nahdlatul Ulama,
Indonesia’s biggest Muslim organization, and Anies Baswedan,
dean of Paramadina University in Jakarta.  ‘Negative Publicity’  The process is a form of political education that may pave
the way for other parties to follow suit, Ahmad Mubarok, a
member of the party’s advisory board, said on Sept. 6.  Still, “the general consensus is the whole idea is a bid
to overcome the negative publicity about the party due to all
the corruption cases,” Concord’s Loveard said.  Former party treasurer Muhammad Nazaruddin was sentenced to
more than four years in prison for bribery in 2012, while the
anti-graft agency has convicted the country’s ex-traffic police
chief, arrested the head of the oil regulator and raided the
central bank.  “The Democrats are not going to achieve very much by
touting a lot of second-level talents around the country,”
Loveard said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Chatterjee in Jakarta at 
 nchatterjee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  