-- Zloty Weakens From Month-High on Fed Taper Concern: Warsaw Mover
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-09-17T15:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-17/zloty-weakens-from-month-high-on-fed-taper-concern-warsaw-mover.html
The zloty slid from its highest in
a month and Polish government bonds fell as the Federal Reserve
begins its two-day policy meeting, adding to concern tapering
will result in outflows from emerging-market assets.  The currency depreciated for the first time in three days
as investors speculated the Federal Open Market Committee will
probably lower its monthly bond purchases to scale back monetary
stimulus. It gained 2.6 percent in the third quarter, the
second-best performer among 24 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after South Korea’s won.  “The zloty outperformance has already run a long way at
current levels,” Societe Generale SA’s emerging-market
strategists led by  Benoit Anne  wrote in a note. SocGen
recommends selling the zloty in favor of the Czech koruna.  Poland’s currency weakened 0.4 percent to 4.2169 against
the euro at 4:24 p.m. in Warsaw, after it breached its 200-day
moving average of 4.1897/EUR yesterday, the strongest level
since Aug. 13. The yields on 10-year government bonds rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 4.44 percent, the
first advance in five days.  Poland’s currency is also trading near the 50 percent
retracement of the rally from June, one of the levels singled
out in Fibonacci analysis, which is based on the theory that
prices rise or fall by certain percentages after a high or low.  The Fed will probably cut its $85 billion of monthly debt
buying by $10 billion tomorrow, according to the median estimate
of 34 economists in a Bloomberg News survey on Sept. 6. The
stimulus has helped fuel a rally in assets worldwide, including
Polish bonds, as investors sought alternatives to near-zero
rates in developed countries.  Wage Growth  “We can see EUR/PLN return to the mid 4.30’s and possibly
all the way up to 4.40 in a sharp worsening environment for
risk,” Anne, the head of emerging-markets strategy at SocGen,
wrote in the note.  The average  wage  in  Poland  rose 2 percent from last year in
August, the Central Statistical Office said today, missing the
2.8 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 31
economists. The office will release data on August industrial
output tomorrow. Growth in  production  probably slowed to 2.7
percent annually from 6.3 percent in July, a separate Bloomberg
survey shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  