-- 
Assad to Address Reforms in TV Interview

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-08-21T09:19:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/assad-plans-to-appear-on-syrian-television-as-violent-crackdown-escalates.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
will address recent events in the nation and the government’s
reforms in an interview today with Syrian television as security
forces extend a violent crackdown on protesters.  Assad will discuss the “implications of U.S. and Western
pressures on Syria politically and economically,” the Damascus-
based  Syrian Arab News Agency  reported, without saying where it
got the information. The interview will address “Syria’s future
vision,” the news service said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , in a coordinated move with
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , issued a statement
on Aug. 18 saying Assad should step down and allow Syrians to
chart their own political future. The European Union reached an
agreement to broaden sanctions against the regime, including
preparing for an embargo on the import of Syrian crude oil into
the bloc, according to an e-mailed statement on Aug. 19.  Faced with the most serious threat to his family’s 40-year
rule, Assad has deployed tanks, armored vehicles, artillery and
helicopters to crush the uprising that began in mid-March after
revolts ousted the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  and sparked a
conflict in  Libya . Assad, who succeeded his father as president
after his death in 2000, has blamed the protests on foreign-
inspired plots.  “Assad has lost credibility with the U.S., the Arab states
and the Europeans,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research
at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf Military
Analysis. “His commitment to reform is all talk.”  Violent Crackdown  Since Assad told UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on Aug.
18 that security operations had stopped, the government has
maintained its crackdown. Thirteen people died yesterday in
clashes, with most of the deaths in the city of Homs, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Damascus-based Arab Organization for Human
Rights, said in a phone interview from Damascus, the capital.  Government forces fired on protesters yesterday in the Homs
governorate and Daraa, according to Merhi. At least 40 people
were killed on Aug. 19 in Damascus, Homs and Daraa, the area
where the revolt against  Syria ’s president began, according to
the  website  of the National Organization for Human Rights in
Syria.  Armed groups killed 12 members of the security forces on
Aug. 19 in Damascus, Homs and Idlib, the state-run Syrian Arab
News Agency reported. Security forces in the al-Ramel al-Janoubi
neighborhood in the coastal city of Latakia seized machine guns,
hand grenades and explosives, the  news service  reported today.  More than 2,400 people have been killed since the protests
started, according to Merhi and Qurabi. More than 500 members of
the security forces have died since the unrest began, the
government has said.  Obama’s Declaration  Obama’s declaration was his first explicit call for Assad
to give up power since the uprising started. He also signed an
executive order freezing any Syrian government assets in the
U.S. and banning the import to the U.S. of petroleum products of
Syrian origin. The order prohibits people in the U.S. from doing
business with Syria.  The European Union aims to put “an end to the brutal
repression” and assist the Syrian people to achieve their
“legitimate aspirations” by broadening sanctions against the
regime, EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said in the
statement on Aug. 19.  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait  and Bahrain withdrew their ambassadors
from Syria earlier this month.  A UN team will go to Syria this weekend on a four-day
mission to assess the humanitarian situation, emergency relief
coordinator Valerie Amos told reporters. She said the government
has pledged “full access” for the team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 