-- 
First Air Says Dozen Killed in Canadian Crash

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-08-20T22:15:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/canadian-first-air-737-plane-crash-near-resolute-bay-kills-12-of-15-aboard.html
Twelve people were killed when a
First Air 737 passenger jet with 15 on board crashed near
Resolute Bay in Nunavut,  Canada , the company said. Three people
survived.  The Boeing 737-200 charter aircraft was en route from
Yellowknife,  Northwest Territories , when it crashed about
12:50 p.m. local time, the company said in an e-mailed
statement. The plane lost contact with air controllers about 10
minutes prior to the crash and five miles from the Resolute Bay
airport, First Air said.  Four crew members were among the 15, First Air said. It
wasn’t immediately known who had chartered the flight.  The town of Resolute Bay, located next to a like-named body
of water, is about 2,100 miles northwest of  Montreal . The
 Canadian Broadcasting Corp.  reported that hundreds of military
personnel are in the area for Operation Nanook, though the plane
had no part in any simulation exercises.  Canada’s Transportation Safety Board said in a statement
today it has sent a team to the site of the accident to
investigate.  First Air is a wholly owned unit of Makivik Corp., which
oversees money paid out to Canadian Inuit under land claims
agreements. The carrier is owned by 9,000 Inuit of northern
 Quebec  via Makivik, according to the company’s  website .  Based in Kanata, Ontario, First Air operates passenger and
cargo flights between 30 communities in the Canadian Arctic and
larger cities such as Ottawa and Montreal. It has a fleet that
includes four Boeing 737-200 aircraft, and its aircraft are also
used for mineral and scientific exploration and aerial surveys.  A voicemail left on the media line of the Iqaluit
detachment of the  Royal Canadian Mounted Police  wasn’t
immediately returned, nor was a voicemail left with the RMCP
media line in Ottawa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  