-- 
Canada Dollar Falls on European Debt Crisis, Slower U.S. Economic Growth

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-08-20T04:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/canada-dollar-falls-on-european-debt-crisis-slower-u-s-economic-growth.html
Canada ’s dollar fell for a fourth
week versus its U.S. counterpart in the longest losing streak
since June amid concern global growth will falter as the
American economy stalls and Europe’s debt crisis worsens.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, dropped against
13 of its 16 most-traded peers as crude oil, Canada’s biggest
export, tumbled for a fourth week. Yields on Canada’s 10-year
bonds touched a record low as economists cut forecasts for
growth in the U.S., the nation’s biggest trade partner.  Retail
sales in rose 0.6 percent in June, data next week may show.  “U.S. economic weakness is likely to filter into Canadian
economic weakness before it filters into other currencies,”
 Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at National
Bank of Canada, said by phone from Toronto. “Canada is lagging
the broader market.”  Canada’s currency depreciated 0.3 percent to 99.01 cents
per  U.S. dollar  yesterday in Toronto, compared with 98.73 cents
on Aug. 12. One Canadian dollar buys $1.010. The loonie headed
for a monthly loss of 3.5 percent, the most since June 2009.  Government bonds  climbed, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note down 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage
point, to 2.30 percent. It touched a record low 2.25 percent on
Aug. 18. The price of the 3.25 percent security maturing in June
2021 increased C$1.37 to C$108.26.  Crude oil for September delivery dropped 3.65 percent to
$82.26 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Raw
materials  including crude account for about half of Canada’s
export revenue.  Growth Questioned  “Crude oil has faltered,” Spitz said. “Growth, not only
in emerging markets but certainty from a developed-world
standpoint, is being questioned. As a result, crude oil is
likely to be sold.”  The economy in the U.S. may expand less than previously
forecast in 2011 and 2012 because of potential “political
paralysis” and fiscal tightening steps, Citigroup Inc. said
Aug. 18 in a report. It cut its 2011 growth forecast to 1.6
percent, from 1.7 percent, and lowered its projection for next
year to 2.1 percent, from 2.7 percent.  “The relative weakening of the Canadian dollar over the
past 10 days is related to the worsening condition of the U.S
economy,” said  Joseph Trevisani , chief market analyst at FX
Solutions Inc. in Saddle River, New Jersey. “Canadian prospects
obviously are closely tied to the U.S.”  European Debt Crisis  European Union officials may push for joint bond sales by
euro-area nations to help contain the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis, according to EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn , putting pressure on  Germany  to drop its
opposition.  Unprecedented bailouts by the trade bloc and the  European
Central Bank  have failed to stamp out debt problems that began
in Greece almost two years ago and rattled markets in AAA rated
France last week.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , testifying yesterday
to the House of Commons Finance Committee in Ottawa, reiterated
that growth will accelerate in the second half of the year,
“led by business investment and household expenditures.”  “The market keyed on the fact that there was less talk of
potential easing, which the market seemed to have priced in,”
Matt Perrier, director of currency sales at Bank of Montreal’s
BMO Capital Markets unit in Toronto. “Hikes aren’t imminent,
but there was no hint of easing.”  Carney said “several downside risks” have been realized
since his July 19 decision to keep the bank’s main lending rate
at 1 percent, including a deepening of  Europe ’s debt crisis and
“the persistent strength of the Canadian dollar.”  ‘Off the Table’  “Governor Carney still expects domestic demand to propel a
bounce in the latter half of the year,” Peter Buchanan and
Emanuella Enenajor, economists at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit, wrote in a research report.
“So, absent a sudden deterioration in global activity exceeding
already downbeat expectations, a rate cut this year is likely
off the table.”  Core inflation , which excludes eight volatile items
including gasoline, quickened last month to a 1.6 percent annual
pace, compared with 1.3 percent in June,  Statistics Canada  said
today. That matched economists’ forecast.  “There’s no doubt there’s a little bit of creeping
inflation in Canada,” Firas Askari, the head currency trader at
Bank of Montreal, said by phone from Toronto, referring to the
inflation data. “Generally it’s better for the Canadian
dollar.”  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told lawmakers today strains
in the U.S. and Europe haven’t derailed a plan to balance the
budget by 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  