-- 
Connecticut Athletic Director Hathaway Retires Amid Department Evaluation

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-08-20T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/connecticut-athletic-director-hathaway-retires-amid-department-evaluation.html
Jeff Hathaway retired after eight
years as director of athletics at the  University of Connecticut .  Hathaway’s department was the subject of an evaluation that
focused on National Collegiate Athletic Association violations,
declining academic performances and falling donations, the
 Associated Press  reported.  Hathaway signed a separation agreement yesterday which
calls for him to remain as a consultant to help with the
transition period until Sept. 15. He then will be paid as much
as $531,717 through Sept. 15, 2013, in addition to other
benefits.  “After 20 years of being associated with UConn, I felt the
time was right for me to pursue new challenges,” Hathaway said
on the team’s website.  Paul McCarthy, senior associate director of athletics, will
take over as director at the Storrs, Connecticut-based school
until an interim replacement is named, said university President
Susan Herbst on the website.  Hathaway was hired as athletic director in 2003, and saw
the school’s men’s and women’s basketball teams win national
championships a year later. Last season, the men’s team won its
third NCAA title, the women’s basketball team reached the Final
Four, the Huskies football team got a Fiesta Bowl bid and the
baseball team went to an NCAA super regional.  Herbst, in her first year as president, called for the
evaluation of the athletic department after the basketball team
was sanctioned for NCAA violations, academic scores among men’s
basketball players declined and donations fell, AP said.  With Hathaway’s retirement, the evaluation was terminated,
according to the separation agreement signed by Hathaway and
Herbst.  No information in the preliminary report will be
disclosed.  “The university has had unprecedented success on the field,
on the court and in the classroom for more than a decade and he
has a great deal to be proud of during his tenure,” Herbst said.
“I join so many others at the university in thanking him for
his service and in wishing him well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  