-- 
German 10-Year Yield Drops to Record on Growth, Debt Concern for Europe

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-08-20T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/german-10-year-yield-drops-to-record-on-growth-debt-concern.html
The German benchmark bund yield
dropped to a record low as concern about global growth and
European officials’ ability to solve the region’s debt crisis
drove investors to seek the safest assets this week.  Greek debt fell for a fourth week amid speculation demands
for collateral will derail the nation’s latest aid package. Bund
yields posted the biggest weekly slide this month as the Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index posted its fourth weekly decline. European
Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said he was
fearful of a period of slow growth and low inflation.  “The panic has still scope to continue,” said Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income strategist at  Bayerische
Landesbank  in Munich. “The market may want to see the 2 percent
level broken, or at least tested. There are no fundamental
drivers on the horizon that would turn around this tendency at
the moment.”  Ten-year bund yields fell 23 basis points this week to 2.11
percent at 4:59 p.m. in  London  yesterday, after dropping to a
record 2.03 percent on Aug. 18. Two-year yields declined 4 basis
points to 0.65 percent.  Finland’s efforts to get collateral in exchange for new
emergency loans to  Greece  highlighted obstacles to approving a
second bailout, driving Greek yields up by the most since May.
The Netherlands,  Slovenia ,  Austria  and Slovakia all expressed a
desire to follow in demanding collateral arrangements before
approving new loans to Europe’s most indebted nation.  Greek Bonds  The Greek 10-year yield climbed 110 basis points to 16.64
percent, while the two-year note yield jumped 353 basis points
to 37.77 percent, breaching 37 percent for the first time since
July 21. The yield on Portuguese notes of a similar maturity
rose 52 basis points to 12.33 percent.  German investor confidence fell for a fifth month,
according to the median forecast of 30 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before the ZEW index on Aug. 23. The Ifo institute’s
business confidence survey may also slip, a separate survey
shows. The data comes amid rising anxiety about global growth
after U.S. reports this week showed jobless claims rose and the
Philadelphia Fed’s measure of manufacturing plunged to the
lowest level since March 2009.  German  government bonds  have handed investors a 2.8 percent
return this month, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
Greek bonds have lost 3.7 percent, pushing their decline this
year to 15 percent. Portuguese securities have lost 16 percent
in 2011, the indexes show. Bunds made 5.9 percent this year,
while Treasuries handed a 7.8 percent gain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 