-- 
Indian Gold Imports May Reach Record 1,000 Tons as Investment Demand Rises

-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 
2011-08-20T06:19:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/gold-imports-by-india-may-reach-a-record-1-000-tons-on-investment-demand.html
Gold imports by  India , the world’s
biggest consumer, may reach a record this year as investors seek
a haven against inflation and volatility in stock markets, a
traders’ group said.  Imports may be between 950 metric tons and 1,000 tons this
year, Prithviraj Kothari, president of the Bombay Bullion
Association, told reporters at a gold conference in Kovalam in
south India. Consumption in India rose to a record 963.1 tons
last year, driving bullion imports to the highest ever at 958
tons, according to the World Gold Council.  Rising Indian imports may help extend a 30 percent rally in
 gold prices  to a record that’s made the precious metal the
second-best performer on the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index
of 19 raw materials this year. Bullion is heading for its 11th
annual gain as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and concern that
the  U.S. economy  may be slowing spur demand for a haven.  “The equity market is volatile and property prices are too
high, driving people toward gold as an investment,” Kothari
said. “The rains have been good so far, so we can expect good
demand for festival season this year.”  Purchases by India, the world’s biggest user, surged 60
percent to 267 tons in the three months ended June 30, from 167
tons a year earlier, the producer-funded council said on Aug.
18. Investment demand jumped 78 percent to 108.5 tons, the
second-highest quarter on record, it said.  Stocks Tumble  Gold for immediate delivery gained $28.30, or 1.6 percent,
to settle at $1,852.10 yesterday, after touching $1,878.15, the
highest ever. Prices gained 6 percent last week, the most since
January 2009, and 14.4 percent this month.  U.S. stocks tumbled yesterday, sending the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index to its biggest four-week loss since March 2009
on concern that the global economy is stalling. Morgan Stanley
economists cut forecasts for global growth this year and said
the U.S. and  Europe  are “dangerously close to recession.”
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said the U.S. economy may expand less than
previously projected in the next two quarters as consumer
sentiment drops and the housing market fails to gain momentum.  “Gold is the currency of the world at the moment, with the
world convinced that the monetary and fiscal authorities are
likely to do nothing right and everything wrong when it comes to
resolving the world’s current fiscal problems,”  Dennis Gartman ,
the economist who correctly forecast 2008’s commodities slump,
said in his daily Gartman Letter yesterday.  Central Banks  Gold may top $2,000 an ounce by the end of this year as
central banks’ purchases and a stalling economy boosts the
appeal of the precious metal as a haven, Kothari said.  “Gold may rise to $2,000 or more by 2011 end if the global
economy remains the same,” he said. “Central banks are also
buying gold, which is positive.”  Holdings in exchange-traded products touched a record on
Aug. 8, and central banks are adding to their reserves for the
first time in a generation.  George Soros , the billionaire
investor, cut his holdings in the SPDR Gold Trust in the second
quarter as prices rallied, while billionaire  John Paulson 
maintained the largest stake, according to regulatory filings
this week.  Global holdings of gold by governments and official
institutions such as the  International Monetary Fund  stood at
30,684 tons last month, according to the World Gold Council.
Central banks added 155 tons valued at about $8.18 billion to
reserves in the first five months of the year and will be net
buyers next year, according to the council.  The precious metal prices may be headed for a drop to
$1,725 an ounce as early as next month, according to Jeffrey
Rhodes, chief executive officer at INTL Commodities LLC.  “It is definitely in a bubble territory and I don’t think
the bubble will burst, but it will deflate a bit,” Rhodes told
the gold conference. “Trees do not grow to heaven.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  