-- 
Libyan Rebels Launch Offensive to Seize Tripoli

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h
-- 
2011-08-21T03:58:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/libya-rebels-start-offensive-to-wrest-capital-tripoli-from-qaddafi-s-grip.html
Libyan rebels said they’ve begun an
offensive to free Tripoli from Muammar Qaddafi’s control five
months after the North Atlantic Treaty Organization started
airstrikes against the leader of the North African nation.  Rebels said they took control of Tajoura, an eastern suburb
of Tripoli, Al Jazeera reported today. Fighting also occurred in
the Souk Al-Jumma market area, it said. NATO aircraft raided
Qaddafi’s Scud missile launchers and residents received  text
messages  urging them to join the rebellion, the network reported.  “The decisive battle to liberate Tripoli started,” Abdel
Hakim Belhaj, a rebel brigade commander, said in an interview
with Al Jazeera. “I would like to tell our families inside the
capital that we are coming and call upon Qaddafi’s troops to
abandon their weapons tonight and to join us to get rid of
Qaddafi and his regime.”  The rebel advance on Tripoli follows weeks of stalemate in
the conflict. Qaddafi, who seized power in the oil-rich country
in a 1969 coup, controls the capital and has told his followers
to keep fighting the rebels and to resist the NATO airstrikes.  “The collaborators with the West are moving from one town
to the next claiming control, but they are not in control, they
are escaping like rats,” Qaddafi said in an audio address
broadcast early today on Libyan television and carried by  Al
Jazeera .  “People are kissing my picture,” Qaddafi said. “I am
their leader, I am their father.”  Libyan People  The rebels don’t represent the Libyan people, Qaddafi said,
adding that the West is waging war to control  Libya ’s oil.  “The subject of surrendering or the white flag is out the
question,” Saif Al-Islam Qaddafi, the leader’s son, said in a
recorded speech on Libyan television aired by  Al Arabiya  today.
“If you want peace we are ready and this is an initiative for
inside and outside” the country.  U.S. State Department spokeswoman Beth Gosselin said the
U.S. has seen press reports that Qaddafi and two sons have fled
the country “but we don’t have any confirmation.” The
department stands by previous statements by Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  “that it’s time for Qaddafi to go,” she said.  Last week, rebels from the besieged city of Misrata
captured the town of Zlitan, 150 kilometers (93 miles) southeast
of Tripoli, overcoming forces led by Qaddafi’s son Khamis and
linking up with other opposition fighters inside the town, their
military council said in an Aug. 19 statement. The rebels also
approached Wadi Kam, a valley 140 kilometers west of Tripoli,
the statement said. Fighting left at least 31 rebels dead and
137 wounded, medical officials in Misrata said.  Rebel Control  “Rebels are now controlling Zlitan, and they are located
near Wadi Kam,” said the council spokesman, Munir Mohammed.
There was no independent confirmation of the reports of the
rebel operations in the valley or in Zlitan.  Rebels also said they have taken Zawiya, west of the
capital, and Ghariyan to the south.  Libyan Oil Minister Omran Abu Kraa headed to  Tunisia  rather
than returning to his country after a trip to  Italy , the state-
run Tunisian news agency TAP said. Shokri Ghanem, Libya’s former
top oil official, defected to join the rebels, according to a
June 1 statement from the rebel Transitional National Council.  The rebels announced on Aug. 19 that they had control of
the  oil refinery  at Zawiya and shut its supply to Tripoli while
almost encircling the outskirts of the capital. Rebels took the
main square in Zawiya, the  Associated Press  reported yesterday.
Qaddafi’s forces remain in the eastern part of the city, the
news service said.  Oil Production  Libya’s biggest refinery, at Ras Lanuf, which can produce
220,000 barrels a day, has stopped operating because of the
fighting. Zawiya’s refinery, which supplies fuel to government
forces, has a capacity of 120,000 barrels of oil a day, almost a
third of Libya’s total.  U.K. warplanes hit the intelligence and police headquarters
in central Tripoli on Aug. 19 as part of the NATO campaign, the
Royal Air Force said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  In a separate attack, British aircraft struck a compound in
the Abu Salim district that is thought to house the main
operations room of the Ministry of Interior’s security forces,
according to the statement.  The  International Organization  of Migration is working to
evacuate foreigners, many of them Egyptians, who want to leave
Tripoli and appealed for funds to carry out the operation,
according to a statement on Aug. 19 from the Geneva-based agency.
The agency has been using ships to evacuate migrants, most of
them North African, from Misrata, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Misrata through the Dubai newsroom at
   barden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 