-- 
Indian Planning Body Sets 9% Economic Growth Target for Five Years to 2017

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-08-20T11:18:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/india-sets-target-of-9-economic-growth-for-five-years-to-2017-singh-says.html
India  aims to accelerate the pace of
economic growth to 9 percent in the five years starting April
2012 to help cut poverty, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said.  The government had asked the  Planning Commission  to
consider a goal of as high as 9.5 percent, Singh said in New
Delhi in an address to cabinet colleagues and members of the
Soviet-style government organization that sets five-year
investment targets. The plan body set the target, he said in
comments sent by e-mail by his office.  “The commission has pointed out that given the
uncertainties in the global economy, and the challenges in the
domestic economy, even a 9 percent target is feasible only if we
can take some difficult decisions,” Singh said.  The  Reserve Bank of India  says a pace of growth that’s
quicker than 8 percent can fan inflation, underscoring the
dilemma policy makers face in raising living standards in  Asia ’s
third-biggest economy, where the World Bank estimates 76 percent
of the 1.2 billion people live on less than $2 a day. India’s
economy has expanded at an average 8.6 percent since 2006,
versus China’s 9.8 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Singh said the government is aiming for a 4 percent growth
in agriculture in the five years as inflationary pressures
“could arise if high levels of growth are attempted” without
increasing domestic production. The central bank has called for
higher investment in farming and factories to increase supplies.  Rate Increases  The  Reserve Bank  has increased its benchmark repurchase
rate 11 times starting March 2010, by a total 3.25 percentage
points to slow growth and tame the fastest price gains among the
so-called BRICS nations.  “We’re expecting 5 percent inflation in the next plan,”
 Montek Singh Ahluwalia , deputy chairman of India’s planning
commission, said at a press conference in New Delhi today. “We
have worked with this figure and don’t forget higher growth will
lead to higher inflation.”  Wholesale prices, the key gauge of inflation in India, rose
9.22 percent in July from a year earlier, and the rate may be
“around 10 percent in August,” Kaushik Basu, the chief
economic adviser in the finance ministry, said Aug. 16. The
wholesale-price index for food articles has climbed in the past
year at an average of 11.89 percent.  Benchmark inflation, measured by consumer prices, is 6.9
percent in  Brazil , 9 percent in  Russia , 6.5 percent in  China  and
5 percent in  South Africa .  Singh’s government plans to invest $1 trillion in ports,
roads and power plants in the five years to March 2017.  ‘Energy Needs’  India’s ability to achieve 9 percent growth “will depend
on meeting our energy needs,” Ahluwalia said. “It will mean
boosting investments in the power sector.”  The availability of power is a key constraint to growth in
India. The theft of electricity lowers the annual income of
Indian distribution companies by $16 billion and cuts output by
1.2 percent in the $1.7 trillion economy, according to the
planning commission and data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  