-- 
Italy Austerity Lacks Ambition, May Spark Downgrade

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-08-22T11:18:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/italy-austerity-lacks-ambition-may-spark-downgrade-nomura-says.html
(Corrects fourth paragraph to show that 2 percent deficit
will be in 2012.)  Italy ’s latest austerity package is
not ambitious enough and may lead to a downgrade of the nation’s
credit rating as soon as next month, Nomura International Plc
said.  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s Cabinet, seeking to stem
surging borrowing costs amid  Europe ’s debt crisis, on Aug. 12
approved 45.5 billion euros ($64 billion) in spending cuts and
tax increases. The country’s second austerity package in a
month, which aims to balance the budget in 2013, includes
incentives to sell local state-run companies and plans to
liberalize the labor market.  “We think the plan is not ambitious enough given the scale
of Italy’s structural challenges,” and proposed labor reforms.
such as opening up professions protected by guilds, risk being
diluted under “lobbying pressure,” Nomura economists including
Lavinia Santovetti in  London  wrote in a note published late
yesterday. The package could give Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s , which have warned they may cut Italy’s credit
rating, “further grounds to downgrade” the nation in
September.  The government will also miss its balanced-budget target
because it’s based on growth assumptions that are “too
optimistic,” the economists said. The deficit may narrow to 2
percent of gross domestic product in 2012, then 0.8 percent the
following year, before showing a 0.5 percent surplus in 2014,
they said.  Nomura revised down its Italian GDP growth forecasts to 0.5
percent and 0.8 percent in 2012 and 2013, from previous
estimates of 0.8 percent and 1.1 percent, respectively. In May,
the government forecast GDP expansion of 1.3 percent and 1.5
percent in those two years, and it’s sticking to those targets,
Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said on Aug. 13.  The austerity package will raise capital-gains taxes and
levies on the highest earners, and reduce funding to ministries
and regional administrations. While already in effect, the plan
must still be approved by parliament, which will begin debating
it at committee level next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  