-- 
Liverpool Beats 10-Man Arsenal 2-0; Newcastle Prevails Over Sunderland 1-0

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-08-20T18:42:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/liverpool-beats-arsenal-2-0-in-premier-league-sunderland-wins.html
Liverpool beat 10-man Arsenal 2-0
for its first away win over the Gunners in English soccer’s
Premier League in over 11 years.  Aaron Ramsey’s own goal and a score from  Luis Suarez  gave
Liverpool the victory at the Emirates Stadium. Both came after
Arsenal’s Emmanuel Frimpong was sent off for a second yellow
card.  Newly promoted Queens Park Rangers beat Everton 1-0 for its
first win, Chelsea came back to beat West Brom 2-1, Newcastle
won 1-0 at Sunderland,  Aston Villa  defeated Blackburn 3-1 and
Swansea and Wigan finished scoreless.  Liverpool scored its first victory in north London since
Feb. 13, 2000.  “I was aware of the fact it was 10-11 years,” Liverpool
defender Jamie Carragher told  Sky Sports . “It’s a difficult
place to come, but I think we deserved it.”  Midfielder Samir Nasri started for Arsenal amid media
reports that he’s close to a transfer to  Manchester City .  Arsenal goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny stopped Andy Carroll’s
header in the first half, while Liverpool’s Pepe Reina dived to
save Frimpong’s long shot. Liverpool’s Martin Kelly shot wide
early in the second half, and Reina blocked  Robin van Persie ’s
shot with his legs.  Frimpong then got his second yellow for a foot-first
challenge on Lucas Leiva in the 70th minute and Liverpool went
in front eight minutes later when a clearing attempt by Miguel,
who replaced injured  Laurent Koscielny  in the first half,
deflected off Ramsey and past Szczesny. Suarez then clinched the
victory in the final minute when he tapped in a pass from  Raul Meireles .  QPR Wins  Arsenal had a player sent off for the second straight
league game after Gervinho was red-carded last week at
Newcastle. Alex Song also missed the game because of suspension.  Tommy Smith scored in the 31st minute as Queens Park
Rangers spoiled Everton’s delayed season opener.  QPR is back in the Premier League for the first time since
1996 after winning the title in the second-tier Championship
last season. Everton was playing its first game after last
week’s match at Tottenham was postponed by the London riots.  Florent Malouda’s goal in the 83rd minute gave Chelsea the
win in manager Andre Villas-Boas's first home game.  Nicolas Anelka 
tied the score early in the second half for the Blues, after
Shane Long had put West Brom in front in the fourth minute.  Ryan Taylor scored off a free kick in the 62nd minute as
Newcastle won at rival Sunderland, which had Phil Bardsley sent
off in the 88th minute for a second yellow card.  Gabriel Agbonlahor , Emile Heskey and Darren Bent scored as
Aston Villa gave new manager Alex McLeish a win in his home
debut. It was Agbonlahor’s 50th goal in the Premier League.  Promoted Swansea earned its first point with the home draw
against Wigan as goalkeeper Michel Vorm stopped Ben Watson’s
penalty kick in the second half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.ne  