-- 
Nationals’ Top Draft Picks Harper Out With Hamstring, Strasburg Rehabs

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-08-20T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/nationals-top-draft-picks-harper-out-with-hamstring-strasburg-rehabs.html
Bryce Harper, the top overall pick
in the 2010 Major League Baseball draft, may miss the remainder
of his minor league season with a hamstring injury, Washington
Nationals manager Davey Johnson said.  Stephen Strasburg , 23, the No. 1 overall selection taken by
the Nationals in 2009, is scheduled to pitch his fourth
rehabilitation game on Aug. 22, almost a year after undergoing
surgery on his elbow.  Harper, 18, who plays for the Double-A Harrisburg Senators,
injured the ligament Aug. 18 while running to third base in the
eighth inning of the team’s 4-2 win at Akron,  Ohio . He was
placed on the seven-day disabled list yesterday, the team said.  “He probably won’t play the rest of the year, as far as I
know,” Johnson said on the team’s website. “There’s only a few
games left. No sense in taking a chance and aggravating it where
it becomes more of a serious injury.”  The regular season ends Sept. 5.  Harper is batting .256 with three home runs and 12 runs
batted in through 37 games with Harrisburg. Earlier in the
season, he hit .318 with 14 home runs and 46 RBIs in 72 games
with the Class-A Hagerstown Suns.  Strasburg will join the Suns for his third rehab appearance
with the minor league team since Aug. 7. He will throw 65
pitches or four innings, Johnson said.  Strasburg also started one game for the Potomac Nationals
in preparation for his return to the major league roster in
September.  The righthander struck out 14 batters in his Major League
debut with  Washington . He had signed a record $15 million, four-
year contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  