-- 
Obama Urges Lawmakers to Put ‘Country Ahead of Party’ on Economic Stimulus

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-20T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/obama-urges-lawmakers-to-avoid-politics-in-push-for-more-jobs.html
President  Barack Obama  called on
lawmakers to put aside partisan differences and work to find
common ground to reduce unemployment and stimulate the economy.  In his weekly radio and Internet address, Obama reiterated
the message he delivered earlier this week to rural communities
in the Midwest on a three-day bus tour and listed a familiar
series of measures to boost growth. Among them are extending the
two-percentage-point payroll tax cut for workers, passing free-
trade agreements and creating a program to build roads and other
infrastructure.  “The only thing holding them back is politics,” Obama
said in his address, recorded in Alpha, Illinois, the last stop
on his trip. “The only thing preventing us from passing these
bills is the refusal by some in Congress to put country ahead of
party. That’s the problem right now. That’s what’s holding this
country back. That’s what we have to change.”  Concerns the global economy is weakening sent U.S. stocks
lower yesterday, capping a fourth straight weekly slump for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The  S&P 500  has fallen 18 percent
from an almost three-year high on April 29 amid fears about
 Europe ’s debt crisis and a global economic slowdown.  Vineyard Vacation  The president arrived on Aug. 18 for a 10-day vacation in
 Martha’s Vineyard , Massachusetts, where his aides say he will be
working on a new plan to create jobs that includes a mix of tax
cuts and infrastructure spending. Obama, who will also offer his
own suggestions for making steeper cuts to the nation’s debt,
will lay out the proposals in a speech shortly after the U.S.
Labor Day holiday, which is Sept. 5.  “We’re coming through a terrible recession; a lot of folks
are still looking for work,” Obama said. “A lot of people are
getting by with smaller paychecks or less money in the cash
register.”  In the weekly Republican address, Ohio Governor  John Kasich 
said the best way to grow the economy is to cut taxes, reduce
spending and trim unnecessary regulations. Kasich, who played
golf with Obama, Vice President  Joe Biden  and House Speaker  John Boehner  in June, said Ohio has seen success in all three areas.  “Make no mistake, our national debt represents a claim on
your future hard-earned tax dollars,” Kasich said. “So when I
hear the president and his allies in  Washington  say we need more
spending and higher taxes, it is a real cause for concern.”  While Ohio’s jobless rate falls just below the national
average of 9.1 percent, the Labor Department reported yesterday
the  unemployment rate  rose in the state to 9.0 percent in July,
up from 8.8 percent the month earlier.  “For all the good we’re trying to do here, our success in
Ohio and in a number of other states will be thwarted if
Washington continues its spending spree and its punitive taxes
on success,” Kasich said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Vineyard Haven,  Massachusetts , at 
   jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  