-- 
Treasury Rally Drives Yields to Record Lows on Slowing Growth, Europe Debt

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-20T04:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/treasury-rally-drives-yields-to-record-low-levels-on-economic-prospects.html
Treasuries surged, pushing yields on
five-, seven- and 10-year notes to historic lows, as investors
sought a refuge on concern U.S. growth is slowing and  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis is getting worse.  Yields on 30-year bonds dropped this week the most since
2008 after the  Federal Reserve  said earlier in August it would
keep borrowing costs unchanged until at least mid-2013 and
 Standard & Poor’s  lowered the top U.S. credit rating. The rally
in bonds indicates Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may signal at a
conference on Aug. 26 in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , that additional
measures to lift the economy are needed.  “Clearly growth continues to be extremely weak,” said
Larry Milstein, managing director of government and agency debt
trading in New York at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income
broker and dealer for institutional investors. “There’s still
concern for what’s going on in Europe. Despite the downgrade by
S&P, investors are looking for safety, and that’s clearly in the
Treasury market.”  Yields on 30-year bonds dropped this week 34 basis points,
or 0.34 percentage point, to 3.39 percent, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.75 percent securities due in
August 2041 increased 6 9/32, or $62.81 per $1,000 face amount,
to 106 23/32.  Benchmark 10-year note yields fell below 2 percent for the
first time, tumbling on Aug. 18 to a record low 1.9735 percent.
Five- and seven-year note yields touched all-time lows of 0.79
percent and 1.31 percent. Two-year note yields were little
changed at 0.19 percent.  U.S. Debt Returns  Treasuries have returned 2.3 percent since S&P lowered the
U.S. credit rating on Aug. 5, and are up 3.4 percent this month.
It’s the biggest gain since  government securities  increased 3.5
percent at the depths of the financial crisis in December 2008,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Treasury
Master Index.  “It’s capitulation that growth will be subpar,” said Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist in New York at Credit Suisse
Group AG, one of 20 primary dealers that trade directly with the
U.S. central bank. “In 2008, there was optimism that we would
have growth by now.”  U.S. stocks tumbled this week, with the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index dropping 4.7 percent in a fourth straight weekly
slump. Gold rose to a record above $1,880 an ounce. The dollar
dropped to post-World War II low against the yen.  Philadelphia Manufacturing  Yields on 10-year notes tumbled for a fourth week as
reports showed manufacturing in the Philadelphia region
unexpectedly contracted in August by the most in more than two
years and consumer prices excluding food and energy rose last
month at the slowest pace since April.  The  U.S. economy  climbed at a 1.3 percent annual rate last
quarter following a 0.4 percent gain in the first three months
of the year that was less than earlier estimated, the Commerce
Department reported last month.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures
price swings in Treasuries based on prices of over-the-counter
options maturing in two- to 30 years, rose to 100.30 yesterday,
up from 87.80 on Aug. 17.  Fixed-income securities from the U.S. to Europe and  Asia 
have returned 1.9 percent on average in August, the most since
gaining 2.4 percent in December 2008, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index.  Bond Yields  Yields as measured by the index, which covers more than
19,000 government, corporate, asset-backed and other types of
securities, have fallen to 2.25 percent, from this year’s high
of 3.03 percent in April.  The Treasury will sell $35 billion in two-year notes, the
same amount of five-year debt and $29 billion of seven-year
securities in auctions beginning Aug. 23. The amounts are the
same as last month’s offerings.  The European Commission said it may present draft
legislation on euro bonds to help contain the debt crisis when
completing a report on the feasibility of common debt sales. The
commission, the EU’s regulatory arm in Brussels, earlier this
year opposed such a step because of German-led objections.  “The report will, if appropriate, be accompanied by
legislative proposals,” EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in a written response to a European
Parliament question.  Treasuries rallied earlier this week after  Germany ’s
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  and  France ’s President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
dismissed calls for the issuance of euro bonds that would allow
borrowing on behalf of all 17 euro states.  European Banks  U.S. regulators are stepping up scrutiny of American
operations of Europe’s largest banks on concern the euro
region’s sovereign-debt crisis may lead to funding problems, the
Wall Street Journal reported Aug. 18. The  New York  Fed has been
holding talks with the lenders and sought information about
their access to funds, said the newspaper, citing people it
didn’t identify.  New York Fed President William C. Dudley said in response
to audience questions after an address in  Newark , New Jersey,
that the central bank always keeps an eye on the performance of
U.S. and foreign banks, not monitoring one group more than the
other.  Bernanke heads this week to Jackson Hole, where he
indicated in August 2010 that the central bank “will do all
that it can” to ensure a continuation of the economic recovery
and that more securities purchases may be warranted if growth
slows. Two months later, the Fed announced a $600 billion second
round of U.S. debt purchases to support the recovery that ended
in June.  ‘At Worst, Mixed’  Dudley said yesterday in remarks in Lyndhurst,  New Jersey ,
that America’s economic performance is “at worst, mixed,” with
negative news offset by loosening credit, firmer retail sales
and stronger bank balance sheets.  The extra yield Treasury investors get to hold 30-year
bonds instead of two-year notes fell this week to 320 basis
points, the narrowest on a closing basis since September 2010.  “Realizing that global economic growth will continue to be
marked down compared to what people were expecting, that we are
seeing no inflation and that central banks are keeping rates
low, investors have every incentive to grab yield wherever they
can, and this means buying further out the Treasury curve,”
said Bulent Baygun, head of interest-rate strategy in New York
at BNP Paribas SA, a primary dealer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  