-- 
Municipal Securities Backed by Federal Road Funds Might Face Rating Cuts

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-08-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/s-p-says-municipal-bonds-backed-by-u-s-road-funds-may-face-ratings-cuts.html
U.S. state and local government
bonds backed by federal highway funds may face rating cuts
because of congressional budget fights,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  Standard & Poor’s said the possible expiration of the
federal gasoline tax after next month or a reduction in U.S.
public-works spending might hurt the ratings of so-called Garvee
bonds. Those bonds raise money from investors and use federal
funds to repay the debt, allowing officials to get an advance on
transportation money expected in future years.  S&P lowered its rating of U.S. credit Aug. 5 after a
congressional battle over raising the debt limit pushed the
government near default and didn’t cut spending as much as
necessary. S&P downgraded more than 11,000 municipal bonds
directly linked to federal spending, such as those paid off with
income from Treasury bonds. Garvees, or grant-anticipation
revenue vehicles, weren’t affected.  “There are several potential risks, that, if realized
alone or in combination, might cause us to reevaluate the
ratings on some or all our Garvee bonds,” S&P said in a report
yesterday. “Diminished funding, a delay in extending the
gasoline tax, or delaying continuation of vital surface road
programs could all have an impact on our ratings.”  A cut might raise the price of transportation projects if
investors demand higher returns for holding the debt. The S&P
downgrade earlier this month hasn’t had that effect because
demand for tax-exempt municipal debt and Treasuries has soared,
depressing yields, as investors opt for safer assets amid market
turmoil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  