-- 
Saudi Stocks Tumble Most in Two Weeks on Global Economic Recovery Concern

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-08-20T13:17:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/saudi-stocks-tumble-most-in-two-weeks-on-global-economic-recovery-concern.html
Saudi Arabian shares fell the most
in two weeks after reports signaled the global economic recovery
is faltering, damping investors’ appetite for riskier assets and
as oil declined.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , or Sabic, the world’s biggest
petrochemicals maker, and  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the kingdom’s largest
publicly traded lender, sank more than 2 percent. The 147-
company  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  lost 2.6 percent, the sharpest
decline since Aug. 6, to 5,931.29, at the 3:30 p.m. close in
 Riyadh , extending this month’s slump to 7.2 percent. All 15
industry groups retreated.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks tumbled 5.9
percent and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 6.3 percent over the
previous two days, the Saudi weekend. Reports showed jobless
claims rose in the world’s largest economy and Philadelphia-area
manufacturing shrank by the most since 2009, while investors
speculated that European banks lack sufficient capital.  “The market is reacting to negative signals coming from
international markets as well as the weak economic performance
in  Europe  and the U.S.,” said Akef Al Tanbouz, head of asset
management at The Investor Securities in Riyadh.  Morgan Stanley cut its forecasts last week for global
growth this year, saying the U.S. and Europe are “dangerously
close to recession.” JPMorgan Chase & Co. lowered estimates for
the U.S., saying it may expand less than previously projected in
the next two quarters as consumer sentiment drops and the
housing market fails to gain momentum. Citigroup Inc. also cut
its projection for the U.S.  Sabic,  Al Rajhi   Oil prices  fell 3.7 percent last week in  New York , capping
an 18 percent slump since July 22, the biggest four-week decline
since October 2008. Saudi Arabia holds 20 percent of the world’s
proven oil reserves.  Sabic retreated 3.6 percent to 93 riyals, its lowest price
since March 5.  National Industrialization Co. (NIC) , the petrochemical
company known as Tasnee, plunged 6 percent to 35.9 riyals. Al
Rajhi declined 2.9 percent to 68 riyals.  “Basically the market is reacting to the plunge in global
equities and commodities,” said Fuad Aghabi, a director at
Ajeej Capital in Riyadh. “Confidence levels are lower because
of the ongoing global volatilities on fears of another U.S.
downturn and European debt woes.”  More than $8 trillion has been erased from the value of
global equities in the past four weeks on concern the U.S. may
enter a recession and as an intensifying European debt crisis
evoked memories of late 2008, when credit markets froze after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  “Concerns around growth in major economies have now firmly
taken hold,” said Asim Bukhtiar, an equity analyst at Riyad
Capital. “Investors may be reluctant to add new positions ahead
of the Eid holidays.”  The Saudi Arabian market will close on Aug. 27 for the Eid
Al Fitr Islamic holiday and trading will resume on Sept. 3.  Saudi Arabia ’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  