-- 
Schaeuble Says Common Bonds Would Create ‘Inflation Community’

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-08-20T16:57:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/schaeuble-says-common-bonds-would-form-inflation-community-in-euro-area.html
The euro region would become an
“inflation community” if member countries decide to sell bonds
jointly without unifying their fiscal policies, German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today.  “Unless there is a single financial policy in the euro
area, there won’t be a single rate of interest” on debt sold,
Schaeuble said at the  finance ministry  in Berlin.  Selling common bonds with a single interest rate would
spark inflation and destabilize the currency as long as the euro
area doesn’t have a single budget policy, Schaeuble said in his
first public engagement since returning from a summer break.  The European Commission said yesterday it may present draft
legislation on joint euro-area bonds after completing a
feasibility report. The commission, the EU’s regulatory arm in
Brussels, earlier this year opposed such a step because of
German-led objections.  Hyperinflation in  Germany  between 1921 and 1923 has
influenced policies at the Bundesbank since it was created in
1949 to safeguard the stability of the deutsche mark. Inflation
in Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy, rose to 2.6 percent in
July, outstripping the ECB’s reference rate of 2 percent.  Chancellor Angela Merkel yesterday told members of her
Christian Democratic Union party that she opposed a
“collectivization” of debt that would leave the bloc’s members
worse off. Merkel’s party faces two state elections in
September, the same month in which her coalition aims to win a
parliament vote for a second round of financial aid to  Greece .  A majority of German voters oppose joint euro-area
borrowing to quell the debt crisis, a poll published Aug. 18
showed. Seventy-six percent of respondents said they were
against euro bonds and 15 percent in favor, according to the
Emnid poll for broadcaster N24.  Germany would face extra costs of 47 billion euros ($67.6
billion) annually if it aligns  interest rates  with nations that
pay more to borrow, the country’s Ifo institute said on Aug. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 