-- 
Strauss-Kahn Prosecutor Seen Dropping Charges

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-08-21T16:06:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/strauss-kahn-s-prosecutor-seen-as-dropping-lie-damaged-sexual-assault-case.html
Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. will ask a judge to dismiss sexual-assault charges
against Dominique Strauss-Kahn because they’d be difficult to
prove beyond a reasonable doubt, former prosecutors predict.  Strauss-Kahn, who resigned as chief of the  International
Monetary Fund  after being arrested and charged with sexual
assault and attempted rape in an alleged May 14 attack on a
housekeeper in his Manhattan hotel suite, will be back in state
court Aug. 23 for a status hearing on his case.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, a onetime French presidential hopeful,
was released from home confinement on July 1 after prosecutors
told the judge in charge of the case that “substantial
credibility issues,” caused by the housekeeper’s lies, had hurt
their case. His $1 million bail and $5 million bond were
returned and his house arrest was ended.  Prosecutors were told in June by Strauss-Kahn’s accuser,
Nafissatou Diallo, 32, that she had lied about a gang rape in
 Guinea  before she sought political asylum in the U.S., and she
changed her story about what she did right after the alleged
attack. Before that, police said, Diallo, 32, a political
refugee from Guinea, had given a credible account of the
incident, and they found forensic evidence supporting her
allegation.  Credibility Paramount  “At the end of the day, what happened in that hotel room -
- specifically, whether a crime was committed -- comes down to
what she says and, therefore, her credibility is paramount,”
said Thomas Curran, a former Manhattan Assistant District
Attorney who is now at Peckar & Abramson in  New York . “If that
credibility is called into question in a fundamental way, the DA
may find that they simply can’t prove their case beyond a
reasonable doubt.”  Diallo may find out Strauss-Kahn’s fate as early as
tomorrow. One of her lawyers, Douglas Wigdor, said today that
prosecutors invited her and her counsel to a meeting to preview
the Aug. 23 hearing. Another of her lawyers,  Kenneth Thompson ,
told the New York Times that he interpreted the invitation, sent
by letter, to mean Vance will drop some or all of the charges.
Thompson didn’t return a call or e-mail today seeking comment on
that remark.  Whatever Vance, 57, does, Curran said that those who call
for him to let a jury decide any ambiguity are misguided.  “Prosecutors are not unfettered in their advocacy,” he said.
“If they don’t believe their case beyond a reasonable doubt,
they have an obligation to step back.”  Consensus: Dismissal  New York attorney Paul Callan is a former prosecutor who
said the consensus among his colleagues was that Vance would
move to dismiss. He said in a case in which a prosecutor decides,
based on newly discovered information, that he’s got severe
problems with his case and that a jury would not convict, a
prosecutor would make a recommendation of dismissal.  The motion could be an oral application before the court,
or a detailed written submission, specifying on the record why a
dismissal is warranted and would likely say the evidence is not
sufficient to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.  “I don’t think Vance is going to say Strauss-Kahn is
innocent,” said Callan, noting a minority of his colleagues
predict Vance will pursue the case.  Michael Obus, the judge in charge of the case, could
dismiss the case from the bench, Callan said.  Benjamin Brafman , Strauss-Kahn’s lawyer, said after the
July 1 hearing at which Diallo’s lies were disclosed that he
thought all of the charges would eventually be dismissed.  Defense Assessment  “We believed from the beginning that this case was not what
it appeared to be,” he said.  Brafman declined to comment on whether the case might be
dismissed at the hearing next week or later.  “The fact of a sexual encounter was and is corroborated by
forensic evidence, and the very brief time period inside the
hotel suite strongly suggested something other than a consensual
act,” prosecutor Joan Illuzzi-Orbon said at the July 1 hearing.  Vance said after the session that he would investigate both
sides in deciding what to do in light of the lies and the
evidence. Vance’s spokeswoman,  Erin Duggan , declined to say
whether any charges would be dismissed or to comment on the pre-
hearing meeting tomorrow with Diallo.  French officials and intellectuals called Vance’s handling
of the case a rush to judgment. Former Culture Minister Jacques
Lang called Strauss-Kahn’s arrest and charging “a lynching.”
French philosopher Bernard-Henri Levy said Vance, the son of a
former U.S. secretary of state, had destroyed Strauss-Kahn’s
presumption of innocence.  Going Public  Thompson issued a series of public statements and
interviews, starting the day of Struss-Kahn’s release, to argue
that no lie his client had told undercut her allegation that she
had been sexually attacked. He said the evidence supporting her
claims includes hospital photos of a vaginal bruise he said she
suffered when Strauss-Kahn grabbed her. The forensic evidence,
he said, is consistent with her account that she spit out semen
as she fled the room after forced oral sex and that her
stockings were ripped during the alleged attack.  Thompson, 45, said Diallo would not be the first victim of
an attack to fabricate something. A former assistant U.S.
Attorney in  Brooklyn , Thompson gave the opening argument in the
city’s most infamous police brutality case. It involved Abner
Louima, a Haitian immigrant, who was sodomized with a wooden
stick inside a police station house.  Louima claimed police officers had said, “It’s Giuliani
time!” as one shoved the stick up his rectum in 1997. The
inference was that such conduct was acceptable during the anti-
crime administration of then-Republican Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani 
compared with his Democratic predecessor David Dinkins. Louima
later admitted police hadn’t said that.  Didn’t Tell Truth  “Abner Louima didn’t tell the complete truth,” Thompson
said. “We didn’t abandon him because the evidence showed that he
was sodomized in the bathroom of the 70th precinct in Brooklyn.
We took that case to trial, and the jury still convicted.”  Zachary Carter, U.S. Attorney in Brooklyn during the Louima
case, said Thompson’s comparison to the Louima case was relevant.  “Ken has personal experience with a very difficult trial
that pivots around a witness who -- we had to concede and I had
to announce -- had lied.”  In the Louima case, the evidence showed the victim had been
ripped apart internally, Carter said.  “You knew something had happened to him, but who did it was
difficult to piece together,” he said  In the Strauss-Kahn case, the physical evidence may not
prove more than a sexual act took place, Curran said.  “The physical evidence alone is not dispositive one way or
the other,” Curran said. “It’s merely ‘helpful,’ particularly if
it corroborates the statements.”  Exactly Right Thing  Vance did “exactly the right thing” in disclosing the
accuser’s lies to the defense and the judge in charge of the
case last month, Carter said.  “But that doesn’t determine whether the prosecution should
go forward,” he said.  One critical decision for Vance is whether his main
witness’s credibility has become so damaged with her admitted
lies that no jury will decide that Strauss-Kahn, who has pleaded
not guilty, is guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.  Those lies include declaring a friend’s child as a
dependent on her tax returns. She also said she misrepresented
her income in order to maintain her housing, prosecutors told
defense lawyers.  Prosecutors also disclosed that she had changed her story
during the questioning on June 28th about what happened
immediately after the incident in the Sofitel on West 44th Street,
where the alleged attack occurred.  Grand Jury Testimony  Diallo told the grand jury she had fled to a main hallway
after the attack, then later said she went to clean a nearby
room before returning to Strauss-Kahn’s suite -- all before
reporting
the incident, according to a letter prosecutors sent Strauss-
Kahn lawyers.  Diallo, whose identity was initially withheld, went public
with her case in magazine and television interviews and then
sued Strauss-Kahn this month, seeking unspecified damages.  She also had to deal with a New York Times report that
quoted her as saying, according to a translation summary of her
native Fulani, to a friend imprisoned in  Arizona  on drug charges:
“Don’t worry. This guy has money. I know what I’m doing.”  “Merged Together”  After Diallo, Thompson and prosecutors listened to the
taped conversation in its original on July 27, Thompson told
reporters her comments had been “merged together” and
mischaracterized.  Thompson has gone on the offensive ever since the July 1
hearing about her credibility.  “The victim from Day One has described a violent sexual
assault that  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  committed against her,”
Thompson told reporters as Strauss-Kahn was being released. “And
she never once changed a single thing about that account.”  He asked Vance in a July 6 letter to recuse himself from
the case, accusing prosecutors of “repeated and damaging leaks
to the media” that undermined the case. He sued News Corp.’s New
York Post unit on Diallo’s behalf after it published a story
saying that she was a prostitute.  After first calling such tactics “lunacy” because they
might provide the defense with statements Strauss-Kahn could use
against Diallo, New York lawyer Ed Hayes reconsidered and said
Thompson may have had no choice.  “What he did under the current circumstances drew attention
to the case, put it under racial and class circumstances and
brought a lawsuit at a time it hurts the criminal case because
it may be the only time he thought he could do it,” Hayes said.  “A Goner”  Thompson may have hurt the criminal case because he already
thought “it was a goner,” Hayes said.  Thompson’s tactics have created a tension between him and
prosecutors, several defense lawyers said.  “There’s clearly been a parting of the ways between the
complaining witness and the district attorney’s office,” Curran
said.  In highlighting a possible further strain between the two
camps, the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that New York
prosecutors were investigating whether Thompson said in June
that he would derail the criminal case if he came to terms with
Strauss-Kahn in a civil settlement.  “The allegation against me is absolutely false,” Thompson
said in an e-mail. “It’s another baseless attack against Ms.
Diallo and her attorneys and designed to distract people from
the fact that Dominique Strauss-Kahn violently attacked and
sexually assaulted an innocent woman inside that hotel room.”  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-02526, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in state supreme court in Manhattan
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  