-- 
U.K. Gilt Yields Sink to Record Low on Global Economy Concerns

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   E d   B a l l a r d
-- 
2011-08-20T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/u-k-gilt-yields-sink-to-record-low-on-global-economy-concerns.html
Gilts rose for a fourth straight
week, sending 10-year yields to a record low, as dissident  Bank
of England  policy makers abandoned their push for higher
borrowing costs amid signs the global economy is faltering.  Two-year note yields also fell this week after Monetary
Policy Committee members  Spencer Dale  and  Martin Weale  abandoned
calls to raise the benchmark rate from a record low 0.5 percent,
according to minutes of the central bank’s most-recent policy
meeting released Aug. 17. Stocks slumped worldwide on concern
the recovery is stalling and as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens
to spread. Sterling appreciated against all its 16 major peers
monitored by Bloomberg.  “The critical point for the gilt market has been the shift
in the MPC,” said Adam McCormack, head of gilt sales at
Barclays Plc in  London . “There’s more speculation now that more
people might join  Adam Posen  in voting for further quantitative
easing.”  Yields on 10-year gilts sank 15 basis points this week to
2.38 percent at 4:31 p.m. yesterday in London, reaching a record
low 2.273 percent on Aug. 18, the least since Bloomberg began
compiling the data in 1989. Two-year note yields fell six basis
points in the week to 0.58 percent.  Ten-year gilt yields have slid more than 100 basis points,
or 1 percentage point, this year as concern the euro-area debt
crisis is spreading stoked demand for the comparative safety of
U.K. government bonds. Yields have also fallen as the deepest
government spending cuts since World War II crimped prospects
for economic growth in Britain, prompting investors to push back
expectations for higher  interest rates .  Retail Sales  Separate reports from the  Office for National Statistics 
this week showed U.K. retail sales rose less than forecast last
month while unemployment claims in Britain rose the most since
May 2009, adding to evidence the economic outlook is worsening.  Central bank Governor Mervyn King said Aug. 16 that turmoil
in the euro region and world stock markets poses a risk to the
U.K. economy and could push inflation too far below the 2
percent target. King made the comments in a letter to Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  after inflation accelerated more
than economists forecast to 4.4 percent in July.  Investors are now betting the U.K. central bank will
refrain from lifting its key rate until after July next year,
data from Tullett Prebon Plc on forward contracts for the
sterling overnight interbank average, or Sonia, show. As
recently as February, the data indicated traders were betting on
a rate increase this May.  Consumer Confidence  The pound gained 0.7 percent against the euro this week to
86.97 pence. Britain’s currency rose 1.6 percent versus the
dollar to $1.6542, snapping two weeks of declines.  Sterling has strengthened 1.2 percent in the past week
against a basket of nine other developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  A report on Aug. 25 is expected to show consumer confidence
among Britons fell for a second consecutive month in July,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of stocks posted a fourth consecutive
weekly loss as concern that global economy is slowing encouraged
investors to dump higher-yielding assets in favor of the
relative safety of government debt. Morgan Stanley cut its
forecast for global economic growth this year to 3.9 percent,
down from an earlier estimate of 4.2 percent, according to an
Aug. 18 report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Ballard in London at 
 eballard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  