-- 
Huntsman Says Republican Rivals Showed ‘Zero Leadership’ on Debt

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-08-20T17:37:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/huntsman-says-republican-white-house-rivals-showed-no-leadership-on-debt.html
Republican presidential candidate
and former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. criticized his rivals
for the nomination, saying they showed “zero leadership”
during the debate over raising the U.S. debt ceiling.  “I wouldn’t necessarily trust any of my opponents right
now,” Huntsman said in an interview on ABC’s “This Week”
program. “There was zero leadership on display” from “some of
my Republican opponents who basically, I think, recommended
something that would have been catastrophic for this economy,”
he said.  Huntsman called House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, “a pretty courageous guy,” according to a
transcript of the program, scheduled to air tomorrow. “I stood
alone” in supporting Boehner’s deficit-reduction plan, which
cleared the House before being defeated in the Democratic-
controlled Senate, he said.  Minnesota Congresswoman Michele Bachmann and Texas
Congressman  Ron Paul , the winner and runner-up in the Aug. 13
Iowa straw poll, voted against raising the U.S. debt ceiling.
Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , who leads the 2012
Republican presidential field in national polls and fundraising,
said in an Aug. 1 statement that he opposed the compromise to
raise the U.S. debt limit by at least $2.1 trillion and slash
 government spending  by $2.4 trillion or more.  Huntsman, who served as President Barack Obama’s ambassador
to  China , received less than 1 percent of the vote in the straw
poll. He refrained from actively campaigning in Iowa, citing his
opposition to subsidies for corn-based ethanol as too much of a
political hurdle in a state with a large agriculture base.  Anti-Science Party  Huntsman said his party will lose next year’s presidential
election should it nominate a candidate who rejects evolution
and climate change.  “The minute that the  Republican Party  becomes the anti-
science party, we have a huge problem,” he said. “It’s not a
winning formula.”  Texas Governor  Rick Perry , who began his bid for the
Republican presidential nomination on Aug. 13, has expressed
skepticism that human activities contribute to  climate change .  “We’re seeing almost weekly, or even daily, scientists
that are coming forward and questioning the original idea that
man-made global warming is what is causing the climate to
change,” he said while campaigning in New Hampshire on Aug. 17.  A May report by the National Research Council of the
National Academies said that a “preponderance” of scientific
evidence shows that the release of carbon dioxide and other
heat-trapping gases is the “most likely” cause of the planet’s
warming trend during the past 50 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  