-- 
Van Rompuy Opposes Common Bonds Until Euro-Region Budgets Converge Further

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-08-20T09:55:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/van-rompuy-opposes-issuing-common-euro-bonds-says-markets-overreacting.html
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  ruled out issuing common bonds as a cure for the debt
crisis, saying any joint borrowing should wait until European
economies and budgets are better aligned.  With three countries drawing financial aid and national
debts ranging from 6.6 percent of gross domestic product in
Estonia to 142.8 percent in Greece, this is the wrong time to
set up a single borrowing agency, Van Rompuy, 63, said in an
interview broadcast on Belgium’s  RTBF radio  today.  “We could have euro bonds on the day when there is genuine
budgetary convergence, the day when everyone is in balance or
virtually in balance,” he said.  Pledges of 365 billion euros ($526 billion) in official
loans to  Greece , Portugal and Ireland, and 96 billion euros of
bond purchases by the  European Central Bank  have failed fix the
finances of those countries or prevent speculative attacks on
Spain and Italy.  Van Rompuy sided with Germany and  France  in damping down
the euro bond debate, saying the answer to the crisis lies in
executing plans like last month’s decision to give more
flexibility to the bloc’s 440 billion-euro rescue fund. He urged
governments to quickly ratify the plan so the fund can buy bonds
in the secondary market.  French Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  wrote in  Le Figaro 
newspaper today that common issuance would “increase the cost
of servicing French debt and might even put its  credit rating  in
doubt.”  Van Rompuy said unwarranted panic sparked the selloff of
Italian and Spanish bonds that led the European Central Bank to
intervene earlier this month. He praised both countries for
enacting further budget cuts.  Swiss Haven  “Markets aren’t always right,” Van Rompuy said. He cited
purchases of the Swiss franc, which jumped 14 percent in value
this year, as an example of investors overreacting to European
debt concerns and the U.S. credit downgrade by  Standard &
Poor’s .  “If the Swiss franc becomes a safe haven currency, it’s
because something fundamentally disproportionate is going on in
the world’s markets,” he said.  While European growth is slowing from the first half of
this year, the continent enjoys healthy economic fundamentals
and will escape recession, he said.  Van Rompuy  said a six-part package of laws to strengthen
 Europe ’s rules on national deficits is likely to be passed next
month.  Europe’s next move will be to streamline its communications
policy to defuse public disagreements between governments that
undermine market confidence, Van Rompuy said, previewing
proposals he will make at an October summit.  ‘ Crisis Management ’  “I will propose some ideas to improve both communications
and crisis management,” he said. “We have to try to give the
same message. It’s inevitable that there will be several voices.
But everyone has to convey the same message.”  Europe continues to promote a financial-transaction tax,
though there are doubts that it would work in the 17-nation euro
area if it isn’t imposed globally, Van Rompuy said. Britain and
Sweden last year led efforts to prevent such a tax from covering
the 27-nation EU.  Van Rompuy, a former Belgian prime minister, said breakup
scenarios for  Belgium  and the euro zone “are really two
fictions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  