-- 
Verizon Says Striking Employees to Return to Work This Week

-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-08-21T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/verizon-says-striking-union-employees-to-return-to-work-under-old-contract.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  said
45,000 striking workers in the northeast U.S. will begin
returning to the job tomorrow night, while the two sides keep
negotiating what the company called “major issues.”  Benefits, work flexibility and  job security  are among the
matters that still need to be negotiated, Verizon said in a
statement yesterday. Contracts that expired on Aug. 6 will
remain in effect for an undefined period, Verizon said.  Facing a decline in its traditional landline phone
business, Verizon has been seeking work-rule changes and
employee contributions to health-insurance premiums. Workers
have said they shouldn’t have to make substantial concessions as
earnings rise and executive pay remains healthy.  “This is going to take time, that’s why there was no set
deadline,” said  Peter Thonis , a spokesman for Verizon, in a
telephone interview. “We will be meeting again very soon. There
is a set schedule for this.”  He didn’t know when the company and unions would meet
again.  Jim Spellane, a spokesman for the International Brotherhood
of Electrical Workers, said in an interview that the agreement
“lowers the temperature and helps create an atmosphere for
serious bargaining.”  Walkout  Candice Johnson, a spokeswoman for the Communications
Workers of America, said the talks will resume this week.  New York-based Verizon said yesterday the two sides have
made progress on some local and regional issues, without
elaborating. The talks began in July.  The resolution will end a walkout begun Aug. 7 by employees
from Verizon’s landline business in nine Northeastern states and
the  District of Columbia . The labor action was the largest since
73,000 General Motors Co. workers went on strike for two days in
2007, said Jeffrey Keefe, professor of labor and employment
relations at  Rutgers University  in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey .  The employees are represented by the Communications Workers
of America and the International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers.  In an Aug. 7 statement, Verizon Chief Executive Officer
Lowell McAdam said the company needed concessions from unions
because of the division’s customer losses and eroding
profitability. He also cited competition from cable-TV providers
that don’t have similar “contract constraints, enabling them to
be more nimble and flexible meeting customer needs.”  Growth in Wireless  Verizon’s competitors also include  AT&T Inc. (T) , the biggest
U.S. phone carrier and second-largest wireless operator. AT&T
has proposed acquiring Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA,
allowing it to surpass  Verizon Wireless  as the No. 1 U.S. mobile
carrier.  Verizon’s revenue and profit fell last year as declines in
the landline business offset growth in wireless. The number of
fixed lines, including residential and business customers, slid
8.2 percent to 26 million at the end of last year, extending
declines since 2003. During the same period, wireless
subscribers more than doubled to 94.1 million.  The company’s wireless business has been largely unaffected
by the strike.  Verizon shares fell 36 cents to $34.71 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading on Aug. 19. The stock has declined
less than 1 percent since the work stoppage began.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  