-- 
Two Murders Among Crimes in UK Riots: Police

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-08-21T11:49:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/two-murders-among-crimes-in-uk-riots-police.html
A total of 3,296 crimes including
two murders were committed in  London  during rioting that rocked
the city from Aug. 6 to Aug. 9.  Offenses included 1,101 burglaries, 399 cases of criminal
damage to vehicles and 310 thefts of personal property, London’s
 Metropolitan Police Service  said in a statement today. The 1,875
arrests made in the U.K. capital so far include 396 juveniles,
the release said. More than 3,300 people have been held across
the U.K., according to the government’s  Directgov  website.  “We have brought a significant number of people to
justice,” Commander Simon Foy, head of Homicide and Serious
Crime Command, said in the statement, adding that the
“disorder” affected 22 of London’s 32 boroughs. “There are
many more people who must answer for their actions.”  The worst wave of violence since 1980s forced the
authorities to deploy 16,000 police in the streets of London by
Aug. 9 to prevent a fourth night of rioting. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  returned early from his Italian vacation and
Parliament was recalled to hold an emergency session on Aug. 11.  Sky News yesterday broadcast pictures of a rioter in
Birmingham shooting at a line of officers and said 11 shots had
been fired at a police helicopter during the disturbances. There
was “evidence of several gunmen,” West Midlands Police Chief
Constable Chris Sims said in broadcast remarks.  Divide Over Crackdown  As many as 30,000 people may have been involved in looting,
arson and criminal damage during London riots, with between five
and 10 people linked on average with each crime, the Sunday
Times said today, citing unidentified police officials.  The response to the violence has revealed splits in the
governing coalition. Cameron and other Conservative ministers
favor severe penalties for the perpetrators, while Liberal
Democrats have complained about the harshness of the crackdown.  Arrests connected with the riots have pushed up the number
of people behind bars in England and Wales by more than 100 a
day in the past week, to a record 86,654 on Aug. 19, the
Guardian reported,  citing  the Ministry of Justice.  There will probably be a large number of successful
appeals, given the severity of the sentences being handed down,
the  Daily Telegraph  said, citing lawyers and legal experts. Some
judges have been told not to order pre-sentencing reports in
rioting cases, the newspaper reported, without saying where it
got the information.  Appeal Prospects  Lord Carlile, president of the Howard League for Penal
Reform, told the newspaper that bypassing the reports could lead
to successful appeals or judicial review. “This is not hand-
wringing liberal stuff, it is the practical side of
sentencing,” he said, according to the Telegraph.  Ursula Nevin, a 24-year-old mother of two, became the first
person jailed in connection with rioting to be freed on appeal
and given community service, the Telegraph said. Nevin was
sentenced to five months for accepting a pair of shorts her
lodger stole during rioting in Manchester, the paper said.  The Metropolitan Police have responded to the riots with
Operation Withern, which involves officers from the Specialist
Crime Directorate working with detectives, uniformed police and
staff from other branches of the service, the release said.  The specialist directorate will handle some of the major
incidents, while local police will pursue people responsible for
rioting in their areas, according to the statement. The police
have about 20,000 hours of closed-circuit television pictures to
view, a total that will probably increase, the statement said.  Offenses included 162 cases of arson, 80 assaults with
injury and 32 common assaults in London, the police said. So
far, 1,073 people have been charged in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  