-- 
Yen Gains to Postwar Record Versus Dollar as Tumult Spurs Demand for Haven

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-20T04:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/yen-strengthens-to-postwar-record-versus-dollar-amid-global-growth-concern.html
The yen reached a post-World War II
high versus the dollar, gaining for a second week and spurring
speculation the  Bank of Japan  will move to weaken the currency
as concern global growth is faltering fuels demand for refuge.  The euro had the biggest weekly increase against the dollar
in a month as European officials boosted efforts to curb the
region’s debt crisis. The dollar dropped against the yen amid
speculation Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may say
next week at a  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , conference that added
measures may be needed to support the economy. The Swiss franc
fell on bets the central bank would move to weaken it.  “There seems to be more pressure for safety than anything
else,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in  New York . “With all these
uncertainties, there’s going to be pressure on the downside for
dollar-yen.”  The Japanese currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 76.55 per
dollar in New York, from 76.71 on Aug. 12, touching a postwar
high of 75.95 yesterday. The euro rose 1.1 percent to $1.4397,
from $1.4248, and gained 0.8 percent to 110.20 yen, from 109.30.
The franc fell 0.9 percent to 78.51 centimes per dollar and
dropped 2 percent to 1.1303 per euro.  Global equities plunged, and gold rose to a record above
$1,880 an ounce. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 4.7
percent in its fourth straight weekly loss, and yields on U.S.
Treasury 10-, seven- and five-year notes fell to record lows.  ‘Dangerously Close’  The U.S. and  Europe  are “dangerously close to recession,”
Morgan Stanley analysts wrote in a report Aug. 18. “Recent
policy errors, especially Europe’s slow and insufficient
response to the sovereign crisis and the drama around lifting
the U.S. debt ceiling, have weighed down on financial markets,”
the report said.  The firm cut its global growth forecast to 3.9 percent this
year, from 4.2 percent. Citigroup lowered its 2011 U.S. growth
estimate to 1.6 percent, from 1.7 percent.  The yen has climbed beyond the level that prompted the Bank
of Japan to sell it on Aug. 4 to curb its gains. A stronger yen
cuts the value of overseas income at Japanese companies.  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  signaled early
yesterday, before the yen reached the postwar record, he’s ready
to make another “surprise” intervention in markets. Noda said
he would “keep monitoring markets carefully.”  The yen gained 5.6 percent over the past three months,
making it the second-best performer among 10 major-economy
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes. The franc, the biggest gainer, climbed 12 percent,
while the dollar was down 1.7 percent.  Franc Drops  The franc fell 3.4 percent versus the euro and 2.3 percent
against the dollar in the first two days of the week on bets the
 Swiss National Bank  would boost its efforts to stem the
currency’s strength. It pared losses after the SNB refrained
from setting a target or pegging the franc to the euro.  The Swiss currency and the yen tend to gain during economic
and financial turmoil because  Japan ’s and Switzerland’s current
account surpluses makes them less reliant on foreign capital.  Speculation increased this week that U.S. regulators are
stepping up scrutiny of local operations for Europe’s largest
banks on concern that the sovereign debt crisis may lead to
funding problems. New York Fed President William C. Dudley said
the central bank always keeps an eye on the performance of U.S.
and foreign banks, not monitoring one group more than the other.  Jackson Hole  Bernanke may announce policy intentions at the Kansas City
Fed’s economic conference in Jackson Hole on Aug. 26, according
to Marc Faber, publisher of the Gloom, Boom & Doom report, on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” yesterday with Ken
Prewitt and  Tom Keene . The Fed will extend its debt-purchasing,
he said.  Last year at the event Bernanke foreshadowed a second round
of bond purchases. The central bank bought $600 billion in
Treasuries from November through June.  The Fed said Aug. 9 U.S. economic growth was “considerably
slower” than anticipated and it’s prepared to use a range of
policy tools to boost the economy. It pledged to keep  interest
rates  near zero at least until mid-2013.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.1 percent annual pace from
April through June, lower than an initial estimate of 1.3
percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey before the Commerce Department reports the data Aug. 26.  The euro region’s gross domestic product expanded 0.2
percent in the second quarter, the European Union’s statistics
office said. Even  Germany , which has fueled growth in the
region, saw its economy expand just 0.1 percent.  ‘Global Slowdown’  “The global slowdown led by that in the U.S. and the
European sovereign-debt crisis have been weighing on global
stock markets and contributing to yen strength,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group in
Greenwich,  Connecticut .  The 17-nation currency gained versus the dollar as the
 European Central Bank  continued buying  government bonds  to keep
the sovereign-debt crisis from spreading. It said Aug. 15 it
spent a record 22 billion euros ($31.7 billion) last week to
purchase Italian and Spanish securities.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said yesterday legislation may be drafted on joint issuance of
euro bonds. The concept was rejected earlier this week by
Germany and  France , with  French President Nicolas Sarkozy
calling it a final step in European integration.  Sarkozy and German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Aug. 16
they’ll instead propose measures to help strengthen the euro,
including plans for all euro-area states to demonstrate a
“verifiable commitment” to anchoring debt limits in national
law and a euro council headed by EU President Herman van Rompuy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  