-- 
Pakistan’s Gilani Tells Political Parties to Help Restore Peace in Karachi

-- B y   P a u l   T i g h e   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 
2011-08-21T19:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-20/zardari-says-criminals-responsible-for-killings-in-karachi-will-be-caught.html
Pakistan’s Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  told political parties to help police and
paramilitary forces stop daily gang and sectarian killings in
Karachi, the country’s financial capital.  Gilani made his appeal at the weekend after President Asif Ali Zardari telephoned the leader of the Muttahida Qaumi
Movement, the main party in the city, to stress the need to work
together to fight lawlessness, the state-run  Associated Press of
Pakistan  reported.  The government is “deeply concerned about the law and
order situation in Karachi” and is taking “stringent
measures” to restore control, Interior Minister Rehman Malik
said Aug. 20, APP reported.  More than 1,500 people have been killed in Karachi since
January, according to Geo television. The city of 18 million
people, whose banks and businesses contribute more than 70
percent of the country’s tax revenue, has for years witnessed
surges in violence involving members of rival political parties,
ethnic communities or criminal groups.  “We are collecting information against the elements
involved in sabotaging peace in Karachi and action will be taken
without any discrimination,” APP cited Malik as  saying  in a
television interview yesterday. Government officials have held
meetings with law enforcement agencies to improve security, he
said.  Emergency Meeting  Zardari on Aug. 19 held an emergency meeting in the capital,
Islamabad, with top officials from  Sindh province , including the
Sindh’s Chief Minister Syed Qaim Ali Shah, Home Minister Manzoor
Wassan and other senior administration officials, APP said. The
president said the authorities will target all criminals
responsible for the surge in killings.  Karachi is a volatile mix of ethnic groups, including Urdu-
speakers who originally emigrated from  India  after partition in
1947 and who largely support the MQM, and ethnic Pashtuns from
Pakistan’s northwest, represented by the  Awami National Party .  In 2008 elections, the MQM won 17 of Karachi’s 20 seats in
the National Assembly,  Pakistan ’s parliament. Chief Minister
Shah is a member of Zardari’s  Pakistan Peoples Party .  Zardari made his telephone call on Aug. 19 to MQM leader
Altaf Hussain in  London , APP said.  The  Edhi Foundation , the country’s biggest rescue service,
has had more than 85 bodies brought to the organization’s
mortuary, the largest in Karachi, since Aug. 17, spokesman Anwar
Kazmi said by phone last week. Four police officers were killed
and 25 injured when their bus was ambushed by gunmen in the
Korangi area of the city, Pakistan’s Dawn newspaper reported
yesterday, citing police.  Stock Index  Pakistan’s benchmark stock index fell 2.2 percent to
10,879.82, the lowest in more than nine months on Aug. 19. The
rupee fell to a record low, closing down 0.2 percent at 86.8500
per dollar.  “There is fear among investors because of the continuing
killings,” said Umer Bin Ayaz, an equities trader at  JS Global
Capital Ltd. (JSGCL)  in Karachi. “There is no support either because
all regional markets are also down.”  As well as being home to stock markets and the central bank,
the Arabian Sea port serves as the headquarters in Pakistan for
companies such as Citigroup Inc. and Unilever Plc.  Pakistan’s leading trade organization has called for the
army to be deployed to curb the violence.  “There is no other way left, it is quite clear the
situation is not under control,” Khalid Tawab, vice president
of the Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industry,
said by telephone last week. “If this persists, businesses and
factories in Karachi will have to be shut down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  