-- ‘Dumb Money’ Is Staring Most of Us in the Face
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2012-10-03T22:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/-dumb-money-is-staring-most-of-us-in-the-face.html
Financial pros have a long history of
sneering at mom and pop investors as “the dumb money,” all the
while cashing in on commissions each time a sucker sells at the
bottom or buys at the top.  Now the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has made it
official: The investing public doesn’t know what it is doing.  It took an act of Congress and 182 pages for the SEC in
August to  publish  its “Study Regarding Financial Literacy Among
Investors,” an exercise mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010.
The study’s grim statistics showed that about half the investing
public can’t read a stock trade confirmation and two-thirds
can’t figure out how much their adviser would pocket on the sale
of mutual-fund shares. After being shown documents for an
account in which a customer’s broker used an outside custodial
firm to hold the securities and issue the account statements,
only a quarter could identify the custodian. There is more where
that came from, but you get the idea.  Consider the profile of the 4,800 investors surveyed for
the report, which concluded that they “lack basic financial
literacy.” More than half had full-time jobs, 11 percent had
part-time jobs, 70 percent had at least a two-year college
degree and 63 percent had annual income of more than $50,000.
We’re not talking about  Mitt Romney ’s indolent moochers here.
The dumb money could be your neighbor. Or you.  Getting Taken  Of course, there’s ample evidence by now that you didn’t
have to be Uncle Charlie in the nursing home to wind up parking
your money with  Bernard Madoff , or to sign up for designed-to-
fail collateralized-debt  obligations  from Goldman Sachs. Smart
money can be clueless, too.  For the moment though, let’s stick with investors who don’t
work on  Wall Street  and don’t have an inkling that the
worthwhile initial public offering is the one they will never be
able to buy. So we have this new information about the public’s
failure to understand finance. What do we do with it?  The report has been a jumping-off point for a lot of feel-
good proposals that, sadly, are dead on arrival. The SEC says it
got “many comment letters” advocating a “comprehensive
financial literacy program in the  United States  that starts in
elementary school.” Hey, a new education program sounds great.
But try that one out on your strapped local school principal.  And maybe ask those principals how just plain old, non-
financial literacy is working out. On Sept. 24, the  College
Board  said  reading scores  on the SAT were the lowest in four
decades. How do you teach people to read prospectuses when they
have trouble reading at all?  The weird thing about the SEC’s comprehensive look at the
failings of U.S. investors is that the effort comes even as a
new law is about to unleash a flood of fresh hazards on the
public. On April 5, President  Barack Obama  signed the Jumpstart
Our Business Startups Act, a stunning piece of deregulation that
will relax disclosure rules for some public companies and allow
Internet stock offerings through what is known as crowd-funding.  So even as we learn that investors need more education
about basics, we  set them up  as prey for a whole new genre of
rip-offs.  There are some solutions here, and the quickest fixes are
the ones that make investors smarter about fraud, not about
computation of mutual fund fees:  Brokerages should be required to give customers a copy of
an adviser’s regulatory record before they can open an account.
Along with that, firms should reveal the number of times a
broker has had a case expunged from his or her record (I’d look
for a new broker if that number was more than one) and send a
recap of every bankruptcy filing, every sanction by a
professional organization and every lawsuit filed against the
broker in state or federal court.  Head Scratching  I was heartened to see that 37 percent of the investors in
the SEC study said they actually checked a broker’s records, but
it was a head-scratcher that 21 percent didn’t consider
“allegations or findings of serious misconduct” to be
important. Get these facts under customers’ noses and make it
hard for them to avoid considering them.  Firms also should explain in writing the terms of the
relationship to new customers. I don’t mean boilerplate
disclosures about the odious policy of mandatory arbitration
that lets firms avoid court. There should be a statement in
plain English saying what the firm promises. “Dear Mrs. Smith:
We may say in our glossy ads that you are a valued customer, but
we don’t have to put your interest before ours, and if you want
to sue us, you will have to prove that we sold you something
that wasn’t suitable, which is a lot harder than proving we
weren’t working in your best interest.” OK, so the wording
could be more delicate, but either way investors should get the
broker’s commitment in writing.  Lazy investors (like the one who told the SEC, “If you
can’t put it on a 4 x 5 card, I don’t want to deal with it”)
should at least take smart shortcuts: First, go through the
indecipherable documents your broker sent you and read the
footnotes, which will at the very least arm you with material
for your next cocktail party. After that, look for these words
or terms: “certain proceedings,” “conflict of interest,”
“fraud,” “Wells notice,” “litigation,” “Securities and
Exchange Commission,” “cease and desist” and “not FDIC.”
You will find all of them in the sections the smart money hopes
you never read.  ( Susan Antilla , who has written about Wall Street and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From the
Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial
companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  pastors who cross the
political line ;  Caroline Baum  on  Ben Bernanke ’s  forgetting
Milton Friedman’s lessons;   Ezra Klein  on the broad consensus
behind  narrow partisan fronts ; Jonathan Mahler on  Washington ’s
annoying  obsession with the Nationals ; Cass R. Sunstein on  why
regulators are listening to you ;  Enrique Krauze  on hopes for a
 miracle in Venezuela .  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Antilla at   santilla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 