-- T-Mobile-MetroPCS Merger to Probably Get U.S. Approval
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-10-03T15:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/t-mobile-metropcs-merger-to-probably-get-u-s-approval.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s proposal to buy
 MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  will probably win approval from
U.S. regulators who are wary of the market power wielded by
industry leaders Verizon Wireless and  AT&T Inc. (T)   “There would be a regulatory hope this would strengthen
both competitors versus the two big guys,”  David Kaut , a
Washington-based analyst for Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a
telephone interview.  Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom today announced it will pay
$1.5 billion to shareholders of MetroPCS, the fifth-largest U.S.
mobile provider, and merge the company with Deutsche Telekom’s
T-Mobile USA Inc. unit, the fourth-largest carrier.  The new company would have 42.5 million subscribers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg -- or about
11.7 percent of the U.S. wireless market, compared with a
58.5 percent combined share for No. 1 Verizon and No. 2 AT&T.
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-largest provider, has 15.2
percent  The deal, subject to review by the U.S. Federal
Communications Commission and Justice Department, probably will
be approved because it doesn’t pose threats to competition like
those raised by AT&T’s failed bid for T-Mobile last year, Kaut
said.  “To the extent this acquisition helps strengthen T-
Mobile’s position and preserve a four-firm national market, it’s
pro-competitive,” said Allen Grunes, an antitrust lawyer with
Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck LLP in Washington. “I’d expect
the  Justice Department  to look at local markets and then close
the investigation and let the merger go through.”  Market Competition  The FCC under Democratic Chairman  Julius Genachowski , in a
break with Republican predecessors, has declined to declare that
the U.S. wireless market is competitive.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is concerned about
Verizon and AT&T outstripping competitors as the market moves
increasingly to higher-speed data known as 4G, Jeffrey Silva, a
Washington-based analyst for Medley Global Advisors, said in an
interview.  “It’s hard to see where the FCC and Justice Department
would have trouble clearing a T-Mobile deal with PCS,” Silva
said. Government clearance is likely in the first half of 2013,
he said.  Regulators should review the deal quickly, Representative
 Anna Eshoo , of California, said in an e-mailed message today.  “At a time when two companies continue to dominate the
wireless marketplace, the need for a strong national competitor
has never been greater,” said Eshoo, the top Democrat on the
House subcommittee on communications and technology.  Neil Grace, a spokesman for the FCC, which regulates
airwaves’ use, declined in an e-mail to comment on how the
agency might handle the deal.  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department,
which would examine the deal for anti-competitive impact,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  