-- 3M Scraps Avery Unit Deal as Antitrust Regulators Balk
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-10-03T22:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/3m-scraps-deal-to-buy-avery-unit-as-antitrust-regulators-balk.html
3M Co. (MMM)  scrapped an agreement to buy
 Avery Dennison (AVY)  Corp.’s office products business, a $550 million
deal the U.S.  Justice Department  opposed because of antitrust
concerns.  The takeover would have given  St. Paul , Minnesota-based 3M
more than 80 percent of the U.S. market for labels and sticky
notes, the Justice Department said in September. Today’s
announcement follows a plan by 3M and Avery Dennison last month
to “explore options” to respond to the department’s concerns
and win regulatory approvals.  “While we are disappointed with this turn of events, we
remain focused, as always, on investing in product innovation,”
Jesse Singh, vice president and general manager of 3M’s
Stationery and Office Supplies Division, said in a statement.  3M had planned to complete the purchase, announced Jan. 3,
in the second half of this year.  Pasadena , California-based
Avery said it will continue to search for a buyer for the unit,
which sells labels, binders, filing products and writing
instruments with brands such as Hi-Liters and Marks-A-Lot.  The Justice Department’s examination of the deal found that
3M and Avery have dominated adjacent parts of the office
products business for many years, with Avery making labels and
3M selling sticky notes under its Post-it brand.  The two companies are the largest label makers in the
world, according to Deane Dray, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in
 New York . Dray last month said the acquisition was small for 3M,
adding only 3 cents to his earnings-per-share forecast of $6.75
for next year.  Product Innovation  Avery Dennison  Chief Executive Officer Dean Scarborough
told analysts on Sept. 5 he disagreed with the Justice
Department’s findings that the purchase would hurt consumers,
saying the combination would allow for more spending on research
to make the products more innovative and competitive.  Avery Dennison fell 7.8 percent to $29 at 5:29 p.m. in New
York in late trading after the announcement. Through the close
of regular trading, Avery had gained 10 percent since the day
before the agreement was announced, while 3M had climbed 15
percent to $93.78.  The office-products deal’s collapse is the third major
development at 3M this week.  On Oct. 1, the manufacturer agreed to pay $860 million to
buy Ceradyne, a  Costa Mesa , California-based maker of ceramics
for the energy, aerospace and defense industries as CEO Inge Thulin tries to augment growth that has been hampered by
European weakness and a China slowdown.  Thulin announced a reorganization of 3M today, reducing the
number of units to five from six. He also shuffled some
businesses and executives among the units “to increase
relevance to our customers,” according to a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  