-- ADB Cuts Developing Asia’s Growth, Inflation Forecasts on China
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-10-03T01:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/adb-cuts-developing-asia-s-growth-inflation-forecasts-on-china.html
The  Asian Development Bank  cut the
region’s inflation and growth forecasts for this year and next,
as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and fiscal contraction in the
U.S. reduces expansions from  China  to  India .  The Manila-based lender forecast  Asia  excluding  Japan  will
expand 6.1 percent this year, according to the Asian Development
Outlook 2012 Update report released today, compared with a July
estimate of 6.6 percent and an April prediction of 6.9 percent.
It also reduced the region’s inflation projection to 4.2 percent
from 4.4 percent.  “Deceleration in the region’s two giants -- the People’s
Republic of China and India -- and in other major exporting
economies is tempering earlier optimism,” the ADB said. “The
ongoing sovereign debt crisis in the euro area and the looming
fiscal cliff in the U.S. pose major risks to the outlook.”  China’s  manufacturing  contraction persisted last month,
Japanese industrial companies grew more pessimistic and South
Korean exports fell, reports showed this week, signaling Asia’s
biggest economies have yet to reverse their slowdowns. All of
Asia’s eleven most-traded currencies except the Indonesian
rupiah advanced against the dollar in the past three months as
policy makers took steps to spur growth.  India’s central bank unexpectedly reduced the amount of
deposits lenders must set aside as reserves last month, while
Vietnam cut  interest rates  and South Korea announced 5.9
trillion won ($5.3 billion) of spending and tax relief.  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this
week the monetary authority will sustain record stimulus even
after the expansion gains strength, while also saying policy
makers don’t expect the economy to remain weak through 2015.  ’Extreme Shock’  Central banks in Japan, South Korea,  Indonesia ,  Thailand ,
India and the  Philippines  are scheduled to meet this month to
determine monetary policy as the region gauges the need for more
stimulus measures. The  Bank of Japan  expanded easing in
September, joining peers in Europe and the U.S.  Asia’s exports have faltered as slower global growth crimps
demand for the region’s goods. Malaysia’s shipments abroad
unexpectedly slipped for the first time in three months in July,
while Thailand and  South Korea  have recorded three straight
months of declines.  “If an extreme shock were to materialize, most economies
in the region have room to use fiscal and monetary tools to
respond,” the ADB said. “However, there is currently no
region-wide need to pursue aggressive demand management. Rather,
efforts should focus on the medium-term issue of continued soft
external demand.”  Oil Eases  Crude oil has fallen about 7 percent this year, helping
ease price pressure. Gains in Indonesia slowed for the first
time in four months in September, while in Malaysia they have
stayed at the slowest pace in more than two years. Still, South
Korea reported a quickening last month, and the Philippine
central bank has raised its inflation forecast for this year.  Growth in developing Asia will be 6.7 percent next year,
the ADB forecast today, down from a previous estimate of 7.1
percent. Inflation will be 4.2 percent, slower than an earlier
forecast of 4.4 percent, it said.  China will expand 7.7 percent this year, less than the
previous forecast of 8.2 percent.  India’s economy  will grow 5.6
percent in the year ending March 31, it said, compared with the
earlier estimate of 6.5 percent.  Asia can bolster growth by boosting its services industry,
which accounts for almost half the region’s output and employs
34 percent of its workers, the ADB said.  “Developing Asia must adapt to a moderate growth
environment, and countries will need to do more to reduce their
reliance on exports, rebalance their sources of growth, and
increase their productivity and efficiency,” Changyong Rhee,
ADB’s chief economist, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  