-- Adoboli’s UBS Colleague Denies Bar Meeting Over Trades
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-10-04T17:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/adoboli-s-ubs-colleague-denies-bar-meeting-over-trades.html
Simon Taylor and Christophe Bertrand,
the two former junior traders on  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s exchange-traded funds
desk in London, said they didn’t attend a secret meeting with
their co-worker Kweku Adoboli last year to decide who should
take the blame for mounting losses from unauthorized trades.  Bertrand, testifying today at Adoboli’s London trial, and
Taylor, who was questioned yesterday, both denied meeting
Adoboli and another trader on Sept. 12, 2011, at an  All Bar One 
restaurant near the bank’s London office. Adoboli’s lawyer said
the meeting was to discuss whether Adoboli would take the blame
alone, or if they should do so together.  “The four of you had a discussion in All Bar One because
Mr. Adoboli said the losses had gotten to such a point he was
going to tell them about the losses and the umbrella,” Adoboli
lawyer  Charles Sherrard  said to Bertrand today, referring to a
secret account allegedly used by the team. “The three of you
decided to let him do that to save your own skins.”  Bertrand, who now lives in  France , said he disagreed.
Sherrard asked him why he had left the office with the others
for 50 minutes and then returned to work until 7 p.m.  “I believe at the time I was training for a marathon --
maybe I went for a run,” Bertrand testified.  Adoboli, 32, was charged with fraud and false accounting in
relation to unauthorized trades on which Zurich-based UBS lost
$2.3 billion. He has pleaded not guilty. Sherrard has sought to
show his client wasn’t acting alone and that the bank encouraged
traders to take risk and exceed trading limits.  Entry Records  Sherrard showed Taylor and Bertrand print-outs of the entry
and exit records of UBS’s London office indicating they and
Adoboli left after the financial markets closed on the day of
the alleged meeting and returned together about an hour later.
Taylor said he didn’t remember what he did in that period, and
may have returned with Adoboli because he “bumped into him”
outside.  “You have feigned  memory loss  about this whole period,”
Sherrard said to Taylor yesterday.  John Hughes , another former trader, also denied attending
the meeting at the bar during testimony this week.  Two days after the alleged meeting, Adoboli sent an e-mail
to management admitting he faked counterparties for trades -- a
message Taylor requested not mention his name, Sherrard said.  Taylor told the jury previously that while he was aware of
the secret account, which Adoboli dubbed “the umbrella,” he
wasn’t aware of its risk to the bank until after Adoboli sent
the e-mail. Bertrand, who joined the ETF desk in June 2010, said
Adoboli told him about the umbrella in early 2011, describing it
as a way to cover “future losses and dividends.”  Bertrand admitted to altering the settlement date in one of
Adoboli’s trades while he was on vacation in June last year
after the bank’s trade-support unit questioned it. He denied any
knowledge of fictitious trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  