-- Thai Baht Declines Most in a Week on Dimming Outlook for Exports
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-10-03T02:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/thai-baht-declines-most-in-a-week-on-dimming-outlook-for-exports.html
Thailand ’s baht fell the most in more
than a week on concern economic weakness in  Europe  and  China 
will hurt the Southeast Asian nation’s exports. Bonds gained.  The currency snapped a four-day gain before a report today
that economists forecast will show retail sales in the euro area
shrank the most in four months in August, according to a
Bloomberg survey. Manufacturing contracted a second month in
September in China, Thailand’s largest export market, according
to figures released this week. Weaker exports may hurt
consumption and investment in the longer term, Bank of Thailand
Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said on Sept. 26.  “Market sentiment is quite weak, weighing on regional
currencies,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi
Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo . “Investors remain
bearish on the outlook for the Chinese economy and that is
negative for countries that depend on China for their exports.
It’s hard to aggressively take riskier positions in this
environment.”  The baht slumped 0.3 percent, the most since Sept. 24, to
30.73 per dollar as of 8:25 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched 30.63 earlier, the
strongest level since March. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
unchanged at 4.27 percent.  Thai  exports  fell 5.1 percent in August from a year earlier
after having decreased 3.9 percent the previous month, according
to official figures. China bought 11.9 percent of goods shipped
from Thailand in the first eight months of this year, while
Europe accounted for 8.6 percent.  The yield on the 3.65 percent bonds due December 2021 fell
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 3.43 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 