-- AIA Rises on Possible Purchase of ING Business: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-10-03T08:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/aia-rises-on-possible-purchase-of-ing-business-hong-kong-mover.html
AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  rose to a seven-month
high in  Hong Kong  after the third-largest Asia-based insurer was
said to be close to buying  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s Malaysian and Thai
units.  The stock climbed 2.3 percent to HK$29.55, the highest
since Feb. 28. The shares earlier  advanced  as much as 3.6
percent to HK$29.95 in premarket trading, a record since the
Hong Kong-based insurer  started trading  on the city’s exchange
on Oct. 29, 2010.  ING, which is selling assets to comply with European Union
orders, is negotiating final terms to sell its businesses in
 Malaysia  and Thailand to AIA for about 1.4 billion euros ($1.8
billion), two people familiar with the matter told  Bloomberg
News  on Sept. 29. A deal could be announced by mid-October or
could still fall apart, they added.  “The deal will increase weighting to higher-growth
countries irrespective of price or if it is only Malaysia that
they buy,” said Arjan van Veen, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG, on the potential purchases from ING.  He  rates  AIA “outperform” and expects the stock to reach
HK$32.00 in 12 months from Aug. 29.  AIA Chief Executive Officer Mark Tucker, who had focused on
existing businesses to rejuvenate the insurer, said in February
he would consider acquisitions when they add value to investors
and are financially viable. AIA announced on Sept. 27 it agreed
to  buy  a controlling stake in  Aviva NDB Insurance Plc (CTCE) , Sri
Lanka’s second-largest life insurer, to enter the country, its
16th market.  Thailand, Malaysia  Thailand is already AIA’s second-largest  market  by value of
new business in the six months to May, a measure of the
profitability of new policies that Tucker, 54, has focused on,
according to the insurer.  Malaysia, the smallest of AIA’s largest markets by that
measure, posted growth in new-business value of 41 percent in
the same period. That’s faster than other big markets including
Singapore, China, Korea and Hong Kong, its largest, according to
its first-half results announcement.  AIA lost market share and suffered declines in agent
productivity and new policy sales because of troubles at its
then parent  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  during the
financial crisis and as a result of uncertainties during its own
attempted takeover by  Prudential Plc. (PRU)  in 2010.  The Asian insurer in July  posted  a better-than-expected 10
percent rise in first-half profit after increasing value of new
business by 28 percent to $512 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  