-- Malawi Threatens to Cancel Talks With Tanzania Over Lake Dispute
-- B y   F r a n k   J o m o   a n d   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2012-10-03T10:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/malawi-threatens-to-cancel-talks-with-tanzania-over-lake-dispute.html
Malawian President Joyce Banda
threatened to cancel talks with Tanzanian leader Jakaya Kikwete
over their disputed boundary on Lake Malawi, where a British
company is exploring for oil.  Banda plans to call off the negotiations after Tanzania
published a map claiming half of the lake as its own, she told
reporters yesterday in Lilongwe, the capital. Banda was
returning from a trip to the  United Nations General Assembly ,
where she briefed Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon about the
impasse and told him her country plans to seek arbitration by
the  International Court of Justice  in  The Hague .  “When I left the country I thought the matter will be
resolved, but now the matter looks bigger than I thought,”
Banda said. “I have written them that there is no point to go
on with the dialogue until they explain the new map.”  Malawi’s Energy Ministry announced in October 2011 it
awarded Surestream Petroleum Ltd., based in Reading,  England , a
license to search for oil in blocks 2 and 3 on Lake Malawi
covering 20,000 square kilometers (7,724 square miles).
Tanzania’s government says exploration has extended into its
half of the lake, which it calls Lake Nyasa, and wants
exploration halted until ownership of the water body is
determined.  The dispute is a “sovereign issue,” Keith Robinson,
Surestream’s country manager for Malawi, said in a phone
interview today from Reading.  “We are leaving it to the two nations to resolve their own
dispute,” he said. “We will cooperate and allow the process to
proceed at its own pace.”  Third Party  Tanzanian Lands Minister Anna Tibaijuka didn’t answer two
calls to her mobile phone seeking comment. On Sept. 5, Tibaijuka
said the two countries would agree on a third party to help end
the dispute if they fail to resolve it on their own.  Banda plans to visit Tanzania to seek clarification on the
new map, Steven Nhlane, the president’s press secretary, said in
a phone interview today from Lilongwe.  “The launch of the new map means Tanzania has bypassed the
outcome of the talks between the two countries and therefore the
president sees no need to proceed,” Nhlane said. “However,
before the issue is taken to ICJ for example, she still wants to
meet President Kikwete and there are plans she will visit that
country.”  Malawi is one of the world’s 20 poorest countries, with
more than 40 percent of the population living on less than $1 a
day and an average life expectancy of 40 years, according to the
U.S. Agency for International Development. The southern African
nation relies on aid for about 40 percent of its budget,
according to the government.  Tanzania already holds the second-largest natural-gas
reserves in eastern  Africa  after  Mozambique , having discovered
about 30 trillion cubic feet of the resource so far.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frank Jomo in Blantyre via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam  via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 