-- Alberta’s Redford Said to Seek Tougher Cnooc Conditions
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-10-03T17:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/alberta-s-redford-said-to-seek-tougher-cnooc-conditions.html
Alberta  Premier Alison Redford asked
the federal government to impose tougher management and
employment conditions on  Cnooc (883)  Ltd.’s $15.1 billion takeover
offer of  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  before approving the transaction, according
to a person familiar with the matter.  Redford wants guarantees that at least 50 percent of
Nexen’s board and management positions will be held by
Canadians, the person said on condition they not be identified
because the discussions are confidential. The request came in a
recommendation provided to Industry Minister Christian Paradis
and the government’s investment review division.  Alberta’s conditions may impose additional costs and risks
for Cnooc at a time when oil-sands producers face a  rising
supply  of North American crude and a lack of pipeline
infrastructure threatens to stall sales. Prime Minister  Stephen
Harper ’s government is reviewing the bid under the nation’s
foreign takeover law, which specifies transactions need to have
a “net benefit” to the country in order to win approval.  Other recommendations made by Redford’s government are for
Cnooc to maintain workforce levels for at least five years, to
strengthen commitments to keep planned capital spending and to
clarify plans for research and development, the person said,
adding Alberta’s government has indicated it would not object to
the transaction if the conditions were met.  Jay O’Neill, director of communications for Redford, said
the premier has said the transaction is beneficial. He declined
to comment directly on the details of Alberta’s submission to
the federal government.  ‘Significant Benefit’  “We were asked for our position and we did submit that
position,” O’Neill said. “Our premier has been pretty clear in
terms of her discussions around the deal since it was first
announced and that there does appear to be significant benefit
not only for Alberta but also Canada.”  In the July 23 announcement of its $27.50 a share bid,
Cnooc pledged to follow through on Calgary-based Nexen’s  capital
spending  plans and maintain the company’s employment level and
management, without giving details or a time frame.  Beijing-based Cnooc has also promised to make Calgary the
head office of its North American operations, as well as list
its common shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  Steven MacKinnon, a Canadian spokesman for Cnooc, said the
company doesn’t comment on the regulatory process. Cnooc is
controlled by state-owned China National Offshore Oil
Corporation, which indirectly owns 64.4 percent of the company’s
shares.  Closely Scrutinized  A spokeswoman for Paradis, Margaux Stastny, said she would
look into the matter when contacted for comment. Paradis
reiterated to reporters today that the Cnooc-Nexen bid would be
closely scrutinized, and rejected opposition requests for public
hearings on the pact. The government said Aug. 29 it had
received Cnooc’s application. Canada has 45 days to examine the
deal and may extend that deadline by 30 days as long as it
notifies Cnooc before the initial review period expires.  While not bound by Redford’s recommendations, Canada
routinely seeks the opinion of provincial leaders as part of its
reviews. Opposition by Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall to  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s 2010 bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.
foreshadowed the federal government’s rejection of that
takeover.  Alberta’s push for firmer commitments from Cnooc may be an
attempt to shield the province should a slump in energy prices
encourage the company to change its plans.  Meet Promises  Canada sued  U.S. Steel Corp. (X)  in 2009 over the steelmaker’s
2007 acquisition of Stelco Inc., saying it hadn’t complied with
pledges it made on production and employment. The company argued
a decline in economic conditions beyond its control caused a
downturn in its business and made it impossible for it to meet
the promises it made when it bought Stelco.  The government and the company settled last December, with
U.S. Steel agreeing to maintain operations in  Canada  until 2015
and make C$50 million ($50.7 million) in additional capital
investments.  As part of the specific undertakings proposed by Cnooc,
which have not been made public, the Chinese company pledged 25
percent Canadian composition of its board, the person said. The
company also pledged to maintain Calgary-based Nexen’s workforce
at no less than 80 percent of current levels for three years,
they said, a commitment the Albertan government wants to extend
by two years.  Redford’s government is also recommending the federal
government receive firm commitments from Cnooc on meeting
environmental standards, the person said.  Nexen shareholders approved the bid on Sept. 20, with about
99 percent of those who voted casting ballots in favor.  Nexen
shares (NXY)  were trading at $25.42 at 1:43 p.m. in  New York , up 0.4
percent from yesterday and 7.6 percent below Cnooc’s offer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  