-- Allergan Pulled Teen Lap-Band Plan as Criticism Mounted
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-10-03T20:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/allergan-pulls-teen-lap-band-plans-as-criticism-mounts.html
Allergan Inc. (AGN)  won’t seek U.S.
clearance to sell its popular Lap-Band stomach shrinking device
to an increasing population of obese teenagers.  In the wake of congressional criticism and lawsuits, the
 Irvine , California-based company has decided to shelve any plans
for marketing its Lap-Band device to adolescents, among the
fastest-growing group of obese Americans.  Health advocacy groups have warned about the surgery’s
safety and its effect on a young person’s developing body. And a
2011 Archives of Surgery study found that almost half of adult
patients who had gastric banding had the device removed
following infections and other complications.  “These products are marketed as the surgery that can save
your life,”  Amy Allina , program director of the  National
Women’s Health Network , a Washington-based advocacy group, said
in an interview. “People are being misled.”  Allergan rose less than 1 percent to $93.31 at the close of
 New York  trading. The stock has risen 17 percent in the past 12
months.  About one-third of 200,000 weight-loss surgeries in the
U.S. annually use gastric banding, wrapping the small rubber
devices around the upper stomach to limit capacity. It costs
less than surgery that alters or staples parts of the stomach,
and is adjustable and reversible.  Obesity Rates  Use of the Lap-Band device may grow because obesity rates
are predicted to increase. More than one-third of U.S. adults
are obese, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention in Atlanta, and medical costs associated with obesity
were estimated at $147 billion in 2008 dollars. The adolescent
market had been seen as potentially lucrative: the rate of
obesity among all U.S. children and adolescents has tripled
since 1980 to about 17 percent.  Allergan isn’t elaborating on why it isn’t seeking U.S.
permission to market its  weight-loss  device to a younger patient
population. The decision was made at the beginning of the year,
Allergan spokeswomen Naziah Lasi-Tejani wrote in an e-mail. The
company stands behind the safety and effectiveness of the Lap-
Band system it obtained in its 2006 acquisition of Inamed Corp.
for about $3.3 billion, Lasi-Tejani said.  “The Lap-Band AP system has an 18-year safety and
effectiveness record with more than 650,000 procedures performed
to date and adverse events reported in less than two percent of
patients,” Lasi-Tejani said in an e-mail.  Devices Removable  Patients who undergo gastric banding with Lap-Band can have
the rubber device removed entirely if it’s problematic, or have
it adjusted using saline infusions to tighten it. The procedure
has been popularized by such high-profile patients as  Rex Ryan ,
the New York Jets professional football coach who told the New
York Post he lost almost a third of his weight, dropping to 242
pounds.  At the same time, some clinics, hospitals and doctors that
offer gastric banding with Lap-Band devices are facing lawsuits
over patient care and, in some instances, the tragic outcomes
that have followed surgery.  After having the Lap-Band device implanted in May 2009,
Rebecca Quatinetz kept vomiting. Then the 27-year-old lawyer
struggled to swallow. Two months later, Quatinetz died in her
New York apartment of cardiac arrest caused by long QT syndrome,
a condition that causes a racing heart, according to an Aug. 4,
2009, autopsy report.  Higher Risk  A pre-operative exam detected the condition, but
Quatinetz’s doctors went ahead with the gastric surgery, her
mother, Stephanie Yutkin, 57, of Scarsdale, New York, said in an
interview. Yutkin maintains the surgery should never have been
done because, she was later informed, Quatinetz was at a higher
risk due to her heart condition and should have been treated for
that prior to any operation.  “A lot of doctors feel Lap-Band is a simple, little
procedure,” Yutkin said. “She was a beautiful girl, a writer,
an artist. She believed the doctors were telling her the
truth.”  Yutkin filed an April 5, 2010, lawsuit in New York Supreme
Court against  New York University Langone Medical Center , her
daughter’s doctors and others.  “Because the litigation is ongoing, it would be
inappropriate to comment on issues specific to this case,”
according to an e-mail from NYU Langone Medical Center.  Lawsuits Filed  The Quatinetz litigation is similar to other lawsuits that
claim doctors are operating on unsuitable patients, engaging in
misleading advertising and neglecting to provide follow-up care.
Some lawsuits claim doctors have lied about patient heights to
get insurance coverage, that patients have been seen by doctors
who were under medical board investigations, and that patients
didn’t receive proper follow-up tests after surgery that may
have detected concerns that led to long-term health problems.  Some Democrats in Congress in January called for hearings
on whether the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  failed to
protect the public from Lap-Band devices. Democrats on the House
Energy and Commerce Committee said at the time that Allergan was
pursuing the expanded use in children as young as 14 despite
concerns by some doctors the procedure is too drastic for a
young person’s developing body, according to a Jan. 20 letter to
Republican leaders. The adverse public health consequences
associated with the device are exacerbated by aggressive
marketing, the lawmakers said.  About half of patients who had gastric banding needed to
have the device removed, according to a March 21, 2011, study in
the Archives of Surgery that found the treatment caused more
complications, such as hernias, infection and band slippage,
than weight loss. About 1 of 3 had band erosion, which occurs
when the band grows into the stomach.  Five Deaths  The data is no longer relevant as clinical practices around
implantation techniques and follow-up care have significantly
improved involving Lap-Band, said Lasi-Tejani of Allergan. Data
from about 60,000 patients have shown laproscopic adjustable
gastric banding has complication rates that are four times lower
than gastric bypass surgery, she said.  Problems have dogged some surgery clinics that provide or
market the Lap-Band, including those affiliated with a 1-800-
GET-THIN LLC marketing campaign. The use of Lap-Bands by
surgical centers associated with 1-800-GET-THIN have been
associated with five deaths since 2009, according to the January
letter from  House Democrats , citing  Los Angeles  Times stories on
fatalities.  Liver Lacerations  Laura Faitro underwent gastric banding with a Lap-Band
device on July 21, 2010, and her liver was lacerated during
surgery, according to a  class action lawsuit  filed in 2011 in
Superior Court of  California  in Los Angeles against  1-800-GET-
THIN LLC , a marketing campaign in  Beverly Hills , California, and
other parties.  Faitro was discharged despite severe abdominal pain, and
died July 26, 2010, at  Simi Valley Hospital  in California,
according to the lawsuit. Her autopsy revealed three liver
lacerations and more than three liters of bloody fluid in her
abdominal cavity, the lawsuit states.  Konrad Trope, a lawyer in Beverly Hills, California, who
represents 1-800-GET-THIN, said in an interview and e-mail that
all patients receive and review a booklet that contains FDA-
mandated warnings and information on the surgery, safety and
statistics.  “Nobody condones or views any patient death as
‘acceptable,’” Trope said in an e-mail. “Our surgery centers
do their utmost to promote and implement patient safety.”  FDA Letter  The FDA sent a Dec. 12 letter to 1-800-GET-THIN stating
their advertising was misleading and failed to reveal the risks
of surgery.  1-800-GET-THIN is committed to patient safety and advocacy,
and all callers are referred to licensed doctors and accredited
facilities that provide disclosure on risks and benefits,
according to a  press release  on their website.  In July, the FDA also told Los Angeles-based Lap-Band VIP
in a letter to immediately stop running television ads that
leave out information about the procedure’s risks.  Obesity is a measurement of a person’s  body mass index ,
which is calculated using height and weight. A person with a BMI
of 30 or more, such as a 6-foot man weighing more than 220
pounds (100 kilograms) is considered obese, according to the
 National Institutes of Health .  The FDA in February 2011  expanded  the use of Allergan’s
Lap-Band to include obese individuals with a BMI of 30 to 34 who
have an existing medical condition related to their weight. The
procedure was approved in 2001 for severely obese patients with
a BMI of at least 40; a index of at least 35 and an existing,
related condition such as diabetes, or those who are at least
100 pounds (45 kilograms) overweight.  Obesity Sales  Allergan in 2011 reported about $203 million in net sales
worldwide of its obesity intervention products.  “It’s the safest procedure we have,”  Jaime Ponce ,
president of the American Society for Metabolic & Bariatric
Surgery, said in an interview. “The procedure itself can have
problems, but they get more pronounced if they don’t have the
proper follow up.”  Some patient advocacy groups such as the  National Women’s
Health Network  remain skeptical of such assurances, saying
deaths and complications raise questions about how well informed
patients are before undergoing gastric banding with the Lap-
Band. Yutkin, Rebecca Quatinetz’s mother, said more oversight is
needed of doctors and the product.  “Words cannot describe how I feel that she was taken away
from our family at such a young age,” she said in an e-mail.
“Rebecca’s whole life was in front of her.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  