-- American Airlines Loses Effort to Stop Union Election
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-10-03T19:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/american-airlines-loses-effort-to-stop-union-election.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  lost a
bid to stop a union-representation election for a group of
employees as a federal appeals court threw out the carrier’s
lawsuit challenging the vote.  The decision today by the U.S. Court of Appeals in New
Orleans means the union vote among approximately 10,000
passenger-service employees at the airline can proceed, the
Communications Workers of America said in a statement. The CWA
is seeking to represent the workers.  “For passenger-service agents at American Airlines who
have been fighting for a union voice for 15 years, this is
extremely good news,” the union said.  The appeals court’s decision is a setback for American,
which is seeking to cut labor costs as part of its bankruptcy
restructuring. The  Fort Worth , Texas-based airline has
negotiated cost-cutting deals with flight attendants, mechanics
and other workers, and has won court approval to reject its
labor contract with pilots.  American sued the National Mediation Board in May to stop
the union election by passenger service employees. U.S. District
Judge Terry Means in Fort Worth blocked the vote, and said the
board exceeded its authority when it authorized an election.  The appeals court said in its decision that Means “erred
in exercising jurisdiction.” Judicial review of National
Mediation Board decisions is appropriate only when the agency
has committed egregious error, the court said.  Don West, a spokesman for the mediation board, declined to
comment.  Bruce Hicks , a spokesman for American, had no immediate
comment.  The case is American Airlines Inc. v. National Mediation
Board, 12-10680, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
(New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  