-- Manchester Utd. Weighs Move for Dortmund’s Lewandowski: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-03T06:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/manchester-utd-weighs-move-for-dortmund-s-lewandowski-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Pole Position  Manchester United  is considering a move for Borussia
Dortmund striker  Robert Lewandowski  at the end of the season,
amid uncertainty about the futures of Nani and  Javier Hernandez ,
the  Daily Telegraph reported .  United manager  Alex Ferguson  and his assistant Mike Phelan
plan to watch Lewandowski, 24, play in tonight’s Champions
League game at Manchester City, the newspaper said.  United has emerged as the front-runner to sign Lewandowski
even though Chelsea has also actively scouted the Polish
forward, who has made it clear to Dortmund that he will not sign
an extension to his current contract, the Telegraph added.  Lille Left-Back  United and Chelsea had scouts watch Lille left-back Lucas
Digne in last week’s French Ligue 1 match against Rennes, the
 Daily Mail reported .  Digne, 19, broke into Lille’s first-team last season and
has carried his good form into this campaign, the Mail said.  Father’s Footsteps  Blackpool forward Tom Ince is set to join United in a 4
million-pound ($6.4 million) January transfer, the  Sun reported .  Ince’s father Paul, a former Red Devils midfielder, is said
to have been trying to push the move through and spoke with
United manager Ferguson earlier this week, the Sun added.  Kean to Keane?  Roy Keane delayed a decision on an offer to manage Turkish
club Kasimpasa after learning of potential interest in his
availability to replace  Steve Kean  as Blackburn Rovers manager,
the  Telegraph reported .  While no contact has been made between Blackburn and Keane,
both parties are aware of the mutual interest and Keane is open
to the prospect of speaking to senior Blackburn officials, the
newspaper added.  Sprint School  Former Olympic sprint champion  Michael Johnson  is helping
some of Arsenal’s academy players get faster at his athletic
performance school in the U.S., the  Daily Mirror reported .  “If a player needs to work on some aspects of his physical
side, we send them there for preparation,” the Mirror cited
Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  as saying about Johnson’s link
with the Gunners. “It is a fantastic school, but he is not
directly involved with our team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  