-- Apollo Taking Berry Plastics Public With Twice the Debt of Peers
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-10-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/apollo-taking-berry-plastics-public-with-twice-the-debt-of-peers.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  is
attempting an initial public offering of  Berry Plastics Group
Inc. (BERY)  at a valuation in line with its peers, even as the
packaging company carries a debt load twice as large.  Berry, which Apollo bought in 2006, is seeking to raise as
much as $529.4 million, giving it an enterprise value of 8.8
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the year through June. That compares with an
average of 8.7 times among publicly traded rivals, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Meanwhile, net  debt  after the IPO is
projected to be $4.1 billion, or 6 times Ebitda, more than twice
the level of competitors such as  Bemis Co. (BMS) , the data show.  Apollo, which has shelved proposed offerings this year for
Hardee’s owner  CKE Inc. (CK)  and chemicals maker  Momentive
Performance Materials Holdings LLC (MPM) , may be pricing Berry more
attractively as the firm prepares to raise as much as $12
billion for a new fund, according to  Michael Holland , chairman
of New York-based Holland & Co. Berry’s higher debt load may
still give investors pause, even with a valuation similar to its
peers, said Todd Wenning of Morningstar Inc.  “Relative to the other players in the field, they stand
out as having a higher debt load and little bit more risky
balance sheet,” Wenning, a Chicago-based analyst, said in a
telephone interview. “As an investor, if they’re trading one-
to-one valuation wise, certainly there would be a concern about
the balance sheet.”  New Fund   Evansville, Indiana-based Berry is offering 29.4 million
shares in its IPO for $16 to $18 each and will use the proceeds
to repay debt, according to a regulatory filing. The offering,
representing a 26 percent stake in the company, is scheduled for
later today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Berry’s
net debt-to-Ebitda ratio following the IPO compares with the
median ratio of about 2.6 times for similar-sized peers, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Melissa Mandel Kvitko, a spokeswoman for Apollo at
Rubenstein Associates Inc., declined to comment.  Apollo has been seeking to sell its portfolio companies
back to the public to return money to clients as it prepares to
market a new flagship buyout fund. The New York-based firm
expects to start marketing the pool later this year, seeking $10
billion to $12 billion, two people with knowledge of the plans
have said.  While companies owned by Apollo such as  Caesars
Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  and  Rexnord Corp. (RXN)  have raised at least
$442.6 in initial offerings this year, the firm shelved sales by
CKE and Momentive totaling $1.08 billion when they failed to get
the demand they had forecast.  Cashing In  “There are very few things that are more useful in the
marketing sense for a PE firm than to be able to ring the cash
register,” Holland, who oversees more than $4 billion, said in
a telephone interview. “For someone like Apollo to come out and
price something intelligently, and not try to rip off the buyers
in the IPO, is very smart.”  Ebitda at Berry was $680 million in the 12 months through
June 30, filings show. The company also disclosed adjusted
Ebidta of $784 million during the period, which excludes charges
for restructuring. The IPO  price-range  midpoint values the
company’s outstanding common stock at $1.9 billion.  Silgan, Bemis  Aptargroup Inc. (ATR) , the Crystal Lake, Illinois-based maker of
closures and valves for packaging foods and cosmetics, has an
enterprise value of $3.5 billion, or 8.7 times Ebitda of $405.3
million in the last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Container maker Silgan Holdings Inc., based in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , has an enterprise value of $4.4 billion,
or 8.6 times Ebitda, and Neenah, Wisconsin-based Bemis is valued
at $4.7 billion, or 8.7 times Ebitda, the data show. Berry names
these companies as competitors in regulatory filings.  Apollo had registered seven portfolio companies for
potential IPOs as of Aug. 2, President Marc Spilker said at the
time, after completing offerings for two of its larger holdings
earlier in the year. Caesars raised $16.3 million in February
after scrapping a $531 million IPO in 2010, and ball-bearing
maker Rexnord raised $426.3 million in its March offering,
pricing the stock at the low end of the planned range. CKE and
Momentive were postponed later in August.  Ceva Logistics Inc., a U.K.-based supply-chain management
company owned by Apollo, filed in May to raise $400 million in a
U.S. sale. The company, which hasn’t specified the number of
shares it plans to sell or a price range, applied to list its
shares on the  New York  Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol
CEVL.  Apollo and Graham Partners, which bought Berry from Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. in 2006, will retain
59 percent and 5.4 percent, respectively, of the company’s
common stock after the IPO, filings show. The shares will be
listed on the NYSE under the symbol BERY.  Bank of America Corp. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Barclays Plc and
Deutsche Bank AG are leading the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at  
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at  
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  