-- Applied Materials to Cut Up to 9% of Staff Amid Slump
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-10-04T20:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/applied-materials-to-cut-up-to-1-300-jobs-or-9-percent-of-staff.html
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , the largest
producer of chipmaking equipment, plans to eliminate as much as
9 percent of its workforce as lackluster personal-computer
demand leads customers to slow orders for manufacturing tools.  The company will cut 900 to 1,300 jobs, resulting in pretax
costs of $180 million to $230 million, through a voluntary
retirement program and other actions. The restructuring will
save $140 million to $190 million a year, Applied Materials said
in a statement yesterday.  Investors and analysts track Applied Materials’ earnings as
a gauge of optimism about future growth in the electronics
industry. The PC market may grow by less than 1 percent this
year, its worst showing in more than a decade, according to
market researcher IDC. That means Applied Materials’ customers,
such as  Intel Corp. (INTC) , face slowing orders for components,
reducing their appetite for spending to increase output.  Applied Materials  shares  dropped less than 1 percent to
$11.10 at the close in New York. The stock has gained 3.6
percent this year.  In August, the Santa Clara, California-based company gave a
forecast for fiscal fourth-quarter sales that was less than
analysts had estimated. At the time, Chief Executive Officer
Mike Splinter said orders for chip gear would pick up in the
last three months of the year.  Sales Prediction  Analysts now predict  sales  in the period that ends later
this month will fall 27 percent to $1.58 billion, the average
estimate  compiled  by Bloomberg.  Applied Materials in July reduced its projection for
industrywide factory-equipment sales for this year to $30
billion to $33 billion, compared with an earlier prediction of
$32 billion to $35 billion.  Semiconductor-equipment orders are seen as a harbinger of
demand for the broader electronics industry because chipmakers
such as Intel and Samsung Electronics Co. vary spending on new
equipment and plants based on their projections for demand as
much as two years in advance. Last month, Intel slashed its own
third-quarter sales forecast, citing reduced orders from PC
makers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  