-- Areva, Guangdong Nuclear Decide Against U.K. Atomic Bidding
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-10-03T16:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/areva-guangdong-nuclear-decide-against-u-k-atomic-bidding-1-.html
Areva SA (AREVA)  and China Guangdong Nuclear
Power Group Co. decided against bidding for the Horizon venture
in the U.K. being sold by German utilities EON AG and  RWE AG. (RWE)   Areva, based in Paris, and the Chinese company “suspended
their interest in the planned sale,” Patricia Marie, a
spokeswoman at the French developer, said today by e-mail.  The company said July 7 it would team up with utilities and
CGNPGC to bid for the venture, which has government backing to
set up reactors in  Wales  and western  England .  Areva’s group was one of three expected to bid for Horizon
by Sept. 28. A  Hitachi Ltd (6501) .-led partnership put in a proposal,
Keisaku Shibatani, a spokesman, said today by phone, declining
to name its partners. A group comprising Westinghouse Electric
Co. and  China ’s State Nuclear Power Technology Corp. was also
expected to bid. Westinghouse U.K. Chief Executive Officer Mike
Tynan couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Areva’s action is a blow to Britain’s nuclear plans as it
seeks to replace atomic plants, upgrade grids and cut emissions
requiring about 110 billion pounds ($177 billion) of investment
by 2020. The U.K. is one of only three western European nations
pursuing new nuclear plants after last year’s disaster in Japan.  “We are seeing a high level of interest in the U.K.
nuclear market, including from a diverse range of potential new
entrants,” the Department of Energy and Climate said by e-mail.  Officials at RWE and EON, which in March pulled out of the
venture because of rising costs, declined to comment.  Hinkley Point  The decision to withdraw probably came from the Chinese
contingent, Malcolm Grimston, an analyst at  Chatham House  in
 London , said today by phone. The Chinese may have provided most
of the investment with Areva as plant provider, Grimston said.  “Having other companies there with the money to build them
would have been helpful,” he said. All of Britain’s nuclear
reactors are due to shut by 2035 and it’s seeking to spur new
plant projects through a bill that guarantees power contracts.  Areva’s EPR reactor, which is in the  final stages  of the
U.K. assessment process for new designs, is being built in
Finland, France and China. Electricite de France SA plans to use
two EPRs at its  Hinkley Point  site in Somerset and two at
Sizewell in Suffolk. EDF plans to make a final  investment
decision  on Hinkley Point by the year-end, while  Iberdrola SA (IBE) 
and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA are also pursuing their U.K. nuclear plans.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net 
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  