-- Marex Hires Former UBS Investment Banker John Wall as CEO
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-10-03T11:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/marex-hires-former-ubs-investment-banker-john-wall-as-ceo.html
Marex Spectron Group, a closely held
commodities broker, hired  John Wall , a former global head of
 investment banking  at  UBS AG (UBSN) , as chief executive officer to
expand its American and Asia Pacific operations.  Wall, 51, will replace Roger Nagioff, who had taken on the
job for an agreed timeframe, London-based Marex said in an e-
mailed statement today. Nagioff will remain as a non-executive
director.  “The areas that have the most potential for growth are the
Americas and the Asia Pacific industry,” Wall said in an
interview today. “Europe is our home market, but Marex has a
complete platform of products and we will now roll out that
product range.”  Marex, which describes itself the world’s largest privately
owned commodities broker, has about 640 employees as well as
offices in  Hong Kong  and Singapore. It purchased commodity and
freight broker Spectron Group Ltd. in March 2011. The firm is
controlled by JRJ Group, the London-based investment firm set up
by former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankers Jeremy Isaacs
and Nagioff, Trilantic  Capital Partners  and BXR Group.  Wall returned to UBS in 2009 after taking a short break
from the industry. During his 25-year career at the Zurich-based
bank, he oversaw proprietary trading and was co-head of its
equities unit. He retired as global co-head of investment
banking in 2011.  Marex offers clients access to metals, energy and
agricultural products, as well as financial futures and foreign
exchange broking. Wall said the firm will focus on the metals,
crude, fuel and coal sectors. It may also hire more employees
for its Asia Pacific and American operations, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  