-- Argentina Says Ghana Court Ruling on Ship Violates Immunity
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-03T15:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/argentina-says-ghana-court-ruling-on-ship-violates-immunity-1-.html
Argentina ’s Foreign Ministry accused
a Ghanaian court of violating rules of diplomatic immunity after
it blocked an Argentine naval training ship from leaving one of
the African nation’s ports.  The ruling, in response to a petition from NML Capital
Ltd., an investment fund that owns Argentina’s defaulted bonds,
has been challenged by the South American nation’s government,
the ministry said in an e-mail statement today.  Argentina won’t give in to “attempts at international and
local extortion by vulture funds,” the ministry said.  NML and other holders of bonds that weren’t swapped in two
restructurings of the $95 billion of debt on which Argentina
defaulted in late 2001, are seeking to recover the full value of
the securities. About 94 percent of the defaulted bonds were
restructured in 2005 and 2010, giving creditors about 30 cents
on the dollar.  The action against the ARA Libertad tall ship in  Ghana 
follows attempts by holders of defaulted bonds to seize
Argentine government assets, from aircraft owned by flagship
airline Aerolineas Argentinas to central bank funds deposited in
banks in New York.  Bondholders are also waiting for a federal appeals court to
rule on a decision from a U.S. district court that a so-called
pari passu clause in the defaulted bonds bars Argentina from
paying investors who participated in the 2005 and 2010
restructurings before it pays the holdouts. The appeals court
heard arguments in July.  Debt Risk  Argentina hasn’t sold debt in global credit markets since
its default.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine
government dollar bonds instead of Treasuries fell 9 basis
points to 873 basis points today, according to data compiled by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG index, the highest in  South America 
after Venezuela.  Peter Truell , a spokesman for Elliott Management Corp., the
hedge fund founded by billionaire investor  Paul Singer  that runs
NML, declined to comment on the Ghana court decision.  The Libertad, built in 1956, left  Buenos Aires  on June 2
with more than 300 people on board. The vessel was scheduled to
call at ports in Brazil, Suriname, Guyana, Venezuela, Portugal,
Spain, Morocco, Senegal and other countries. From Ghana, it was
due to sail for  Angola , according to a press statement by the
navy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 