-- Marriott Beats Estimates as High-End Hotel Demand Climbs
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-10-03T21:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/marriott-has-profit-as-timeshare-costs-go-unrepeated.html
Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, reported earnings that
beat estimates after demand for high-end brands increased and
costs from a spun-off timeshare business went unrepeated.  Net income totaled $143 million, or 44 cents a share,
compared with a loss of $179 million, or 52 cents, a year
earlier, the Bethesda, Maryland-based company said today in a
statement. The year-earlier results included $324 million of
pretax impairment costs at Marriott’s timeshare business, which
was spun off in November 2011. Earnings were higher than the 40-
cent average estimate of 13 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The results were buoyed by demand for Marriott’s high-end
hotels in the U.S., including its luxury Ritz-Carlton brand,
 Patrick Scholes , a hospitality-industry analyst at research firm
Suntrust Robinson Humphrey Inc. in  New York , said before results
were announced. Revenue per available room at Marriott’s full-
service and luxury hotels climbed 6.8 percent in North America,
more than the 6.3 percent revpar increase for all hotels in the
region.  “Pricing power continued to improve in the quarter as
hotel occupancy levels approached prior peaks,”  Arne Sorenson ,
Marriott’s president and chief executive officer, said in the
statement.  Comparable revpar rose 5 percent outside North America. The
hotelier in July cut its growth forecast for international
revpar to 5 percent to 7 percent for this year, down from an
April forecast of 6 percent to 8 percent. Worldwide, revpar grew
6 percent in the third quarter.  2013 Forecast  Marriott expects worldwide revpar next year “to increase
at a mid-single-digit rate despite moderate economic growth in
many markets around the world,” Sorenson said in today’s
statement. He said he is “particularly bullish” about  North
America , where revpar probably will rise 5 percent to 7 percent
in 2013.  For the fourth quarter, the company today forecast earnings
of 52 cents to 56 cents a share. Marriott said it expects
investment spending to total $850 million and $950 million this
year, including about $100 million for maintenance capital
spending.   Marriott’s third-quarter revenue climbed to $2.73 billion
from an adjusted $2.52 billion, which excludes results from the
timeshare business.  The company said it bought back 9.6 million shares of
common stock in the third quarter for $353 million.  Marriott released its results after the close of regular
U.S. trading. Its shares rose 1 percent to $39 today. They have
gained 34 percent this year.  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , owner of the
luxury St. Regis and W brands, is scheduled to report its third-
quarter earnings on Oct. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  