-- Assurant Gains as Goldman Upgrades Insurer to Buy
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-10-03T13:39:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/assurant-gains-as-goldman-upgrades-insurer-to-buy.html
Assurant Inc. (AIZ) , the insurer of
foreclosed homes, climbed to the highest in five months after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended investing in the stock on
the prospect the company will repurchase shares.  Assurant  gained  2.3 percent to $38.57 at 9:34 a.m. in New
York after Goldman Sachs upgraded its rating to buy from
neutral. The New York-based company dropped 6.1 percent this
year, compared with the 11 percent gain of the 24-company  KBW
Insurance Index. (KIX)   Chief Executive Officer Robert Pollock said last month that
Assurant will have more capital to deploy as its business
insuring foreclosed homes shrinks amid an improving housing
market. Goldman Sachs analysts led by Christopher Giovanni said
the company may repurchase $640 million of shares between the
third quarter of this year and the last three months of 2013.  “We expect AIZ to continue to aggressively deploy its
capital via buybacks,” the analysts wrote in a note to clients
today, using the company’s ticker symbol. “AIZ has the best
free cash flow story within our coverage group.”  Coverage of  foreclosed  homes expanded as homeowners missed
payments amid the worst  housing crash  in seven decades.
Regulators in  California ,  Florida  and New York have been
investigating whether insurers charged too much for so-called
force-placed insurance and the national group of insurance
overseers held a hearing on the business in August.  Investors are overly pessimistic about cuts in Assurant’s
prices tied to the investigations, the analysts said. Assurant
may reduce rates by 20 percent in California, 15 percent in
Florida, and 10 percent in New York, the analysts estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  