-- Yankees, A’s Win Division Titles; Cabrera Grabs Triple Crown
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-10-04T12:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/athletics-defeat-rangers-to-complete-comeback-win-al-west-title.html
The  New York  Yankees and Oakland
Athletics won division titles on the final day of Major League
Baseball’s regular season. While the Yankees’ was no surprise,
even A’s executives and players were shocked at their crown.  The Baltimore Orioles and Texas Rangers were relegated to
an American League wild-card playoff as the pairings for MLB’s
postseason, which begins tomorrow night, were finalized.  The Yankees, with an MLB-high opening-day payroll of $198
million, won the AL East title for the 13th time in 17 years.
The A’s, who rank next-to-last in payroll among the 30 MLB teams,
weren’t expected to have a winning record this year.  “I’m pretty choked up,” A’s owner Lew Wolff said in a
clubhouse interview while getting sprayed with champagne. “I
thought we’d be competitive this year, but not super competitive.
Did I predict this? No.”  The AL postseason begins tomorrow with Baltimore at  Texas 
in a one-game playoff to determine the Yankees’ opponent in an
AL Division Series. Oakland is at the Detroit Tigers to start
the other division series the following day.  In the National League, the Atlanta Braves host the
defending-champion St. Louis Cardinals in the wild-card playoff
tomorrow. The winner goes on to meet the Washington Nationals.
The other division series has the Cincinnati Reds against the
San Francisco Giants, winners of the World Series in 2010.  The Yankees and Nationals are 5-1 co-favorites to win the
World Series, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book,
followed by the Reds at 11-2, the Tigers at 6-1, and the Giants
and Athletics at 7-1.  Triple Crown  Miguel Cabrera of the Tigers completed baseball’s first
Triple Crown in 45 years. Cabrera, 29, ended the regular season
with 44 home runs, 139 runs batted in and a .330 batting average,
leading the AL in all three categories and the first to do so in
either league since Boston’s Carl Yastrzemski in 1967.  The Yankees clinched the AL East when the Orioles lost 4-1
at the Tampa Bay Rays, who got three solo home runs from Evan Longoria. New York later won 14-2 at home against the Boston Red
Sox to finish with a two-game margin over the Orioles.  The Yankees have home-field advantage throughout the AL
playoffs. Curtis Granderson and Robinson Cano hit two home runs
each for the Yankees and combined to drive in 10 runs.  ‘A Grind’  “It’s not easy to do what these guys did,” Yankees
manager Joe Girardi told reporters. “Sometimes we take it for
granted because there’s been so much success here over the last
20 years, but this is a grind.”  The Athletics completed a 13-game comeback by winning the
AL West title with yet another rally. Trailing the Rangers 5-1,
the A’s scored six runs in the fourth inning -- the last two
runs coming when center fielder Josh Hamilton dropped a routine
fly ball -- and went on to win 12-5 to take the division title
from Texas by one game.  Oakland manager Bob Melvin doused cigar-smoking players
with champagne as General Manager Billy Beane answered
reporters’ questions while holding his 4-year-old son, Brayden.  “It’s a surprise, but I don’t think that recognizes the
talent of the players,” Beane said. “Listen, 162 games you’re
not a Cinderella. Surprises are in May.”  The A’s began the season 29th in the major leagues with a
$55 million payroll, according to USA Today’s annual survey. The
Oakland roster was assembled by Beane, whose philosophy of
evaluating players was the topic of the book “Moneyball” by
Michael Lewis.  Rookie Rotation  Oakland’s all-rookie starting pitching rotation has made a
combined 111 major league starts -- 422 fewer than the Yankees’
40-year-old Andy Pettitte, who leads current pitchers with 491
regular-season and 42 postseason starts.  The Rangers began the season with a $121 million payroll
that ranked sixth in MLB. Until yesterday, Texas hadn’t been out
of first place since April.  The A’s, who trailed the Rangers by 13 games on June 30,
won their sixth straight. They swept a three-game series from
Texas at the Oakland Coliseum, which yesterday hosted a giddy
sellout crowd of 36,067 that included 1,000 standees. The A’s
were fourth lowest in MLB this season with an average home
attendance of 20,536 entering yesterday’s game.  At the All-Star break in early July, the A’s were given
100-to-1 odds of winning their division, according to
Pregame.com’s RJ Bell, meaning a bettor who put down $100 on
Oakland would have made $10,000 plus the original investment.  “There was never any pressure on us, we were supposed to
lose 100 games,” Oakland’s Brandon Moss said in a televised
interview. “We just came to the park every day and played the
best baseball we could.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster at the Oakland Coliseum at  rgloster@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  