-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Fall as Growth Outlook Fuels Haven Demand
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-03T21:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/aussie-n-z-dollars-fall-as-growth-outlook-fuels-haven-demand.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars dropped against their U.S. counterpart as signs of
slowing global growth spurred demand for refuge.  The Aussie slid to a four-week low after the nation
recorded its widest trade deficit since 2008 and data showed
 China ’s non-manufacturing industries grew at the weakest pace
since at least March 2011. New Zealand’s dollar fell versus most
of its major peers. China is  Australia ’s biggest trade partner
and New Zealand’s second-largest export market.  “The data highlight the challenges posed by expectations
of slowing growth in China in an environment where the
Australian dollar is persistently strong, supported by global
central-bank portfolio diversification flows,” Eric Theoret, a
currency strategist in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia
Capital unit, wrote yesterday in a note to clients.  Australia’s currency depreciated 0.5 percent to $1.0216
yesterday in New York after touching $1.0196, its lowest level
since Sept. 6. It was little changed at 80.19 yen.  The New Zealand dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, sank 1 percent
to 81.94 U.S. cents and reached 81.74 cents, its lowest since
Sept. 12. The kiwi fell 0.6 percent to 64.32 yen.  Commodities tumbled, with the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index
of raw materials dropping 2.3 percent.  Trade Gap  The Aussie weakened after data showed the nation’s trade
gap for August was almost three times wider than the median
forecast of economists. Imports exceeded exports by A$2.03
billion ($2.07 billion) in August, versus a revised A$1.53
billion gap in July. The currency dropped on Oct. 2 after the
Reserve Bank of Australia unexpectedly cut its benchmark
 interest rate  a quarter-percentage point to 3.25 percent.  “We’re probably looking at another rate cut before the end
of the year, probably at next month’s meeting,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at Wells Fargo & Co. in New
York, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “After that, we
would have a tendency to see steady rates through 2013.”  New Zealand’s dollar has strengthened 4 percent this year,
the biggest increase among the 10 developed-nation currencies
monitored by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The
Aussie and U.S. dollars have fallen 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  