-- Aussie Falls as Trade Gap Spurs RBA Rate-Cut Bets; Kiwi Weakens
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-10-03T06:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/aussie-dollar-falls-as-rba-seen-cutting-interest-rates-further.html
Australia ’s dollar fell to the lowest
level in almost a month after a government report showed the
country’s trade deficit reached the widest since 2008.  The so-called Aussie extended declines against most major
peers amid speculation the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will have
to lower  interest rates  again following a quarter-point cut
yesterday to cushion the impact of slowing global growth. Demand
for the Australian and New Zealand currencies was also limited
as Asian shares fell and data signaled slowing growth in China’s
non-manufacturing industries.  “The widening of Australia’s trade deficit heightens
expectation for additional interest-rate cuts by the RBA,” said
Masashi Murata, a currency strategist in  Tokyo  at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. The Chinese data today “confirms the country’s
economy is slowing and could add some downward pressure on the
Australian dollar.”  Australia’s dollar touched $1.0203, the lowest level since
Sept. 6, before trading at $1.0209 as of 4:30 p.m. in Sydney,
0.6 percent below yesterday’s close in  New York .  The currency also traded near a one-year low against its
New Zealand counterpart. It fetched NZ$1.2429, having touched
NZ$1.2372 yesterday, the weakest since September 2011. The  New
Zealand dollar , nicknamed the kiwi, dropped 0.8 percent to 82.13
U.S. cents.  Australian bonds rose, pushing the yield on 10-year
securities down by as much as seven basis points or 0.07
percentage point, to 2.91 percent, the lowest since July 27.  Trade, Services  Australia’s trade deficit widened to A$2.03 billion ($2.08
billion) in August from a revised A$1.53 billion shortfall the
previous month, the Bureau of Statistics said in a statement
today. The median estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  was a A$685 million deficit.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  and the Australian Industry
Group said in Sydney today their performance of services index
declined 0.5 point to 41.9 last month. The gauge has not been
above the 50 level that divides expansion from contraction since
January. A private report showed sales of newly built homes
slumped to the lowest level on record in August.  Swaps indicate a 75 percent chance the RBA will reduce its
benchmark rate to 3 percent next month from its current level of
3.25 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Governor Glenn Stevens said yesterday that growth is being damped by the more
moderate Chinese expansion and weakness in  Europe .  “The Reserve Bank will cut again, probably next month,”
said  Joseph Capurso , a strategist at Commonwealth Bank of
Australia in Sydney. “I don’t think the RBA will cut as much as
the market is expecting, but those expectations have been one
thing that have pushed the Aussie down.”  China’s purchasing managers’ index for non-manufacturing
industries fell to 53.7 from 56.3 in August the National Bureau
of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
said in Beijing today. China is Australia’s biggest trading
partner and New Zealand’s second largest export market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  