-- Australia New-Home Sales Fell to Record Low in August, HIA Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-10-03T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/australia-new-home-sales-fell-to-record-low-in-august-hia-says.html
Australian sales of newly built homes
slumped to the lowest level on record in August, a private
report showed, underscoring the central bank’s decision to
resume lowering  interest rates .  Sales decreased 5.3 percent to 5,383 from July, when they
dropped 5.6 percent, the Canberra-based Housing Industry
Association said, citing a survey of the nation’s largest
builders. Detached house sales fell 5.8 percent, while
apartments slipped 2.5 percent, it showed.  “New home sales for August are the latest in a string of
soft new housing updates for this financial year,”  Harley Dale ,
HIA chief economist, said in a statement. “A fresh round of
interest rate cuts will help rebalance this situation, although
financial institutions obviously need to play their role in
cementing this outcome.”  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  reduced its overnight cash-
rate target by a quarter percentage point to 3.25 percent
yesterday, ending a three-meeting pause, as it seeks to revive
industries outside a resource boom. Traders are pricing in a 67
percent chance the central bank will cut by a quarter percentage
point to 3 percent next month.  The number of seasonally adjusted new detached house sales
in August fell by 7 percent in New South Wales, 8.6 percent in
Victoria, 2.9 percent in Queensland, 2.6 percent in  South
Australia  and 9.4 percent in Western Australia, the report
showed.  Even so, Australian  home prices  climbed by the most in 30
months in September as the central bank’s earlier rate
reductions began to take effect, according to RP Data.  House and apartment prices across Australia’s eight state
and territory capitals rose 1.4 percent in September from the
previous month, the most since March 2010, the RP Data-Rismark
Home Value Index showed yesterday. They also rose 2 percent in
the three months ended Sept. 30 from the prior quarter, the
Brisbane-based researcher said.  The RBA reduced the benchmark by 150 basis points since
last November. A rate of 3 percent would match the level set at
the peak of the 2009 global financial crisis that was the lowest
rate since 1960.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  