-- Bakers Footwear Files for Bankruptcy After Sales Decline
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-10-03T21:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/bakers-footwear-files-for-bankruptcy-after-sales-decline.html
Bakers Footwear Group Inc. (BKRS) , a mall-
based retailer of shoes for young women, filed for  bankruptcy
protection  after announcing a plan to close stores and reduce
costs because of declining sales.  The company listed assets of $41.9 million and debt of
$59.5 million as of April 28 in Chapter 11 documents filed today
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in St. Louis. Chapter 11 is the section
of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  used by companies to reorganize.  Bakers, based in St. Louis, said Aug. 27 that it will shut
as many as 25 stores, sell leases and other assets for as many
as 52 more to Aldo Inc. for $6.4 million, and terminate its
license for H by Halston. The proceeds will be used to pay bank
 debt  and trade creditors, Bakers said. The company expects to
raise as much as $8 million through liquidation sales and reduce
expenses by as much as $7 million a year.  “The plan will streamline the company’s operations to
focus solely on its Bakers brand,” according to the August
statement. Bakers sells private-label and national-brand shoes,
boots, sandals and accessories at 218 stores in the U.S.  Bankruptcy Financing  Bakers is asking the court to approve as much as $22
million in debtor-in-possession financing from Crystal Financial
LLC, including $6 million on an interim basis, to operate while
in bankruptcy, according to court papers. Pursuant to the terms
of the credit agreement, Bakers must, on or before Nov. 2, enter
into “a definitive term sheet or similar agreement” with
respect to reorganization plan and disclosure statement.  The company delayed filing its financial report for the
fiscal quarter ended July 28. Sales in the period fell 11
percent from a year earlier, with same-store sales dropping 7.5
percent, Bakers said in a September filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Baker’s largest unsecured creditors include Taichung,
Taiwan-based East Mount Shoes Ltd., with a claim of $6.9
million;  Steven Madden Ltd. (SHOO) , based in Long Island City,  New
York , with a claim of $3.7 million; and H Co. IP LLC, based in
Los Angeles, with a claim of $2.5 million.  Bakers fell 87 percent to 6 cents in over-the-counter
trading in New York today.  The case is In re Bakers Footwear Group Inc., 12-49658,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of Missouri (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  