-- Bank Bond Risk Falls as Spanish Bailout Prospect Fuels ECB Rally
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-10-03T15:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/bank-bond-risk-falls-as-spanish-bailout-prospect-fuels-ecb-rally.html
Bank credit risk fell for a third day
as the prospect for a bailout of  Spain  boosts the outlook for
the region’s lenders, sending bond yields to a record low.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to the senior debt
of 25 banks and insurers dropped seven basis points to 189,
according to Bloomberg data at 4 p.m. in  London . The average
yield on bonds in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Financial
Corporates index fell to a record 2.75 percent from 5.4 percent
at the start of the year.  Investors are betting it’s just a matter of time before
Spain asks for a bailout, according to Mizuho International Plc,
after Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said yesterday a request
isn’t imminent. Pacific Investment Management Co. and  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK)  are among U.S. investors buying financial bonds in Europe’s
most indebted nations as the central bank’s commitment to bring
down borrowing costs wins back confidence of the world’s biggest
money managers.  “A lot of systemic risk is coming out of the financial
system in Europe,” said Roger Francis, an analyst at Mizuho in
London. “They’re haggling about timing of a Spanish program
rather than talking about the downside for it.”  Spain has no plans to ask for a bailout soon,Rajoy said in
 Madrid  yesterday. A request would further fuel the rally
triggered by the  European Central Bank ’s plan to buy bonds of
countries that ask for a rescue, according to Harpreet Parhar, a
strategist at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in London.  Spanish Swaps  Swaps on Spanish government debt rose for the first time in
five days, increasing four basis points to 382.5. The contracts
have traded in a 50-basis point range since ECB President  Mario
Draghi ’s plan was announced, after dropping from a record 640 on
July 24.  “A Spanish bank bailout request would be positively
interpreted by markets, and in our view would re-ignite the
Draghi-induced rally,” Parhar said. The market’s acceptance
that it’s a question of timing “means we should see less
volatility around the ‘will they, won’t they’ headlines.”  Markit Group Ltd.’s financial benchmark fell by the most in
more than two weeks to near the lowest since July 2011 and is
converging with a broader gauge of investment-grade bond risk. A
decline signals improvement in perceptions of  credit quality .  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings eased three basis points to 129,
pushing the difference between the measures to 59 basis points
from 107 on Aug. 27. The subordinated index declined 10 basis
points today to 326.  Crossover Index  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped seven
basis points to 551.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Bonds of Banque PSA Finance, the financing unit of PSA
Peugeot Citroen, made up three of the top five price gainers in
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Non-Financial Corporates
index.  The carmaker’s 4 percent bonds due 2015 climbed 0.54 cent
today to 95.48 cents on the euro, pushing the yield to a two-
week low of 6 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The securities slumped to a 2 1/2-month low of 94 cents on Oct.
1 as  Europe ’s second-biggest auto company suffers from the debt
crisis in Europe, where it relies on the bulk of its sales.  Investor Meetings  France ’s Societe Anonyme de Gestion de Stocks de Securite,
or Sagess, was the first of two companies announcing plans for
investor meetings in a day bare of any new European corporate
bond sales. The company, which manages France’s strategic oil
reserves, will meet investors across Europe in the week starting
Oct. 8.  U.K.-based Great Places Housing Group Ltd. will also meet
investors from Oct. 8.  Companies across Europe issued almost 50 billion euros
($64.5 billion) of debt in September, the busiest month for non-
financial issuance since May 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  