-- Banks, Insurers to Invest in Spain ‘Bad Bank’ With 15-Year Life
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-10-03T09:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/banks-insurers-to-invest-in-spain-bad-bank-with-15-year-life.html
Spain  wants banks, insurers and other
investors to control Spain’s so-called bad bank, which will
digest soured real estate assets of lenders over 15 years,
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said.  Private investors will hold at least 55 percent of the
vehicle’s equity and subordinated debt, de Guindos told
Parliament in  Madrid  today. Nationalized banks, which include
the  Bankia (BKIA)  group, will be the first to transfer assets to the
bad bank starting in December, he said.  Spain is setting up a bad bank, a mechanism also used in
countries such as Ireland, to house the real estate of lenders
to help shed assets that consume capital and to create
conditions for loan growth. The creation of the vehicle follows
the publication on Sept. 28 of independent stress tests that
showed seven Spanish lenders had a capital deficit of 59.3
billion euros ($76.6 billion) in an adverse scenario.  “The transfer price is linked to the real economic value
of the assets and will be established through a thorough
revision of their quality,” de Guindos said. “This price will
ensure the profitability of the company and will make possible
the incorporation of private investors.”  The vehicle will pay banks that transfer assets with debt
that they can use as collateral for loans from the  European
Central Bank , de Guindos said.  There will also be a tranche of equity made up of capital
and subordinated debt bought by the government’s bank rescue
fund and private investment funds, he said. That tranche will
amount to 10 percent of the company’s assets, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  