-- Banks May Split $50 Million Advising on T-Mobile-MetroPCS Merger
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-10-03T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/banks-may-split-50-million-from-t-mobile-metropcs-merger-1-.html
Banks advising on  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE) ’s merger of its T-Mobile USA Inc. unit with  MetroPCS
Communications Inc. (PCS)  may earn at least $50 million if the deal
goes through, according to research firm Freeman & Co.  First in line are Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
lead advisers to Deutsche Telekom and MetroPCS, respectively.
The amount they’ll split with other banks, which may range from
$50 million to $80 million, is at least 36 percent less than the
$125 million advisers would have gotten if  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s $39
billion bid for T-Mobile last year had succeeded, according to
New York-based Freeman.  The money may help ease the concern of deal advisers
reeling from the slowest quarter for mergers and acquisitions
globally in more than two years. Deutsche Telekom’s agreement
yesterday with MetroPCS would give T-Mobile more heft to compete
with  Verizon Wireless , the largest U.S. mobile-phone company,
and No. 2 AT&T.  It’s difficult to value a deal when one of the sides is
closely held, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford
Bernstein & Co. in New York. An optimistic view would value
MetroPCS’s shares at about $18 in the transaction, including the
cash, he said. That would imply a market value of $6.5 billion.  Walt Piecyk, an analyst with BTIG LLC in New York, said the
merger values MetroPCS at $15 to $16, assuming the companies are
able to deliver on their promise of synergies. MetroPCS shares
 sank  9.8 percent yesterday to $12.24 in New York.  Deal Advisers  Deutsche Telekom received advice from Morgan Stanley
bankers Jim Murray, Adam Shepard and Bob Eatroff. The German
carrier also got help from Lazard Ltd., as well as law firms
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz;  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton
LLP ; K&L Gates; and Wiley Rein LLP.  MetroPCS worked with bankers at JPMorgan including Fred
Turpin, Anwar Zakkour, Jessica Kearns and Paul Finger. The
carrier also received advice from John Trousdale, Don Birchenough and Bill Raincsuk at Credit Suisse Group AG, while
Evercore Partners Inc. banker  Michael Price  gave a fairness
opinion to its board. The company worked with law firms Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher LLP,  Paul Hastings , Telecommunications Law
Professionals,  Akin Gump  and Fulbright & Jaworski.  Morgan Stanley is currently No. 2 and JPMorgan third in
global advisory rankings based on market share, behind Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. All
three are based in New York. Credit Suisse is No. 6 and Lazard
11th, according to the data.  Deal’s Terms  Deutsche Telekom,  Germany ’s largest phone company, will own
74 percent of the new U.S. mobile operator, and MetroPCS
investors will get $1.5 billion in cash, the companies said. The
merged entity will keep the T-Mobile name and be led by John Legere, the former chief executive officer of Global Crossing
Ltd. who took over Deutsche Telekom’s U.S. unit last month.  Should T-Mobile back out of the agreement, the company
would owe Richardson, Texas-based MetroPCS $250 million, Legere
said. The reverse breakup fee that MetroPCS would pay is $150
million, a fraction of the fee AT&T had to pay after scrapping
its offer for T-Mobile amid regulator opposition.  According to the terms of that deal, AT&T had to pay Bonn-
based Deutsche Telekom a $3 billion breakup fee in cash,
transfer radio spectrum to T-Mobile and strike a more favorable
network-sharing agreement. Deutsche Telekom had valued the
breakup package at as much as $7 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  