-- Barracuda Networks Gets $130 Million From Sequoia, Francisco
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-10-03T18:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/barracuda-networks-gets-130-million-from-sequoia-francisco-1-.html
Barracuda Networks Inc., a provider
of security and data-protection systems, raised $130 million
from  Sequoia Capital  and  Francisco Partners  to speed global
expansion and provide cash to founders and early employees.  Sequoia and Francisco, which first backed the company in
2006, increased their stake with this investment, though the
valuation wasn’t disclosed. The Campbell, California-based
company is also paying a cash dividend of 96 cents a share to
existing shareholders, Chief Financial Officer David Faugno said
in an interview.  Founded in 2003, Barracuda is profitable and generates
hundreds of millions of dollars in annual revenue, selling
security, spam-filtering and storage systems to more than
150,000 customers. In July, the company said co-founder Dean Drako was resigning as chief executive officer and a search was
under way for his replacement. Faugno said that Barracuda hopes
to announce a new CEO soon and, coupled with this investment,
will then start looking toward an initial public offering.  “Setting up the business for optimal success is important
so that when we do hit the public markets, the governance of the
company and management structure is appropriate for making that
leap,” Faugno said.  All three founders, including Drako, are staying on the
board and still have significant ownership in the company,
Faugno said. Sequoia, a venture capital firm based in  Menlo
Park ,  California , and Francisco, a private equity firm in San
Francisco, already have seats on the seven-person  board .  Product Investments  Barracuda, known for its advertisements in airports, has
1,000 employees in 16 countries, and sells its product through
partners in 80 countries. Competitors include  Palo Alto Networks
Inc. (PANW) , which sold shares to the public in July, Juniper Networks
Inc. and Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.  The new funds will help Barracuda expand its sales,
development and support operations and may also be used for
acquisitions, Faugno said. The company is investing in all of
its products, which include hardware appliances, virtualized
backup and recovery systems and cloud-based software. In
particular, the product is gaining traction in the small and
medium-sized business market.  “They’ve done a wonderful job of putting together a value
proposition and creating a solution that’s often a 10th the
cost” of traditional products, said Jim Goetz, a partner at
Sequoia and a Barracuda director.  This investment “puts the company in position to go
public, and we put in a governance structure that’s very
different than the founder-controlled structure,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  