-- Basel Bound to Cave on Stable Funding Plan, Nykredit Says
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-10-04T09:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/basel-bound-to-cave-on-stable-funding-requirement-nykredit-says.html
Nykredit A/S,  Europe ’s largest issuer
of covered bonds backed by home loans, says the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision  is likely to give in to Danish pleas to
adjust a stable funding rule the bank says will kill short-term
mortgage bonds.  “I think they will listen, and I have the feeling they are
listening,” Soeren Holm, Nykredit’s chief financial officer,
said in an interview. “We feel that the adjustable-rate
 mortgage loans  are going to continue.”  That’s why Nykredit has no plans to abandon its one-year
notes, used to finance mortgages as long as 30 years, he said.
The Copenhagen-based bank says the securities will constitute
the “main part” of 136 billion kroner ($24 billion) in bonds
it plans to sell in refinancing auctions starting next month.  Basel, which wants banks to move away from such short-term
funding, has excluded liabilities with effective maturities of
less than one year from its definition of stable funding. The
Danish central bank and Moody’s Investors Service also argue the
securities pose a refinancing risk to Denmark’s $496 billion
mortgage bond market, which is the world’s third largest after
the U.S. and  Germany . Nykredit fired Moody’s in April, citing
disagreement over its methodology.  Denmark’s next-biggest mortgage lender after Nykredit,
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  unit Realkredit Danmark A/S, isn’t taking any
chances over Basel’s net stable funding rule. The bank is
weaning borrowers off adjustable-rate loans funded by one-year
bonds by charging higher fees and through advertising campaigns.
The Basel proposal is under review by the European Commission
and due to be enforced in 2018.  Rising Share  More than half of all outstanding household mortgage debt
in Denmark is financed by adjustable-rate bonds, according to
the Association of Danish Mortgage Banks. The share of
adjustable-rate notes, which also come in maturities of three
and five years, rose 9.1 percent in the second quarter to 55
percent, it estimates.  The Basel proposal requires that 65 percent of a loan’s
funding comes from sources defined by the committee as stable,
said Peter Jayaswal, deputy director at the association.
Deposits are deemed stable funding, even though they can be
withdrawn at any time, he said.  ‘No Sense’  “It makes no sense,” Jayaswal said in an interview. The
association is submitting trading data as part of the European
Commission’s rule review in the hope a graduated approach to
weighing the bonds will be adopted. That would find the notes
stable when issued and add haircuts as they near maturity.  “We have the evidence that they are 100 percent stable,”
Jayaswal said.  According to Holm at Nykredit, international regulators
will recognize that Denmark’s mortgage system is supported by
domestic institutional buyers such as pension funds. Local
investors held 86 percent of Danish mortgage bonds at the end of
August, central bank data show. That ownership provides stable
funding, Holm said.  Homeowners have tapped the adjustable-rate loans as
investor demand for assets out of AAA rated Denmark drove
 interest rates  to record lows. The central bank cut its lending
rate to 0.2 percent in July, and brought its deposit rate to an
unprecedented minus 0.2 percent in an effort to keep capital out
and protect the krone’s peg to the euro.  Debt Crisis  Investors seeking refuge from Europe’s debt crisis have
been undeterred by Denmark’s housing and regional banking
crises, focusing instead on the country’s stable public
finances. Property prices have sunk about 25 percent since their
2007 peak, and will decline 3.5 percent on average this year,
the government estimates.  If investors change their view on Denmark and interest
rates start to rise, homeowners relying on adjustable rates
become more vulnerable, the central bank warns.  Moody’s cut Nykredit’s issuer rating on May 30 by three
steps to Baa2, with a negative outlook. The ratings company,
which chose to publish its views even though the bank had
terminated its contract, also downgraded Nykredit’s covered
bonds, saying the maturity mismatch between the securities and
the loans added “very significantly” to refinancing risks.  Nykredit has an A+ rating from  Standard & Poor’s  and is
graded A at  Fitch Ratings , both with a stable outlooks.  ‘Different Opinion’  “I know Moody’s has a different opinion,” said Holm.
“But still, it’s been confirmed by two and it’s my belief that
actually the European Commission and other bodies think that
it’s a relatively good way of doing things that we have in
Denmark.”  Nykredit has made some adjustments to accommodate the
concerns. The bank this year began limiting the use of
adjustable-rate bonds to cover the first three-quarters of a
loan. The rest is financed using long-term, fixed-rate bonds,
which don’t require the bank to provide supplementary collateral
if  house prices  fall. The industry’s shift toward spreading
auctions over a calendar year, instead of a single December
refinancing, has also reduced risks, Holm said.  Danish banks and the government are also lobbying to
prevent Basel from reclassifying mortgages as traded assets,
which would require them to set aside additional capital.
Basel’s liquidity coverage ratio proposal will probably be eased
to accommodate most of  Denmark ’s demands, Holm said.  “I’m not that pessimistic,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  