-- Bernanke May Owe Milton and Anna Another Apology
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-10-03T22:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/bernanke-may-owe-milton-and-anna-another-apology.html
“I would like to say to Milton and
Anna: Regarding the Great Depression. You’re right, we did it.
We’re very sorry. But thanks to you, we won’t do it again.”  --  Ben Bernanke , Nov. 8, 2002  That was how Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
concluded his  remarks  at a  University of Chicago  conference
honoring  Milton Friedman  on his 90th birthday. Anna is Anna Schwartz, Friedman’s less famous yet no less significant
collaborator who died in June.  In his speech, Bernanke refers to Friedman and Schwartz’s
“A Monetary History of the  United States : 1867-1960,”
published in 1963, as “the leading and most persuasive
explanation of the worst economic disaster in American history,
the onset of the Great Depression.” Their research, which
countered decades of Keynesian orthodoxy on the 1930s, placed
the blame for what they dubbed the Great Contraction of 1929-
1933 squarely at the feet of the Fed.  Bernanke read “Monetary History” as a graduate student
and became a self-described Great Depression buff. Not convinced
the 1929-1933 contraction of the  money supply  was sufficient to
account for the fall in output, he offered an additional
explanation in a  1983 paper , “Nonmonetary Effects of the
Financial Crisis in the Propagation of the Great Depression.”
Bernanke posited that the failure of financial institutions and
increased cost of credit intermediation were partly to blame for
the protracted decline in output and prices.  Theory Tested  Little did he know that, 25 years later, he would get an
opportunity to test his academic theory.  How did he fare? Bernanke may have inadvertently repeated
some of the same mistakes of the 1930s, in the view of some
monetarists.  The parallels between the two periods are striking,
according to Robert Hetzel, author of “ The Great Recession:
Market Failure or Policy Failure? ” In both instances, the Fed
attributed the recession to the bursting of an asset bubble and
resulting insolvencies of financial institutions. In both
instances, policy was focused on facilitating the flow of
 credit .  “In neither instance did policy makers make any
association between a central bank and money creation,” writes
Hetzel, a senior economist and research adviser at the Richmond
Fed.  The similarities don’t end there. During both the Great
Depression and the  2007-2009 recession , policy makers viewed low
 interest rates  as a sign of easy policy. The same goes for the
high level of  excess reserves , the deposits banks hold at the
central bank over and above what is required. The Fed
unwittingly aborted the mid-1930s economic recovery when it
raised  reserve requirements  in 1936-1937 to absorb the excess
reserves banks were holding as a precaution against bank runs,
according to Friedman and Schwartz.  What did the banks do in response? They cut  lending  so they
could rebuild their excess reserves to desired levels.  Lesson learned? Apparently not. Fast forward seven decades,
and the Fed started paying interest on excess reserves,
“increasing the incentive for banks to hold more excess
reserves, just as it did in 1936-1937,” says David Beckworth,
an assistant professor at Western  Kentucky  University in  Bowling
Green , Kentucky.  He said that in a  blog post  in October 2008. Beckworth is
part of a group of market monetarists who advocate a  nominal
gross domestic product  target for the Fed. Nominal GDP plummeted
in 2008-2009. And in the last four years it has grown at the
slowest pace since the Great Depression.  New Assessment  It has taken your humble correspondent a few more years
than Beckworth to come around to the view that the Fed isn’t
running a recklessly easy policy. As I said in an  Aug. 1 column ,
I have started to rethink monetary policy, partly in response to
the results it has produced (lousy) and partly in response to
 recent research  (provocative). Because the economy is stuck at
sub-2 percent growth, and because the only bang from fiscal
policy comes from monetary policy -- unless the Fed monetizes
the spending, it’s just a transfer of resources -- the Fed must
bear primary responsibility.  The Fed was slow to start easing before the recession even
though there were  warning signs  that policy was tight. The Fed
had been raising its  benchmark rate  in small steps from June
2004 to June 2006, when it reached 5.25 percent. Long-term rates
peaked at about that time and headed lower, inverting the yield
curve, a reliable  harbinger of recession .  Yet the Fed waited until September 2007 to start cutting
rates. Shortly thereafter, in December, the Fed announced the
creation of the first of many  credit facilities  to funnel loans
to specific sectors and borrowers.  Bernanke was putting his nonmonetary solutions into
practice. He was also ignoring Friedman and Schwartz, at least
initially, by neutralizing the increase in the  monetary base 
with offsetting sales of Treasuries. The Fed didn’t begin to
expand its balance sheet aggressively until after the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. on Sept. 15, 2008. And much of
the increase in the money supply merely satisfied the elevated
money demand on the part of the public and the banks, which
Hetzel documents in his book.  Last month the Fed made an  open-ended commitment  to buy $40
billion of mortgage-backed securities a month until the  labor
market  improves. Listening to Bernanke explain how this third
round of quantitative easing works, it seems he’s still focused
on credit policy.  Yes, buying mortgage securities -- actually buying anything
-- expands the money stock. But Bernanke sees that as a
byproduct, not the focus, of monetary policy.  The Fed needs to get out of the business of ministering to
existing or potential  homeowners ; that’s fiscal policy. Nor
should the Fed be selling its entire portfolio of short-term
Treasuries in exchange for long-term notes and bonds under the
guise of stimulus.  It’s time for the Fed to put the “money” back in monetary
policy. Maybe a re-reading of Friedman and Schwartz is in order.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  pastors who cross the
political line ;  Susan Antilla  on  educating individual investors ;
 Ezra Klein  on the broad consensus behind  narrow partisan fronts ;
Jonathan Mahler on  Washington ’s annoying  obsession with the
Nationals ; Cass R. Sunstein on  why regulators are listening to
you ;  Enrique Krauze  on hopes for a  miracle in Venezuela .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 