-- Billionaire Glasenberg Bets on Coal Rebound With Xstrata: Energy
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-10-04T13:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/billionaire-glasenberg-bets-on-coal-rebound-with-xstrata-energy.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s Ivan Glasenberg, who built a $6 billion fortune trading bulk
commodities, is anticipating a rebound in coal prices from a 31-
month low to justify his $33 billion bid for  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)   Xstrata, the world’s largest exporter of coal burned by
power stations, this week recommended Glencore’s sweetened offer
after initial opposition from shareholders. The fuel accounted
for 24 percent of Zug, Switzerland-based  Xstrata’s 2011 sales .  Glasenberg’s quest for Xstrata follows a 24 percent plunge
in coal prices in the past year, caused in part by the U.S.
shale gas revolution. The combined company will have interests
in about 35 coal mines in  Colombia , Africa and  Australia , and
account for about 10 percent of global seaborne exports, putting
Glasenberg’s reputation for well-timed deals on the line.  “The timing of this merger for Glencore is probably very
good,”  Christopher LaFemina , an analyst at Jefferies Group
Inc., said in an interview. “Buying Xstrata during a period
when coal margins are nearing a cyclical trough is smart.”  The bet on coal by Glasenberg, 55, Glencore’s chief
executive officer, is based on assumptions that would underpin a
coal price recovery, analysts said. One is that the explosion of
natural gas from shale in the U.S. won’t be seen anytime soon in
other nations, where it likewise may send prices plunging for
gas, the main alternative to coal in power generation.  Biggest Takeover  The acquisition of Xstrata, which would be the largest
takeover of 2012, is expected to be cleared by Dec. 31, the
companies have said. Xstrata’s support for the deal brings
Glasenberg another step closer to a transaction that’s been five
years in the making. The one-time coal trader is Glencore’s
largest shareholder, with a 16 percent stake valued at about 3.8
billion pounds ($6 billion) at yesterday’s share price.  Glencore declined to comment for this story.  Coal at the Australian port of Newcastle slumped to $81.15
a metric ton on July 20, the lowest since December 2009,
according to data from IHS McCloskey.  Thermal coal margins are set to improve in the next two to
three years as producers respond to lower prices by shutting
operations, LaFemina said. “It’s not a good environment to
develop a coal mine now. Supply will get constrained and demand
will recover.”  Prices will rebound to average $100 a ton this year and
remain in that range during the next two years, according to
Macquarie Group Ltd. estimates. Chinese miners may have idled
output equivalent to as much as 300 million metric tons of
capacity this year, or 7 percent of the national total, brokers
including Mirae Asset Securities Co. and Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. said in August.  Coal Bet  The Glencore deal “is a bet” on coal, said  Jeff Largey ,
an analyst at Macquarie Group in  London . Glencore is well-
positioned through its marketing and trading businesses to
increase coal margins because of its ability to match buyers and
sellers and blend different grades, he said in an interview.  “Glencore must be assuming, as we do, that coal remains
key to the energy mix for decades,” Largey said. “Coal still
accounts for about 80 percent of the energy production in  China 
and 45 percent in  Japan  and coal will remain the baseload for
Japan even as it moves away from nuclear, so globally it’s not
possible to get away from coal.”  Glasenberg isn’t the only billionaire betting on coal.
Evraz Plc, the Russian steelmaker part-owned by  Roman Abramovich , said today it agreed to raise its indirect stake in
coal producer OAO Raspadskaya to 82 percent by buying out
management.  More Profitable  Power plants worldwide will increase their use of coal by
an average 2.3 percent a year from 2009 to 2035, the
International Energy Association said last year, basing the
forecast on current energy policies. That was a higher growth
rate than the IEA predicted for gas, hydroelectric or nuclear in
the period, while oil use was forecast to fall.  In  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest electricity market, cheaper
coal prices have made it more profitable to switch from burning
gas. The so-called dark-spark spread for the next quarter
widened to a record 22.75 euros on Sept. 21 and was at 22.67
euros on Oct. 2. Data began in October 2009 for the measure of
profit from burning coal instead of gas.  Gas futures slumped to a decade-low in  New York  in April,
helping to spur energy utilities to burn more of the fuel and
rely less on coal. Power generation from U.S. gas-fired  power
plants  matched output of coal-burning plants for the first time
in April, according to the Energy Department in  Washington .  The resulting collapse in U.S. coal prices and demand has
led to tens of millions of tons of coal-production cuts in the
U.S. this year.  U.S. Exports  Another consequence has been a jump in the nation’s coal
exports, which were up 58 percent to 24.5 million tons in the
first half of 2012, Barclays Plc said last month. Prices have
correspondingly dropped in Europe and  Asia .  “A problem in the seaborne thermal coal market is that low
U.S. shale  gas prices  push U.S. coal to the export market and
thus cap the price,” LaFemina said.  Colombian coal is already being shipped to European
customers after some U.S. customers switched to gas, Paul Gait,
an analyst at Bernstein in London, said in a phone interview.
About 5 billion cubic feet a day of coal-to-gas switching for
power generation in the U.S. has helped increase U.S. coal
exports to Europe by 72 percent since 2010, Bernstein said in a
report last month.  “The U.S. is really the tail of the dog,” said David Beard, an analyst at Iberia Capital Partners in New Orleans,
explaining that the world turns to  North America  when there are
supply disruptions elsewhere.  Australian Mines  Xstrata produced 72.4 million tons of coal used to generate
electricity in 2011, mostly from Australian and South African
mines and sold in Asia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It also mined 12.9 million tons of metallurgical coal used to
make steel. The price for that type of coal has also slumped
this year after Chinese demand slowed.  Glencore, which has coal mines in Colombia and  South
Africa , sold 91 million tons of thermal coal and 4 million tons
of metallurgical coal in 2011. The Baar, Switzerland-based
company holds a 34 percent stake in Xstrata and has an agreement
to trade the other company’s coal exports.  Glasenberg last month raised Glencore’s offer to 3.05
shares for each Xstrata share from an original ratio announced
in February of 2.8. The move came after Qatar Holding LLC, the
nation’s sovereign wealth fund and Xstrata’s largest shareholder
after Glencore, said the first bid was too low.  Copper, Zinc  Combining the two Swiss businesses would create the world’s
fourth-largest mining company. Glencore, the biggest publicly
traded commodities supplier, would also get Xstrata’s copper and
zinc mines, creating a group with 130,000 employees in more than
40 nations.  Glasenberg started his commodities career in 1984 on the
coal desk of Marc Rich & Co., working in the coal departments in
South Africa for three years and then in Australia for two. He
became head of the firm’s coal unit in  Switzerland  in 1991. By
1994, he was part of the management team that bought out the
company and changed its name to Glencore.  Gas prices have already rebounded 79 percent in trading in
New York since touching the low on April 19, improving the
attractiveness of thermal coal.  The shale gas revolution that has upended the U.S. energy
scene may not be repeated in other major economies. The gas
industry faces opposition in Europe over the environmental
impact of fracking. While China may have large shale gas
reserves, the physical infrastructure such as pipelines and
processing plants required to tap that wealth in remote regions
hasn’t been developed yet, said Gordon Howald, a New York-based
analyst at Doyle Trading Consultants.  “The U.S. built the shale gas industry in three to four
years,” he said in an interview. “That’s not going to happen
in China; it’ll be 10 to 20 years if at all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  