-- BlackRock’s Fink Says U.S. a Year Away From Robust Growth
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-10-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/blackrock-s-fink-says-u-s-a-year-away-from-robust-growth.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Laurence D. Fink,
who has been trying to persuade retail investors to get out of
cash, said the U.S. is about a year away from having a more
robust economy.  “When you talk about macro issues in the U.S., our banking
system is far better than most banking systems and our housing
crisis is 90 percent behind us,” Fink, chairman and chief
executive officer of the  world’s largest  asset manager, said in
an Oct. 1 interview from his New York office.  Fink has been urging investors for more than a year to buy
equities as the  U.S. economy  expanded and the stock market
rallied. BlackRock today started the third phase of a five-year
branding campaign, with a series of advertisements telling
savers to get out of cash and low-yielding bonds and suggesting
they put money in high-quality stocks, exchange-traded funds and
products that generate higher income.  BlackRock, which Fink co-founded in 1988 and then built
through a series of acquisitions into a $3.56 trillion manager,
is seeking to expand by attracting assets rather than making
transformational deals. Fink has added top executives such as
Philipp Hildebrand, the former head of the Swiss central bank,
to help expand relationships with institutional clients
overseas, and Linda Robinson, who joined as head of marketing
and communications last year and oversees the branding campaign.  Euphoria, Despair  BlackRock started running ads in February, telling
investors how to allocate their money in an uncertain market.
Fink and other executives have said publicly that investors need
to diversify and can be harmed by staying in cash-like products.  “We’re in a world of moments of euphoria and moments of
despair,” Fink said. “It’s very hard for anyone to get out of
the bunker and do anything more pro-actively.”  The U.S., the world’s largest economy expanded at a 1.3
percent annual pace in the second quarter after growing at a 2
percent rate from January through March, Commerce Department
figures showed Sept. 27. Fed Reserve officials see growth this
year at 1.7 percent to 2 percent, according to forecasts
released last month.  The U.S. benchmark  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  has risen 15
percent this year and the MSCI ACWI Index of global stocks has
increased 11 percent.  Teachers, Firefighters  Some of BlackRock’s ads feature teachers and firefighters,
reflecting the firm’s work with institutional investors
including pension funds. As of the end of 2011, more than 60
percent of BlackRock’s total long-term assets were managed for
institutional investors.  Specific funds mentioned in the advertisements include the
$891 million  BlackRock Multi-Asset Income Fund (BAICX) , which has
returned 11 percent this year, ahead of 55 percent of similarly
managed funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The $24
billion  BlackRock Equity Dividend Fund (MDDVX) , which is also
highlighted, has returned 12 percent this year, trailing 57
percent of rivals.  “We think that equities are the place to be for the next
several years,” Chris Leavy, BlackRock’s chief investment
officer for U.S. fundamental equity, said in a telephone
interview. “We think they’re priced to return 9 percent to 10
percent a year because of cash generation through dividends and
buybacks and modest profit growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  