-- BlackRock Leads Firms Poised to Win From Hedge Fund Ads
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-10-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/blackrock-leads-firms-poised-to-win-from-hedge-fund-ads.html
The firms most likely to benefit
first from new rules that would allow hedge funds to conduct
wide advertising campaigns aren’t hedge funds.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest money manager, offers
alternative investments and supports the change. So does
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank by assets, said two
people familiar with its position, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private. The companies have the
marketing breadth to seize the opportunity, while hedge funds
and private-equity firms with smaller promotional teams may be
hindered as investors turn to alternatives for higher returns.  The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, signed into law by
President  Barack Obama  in April, ended a ban on the advertising
of non-registered securities as part of an effort to expand
funding options for startup companies. The law may give the
biggest advantage to firms with trillions of dollars in assets
and create a divide between asset managers that offer hedge
funds, private equity and other alternatives and those that
don’t, such as traditional mutual-fund companies.  “The JOBS Act is something where the advantage is for
hedge funds, but they don’t have the skills for it and the
traditional managers that have alternatives have the
capabilities to take advantage of it,” Benjamin Phillips, a
partner at consulting firm Casey, Quirk & Associates in Darien,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is responsible
for writing the rules to implement the law and commissioners
voted 4-1 on Aug. 29 to invite public comment on their proposal.
Comments are due Oct. 5.  ‘Reasonable Steps’  The proposed rules say issuers must take “reasonable
steps” to ensure the only purchasers of private securities are
so-called accredited investors, without mandating what those
steps are.  Accredited  generally means those with more than $1
million in assets, excluding primary residences, or people
earning more than $200,000 a year. The proposal has drawn
criticism from investor-protection groups and the Washington-
based Investment Company Institute, which say consumers may be
exposed to misleading advertisements by firms that sell private
securities.  The SEC also didn’t spell out acceptable types of
advertising, which could allow general solicitation such as
television and website ads. BlackRock and others may be able to
reach more than 7.6 million U.S. households that  qualify  as
accredited investors, according to government estimates. Private
offerings raised about $1 trillion last year, SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro said at an Aug. 29 meeting of the agency.  ‘Great Disinfectant’  “We are supportive of the JOBS Act and the SEC’s proposed
rule as we believe sunshine is a great disinfectant and it’s
time to take private placements out of the dark,” Barbara Novick, BlackRock’s head of government relations and public
policy, said in an e-mailed statement.  Lauren Post, a spokeswoman for New York-based BlackRock,
declined to comment beyond the statement.  Charlotte  Powell, a
spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined to comment.  BlackRock, which oversees $3.56 trillion, is trying to
expand by attracting assets rather than making transformational
deals. It started a five-year branding campaign earlier this
year telling clients how to invest in an uncertain market. Chief
Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink and other executives have
said publicly that investors need to diversify and can be harmed
by staying in cash-like products.  The third phase of BlackRock’s branding initiative starts
today, with advertisements appearing in the Wall Street Journal
and Financial Times and on digital media sites such as
Bloomberg.com. The advertisements suggest investors consider a
broader mix of assets and put money in exchange-traded funds,
high-quality stocks and products that generate more income.  JPMorgan Unit  Private-equity and hedge funds can be important sources of
portfolio diversification and should be readily accessible to
those who are eligible to invest, Novick said in a May 3 comment
letter to the SEC.  Last year, BlackRock expanded its alternatives division,
which manages real estate, private-equity and hedge funds, and
had $104 billion under management as of June 30.  Banks including JPMorgan provide traditional mutual funds
as well as alternatives such as hedge funds and private-equity
investments. New York-based JPMorgan’s asset-management unit was
the world’s third-largest hedge-fund manager, with $46.6 billion
in assets, as of Oct. 31, 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The unit manages $1.3 trillion.  Other money managers that sell alternatives include  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Pacific Investment Management Co. and  Franklin
Resources Inc. (BEN) , which said it agreed to buy a majority stake in
K2 Advisors Holdings LLC, a fund-of-hedge-funds manager, in
September. Spokesmen for the firms declined to comment on the
advertising opportunity provided by the JOBS Act.  ‘Barbell’ Strategy  “This is going to allow larger fund complexes to offer a
wider array of products to their current clients,” said Adam Sussman, partner and head of research at Tabb Group, a  New York- 
based research and consulting firm. “It opens the door for the
retail investor to gain access to new asset classes and new
types of investments” as they learn about them.  The advertising change may spur wealthy investors to follow
a strategy favored by institutions, Sussman said. Pensions and
endowments increasingly are using a so-called “barbell”
approach: They invest part of their money as cheaply as they can
in passive, index-tracking strategies including ETFs. When they
do pay higher fees for active management, it’s for alternative
investments such as hedge funds with the most flexibility.  Traditional Firms  The advertising provision in the JOBS Act was part of a
package designed to make it easier for young companies to grow.
The loosening of rules regarding the marketing of unregistered
securities was meant to help startups and small businesses
including fund companies raise money and then hire more workers.  Many traditional hedge funds won’t be well-positioned to
market to the general public soon after the rules become
official because their capacity for new capital is limited and
their infrastructures aren’t designed to double or triple the
number of investors, said Ray Nolte, chief investment officer at
SkyBridge Capital LLC, a fund-of-funds business based in New
York.  “Most hedge funds aren’t set up to be the large mutual-
fund complexes with call centers and everything else that handle
huge influxes,” Nolte said. They may not change their approach
to include mass marketing through billboards and television
advertisements because they already have a client base and are
protective of revealing too much about their investment
strategies, he said.  ‘More Nimble’  Large asset managers have “deep pockets” and advertising
professionals on staff because they’re in businesses like mutual
funds that generally haven’t had restrictions on who to sell to,
said  Uri Landesman , president of New York-based hedge fund
Platinum Partners, which has $1.15 billion in assets.  “It gives them a little bit of an edge, but we’ll make up
for it by being smarter, more nimble and having fewer products
to worry about,” Landesman said.  Most of the largest asset managers are still traditional
players without well-developed alternatives capabilities,
according to Casey Quirk’s Phillips. Firms that only offer
mutual funds may lose assets as a result of the JOBS Act, he
said. Investors have pulled $585 billion from actively managed
U.S. stock mutual funds that invest domestically from January
2008 through this August, according to data from the  ICI .  “The JOBS Act continues to pile on competitive pressure
because they’re not offering non-correlated investment
returns,” Phillips said. “Those that only offer mutual funds
will look further and further behind.”  Competitive Imbalance  The SEC proposal creates a competitive imbalance because it
doesn’t standardize how private funds can advertise their
performance while mutual funds have restrictions around such
claims, said Mercer Bullard, an associate professor of law at
the University of  Mississippi . Mutual funds are valued on a
daily basis according to regulatory requirements while hedge
funds have fewer mandates on when and how to mark their assets,
said Bullard, who’s also founder of the investor-advocacy group
Fund Democracy.  “There could be investor confusion between which ads are
for which types of products,” said Bob Grohowski, senior
counsel for the ICI.  ICI’s Position  Private funds should be required to state in their
advertisements that the investments are distinct from mutual
funds and not appropriate for everyone, the ICI said in a May
comment  letter . The government should restrict performance
claims and increase the $200,000 income threshold for who
qualifies as an accredited investor since it was set in 1982,
the trade group said. The SEC didn’t include those
recommendations in its  proposal .  Traditional mutual-fund companies including Vanguard Group
Inc.,  T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW)  and American Funds, a unit of the
Capital Group Cos. directed inquiries for comment to the ICI.
BlackRock and JPMorgan are also members of ICI, which has 256
member firms.  “Some of the more traditional mutual-fund managers should
feel very threatened by this,” Bullard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  