-- Black ‘Human Zoo’ Fury Greets Berlin Art Show
-- B y   S h i r l e y   A p t h o r p
-- 2012-10-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/black-human-zoo-fury-greets-berlin-art-show.html
A performance-art show with half-
naked black people that’s touring  Europe  has drawn protests
during its visit to Berlin. Activists have termed it 
“a human zoo.”  White stage director Brett Bailey’s “Exhibit B” features
museum-style installations of living models in static poses
designed to highlight the troubled history of European
colonialism in  Africa .  Black activists demonstrated at the Kleiner Wasserspeicher,
which is showing the work as part of the “Foreign Affairs”
Festival, after acclaimed stagings in Brussels and Grahamstown,
 South Africa .  “This is the wrong way to discuss a violent colonial
history,” said Sandrine Micosse-Aikins, a member of
 Buehnenwatch , the organization which instigated the protest.  In one piece, a black woman sits above a cooking pot,
holding a skull and a shard of glass. A plaque describes how
Namibian women in concentration camps had to boil and scrape
clean the skulls of their menfolk so that they could be sent to
 Germany  for scientific examination in the early 20th century.  In another display, photographs of severed black heads
stuffed and skewered on metal prongs recall the work of Eugen
Fischer (1874-1967), the German professor of anthropology and
eugenics whose theories of “racial hygiene” guided the Nazis.  Below them, the heads of four living Namibian singers seem
to float above plinths. They sing beautiful Herero songs about
genocide, in counterpoint to the grisly displays.  Asylum Seekers  Contemporary asylum seekers are on show alongside a supine
representation of Angelo Soliman, an 18th-century Nigerian
philosopher and confidant of Maria Theresa and Emperor Joseph I.
Upon his death in 1796, Soliman’s body was stuffed and displayed
in a glass case alongside wild animals.  An earlier version of the show, “Exhibit A,” opened at
Vienna’s Festwochen in 2010 and went on to Braunschweig,
Germany, and Helsinki.  On Oct. 2, a post-performance public debate took place in
Berlin below the photographs of Fischer’s severed heads.  South African-born spoken-word artist Philipp Khabo
Koepsell stood up to challenge Bailey directly.  “If you have a white South African director giving orders
to black performers to tell their story voicelessly, you’re not
breaking the legacy,” Koepsell said. “You are enforcing and
reproducing it. You can call it whatever you like, but the fact
is that you as a white, privileged person are sitting there and
ordering black people around.”  Zoo Denial  “This is not a human zoo,” Bailey replied. “It’s
performance theater. In every city where we show this work, we
work with local performers who take control of it.”’  Collivan Nsorockebe Nso plays asylum-seeker Aamir Ageeb, a
20-year-old Sudanese man who was suffocated by German border
authorities on a passenger flight from  Frankfurt  in 1999.  In “Exhibit B,” he sits bound on an aircraft seat, his
mouth gagged with white packing tape, meeting the eyes of
observers with an expression of pleading anguish. The
accompanying plaque lists the names of 14 immigrants who died
while resisting deportation from Europe between 1991 and 2010.  “This is my story,” Nso said. “I’m a Cameroonian, and I’ve
been in Germany since 2002. I should have been deported in 2006.
I hate talking about it. It’s so painful. I don’t want sympathy;
this is how we live every day. There is this silence, but we
need to talk about these things.”  Marcellinus Swartbooi, one of the four singers playing
Fischer’s heads, said: “These are my ancestors. These skulls
come from my country. This project was for me a mission, a
healing process. It is an educational tool for an audience.”  When  organizers  called a halt to the public debate at the
end of the allotted 45 minutes, the protestors remained, some of
them shouting, until security guards ushered them out of the
building.  “Exhibit B” goes on to Avignon,  France ; Paris,  Rome ,
Edinburgh and  London .  Information:  http://www.berlinerfestspiele.de   (Shirley Apthorp writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,  Jason
Harper  on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Shirley Apthorp in Berlin at  sarabande100@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 