-- BNP Is Coming Under Pressure With SocGen to Isolate Risk
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-10-03T07:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/bnp-socgen-face-heightened-push-to-isolate-risk-as-assets-swell.html
French lenders’ trading assets have
grown to almost match the size of the nation’s economy, making
them vulnerable to government efforts to wall off banking risk.  Investment-banking  units of  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , Societe
Generale SA,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Natixis (KN)  SA have 2.05
trillion euros ($2.64 trillion) in trading assets, including
bonds, equities and derivatives, data compiled from the banks
show. That’s a 21 percent jump in the 12 months to June and a
two-year high, just shy of  France ’s $2.77 trillion gross
domestic product.  “The very growth of these market products creates systemic
risk,” said  Jean-Paul Pollin , a professor at France’s Orleans
University. “Interconnections among players rise, even assuming
that on the micro level the risks are well checked.”  The increase in banks’ trading assets comes as a European
Union-commissioned group, led by Bank of Finland Governor Erkki Liikanen, yesterday presented a report that recommends a “legal
separation of certain particularly risky financial activities
from deposit-taking banks within the banking group.”  French President  Francois Hollande , elected in May, has
pledged to overhaul the country’s banking industry -- which has
the biggest holdings in public and private debt in the euro-
area’s troubled economies -- to better separate the consumer and
the riskier investment-banking operations.  The EU report found that Paris-based BNP Paribas and
Societe Generale, together with Barclays Plc of  London ,
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc of Edinburgh had the highest proportion of trading
assets, accounting for more than 30 percent of total assets. The
value of trading assets fluctuates with their market
performance.  ‘Disproportionate Costs’  BNP Paribas’s spokesman Pascal Henisse declined to comment
on the Liikanen report, as did  Societe Generale (GLE) ’s spokeswoman
Nathalie Boschat, Credit Agricole’s spokeswoman Anne-Sophie Gentil and Natixis’s spokeswoman Barbara Durand.  The French Banking Federation in a statement yesterday
cautioned against “measures that would lead to a
disproportionate increase in costs, even to the disappearance of
some market activities useful for the economy.”  European efforts to shield deposits from risky activities
mirror measures proposed in the U.S. and the U.K. Named after
former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , the U.S. plan
would ban commercial lenders from proprietary trading.  Bank Split  The U.K.’s Vickers proposals, from a group led by the
former Bank of England Chief Economist  John Vickers , recommended
banks separate their consumer and investment banking units.  Hollande pledged during his campaign to split retail and
“speculative” operations at French banks. His finance
minister,  Pierre Moscovici , said on Sept. 22 in Asperg,  Germany ,
that he favors keeping the French “universal” banking model.  Still, French banks’ ballooning derivatives businesses may
invite greater regulatory scrutiny.  Trading in derivatives for BNP Paribas increased 48 percent
to 446.1 billion euros in the 12 months through the end of June.
For Societe Generale, it rose 38 percent to 242.8 billion euros.  “The very big decline in  interest rates  in the period
mechanically triggered a re-evaluation of interest-rate
derivatives in our balance sheet,” BNP Paribas spokesman
Henisse said in an e-mail.  Risky Business  Excluding its derivatives trading-book, BNP Paribas’s
financial assets shrank by 25 percent in the 12 months through
June as it cut governments bonds, equities and its repurchase-
agreement holdings, according to its website. Societe Generale’s
financial instruments excluding derivatives fell 10 percent.  “If derivatives exposures increase, it means that market
risks don’t decline and the too-big-to-fail issue lingers,”
said Christophe Nijdam, an analyst at AlphaValue in Paris.  Concern that they had gotten too big to save drove French
banks to shrink some of their corporate- and investment-banking,
or CIB, operations. They unveiled plans to cut 5,000 CIB jobs
and sell assets to meet stricter capital and liquidity rules.  “BNP Paribas, Societe Generale and  Credit Agricole  have
been doing their job” in complying with stricter capital rules
and reducing assets, said Jerome Forneris, who helps manage $8
billion at Banque Martin Maurel in Marseille and owns shares in
the banks.  The three banks shrank their corporate- and investment-
banking risk-weighted assets by a combined 116 billion euros in
the year through June to meet stricter Basel III capital rules.  Toward Safety  BNP Paribas’s capital-market activities “serve clients’
needs without taking large market positions,” Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Laurent Bonnafe said Sept. 26 at a London
conference. BNP Paribas says its market risks represent 6.3
percent of its total risk-weighted assets.  In the past five years, France’s largest bank had only 10
days when losses exceeded its value-at-risk, showing “the
robustness” of its model, he said. Banks use value-at-risk
models to predict maximum potential trading losses under extreme
market conditions.  Societe Generale  trimmed risk-weighted assets at the
corporate and investment bank by 33 billion euros in the period,
mostly by cutting subprime-era portfolios, bank data shows. The
company has “refocused trading activities and reduced risk
appetite,” it said on Sept. 26.  Credit Agricole said its CIB unit cut 44 billion euros in
risk-weighted assets in the 12 months through June 30. It has
“no proprietary trading desks left” and is exiting its most
complex structured rates and equity-derivatives business,
according to a Sept. 26 presentation by Jean-Yves Hocher, head
of the division.  ‘Slimming Cure’  For all those cuts in risk-weighted assets, the banks’
trading books have still expanded, showing they remain
vulnerable, said AlphaValue’s Nijdam.  “The slimming cure should also show up as a reduction of
the cash balance sheet,” which it hasn’t, he said.  French banks, while opposing an outright split between
deposit-taking activities and investment banking, may be willing
to accept measures like the Volcker rule.  Societe Generale CEO Frederic Oudea said in a Sept. 13
Bloomberg Television interview that “perhaps a Volcker rule”
could be applied to the European universal banking model, which
is “the right one” for the region.  Most bankers oppose a return to the separation between
retail and investment banks. It might be needed to fully protect
retail customers, University of Orleans’ Pollin said. “Vickers
does prohibit movements of capital and liquidity between an
investment and a retail bank, and that’s key,” he said.  Any move in that direction may hurt France’s largest banks,
said Martin Maurel’s Forneris.  “BNP and Societe Generale are leaders in euro bonds and in
equity derivatives,” he said. “These activities provide
corporates with financings and hedgings. How can you split them
without putting in danger the banks’ profitability?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net 
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 