-- BOE Maintains Bond-Buying Plan as Split Over QE Looms: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-10-04T13:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/boe-officials-sow-seeds-for-stimulus-split-as-qe-round-nears-end.html
Bank of England  officials voted to
complete their latest round of stimulus amid intensifying
dissent on inflation risks that threatens to cause a rift on
future aid for the economy.  Governor  Mervyn King ’s nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee left the  bond-purchase target  at 375 billion pounds
($604 billion), as forecast by all 40 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. By next month’s meeting, they’ll have finished
spending the 50 billion-pound round they started in July,
forcing a decision on whether more stimulus is needed.  Rising commodity costs are feeding price pressures, and
policy maker Ben Broadbent has said the BOE’s capacity to add to
quantitative easing is limited by faster-than-expected
inflation. Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  warned last month of the
risks from prolonged loose policy. Their stance may not be
enough to overcome the views of a majority of officials who have
said it’s likely that more stimulus will be required.  “Next month’s decision will take place against a
background which might make members think a bit harder as to
whether more QE is justified,” said  Philip Shaw , an economist
at Investec Securities in  London . “We still expect the MPC to
sanction a further 50 billion pounds, but the decision could be
a close call.”  Bank of England policy makers also left their  key interest
rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent.  The pound rose 0.4 percent against the dollar today and was
at $1.6145 as of 2:35 p.m. Gilts declined, pushing the 10-year
yield up 3 basis points to 1.71 percent. It fell to the lowest
in more than three weeks yesterday as investors sought the
relative safety of U.K. debt amid the euro-area turmoil.  ECB Decision  The  European Central Bank  kept its  benchmark rate  at 0.75
percent today, as predicted by 48 out of 52 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Four projected a 25 basis-point cut.  “Economic growth in the euro area is expected to remain
weak, with ongoing tensions in some euro area financial markets
and high uncertainty still weighing on confidence and
sentiment,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  said at a press
confernce after the decision.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  will keep its policy unchanged tomorrow,
according to all 20 analysts in a poll. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and fellow BOJ policy makers are meeting for the first
time since Seiji Maehara was named economy minister Oct. 1.
Maehara is pushing the BOJ to consider buying foreign bonds and
said he plans to tomorrow attend the second day of the BOJ’s
meeting, the first minister to do so since 2003.  Minutes  In the U.K., the Bank of England’s Dale and Broadbent
highlighted inflation risks in the past month, with Dale
cautioning against “Pavlovian” calls for more stimulus.  “Prolonged and aggressive monetary accommodation, combined
with increasingly unconventional policy tools, also comes with
potential costs and risks,” Dale said.  The minutes of today’s decision, showing how each MPC
member voted, will be released on Oct. 17. Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  raised questions in an interview last week on the
efficacy of more stimulus. “We still think QE works, even if in
some respects it does not have the same bite it used to have,”
he said.  U.K. inflation  cooled to 2.5 percent in August. The BOE
sees it averaging 2.1 percent in the first quarter of 2013 and
reaching the 2 percent goal by the end of the year.  Policy makers, who will have new forecasts at their Nov. 8
decision, said last month that rising energy prices mean
inflation is “less likely to fall back further during the
second half” of 2012 than projected in August. While  oil prices 
have eased since reaching $100 a barrel last month, they are
still up about 15 percent from a 2012 low at the end of June.  Recovery Watch  As U.K. policy makers await signs of recovery, King said on
Sept. 21 that the economy is likely to grow  this quarter  for the
first time in a year after a 0.4 percent slump in the three
months through June. Still, he said he wouldn’t use the phrase
“green shoots.”  Bank of England policy makers are also monitoring their
two-month-old Funding for Lending program and its impact on
credit. The FLS is designed to encourage lending and promote
growth by giving banks access to cheap funding.  The debt crisis in  Europe , the U.K.’s biggest trading
partner, is clouding the outlook, and recent reports have cast
doubt on the strength of Britain’s recovery.  Services growth 
slowed more than economists forecast in September, while
manufacturing and construction shrank.  House prices  fell for a
third month and will probably remain little changed into 2013
amid a “weak” economy, Halifax said today.  German factory orders probably slid 0.5 percent in August
from the previous month, economists said in a survey before a
report tomorrow.  Australia  reported August retail sales that
were below economists’ estimates, while a gauge of  service
industries  rose to a seven-month high in  India . In the U.S., the
 Federal Reserve  will publish the minutes of its Sept. 12-13
meeting later today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  