-- BofA Agrees to Sell 12-Building New Jersey Office Campus
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-10-04T12:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/bofa-agrees-to-sell-12-building-new-jersey-office-campus.html
(Corrects spokeswoman’s name throughout.)  Bank of America Corp.  agreed to sell
a 12-building office campus in central  New Jersey  that it
inherited from Merrill Lynch & Co., part of the company’s
efforts to cut costs.  The property in Hopewell Township, serving about 6,500
employees, went under contract last month and the transaction is
expected to be completed by the end of the year, Jennifer
Darwin, a spokeswoman for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
bank, said today in a telephone interview. She declined to name
the buyer or the price.  Real Estate Alert, a trade newsletter, reported today that
New York-based  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  agreed to buy the
complex for $375 million to $400 million. Gordon Runte, a
spokesman for Fortress, didn’t immediately respond to a phone
message seeking comment.  The deal may become the biggest office sale on record in
New Jersey, surpassing the $377.5 million paid last year for the
Newport Tower in  Jersey City , according to data from Real
Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based real estate research
firm. Bank of America, the second-largest U.S. lender, said in
February that it planned to sell all its real estate except its
headquarters tower in Charlotte and One  Bryant Park , its New
York base, which it co-owns. That strategy remains, Darwin said.  Not Core  “Corporate real estate ownership is not really a core
business for Bank of America,” she said. “This deal is in line
with our intent to create efficiency and manage our space more
effectively.”  The company intends to sign a long-term agreement with the
new owners to lease back space it uses at the 1.8 million-
square-foot (167,000-square-meter) campus, which primarily
serves its Bank of America Merrill Lynch unit, she said. The
company bought Merrill Lynch in 2009.  Real Estate Alert said the company would have the option to
vacate 20 percent of the space after three years, and after
eight years, it could leave another 20 percent. Darwin declined
to discuss terms of the lease.  Nicholas Derasmo, a spokesman for Bank of America’s broker,
New York-based Cushman & Wakefield Inc., referred questions to
the bank.  Properties the bank has sold this year include the Hearst
Tower, Charlotte’s fourth-tallest building; and 100 Federal St.
in  Boston . It partially leased back space in both buildings. The
company is seeking buyers for the Wake Forest University
Charlotte Center in downtown Charlotte, and 540 West Madison St.
in  Chicago , Darwin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  