-- Suicide Attacks Leave 33 Dead in Aleppo, Syrian TV Says
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-10-03T22:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/bombs-in-central-aleppo-leave-as-many-as-30-dead-reports-say.html
Anti-government forces launched
coordinated attacks on the downtown area of  Syria ’s commercial
hub of Aleppo yesterday, as mortar rounds and suicide attackers
with car bombs left at least 33 people dead and 75 injured,
state television said.  Two explosions occurred minutes apart at the Saadallah al-
Jabri Square, a popular part of the city that includes a
military officer’s club and a hotel, Syrian state television
said. They were caused by vans rigged with more than 1,000
kilograms (2,200 pounds) of explosives, the Interior Ministry
said in a statement carried by Syrian Television.  A third car rigged with 500 kilograms of explosives blew up
near the municipality, the ministry said. The three attacks were
carried out by suicide bombers, the ministry said.  Syrian rebels seeking to oust President Bashar al-Assad
last week announced a push to drive out government troops from
the city. The Syrian army plans an offensive in the eastern part
of the city to dislodge the rebels, the pro-government Al-Watan
newspaper said yesterday.  A fourth attack was caused by a car that blew up near the
central bank and the chamber of commerce as authorities were
dismantling a 1,000-kilogram bomb inside it, the Interior
Ministry said. It said “terrorists” blew it up remotely.  The effects of the blasts were multiplied as mortar rounds
fell on the square and three gunmen wearing explosives belts and
Syrian army uniforms walked into the area, the station said. It
said they were caught and killed.  Turkish Deaths  Rescue workers at the scene removed body parts and debris
littering the streets. Footage on state television also showed
two cafes wrecked in the blasts and residential buildings
flattened.  In  Turkey , a Syrian shell hit a house in the center of a
border town, killing a woman and her four children and marking
the first Turkish deaths from cross-border Syrian fire. Labor
Minister Faruk Celik told members of Turkey’s parliament that
five people were killed and eight wounded, two of whom were in
serious condition.  Turkey’s army fired across the Syrian border in response to
shelling from Syria.  Syrian Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi said authorities
have begun an investigation into the sources of the firing into
Turkey, the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency reported, citing
Syrian TV. Al-Zoubi offered the Syrian government’s condolences
to the family of those killed in the incident and to the Turkish
people, SANA reported.  Regional and international efforts have failed to end 19
months of bloodshed in Syria which has killed more than 30,000
people, according to estimates by the opposition Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights.  Syrian security forces killed at least 122 people across
the country yesterday, most of them in Damascus and its suburbs,
the Local Coordination Committees, an opposition group, said in
an e-mailed statement. The estimates couldn’t be independently
verified.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  