-- Branson Wins Rail Reprieve as U.K. Quashes FirstGroup Award
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   T o m   M e t c a l f
-- 2012-10-03T16:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/branson-wins-rail-reprieve-as-u-k-says-franchises-flawed-1-.html
Richard Branson  was handed a lifeline
that may keep him in U.K. rail after  FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  was stripped
of Britain’s West Coast inter-city route, which it won from his
Virgin Group in August. FirstGroup fell almost 21 percent.  The contest to run London to  Scotland  expresses was halted
because of “serious flaws” regarding the choice of FirstGroup’s
5.5 billion-pound ($8.9 billion) bid, according to Transport
Secretary Patrick McLoughlin, who said staff have been suspended
and three other franchise tenders frozen. Among errors was a
failure to take full account of inflation and passenger numbers.  Branson, who planned to quit U.K. rail after a West Coast
decision he reckoned reflected the “insanity” of the franchise
system and could bankrupt FirstGroup, said in an interview he
aims to win the contract when it’s retendered and may seek more
routes. The Department for Transport detected errors only after
Virgin argued the award was based on a defective assessment of
the relative risks of bids and pursued a judicial review.  “I am pleased to say that the DfT has looked at all of the
facts and found significant flaws in the way its officials
handled the process,” the billionaire said in his online blog,
adding that McLoughlin called him in  New York  to relay the
findings. “They have basically acknowledged that what we had
been saying is correct. We are hopeful they will now accept that
Virgin Trains should carry on running the West Coast main line.”  FirstGroup Plunge  Aberdeen, Scotland-based FirstGroup  dropped  as much as 22
percent, the steepest tumble since a 1995 listing, and closed
50.60 pence lower at 193.40 pence in London. That reflects the
loss of “significant” short-term  cash flow , said  Gert Zonneveld , an analyst at Panmure Gordon in London who rates the
stock “hold.” The shares fell 6.1 percent on Aug. 15, the day
of the contract award, on concern that the bid was too high.  FirstGroup Chief Executive Officer Tim O’Toole said in a
statement that the DfT made clear his company wasn’t at fault.  Virgin Trains is closely held, with Branson owning 51
percent and  Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC) , which closed 1.9 percent
higher at 288.80 pence. Stagecoach said today it will hold
discussions with the DfT and update the market as appropriate.  ‘Breathtaking’  Ed Miliband , leader of the opposition  Labour Party , said
the revelations have disclosed a “screw-up” and a “fiasco.”
Christian Wolmar, a transport historian and the author of
“Broken Rails,” an analysis of the U.K.’s train network, said
they cast doubt over a host of earlier contract awards.  “The extent of this catastrophe is breathtaking,” Wolmar
said. “The key embarrassment is not for the civil service but
the government, who said the process was robust and fair. What
about the past franchises. Have they been evaluated properly?”  The West Coast route, operated by Virgin since 1997, was
due to transfer to FirstGroup for at least 13 years on Dec. 9.  The decision threatened to exclude Branson from the U.K.
rail industry for the first time since its privatization. The
Virgin founder said he made a “strong and deliverable” offer for
the West Coast line, which transports 31 million people a year
to cities including Birmingham, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Liverpool
and Manchester, and was unlikely to ever run a railway again.  Branson Ambitions  Virgin has been outbid for franchises on four occasions,
and in three cases the winning operator came “nowhere close to
delivering their promised plans and revenue,” according to
Branson, who had said the West Coast bid cost 14 million pounds.  The DfT said it had already spoken with Virgin, FirstGroup
and the other two bidders, French state railway SNCF and NV
Nederlandse Spoorwegen of the Netherlands, and would reimburse
their expenses. A fresh West Coast contest will begin “as soon
as the lessons of this episode are learned,” it said, and talks
will start today to decide who will run the line in the interim.  Branson told Bloomberg Television that McLoughlin had
apologized for the DfT’s errors in a late-night phone call, and
predicted that Virgin would “hold the reins” on the West Coast
route over the next year or so pending a new bid process.  “As runners up we’d like to have our bid accepted and
moved forward but it looks like they will put it all back out to
tender again,” he said. Virgin will rebid provided the process
is fair and could also now seek to run the East Coast route and
apply to run trains through the Channel Tunnel, he said.  ‘Shambolic’  Maria Eagle, the Labour transport spokeswoman, said the
West Coast award had exposed “shambolic incompetence” in the
Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition.  “The government’s belated admission that it ran a flawed
tendering process will come as a surprise to no one,” she said
in a statement. “Passengers and staff deserve immediate
reassurance about the future of the West Coast service.”  In addition to the suspension of the Great Western, Essex
Thameside and Thameslink franchise awards, the government should
also abandon the privatization of the East Coast main line,
which is currently in state hands, she said.  McLoughlin, who has been in charge of transport for less
than four weeks, said on BBC radio’s Today program that while a
“terrible mistake” had been made, there would be no impact on
rail operations or bookings. Errors that may have included
bidders being given different information came to light only as
the DfT compiled its defense against Virgin’s legal case, which
is no longer being contested, he told  Sky News .  Three officials involved in the West Coast competition have
been suspended while the full facts are established and two
independent reviews have been ordered, the DfT said.  Independent Reviews  One, overseen by Sam Laidlaw, CEO of  Centrica Plc (CNA) ,
Britain’s top energy supplier, and  Ed Smith , formerly of
accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, will examine the
West Coast award and report back by the end of this month,
McLoughlin said. The other, under Eurostar Group Ltd. Chairman
 Richard Brown , will evaluate the wider franchising process and
deliver findings by the year’s end.  The Association of Train Operating Companies said by e-mail
that it would engage with the review of franchising, adding that
the system “has delivered for the country,” with rail travel
more popular than at any time since the 1920s.  Britain’s Institute of Directors said in a statement that
the failure of the franchise model was “shocking” and that the
tendering process must be “whiter than white.”  ‘Disappointed’  FirstGroup’s O’Toole had said his bid was justified by the
ability to maintain compound annual revenue growth at 10 percent
by adding capacity. The company said today that prior to its
notification of the DfT findings there had been no indication of
“any issues” with the franchise-letting procedure.  “We are extremely disappointed to learn this news and
await the outcome of the DfT’s inquiries,” it said. “The DfT
have made it clear to us that we are in no way at fault, having
followed the due process correctly.”  FirstGroup already runs the Great Western route to  Wales 
and western  England , against which it took a 59.9 million-pound
charge last year in turning down a three-year contract extension
to boost its chances of retaining the franchise for longer.  Virgin Trains lost its only other contract, the long-
distance CrossCountry network, in 2007.  Branson had been keen to develop stations on the 1,660-mile
West Coast network to include innovations such as bank branches
after his Virgin Money Holdings U.K. Ltd. agreed to buy Northern
Rock Plc last year for 747 million pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Jasper in  London  at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Metcalf in London at 
 tmetcalf7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  