-- Bristol-Myers Returns Sanofi Drug Rights as Patents Expire
-- B y   M a r t h e   F o u r c a d e
-- 2012-10-03T20:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/bristol-myers-squibb-to-return-plavix-avapro-rights-to-sanofi.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  agreed to
return rights for the blood thinner Plavix and the hypertension
medicine Avapro to its French partner Sanofi now that the drugs
are losing patent protection.  Bristol-Myers will retain rights to Plavix in the U.S. and
 Puerto Rico , the companies said in a joint e-mailed statement.
The two partners also resolved all disputes about their
marketing alliance, they said.  Both drugmakers have bought companies and products to
replace Plavix, which at its 2011 peak sold $7.09 billion a
year. New York-based Bristol-Myers reported a 60 percent sales
drop for the medicine in the second quarter after U.S. patent
protection lapsed in May. Generic competition to Plavix and
Avapro wiped out 331 million euros ($427 million) from  Sanofi (SAN) ’s
profit that quarter.  The expiring patents meant there was “a strong rationale
to simplify the structure” of the alliance, Eric Le Berrigaud,
an analyst at Bryan, Garnier & Co. in Paris, said in a note to
clients. “We see an opportunity for Sanofi to operate with more
freedom and an easier coordination in several  emerging
markets .”  Bristol-Myers will get royalties on Sanofi’s sales of
branded and unbranded Plavix and Avapro through 2018 as well as
a terminal payment of $200 million in December of that year. The
Plavix agreement for the U.S. and Puerto Rico will follow the
terms of the existing accord between the two companies and
expire in December 2019.  Bristol-Meyers  fell  1.2 percent to $33.55 at the close of
 New York  trading. Paris-based Sanofi rose less than 1 percent to
68.07 euros.  Disputes Over  “This revised agreement simplifies operations and supports
Bristol-Myers Squibb’s ability to focus on delivering our
promising, innovation-driven R&D portfolio,” Chief Executive
Officer Lamberto Andreotti said in the statement.  Bristol-Myers agreed to buy Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. for
$5.3 billion in June, adding the diabetes drugs Bydureon and
Byetta. Sanofi yesterday agreed to buy Genfar, a Colombian
drugmaker that operates throughout  Latin America .  The new agreement takes effect Jan. 1. The resolution of
disputes includes “various commitments” from each party and a
one-time payment of $80 million by Bristol-Myers related to a
disruption last year in the U.S. supply of Avapro, also known as
Avalide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marthe Fourcade in Paris at 
 mfourcade@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  