-- Bulgaria May Raise at Least $165 Million From Asset Sales
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-10-03T11:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/bulgaria-may-raise-at-least-165-million-from-asset-sales-2-.html
Bulgaria , struggling to keep a narrow
budget deficit to contain the fallout from the euro-debt crisis,
plans to raise at least 250 million lev ($165 million) from
asset sales this year.  The government plans to sell by the end of the year stakes
in the Bulgarian Stock Exchange and the Central Depository, the
Bulgarian State Railways Freight Services Unit, the country’s
biggest weapons maker, two energy utilities and two military
aviation maintenance plants, Privatization Agency Executive
Director Emil Karanikolov said in an interview in Sofia
yesterday.  “Our revenue estimate is based on minimum prices, which I
hope will be exceeded in the sale auctions,” he said. “It is
possible that some of these transactions are completed at the
beginning of next year, depending on the time some of the
investors will need to examine the companies they’re
acquiring.”  Bulgaria, the European Union’s poorest country in terms of
economic output per capita, weathered the global crisis without
borrowing from international lenders. The government is working
to cut the budget gap to 1.3 percent of gross domestic product
this year from 2.1 percent last year to help contain the impact
from the euro-area crisis. Economic growth slowed to 0.5 percent
from a year earlier in the second quarter.  More than three-quarters of Bulgaria’s economy is privately
owned after it sold state assets in the two decades following
the collapse of communism in 1990. The government seeks to sell
the few minority stakes it has left in military equipment plants
and power distributors.  Bulgarian Stock Exchange  In about a month, the privatization agency plans to
announce the auction for the sale of a 50.05 percent stake in
the Bulgarian Stock Exchange and a 43.7 percent stake in the
Central Depository AD, the securities settlement company,
Karanikolov said. The agency has to complete the evaluation,
legal analysis and marketing strategy for the two stakes that
will be sold together, he said.  The sale of the state’s 33 percent stake in the two
Bulgarian units of Czech utility Energo-Pro on the stock
exchange started today. Ninety-seven percent of it was sold for
64.7 million lev, or 27 percent above the initial share price,
Ilian Scarlatov, chief executive officer of KBC Securities
Bulgaria, said in a phone interview today. If the remaining
shares are sold at the same prices as today, the government will
get a total price of 68 million lev for the stake, less than the
70 million lev estimated by Karanikolov.  CEZ  The sale involved shares in the grid operating and the
power distribution units, which were acquired by Energo-Pro last
year.  The agency will also sell on the stock exchange the
government’s 33 percent stake in the power distribution unit and
grid operating unit ran by the Prague-based  CEZ AS (CEZ)  in mid-
November, expecting to raise at least 100 million lev,
Karanikolov said.  CEZ has not decided whether it will bid for the stake,
though it may consider it “if the price is right,” spokesman
Ladislav Kriz said by phone today.  The agency plans to resume the auction for the 100 percent
stake in the Bulgarian State Railways Freight Services Unit in
two weeks, after its Supervisory Board revises the admission
criteria to let more investors participate, Karanikolov said.
The agency hired several marketing consultants including Ernst &
Young LLP and KBC Securities NV, to expand access to more
buyers, he said.  Bulgaria canceled a previous attempt to sell the railways’
cargo unit on July 18 after only one buyer,  Duet Group (DUE) , a
London-based investment company, applied for the tender.  Weapons Maker  Three potential buyers have expressed interest in buying a
100 percent stake in the Sopot-based Vazovski Mashinostroitelni
Zavodi, or VMZ, the country’s biggest weapons maker, Karanikolov
said. The candidates include Bulgarian firms EMKO EOOD, Dunarit
AD, an explosives producer and Sage Consulting, an arms trader.
The plant, which exports the bulk of its weapons, produces
guided missiles, a range of mortar bombs and artillery
ammunition.  “The sale will probably be completed in January, as some
of the candidates still need clearance to access classified
information,” Karanikolov said.  The buyer will need to pay VMZ’s 47 million-lev debt to the
government plus a price for the stake, Karanikolov said without
elaborating.  Optimistic Plan  Also this year, Bulgaria plans to raise at least 15 million
lev from the sale of minority stakes in two military aviation
plants, Terem Georgi Benkovski in Plovdiv and Terem Vladimir
Zaimov in Bozhurishte, he said.  “It is an optimistic plan,” KBC’s Scarlatov said. “It is
quite possible that they will be able raise that amount, but not
this year. Most transactions take about three months to complete
and it is more realistic to expect some of them to close during
the first quarter of next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  