-- California Muni Bankruptcies a Growing ‘Disease,’ Kotok Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 2012-10-03T18:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/california-muni-bankruptcies-a-spreading-disease-kotok-says.html
Municipal bankruptcies in  California ,
where three cities have filed for protection from creditors
since June, are a spreading “disease” in the state, said David Kotok, chief investment officer at Cumberland Advisors.  In Atwater, a city of 28,000 southeast of San Francisco,
the council is set to vote today on declaring a fiscal
emergency, which would allow it to follow California
municipalities Stockton, San Bernardino and Mammoth Lakes into
bankruptcy.  Cities in the most-populous U.S. state can make such
declarations to bypass mediation with creditors before a Chapter
9 filing. Across California, the recession that ended in 2009
and the foreclosure crisis have depleted property-tax revenue
even as municipalities are burdened with rising costs.  “In California, we have a disease, and the disease is
spreading,” Kotok said today at the State & Municipal Finance
Conference hosted by  Bloomberg Link  in New York. “I suspect
we’re going to see wholesale warnings and downgrades” among
issuers in the state, he said.  Kotok helps manage about $2.1 billion as chief investment
officer of Sarasota, Florida-based Cumberland.  Rating Revisions  Moody’s Investors Service said in August that California
cities may face “across-the-board rating revisions” because of
the state’s volatile real-estate economy and “hands-off”
policy on local finances.  Atwater, situated among Merced County’s dairies and almond
groves about 100 miles (about 160 kilometers) from San
Francisco, has a $3.3 million deficit that may leave it
insolvent by year-end, according to budget documents.  Under a new state law, cities seeking bankruptcy protection
must first declare a fiscal emergency or hold talks with
creditors through a mediator. They can file for court protection
if mediation doesn’t bring a resolution in 60 days or if the
city runs out of money.  State officials have been successful “in taking as much
revenue as possible from local governments,” including
eliminating redevelopment agencies, said Miguel Santana, chief
administrative officer for Los Angeles, California’s largest
city.  ‘No Cushion’  “For most cities in the state, we’ve been forced to fend
for ourselves,” Santana said. “And unlike the state, we really
have no cushion.”  California cities can’t rely on the state government for
help, “we’re just hoping to be left alone,” Santana said.  Cities have been forced to shrink the size of their
governments, cut services, and handle pension and health-care
costs on their own, Santana said.  “Ultimately, bankruptcy becomes the option when you’ve run
out of options,” Santana said.  Municipal bankruptcies are “largely a self-inflicted
wound,” said David Crane, a public policy lecturer at Stanford
University near Palo Alto and a former special adviser for
former Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger.  “Nobody forced legislators and councilmembers to make
promises -- unfunded promises amounting to hundreds of billions
of dollars -- to their benefit, to their political benefit,”
Crane said.  Curbing Pensions  Ballot measures to curb public-employee pension costs
approved by about a two-thirds vote in San Diego and San Jose in
June should serve as “a wake-up call” to state lawmakers,
Howard Cure, director of municipal research at Evercore Wealth
Management LLC, which oversees $3.7 billion, said at the
conference.  Voters in San Diego and San Jose, California’s second- and
third-largest cities, supported changes that would require city
employees to contribute more toward their retirement and raise
the retirement age.  Unfunded pension liabilities stemming from promises made
during better economic times are straining municipal budgets,
forcing city officials to cut jobs and services to stay solvent.  “People are very upset and it’s sort of almost an us-
against-them mentality,” Cure said. “Legislators in  Sacramento 
have to start thinking about who their constituency is. Is it
the union members and state workers or is it the taxpayers?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hays in New York at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  