-- Canada Dollar Falls to 1-Month Low as Weak Data Damp Risk Demand
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-03T21:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/canada-dollar-falls-to-1-month-low-as-weak-data-damp-risk-demand.html
Canada’s dollar fell to its lowest
level in almost a month against its U.S. counterpart as a slump
in Chinese non-manufacturing industrial growth offset a private
report showing U.S. employers hired more workers than forecast.  The currency weakened for a second day before data Oct. 5
that economists project will show Canadian employers added fewer
workers last month. Crude oil, the nation’s largest export, fell
below $90 a barrel and euro-area services and manufacturing
output contracted in September, damping demand for riskier
assets.  “The story for the Canadian dollar has been one of
weakness that has stretched to all commodity currencies as  China 
has slowed and oil and other commodities drop,” said Greg Moore, currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said in a
phone interview. “The theme into the end of the year should
continue to be one of slower global growth and that should keep
pressure on risk currencies.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.4 percent to 98.76
cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched 98.84,
the weakest since Sept. 6. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0126.  Crude-oil futures dropped 4.2 percent to $87.99 a barrel in
New York. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent.  Bonds Drop  Government bonds rose, pushing the yield on the 10-year
government security down one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 1.71 percent. The 2.75 security maturing in June 2022
added 4 cents to C$109.15.  The Bank of  Canada  will announce details tomorrow for a
three-year note auction on Oct. 10.  Canadian issuers of junk loans are bypassing bank lenders
by tapping U.S. hedge funds and institutional investors to cut
costs for acquisitions, creating a market for the debt that may
eventually translate across the border.  Garda World Security Co., Canada’s largest security
company, is hosting a lender meeting today in New York to market
$350 million of loans mostly for non-bank investors. Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International Inc., Canada’s largest publicly
traded drug-maker, sold $1 billion to non-bank investors on
Sept. 28 as part of $2.75 billion of debt to back its buyout of
Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp.  Rate Forecast  Overnight Index Swap implied probabilities show 99.8
percent of the market expects no change in the central bank’s
benchmark rate at the Oct. 23 Bank of Canada meeting.  Governor Mark Carney on Sept. 5 held his key lending rate
at 1 percent, where it’s been since September 2010, the longest
unchanged period since the 1950s. Carney reiterated that an
increase “may become appropriate” as domestic spending props
up an economic recovery restrained by weak global demand for
exports.  “The global backdrop is weak, and it’s hard to see where
any extra stimulus is going to come from, which is a negative
for the Canadian dollar,” said David Watt, chief economist at
HSBC Bank Canada in Toronto. “With the economic climate still
negative there is nothing to be gained for the Canadian central
bank to remain hawkish with so many uncertainties ahead.”  The European Central Bank and the Bank of England are
scheduled to issue policy statements tomorrow.  “All eyes will now be looking ahead to central bank
releases tomorrow and Friday’s U.S. and Canadian employment
data,” John Curran, a senior vice president in Toronto at
CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer, wrote in
a note to clients.  Jobs Data  The 162,000 increase in U.S. employment for September
followed a revised 189,000 jump in August, figures from
Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Employer Services showed today.
The median forecast of 38 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected a 140,000 advance.  Canadian employers added 10,000 jobs last month, compared
with 34,300 the previous month, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of 24 economists. The jobless rate is projected to hold
at 7.3 percent.  China’s nonmanufacturing industries expanded at the weakest
pace since at least March 2011 as the purchasing managers’ index
fell to 53.7 in September from 56.3 in August. Readings above 50
indicate expansion.  Canada’s dollar has declined 1.4 percent during the past
month against nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The greenback
has dropped 1.2 percent.  “Risk-related currencies are trending lower, and that has
to have an influence on a currency like the Canadian dollar,
which is highly correlated to risk,”  Jack Spitz , managing
director of foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  