-- Carlyle Buys Hedge Fund Vermillion in Commodities Expansion
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-10-03T09:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/carlyle-acquires-hedge-fund-vermillion-in-commodities-expansion.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the second-largest
buyout firm, bought commodities hedge-fund manager Vermillion
Asset Management LLC, adding $2.2 billion in commodities assets
as the firm expands beyond private equity.  Carlyle purchased 55 percent of Vermillion for a mix of
cash, stock and performance-based payouts, effective Oct. 1,
Carlyle said today in a statement. The price wasn’t disclosed.  Vermillion, created in 2005 by Drew Gilbert and Chris Nygaard, will be part of Carlyle’s Global Market Strategies
business, headed by Mitch Petrick. That unit manages about $29
billion across 53 funds, and is a key component of the firm’s
strategy to offer more products outside of traditional corporate
buyout pools and win more commitments from investors worldwide.  “Our team looks forward to leveraging Carlyle’s global
network and deep knowledge of local markets to better exploit
trading opportunities and inefficiencies in the global
 commodities markets ,” Gilbert said in the statement.  Gilbert and Nygaard will continue to oversee the day-to-day
operations of Vermillion and remain co-chief investment officers
of its funds. The New York-based firm has 43 employees.
Vermillion focuses on investments spanning agricultural
commodities, precious metals, freight and energy across three
funds, according to the statement.  Viridian’s Returns  Viridian, Vermillion’s main fund, has posted an average
annual gain of 6.9 percent since inception in June 2005 through
July of this year, according to a letter sent to investors in
August that was obtained by  Bloomberg News . Commodity hedge
funds broadly rose 9 percent a year over the same time period,
according to the Newedge Commodity Trading Index.  The Viridian fund, which oversees $1.7 billion, rose 0.6
percent last year and fell 7 percent through July of 2012,
according to the investor letter. The fund follows a relative
value strategy of trying to spot situations in which commodities
trade outside their normal range, according to the letter.  The acquisition is Carlyle’s third investment in a hedge
fund in two years. It bought a 55 percent stake in  New York- 
based Emerging Sovereign Group LLC in June 2011 after purchasing
a majority holding of Claren Road Asset Management LLC in
December 2010.  Commodities Rally  Commodities jumped 11 percent in the third quarter, the
biggest gain since March 2011, as central banks and governments
announced plans to promote growth. Money managers added $1.56
billion to commodity funds in the week ended Sept. 26, with
$1.48 billion going to gold and precious metals, according to
 Cameron Brandt , the director of research for Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which tracks money flows.  As part of the deal, Carlyle agreed to give Vermillion
principals 1,439,788 shares over 4 1/2 years if certain
performance targets are met. Those shares would be valued at
$36.9 million at yesterday’s closing share price of $25.64.  Carlyle, based in  Washington , has $156 billion in assets.
Founded in 1987 by  William Conway ,  Daniel D’Aniello  and  David Rubenstein , Carlyle trails only Blackstone Group LP as a so-
called alternative-asset manager, as measured by assets under
management.  Carlyle completed an initial public offering earlier this
year, joining Blackstone, KKR & Co. and  Apollo Global Management
LLC (APO)  as publicly traded private-equity firms.  All of those firms have sought to bolster assets and start
or expand non-buyout businesses in part to satisfy public
shareholders who value the shares on recurring fees.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP provided legal advice to
Carlyle on the deal, while Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP and
Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP advised Vermillion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in  New York  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  