-- McCain Threatens to Block Contractor Payments From Pentagon
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-10-03T05:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/mccain-threatens-to-block-contractor-payments-from-pentagon.html
The top Republican on the Senate
Armed Services Committee said today he would move to block
Pentagon payments to  defense contractors  facing layoff-related
expenses from automatic budget cuts set to begin in January.  Senator John McCain of  Arizona  faulted guidance from the
Office of Management and Budget last week saying the government
would cover legal and compensation costs of contractors facing
spending cuts and held liable for not giving enough notice of
layoffs. He accused President  Barack Obama  of “telling
contractors to ignore the law” so that layoff notices wouldn’t
be delivered before the Nov. 6 election.  “Companies have a choice whether to rely on OMB’s
politically-motivated guidance or to comply with the law,”
McCain said in an e-mailed statement. “But I can assure them
that I will do everything in my power to ensure that taxpayer
dollars are not used to compensate contractors who do not comply
with the law.”  The automatic spending cuts, known as sequestration, would
take effect Jan. 2 if U.S. lawmakers and Obama fail to agree on
a long-term plan to reduce federal deficits. Military spending
would be reduced by as much as $500 billion over the next
decade, including as much as $54.7 billion in fiscal 2013.  Defense contractors, led by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , have
said they might be compelled to warn thousands of workers their
jobs might disappear. Under the 1988 Worker Adjustment and
Retraining Notification Act, most employers with 100 or more
workers must give 60 days’ notice of plant closings or “mass
layoffs” --cutbacks affecting 500 or more workers, or at least
33 percent of the workforce for companies with fewer than 500
employees.  No Warnings  The OMB said government contractors shouldn’t issue blanket
60-day notices to workers who might lose their jobs, citing
“uncertainty about whether sequestration will occur.” The
White House budget office instructed agencies to cover
liabilities incurred by contractors for failing to comply with
WARN Act requirements.  The OMB’s guidance “ensures that, if contract actions due
to sequestration were to occur, our employees would be provided
the protection of the WARN Act and that the costs of this
protection would be allowable and recoverable,” Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed said in an Oct. 1 statement announcing
it would not issue layoff advisories.  McCain said today he was requesting that the Defense
Department notify Congress of all costs associated with
sequester-related layoffs at least 30 days in advance of
reimbursing contractors for those costs.  “Furthermore, I have advised the Secretary that I intend
to deny any transfer of funds among defense accounts to pay for
these costs,” McCain said in the statement. It’s not clear how
McCain would block any transfers if the Senate remains in
Democratic hands after next month’s election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  