-- China Non-Manufacturing Index Declines as Economy Cools
-- B y   P a u l   P a n c k h u r s t
-- 2012-10-03T01:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/china-non-manufacturing-index-falls-as-economic-growth-moderates.html
China ’s non-manufacturing industries
expanded at the weakest pace since at least March 2011 as
officials struggle to reverse a slowdown in the world’s second-
biggest economy.  The  purchasing managers’ index  fell to 53.7 in September
from 56.3 in August, the National Bureau of Statistics and China 
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in Beijing today. 
Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  China’s ruling Communist Party is trying to retain public
support by sustaining growth while avoiding a resurgence in home
prices as it prepares for a once-a-decade handover of power that
begins at a congress in Beijing starting Nov. 8. Similar
measures for manufacturing showed contractions last month,
underscoring pressure on the government to roll out extra
support for the economy as export demand falters.  “The global slump in demand, especially from  Europe , will
remain a serious drag on growth in the near term,” Changyong Rhee, chief economist for the Asian Development Bank, said in a
statement today. The ADB cut its forecast for China's economic
growth this year to 7.7 percent from 8.2 percent.   China’s markets are closed this week for a holiday. In Hong
Kong, the Hang Seng Index rose 0.7 percent as of 9:45 a.m. local
time in the first trading day since a U.S manufacturing report
was better than forecast.  Monetary Policy  Today’s PMI number was lower than any previous reading in
data compiled by Bloomberg News and starting in March 2011. Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist with Bank of America Corp.,
previously described the gauge as low-quality, subject to
seasonal distortions and with much less “predictive power”
than equivalent surveys for manufacturing.  The government has accelerated approvals for investment
projects, lowered interest rates and boosted tax support for
exporters in response to the slowdown. At the same time,
authorities have refrained from easing monetary policy since
rate cuts in June and July and a May reduction in banks’ reserve
requirements.  Economic growth cooled to a three-year low of 7.6 percent
in the April-June period.  The economy may expand 7.4 percent in the three months
through September from a year earlier, based on the median
estimate of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News from Sept. 11
to Sept. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Beijing at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  