-- Clinton Says Afghanistan Security Transition ‘On Track’
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-10-03T18:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/clinton-says-afghanistan-security-transition-on-track-.html
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
said today that the effort to hand over responsibility for
security  to Afghan forces is on track as she described the
progress made in bringing stability to  Afghanistan .  “The transition is on track,” Clinton said at the start
of the U.S.-Afghanistan Bilateral Commission today. The
strategic partnership “will help guide the relationship as it
moves to the next phase,” Clinton said. She outlined progress
in health, education, media freedom and women’s rights in the
country.  Many other Afghan experts, including some in the U.S.
military, the intelligence community, and Clinton’s own State
Department, quietly disagree. They say the U.S. and its
coalition partners haven’t made sufficient progress training
self-sufficient Afghan forces, improving governance, curbing
corruption, and eliminating insurgent safe havens in  Pakistan  to
claim that coalition combat forces will be able to withdraw from
a stable Afghanistan by the end of 2014 as planned.  Anthony Cordesman of  Washington ’s Center for Strategic and
International Studies concluded in June that, “the odds of
‘success’ in creating a stable, secure, and democratic
Afghanistan moving towards economic development on a national
regional basis by 2014 -- or even 2020 -- are less than even. If
‘success’ is further defined in terms of adherence to modern
values of human rights and rule of law, respected throughout the
country, then the odds of ‘success’ seem bad to negligible.”  ‘Difficult Days’  Clinton, speaking at the State Department with Afghan
Foreign Minister Zalmai Rassoul, acknowledged past difficulties
and the likelihood of more ahead. “These past few months in
particular have presented obstacles and some potential
setbacks,” Clinton said, “and we know that difficult days lie
ahead.”  Whatever challenges lie ahead, the U.S. will stay the
course with Afghanistan, Clinton said, noting that commitment
was “forged in sacrifice.”  “Just a short time ago, we reached a grim milestone: 2,000
U.S. troops killed in Afghanistan,” Clinton said. “The
American people have invested a great deal in Afghanistan’s
future and, even though our role in Afghanistan is changing,
this partnership will continue.”  Insurgent Strength  About 5,000 insurgents have been reintegrated into civil
society, an effort that could become a “game-changer if and
when the political process takes off,” said British Army
Lieutenant General Adrian Bradshaw, the deputy commander of the
NATO-led International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan,
who spoke to reporters at the Pentagon today by satellite.  He estimated the size of the remaining insurgency at 30,000
to 35,000, though he said such estimates are “not completely
reliable.” There is general agreement on that, at least, as
U.S. officials have said that some insider attacks on coalition
forces have been carried out by Afghans working for the
coalition by day and the Taliban by night, much as the communist
Viet Cong did during the Vietnam War.  Bradshaw also said coalition and Afghan forces are uniting
in an effort to crack down on such “green-on-blue” attacks. At
least 51 coalition troops have died in such attacks so far this
year, compared with 35 last year, according to ISAF in Kabul.  Bradshaw today at first downplayed the problem, saying
insider attacks “account for just over 4 percent of our
casualties.” He subsequently acknowledged that they account for
about 20 percent of coalition troops killed in action, while the
4 percent figure includes troops who were wounded.  Casualties Decline  “We are all very seized with the need to grip this
problem,” he said. “It’s a tragedy when we lose our people for
any reason. But for this reason it is particularly hurtful, and
must be incredibly difficult for people to accept or
understand.”  Still, Bradshaw said, the total number of coalition
casualties has been reduced by about 40 percent compared to last
year, and the coalition remains on track to withdraw all combat
forces from Afghanistan by the end of 2014.  “As we move forward through the security forces assistance
model, we gradually disengage from the Afghan forces and the
risk will become less and less,” he said.  Bradshaw said Afghan President Hamid Karzai held a national
security council meeting a few weeks ago in which he instructed
his forces to crack down on the threat of insider attacks.  “This was real leadership right from the top, and it made
an immediate impact on his people,” Bradshaw said.  Even so, the insider attacks continue. Two Americans were
killed over the weekend in a suspected insider attack, only two
days after joint operations between U.S. and Afghan forces were
said to be returning to normal.  ‘Morale Threat’  Bradshaw said he could offer no more details on the most
recent attack because it remains under investigation.  “The threat that this represents to the mission is more of
a morale threat than a physical threat,” he said. “And that’s
why we take it very seriously.”  While saying the mission remains on track, Bradshaw stopped
short of promising that the insurgency would be vanquished by
the time coalition combat troops leave.  “My prognosis is that at the end of 2014, the insurgency
will be further reduced,” Bradshaw said. “It’ll still be a
challenge for security forces, but it’s one that I think they
will be more than adequately able to match.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  