-- Cnooc Discounted as Oil Stocks Slide on Economy: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-10-03T21:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/cnooc-discounted-as-oil-stocks-slide-on-economy-china-overnight.html
Chinese  oil companies  led declines in
an  index (HSCEI)  of the nation’s stocks in New York as the  Asian
Development Bank  lowering its growth forecast fueled concern
over a slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. sank 0.4 percent to 91.93 yesterday.
 PetroChina Co. (PTR)  retreated for the first time in three days as
crude slid to a two-month low, and  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  dropped to the
 biggest discount  to its  Hong Kong  stock in six days as trading
there resumed following a holiday. Aluminum Corp. of  China  fell
after canceling a plan to invest in a Mongolian coal exporter.  The ADB cut its forecast yesterday for Chinese economic
growth to 7.7 percent this year from a previous estimate of 8.2
percent. The Manila-based lender also said downside risk for
 China’s economy , which grew at the slowest pace since 2009 in
the second quarter, may intensify. The service sector expanded
at the  weakest pace  last month since at least March 2011, a
government purchasing managers’ index released yesterday showed.  “Investors are adjusting to the slowdown,”  Christopher Palmer , who helps manage $2.5 billion of assets as a London-
based director of global  emerging markets  for Henderson Global
Investors Ltd., said by phone yesterday. “How to get the
Chinese spending again is a really important issue. The
government clearly wants to get the non-manufacturing segments
going again.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., was little changed at 34.91.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  advanced for a third day, adding
0.4 percent to 1,450.99 as better-than-forecast growth in U.S.
employment and services data offset concerns over China.  Cnooc Discount  Cnooc, China’s  largest  offshore oil explorer, slid 1.2
percent to $201.19 in  New York , declining for the first time in
three days. The company’s American depositary receipts, each
representing 100 underlying shares in the company, traded 1.5
percent below its Hong Kong stock, the widest discount since
Sept. 25, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Alison Redford, the premier of  Canada ’s Alberta province,
asked the federal government to impose tougher management and
employment conditions on Cnooc’s $15.1 billion takeover offer
for Calgary-based Nexen Inc. before approving the transaction,
according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to
be identified because the discussions are confidential.  Redford wants guarantees that at least 50 percent of
Nexen’s board and management positions will be held by
Canadians, the person said.  PetroChina Drops  ADRs of PetroChina, China’s biggest oil producer, retreated
1.5 percent to a one-week low of $128.83 after rising in the
previous two days.  Crude oil for November delivery declined 4.1 percent to
$88.14 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Aug. 2. The U.S. Energy Department said
yesterday crude output rose to 6.52 million last week, the most
since December 1996. Total fuel demand fell 0.3 percent to 18.3
million barrels a day in the four weeks ended Sept. 28, the
lowest level since April.  Beijing-based  China Life Insurance Co. (LFC) , the nation’s
largest insurer, slid for a second day, losing 1.1 percent to
$43.05 in New York.  Stanley Tsai, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Keefe Bruyette &
Woods Ltd. reiterated an underperform  recommendation , equivalent
to sell, for China Life on Sept. 27. His estimated 12-month
price target of HK$21.7 is 2 percent below the stock’s closing
level in Hong Kong yesterday.  Chalco Retreats  Aluminum Corp., also known as Chalco and the biggest maker
of the lightweight metal in China, dropped 1.5 percent to
$10.06, the most in a week.  Beijing-based Chalco terminated an agreement to buy a 30
percent stake in Mongolian coal exporter Winsway Coking Coal
Holdings Ltd. due to a lack of approval by relevant governments
and regulators, the companies said on Sept. 28.  AsiaInfo-Linkage Inc. (ASIA) , a telecommunications software
provider, plunged 4.9 percent to a two-month low of $10.59,
extending its slump to a fifth day.  The Beijing-based company, which sells software to China’s
biggest wireless carriers, said in a July 30 statement that it
continued to consider buyout proposals after receiving an offer
in January from a subsidiary of Citic Capital China Partners II,
a private-equity fund owned by China Citi Bank Corp.  AsiaInfo Buyout  AsiaInfo said in the July 30 statement that while the
company continues to consider buyout proposals “there can be no
assurance that any definitive offer will ultimately be made,
that any agreement will be executed, or that any transaction
will be approved or consummated.” The company hasn’t announced
any price offerings. Kun Tao, an analyst at  Roth Capital
Partners , estimated in July a buyout price of $14 to $15 per
share.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , the largest online book
retailer in China, sank for a fourth day in New York trading,
the longest losing stretch since Aug. 21. Its ADRs lost 3.1
percent to $4.37, the lowest level since Dec. 29.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies
was little changed at 9,828.22 yesterday as trading resumed in
Hong Kong following a two-day holiday. Markets in mainland China
are closed for a week-long holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  