-- Colombia Tax Reform Seeks to Cut Region’s Highest Jobless Rate
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-10-03T00:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/colombia-tax-reform-seeks-to-cut-region-s-highest-jobless-rate.html
Colombian Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  will this week present a  tax reform  to Congress that
seeks to cut the highest  unemployment  rate among major Latin
American economies by reducing the cost to employers of hiring.  The proposed legislation aims to increase formal employment
by reducing charges that employers must pay to fund government
agencies including Colombia’s child protection agency, and an
education program, and replacing the lost revenue with taxes on
profits, Cardenas said. Non-wage costs are currently equivalent
to 58 percent of monthly pay, according to  Finance Ministry 
estimates.  “The tax burden that is now put on wages passes to a tax
on profits, allowing labor-intensive sectors to create more
formal jobs,” the Finance Ministry said in a statement. The
reform also aims to cut Colombia’s inequality rate by making the
tax system more progressive, Cardenas said in a presentation in
Bogota.  Mining and energy companies won’t have to pay more
royalties on production under the reform, Juan Ricardo Ortega,
Director of Colombia’s tax agency told reporters in Bogota.  The Finance Ministry estimates that the reform will cut
Colombia’s Gini coefficient, a measure of inequality, to 55.4
from 57.3. The richest 1 percent of Colombians have a higher
concentration of incomes than other  emerging markets  such as
China,  Argentina , Indonesia, India and  South Africa , Cardenas
said.  ‘Structural Unemployment’  Colombia’s national unemployment rate was 9.7 percent in
August, higher than the rate in Brazil,  Mexico , Argentina, Peru,
Chile and Mexico, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The reform will also simplify Colombia’s sales tax regime,
and cut  tax evasion , Cardenas said.  Central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe today said that the
country’s unemployment rate is one of his biggest concerns.  “It worries me that this country has such a high level of
structural unemployment,” Uribe told reporters in Cali today.
“These levels of unemployment, which are structural, cannot be
managed with monetary policy, but with other kinds of action to
make the labor market function better.”  Brazil’s  unemployment rate  fell to 5.3 percent in August,
from 11.7 percent in August 2002, following a drive to
“formalize” the work force.  The reform will simplify Colombia’s sales tax, by reducing
the number of bands to three from seven. The measures will also
replace the 16 percent sales tax that restaurants now pay with a
new 7 percent tax, Cardenas said.  If the reforms have any impact on inflation, they will be
one-off changes, so the central bank is unlikely to react, said
Camila Estrada, head analyst at Helm Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  