-- Consumers Duped by Computer Virus Scam Targeted by U.S. Agency
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-10-03T17:33:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/consumers-duped-by-computer-virus-scam-targeted-by-u-s-agency.html
U.S. government regulators announced
they won a court order to halt international telephone scams in
which people posing as computer technicians called tens of
thousands of consumers and duped them into buying unneeded anti-
virus services.  The Federal Trade Commission said today it filed charges on
Sept. 24 in the Southern District of New York. A federal judge
the next day ordered a stop to the scams, mostly based in  India ,
which targeted consumers in the U.S., U.K., and other English-
speaking countries, according to the agency. The U.S. also froze
$180,000 of the defendants’ assets, the FTC said.  The agency said it is working with international regulators
to increase its investigations of so-called scareware, in which
con artists fool consumers into buying software and services for
their computers they don’t need. The agency yesterday announced
a judgment of more than $163 million against a defendant in a
2008 case.  The most recent cases, which were unsealed last night, are
“a very serious rip-off of consumers,” FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz told reporters in  Washington  today. “The tech scam
artists have taken scareware to a new level of virtual mayhem.”  The FTC targeted 14 companies and 17 individuals. Companies
involved included Pecon Software Ltd., Finmaestros LLC, Zeal IT
Solutions Pvt., Virtual PC Solutions, Lakshmi Infosul Services
Pvt. and PCCare247 Inc., the agency said.  The telemarketers told consumers they were from  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , McAfee Inc. and  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) ’s Norton
antivirus unit and had detected malware that threatened their
computers, the FTC said in a statement. To show the computer had
a problem, the caller directed the consumers to a utility area
of the computer that falsely showed an infection, according to
the agency.  The callers offered to rid computers of the non-existent
threats for fees ranging from $49 to $450. A separate scam
placed ads with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  that appeared when computer users
searched for a technical-support number, the FTC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  