-- Cuomo’s Tappan Zee Plan Seen as Public-Private Model, RPA Says
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-10-03T17:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/cuomo-s-tappan-zee-plan-seen-as-public-private-model-rpa-says.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s plan
to have private companies design and build a new Tappan Zee
Bridge across the Hudson River can serve as a cost-saving model,
said  Alex Marshall  of the  Regional Plan Association .  Last year, Cuomo pushed through the legislature a bill that
allows the state to put private companies in charge of the
entire building process on infrastructure projects. Previously,
New York did the design and private companies handled
construction. Cuomo is applying the so-called design-build
format, which he considers more efficient, to the $5.2 billion
Tappan Zee project.  “The Tappan Zee can be a model,” Marshall, a senior
fellow at the association, said today at the State & Municipal
Finance Conference hosted by  Bloomberg Link  in New York. “If
done right, the Tappan Zee will be built quicker and at lower
cost.”  Founded in 1922, the RPA prepares long-range plans for
development in the New York-New Jersey-Connecticut metropolitan
region.  Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, has made building a new 3.1-
mile (5-kilometer) Tappan Zee a priority. The 56-year-old bridge
that connects Westchester and Rockland counties about 20 miles
north of Manhattan is six years older than its projected
lifespan. It carries 138,000 vehicles daily, 40 percent more
than its design intended.  The U.S. Transportation Department approved the new bridge
plan last month after President Barack Obama designated it as
one of 14 to be sped through a federal review.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  