-- Czech Premier’s Lawmakers Quarrel in Tax Row Threatening Cabinet
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-10-03T10:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/czech-premier-s-lawmakers-quarrel-in-tax-row-threatening-cabinet.html
Czech Premier Petr Necas’s lawmakers
requested more time today to resolve a quarrel over a proposal
to raise taxes that threatens to bring down the coalition
Cabinet.  Necas suffered a loss in the lower house of parliament on
Sept. 5 when he failed to secure enough votes to push through a
bill that included tax increases. Six lawmakers from Necas’s
Civic Democratic Party joined the opposition and rejected the
set of budget measures, saying they are against a plan to boost
revenue with higher taxes.  The Cabinet submitted the legislation to Parliament again,
saying it is needed to cut the fiscal  shortfall  to less than the
European Union’s limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product
next year and linked approval of the bill to a vote of
confidence. The parliamentary budget committee today adjourned
for a week its debate on the bill as lawmakers sought a
compromise solution.  “Adjourning the debate today is basically the only way to
prevent a similar result as in the previous debate of the
identical document,” Marek Snajdr, one of the ruling-coalition
lawmakers who oppose the tax increases, said at a committee
meeting in Prague.  The government approved on Sept. 26 the budget draft for
next year in which it assumes  deficit  reduction with the help
from higher taxes. The draft sets the ceiling for the public-
finance deficit at 2.9 percent of  economic output , compared with
3.2 percent expected this year.  Majority Lost  Necas, who lost his parliamentary majority in April amid
personnel and budget rows, credits previous austerity measures
with helping reduce borrowing costs and says the new package,
which includes higher sales taxes and a new levy on the highest
incomes, will maintain investor confidence.  The two-year-old Cabinet has cut investment, raised the
sales tax and curbed spending on public wages. The budget
shortfall narrowed to 3.1 percent of GDP last year, from 4.8
percent in 2010.  President Vaclav Klaus last week also vetoed a pension-
overhaul bill designed to boost private savings for retirement.
Necas said Klaus’s decision may destabilize the government.  “Failure to pass the pension reform bill or the draft
budget in its current form would itself not prompt a loss of
creditworthiness for the sovereign, but the political
environment is threatening to undermine fiscal policy
credibility within the context” of the EU’s excessive deficit
procedure, Moody’s Investors Service said on Oct. 2.  “Maintaining confidence that the sovereign will stay on
track toward fiscal sustainability and will curb further
deterioration of its balance sheet are key factors for
preserving creditworthiness,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  