-- Danube Decay Hinders Rhine Link to Leave Shippers Blue: Freight
-- B y   T o m   M e t c a l f   a n d   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2012-10-04T15:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/danube-decay-hinders-rhine-link-to-leave-shippers-blue-freight.html
European Union plans for a trade
artery between the Black and North seas have stalled as an
upgrade of the  Danube waterway  is held up by spats over funding,
the environment and immigration, delaying work that would reduce
transport costs for companies spanning  BASF SE (BAS)  to  Ford Motor Co. (F)   The bickering has stymied moves to upgrade infrastructure
and reverse a drop in water levels in the lower Danube, while
comments from right-leaning Dutch politicians have upset plans
for Rotterdam port to help modernize  Romania ’s biggest harbor.  Goods volumes  on Europe’s longest river after the Volga are
80 percent lower than on the Rhine, the region’s busiest
waterway, according to EU figures. About 45 million metric tons
of cargo was transported last year, half the total moved before
the disintegration of the Soviet bloc, said Manfred Seitz,
director of Vienna-based lobby group Pro Danube International.  “Businesses are desperate,” said Karin de Schepper,
general secretary at Inland Navigation  Europe  in Brussels, which
promotes waterborne trade. “They’d like to use the Danube but
they can’t so they’re looking at alternatives.”  Rising in the Black Forest in western  Germany , the Danube
-- dubbed “blue” by Viennese composer Johann Strauss in his 1866
waltz -- flows for more than 1,750 miles (2,800 kilometers)
through 10 European countries. Its catchment area covers one-
fifth of the EU and has a population in excess of 100 million.  Canal Link  The river is also central to European Commission plans to
create a new route from  Asia  to northwest Europe by utilizing
the 106-mile canal between the German cities of Kelheim on the
Danube and Bamberg on the Main -- the Rhine’s biggest tributary
-- finished in 1992. The route would shave 2,100 miles from the
standard sea passage via the Mediterranean and eastern Atlantic.  Even over the same distances, shipping by barge can be six
times cheaper than road and three times less costly than rail,
according to U.K. risk adviser Infospectrum Ltd. BASF, the
world’s biggest chemical company, uses the Rhine for shipments
from production sites located along the river’s banks in
Germany, spokeswoman Ursula von Stetten said.  Yet parts of a Danube, described by  Napoleon Bonaparte  as
the “king of rivers,” verge on the unnavigable, with an
absence of regular dredging resulting in some stretches becoming
too shallow to pass, especially during periods of drought.  Theft  Seven sections regularly fall below the 2.5 meters (8.2
feet) of draught required of an “international waterway” as
defined by the United Nations Economic Commission, according to
the Budapest-based Danube Commission. Navigation on the lower
river was impossible for more than  38 days  in September and
October last year because of insufficient water levels,
according to the European Commission, the EU’s executive arm.  Vienna-based  Helogistics Holdings GmbH , a subsidiary of
Swiss iron ore producer  Ferrexpo Plc (FXPO) , halted shipments between
Constantza, Romania’s No. 1 port, and Budapest in March, saying
that shallow waters had made operations “almost impossible.”  Lack of clearance means barges are frequently loaded to
only 50 percent of capacity to ensure a smooth passage, driving
up costs and delaying deliveries, said Jurgen Sorgenfrei, a
consultant on maritime and hinterland issues at IHS Global GmbH.  The disruption has led to a higher incidence of theft from
barges forced to tie up along the river and at its ports,
according to Edgar Martin, director for central and eastern
Europe at London-based Infospectrum.  “Cargo ends up waiting at locks and gets stolen,” said
Frankfurt-based Sorgenfrei. “The captain wakes up next morning
and some of the containers are open.”  Low-End Goods  Timetabling and security concerns mean the Danube is rarely
used to move high-value goods, with traffic generally made up of
less time sensitive bulk commodities, he said.  Ford, the second-biggest U.S. automaker, once used barges
to transport autos made at its Craiova plant in Romania -- where
the B-Max model is currently produced -- but has ceased to do
so, spokesman Adrian Schmitz said from the company’s European
headquarters in Cologne, Germany. Renault’s Romanian Dacia no-
frills brand has also ceased to move cars on the river.  Cargo flows at Constantza, a Black Sea staging post linked
to the Danube by a 40-mile canal that allows vessels to avoid
shallow delta channels, reveal the low-value nature of goods.  Port data shows that 11.5 million tons of cereals and seed
passed through in 2011, equal to one-quarter of overall volumes.
Containers at terminals including one operated by Dubai’s  DP
World Ltd. (DPW)  comprised 14 percent of traffic, half the level at 
Rotterdam , Europe’s top port. Perishables such as fruit and
vegetables amounted to 61,000 tons, 0.1 percent of the total.  Sole Shipment  The picture is even bleaker at Galati, the largest Romanian
port directly on the Danube, where 70 percent of shipments come
from the local unit of  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the No. 1 steelmaker. In
the last 20 years Galati has handled only one consignment of
food or beverages, and its container terminal is unused, said
Carmen Costache, president of the Romanian Inland Ports Union.  Constantza, at least, is well placed to become “one of
Europe’s biggest ports,” General Manager Decebal Serban said by
e-mail, with the facility acting as an entrepot for southeast
Europe just as Rotterdam does further the north. Frustrating
that potential is a general lack of intermodal infrastructure
that would allow the smooth transfer of containerized goods
between ships, trucks and railway wagons, he said.  Diplomatic Fallout  Investment in the Danube appears adequate, with 700 million
euros ($904 million) from EU structural funds designated for its
development through the end of 2013 and the budget for 2014-2020
currently being negotiated. Cash from the bloc’s wider TEN-T
infrastructure program, which aims to create  transport corridors 
across Europe, totals 8 billion euros through next year and a
proposed 32 billion euros for 2014-2020.  Yet wrangling over budgets, work commitments and national
interests means projects are proceeding slowly at best. Slovakia
and Hungary were found by the  International Court of Justice  to
have committed “wrongful acts” in seeking to divert as much as
97 percent of the Danube’s flow to rival  power plants , while in
Germany environmental pressure groups have frustrated plans to
deepen a section of the river through damming since the 1970s.  A deal according to which Rotterdam last year agreed to
lend management expertise to Constantza faltered following a
diplomatic spat after the Netherlands objected to Romania
joining the Schengen travel area. Dutch Freedom Party leader
 Geert Wilders , then a member of the ruling coalition, also set
up a website inviting complaints about East European migrants,
prompting Romanian politicians to promote a trade boycott.  Efforts will be made to start talks with the new government
and Constantza authorities via the Dutch embassy in Bucharest,
 Port of Rotterdam  spokesman Tie Schellekens said in an e-mailed
statement, adding that there is “much support” for the plan.  Without investment and infrastructure upgrades, the Danube
may never get the chance to fulfill its potential as other modes
of transport capture freight flows on a permanent basis.  “The trucking industry is very flexible and very
aggressive,” IHS’s Sorgenfrei said. “A lot of the stuff that
was once carried on the river today goes by road.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Metcalf in London at 
 tmetcalf7@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Zega in London at   rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  