-- Dish Gains as Ergen Seeks Partner for Wireless Network
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-10-03T20:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/dish-gains-as-ergen-willing-to-spend-billions-on-mobile.html
Dish Network Inc. (DISH)  gained the most in
almost a month after Chairman  Charlie Ergen  said he won’t
threaten the company’s future with his ambition to build a
multibillion-dollar wireless network to become a provider of
mobile data and voice provider.  Dish  rose  4 percent to $31.93 at the close in New York, the
biggest gain since Sept. 5. The Englewood, Colorado-based
company’s shares have climbed 12 percent this year.  The second-largest U.S. satellite TV provider is looking
for a partner that’s already in the industry to help it build
“the best wireless network in the United States,” Ergen said
today at a conference in  Orlando , Florida. Dish’s billionaire
founder calmed investors by reiterating he was unlikely to build
a network on his own, said  Vijay Jayant , an analyst at ISI Group
in New York.  “He stressed that potential partners will evolve as his
plans progress, and he kept open the possibility he could sell
the spectrum if everything didn’t line up,” Jayant said in an
interview. He advises buying Dish shares.  The billionaire Dish founder dismissed any immediate plan
to sell the company’s radio spectrum licenses, purchased from
bankrupt TerreStar Networks Inc. and DBSD North America Inc.
While he won’t be “suicidal” with his plan to build the
network, he’s committed to competing with  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon
Wireless  if the Federal Communications Commission allows it, he
said.  “This is going to be a tough project for us,” Ergen said.
“You can’t achieve anything unless you get in the room.”  Fastest Technology  There are advantages to entering the wireless industry now,
including building a so-called long-term evolution network to
offer the fastest technology to consumers, Ergen said. Dish,
which trails  DirecTV (DTV)  in U.S. satellite subscribers, wants to
combine mobile service with its video and Internet products to
give consumers a way to watch TV outside the home.  While the FCC approved Dish’s purchase on March 2, the
agency said the company wouldn’t be allowed to use the spectrum
for mobile service until regulators have written new rules that
allow radio waves in that frequency for voice and data
transmission.  Ergen used a meeting yesterday with two FCC commissioners
and an aide to FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  to urge the
agency to complete the rulemaking “as expeditiously as
possible,” according to a filing at the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  