-- DNA Scans Help Pinpoint Causes of Mental Retardation
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-10-03T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/dna-scans-help-pinpoint-causes-of-mental-retardation.html
Sequencing the genomes of 100
individuals with mental retardation with no known cause yielded
genetic answers for 16 of them, a study found, suggesting the
technique may help diagnose and aid in treatment.  While more than 400 genetic mutations are known to cause
intellectual disability, they are responsible for less than half
of the cases, said  Han Brunner , a study author and head of human
genetics at Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre in the
Netherlands. The research is published today in the  New England
Journal of Medicine .  The study shows how gene sequencing can improve diagnosis
in patients with mental disabilities, many of whom never learn
the cause. Knowing the genetic origin can help patients and
families understand the prognoses and may lead to specific
treatment options, the authors said in the study.  “Half of the children and adults with intellectual
disability never have an explanation of why they are retarded --
that’s a big problem,” leading many parents on a quest to
numerous doctors looking for answers, Brunner said in a
telephone interview. “This is what people call the diagnostic
odyssey, and people can put that to rest,” by using genetic
sequencing, he said.  Researchers scanned the DNA of children with mental
retardation, defined as having an IQ of less than 50, as well as
their parents, and looked for differences. While all children
have some mutations, few lead to intellectual disability,
Brunner said. Once the culprits are known, it can help direct
some therapies or dietary changes.  “We had two cases where the type of mutation would suggest
that you might try a treatment for a metabolic disorder, and
another with epilepsy,” he said.  Diet Effect  For instance, patients with a mutation in the PDHA1 gene
would benefit from a ketogenic diet, which is high in fat, and
those with SCN2A mutation should avoid sodium-channel blockers
to better control their epileptic episodes and improve cognitive
function, according to the study.  The research, funded in part by the European Union,
demonstrates how the quickening pace of gene sequencing
technology may lead to wider use in the clinic to help patients,
said  Heather Mefford , assistant professor of pediatrics at the
University of  Washington  in  Seattle .  The technology used in the study is called exome sequencing
and looks at the 1 percent of the DNA containing genes that
create proteins. The researchers used equipment from Carlsbad,
California-based  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  to perform the
sequencing.  “Previously, you might test one or two genes. Or more
recently, a panel of genes,” Mefford, who wrote an accompanying
editorial to the study, said in a telephone interview. That
approach could take weeks or months and not lead to any answers,
she said. “This test allows us to look at all the genes at
once.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  