-- Draghi Stares at Spain as Brinkmanship Keeps ECB Waiting
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-10-04T11:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/draghi-stares-at-spain-as-bond-brinkmanship-keeps-ecb-waiting.html
Mario Draghi  is waiting for Spain to
get back to him on whether his plan to save the euro is needed.  One month after the European Central Bank president
unveiled an unprecedented bond purchase program to rescue
Europe’s embattled southern fringe, Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  is showing reluctance to ask for the aid he pushed
for with  Italy  on concern about the terms attached to it. As ECB
policy makers meet in Slovenia today, Spanish two-year note
yields are more than 50 basis points higher than the five-month
low touched on Sept. 7, the day following their last decision.  “We’re back at this game of brinkmanship between the ECB
and governments again, and it’s a case of who makes some
concessions first,” said  Nick Matthews , senior European
economist at Nomura International Plc in  London . “The markets
will continue to play a significant role here and Draghi needs
them to turn up the pressure.”  Spanish bonds extended losses today after an auction of
two-, three- and five-year securities failed to exceed the
maximum target of 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion) and the
benchmark three-year yield rose. While Finance Minister Luis De Guindos has said officials are still considering whether they
actually need ECB help, Catalan President Artur Mas urged Rajoy
to ask for a bailout as he rejected the deficit limits for his
region next year. Spain can’t overcome its economic crisis
without help, Mas said in the statement published yesterday.  Monti’s View  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  cautioned last week that
aid shouldn’t hinge on more conditions than leaders already
signed up to and the  International Monetary Fund  shouldn’t need
to police it.  European stocks relinquished gains as investors awaited the
ECB policy meeting. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.1 percent
to 271.67 at 12 p.m. in London, after earlier climbing as much
as 0.5 percent. The euro rose 0.5 percent to $1.2951.  “What people tend to forget is that the ECB’s bond plan is
only complementing the implementation of financing help agreed
by the governments,” said  Athanasios Orphanides , who was an ECB
council member until May and now teaches at the  MIT Sloan School
of Management  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “So if Prime
Ministers Rajoy and Monti are not happy about conditionality or
IMF involvement then they should take it up with their fellow
leaders and not complain about the ECB.”  Monthly Meeting  Such considerations may color today’s gathering of ECB
officials in Ljubljana for their monthly policy decision.
Economists expect them to keep the key  interest rate  at a record
low of 0.75 percent, according to the median forecast of 52
economist forecasts.  Bank of  Spain  Governor Luis Maria Linde won’t attend the
meeting because he’s appearing at a parliamentary budget
committee in  Madrid  today. Chief Economist Jose Luis Malo de Molina will stand in for Linde, said a Bank of Spain spokesman
who asked not to be named in line with policy.  Linde told Spanish lawmakers that there is a “risk of
missing” the government’s deficit goal for this year, based on
budget data so far this year.  The ECB holds its Governing Council meeting away from
 Frankfurt  twice a year. It will release its decision at 1.45
p.m. local time, and Draghi will brief reporters at a press
conference 45 minutes later. The  Bank of England  today held its
bond-purchase target at 375 billion pounds ($603 billion) and
kept its rate at 0.5 percent.  Press Conference  Investors will watch Draghi’s presentation today for clues
on progress since he unveiled an unlimited government bond-
purchase plan which would see the ECB buying maturities of up to
three years in the secondary market. The ECB would act if
countries applied for aid to the euro region’s bailout fund, the
European Stability Mechanism, which would then purchase
 government bonds  in the primary market.  While officials wait for any request to come through,
Draghi has sought to sell the plan in  Germany , whose Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann was the sole dissenter on the ECB
Governing Council. In a bid to soothe concerns in Europe’s
largest economy after a media outcry, Draghi pledged to German
lawmakers on Sept. 25 that any bond buying must be “accompanied
by reforms from governments that address deep-rooted issues.”  Austerity Package  Spain has yet to signal if it will accept such terms. De
Guindos said Oct. 1 that officials are studying the ECB plan and
will make the “best decision for the interests of the Spanish
economy.” That followed the unveiling of a fifth austerity
package in nine months. The government announced plans to borrow
207.2 billion euros next year, which would increase its debt
load to 90.5 percent of gross domestic product.  “The fears of the Bundesbank now seem to be coming true,
that the governments are finding it very difficult to fulfill
the conditions so that the ECB can act,” said Christoph Kind,
head of  asset allocation  at Frankfurt Trust, who helps manage
about $20 billion. “I think the ECB had imagined things would
run differently.”  While Spain seeks the lightest possible terms from creditor
governments and the ECB as a reward for austerity measures
already implemented, it’s unlikely that Draghi will agree to a
no-strings attached bond purchases, said  Laurent Fransolet , head
of  interest-rate  strategy at Barclays Plc in London.  No Backing Down  “If you don’t have conditionality, you don’t have a
deal,” he said. “It’s very unlikely that the ECB will back
down on conditionality. The markets know that, they also know
that this won’t happen overnight, and that a lot of sequencing
is involved.”  The Spanish 10-year yield reached a euro-era record 7.75
percent on July 25, before Draghi pledged the next day to do
“whatever it takes” to safeguard the monetary union. It was at
5.85 percent today. Two-year notes were at 3.28 percent, up from
as low as 2.71 percent on Sept. 7.  Bond yields are unlikely to surge because the ECB’s plan
has quelled investor concern for now, Fransolet said. “People
are not going to short Spain if the ECB is only a phone call
away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  