-- Dubai, Egypt Stocks May Rise as Vanguard Adopts FTSE
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-10-03T13:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/dubai-egypt-stocks-may-rise-as-vanguard-adopts-ftse-efg-says.html
United Arab Emirates and  Egypt  shares
are poised to attract overseas investors after Vanguard Group
Inc., the largest U.S. mutual-fund provider, switched to FTSE
Group from  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , EFG-Hermes Holding SAE said.  The move opens up Vanguard’s $67 billion emerging-markets
fund to the U.A.E. since the Arab nation is ranked higher at
FTSE than it is at MSCI,  Julian Bruce , EFG-Hermes’ Dubai-based
director of institutional sales trading, said by e-mail today.
The second-largest Arab economy has emerging-market status at
FTSE and frontier status at MSCI.  U.A.E. stock exchanges comprise  0.34 percent  of FTSE’s EM
index, while the weighting of Egypt’s benchmark gauge, the
world’s best performer this year, is 0.51 percent, compared with
0.36 percent in MSCI. Benchmarks in Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Egypt
rose today, with the  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  soaring to the highest
level in more than five months and Egypt’s  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  climbing
0.8 percent, snapping a four-day drop, at the close.  “The news that one of the largest EM exchange-traded funds
is switching to the FTSE index series is a positive factor for
both the U.A.E. and Egypt,” Bruce said. “Whilst overall
weightings of those countries within the global series are very
small, they are meaningful when compared with average daily
value traded, especially in the U.A.E. Timing remains uncertain
but this type of event is always a catalyst for increased
speculative activity.”  Lower Volumes  The move by Vanguard, which will use FTSE as a benchmark
for about $537 billion of assets, comes after Dubai trading
volumes dropped as  Europe ’s debt crisis trimmed the appetite for
riskier assets. About 228  million shares  traded in Dubai today,
down from March’s 835 million peak. U.A.E. equities are valued
at $108 billion and those in Egypt at $69 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.A.E. failed for a fourth year to secure an upgrade at
MSCI to emerging-market status in June, as the index provider
cited issues with market accessibility. Dubai’s index rose 1.2
percent to 1,623.24 at the close in the emirate, the highest
since May 1. The measure has rallied 20 percent this year,
making it the best-performing stock market in the six-nation
 Gulf Cooperation Council (BGCC200) , which includes Saudi Arabia.  Outperformance  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI) , which is up 10 percent in
2012, added 0.2 percent while Egypt’s EGX 30 Index gained the
most since Sept. 25, advancing to 5,656.15. Egyptian shares have
soared 56 percent this year, outperforming 90 global indexes
tracked by Bloomberg.  Vanguard will adopt benchmarks from FTSE for six
international stock index funds, and gauges developed by the
University of Chicago’s Center for Research in Security Prices
for 16 U.S. equity and balanced funds, the Pennsylvania-based
firm said yesterday.  The change will affect both index mutual funds and
exchange-traded funds at Vanguard, whose ETFs are structured as
share classes of its mutual funds. The switch to the FTSE
benchmarks, which includes about $170 billion in fund assets, is
the largest in international index providers, FTSE said. MSCI
shares slumped 27 percent in New York yesterday, the most on
record, to $26.21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  