-- The 142 Best Questions for Tonight’s Debate
-- B y   Z a r a   K e s s l e r
-- 2012-10-03T18:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/the-142-best-questions-for-tonight-s-debate.html
Tonight's debate is scheduled to last 90 minutes, with more than an hour
devoted to "conversation" between the candidates. The format would seem to allow
 Barack Obama  and  Mitt Romney  plenty of time to delve into the issues, detail
their positions or  pretend to be offended  at something their opponent has
said. What the format does  not  allow for is enough time for all of the
media's questions. If moderator Jim Lehrer happens to be surfing the Web this
afternoon, he might click over to Politico, which has  five for each candidate .
Or Forbes, which has  10  just on health care. The L.A. Times thoughtfully
winnowed its list to  eight . The  Heritage Foundation  has  10 queries . The New
America Leaders project has taken to the  Huffington Post  to ask  five on
immigration . At the National Review, Veronique de Rugy posted some  28 questions 
before concluding: "That's it for now." Of course, none of this accounts for the hundreds, perhaps thousands, of
questions that have been posted in the time it has taken to write this. With 10
hours to go until the debate,  the New York Times editorial page editor called 
for readers to post questions on his blog, specifically requesting "unsafe,
inspired questions," and promising, "We'll post a selection later, along with
questions from The Times editorial board." As we breathlessly await the Times's questions, we can keep busy with
 Washington 's Newspaper of Record. The Washington Post has  seven questions  "that
should be asked … and probably won't." Then it has  12 more  just for the
president. Then  another 17 . If that's not enough, here are  35 more . We here at Bloomberg View are not immune. Do you have a question you'd like
to see asked? Leave it in comments! Oh, and Mr. Lehrer, if you're still reading,
I have a suggestion: You may want to practice your  speed-speaking  skills. (Zara Kessler is an assistant editor and producer for Bloomberg View.  Follow 
her on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .