-- Mechel Targets Agreement on Refinancing in November
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-10-03T07:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/mechel-targets-agreement-on-refinancing-in-november-correct-.html
(Corrects reference to voting rights in 11th paragraph of
story originally published Oct. 2)    OAO Mechel (MTL) ,  Russia ’s biggest
producer of steelmaking coal, may complete talks on $1.5 billion
of debt refinancing by the end of November, Chief Financial
Officer Stanislav Ploschenko said.  Mechel has also asked for a 12-month grace period on
repayments on a $2 billion loan arranged with a group of banks
in 2010. Mechel aims to reach an agreement with banks within two
months that will retain the other terms of the loan, including
the repayment of interest, Ploschenko said on a conference call
today. Mechel owes about $1.3 billion of the loan amount, he
said.  Mechel’s net debt fell to $8.4 billion in the second
quarter from $9.2 billion in the first three months, it said
today in a statement. Debt  may rise  by about $200 million when
the company consolidates a portion of assets from Estar Group,
Ploschenko said today on a conference call.  Mechel said in May it may seek to seize control of Estar if
it is unable to pay a loan guaranteed by Mechel units before the
end of September. Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Mechel in
August on concern that a potential default by Estar would add
$800 million to Mechel’s debt.  The company doesn’t plan to consolidate all of Estar’s
assets into Mechel, Ploschenko said. Management recommended that
Estar’s debt be extended by 9 months, and that most of its
assets be sold during that time, he said.  Scrap Producer  An amount of $187 million of the loan will be converted
into shares in three Estar assets, he said. These include Rostov
electro-metallurgical plant, a steel-product distribution
division and the Lomprom scrap producer, Ploschenko said. The
Rostov plant could be consolidated into  Mechel (MTLR)  in January.  Mechel pays an average rate of about 7 percent to 10
percent on its short-term ruble debt, Ploschenko said today.  Mechel swung to a first-quarter net loss of $823 million
from a profit of $218 million in the previous three months, it
said today. Excluding the impairment of some assets and
provisions for amounts owed by related parties, the loss would
be $177 million, it said.  “This suggests that Mechel is once again at risk of
breaching its main debt covenants,” Kirill Chuyko, Moscow-based
joint head of equity research at BCS Financial Group, said in a
note.  Mechel may skip dividend payments on its preferred shares
this year, given the weak set of results, Chuyko said.  In the event of no dividends being paid, preferred shares
will carry voting rights under the company’s charter, Ploschenko
said. In the absence of net income, the company still can pay
dividends, in which case the preferred shares won’t carry voting
rights, he said.  Separately Mechel said it plans to produce 29.5 million
metric tons of coal this year, while its Elga project will be
able to run production at “industrial scale” next year and
produce about 4 million tons.  Mechel fell 3.5 percent to 218.10 rubles by the close in
Moscow today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  