-- Telefonica German Unit to Sell Shares in IPO This Quarter
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-10-03T11:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/telefonica-german-unit-to-sell-shares-in-ipo-this-quarter.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s biggest phone
company, plans to sell shares in its O2  Germany  unit this
quarter to help pare a debt pile of more than 58 billion euros
($75 billion).  The company hasn’t confirmed the percentage of the holding
to be listed or the amount it plans to raise, though it intends
to keep a majority of Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG, the
Madrid-based operator said in a statement today. The initial
public offering may raise as much as 1.5 billion euros and value
the unit at 7.5 billion euros, people familiar with the matter
have said.  Faced with falling profit and increased competition in its
domestic market, Telefonica is selling assets, including stakes
in its German and Latin American units, to help cut  debt  that
ballooned in an acquisition spree. In July, Telefonica scrapped
a 1.50 euro-a-share dividend for 2012, and will resume paying
half of the amount starting in the last quarter of 2013.  “This is a very significant milestone in the company’s
attempts to cut debt, not only because of the amount it can
raise but also because it will be key for further asset sales
such as its call-center unit Atento and a share sale in  Latin
America ,” Nuno Matias, an analyst at Espirito Santo in Lisbon,
said by phone. “We still need to know what percentage of
capital Telefonica plans to sell as well as the valuation.”  Telefonica fell 0.2 percent to 10.52 euros at 1:28 p.m. in
 Madrid , valuing the company at 47.9 billion euros. The  stock 
lost 21 percent this year through yesterday, while the Bloomberg
Europe Telecommunication Services  Index (BETELES)  dropped 3.6 percent.  High Dividends  O2 Germany shares will trade in  Frankfurt , Telefonica said.
A 1.5 billion-euro IPO would be the biggest in Germany since
engine maker  Tognum AG (TGM)  raised 1.8 billion euros in 2007.  A listing of O2 Germany could happen as early as this
month, and Telefonica will start gauging investor interest this
week, people familiar with the matter have said. The company
said the German unit will pay about 500 million euros in cash
dividends next year from 2012 earnings, signaling Telefonica
Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta plans to use high payouts
to attract investors. Telefonica forecasts the dividend will
increase in coming years.  ‘Growth Story’  With phone companies from the Netherlands to France cutting
dividends to preserve cash, Telefonica is betting the payments
to shareholders will offset the unit’s small size in Germany,
where mobile accounts outnumber people, people familiar with the
matter said last week. O2 and Royal  KPN NV (KPN) ’s E-Plus unit vie for
the position of the third-largest wireless company in Germany,
where  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  are the
leaders.  “We are convinced that an IPO will enable us to raise our
profile further, and to continue the successful growth story of
Telefonica Deutschland in Germany in the long term,” Rene Schuster, chief executive officer of the German business, said
in the statement.  UBS AG and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are managing the IPO, with
help from Bank of America Corp., BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc.
and HSBC Holdings Plc.  Telefonica’s German business had first-half net income of
55 million euros, up from 23 million euros a year earlier, the
company  said today .  Market Share  The German unit’s second-quarter operating income before
depreciation and amortization, or Oibda, rose 12 percent to 333
million euros. It had wireless-service revenue of 789 million
euros in the period, almost the same as E-Plus. The unit, which
also offers fixed-line phone and Internet services, had 18.8
million mobile-phone customers as of June.  The unit expects to increase its mobile market share and
its Oibda margins through economies of scale and efficiencies,
it said. The second-quarter Oibda margin was 25.7 percent.  While Telefonica’s Germany unit sees next year and 2014 as
a crucial period to deploy long-term evolution, or LTE,
technology for faster data speeds, capital expenditure isn’t
expected to exceed the levels of 2010, when it deployed 3G, it
said. Capital expenditure will decline after that, the company
said.  “We intend to drive profitable growth and efficiency
resulting in enhanced cash flow generation,” Telefonica
Deutschland Chief Financial Officer Rachel Empey said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  