-- Telefonica Said to Sell Jets as Part of Spending Cuts
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-10-04T07:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/telefonica-said-to-sell-jets-as-part-of-spending-cuts.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , the Spanish phone
company whose net debt is bigger than its market value, plans to
reduce its fleet of private jets as part of an effort to cut
costs, two people familiar with the matter said.  Telefonica, which has more private planes than any other
Spanish publicly traded company, plans to put up for sale two of
its four  Gulfstream  business jets in the next month, one of the
people said, asking not to be identified because the
deliberations are private. The company could raise about 35
million euros ($45 million) for the jets, the person said.  Spain ’s biggest phone operator will replace one of the jets
by March or April with a new Gulfstream G650, which it ordered
about three years ago, the person said. Madrid-based Telefonica,
which has a department for aviation, may have paid about 50
million euros, less than the 70 million euros a new G650 costs
now, the person said.  The jet sales are part of a cost-reduction program that
spans office supplies, employee refreshments, compensation and
asset disposals. After an $85 billion acquisition spree over the
past decade, Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is cutting
back, selling assets that include shares in German and Latin
American units as well as the call-center business Atento.  The company, which faces competition from  France Telecom
SA (FTE) ’s Orange Spain unit and  Jazztel Plc (JAZ) , reduced managers’ total
compensation by 30 percent in July, while board members agreed
to take a 20 percent pay cut. Saddled with more than 58 billion
euros of net debt, Telefonica also scrapped this year’s dividend
and halved next year’s to save an estimated 10.2 billion euros
as it rushes to avoid further debt downgrades.  Leather Seats  The jets for sale are a  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  Gulfstream
G200, which can fly for about 3,000 nautical miles (5,600
kilometers), and a Gulfstream GV with a range of more than 5,000
nautical miles, the person said. Both carry 10 to 14 passengers
and include leather seats, couch, Internet, TV and satellite
connection, the person said. The average maintenance cost for
this type of jet is about 10,000 euros for each hour of flight,
the person said.  Telefonica’s other two jets are Gulfstream G550 models. The
company bought its first jet, a second-hand Gulfstream GIV, from
the Sultan of  Brunei  in the late 1990s under the leadership of
Alierta’s predecessor, Juan Villalonga, the person said.  A Telefonica official declined to comment.  Coffee, Photocopies  Shares of Telefonica  declined  0.2 percent to 10.48 euros at
9:35 a.m. Madrid time. They have lost 22 percent this year.  Only top executives at Telefonica use the jets, though less
often than they used to, people familiar with the matter said.
Alierta is known in the aviation industry as a sensible jet
user, having rented one for personal use from outside the
company, one of the people said.  Telefonica follows other telecommunications companies in
selling planes.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , the maker of the
BlackBerry smartphone, was selling one of its two  business jets 
under a plan to save $1 billion in operating costs, people
familiar with the matter said in July.  As part of a broad cost-cutting program, Telefonica may
move some of the about 370 employees of its international unit,
known as TISA, to  Brazil  from Spain by early next year, two
people familiar with the matter said. The final number of people
to be moved hasn’t been decided and the rest will be relocated
to other operating units or fired, the people said.  Telefonica has also reduced the number of color photocopies
for most employees, two people said. The phone company is also
cutting back on travel, coffee and phone expenses, one of the
people said. Other cost cuts include the use of company cars,
for which directors now have stricter gasoline-allowance limits,
the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  