-- Telekom Austria Ex-CEO, CFO Charged With Share Tampering
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-10-03T15:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/telekom-austria-ex-ceo-cfo-charged-with-share-tampering.html
Telekom Austria (TKA) ’s former chief
executive and chief financial officers were charged today over
allegations that they manipulated the company’s share price.  Former CEO Heinz Sundt and CFO Stefano Colombo face as many
as 10 years in jail, Vienna’s state prosecutor said in a
statement. They are among four ex-employees and a banker
formerly contracted by Telekom Austria charged by prosecutors.  The charges stem from the alleged manipulation of Telekom
Austria’s share price in February 2004 that allowed management
to claim 9 million euros ($12 million) by exercising stock
options. Sundt left Telekom Austria in 2006. Colombo followed a
year later.  Lawyers representing Sundt and Colombo didn’t immediately
answer requests for comment. Nobody answered the single
telephone number listed for Heinz Sundt in the Austrian
telephone book. Colombo, an Italian national, wasn’t listed.  “I very much appreciate the possibility to present the
facts that I have about the employee stock ownership plan of
Telekom  Austria  to an independent judge,” Johann Wanovits, the
banker accused of helping manipulate the share price, said today
in a statement. His lawyer, Rainer Rienmueller, said a central
question in the case was weather the company suffered any
damages.  Telekom Austria, which has been cooperating with the
prosecutors’ investigation, said Feb. 23 that it sought the
return of 20 million euros worth of improperly paid bonuses.  ‘Biggest Mistake’  Another manager charged by prosecutors, former deputy CEO
Rudolf Fischer, has offered to repay money paid to Wanovits’s
brokerage to carry out the stock-price manipulation and has
already “to a good extent” compensated Telekom Austria, his
lawyer said in a statement, adding that today’s charges were
“legally amiss.” Fischer, who has called the experience “the
biggest mistake in my life,” left the company in 2008.  Sundt,  Colombo  and Fischer declined to comment in March and
April before an Austrian parliamentary probe into alleged share-
price manipulation at the company.  The prosecutors are investigating about 40 people in
relation to Telekom Austria, according to the statement.
“Additional charges are to be expected,” they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  