-- Tembec Joins Lumber Rally as Tissues Lift Pulp
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2012-10-03T14:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/tembec-joins-lumber-rally-as-tissues-lift-pulp.html
Tembec Inc. (TMB)  is joining the revival
among Canadian forest-product stocks as Chinese demand for
bathroom tissue lifts pulp prices and lumber surges on a U.S.
housing rebound.  The Montreal-based maker of pulp, softwood, hardwood and
pine lumber, rose the most in almost a year yesterday after
producers, including  Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3) , the world’s largest
maker of hardwood pulp, raised prices for the raw material used
in paper and tissue.  “Underlying all this are huge increases in Chinese demand
for tissue paper that’s goosing demand for hardwood and softwood
pulp,” Brian McClay, founder of Brian McClay & Associates Inc.,
a Montreal-based pulp-industry consultancy, said yesterday by
telephone.  Tembec, which is also benefiting from a recovery in U.S.
housing demand,  derived  59 percent of its C$1.74 billion ($1.77
billion) in 2011 revenue from pulp, 22 percent from forest
products such as lumber, and 19 percent from paper.  “As  China  becomes more and more urbanized, tens of
millions of people every year are moving into apartments and
dwellings with flush toilets and they’re using more bathroom
tissue,” McClay said.  Last year China consumed a record 6.74 million metric tons
of tissue paper, virtually all of it the bathroom variety, about
19 percent more than in 2010, McClay said. New paper mills will
probably increase the country’s capacity to produce tissue this
year by about 1.6 million tons, he said.  “While many people believe that tissue capacity is being
overbuilt in China, tissue paper prices continues to rise,”
McClay said. “The outlook is for more of the same.”  Price Rises  Fibria, based in  Sao Paulo , announced price increases
effective Oct. 1 for hardwood pulp in  Asia ,  Europe  and  North
America , with the North American price rising to $830 a ton,
according to data compiled by RISI, a paper and forest industry
information provider based in Bedford,  Massachusetts .  Domtar Corp. (UFS)  was the first company to announce a $20 price
increase for Northern Bleached Softwood Kraft pulp sold in North
America and made from spruce, pine and fir sawmill chips, McClay
said. Domtar was followed by Canfor Pulp Products Inc., Tembec,
 Mercer International Inc. (MERC) , and others, he added. The price
increases, which are not generally made public, don’t guarantee
a rise, as some customers may not agree.  Tembec  closed  up 10 percent at C$2.25 in Toronto yesterday,
its biggest gain since October 2011 and was up 0.9 percent at
C$2.27 at 10:29 a.m. today. Vancouver-based  Canfor Pulp Products
Inc. (CFX)  rose 6.8 percent to C$10.03 yesterday while Domtar Corp.,
North America’s largest maker of office paper, gained 3.1
percent to C$78.22 in Toronto. All have declined this year
through yesterday, with Tembec down 19 percent.  Changing Media  A combination of expected inventory restocking in China and
rising pulp prices signals a “mini-rally” that will last
through the first half of 2013, said Kevin Mason, Gibsons,
British Columbia-based managing director of ERA Forest Products
Research, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  The long-term outlook for pulp remains fragile as important
consumers, such as newspapers and printing companies, struggle
with a changing media landscape.  Companies with more exposure to lumber have led the rally
in forest stocks this year as the U.S. housing market has
rebounded and amid growing Chinese demand for wood building
products.  West Fraser Timber Co. (WFT)  has gained 37 percent, while
 Western Forest Products Inc. (WEF)  has risen 32 percent.  Purchases of new U.S. homes in August held close to a two-
year high. Sales dipped 0.3 percent to a 373,000 annual pace
following a revised 374,000 rate in July that was higher than
previously estimated and the strongest since April 2010, figures
from the Commerce Department showed.  Prices for 1,000 board feet of British Columbia benchmark
spruce, pine or fir lumber have advanced 12 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tembec is “deeply” undervalued, Kevin Cohen, an analyst
at Imperial Capital LLC in  New York , said by phone. “They have
a lot of exposure to lumber and the stock hasn’t moved but
lumber prices have moved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  