-- Emerging Stocks Fall for First Time in Five Days on Oil
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-10-03T21:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/emerging-stocks-fall-for-first-time-in-five-days-on-oil-china.html
Emerging-market stocks declined for
the first time in five days as falling crude-oil prices dragged
producers lower and China’s service industries expanded at the
weakest pace in more than a year.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slid 0.4 percent to
1,002.50. Brazil’s Bovespa stock  index (VXEEM)  dropped 1 percent, with
power company  Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo  and state-controlled
oil producer Petroleo Brasileiro SA falling. Russian oil company
OAO  Tatneft (TATN)  declined 2.2 percent, after profit sank 17 percent
in the first half. PetroChina Co., China’s biggest oil producer,
slid 1 percent. Indexes in Russia, Turkey and Mexico retreated.  Oil fell below $90 a barrel in New York after U.S. crude
stockpiles climbed for a fourth week and concern rose that
demand will decline as the Chinese economy weakens. China’s non-
manufacturing purchasing managers’ index slid to 53.7 from 56.3
in August, according to official reports today, underscoring a
slowdown that spurred the  Asian Development Bank  to lower its
2012 regional growth estimate.  “The Chinese PMI figure was not fantastic, and even though
services is not a main sector in China, it has some negative
impact,” Guillaume Tresca, a senior emerging market strategist
at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank, said in a phone
interview from Paris. “Falling oil prices may lead the market
lower in the short term, but it provides emerging market central
banks with some leeway to carry out rate cuts.”  China Services  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, slid 0.7
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, declined 1.2 percent.  China’s non-manufacturing industries expanded at the
weakest pace since at least March 2011 as officials struggle to
reverse a slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy. The
ADB cut its forecast for Chinese economic growth to 7.7 percent
this year from a previous estimate of 8.2 percent. The Manila-
based lender also said downside risk for  China’s economy  may
intensify in the short term.  “China is the main driver today,” Peter Westin, chief
equity strategist at Aton Capital in Moscow, said by e-mail.
“Commodities are reacting negatively to data out of China,
suggesting further economic slowdown.” Copper and zinc futures
dropped.  The Bovespa index fell to the lowest since Sept. 10. Cia.
Energetica de Sao Paulo, or Cesp as the state-controlled power
company is known, dropped 5.1 percent after Folha de S.Paulo
reported that Sao Paulo gave up plans to sell its stake in the
utility. In a phone interview with  Bloomberg News  today,
Planning Secretary Julio Semeghini, who was cited in the story,
said that the state decided not to include proceeds from the
sale in its 2013 budget. It still plans to carry on with the
deal when market conditions are more “favorable,” he said.
Petrobras lost 1.6 percent.  Rand Retreats  Russia’s Micex Index fell for a second day, losing 0.9
percent. Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  lost 0.4 percent. The BSE India
Sensitive Index, or Sensex, gained 0.2 percent amid optimism the
government will undertake measures to revive growth.  Emerging market equities will gain 15 percent next year,
Citigroup Inc. analysts led by Geoffrey Dennis wrote in a report
today. “While earnings forecasts have been falling steadily,
valuations still look attractive,” they said.  “Our top market
picks are Korea, China, Thailand, Peru and the Czech Republic.”
The analysts cut their rating on South Africa to neutral on
higher political risk.  The South African rand depreciated 0.8 percent versus the
dollar, the worst performer among emerging market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The Polish zloty erased losses,
strengthening 0.6 percent after the central bank unexpectedly
left  interest rates  unchanged today.  Biggest Loss  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME) , the world’s biggest listed palm-oil
producer, tumbled 3.4 percent in  Kuala Lumpur  after the
commodity posted its steepest loss since October 2008 yesterday.  Construction materials and energy companies were the
biggest  losers  on the MSCI Emerging Markets Index today. The
broader measure has risen 9.4 percent this year, trailing a 12
percent increase in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed countries.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
dollar bonds over  U.S. Treasuries  slid four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 300, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost in  Hong Kong  at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  