-- Tesco Reports First Profit Decline in Almost Two Decades
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-10-03T09:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/tesco-reports-first-profit-decline-in-almost-two-decades-1-.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest
retailer, reported the first profit drop in almost two decades
after increasing investment to halt declining supermarket sales.  So-called trading profit fell 11 percent to 1.59 billion
pounds ($2.6 billion) in the first half of the financial year,
also hurt by reduced earnings in  South Korea  and central  Europe ,
Cheshunt, England-based Tesco said  today . The average estimate
of 12 analysts compiled by Bloomberg was 1.62 billion pounds.  Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  said it’s too early
to call a turn after U.K. same-store sales snapped a run of six
straight quarterly declines in the second quarter. The 0.1
percent sales increase trailed a 1.9 percent gain reported today
by competitor  J Sainsbury Plc. (SBRY)  Clarke has pledged to invest 1
billion pounds in new products, additional staffing and Tesco’s
2,900 U.K. stores as he seeks to rebound from a seven-year low
in market share.  “There is little in these results to give investors
confidence Tesco will return to being a double-digit growth
story in the near term,” said Caroline Gulliver, an analyst at
Espirito Santo. She has a neutral recommendation on the stock.  Tesco fell as much as 2.1 percent in  London  trading and was
down 1.3 percent at 332.5 pence as of 9:33 a.m. The  shares  have
fallen 18 percent this year, while Sainsbury has gained 15
percent. Sainsbury rose 0.6 percent to 349 pence at 9:33 a.m.  Modernization Work  Tesco said changes being made to its domestic business are
being favorably received by customers.  More than 8,000 staff have been added, while about 230
stores have undergone modernization work, the company said.  “The changes are coming through at a pace,” Clarke said
on a conference call. “Customers are starting to tell us they
like what they’re seeing. I wouldn’t be saying we’ve turned the
corner, we’re on the road.”  The 0.1 percent increase in U.K. same-store sales, reported
on a basis that excludes fuel and value-added tax, was the first
since the third quarter of the 2011 financial year.  The second-quarter performance “tell us that its
underperformance in the U.K. may well have bottomed out,” said
 Bryan Roberts , an analyst at Kantar Retail in London.  Sainsbury Sales  Sainsbury’s same-store sales growth accelerated from 1.3
percent in the previous quarter, excluding gasoline. The third-
largest U.K. supermarket chain said its own-label range and
money-off vouchers helped win price-conscious shoppers.  Sainsbury said its price perception among shoppers is
improving because of the Brand Match campaign, which offers
shoppers a coupon if the same product is available for less at
Tesco or Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda. More than half the time
Sainsbury is cheaper, Chief Executive Officer Justin King said.  The external environment “continues to present challenges
all over the world,” Tesco’s Clarke said. The retailer gets
about a third of sales and earnings from outside of the U.K.  In South Korea, Tesco’s second-largest market after Britain,
profit was hurt by restrictions to store opening hours. All of
its stores, including convenience outlets, are now closed for
two Sundays a month, the peak trading day which typically
accounts for 20 percent of weekly revenue. The impact on full-
year profit will be about 100 million pounds, which will be
weighted toward the second half, Tesco said today.  Asia, Europe  Trading profit in  Asia , which also includes China, Thailand
and  Malaysia , fell 3.8 percent to 281 million pounds in the
first half, while earnings in European countries including
 Poland , the  Czech Republic  and Hungary dropped 28 percent to 171
million pounds. About 17 percent of revenue in the latter region
comes from non-food items such as electrical goods, which have
been hit as consumers curb discretionary spending, Chief
Financial Officer Laurie McIlwee said.  Losses at the U.S. Fresh & Easy chain narrowed by 1.4
percent to 74 million pounds in the first half.  “We need more from Fresh & Easy,” including getting and
tracking more customers, Clarke said on the call. The business
will maintain its push to get more existing stores into
profitability before it opens any further outlets, he said.  Tesco maintained the first-half  dividend  at 4.63 pence, the
first time this century that it hasn’t raised the payout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  