-- Tesla CEO Musk Says U.S. ‘Bullish’ on Electric-Car Maker
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-10-04T20:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/tesla-ceo-says-u-s-bullish-on-electric-car-maker.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the maker of
electric cars led by  Elon Musk , said it’s making its first
payment early on U.S. Energy Department loans the California
startup used to engineer and produce the Model S sedan.  Tesla, which qualified for $465 million in U.S. loans in
June 2009, last week said in a filing that the Energy Department
requested a faster repayment schedule by Oct. 31 as it expands
sales of the $57,400 Model S and additional all-electric cars.
The  Palo Alto , California-based company was “happy” to oblige,
Musk said yesterday.  “Far from being worried about our survival, the DOE is
highly bullish about our future and doesn’t want us to delay
early repayment of the loan if we have the cash on hand to do
so,” Musk said in a blog post on the company’s  website . “I am
happy to announce that we will be initiating an advance payment
today to prefund the principal payment that is due in March
2013.”  The Energy Department is working with Tesla to accelerate
its repayment schedule, Bill Gibbons, a department spokesman,
said in an e-mail. “Tesla continues to make loan payments on
time and in full,” he said.  The company and the Energy Department will develop a
prepayment plan over the next few months that’s in the interest
of both sides, said Christina Ra, a company spokeswoman.  ‘Crony Capitalism’  The loan program used by Tesla, Fisker Automotive Inc.,
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  was created in 2008 by
President  George W. Bush ’s administration to spur a U.S. market
for highly fuel-efficient cars and trucks. Money was disbursed
by President  Barack Obama , who set a goal of having 1 million
electric vehicles on U.S. roads by 2015.  Musk announced the early repayment hours before Obama and
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  held their first
debate in Denver. The automotive loan program, as well as the
bailouts of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC, have been
topics of conversation on the campaign trail this year, with
Romney in March calling Tesla and Fisker beneficiaries of
Obama’s “crony capitalism.”  Romney, in the debate, said Obama has picked “losers” in
alternative-energy loans and grants. He repeated references in a
Sept. 28 campaign appearance to Tesla, Fisker, failed solar-
panel maker Solyndra LLC and Ener1 Inc., which filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in January after receiving a $118 million
Energy Department grant to make electric-car batteries.  Winners, Losers  “I mean, I had a friend who said you don’t just pick the
winners and losers, you pick the losers, all right?” Romney
said. “So this is not the kind of policy you want to have if
you want to get America energy secure.”  Romney didn’t mention Ford or Nissan, profitable automakers
that received the two largest loans from the vehicle program.  Musk said yesterday that Tesla, which hasn’t turned a
profit, expects to be “cash flow positive” by the end of
November.  Republican vice presidential candidate  Paul Ryan  in a CBS
News interview last month criticized loans to Fisker, which has
delayed producing a car in the U.S. Ryan didn’t mention Tesla or
other vehicle-loan recipients.  Fisker said this week it’s delivered more than 1,500 of its
$103,000 plug-in Karma sedans to U.S. customers. The Anaheim,
California-based company said last week it raised an additional
$100 million from private investors.  Musk, in a June speech at the company’s production plant,
said a Romney victory would have a “minor impact” on the U.S.
electric car market because “there’s such momentum behind
electric vehicles.”  Sales of rechargeable autos, including battery-only cars
such as Tesla’s Model S and plug-in hybrids that include a
gasoline engine for added range, are up 186 percent this year to
31,743 vehicles, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Loan Payments  Tesla previously said it would begin repaying loan
principal in December, as required under the lending agreement.
Its repayment schedule for interest on the loan began in
February, according to last week’s filing.  One amendment to the loan repayment terms was a reduction
in the amount Tesla was required to hold in a repayment fund,
Musk said yesterday.  “In discussions with the DOE, Tesla has never asked for or
even hinted at postponing repayment of the loan,” he said.  “We did suggest that holding nine months’ worth of
principal payments in advance in a reserved account was a bit
extreme and, moreover, was never part of our original loan
agreement,” Musk said. “The DOE agreed and reduced the advance
payment reserve account to six months.”  Investors may welcome accelerated repayments of the loans
because it would “suggest that the company is on surer
financial footing,”  Amir Rozwadowski , a Barclays analyst who
has an overweight rating on Tesla shares, said in a report
today. That also would remove “the political headline risk
around Tesla’s attachment to what seems to be perceived as an
unsuccessful government program,” he said.  Offer Closed  The company, which initially offered shares to the public
in June 2010, sold 6.93 million more in a secondary offering
that closed yesterday. Tesla has said it expects to receive net
proceeds of $192.7 million, or $221.6 million if the
underwriter, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., exercises its option to
purchase additional shares in full.  Those funds are being set aside for “ risk reduction ,”
Musk said yesterday.  “Given that we do have a global supply chain and that
floods, fires, hurricanes or earthquakes can cause supply chain
interruptions and halt production, we thought it would make
sense to raise capital to protect against such an event,” Musk
said.  Tesla last week lowered its 2012 production target to as
many as 3,225 cars from about 5,000. Through the end of
September, the company has built 359 Model S vehicles at its
Fremont, California, plant, and delivered more than 250, Musk
said yesterday.  Tesla shares rose 0.3 percent to $29.40 at the close in  New
York . They’ve gained 2.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  