-- Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Says Birnbaum Steps Down as Co-CEO
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-10-03T23:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/metro-goldwyn-mayer-says-birnbaum-steps-down-as-co-ceo.html
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc., the movie
studio weighing an initial public offering, said Roger Birnbaum
stepped down as co-chairman and co-chief executive officer.  Gary Barber will become sole chairman and CEO, the Los
Angeles-based company said today in an e-mailed statement.
Birnbaum will produce movies exclusively for the studio and will
retain offices there.  The move puts Barber clearly in charge as the studio
considers an initial public offering, while letting Birnbaum
return to producing, which he called his “greatest passion” in
the statement. Parent  MGM Holdings Inc. (MGMB)  said in July that it
submitted an IPO registration under the Jumpstart Our Business
Startups Act, which lets companies with annual sales of less
than $1 billion file confidentially with regulators.  MGM Holdings has no specific deadline for completing the
stock sale, according to a person with knowlege of its plans.  The company was working to complete its IPO before the next
James Bond film, “Skyfall,” opens starting Oct. 26 in  Europe 
and Nov. 9 in the U.S., people familiar with the situation said
last month.  The JOBS Act, enacted in April, requires the filings be
made public 21 days before starting a road show -- a process
usually lasting about two weeks -- and completing a sale. With
no public filing by now, the rules suggest any IPO would
probably occur after the “Skyfall” debut.  ‘Skyfall,’ ‘Hobbit’  MGM put itself up for sale in early 2010 as it struggled
under debt from a $5 billion buyout, attracting bids from  Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , people familiar
with the situation said then.  The company later filed for bankruptcy, and Barber and
Birnbaum were appointed co-chairmen and co-CEOs in December 2010
when the company emerged. They remain partners in Spyglass
Entertainment, which owns a library of films but no longer
produces them.  In addition to “Skyfall,” made under a distribution and
co-financing partnership with  Sony Corp. (6758) , MGM is partners with
Time Warner Inc.’s New Line Cinema on a trilogy of movies based
on J.R.R. Tolkien’s book, “The Hobbit.” The first title, “The
Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey,” is scheduled to open in
theaters on Dec. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  