-- Monte Paschi Falls Short as EU Lenders Boost Capital
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-03T17:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/eu-banks-raised-258-billion-capital-to-fight-crisis-eba-says.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA 
and banks in Cyprus and Slovenia failed to meet European Union
capital targets as lenders raised more than 200 billion euros
($258 billion) to bolster investor confidence.  The 27 banks with shortfalls that were required by the
European Banking Authority to submit plans for their capital
raising attained a total of 116 billion euros, the London-based
EBA said today. Including aid to Greek and Spanish banks,
European lenders increased their capital reserves by more than
200 billion euros since 2011, according to an EBA report
published on its website.  “The key positive in the response of banks to this
exercise is that 75 percent of the shortfall was raised by
retaining earnings and other measures -- fresh capital,” Andrea Enria, chairman of the EBA, said in an interview today.  Investor confidence in the EU’s banking industry nosedived
as the sovereign debt crisis faced by countries including
Greece, Spain and  Italy  worsened last year. The EBA told
European banks in December to raise 114.7 billion euros in new
capital. The agency required banks to keep a core Tier-1 capital
ratio of 9 percent and hold additional reserves, called a
sovereign buffer, to protect against falling bond prices among
euro-area nations.  Banks will be required to maintain their capital levels
rather than pay out the money raised in dividends or bonuses
“to be able to absorb unexpected losses and to support a smooth
convergence” to tougher global standards, known as Basel III,
the EBA said.  Sovereign Buffer  The sovereign buffer will remain in place for the time
being, and will be evaluated in the future based on “the market
environment,” the EBA said.  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, Bank of Cyprus Pcl, and Nova
Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. are the other three lenders missing
the target. Any public support needed to get these lenders to
the 9 percent threshold should be activated by the end of 2012,
the EBA said.  “The necessary backstops have been endorsed by the
corresponding governments and are being implemented” for Monte
Paschi, based in Siena, Italy, and the Cypriot lenders, the
EBA said.  Oldest Bank  Monte Paschi, the world’s oldest bank, missed a June
capital target by 1.7 billion euros, the lender said in a
statement on its website. This “is being addressed” with the
explicit support of the Italian government,” the lender said.  “The news is only the confirmation of what was already
known,” said Fabrizio Bernardi, a Milan-based analyst at
Fidentiis Equities. “Monte Paschi needs to address the issue by
the year end. The implementation of state aid request will allow
it to become EBA compliant.”  Monte Paschi is borrowing 3.4 billion euros by selling
bonds to the state to plug the capital gap, after Chief
Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola, who took over in January,
failed to find private funding to meet the EBA’s requirement.  Nova Kreditna expects to meet the target “through private
measures” by end 2012, the agency said. Slovenian authorities
have committed to an “ultimate and eventual recapitalization”
if needed.  Nova Kreditna “needs at least 100 million euros in fresh
capital as it will probably report a loss this year, similar to
last year’s at around 80 million euros,” Andraz Grahek, an
independent financial analyst and a former  fund manager  at KD
Funds LLC in Ljubljana.  Capital Boost  Measures to boost Nova Kreditna’s capital ratio are
“already in progress,” the bank said in a website statement.
The lender’s core capital ratio at the end of June was 7.4
percent of risk-weighted assets, it said.  The two Cypriot banks that failed to reach the capital
level had a combined shortfall of 1.86 billion euros, the
nation’s central bank said in a statement.  Calls to Bank of Cyprus and Cyprus Popular Bank’s investor
relations departments after the results were released received
no reply.  Lenders will be expected to set out plans for meeting the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision rules, which more than
triple the core reserves lenders have to hold compared to
previous international standards. The measures are scheduled to
fully apply from 2019.  Biggest Banks  The EU’s 44 biggest banks would have needed an extra 312
billion euros in their core reserves when taking into account
additional surcharges to account for systemic risk if the rules
had been in place in 2011, the EBA  said  last week.  “No doubt part of the objective here is to underpin
investor confidence, but it does suggest that banks will have to
step up efforts to raise equity,”  Richard Reid , research
director for the International Centre for Financial Regulation
in  London , said by e-mail.  Banks’ road-maps for meeting the Basel rules “will be
monitored by national supervisors in cooperation with the EBA,”
the regulator said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  