-- European Banks Told to Hold On to $258 Billion of Fresh Capital
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/european-banks-told-to-hold-on-to-258-billion-of-fresh-capital.html
The European Union’s top banking
regulator told the bloc’s lenders to hold on to more than 200
billion euros ($258 billion) in capital raised to pave the way
for tougher global standards.  The 27 banks that were required by  the European Banking
Authority  to submit plans for their capital raising attained a
total of 116 billion euros, the London-based EBA said yesterday.
Including aid to Greek and Spanish banks, European lenders
increased their capital reserves by more than 200 billion euros
since 2011, according to an EBA report published on its website.  “We want banks to hold on to and keep building capital,”
Andrea Enria, chairman of the EBA, said in an interview
yesterday. “The key positive in the response of banks to this
exercise is that 75 percent of the shortfall was raised by
retaining earnings and other measures -- fresh capital.”  Investor confidence in the EU’s banking industry nosedived
as the sovereign debt crisis faced by countries including
Greece, Spain and Italy worsened last year. The EBA told
European banks in December to raise 114.7 billion euros in new
capital. The agency required lenders to keep a core Tier-1
capital ratio of 9 percent and hold additional reserves, called
a sovereign buffer, to protect against falling bond prices among
euro-area nations.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  and banks in Cyprus and
Slovenia failed to meet European capital targets.  ‘Weaker Links’  “The tests forced some discipline on capital and some of
the weaker links were forced to raise equity,” said  Ronny Rehn ,
an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in  London . “Still, the
tests don’t reveal the true stress of banks’ loan books.”  Banks will be required to maintain their loss-bearing
buffers rather than pay out the money raised in dividends or
bonuses “to be able to absorb unexpected losses and to support
a smooth convergence” to tougher standards, known as Basel III,
the EBA said.  The sovereign buffer will remain in place for the time
being, and will be evaluated in the future based on “the market
environment,” the EBA said.  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, Bank of Cyprus Pcl, and Nova
Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. are the other three lenders missing
the target. Any public support needed to get these lenders to
the 9 percent threshold should be activated by the end of 2012,
the EBA said.  “The necessary backstops have been endorsed by the
corresponding governments and are being implemented” for Monte
Paschi, based in Siena,  Italy , and the Cypriot lenders, the EBA
said.  Oldest Bank  Monte Paschi, the world’s oldest bank, missed a June
capital target by 1.7 billion euros, the lender said in a
statement on its website. This “is being addressed” with the
explicit support of the Italian government,” the lender said.  “The news is only the confirmation of what was already
known,” said Fabrizio Bernardi, a Milan-based analyst at
Fidentiis Equities. “Monte Paschi needs to address the issue by
the year end. The implementation of state aid request will allow
it to become EBA compliant.”  Monte Paschi is borrowing 3.4 billion euros by selling
bonds to the state to plug the capital gap, after Chief
Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola, who took over in January,
failed to find private funding to meet the EBA’s requirement.  Lenders will be expected to set out plans for meeting the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision rules, which more than
triple the core reserves lenders have to hold compared to
previous international standards. The measures are scheduled to
fully apply from 2019.  Systemic Risk  The EU’s 44 biggest banks would have needed an extra 312
billion euros in their core reserves when taking into account
additional surcharges to account for  systemic risk  if the rules
had been in place in 2011, the EBA  said  last week.  “No doubt part of the objective here is to underpin
investor confidence, but it does suggest that banks will have to
step up efforts to raise equity,”  Richard Reid , research
director for the International Centre for Financial Regulation
in London, said by e-mail.  Banks’ road-maps for meeting the Basel rules “will be
monitored by national supervisors in cooperation with the EBA,”
the regulator said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  