-- Global Services Weaken as Europe Slumps: Economy
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-10-03T11:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/euro-area-manufacturing-services-output-contracts-for-8th-month.html
Services industries from  Asia  to
 Europe  cooled last month after the euro-area debt crisis pulled
economies including Spain and  Italy  into recession and damped
global growth prospects.  The purchasing managers’ index fell to 53.7 in September
from 56.3 in August, the National Bureau of Statistics and  China 
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing in Beijing said today.
That’s the lowest since at least March 2011. In the  euro-area , a
gauge slipped to 46.1 last month from 47.2 and a U.K. measure
also fell. Readings below 50 indicate contraction.  China’s weaker services number underscores a slowdown that
spurred the  Asian Development Bank  to lower its 2012 regional
growth estimate. As Europe’s  economic slump  deepens amid a
fiscal squeeze and weakening confidence, the ADB said the threat
of a “shock emanating from the unresolved euro-area sovereign
debt crisis” is among the biggest downside risks to Asia.  “The global environment will remain challenging,” said
 Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Nomura International Plc in
 London . “In the euro area, there’s a lack of demand because of
austerity; some countries have suffered more than others. We
expect the economy to shrink again in the third quarter with a
significant chance for another contraction in the fourth.”  British Stagnation  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  slipped 0.3 percent today. In
Europe, the Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.1 percent at 1:14 p.m.
in  Frankfurt . The euro was little changed versus the dollar,
trading at $1.2905.  In Britain, a services measure dropped more than economists
forecast to 52.2 in September from 53.7. Markit said the
underlying trend in the U.K. economy is near stagnation.  A composite index of euro-area  manufacturing and services 
industries fell to 46.1 from 46.3, Markit also said today. In
 Germany , the region’s largest economy, France and Italy, the
services indicators were all below 50 last month. The gauge for
 Spain  dropped to 40.2 from 44.  “It seems inevitable that the region will have fallen back
into recession in the third quarter,” said Markit Chief
Economist Chris Williamson. There “seems little scope for a
return to growth in the fourth quarter,” he said.  Recession Risk  Euro-area governments may find it more difficult to plug
their budget gaps with at least five euro nations already in
recession and the fiscal crisis spreading from the periphery to
core countries. In Germany,  business confidence  unexpectedly
declined to the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years in September.
French consumers also grew more pessimistic last month.  Joachim Fels, chief economist at Morgan Stanley, said the
euro area’s economic gloom will deepen.  “First of all there’s still fiscal tightening going on,”
Fels told  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance” on Oct. 1. “We have a global economy that has
entered what I call the twilight zone -- that’s the fuzzy area
between sustained expansion and renewed recession. The global
data are still weakening. There are domestic and global reasons
why the economy in Europe is weakening further.”  Separately today, euro-area retail sales barely grew in
August, rising 0.1 percent from the previous month, the European
Union’s statistics office said. Sales dropped 1.3 percent from a
year earlier. the report showed.  Asian Outlook  With consumers holding back spending and global demand
faltering, European companies may struggle to maintain their
sales growth. Daimler AG, the world’s third-largest luxury-
vehicle maker, said on Sept. 20 that earnings at its car
division will drop in 2012. Royal DSM NV Chief Executive Officer
Feike Sijbesma said last month that he remains cautious about
the near-term economic outlook.  The ADB  forecast  that Asia excluding  Japan  will expand 6.1
percent this year, the slowest pace since 2009. The growth
projection for developing Asia this year compares with a July
estimate of 6.6 percent and an April prediction of 6.9 percent.  “The possibility of a shock emanating from the unresolved
euro-area sovereign debt crisis or a sharp fiscal contraction in
the U.S. pose the biggest downside risks to the economy,” the
ADB said. “Fortunately, most developing Asian economies have
room to counteract such shocks with fiscal and monetary
policy.”  ECB Decision  Service industries  in the U.S. probably expanded in
September at about the same pace as in the prior month,
indicating the biggest part of the economy is making scant
progress. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-
manufacturing index, which covers almost 90 percent of the
economy, fell to 53.4 last month from 53.7 in August, according
to the median forecast of 77 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The  European Central Bank , which has pledged to purchase
 government bonds  along with the region’s rescue fund to fight
the fiscal crisis, will leave its benchmark  interest rate  at
0.75 percent at a meeting tomorrow, a Bloomberg survey shows.
The central bank last month lowered its euro-area economic
forecast for this year, predicting a contraction of 0.4 percent
instead of 0.1 percent. In 2013, th economy may expand 0.5
percent, it said. That’s half the pace projected in June.  The euro-area economy contracted 0.2 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months.  “Essentially flat retail sales in August and deepened
service sector contraction in September makes further euro-zone
gross domestic product contraction in the third quarter look
ever more inevitable,” said  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in London. “This would put the
eurozone back into recession in every sense of the word.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  