-- Teva Pulls Version of Wellbutrin XL on Effectiveness
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-04T08:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/teva-pulls-version-of-wellbutrin-xl-on-effectiveness.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s largest generic-drug maker, pulled a copy of the
antidepressant Wellbutrin XL from the U.S. market after
regulators said it isn’t the same as the brand-name medicine.  The  Food and Drug Administration  conducted tests after
patients complained that Teva’s 300-milligram copycat version of
the extended release medicine didn’t work, Greg Geba, director
of the agency’s Office of Generic Drugs, said. Eighty-five
people reported concerns from January 2007 to June 2007 about
the 300-mg dose of Teva’s Budeprion XL drug, which was approved
in 2006.  While other generic medicines have been withdrawn because
they don’t work as well as the brand, it hasn’t happened
frequently, the FDA  said . The agency said it may pursue other
products. More than two years ago, regulators began discussing
whether to tighten equivalency standards for copycat drugs.  “It spotlights the inaccuracy of the common myth that
generics are identical to name brands,”  Erik Gordon , a business
professor at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor  who studies
the drug industry. “They are supposed to be pharmacologically
equivalent, not identical, and that leaves some wiggle room. Now
we see that the FDA allows companies to guess that different
doses are equivalent.”  Teva stock traded in Tel Aviv  dropped  as much as 1.9
percent to 157.5 shekels, the biggest intraday decline since
Aug. 15, and was trading down 1.6 percent as of 10:37 a.m. The
company’s American depositary receipts fell 1 percent to $40.79
at the close in New York yesterday.  GlaxoSmithKline Original  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , based in  London , sells Wellbutrin XL
and splits profits with the manufacturer, Montreal-based  Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)   Mylan Inc. (MYL) , based in
Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania , and  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc., (WPI)  based
in Parsippany,  New Jersey , also make generic versions.  The FDA initially required companies to study generic
versions of Wellbutrin XL only in the 150-mg dose and allowed
them to extrapolate the results to the 300-mg dose because of
concerns with seizure risk, Barbara Davit, director of the
division of bioequivalence II in the Office of Generic Drugs,
said yesterday during a conference call. The agency will now
require testing on the highest available strength, she said.  Teva’s Partner  Impax Laboratories Inc. (IPXL) , based in Hayward,  California ,
makes the drug marketed by Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva.
Impax requested the FDA withdraw approval, and Impax and Teva
have stopped shipping the product, Geba said.  “There is no material impact to Teva,” Denise Bradley, a
spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mail. “We have no
comment on whether we will launch our own version of this
product at this time.”  The withdrawal also isn’t material to Impax and the company
won’t reveal whether it will attempt to bring another generic
Wellbutrin XL to market, Mark Donohue, a company spokesman, said
in a telephone interview. Impax fell 2.3 percent to $26.39
yesterday at the close of trading in New York.  About 2 percent of patients who take a generic version of
the depression drug use Teva’s product, said Geba of the FDA.  FDA Review  The FDA’s  Janet Woodcock , director of the Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research, said in October 2010 that the agency
was discussing tightening standards for how closely generic
drugs resemble brand-name equivalents after patients and
employees of generic-drug makers complained that some of the
medicines don’t work as well as the brand-name counterparts.  The standards assure that the generic is absorbed at the
same rate and extent as the brand-name version. At the time,
Woodcock cited generic anti-seizure medications for concern.  In April 2010, a group of outside FDA advisers voted 11-2
that the agency’s equivalence requirements aren’t sufficient for
certain medicines. An FDA official suggested then those
medicines include digoxin for various heart conditions, lithium 
used to treat manic episodes, phenytoin for a certain type of 
seizures and the blood-thinner warfarin.  Initial Analysis  After the initial complaints in 2007 about Teva’s version
of Wellbutrin XL, the agency determined recurring symptoms are
common during major depressive disorder and the differences in
the drugs weren’t outside established rules for equivalence.  The FDA asked Teva and Impax to study the 300-mg dose after
the complaints. The agency decided to begin its own study in
2010 after the companies had problems enrolling patients, Geba
said. The FDA produced results in August of its study in 24
patients comparing Teva’s copy with the brand-name.  The agency is revising new guidelines for bupropion, the
active ingredient in Wellbutrin XL, and is asking makers of
other copies of the medicine to retest their products, Geba
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  