-- Ex-Lazard Banker Costa Joins Goldman Dealmakers at Buyout Firm
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-10-03T13:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/ex-lazard-banker-costa-joins-goldman-dealmakers-at-buyout-firm.html
Ken Costa, the former chairman of
 Lazard Ltd.’s (LAZ)  international unit, joined Developing Markets
Capital Partners, a private equity firm set up by three former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  executives.  Costa, 62, has become the fifth partner at DMC, Chris Barter, one of the private-equity firm’s founders, said in an
interview in Moscow yesterday. He joins Barter, Edward K. Eisler, a former co-head of Goldman’s global securities unit,
Samuel Wisnia, former head of the firm’s global macro strats
and structure, as well as Philippe Costeletos, who formerly
ran TPG Capital’s European unit. Costa didn’t return an e-mail
seeking comment.  Started earlier this year, DMC is yet to raise its first
private equity fund. Moscow-based Baring Vostok this week raised
$1.5 billion for the largest fund targeting  Russia , prompting
speculation of a revival in investor appetite for private equity
funds targeting  emerging markets . Russian funds attracted just
$135 million in 2011, compared with $7.08 billion for Brazil and
$16.6 billion for  China , according to data compiled by the
Washington-based Emerging Markets Private Equity Association.  “We are looking at investing in China, Russia,  Southeast
Asia ,  Turkey  and sub-Saharan Africa,” Barter said. “There are
huge synergies in investing across those regions and timing
those markets appropriately. There are substantial emerging
trade flows between those countries as we have seen between
Russia and China and there are significant capital flows
following those trade flows.”  Tinkoff Credit  Eisler is chief executive officer of the London-based firm,
which has 20 personnel there and in other cities including
Moscow, Barter said. He left New York-based Goldman Sachs this
year after 19 years.  Under Barter, Goldman Sachs spent about $1 billion on 15
Russian private equity investments, which helped the firm to
secure work advising on debt and stock offerings. The bank
advised on internet firm  Mail.ru Group Ltd.’s (MAIL)  $912 million
initial public offering in November 2010 after making an earlier
investment in the company. It also acquired a stake in Tinkoff
Credit Systems, a credit card issuer which plans to sell shares
next year.  “Investors are looking for growth and it’s hard to imagine
you are going to make a lot of return in economies that are
shrinking or growing at 1 to 2 percent anaemically for the next
three to five years,” Barter said.  Russia’s gross domestic product increased by 4 percent in
the second quarter from the year-earlier period, less than
President  Vladimir Putin ’s 6 percent medium-term goal. India
expanded 5.5 percent while China grew by 7.6 percent. Growth is
weakening in developed countries like the U.S., where the
economy expanded by 1.7 percent in the second quarter from the
year earlier period, less than the 2 percent increase in the
first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  