-- Texas Voters End Suit Seeking to Block Voter-Roll Purge
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   K e l l e y   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-10-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/texas-voters-drop-suit-seeking-to-block-voter-roll-purge.html
Four  Texas  voters resolved a lawsuit
that sought to stop the state from deleting as many as 68,000
possibly dead people from voter rolls before the Nov. 6 national
election.  State officials have agreed that failure to reply within 30
days to a letter telling a voter she’s in danger of being purged
as deceased will no longer be sufficient grounds for erasing
someone’s registration, plaintiffs’ lawyer David Richards said.  “I think the purging has stopped,” Richards said in a
telephone interview.  The four plaintiffs, who were told they would be dropped as
deceased, didn’t challenge removal of so-called strong matches
between election rosters and the national database, only weak
ones that lack a complete match between a voter’s full name,
birth date and nine-digit Social Security number.  They claimed the planned elimination of voter names
violated the federal Voting Rights Act, which requires the state
to get permission for changes in electoral procedures from the
U.S. Justice Department or a three-judge panel.  State Judge Scott H. Jenkins in Austin yesterday signed the
agreed-upon order ending the case and lifting a Sept. 20
temporary bar on the voter-roll purge imposed the same day the
four voters filed suit. Attorney General Greg Abbott had asked
for dismissal of the case or dissolution of the restraining
order. A hearing was scheduled for today.  Voter registrars in Dallas County and Harris County, which
includes Houston, had balked at completing the purge. Harris
County Voter Registrar Don Sumners said he was concerned the
state’s dead-voter list was inaccurate and that hundreds of
voters contacted his office to refute reports of their deaths
after getting notices their registrations would be canceled.  “Texas has long had in place statutes that mandate a
voter’s registration should be canceled by a county registrar
when it is determined that a voter is deceased,” Abbott said in
a Sept. 21 court filing. “This matter concerns the integrity of
voter registration in Texas,” he said.  “Each voter who receives such a notice is simply asked to
provide the relevant county registrar with information
demonstrating the voter remains eligible to vote,” Abbott said,
asking to have the suit dismissed.  In the event the judge disagreed, Abbott asked the judge to
dissolve the restraining order and allow county registrars to
continue investigating voters who are “weak” matches with the
U.S. Social Security Administration’s master death list.  “Today’s order is another step toward improving the
integrity of the election system,” Abbott said yesterday in a
statement. “The order means dead voters can and should be
deleted from the rolls and allows for the removal of dead voters
to continue.”  The case is Moore v. Morton, D-1-6N-12-002923, District
Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Kelley Shannon in Austin at 
 kshannon10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  