-- Exchanges Cancel Trades That Sent Kraft Foods Up 29%
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-10-03T21:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/exchanges-cancel-trades-that-sent-kraft-foods-up-29-.html
Erroneous trades that sent  Kraft
Foods Group Inc. (KRFT)  up as much as 29 percent in the first minute of
trading were canceled by exchanges, the latest incident to fuel
scrutiny of the electronic infrastructure of U.S. markets.  The  Nasdaq  Stock Market and NYSE Arca broke trades in Kraft
Foods Group Inc. at or above $47.82 executed in the first 60
seconds, the exchanges said in e-mailed statements. Kraft rose
as much as 29 percent to $58.54 by 9:31 a.m.  New York  time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock ended the
session down 1.2 percent at $44.87 as of 4 p.m.  “While it is difficult to say with any degree of
certainty, it seems that this might be the case of mishandling a
buy order through a ‘fat finger’ incorrect limit or using a far
too aggressive order type or algo,”  Mark Turner , head of U.S.
sales trading at New York-based Instinet Inc., which accounts
for almost 4 percent of daily U.S. equities volume, said in an
e-mail. “In either case, the exchanges handled the error in
accordance with their error guidelines.”  The Securities and Exchange Commission is studying ways to
prevent electronic mishaps after a software error on Aug. 1
caused  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  to lose $440 million, almost
bankrupting one of the largest U.S. market makers. Not every
firm has the same commitment to ensuring systems are sound and
regulators should review how often brokers evaluate their
programs, NYSE Euronext executive vice president Lou Pastina
said at an SEC roundtable yesterday.  168 Trades  Concern about electronic trading tactics has grown this
year following problems with Facebook Inc.’s initial public
offering and the cancellation of Bats Global Markets Inc.’s
debut after the company could not get the shares to start
trading on its own exchange.  The 168 trades at or above $47.82 that were later canceled
began 18 seconds into the session and lasted 15 seconds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Almost 29,000 shares of
Kraft were traded, the data show.  “Here we go again,”  Larry Peruzzi , senior equity trader
at Cabrera Capital Markets LLC in  Boston , wrote in an e-mail.
“Seems like another seam has been uncovered. Happy that Nasdaq
reacted so quickly. Unhappy that these issues happen so
frequently. Trades were canceled, but you have to feel some got
hurt.”  Kraft shares took another sudden swing at the close. After
trading at an average price of $45.88 from 3 to 3:58 p.m., the
stock slipped as 2,372 trades covering 3.5 million shares
occurred at prices of $45.40 or below in the closing minutes.
The stock reached a session low of $44.83 at 3:59 p.m.  Kraft declined to comment on the trades, spokeswoman Leslie
Sutton said in an e-mail.  Kraft Foods Group was listed on the Nasdaq this week after
Kraft Foods Inc. split its businesses into two companies.
 Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ) , the global snacks unit, has brands
such as Oreo cookies and Cadbury chocolate, while Kraft Foods
Group is a grocery producer focused exclusively in  North
America , selling brands such as Planters peanuts and Kraft
macaroni and cheese.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  