-- Maxcom, Megacable Gain on Foreign-Investment Cap Proposal
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-10-05T18:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/mexico-considers-lifting-caps-on-foreign-investment.html
(Corrects date of minister’s presentation in fourth
paragraph of story published Oct. 3.)  Maxcom Telecomunicaciones SAB and
Megacable Holdings SAB rose as outgoing President  Felipe
Calderon ’s administration assembles a proposal to lift caps on
foreign investment in some Mexican businesses.  Maxcom, the nation’s fifth-largest land-line phone carrier,
gained 6.3 percent to 3.56 pesos at 10:41 a.m. in Mexico City
after earlier reaching 3.59 pesos, the highest intraday price
since Feb. 22. Megacable, Mexico’s biggest cable company, rose
1.6 percent to 30.50 pesos, the highest since Feb. 15, 2011.  While the administration hasn’t confirmed which industries
the proposal will address, Mexico’s antitrust and
telecommunications regulators have both called for the
elimination of a 49 percent limit on foreign ownership of land-
line telecommunications companies to encourage competition. The
current  law  also includes a 25 percent cap on domestic airline
stakes and says broadcasting services must be exclusively under
Mexican control.  “In the coming weeks we’ll announce the type of
initiatives we’ll be promoting,” Deputy Economy Minister Jose Antonio Torre said, according to a transcript of a presentation
given Oct. 1. “It would be a bill that would reform the Foreign
Investment Law that would lift some caps in some sectors.” He
declined to name specific industries the proposal would target.  Airline Cap  The Economy Ministry favors increasing the airline
industry’s foreign investment cap to 49 percent, Torre said.  “It’s a sector that demands high investment in capital,”
he said. “Planes are a very significant investment, and we
think loosening this limitation that exists today in the law of
up to 25 percent is important.”  Grupo Aeromexico SAB (AEROMEX*) , the only publicly traded Mexican
airline, fell 0.6 percent to 19.87 pesos.  A press official in Calderon’s office who asked not to be
named because he wasn’t authorized to speak on the record
declined to comment.  Attempts in the Senate to lift the cap on foreign
investment in land-line phone companies have failed as recently
as last year because of disputes on whether to require investors
to come from countries with similarly open rules.  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , owner of Mexico’s largest land-line
phone network, slid 0.6 percent to 16.45 pesos. The second-
biggest carrier, Axtel SAB, rose 4 percent to 3.15 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in  Mexico  City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  