-- Fed Risks Credibility Loss With 2015 Rate Pledge, CFS Says
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-10-03T13:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/fed-risks-credibility-loss-with-2015-rate-pledge-cfs-says.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s promise to hold
borrowing costs at record lows into 2015 risks a loss of its
credibility and a downward spiral in financial markets,
according to the Center for Financial Stability.  Fed policy makers began a third round of debt purchases
last month and said it will probably hold the federal funds rate
close to zero “at least through mid-2015.” Since January, the
central bank had said the rate was likely to stay low at least
through late 2014.  “The Fed is essentially making a bet that its promise will
in fact keep long-term rates low for that period as well,” said
Lawrence Goodman, president of the CFS in New York, a  research
group  focused on global finance and markets, in an interview.
”If rates edge higher due to factors such as inflation or
credit issues, then the Fed will suffer a loss of its
reputational state and that could have complications all across
the yield curve. That can happen quickly and can unleash a
forceful slide in the market and could thrust the economy back
into recession.”  The Fed latest round of quantitative easing, known as QE,
involves buying $40 billion a month of mortgage-backed
securities. This will combine with the central bank’s purchases
of Treasuries as part of its maturity extension program, known
by traders as Operation Twist, which includes sales of short-
term debt. The Fed is seeking to lower debt yields and push
investors into higher-returning assets, in hopes to spur
economic growth and lower unemployment.  Markets Gain  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index has gained 0.73 percent
since the Fed’s announcement, and is up 17 percent this year.
Yields on benchmark  10-year notes  have declined 14 basis points
to 1.62 percent since Sept. 12, the day before the conclusion of
the Fed’s two-day meeting.  The FOMC also said in its policy statement on Sept. 13 that
“a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain
appropriate for a considerable time after the economic recovery
strengthens,” heightening speculation that debt purchases and
low rates will prove prolonged.  Policy makers have kept their  target rate  for overnight
loans between banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percentage point
since December 2008.  The Fed’s actions have driven bond market volatility to its
lowest levels since 2007, before the collapse of the subprime-
mortgage market triggered the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression.  Volatility Declines  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE Index, which measures
the outlook for the pace of debt price swings based on options,
is at 60.4, compared with an average of 106.43 since January
2007. The index touched 56.7 in May, just above a record low of
51.20 basis points was in May 2007.  “The Fed should now be making it resoundingly clear to
financial markets that it stands ready to stabilize the size of
its balance sheet and slowly and methodically reduce the
monetary base so rates move to more normalized levels over
time,” said Goodman, a former strategist at Bank of America
Corp. and a senior fellow at the U.S. Department of Treasury.
“The monetary transmission mechanism is seriously flawed. So
the Fed needs to find alternatives to printing money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 