-- Fibria Loser in Global Rally on Pulp Overstock: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-10-03T17:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/fibria-loser-in-global-rally-on-pulp-overstock-corporate-brazil.html
Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3) , the world’s
largest pulp producer, is forecast to post the only share drop
in the industry because it’s more exposed to an oversupply of
the commodity than any of its biggest competitors.  The stock will fall 10 percent in the next 12 months,
according to the average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sao Paulo-based  Klabin SA (KLBN4)  may gain 0.9 percent in the
period, the second-worst performance among the world’s top 25
pulp producers by market value. Shandong Huatai Paper Co.,
China’s largest newsprint maker, is forecast to rally 99
percent.  Fibria will face tougher competition as global capacity of
eucalyptus pulp, used to make paper, expands by as much as 27
percent in the next 18 months, said Kevin Cohen, an analyst at
Imperial Capital LLC. Fibria’s sales may increase 1.8 percent in
2013, compared with a growth rate of 3.5 percent for local
competitor Suzano Papel & Celulose SA and 15 percent for
Shandong Huatai, both of which get at least 55 percent of their
revenue from paper and cardboard rather than pulp.  There’s a “tidal wave of new capacity coming,” Cohen said
in a telephone interview yesterday from  New York . “That’s the
wall of worry that investors have to climb if you are out to
invest in the story,” he said, referring to Fibria.  ‘Pretty Bearish’  The outlook for pulp supply and prices may prompt Fibria,
which sells the material to consumer-products makers Kimberly-
Clark Corp. and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , to drop a plan to expand
its Tres Lagoas mill as the company seeks to limit investments
and sell assets to cut debt. Chief Executive Officer Marcello Castelli said in August that although a final decision about the
plant expansion hadn’t been made yet, the plan wouldn’t be
submitted to the company’s board this year.  “It’s positive to see the mill being canceled or
delayed,” Cohen said. “They are the lowest-cost producer in
the world, so if the lowest-cost producer in the world is
cutting back on a project, delaying it or canceling it, if they
are not moving forward with it, that’s pretty bearish.”  Fibria’s press office declined to comment.  Concern that  Brazil ’s BNDES state development bank,
Fibria’s biggest shareholder, may sell part of its stake after a
so-called lock-up period ends may also prevent Sao Paulo-based
Fibria from rallying along with rivals.  End of Lock-Up  Some analysts are predicting BNDES may reduce its 30.4
percent stake by as much as two-thirds to as low as 11 percent
when the lock-up ends on Oct. 29, said Stephen Atkinson, an
analyst with BMO Capital Markets. The bank bought its stake in
2009 as part of a deal in which Fibria, formerly known as
Votorantim Celulose & Papel SA, took over rival Aracruz Celulose
SA following $3 billion in derivative losses.  “The end of the lock-up could put some pressure on the
stock, a lot depending on the outlook for the pulp market,”
Atkinson said in telephone interview from  Montreal . “If you go
back in time, probably the most stupid thing Votorantim did was
to buy Aracruz. They overpaid for those assets and have been
struggling ever since.”  An official for BNDES, who asked not to be identified in
accordance with the bank’s policy, declined to comment on the
plans after the end of the lock-up.  Fibria, which has gained 32 percent this year, trades at
0.67 times its book value, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with a ratio of 0.38 for Suzano, whose shares have
tumbled 20 percent in  Sao Paulo . Pulp prices have gained 15
percent this year as paper makers rebuild stockpiles.
Inventories jumped to 38 days of supply in July, up from 34 days
at the end of last year, according to Helsinki-based FOEX
Indexes Ltd.  ‘Improbable’  While the possibility BNDES will sell its stake in the
company may hurt the stock’s performance in the short term, the
chances of a divestment are low, said Victor Penna, an analyst
at  Banco do Brasil SA. (BBAS3)   “It’s possible, but improbable,” Penna, who rates the
stock a buy, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “BNDES
typically holds long-term investments, and they have been
supporting the pulp sector for a long time.”  Fibria raised 1.44 billion reais ($711 million) in a share
sale this year and used the proceeds to cut debt. Pulp prices
are expected to fall to an average of $690 a ton next year from
$780 a ton now as new plants will add 4.3 million tons of
capacity, Penna said.  “Slowing demand in  Europe  could be partially offset by a
recovery in  China ,” Penna said. “Though it looks like
oversupply will end up tipping the scale.”  First Acquisition  The company agreed to buy a 6 percent stake of Wilmington,
Delaware-based Ensyn Corp., a producer of biofuel from wood, for
$20 million, Fibria’s first acquisition since 2009, the
pulpmaker said in a  statement  late yesterday.  The companies plan to form a venture in Brazil to produce
heating oil, fuels and other chemicals from chip woods,
according to the statement. Fibria has the option to raise its
stake to as much as 9 percent by investing an additional $10
million and expects the deal to be concluded by the end of this
month, the Brazilian company said.  Ensyn is owned by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Impax Asset
Management Ltd. and a unit of  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Fibria said in the
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in em São Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  