-- Fiscal-Cliff Agreement Won’t End Risk, Roubini Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-10-03T16:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/fiscal-cliff-agreement-won-t-end-risk-roubini-says-tom-keene.html
The  U.S. economy  will be vulnerable
to fiscal turmoil next year even if politicians reach an
agreement to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff, according to
 Nouriel Roubini , who won the nickname Dr. Doom for predicting
hard times before the financial crisis began in 2008.  An accord by lawmakers that avoids the worst of the
potential headwinds will probably still leave the economy open
to disruption, Roubini said in a television interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene, Ken Prewitt and Sara Eisen. Roubini is a  New York  University professor and chairman
of a consulting firm that bears his name.  The fiscal cliff refers to the $600 billion of tax
increases and spending cuts that will kick in automatically in
2013 unless Congress fails to break a partisan deadlock and
reach agreement on the nation’s budget deficit.  “Eventually, there will be an agreement. We are not going
to have a fiscal cliff,” Roubini said. The nation probably will
“have a bump, meaning a fiscal drag of only 1 percent, as they
are going to agree on some revenue increases and on some
spending cuts,” he said.  U.S. gross domestic product will expand 2.2 percent this
year and 2.1 percent in 2013, according to median forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg. The government may say Oct. 5 that the
 unemployment rate  rose to 8.2 percent, holding above 8 percent
for the 44th straight month in September, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Stall Speed’  If the economy continues to grow at about “only 1.5
percent and you have a fiscal bump of 1 percent of gross
domestic product, then growth next year could be as low as 0.5
percent,” Roubini said. “Given how slow we are growing, even a
fiscal bump, let alone a fiscal cliff, pushes us close to stall
speed.”  The co-founder and chairman of Roubini Global Economics LLC
predicted the U.S. housing bubble before the market peaked in
2006, while failing to forecast a rebound in global stocks in
2009.  President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt
Romney  debate economic policy in Denver today. Whoever wins the
presidency will contend with a budget on a trajectory dubbed
unsustainable by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a
Responsible  Federal Budget , said in an interview last week
there’s growing support on Capitol Hill for tackling the debt in
a constructive manner. Washington-based MacGuineas said she’s
hopeful a “grand bargain” to put the government’s finances on
a sounder footing may be possible between a newly elected
president and Congress, helped along by the need to deal with
the fiscal cliff.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  