-- Fortune Society Creates Drama at Sing Sing Prison
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-10-03T16:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/fortune-society-creates-drama-at-sing-sing-prison.html
On his 56th birthday last week, Rory
Anderson climbed into a white van in Queens,  New York , bound for
Sing Sing Correctional Facility, a maximum-security prison an
hour north of the city where he had once been confined for 16
years.  “I never thought I’d spend another birthday at Sing
Sing,” he said.  He and three other men and one woman, all former inmates,
were to perform “The Castle,” an autobiographical recounting
of horrific childhoods, drug abuse, crime, arrests, prison and
eventually going straight, getting jobs and paying taxes.  David Rothenberg, a onetime Broadway press agent for the
likes of  Elizabeth Taylor ,  Richard Burton  and Dudley Moore,
conceived of the show in 2007. That was 40 years after he
founded the nonprofit  Fortune Society , which has helped Anderson
and thousands of others released from prison secure jobs and
housing and otherwise adapt to life on the outside.  Among Fortune’s backers are  George Soros ’s  Open Society
Foundations , which made a $300,000 two-year grant in 2011.  As the van pulled away from Fortune’s Long Island City
headquarters, Rothenberg, 79, was ambivalent about the trip.
“It’s emotionally draining, especially when you run into people
you know and they’re stuck there,” he said. “But I wouldn’t
forgo it.”  Murder Conviction  “The Castle” is named for a 62-bed  residence  Fortune has
on Manhattan’s Upper West Side, where Anderson stayed after a
total of 25 years in prison. He explains in the show that he was
convicted of murder in his early 20s, following a shootout over
a soured drug deal.  Although sturdily built, he comes off as gentler than any
number of  Manhattan  professionals.  “The public really doesn’t believe people can change their
lives,” Rothenberg said, reserving special scorn for the media
and entertainment industry. “I think crime sells and hope
doesn’t. You’ll see more crime on television tonight than you’ll
see on the streets of New York.”  Victor Rojas, another cast member and Castle alumnus, said
he doesn’t like returning to prison. “But it’s important to
tell the men there’s something else to what they’ve normally
done.”  All of the cast work at the Fortune Society. Rothenberg
said some worked elsewhere and returned. Other Fortune
beneficiaries are in other fields, many thriving. But the
nonprofit, which employs 180, is a key source of jobs.  “Nobody is going to hire you if you have 67 arrests and 16
years in prison, no matter how charming you seem to be,”
Rothenberg said.  ‘Same Thing’  In a new memoir, “Fortune in My Eyes,” Rothenberg
recalled producing John Herbert’s prison play, “Fortune and
Men’s Eyes,” in 1967. For research, Rothenberg and the actors
visited the Rikers Island jail complex.  “It was a shocker,” he wrote. They saw “young men being
herded about or sitting morosely in dayrooms or dormitories.”  “It’s the same thing, every day all day,” said Anderson.  JoAnne Page, Fortune’s chief executive and the van’s
driver, calls it death by boredom. “With time on the inside
you’re always trying to make it go away,” said Page, a Yale-
educated lawyer. “But on the outside there’s never enough time.
It’s an enormous change.”  Sing Sing occupies 55 acres, with an awe-inspiring view of
the  Hudson River . Passing below the manned watchtower, we
entered a vestibule, emptied our pockets, passed through a metal
detector, and had a number imprinted on our wrists in invisible
ink. The guards were all business.  “They are not burdened with an abundance of charm, are
they?” Rothenberg whispered.  ‘Too Familiar’  Thomas Jones, a “Castle” cast member who, like Anderson,
spent time in solitary confinement, was sweating. He sat in a
chair and Page massaged his shoulders.  “It’s anxiety, returning to prison,” he said. “Too
familiar, the memories.”  The group was led into an empty auditorium with hard,
plastic seats. A sign on the wall read, “Inmates are to remain
seated until directed by a security staff member. Rule:
109:12.” The performance wouldn’t start for an hour.  Robert Rose was preparing to operate the sound board. An
articulate 40-year-old in his 18th year in prison, he said he
works fulltime in the law library. He earns 13 cents an hour.
Like all inmates, he lacks e-mail or Internet access.  Missing Friends  He praised programs such as the Fortune Society’s. He has
observed many released inmates soon return.  “After being taken care of all these years, it’s not
easy,” he said of the transition. “So much has changed over
the years. When you walk out you need help. A lot of your
friends are no longer there.”  The audience entered in regulation green pants and shirts
of various colors. The performance began, with the cast on
stools. The prisoners sat rapt.  In a Q&A they asked about Fortune Society’s programs. When
it was over they stood and applauded eagerly. “It was cool,” 
Rose said. “The guys liked it.”  To order “Fortune in My Eyes” (Applause Books) in  North
America , click  here . “The Castle” will be performed on Oct. 11
at the JCC in Manhattan, 334 Amsterdam Ave. Information: +1-646-
505-4444;
 http://www.jccmanhattan.org/performances?page=programs .  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining,  Martin
Gayford  on art.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 