-- Foster’s Firm to Design New Tower on NYC’s Park Avenue
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-10-03T16:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/foster-s-firm-to-design-new-tower-on-nyc-s-park-avenue.html
Foster + Partners, the architectural
firm run by Norman Foster, was chosen to design the first full-
block office tower on  Manhattan ’s Park Avenue to be built in
almost 50 years, the developers said today.  The London-based firm won the competition over finalists
Richard Rogers, Rem Koolhaas and Zaha Hadid, Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and L&L Holding Co. said today in an e-mailed
statement. The partners plan a 650,000-square-foot (60,000-
square-meter) tower at 425 Park Ave., diagonally across East
56th Street from where CIM Group and Harry Macklowe plan to
build New York’s tallest residential tower.  Foster, a Pritzker Prize winner in 2009, said he was
inspired by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, Gordon Bunshaft and Philip Johnson, all of whom designed towers in the neighborhood in the
mid-20th century.  “I am delighted to have this very special opportunity to
design a contemporary tower to stand alongside them,” he said
in the statement.  The new building would replace a 32-story, 552,000-square-
foot tower completed in 1957. The city has been seeking to
rezone Park Avenue’s office corridor along with other sections
of east Midtown to allow for a new generation of skyscrapers to
compete with  London  and Hong Kong.  The developers released a rendering of a three-tiered
glass-and-steel tower that tapers as it rises. The property
includes a landscaped terrace with views of Central Park, about
six blocks to the northwest, according to the plans.  London’s Gherkin  The tower would be 687 feet (209 meters) tall, or about 41
stories, said  Bud Perrone , a spokesman for the developers. The
number of floors may change, he said.  Foster’s credits include the skyscraper known as Gherkin
because of its resemblance to the vegetable, home to Swiss
Reinsurance Co.’s London offices. He also designed New York’s
Hearst Tower on Eighth Avenue and a terminal at Beijing Airport,
the world’s biggest building.  The site for the new tower is in Manhattan’s Plaza
District, near the Plaza Hotel on Central Park South, where
office availability hit a two-year high in August as financial
firms cut back and tenants sought space in trendier
neighborhoods to the south.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  