-- Foxconn Riot Shows Why Company Towns Often Grow Violent
-- B y   H a r d y   G r e e n
-- 2012-10-03T15:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/foxconn-riot-shows-why-company-towns-often-grow-violent.html
Labor unrest appears to be on the
rise in  China . Last month, as many as 2,000 workers skirmished
with hundreds of police and security guards on the campus of the
Taiwanese company Foxconn Technology Group. This 21st-century
version of a company town within the industrial city of Taiyuan
houses 79,000 workers who live in company-owned dorms, eat in
company-owned cafeterias and put in long days on assembly lines.  Although it isn’t yet clear exactly how the riot started,
resentment over poor conditions and aggressive guards almost
certainly played a role. Such complaints are widespread in
China’s company towns. They have an even longer history in the
U.S., where such towns proliferated through the 19th and early
20th centuries.  These have generally fallen into two categories:
paternalistic industrial Edens and exploitative shantytowns.
Neither has been immune to violent protest.  Consider the experience of Pullman,  Illinois , a model
community erected for the production of railroad sleeping cars
by the Pullman Palace Car Co. in the 1880s. Company founder
George Pullman declared the site, some 14 miles outside of
 Chicago , to be an area free of “all baneful influences.” The
complex included a 30-acre office-and-manufacturing works, a
spectacular arcade for retailers, a library, a hotel and block
upon block of row houses and tenements. As in most such company-
owned burgs, government was firmly in the hands of the company.  Strike, Boycott  Then in 1893, with the company’s earnings at a record $11
million, the U.S. entered an economic depression. Wage
reductions and layoffs followed, but the company refused to
lower workers’ rents, which were deducted from paychecks.
Pullman workers formed a union, went on strike and began a
boycott, which went viral. Soon, 50,000 railroad workers across
the country were at war with the company, sabotaging railroad
tracks and attacking trains. In time, federal troops broke the
strike, but the model town of Pullman was indelibly associated
with industrial strife and became a symbol of failed
paternalism. By the turn of the century, the town had entered an
era of decline.  In the 1910s, plumbing-fixture maker Kohler Co. embarked on
a similar experiment, constructing the settlement of Kohler
Village on the edge of Sheboygan,  Wisconsin . By the 1930s, the
company’s works sprawled over 191 acres, complemented by 450
free-standing houses, a dorm and eating hall for unmarried
employees, good schools, and a public auditorium. Workers were
allowed to buy their homes, and Kohler supplemented its above-
average wages with such perks as group life insurance and
pensions.  But the Great Depression brought layoffs, reduced hours and
wage garnishment that went to pay mortgages held by the Kohler
Building & Loan Association. In 1934, striking workers clashed
with village deputies armed with machine guns, tear gas and
clubs. In the altercation, 49 strikers were wounded, two
fatally. The conflict would eventually become one of the
country’s longest-running labor disputes. For a time, the model
village became synonymous with class warfare, marked by
“needless and ruthless killing,” in the words of one federal
mediator.  Appalachia’s sulfurous coal-company towns witnessed even
greater violence. In 1921, thousands of union miners faced off
against a 2,000-strong army of deputies and mine guards in what
became known as the Battle of Blair Mountain; about 100 died. In
the 1930s, Harlan County,  Kentucky , saw an antiunion reign of
terror marked by house bombings, shootings and mass arrests.  Right Combination  In all such cases, grievances over work and  living
conditions  formed a combustible mix. But in a handful of
locations (though obviously not in Kohler Village), managers
found relief in a popular American tradition: home ownership and
self government.  During the 1890s, the small Apollo Iron & Steel Co. erected
its own model town, called Vandergrift,  Pennsylvania , some 30
miles northeast of Pittsburgh. As in other industrial utopias,
there were amenities, including modern sanitation, parkland and
donated space for churches. Unlike most company towns, homes
were privately owned by workers, who were carefully screened.
Perhaps more important, unlike in Kohler Village, the residents
were self-governing, electing a town council composed of skilled
workers from the mill.  The combination seemed to work for management: A 1901
strike called by the Amalgamated Association of Iron and Steel
Workers fizzled in Vandergrift, where a union observer reported
the workers to be “bound up by their property interests.” The
trade journal Iron Age called the workers’ indifference to the
strike “a crowning vindication” of the company’s approach to
community and labor relations.  In China, home-ownership and self-government certainly
don’t appear to be on the agenda. But as labor relations there
grow more volatile, perhaps the Communist elite should begin
pondering some subsidy for private housing as a means toward
social peace.  (Hardy Green is the author of “The Company Town: The
Industrial Edens and Satanic Mills That Shaped the American
Economy.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this article: Hardy Green at
 hardygreen1@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 