-- Foxconn, GCL-Poly to Build, Operate Solar Power Plant in China
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-10-03T16:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/foxconn-gcl-poly-to-build-operate-china-solar-power-plant-1-.html
Foxconn Technology Group and  GCL-Poly
Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)  will build and jointly operate a solar-
power plant in China’s Shanxi province.  The companies will share revenue from selling electricity
to the government utility at the 310-megawatt plant which will
use GCL’s solar cells to be assembled by Foxconn, Shu Hua,
executive president of Hong Kong-listed GCL told  Bloomberg News 
yesterday. He declined to give the investment amount or revenue
split for the facility, which will be fully operational during
the first half of next year.  Total budget for the plant, in Shanxi’s Datong region, was
initially based on a cost of 10  yuan  ($1.58) per watt, which has
since dropped to about 9 yuan, Shu said. The venture helps
Foxconn founder Terry Gou move toward his goal of boosting
investment in alternative energy, and GCL-Poly secures a
customer amid declining prices and its first loss since 2009.  The plant will be in Datong, about 200 kilometers from
Taiyuan, where Foxconn operates a factory, Shu said. Simon Hsing, a spokesman for Foxconn flagship Hon Hai Precision
Industry Co., didn’t immediately answer calls to his mobile
phone yesterday.  GCL-Poly, the biggest maker of polysilicon and solar
wafers, secured approval from  China ’s National Energy
Administration to start work on 340 megawatts of solar projects
in the northern province of Shanxi, it said in August.  Those projects include 310 megawatts of ground-mounted
solar farms and 30 megawatts of roof-top installations in
Datong, it said at the time, without disclosing financial terms.  GCL-Poly reported a first-half net loss of HK$330 million,
its first loss since the second half of 2009, as  Europe ’s
financial crisis curbed the solar-energy business.  The Hong-Kong-based company also has an agreement with
China Merchants New Energy Group to jointly develop at least 973
megawatts of solar plants in China in the next three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  