-- Gasoline Poised to Fall as Refineries Returning: Energy Markets
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J   P o w e l l
-- 2012-10-03T19:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/gasoline-poised-to-fall-as-refineries-returning-energy-markets.html
U.S. gasoline prices at the pump are
poised to drop by year end, if history is any guide, as
refineries resume production,  Europe  exports more fuel to the
East Coast and Americans drive less.  Prices at service stations may fall about 6.3 percent to
$3.54 a gallon, according to eight years of seasonal data
compiled by Bloomberg. Gasoline deliveries to the U.S. from
Europe may rise 35 percent, according to the median of eight
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Demand has declined an
average of 3.6 percent from July through December during the
past five years, Energy Department data show.  While prices usually drop during the third quarter, this
year is different because plants on the East Coast and in the
Virgin Islands were permanently shut, reducing supply. Pump
prices rose as high as $3.871 a gallon last month, a record for
the period, AAA data compiled by Bloomberg show, feeding the
perception that President  Barack Obama  won’t do as well as
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  in lowering prices, according
to a Bloomberg poll.  “The market is expecting the return of supply as we go
through the course of October and the refineries in Europe get
through their maintenance period,”  Andy Lipow , president of
Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston, said by phone. “Between
now and the election, prices will fall moderately, 10 to 15
cents a gallon, but they won’t have much of an impact on the
election.”  Irving Blast  Production is so constrained that any surprise can lead to
magnified market moves. An explosion at Irving Oil Corp.’s  plant 
in Saint John,  New Brunswick , on Sept. 26 that did no damage to
the main part of the refinery, sent gasoline up 2.3 percent in
10 minutes on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Gasoline for October delivery surged 19.77 cents, or 6.3
percent, to $3.342 a gallon Sept. 28, its last day of trading,
capping a 23 percent gain since June, the largest third-quarter
increase since 2005 when Hurricanes Katrina and Rita shut almost
30 percent of U.S. refining capacity. The November contract sank
6.97 cents, or 2.4 percent, to settle at $2.7995 today.  Production and supply may rise as retail outlets switch to
winter-grade fuel, which doesn’t have to meet as stringent
emissions specifications and can be made from a wider variety of
blendstocks, such as butane. Gasoline  output  in the U.S. has
risen an average of 3.6 percent in the fourth quarter during the
past five years.  October ‘Relief’  “Towards October we should start to see some relief at the
pump based on the rollover to the winter grade,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania . Retail prices could fall 20 cents to between $3.50
and $3.60 a gallon, Schork said.  Prices ended last year at $3.278 a gallon, according to
Heathrow, Florida-based AAA, the nation’s largest motoring
organization  In a Bloomberg National Poll of 1,007 respondents conducted
Sept. 21-24, 46 percent said Romney would do a better job
controlling gasoline prices, compared with 39 percent for Obama.  Falling prices may remove gasoline as an issue for voters
in the presidential election, said  Andrew Lebow , senior vice
president for energy at Jefferies Bache LLC in  New York .  “Are they going to make their decision based on gasoline
prices?” said Lebow. “Not at $3.70 or $3.80. Maybe if they’re
above $4, they might be another factor to sway undecided
voters.”  Scarce Supply  Prices rose as the largest refineries in  Canada  and Europe
underwent maintenance, along with another plant in Wales that
ships gasoline to the U.S. In the Mid-Atlantic area, which
includes New York Harbor, the delivery point for Nymex futures,
 inventories  are at the lowest point since the Energy Department
began releasing weekly data in 1990.  Traders were so eager to get the scarce supply that they
pushed the October contract to 42.19 cents above November’s on
Sept. 28. The so-called backwardation, or premium of the front
contract to the next one, was the highest since gasoline began
trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange in 1986.  Companies booked 16 tankers for the two weeks to Oct. 10,
and 11 more probably will be hired, according to the median
estimate in a survey of eight shipbrokers and traders Sept. 26.
That’s seven vessels more than the previous week’s total and the
most shipments since Sept. 12, prior surveys showed.  Energy Independence  While Americans purchased 3.8 percent less gasoline this
year and the U.S. met 81 percent of its energy needs in 2011,
the most since 1992, refinery closures have left East Coast
stockpiles of motor fuel at a four-year low, Energy Department
data shows today.  “The market was already on edge because of tight supply,
but some wholesalers put off buying hoping supplies would
appear,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price
Futures Group in  Chicago .  New York Harbor was left more susceptible to shortages
after Hovensa LLC shut its St. Croix  refinery  in February. The
plant supplied 95,000 barrels a day of gasoline to the East
Coast in 2011, 3 percent of consumption.  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  shut the
 Marcus Hook , Pennsylvania, facility in December. Delta Air Lines
Inc. expects to return the Trainer plant to full production this
week, a year after it was idled by ConocoPhillips.  “The shutdown of Hovensa, Marcus Hook and Trainer have led
to seasonally higher prices, which longer term will be mitigated
by higher product imports and higher product pipeline transfers
from the Midwest and Gulf Coasts,” said  Hamza Khan , an analyst
at Schork Group.  Plant Shutdowns  Irving is performing seasonal work on sections of the
298,800-barrel-a-day Saint John plant, which sends more than
half of its fuel output to the northeast U.S.  Across the Atlantic,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  has shut parts
of the Pernis  refinery  in the Netherlands for maintenance.
Pernis can process 400,000 barrels a day, the most in Europe.
Valero Energy Corp. is closing all the main production units at
its 220,000-barrel-a-day Pembroke  refinery  in Wales while the
only crude unit undergoes an eight-week turnaround.  Gasoline stockpiles in independent storage in Amsterdam-
Rotterdam-Antwerp, Europe’s oil-trading hub, dropped to the
lowest level in almost a year, data from PJK International BV
show. Inventories fell 14 percent to 558,000 metric tons in the
week to Sept. 27, the least since Oct. 6.  Amuay Refinery  Petroleos de Venezuela SA’s 645,000-barrel-a-day Amuay
refinery, the biggest in the Western Hemisphere, is running
below capacity after an Aug. 24 explosion, reducing supply in
the Caribbean and  South America  and increasing demand for
cargoes from Europe and the U.S. Gulf.  Traders have been betting on scarce supplies for months.
Net-long  positions  held by  hedge funds  and other large
speculators increased 62 percent to 80,858 contracts on Sept. 25
from July 17, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  Money managers have held an average long position this year
of 74,087 contracts, up from an average of 41,715 during the
same period in the previous five years.  “The net length held by money managers normally declines
as summer driving season ends,” Khan said.  Consumption of gasoline in the week ended Sept. 28 was 8.72
million barrels a day, 1.1 percent below last year, according to
MasterCard’s SpendingPulse report.  The premium of gasoline over West Texas Intermediate crude
oil, or the  crack spread , which gives an indication of the
profit refiners may earn from making fuel, was $30.45 a barrel
at the end of September, more than three times the $8.51 average
of the past five years, encouraging refiners to boost output.
The spread was $29.44 a barrel today.  “When refineries restart those units, they’re going to run
quite hard because U.S. margins are some of the highest since
2008,” said Amrita Sen, chief oil market strategist at Energy
Aspects Ltd., a research consultant in  London . “You’re going to
continue to see strength in prices the next couple of weeks as
refineries are still out, but early November onwards you can
expect them to moderate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  