-- Gasoline Sinks to 10-Week Low on European Debt Crisis
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-10-03T19:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/gasoline-sinks-to-10-week-low-on-european-debt-crisis.html
Gasoline sank to the lowest level in
10 weeks as declines in  Europe ’s services and manufacturing
sectors highlighted the toll the sovereign debt crisis has
wrought on the region’s economy.  Futures slid 2.4 percent as a composite index based on a
survey of  manufacturing and services  purchasing managers fell to
46.1 from 46.3 in August, London-based Markit Economics said
today. The Energy Department reported that gasoline demand fell
last week and refinery rates increased.  “The oil market is under pressure due to continued concern
about the European sovereign debt crisis,” said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Gasoline for November delivery fell 6.97 cents to $2.7995 a
gallon on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest
settlement since July 25.  China ’s services industry grew the least in more than a
year. The  purchasing managers’ index  fell to 53.7 in September
from 56.3 in August, the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in Beijing today.
Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  “The market still has to overcome weakness we’re seeing in
China and the concerns about Spain asking for a handout,” said
Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in
 Chicago .  Demand, Imports  Gasoline demand fell last week, imports rose and refinery
output increased, leading to speculation that stockpiles will
expand as plants return from maintenance and unplanned repairs.
Supply may also grow as pumps switch over to winter grade fuel,
which can be produced from more widely available components.  “Turnarounds are going to end, you have the switchover to
winter grade, and demand is not particularly good,” said David Pursell, a managing director at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. LLC
in Houston.  Delta Airlines Inc. said today that the 185,000-barrel-a-
day Trainer plant in  Pennsylvania , idled a year ago by former
owner ConocoPhillips, will be at full rates this week. That
refinery supplies the East Coast, which includes New York
Harbor, the delivery point for Nymex futures.  Wholesale gasoline  demand  slipped 1.6 percent to 8.63
million barrels a day, and over the past four weeks was 2.5
percent below a year earlier.  Gasoline output  rose 2 percent to 9.11 million barrels a
day. Imports into the East Coast rose 15 percent to 542,000
barrels a day, after falling the prior week to the lowest
seasonal level in department data going back to 2004.  More Supplies  “The bearishness is probably from stronger refinery runs
because the fundamentals in today’s report aren’t particularly
bearish,” said  Sander Cohan , a global transportation fuels
analyst and principal with Energy Security Analysis Inc. in
Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “There’s more supplies coming down
the pike, and you do have a strong crack spread” to attract
more production.  Stockpiles in the mid-Atlantic region, including New York,
fell 5.1 percent last week to 20.4 million barrels, the lowest
level in weekly data going back to 1990.  The premium of gasoline over West Texas Intermediate crude
oil, or the crack spread, which gives an indication of the
profit refiners may earn from making fuel, reached $30.45 a
barrel at the end of September, more than three times the $8.51
average of the past five years, encouraging refiners to boost
output.  The spread increased 82 cents today to $29.44 a barrel.  November-delivery heating oil fell 5.91 cents, or 1.9
percent, to settle at $3.0664 a gallon on the exchange.  Inventories of  distillates , which include heating oil and
diesel, fell 3.69 million barrels to 124.1 million, the lowest
level in eight weeks and 21 percent below a year earlier. Demand
jumped 10 percent to 4.09 million barrels a day, the highest
level since December.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.2
cent to $3.782 a gallon yesterday, AAA data show. It was the
first increase in eight days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  