-- GE Sees Gas Turbine Sales Gain Amid Saudis’ Solar Shift
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-10-03T15:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/ge-sees-gas-turbine-sales-gain-amid-saudis-solar-shift.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  predicts demand
for its gas turbines will increase in  Saudi Arabia , even with
the kingdom working to supply a third of power needs from solar
energy within the next two decades.  Saudi Arabia already has 500 installed gas turbines from GE
that generate about half its electricity, and the Middle Eastern
country plans to more than double its power capacity by 2030 to
meet utility-demand growth of about 8 percent a year.  “In the short- to medium-term, it’s still a lot of thermal
power, so we will support that just like we have been, both by
providing advanced technology and servicing it locally,”  Steve Bolze , head of GE Power & Water, said in an Oct. 1 interview in
Dammam.  The company announced an order for eight gas-turbine
generators to expand a power plant in  Riyadh  the day before, as
Saudi Arabia adds 33,000 megawatts of generation capacity in the
next eight years alone.  GE, which draws about half of its approximately $10 billion
a year in Middle Eastern sales from energy, expects to benefit
from climbing solar demand in that period, too.  Saudi Arabia’s central government, seeking to curb crude
oil use internally to preserve more of the fuel for export, is
seeking $109 billion of investment to build a solar industry.  The target is almost as much as the $136 billion invested
worldwide in solar energy last year, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. That may boost sales of concentrated solar
panels, “which are really the ones that get a lot of attention
from our customer base in Saudi Arabia,” Bolze said.  Renewable Energy  Talks are under way with Saudi customers about developing
other  renewable-energy  resources as well, Bolze said. GE said in
June 2011 that it expected to double energy revenue from Saudi
Arabia in five years by increasing sales of gas turbines, while
helping the country curb the amount of oil needed locally to
produce electricity.  Renewables are the second-largest business at  GE Energy ,
and gas turbines are the biggest. The Fairfield, Connecticut-
based company introduced a new line of gas-powered turbines in
September that are designed to run alongside renewable-energy
installations, powering up when the sun isn’t shining or the
wind isn’t blowing.  Saudi Electricity Co. (SECO)  is one of the first clients for the
new technology, Bolze said. The push to develop renewables would
help curb the kingdom’s use of heavy  fuel oil , which was about
65 percent of that of the U.S. this year and 41 percent of that
of  China , according to government figures on the  Joint
Organisations Data Initiative  website.  Saudi Arabia may need to import oil by 2030 if the
country’s domestic crude use continues to outpace gains in
production, New York-based Citigroup said in a September report.
The kingdom depends on oil for 86 percent of its annual revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  