-- Two of Gecina’s Biggest Investors Seek Creditor Protection
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-10-03T16:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/gecina-holding-firms-of-rivero-soler-seek-creditor-protection.html
Investment companies controlling 31
percent of the shares of  Gecina SA (GFC) , Paris’s largest publicly
traded office landlord, filed for creditor protection in  Spain .
Gecina shares fell as much as 6 percent in Paris.  Alteco Gestion & Promocio de Marcas SL, owned by former
Gecina Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Joaquin Rivero,
sought protection from creditors on Sept. 25 and the case will
be heard by a Madrid mercantile court, a court official said. A
petition filed the same day by MAG Import SL, owned by Victoria Soler and her husband, will be overseen by a separate mercantile
court in the Spanish capital, said the official.  Rivero and the Soler family are two of Gecina’s three
largest shareholders, with a 16 percent stake and a 15 percent
stake in the Paris-based company, respectively. They confirmed
the filings in a joint statement e-mailed today, adding that the
filing was triggered by one lender in its group of banks
blocking a loan refinancing.  The shares were collateral for 2.16 billion euros ($2.8
billion) of loans provided by 13 European banks, 25 percent of
which have been paid back, Rivero and the Soler family said in
the statement. Gecina said in a statement that its board is
reviewing the matter.  As the largest lender in the bank syndicate, Natixis SA,
the investment-banking unit of Groupe BPCE, led the banks’
negotiations. Natixis’s exposure is “largely covered,” Paris-
based spokeswoman Corinne Lavaud said by telephone, declining to
be more specific.  Gecina fell 3.73 euros, or 4.6 percent, to 76.98 euros in
Paris, lowering the company’s market value to about 4.8 billion
euros.  Shares Frozen  Rivero’s shares are frozen pending an investigation started
in April 2009 by French magistrate Renaud van Ruymbeke into
allegations including the misuse of Gecina’s assets, according
to two people familiar with the matter who declined to be
identified because the information is private.  Olivier Metzner , Rivero’s lawyer in Paris, didn’t return a
telephone call seeking comment.  Rivero resigned from Gecina’s board in March. He also
stepped down as chairman in February 2010 after shareholders
opposed Gecina’s purchase of a 49 percent stake in Madrid office
company Bami, owned by him and the Soler family, for 107.8
million euros. The transaction triggered a complaint by minority
shareholders that led to the French magistrate’s investigation.  Gecina made a 9.4 million-euro provision in its 2011
accounts to cover additional loan guarantees for Bami that
Rivero had put in place, Gecina Chief Executive Officer Bernard Michel said in an interview with French financial daily  Les
Echos . Previously, Rivero didn’t disclose other loan guarantees
Gecina made to Bami.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen in London at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  