-- Libya Attack Probe Unfolds as U.S. Politicians Pin Blame
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2012-10-03T05:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/libya-attack-probe-unfolds-as-u-s-politicians-pin-blame.html
The U.S. ambassador to Libya died in
a smoke-filled tomb while his colleagues escaped the American
diplomatic post in Benghazi when it was attacked by Islamist
gunmen, according to a reconstruction of his final hours.  On that, and little else, there is widespread agreement.  At home, politicians are dueling over who is to blame for
the deaths of Chris Stevens and three other Americans. With the
election 34 days away, Republicans are faulting President  Barack Obama ’s administration over its security preparations and its
reaction to the attack, seeking to reverse their presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney ’s deficit in national polls.  “Their response was slow, it was confused, it was
inconsistent,” Republican vice presidential candidate Paul Ryan
said Sept. 30 on “Fox News Sunday.” “It is part of a bigger
picture of the fact that the Obama foreign policy is unraveling
literally before our eyes on our TV screens.”  Two Republican lawmakers said yesterday that U.S. officials
in Libya sought more security in Benghazi before the attacks and
were spurned by counterparts in  Washington . House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa of  California 
and Representative  Jason Chaffetz  of  Utah  wrote to Secretary of
State Hillary Clinton saying their information came from
“multiple U.S. federal government officials” they didn’t name.  State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland declined to
discuss the issues raised by the letter, which she said will be
reviewed by an accountability review board led by former senior
U.S. diplomat Thomas Pickering, as well as by Congress. The
U.S., she said yesterday, is still working with the information
at hand, which another State Department official with knowledge
of the incident called incomplete at best.  Revised Account  Much about the Sept. 11 attack remains unknown, including
why some Libyan agents of the Central Intelligence Agency were
unable to reach their American contacts that night, said two
U.S. officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity to
discuss classified information. While intelligence officials
probe that question, a team from the U.S. Federal Bureau of
Investigation is preparing to investigate the jumble of events.  The Obama administration initially called the assault a
spontaneous protest that turned violent, then later revised its
account to characterize the incident as a terrorist act
organized by extremists with possible ties to al-Qaeda’s North
African affiliate.  In interviews, Libyan police and local residents, some of
whom witnessed the attack, described a series of ominous signals
in the days and months beforehand, chaos during the assault, and
a veteran envoy who perished while others were rescued.  ‘Americans’ Fault’  Libyan police who arrived to evacuate Americans soon after
the attack began on the night of Sept. 11 weren’t told that
Ambassador Stevens was missing or injured, Fawzi Younis Qaddafi,
head of the Special Security Committee in Benghazi, Libya’s
national gendarmerie, said in an interview. With looters
entering the compound, Qaddafi decided to help the U.S. staff
leave and abandon the compound, he said.  “We didn’t know the ambassador was there,” he said. “It
was the Americans’ fault.”  Home video recorded by an unknown person and posted on the
Internet shows young Libyan men pulling Stevens, his white shirt
over his shoulders, through the open window of his bedroom into
the yard.  Stevens was brought to the city’s largest hospital,
Benghazi Medical Center, in a private car driven by unknown
Libyan civilians some time after 1 a.m. on Sept. 12, hospital
director Dr. Fathi al Jehani said in an interview. He was dead.  Dangerous Place  Before the attack, Benghazi was well known as a dangerous
place for U.S. and Western citizens, and the two U.S. officials
said intelligence had warned that an Islamic extremist group
posed a threat to Americans in the city.  Between February and June, a series of attacks took place,
beginning with the desecration of 200 British and Commonwealth
 World War II-era  graves in the city. They escalated to bomb
attacks against the United Nations head of mission in April, the
International Committee of the Red Cross office in May and the
U.S. consulate in June.  Later that month, a rocket hit an armored jeep in a convoy
carrying Dominic Asquith, the British ambassador to Libya, and
injured two of his bodyguards. While the British and the Red
Cross subsequently left the city, the U.S. stayed on.  Even after those attacks, the U.S. consulate remained less
fortified than the abandoned British facility. While the U.S.
building had barbed wire at the front, parts of its side and
rear walls were unprotected.  ‘Climbed In’  Ahmed Busheri, a brother of the consulate’s landlord,
showed a reporter a stretch of gray cinder-block wall about
eight feet (2.4 meters) high. The attackers “climbed in,” he
said. “It is not difficult.”  The U.K. consulate, visible across the fields from the U.S.
building, has thicker walls approximately 15 feet (4.6 meters)
high and is buttressed by cages containing sandbags.  While the Libyan police didn’t know Stevens was in the
city, others in Benghazi did.  Jehani was due to meet the ambassador and two Boston
doctors on Sept. 12 to discuss collaboration between his
facility and  Harvard Medical School . Hana El Gallal, a local
activist and former education minister in Libya’s transitional
government, said she and members of other human rights groups
were to meet Stevens at 3:30 p.m. the same day.  The visit coincided with rising tension across the Muslim
world. On the morning of Sept. 11, crowds in  Egypt  angered by
the release in the U.S. of an amateur video clip ridiculing the
Prophet Muhammad, scaled the walls of the U.S. Embassy in Cairo
and burned the American flag.  Quiet Day  It’s not known whether news of the events in Egypt was
conveyed to the U.S. diplomats in Benghazi, or if security was
bolstered in light of the unrest in other countries.  Even so, the day was quiet in Benghazi. Groups of British
and Turkish diplomats spent time at the U.S. diplomatic compound
before flying to Tripoli, the Libyan capital, in the evening.  The walled compound includes a villa and four other
buildings in Fawayhat, a suburb four miles (6.4 kilometers)
south of the city center in a district of open fields and
compounds owned by wealthy Benghazians.  Gunfire erupted shortly before 10 p.m., according to a
Libyan-American witness who was among the patrons at the popular
Venezia restaurant across the street from the compound’s rear
entrance. He asked to not be named for fear of reprisals.  The witness said he watched a group of eight to 12 men
armed with automatic weapons and a rocket launcher gather at the
rear gate, displaying the black flag of Ansar al-Sharia, a
Benghazi Islamist militia.  ‘Beards and Kalashnikovs’  “Some people with beards and Kalashnikovs were standing
there,” he said in an interview. “The guys from Sharia were
there; they had their flags.”  Shortly afterward, the witness said, shooting began at the
compound’s main entrance, which he couldn’t see, and then a
Libyan guard employed by the Americans opened the rear gate.
After some shouting, several attackers opened fire with
Kalashnikov automatic rifles and a rocket-propelled grenade.  “Another guy used an RPG,” he said. “Ansar Al Sharia
guys, they fired the RPG, no doubt; I saw it.”  At about this time, Qaddafi, who isn’t related to the late
Libyan dictator, said an anxious U.S. official phoned and asked
him to help evacuate staff members to a second U.S. building
some 1.2 miles (1.9 kilometers) south of the main compound.  “I was in touch with them once it was happening,” he
said. “It was a very big attack. They were asking for help to
protect them” once they arrived at the second compound.  Bullet Holes  There are signs of a gun battle at the main compound,
including 24 bullet holes around the front and rear gates. Yet
on the inside, there are few signs of battle damage. There are
few impact marks on the villa and four other buildings, and no
cartridge casings.  The villa at the center of the compound had steel doors at
the entrances and welded steel grates on all the windows, though
the window of Steven’s bedroom was unprotected.  Stevens, who was 52, locked himself in a suite of rooms
inside the villa behind a steel door that doesn’t appear to have
been breached by the assailants. The main doors were blown in,
though, suggesting attackers entered the villa just outside the
rooms. An impact hole characteristic of a rocket-propelled
grenade is visible just above the main doors. The doors have
been forced open, possibly by the impact of the grenade.  Whether the attackers tried to breach the secure rooms -- a
bedroom, bathroom and anteroom -- where Stevens hid is unclear.
Looters who entered the villa later got into his room through
the unprotected window, not the door.  Other Casualties  Also  killed  in the attack were Sean Smith, a Foreign
Service information officer, as well as Tyrone S. Woods and Glen
A. Doherty, two former Navy SEALs who were working as security
personnel, according to a State Department news release. There
are conflicting reports about where they died.  Qaddafi of the national gendarmerie said he was awakened at
about 4 a.m. and told that a second attack was under way against
the U.S. annex where the staff had moved earlier in the night.  That building was neither fortified nor secret, with U.S.
diplomatic staff shuttling each day between the building and the
main compound in white pickup trucks, Adel Ibrahim, one of the
property’s owners, said in an interview.  Ibrahim said the survivors of the attack on the main
compound arrived at the villa in a single armored car that had
been hit by bullets during the journey.  Kevlar Helmet  There are no bullet marks on the low wall around the
compound, which is much smaller than the consulate, but the
impact marks from two projectiles are visible on the roof,
possibly from mortars. One struck the lip of the roof of the
housing block. Blood stained a concrete wall below, and a sand-
colored Kevlar helmet lay in a bush nearby.  Ibrahim said an American died there.  How, and by whose hand, remains unclear. The Libyan probe
is being run by Salem Abdul Ali, an investigating judge who said
in a Sept. 30 interview that he could not discuss details.  Speaking September 16 on ABC News “This Week,” U.S.
Ambassador to the United Nations Susan Rice called the assault a
spontaneous reaction to the anti-Islam video clip. The White
House since has said the attack was an act of terrorism, and on
Sept. 29, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence
issued a statement saying that some of the attackers “were
linked to groups affiliated with, or sympathetic to, al-Qaeda.”  Mohamed Magariaf, head of the Libyan Congress, said in a
Sept. 15 interview that members of Ansar al-Sharia participated
in the attack. The two U.S. officials said intelligence
indicates that the group was responsible for the attack.  Militia’s Denial  The militia, which says it disbanded after anti-Islamist
protests in Benghazi last month, denied involvement in the
consulate attack, spokesman Youseff el-Gehani said.  Ansar al-Sharia has links to al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb, an extremist group in northern  Africa  that they said is
largely self-sufficient and not directed by the remaining al-
Qaeda leaders in  Pakistan . The U.S. officials said yesterday the
CIA and other agencies have been collecting intelligence on the
group and its leaders for more than a year and have stepped up
efforts to locate its bases since the Sept. 11 attack.  In Benghazi, a Sept. 30 visit found the consulate building
a gutted wreck. The room where Stevens hid was a jumble, with an
overturned mattress, smashed furniture and a used disposable
smoke mask. The ambassador’s soot-covered clothing still hung in
the closet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Benghazi, Libya at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  