-- Iceland Keeps Main Rate Unchanged as Inflation Seen Receding
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-10-03T08:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/iceland-keeps-main-rate-unchanged-as-inflation-seen-receding.html
Iceland’s central bank kept its main
 interest rate  unchanged for a second meeting amid an outlook the
krona will stabilize and inflation slow as the country emerges
from its economic collapse.  The seven-day collateral lending rate was kept unchanged at
5.75 percent, Reykjavik-based Sedlabanki said today.  “Inflation has been somewhat lower than was forecast in
August,” the bank said in a statement. “On the other
hand, the krona is weaker than was assumed at that time, and the
near-term exchange rate outlook is quite uncertain. On balance,
the inflation outlook has not changed significantly since the
MPC’s last meeting. Inflation expectations remain above the
Bank’s inflation target, although they have declined slightly by
some measures.”  The bank has raised rates five times since August last year
to cool inflation as it struggles to lift  capital controls  in
place since the economic collapse in 2008. While suffering a
slump in August, the krona has risen about 5 percent since April
after the country closed a loophole in its controls, which are
blocking as much as $8 billion in offshore krona assets from
being sold, according to estimates by Arion Banki hf.  The bank forecast in August that inflation will average 5.4
percent this year and slow to 3.4 percent next year and 3
percent in 2013, compared with its 2.5 percent target. Gross
domestic product will expand 3.1 percent in 2012, 2.2 percent
next year and 3.4 percent in 2014, the bank said then.  Annual inflation was 4.3 percent in September after
reaching a 12-month low of 4.1 percent in August. A weaker
currency pushes up the cost of imports for the north Atlantic
island, which targets an inflation rate of 2.5 percent.  Outlook Good  Iceland, whose banks defaulted on $85 billion in 2008,
completed a 33-month  IMF  program in August last year. The
outlook for the country’s $13 billion economy is “good” and
this year the island is likely to “broadly” repeat an economic
growth rate of 2.6 percent achieved in 2011, the Washington-
based lender said last month.  A working group consisting of members from the IMF, the
European Commission, the European Central Bank and Icelandic
officials is due to deliver an interim report on the options for
removing the capital controls by year-end, the  Finance Ministry 
said on Sept. 25.  Iceland started European Union accession talks in 2010 and
the government has said it targets euro adoption as soon as
possible after joining the bloc. A poll by newspaper
Morgunbladid published Aug. 13 showed that 39 of the 63
lawmakers in parliament oppose continuing talks and may push the
legislature to address the option of dropping membership
preparations before elections next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  