-- Miliband ‘Predators’ Language Echoes Kinnock Policy Paper
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-10-03T15:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/miliband-predators-language-echoes-kinnock-policy-paper.html
U.K. opposition leader  Ed Miliband ’s
description of businesses as “predators” yesterday uses
language from a 1989 policy paper from the days of his
predecessor Neil Kinnock.  In his keynote speech yesterday to Labour’s annual
conference in Manchester, northern England, Miliband proposed
changing takeover rules to encourage companies to take a “long-
term productive view.” He repeated a description of some
businesses as “predators,” a formulation he first came up with
a year ago, saying that “companies in Britain are far more
easily bought and sold than in many other countries” and that
investors should be required to act in the long-term interest of
businesses.  Labour’s 1989 document, titled “Meet the Challenge, Make
the Change,” made the same point. The U.K. is “uniquely open”
to takeovers, it said. “We shall reverse the burden of proof so
that the predator must show that that the takeover is positively
in the public interest,” the party said in a document that
aimed to make it electable again after 10 years in opposition.  “It is interesting that Miliband is returning to the ideas
and policies that he studied at university and that he
campaigned for at the very start of his political career,” Mark Wickham-Jones, professor of politics at Bristol University, said
in an interview in Manchester today. “It is potentially
problematic, given the electoral difficulties those policies
encountered.”  Election Defeats  Kinnock, who was Labour leader from 1983 to 1992, led the
party to two election defeats against Conservative Prime
Ministers  Margaret Thatcher  and  John Major . Even so, he laid
much of the groundwork for Labour’s 1997 victory under  Tony Blair , distancing it from trades unions and renewing its image.  The 1989 document was part of that effort, setting out the
party’s approach to every area of policy across 88 pages. It’s
held in the Labour Party’s archive at the  People’s History
Museum , 10 minutes’ walk from the conference center in
Manchester.  Speaking to delegates in Manchester today, Miliband told
them that “we are not going to the 1980s, we are not going back
to internal tension and the civil war,” referring to Kinnock’s
battles with the Trotskyist “militant tendency” in the  Labour
Party .  Industrial Strategy  Other areas where Labour announcements this week coincided
with the 1989 paper are in industrial policy. The Kinnock
document called for a British Investment Bank to increase
lending to companies and for the  Department of Trade and
Industry  to be reorganized to develop a “medium-term industrial
strategy.”  Labour’s current business spokesman, Chuka Umunna, said
Oct. 1 the party would create a British Investment Bank and
review the way the Department for Business works to support an
“active industrial strategy.”  Then, as now, bankers were a target.  “The Conservatives are the party for the City,” Kinnock
wrote in his introduction. The document referred to takeovers
benefiting “merchant bankers and advertising agencies,” rather
than industry as a whole.  The 1989 paper called for a top rate of income tax of 50
percent. Miliband said yesterday that if Labour was in office
now, it would reverse the decision by  David Cameron ’s coalition
government to cut the top rate to 45 percent from 50 percent.  ‘New Approach’  Miliband described his speech as marking “a new approach
for the future” for his party, moving on from the “New
Labour” movement of Blair, who was leader until 2007.  “Old Labour, if you like, wasn’t careful with public
money,” Miliband told the BBC today. “Old Labour was for one
section interest of society. New Labour was too timid about the
responsibilities of those at the top. One-nation Labour, which
is what I’m talking about, is saying we want responsibility from
all including those at the top.”  Miliband later told delegated he would attend a march
against government budget cuts organized by the  Trades Union
Congress  on Oct. 20.  The echoes may partly be the result of personnel. Labour
lawmaker Jon Cruddas, who was a policy officer under Kinnock, is
now in charge of Miliband’s own policy review.  ‘Thousand Generations’  Kinnock’s words have been borrowed by other politicians. In
August 1987,  Joe Biden , then a U.S. senator seeking the 1988
Democratic presidential nomination, spoke in an Iowa debate
about how he’d started thinking on the way there about being
“the first Biden in a thousand generations to get a college and
a graduate degree,” asking if it was because he was “smarter
than the rest?”  Those lines were taken from a Kinnock speech earlier in the
year, in which the Labour leader asked “Why am I the first
Kinnock in a thousand generations to be able to get to
university” and whether it was “because all our predecessors
were thick?”  Kinnock, who championed Miliband’s bid to become Labour
leader two years ago, applauded the speech as he sat in the hall
yesterday.  “It was brilliant in all respects,” Kinnock was cited as
saying by the Press Association newswire. “What he’s doing is
manifesting the strengths that made me want him to be leader.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Manchester,  England  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in Manchester, England at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  