-- Illinois Legislature to Buttress Flagging Pension, Martire Says
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-10-03T19:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/illinois-legislature-to-buttress-flagging-pension-martire-says.html
The  Illinois  Legislature will shore
up the state’s underfunded pension system when it meets after
the November elections, having failed to do so in August, the
head of a Chicago-based watchdog group predicted.  “There’s a lot of lame ducks that will be looking for jobs
and will be looking to leadership in exchange for their vote,”
Ralph Martire, executive director of the Center for Tax and
Budget Accountability, said today at the State & Municipal
Finance Conference hosted by  Bloomberg Link  in  New York . “We
call that session in Illinois the chicanery session, and that’s
when a lot of things happen.”  Illinois’s credit rating in August was reduced one step by
 Standard & Poor’s  to A, the sixth-highest grade. The company
said the move was partly the result of weak pension funding.
With only 43.4 percent of what it needs to pay promised
benefits, Illinois has the worst system among states, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The pension is underfunded by $83 billion, said Martire,
whose group says it promotes “fair, efficient and progressive
tax, spending and economic policies.”  Altering retirement alone won’t solve the underlying fiscal
crisis, he said. Illinois suffers from an outdated tax system,
excessive borrowing and costs that outstrip revenue, Martire
said.  Still, the state remains the nation’s fifth-largest economy
and benefits from a resurgence in manufacturing, said Ted Hampton, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service Inc.  He said Moody’s has downgraded Illinois’s rating four times
in the past four years, making it the company’s lowest-rated
state. Hampton said although the fiscal outlook is gloomy, “the
state does have the ability to muster political willpower from
time to time.”  Not in August. Lawmakers failed to act on the pension
during a one-day session called by Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn . They took no action on increasing employee contributions,
passing costs to school districts and forcing workers to choose
between the pension plan and free health care in retirement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  