-- IMF Says Pakistan Hasn’t Sought New Loan, May Miss Deficit Goal
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2012-10-03T19:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/imf-says-pakistan-hasn-t-sought-new-loan-may-miss-deficit-goal.html
Pakistan hasn’t requested a fresh
loan and may exceed its target for the  budget deficit  this
fiscal year, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “There is no request for an IMF program at this stage,”
 Jeffrey Franks , the IMF’s mission chief to Pakistan, said at a
briefing in Islamabad yesterday. There is a “big danger” the
fiscal shortfall will exceed the goal of 4.7 percent of gross
domestic product in the year that began July 1, fanned by
subsidies and the risk of below-target  tax revenue , he said.  Pakistan’s economy has been hurt by power blackouts, an
insurgency on the Afghan border and a drop in exports as global
growth falters. The nation also needs to repay billions of
dollars to the Washington-based lender, threatening to pressure
foreign reserves, and Franks said there are ongoing discussions
between the government and the IMF about the country’s outlook.  “Given large debt repayments and a sharp decline in
foreign direct investment inflows, it seems inevitable that
 Pakistan  will be forced into another IMF bailout by end-2013,”
Sayem Ali, an economist at Standard Chartered Plc in Karachi,
wrote in a note on Oct. 1. Foreign-reserves will fall to
“critical” levels of $7 billion by June next year, Ali said.  The IMF suspended disbursement of an $11.3 billion loan in
May 2010 after Pakistan failed to meet conditions attached to it.
The program expired in September last year, and the country
didn’t seek a new one.  Fiscal Reform  Pakistan has to repay about $7.5 billion to the lender from
2012 to 2015, with $1.2 billion of that amount handed over as of
June, Moody’s Investors Service said in July, when it cut
Pakistan’s credit rating deeper into junk status on falling
reserves and political instability.  While Pakistan has made some fiscal progress in the past
couple of years, it needs further reforms to achieve its budget
goals, Franks said.  At the same time, any proposed tax amnesty initiative
seeking to bolster revenues may only be effective in the short
term, he said, adding the government needs to broaden the tax
base permanently.  Only 1.5 million people, or less than 1 percent of the
population, files tax returns, according to the  Finance Ministry .  One obstacle to the rapid provision of fresh IMF aid may be
the need to await the outcome of the next general election,
which is due by early 2013. A tussle between the judiciary and
the government has added to political tension ahead of the poll.  Foreign Reserves  Total liquid  foreign reserves  stood at $14.8 billion on
Sept. 21, down from $17.3 billion at the end of the same month
in 2011, according to data from the  State Bank  of Pakistan.  The current-account deficit  widened  to $4.6 billion in the
fiscal year through June 2012, from a surplus of $214 million in
2010-2011. The budget gap was 8.5 percent of GDP in 2011-2012
when energy-sector payments are included, according to the IMF.  Economic risks have weighed on Pakistan’s rupee, which has
weakened about 8 percent against the dollar in the past year.  The government estimates the economy probably expanded 3.7
percent in the 12 months ended June 2012. It has a goal of 4.3
percent growth for the current financial year, even as power
blackouts as long as 18 hours a day hamper businesses.  Inflation eased to a 33-month low of 8.79 percent in
September, bolstering scope for a further reduction in  interest
rates  to spur spending at home. The next monetary policy review
is due tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 