-- IMF Urges Hungary to Focus on Growth, Not More Austerity
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-10-04T16:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/imf-urges-hungary-to-focus-on-growth-outlook-not-more-austerity.html
The  International Monetary Fund  wants
Hungary to implement “more balanced” policies that improve the
growth outlook and doesn’t recommend austerity measures on top
of the government’s planned 2013 budget cuts.  “We are not looking for more fiscal adjustment beyond what
the government is already planning, there is no more austerity
in our proposals,” Iryna Ivaschenko, the IMF’s representative
in Budapest, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “But we
think the adjustment can be achieved with more balanced
measures, and more generally, we are looking for policies that
can boost growth.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  on Oct. 1 ruled out an IMF loan
agreement that entails cuts in pensions, jobs or wages,
conditions which last month he said were demands of
international lenders. Hungary can finance itself through
mid-2013 without bailout, or “with luck” even longer, Mihaly Varga, the government’s chief IMF negotiator, said in interview
with the weekly Heti Valasz, published today.  Hungary, the European Union’s most-indebted eastern member,
which is suffering its second recession in four years, requested
aid in November as its  credit rating  was cut to junk. Talks for
a loan of about 15 billion euros ($19.4 billion) were delayed
multiple times because of Orban’s resistance to adhere to legal
and economic conditions set by the IMF and the EU.  The IMF hasn’t set a date for resuming aid talks, spokesman
Gerry Rice said. “We’re not advocating a tighter fiscal stance
for 2013 than the government’s current target,” Rice said at a
press conference in  Washington  today. The IMF wants to see “a
balanced and sustainable package of measures.”  Possible Measures  The steps being considered by the government to prevent
next year’s deficit from widening by 600 billion forint ($2.7
billion) include raising the value-added tax, imposing a
transaction levy on central-bank deals, delaying the full
introduction of the flat personal-income tax, and increasing the
tax load of commercial banks, news website Origo reported,
citing unidentified government officials and documents.  Investor confidence in the government’s commitment to reach
an IMF accord has helped the forint recover this year after
dropping 15 percent against the euro in the second-half of 2011,
the most in the world. It has strengthened 10.3 percent this
year, making it the best performing currency in the world.  The forint traded at 285.05 per euro at 5:55 p.m. in
Budapest, compared with 285.97 yesterday.  2013 Shortfall  The Cabinet sent its policy proposals to the IMF last
month, which include capping social benefits. The Washington-
based lender sees  Hungary  2013 budget deficit “well over” 3
percent of gross domestic product because of its lower growth
projection than the government’s, Varga told Heti Valasz.  Varga said he was “personally” convinced Hungary needs an
IMF agreement. Yet, Hungary wouldn’t face “hell” if aid deal
failed, he said.  While Hungary is “flooded with offers” from investment
banks to manage an international bond sale, the government
shouldn’t issue foreign-currency debt yet, Varga told Heti
Valasz.  Hungary’s Proposals  Hungary is ready to change some value-added tax rules,
clamp down on the underground economy, cut red tape, cap family
allowances and employee social-security payments and review EU
development fund-disbursement rules, Varga said on Oct. 1.  That will probably fall short of IMF and EU expectations as
the measures would do little to boost potential growth,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  said on Oct. 2. The government is trying to avoid
an aid deal because structural measures that would be required
would be “politically painful,” Budapest-based Citigroup
economist  Eszter Gargyan  said.  Orban has used special taxes on the banking, energy, retail
and telecommunication industries to plug budget holes, which
along with the nationalization of private-pension funds damaged
investor  confidence , cut investments and helped push the economy
into recession.  The government will probably have to cut its 1.6 percent
growth forecast for next year, Varga told legislators this week.
The economy shrank 1.3 percent in the second quarter from the
year-earlier period.  Hungary needs to move away from “ad hoc” taxes and should
create a more “business friendly” environment to boost growth
and make budget financing sustainable, the IMF said in a July 26
statement after a week of talks in Budapest.  The government has said it can finance itself and would
only need a precautionary loan from international lenders as a
safety net to reduce country risk and cut financing costs.  The IMF reiterated that Hungary qualifies for a standby
loan facility, which according to the lender’s rules comes with
quarterly policy reviews. The government need not draw on the
funds, the IMF said.  “Our Stand-by Arrangements could be treated as
precautionary by the government,” Ivaschenko said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  