-- India’s Central Bank Expects Inflation to Ease, Subbarao Says
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-10-03T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/india-s-central-bank-expects-inflation-to-ease-subbarao-says.html
India ’s central bank expects price
pressures to ease,  Reserve Bank of India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said, as the nation fights the fastest inflation among
major emerging economies.  “Our endeavor, our effort and our expectation is inflation
will come down,” Subbarao said in a speech at a town hall event
in the southern Indian state of Puducherry yesterday. “Our goal
is for low and steady” inflation levels.  The central bank left borrowing costs unchanged last month
for a third meeting to damp an  inflation rate  above 7 percent,
while reducing bank reserve ratios to support a recent push by
the government to revive growth. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
has allowed more foreign investment and raised diesel prices to
pare fuel subsidies, part of a burst of policy changes after
months of inaction dimmed the economy’s outlook.  The rupee has appreciated more than 6 percent against the
dollar since the government began the policy revamp on Sept. 13,
paring its drop in the past 12 months. The  BSE India Sensitive
Index (SENSEX)  rose 0.2 percent yesterday, while the yield on the 10-year
bonds due June 2022 declined to 8.15 percent from 8.16 percent.  Headline inflation accelerated to 7.55 percent in August,
the fastest pace in the BRIC group of largest emerging nations,
which includes Brazil, Russia and  China .  The central bank remains focused on inflation and plans to
review its estimate for the financial year through March at its
next monetary policy meeting, Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  told
reporters in Chennai yesterday. The central bank raised its
inflation estimate to 7 percent in July.  Comfort Level  India faces price pressures from a more than 5 percent
decline in the rupee against the dollar in the past year and a
weak monsoon that may stoke food  costs  by crimping farm output,
according to the central bank. Governor Subbarao has said the
comfort level for inflation may be about 5 percent.  The monetary authority left its benchmark  repurchase rate 
at 8 percent on Sept. 17. It reduced the  cash reserve ratio  to
4.5 percent, the lowest level since 2004, from 4.75 percent.  The government raised diesel tariffs on Sept. 14 for the
first time in over a year, the same day it opened industries
including retail and aviation to more overseas investment.  Retail FDI  The government’s decision to allow foreign investment in
supermarket chains will benefit producers and buyers and create
more jobs, Subbarao said.  “It will help consumers, in the sense that they will get
better quality, presumably at low prices,” he said.  Singh’s government is trying avert a ratings downgrade by
bolstering growth and curbing a subsidy program ranging from
diesel to fertilizers to meet its budget deficit goal of 5.1
percent of gross domestic product in the 12 months through March
2013 from 5.8 percent.  The Indian economy has the ability to withstand high
current  account  and fiscal deficits, Subbarao said. India’s
current account, the broadest measure of trade, narrowed to
$16.4 billion in the three months ended June 30, compared with a
$21.7 billion gap from January through March, the  Reserve Bank 
of India said in a statement on Sept. 28.  The fiscal shortfall and a deficit in the current account
led Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings to say earlier this year
that they may strip India of its investment-grade  credit rating .  The Reserve Bank has signaled that curbing the budget
shortfall is pivotal to increasing room for rate cuts to bolster
economic expansion, which weakened to a nine-year low of 6.5
percent last fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  