-- Inherited Diseases Found Sooner in Newborns With DNA Scan
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-10-03T18:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/inherited-diseases-found-sooner-in-newborns-with-dna-scan.html
Scanning the DNA of sick infants
using a new speed-reading method can diagnose rare genetic
disorders in two days instead of weeks, according to research
that brings gene mapping a step closer to everyday hospital use.  Researchers at  Children’s Mercy Hospitals and Clinics  in
Kansas City,  Missouri , created software that takes raw data from
DNA scanning machines and combs though hundreds of genetic
disorders to spot disease-causing mutations. The system provided
likely diagnoses for three of four sick babies in about two
days, results published in Science Translational Medicine found.  The new method has the potential to make genome sequencing
practical for neonatal intensive care units, enabling doctors to
diagnose mysterious genetic diseases more quickly, said  Stephen
Kingsmore , director of the Center for Pediatric Genomic Medicine
at Children’s Mercy and a study senior author. Fast diagnoses of
sick babies could lead to life-extending treatments sooner in
some or help avoid futile, costly therapies in others.  “This is the biggest breakthrough in this technology for
clinical applications we have seen in a few years,” said  David
Dimmock , a geneticist at the Medical College of  Wisconsin  and
Children’s Hospital of Wisconsin in  Milwaukee , who wasn’t
involved in the study. “The ability to sequence and interpret a
genome in less than week is huge.”  Dimmock said researchers at his institution were working on
a similar fast genome interpretation system, but hadn’t
published the results yet. “They beat us to the punch,” he
said.  3,500 Diseases  There are about 3,500 known genetic diseases of which 500
have treatments, Kingsmore said. Many of these genetic illnesses
hit young kids. Roughly 20 percent of infant deaths are caused
by genetic conditions, according to the study released today.  The Children’s Mercy Hospital system was made possible in
part by a new sequencing machine developed by San Diego-based
 Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  that can decode an entire DNA sequence of a person
in one day. This generates a colossal volume of raw data that
must be analyzed by expert genetic researchers, a process that
previously has taken weeks or months.  Here’s where the system devised by Children’s Mercy
researchers comes into play. Kingsmore and his team devised
smart software that allows treating doctors to enter in a sick
baby’s symptoms. The software then matches these reported
symptoms to known genetic diseases that have similar symptoms,
and scans through the baby’s genome results for likely harmful
mutations in relevant genes.  ‘Transforming’ Neonatology  “We think this is going to transform the world of
neonatology,” Kingsmore said during a conference call with
reporters. “Until now, this was just not possible” to get
whole genome scan results quickly enough to help sick newborns
in intensive care units, he said. “Babies either died or else
got better and were discharged home before the results of a gene
test were returned.”  For cases in which treatments are available, spotting the
cause of a disease sooner may allow treatments to be started
before it is too late, he said. Kingsmore estimated the total
cost of the test to be about $13,500.  The software so far includes 600 genetic diseases that
affect children, Kingsmore said on a phone interview. His team
plans to have all 3,500 genetic diseases entered in the system
by the end of the year.  Diagnostics Movement  The research is behind a move to bring gene-sequencing
technology, mostly used in academic, government and company
laboratories, into hospitals and doctors’ offices for diagnostic
purposes. Illumina and Carlsbad, California-based  Life
Technologies Corp. (LIFE) , the two biggest makers of gene sequencing
machines, have been on acquisition sprees aiming at the
diagnostics market. Several Illumina researchers were co-authors
on the  study .  The projected two-day turnaround time for the test doesn’t
include time it took to express-mail DNA samples to Illumina and
for the company to send back the results on a hard drive.
Including this transit time, the process took about a week,
Kingsmore said. Kingsmore said he hopes to achieve the two-day
time after Children’s Mercy Hospital gets its own copy of the
new Illumina machine later this fall.  “They are trying to push the envelope,” said  Wendy Chung ,
a molecular and clinical geneticist at Columbia University.
“Can you not only generate the data, can you analyze and turn
it around in a couple of days?”  Big Improvement  Chung said the two-day turnaround time represented “a
best-case scenario” that is unlikely to be achieved in most
real-world circumstances. A more realistic time for genome
results would be a week, given practical considerations such as
the fact that most hospital labs close over the weekend, she
said. This still would be a big improvement over current
methods, she said.  Chung also cautioned that there only are a minority of
cases where super-fast gene scans will lead to life-saving
treatments. Most severe genetic diseases don’t have good
treatments, and the ones that do often can be diagnosed by other
methods that don’t require every gene to be scanned.  Three of four infants that got genome scans in the study
have died, according to the published results. The fourth infant
is still alive, and the technology spotted a genetic defect that
is the likely cause of the heart problems in this infant and his
six year old brother, according to the results.  The study was sponsored by Children’s Mercy Hospital and
the Marion Merrell Dow Foundation. Illumina provided free DNA
sequencing for the babies in the study.  Fast Decoding  Kingsmore said he and his colleagues started testing the
new software on infants after they heard about Illumina’s fast
genome decoding machine early this year. They first successfully
tried the software on two infants in whom the cause of disease
was already known, before proceeding to use it on babies treated
by the hospital with unknown diseases.  Since the study was submitted, the Children’s Mercy
Hospital researchers have used the method on two additional
babies, and it has found a cause in one of the two cases.  Even when there aren’t treatments for an infant, knowing
what genetic disease runs in the family is helpful for parents
and their relatives, Kingsmore said.  In one of the three infants who died, the scan identified
the cause of a mysterious recessive disease that had previously
hit several others members of an extended family, he said.  “The family was very grateful to have an answer,”
Kingsmore said. “They were able to go back to their expanded
family and let them know.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  