-- Iranians Abandon Meat for Bread as Rial Freefalls
-- B y   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-10-04T12:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/iranians-abandon-meat-for-bread-as-rial-freefall-sparks-protests.html
Iran ’s freefalling currency is
turning meat into a luxury, sparking overnight price surges and
spurring shoppers to stockpile goods.  “Most of my customers just look at products behind the
window and pass,” said Behrouz Madani, 42, who owns a butcher
shop in northwest Tehran. “I see them going to the next store,
which is a bakery, to feed their families with bread.”  Iran’s rial is in a tailspin, having lost more than half of
its value against the dollar in street trading in the past two
months as U.S. and European sanctions aimed at curbing the
country’s nuclear program bite. Riot police yesterday fired tear
gas and sealed off parts of downtown Tehran after the currency’s
plunge triggered street protests.  Hundreds of security forces patrolled the area today and
most foreign currency shops were closed. The inflation rate,
estimated by Parliament Speaker Ali Larijani at 29 percent last
week, has accelerated to the point where the price of milk in
Tehran rose 9 percent yesterday.  The economic situation has “reached a point where it
becomes almost impossible not to show reaction,” said Anoush Ehteshami, professor of international affairs at Durham
University in the U.K.  The rial is falling as sanctions eat into Iranian oil
exports and foreign currency earnings. The currency dropped
about 18 percent on Oct. 1, reaching 35,000 to the dollar on the
unofficial market. The currency traded at 36,100 yesterday, the
 state-run Mehr news agency  said, though traders in Tehran said
most exchange houses have halted dealing in the greenback. That
compares with the official value of 12,260 rials per dollar set
by the central bank.  Future Angst  Most Iranians can’t access that rate apart from some
importers of essential goods such as medicines, meat and grains.  People “are nervous about tomorrow and next week because
they don’t know how much more expensive things will be,” said
Mostafa Daryani, 52, whose family owns a Tehran supermarket
chain. “They only buy their daily needs and ignore most of the
things that are not urgent for daily life. Instead of one bottle
of milk, they buy two.”  Prices of home appliances have doubled in the past six
months and some shopowners prefer to hoard goods rather than
sell them in the hope that they can get higher prices in the
future, said Yahya Ebrahimi, 48, who owns an electronics store
in central Tehran. Merchants are increasingly using the dollar
value of items as the basis for sales, he said.  Ease Tensions  Madani, the butcher, says the cost of chicken, a staple in
the country, has doubled in the past year.  President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  has sought to ease tensions
in the country, saying in an Oct. 2 press conference that the
situation will improve and there was “no economic
justification” for the rial’s dive.  “The enemy is administering pressure and it’s lying when
they say it’s pressuring the government,” he said. “It’s
pressuring the nation, the people.”  That’s clear on the streets of Tehran.  Daryani’s brother, Mohsen, said their supermarket chain
started to delay purchases of inventory this week due to the
rial’s fall.  “We stopped making large purchases because prices aren’t
fixed,” Mohsen Daryani said “Factories are changing the final
cost of their products because of the changes in the foreign
currency exchange rate every second.”  Weapons Program  The economic squeeze “is a very serious problem for the
Iranian regime, because it threatens its socio-economic
stability,” Ehteshami said. “To really deal with the crisis
will require stabilizing the economy by reducing the sanctions,
which is really a political decision, not an economic one.”  Western powers say Iran is hiding a nuclear-weapons program
and the U.S. and  Israel  have raised the possibility of military
strikes against its atomic installations. Iran says its nuclear
program is peaceful and aims to make electricity.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has been calling
for a “clear red line” to be drawn on Iran’s uranium-
enrichment program after which force could be used. U.S.
officials have refused to take such as step and have said that
sanctions and diplomacy must be given the chance to work.  The U.K.,  France  and  Germany  are pressing for even tougher
sanctions to bring Iran’s economy to its knees, according to
four European officials who all spoke on condition of anonymity
because of diplomatic protocol. They want to tighten the vise in
the energy, finance, trade and transportation sectors.  Darker Days  “There are all sorts of public discussions going on now
between the parliament and the executive branch about the
handling of macro-economic issues, especially the currency,”
Ehteshami said. That said, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei
“‘has made it his badge of honor to not yield under pressure.”  For Akbar Mohebi, a retired Daryani supermarket clerk, the
tougher times mean that his son has to cancel plans for studying
abroad.  ‘Yesterday, I told him forget about your dream,” Mohebi
said. “Darker days will come to us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yeganeh Salehi in Dubai at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  