-- Iranian Riot Police Deployed in Tehran Amid Falling Rial
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-10-03T21:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/iranian-riot-police-deployed-in-tehran-after-rial-protests-1-.html
Iranian riot police sealed off parts
of downtown Tehran and fired tear gas rounds after street
protests triggered by the country’s tumbling currency.  More than 200 policemen were stationed yesterday around
Ferdowsi Street, near one of the main areas for traders in the
capital, and broke up groups of passers-by. They were also sent
to the city’s merchant bazaar after shopkeepers refused to open
and trash cans were set alight in the streets.  “The price of the dollar was unclear so we went on strike
and decided to shut our store,” said Rouhollah, who works in a
wholesale food shop in the bazaar. Shopkeepers didn’t know at
what price to sell their goods, he said.  President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  called for calm on Oct. 2,
blaming the weakening of the rial on foreign pressures. Iran’s
economy is suffering after the U.S. and the European Union
tightened trade and financial sanctions in the past year. The
restrictions, aimed at curbing  Iran’s nuclear program , have
limited the country’s ability to sell oil, its biggest export,
and other goods in return for currencies such as dollars and
euros.  “The fact that there are street protests was in many ways
inevitable given that Iranians are essentially living in a
pressure cooker,” said Anoush Ehteshami, professor of
international relations at Durham University in the U.K. “The
pressure is inherently economic and affecting all strata of
society.”  Tumbling Rial  The Iranian people “will never surrender to pressure,”
Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  said yesterday in an
address to a group of students, according to the state-run  Fars
news agency . “In the past 33 years, the Islamic Republic has
been faced with a wide range of political, security, military,
economic pressures and sanctions but the Iranian nation has not
only canceled these pressures but also come out of it more
powerful.”  The rial, which has declined in value over the past year,
dropped about 18 percent on Oct. 1, reaching a record low of
35,000 to the dollar on the unofficial market. It weakened from
12,100 to the U.S. currency in September 2010 to 13,200 in
November before slumping to its current level.  While the Iranian currency was valued at 36,100 yesterday,
according to the state-run Mehr news agency, traders in Tehran
said in interviews that most exchange houses have halted dealing
in the greenback.  The current street value of the rial is less than a third
of the official rate of 12,260 per dollar set by the central
bank, a rate to which most Iranians, except some importers of
essential goods including medicines, meat and grains, don’t have
access.  ‘Lack of Confidence’  The crisis has been compounded by poor economic policies,
said Ehteshami. “The protest also reflects the lack of
confidence in the elite’s ability to sort things out,” he said.
“People are also aware of tensions at the highest level of the
state and you put these things together and they want at the
very least to show their anger.”  The rial’s dive happened about a week after the opening of
an exchange center by the government, aimed at stabilizing the
market. Central bank Governor Mahmoud Bahmani, cited in the
Donya-e-Eqtesad newspaper Oct. 2, said the institution will
“fully cover real demand” for foreign currencies. Importers of
basic goods such as industrial and agricultural machinery can
benefit from a discount from the market rate at the center.  ‘Wrong Decisions’  Ahmad Karimi-Esfahani, head of the society of syndicates
and bazaar, said the government “isn’t fit” to make decisions
for the markets.  “The government’s wrong decisions have fed the price
bubble for foreign currencies,” Karimi-Esfahani said in a
report published by Mehr. “The government has incited ordinary
Iranians to trade currencies and today we are seeing that as
much as it injects currencies into the market, it still can’t
meet demand.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday that
Iran’s government bears responsibility for the collapse of the
country’s currency.  “I think the Iranian government deserves responsibility
for what is going on inside Iran and that is who should be held
accountable,” Clinton said at the State Department in
 Washington . “They have made their own government decisions
having nothing to do with the sanctions,” she said, referring
to U.S. and international sanctions on the country.  “Sanctions had an impact as well,” Clinton said. “But
those could be remedied in short order if the Iranian government
were willing to work with” the group of countries negotiating
with it on its nuclear program.  The U.S., the EU and Israel have expressed concern that
 Iran  intends to develop nuclear weapons, an allegation the
Islamic Republic denies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  