-- Third Point’s Loeb Adds to AIG Stake, Sees ‘Upside’
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-10-03T21:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/third-point-s-loeb-adds-to-aig-stake-sees-significant-upside-.html
Daniel Loeb’s $9.3 billion Third
Point LLC hedge fund added shares of  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  last quarter, betting the stock will rise as the U.S.
cuts a stake acquired in the insurer’s rescue.  AIG shares have “significant upside,” the New York-based
fund said today in a  letter  to investors.  The U.S. Treasury Department has lowered its  stake  in the
New York-based insurer to 16 percent from 92 percent as the
stock climbed after results improved at the Chartis property-
casualty unit, the company’s largest business. Chartis has
worked to expand in  emerging markets  and reduce business in so-
called long-tail lines, which require the company to hold larger
sums of capital to back obligations to commercial clients.  “Chartis’s management, led by the talented Peter Hancock,
is emphasizing international and shorter-tail consumer property
lines,” Third Point wrote.  AIG  advanced  2.2 percent to $34.21 at the close of  New York 
trading. The insurer has rallied 47 percent this year, the
biggest advance in the 22-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Insurance Index.  When the U.S. winds down its stake, AIG will be freed from
government pay limits for top managers and may start paying a
 dividend , Third Point wrote. The government oversees executive
compensation as part of the bailout that began amid the 2008
credit crisis and swelled to $182.3 billion.  ‘Critical Catalyst’  Treasury’s exit “will serve as a critical catalyst for the
company,” allowing for a shift in compensation to an incentive-
based bonus model, Third Point said.  AIG has said pay restrictions make it more difficult to
attract and retain the best employees. The U.S. has recouped the
cost of rescuing AIG, and the limits remain in place until
Treasury sells its final share. Jim Ankner, a company spokesman,
declined to comment.  Third Point held 2.25 million shares as of June 30,
according to a regulatory filing listing holdings as of the end
of the second quarter. Loeb said in today’s letter that his fund
“continued to accumulate AIG shares in Treasury’s offerings in
the second and third quarters” without specifying the size of
the latest purchases. Elissa Doyle, a spokeswoman for Third
Point, declined to comment on the letter.  Blue Ridge Capital LLC., the hedge fund run by John Griffin, added an AIG stake in the second quarter and  Leon Cooperman ’s Omega Advisors Inc. tripled its AIG holding in the
period, the firms said in August. Bruce Berkowitz’s Fairholme
Capital Management LLC. is the largest owner after the U.S. with
about 88 million AIG shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  