-- Lithuania Anti-Corruption Agency Charges Vilnius Deputy Mayor
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s   a n d   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-10-03T15:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/lithuania-anti-corruption-agency-charges-vilnius-deputy-mayor.html
Lithuania’s anti-corruption agency
charged Vilnius Deputy Mayor Romas Adomavicius, a candidate for
the  Social Democrat  party that’s leading in the polls less than
two weeks before elections, with bribe taking.  Adomavicius is suspected of “demanding, provoking and
accepting a personal bribe of 40,000 litai” ($15,000) for
ensuring that a company would win an 8 million-litai contract,
the Special Investigation Service in Vilnius said today in a
statement on its website. Adomavicius, who has denied taking any
bribes, wasn’t immediately available to comment.  Lithuania will hold parliamentary elections with two rounds
of voting on Oct. 14 and Oct. 28. The opposition Social
Democrats are in the lead with 23.4 percent support, compared
with 12.3 percent for Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius’s Homeland
Union party, the newspaper Lietuvos Rytas reported Sept. 24,
citing a Vilmorus poll.  Adomavicius, 59, denied having taken any bribe after money
was seized from his office during a raid by the Special
Investigation Service on Sept. 27, the  Baltic News Service 
reported today. He has suspended his party membership, BNS said.  “However this incident ends, it’s a powerful blow to our
party’s reputation,” Algirdas Butkevicius, the head of the
opposition Social Democrat party, said on the party’s website
today. “The fact that this event could hurt us, the Social
Democrats, and influence the results of the parliamentary
elections, sparks a variety of thoughts about its timing.”  The  Labor party , which promises to cut unemployment to zero
in three years, was favored by 21.1 percent of decided voters,
while Order & Justice had 13.9 percent backing in the Sept. 7-16
survey by Vilmorus, according to Lietuvos Rytas.  The Way of Courage party, formed six months ago, had 6.5
percent support, while the Liberal Movement, a partner in the
current ruling coalition, was the last party to receive backing
that would exceed the 5 percent threshold to enter parliament,
getting 5.3 percent.  Twenty-six percent said they were still undecided, while
another 11.6 percent said they don’t plan to vote. The poll of
1,004 eligible voters didn’t give a margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  