-- Japan Should Acknowledge Islands in Dispute, Lawmaker Kato Says
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-10-03T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/japan-should-acknowledge-islands-in-dispute-lawmaker-kato-says.html
Japan  should acknowledge that the
sovereignty of islands also claimed by China is in dispute as a
first step to stemming the financial toll from spreading,
according to a Japanese lawmaker.  “The Chinese economy is slowing down, affected by the
 European debt crisis ,” Koichi Kato, former secretary general of
the main opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  and chairman of the
Japan-China Friendship Association, said in an interview in
Tokyo this week. “Against this backdrop, the strained Japan-
China political relations will deal another blow to the
economies of both countries.”  Chinese patrol ships yesterday entered disputed waters for
a second day as the row over the islands -- known as Senkaku in
Japan and Diaoyu in China -- threatens to undermine 40 years of
diplomatic ties and a $340 billion trade partnership between
Asia’s two largest economies. Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has denied the existence of any territorial dispute and
vowed no compromise.  Demonstrations in China turned violent last month as angry
protesters smashed Japanese-branded cars and torched  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  dealerships, while  Fast
Retailing Co. (9983) , owner of the Uniqlo clothing brand, closed its
outlets in Beijing to avoid mob attacks.  Tensions between the two countries escalated after Japan
purchased the islands a day after Noda met with Chinese
President  Hu Jintao  on the sidelines of the APEC meeting in
Vladivostok, Russia, last month.  ‘Emotional Criticisms’  “China felt Noda is not a trustworthy person,” said Kato,
73, who was part of a Japanese delegation to China last month.
“If Japan doesn’t make some special effort to defuse the
situation, it would be difficult to amend the relations.”  Kato met with Politburo member Jia Qinglin and attended a
banquet hosted by Tang Jiaxuan, former state councilor and
chairman of the China-Japan Friendship Association. Both Jia and
Tang expressed the importance of healthy ties between the two
countries, Kato said.  The current feud threatens the agreement between Chinese
premier Zhou Enlai and Japanese Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka 40
years ago to shelve the dispute over the islands, which paved
the way for the normalization of diplomatic ties, Kato said.  “If this is broken, ties in economy as well as politics
will fall apart,” Kato said. “Bad economic data is just
beginning to show.”  China Slowdown  China’s services industry expanded the least in more than a
year, a report showed yesterday, underscoring a slowdown that
spurred the  Asian Development Bank  to lower its 2012 regional
growth estimate.  Political transitions in both nations may prolong what’s
become the worst diplomatic crisis since at least 2005. Hu is
poised to hand power to the next generation of China’s leaders
next month, forecast to be led by current Vice President  Xi
Jinping . Noda faces elections as soon as this year and the LDP
last month chose as its leader to be ex-premier Shinzo Abe, who
advocates building on the islands to assert sovereignty.  Kato said he is unclear what Xi’s foreign policies will be
or whether a possible future Japanese government led by Abe is
able to break the impasse.  “If Japan treats the bilateral relations seriously and
carefully, the situation could turn better,” said Kato, a vocal
opponent of former Prime Minister  Junichiro Koizumi ’s annual
visits to the Yasukuni Shrine, where convicted war criminals are
honored along with other war dead.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  