-- Japan Political Shifts Expose BOJ to Demands for Action: Economy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-10-04T08:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/japan-s-political-shifts-expose-boj-to-extra-demands-for-action.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  faces increased
pressure to step up easing in coming weeks as political
leadership changes and pessimism among manufacturers fuel calls
for more aggressive action to end deflation and revive growth.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and fellow BOJ policy makers are
meeting for the first time since Seiji Maehara was named economy
minister Oct. 1 and Shinzo Abe became leader of the opposition
 Liberal Democratic Party . Maehara is pushing the BOJ to consider
buying foreign bonds and said today he plans to tomorrow attend
the second day of the BOJ’s meeting, the first minister to do so
since 2003. Abe advocates “bold easing.”  The calls reflect mounting signs  Japan ’s economy is in a
contraction, the limited fiscal scope for politicians to boost
growth and jockeying for support ahead of elections. While the
BOJ is projected to leave policy unchanged tomorrow after
expanding its asset-purchase fund last month, the political
shift underscores forecasts for further BOJ steps by year-end.  “It’s a vicious circle,” said  Hideo Kumano , chief
economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in  Tokyo  and a
former central bank official. “The BOJ is working hard to show
its efforts to lawmakers, rather than deciding policies based on
economic developments. Politicians find BOJ policies aren’t
helping the economy, and they get frustrated.”  Kumano doesn’t expect the BOJ to ease at this meeting,
saying the bank may act at the end of the month if the yen
appreciates “significantly.” Nomura Securities Co., RBS
Securities Japan Ltd., and Citigroup Inc. are among those
forecasting more stimulus by the end of October.  Contraction Forecasts  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  is down about 14 percent from
this year’s high in March, after gaining 0.9 percent today.
Morgan Stanley and BNP Paribas expect Japan’s economy to shrink
for two consecutive quarters through the end of December.
Exports are sinking, a boost from car purchase subsidies is
fading, and strength in the yen is hitting producers. Large
manufacturers became more pessimistic last quarter, a BOJ report
showed Oct. 1.  Readings on the global economy today will include U.S. data
including jobless claims, factory orders and the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index, while the  European Central Bank  and Bank
of England are due to announce policy decisions.  In Japan, Koriki Jojima, the newly installed finance
minister, said yesterday that he wanted the central bank to
implement monetary policy as “boldly as needed” and that the
need for easing depends on the state of the economy.  It’s not only the political landscape that’s changing --the
central bank is due for a once-in-five-years leadership change
early next year as the terms of Shirakawa and his two deputy
governors end, opening up the possibility of replacements who
are more aggressive on easing.  ‘Dove’ Prospects  Abe’s “hard line against the BOJ” could result in the
ruling party agreeing to name a “dove” for Shirakawa’s role to
secure parliamentary approval for the nomination, Chotaro Morita, a strategist for at Barclays Plc in Tokyo, said
yesterday. Polls indicate that Abe’s party may win an election
that incumbent Noda has pledged to call “soon.”  Public support for the LDP was up 11.1 percentage points
from a month earlier at 30.4 percent, a Kyodo News poll showed
this week. Support for Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s ruling
 Democratic Party  of Japan was down 0.6 of a percentage point to
12.3 percent.  ‘Political Judgment’  Minutes released this year of a BOJ meeting a decade ago
show decision making is vulnerable to political pressure. The
February 2002 policy decision came after then Finance Minister
Masajuro Shiokawa said he wanted the bank to increase monthly
purchases of  government bonds  and former Prime Minister
 Junichiro Koizumi  said he wanted “courageous monetary policy to
defeat deflation.”  BOJ Deputy Governor Sakuya Fujiwara and board member Miyako Suda said they accepted the government’s request while not
seeing much economic need.  “In theory, I think we don’t need it but as a political
judgment I can accept an increase of the monthly bond purchases
by 200 billion yen ($2.5 billion) as the government requested,”
Suda said. It was “very annoying” that the government
representatives should make such a proposal publicly, instead of
at a monetary policy meeting, she said.  All 20 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  expect the bank
to keep its policy unchanged tomorrow. Naka Matsuzawa, chief
strategist at Nomura Securities, said that the deterioration in
economic conditions isn’t bad enough to justify back-to-back
easing after the BOJ last month added 10 trillion yen to its
asset-purchase plan.  ‘Bold’ Easing  Signaling frustration with the BOJ, incoming Economy
Minister Maehara said Oct. 2 that his attendance at the policy
meetings “is something that could happen” if he judges central
bank actions to be insufficient. The BOJ says no minister has
attended a policy meeting since April 2003. The opposition’s
Abe, meanwhile, wants an  inflation rate  of 3 percent, up from
the BOJ’s current 1 percent goal.  Noda pledged to defeat deflation within one year in his
successful campaign to be re-elected as party leader last month.
In a sign of the distance that policy makers must travel to meet
that goal, prices excluding fresh food slid 0.3 in August,
matching the steepest decline in 16 months.  “Law makers are desperate to achieve something before
elections potentially in coming months,” said Shuichi Obata,
senior economist at Nomura Securities in Tokyo. That means the
BOJ is “very likely to be forced to ease again” as early as
the end of this month.  Paring Profits  Economic weakness is dragging on corporate earnings after
output fell the most in three months in August.  Kobe Steel Ltd. (5406) 
has cut its full-year operating profit forecast by 40 percent,
citing a deceleration in the Chinese economy.  Sony Corp. (6758) ,
Japan’s biggest consumer electronics exporter, last month had
its  credit rating  lowered by  Standard & Poor’s  on concern over
the Tokyo-based company’s earnings outlook.  Sustained strength in the nation’s currency is hurting
exporters. The yen was at 78.55 per dollar as of 5:37 p.m. in
Tokyo, about 4 percent from the postwar high of 75.35 reached in
October 2011.  Takehiko Nakao, the nation’s top currency official, said
yesterday in an interview that Japan’s stance on intervening in
the  currency market  is unchanged after the Cabinet reshuffle
that saw Jojima appointed.  “The yen’s recent appreciation is one-sided and doesn’t
reflect the state of the Japanese economy,” Jojima said in a
separate interview. “We are ready to take bold action, and of
course we will explain our view on this issue to the G-7,” he
said, referring to a meeting of the Group of Seven nations in
Tokyo next week.  Mr Yen  Not everyone thinks that Japan should seek to contain the
currency, with Eisuke Sakakibara, the former Ministry of Finance
official known as Mr Yen, this week describing such efforts as
pointless.  “Japan shouldn’t intervene,” Sakakibara said in an
interview in Tokyo on Oct. 2. “The U.S. is against it, so it
wouldn’t be effective. It’s not like 1995.”  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  Australia  reported
August retail sales that were below economists’ estimates, while
a gauge of  service industries  rose to a seven-month high in
India.  The  Bank of England  is expected to keep benchmark interest
rates and its  asset purchase target  unchanged at a meeting
today, according to the median estimates of economists in
Bloomberg News surveys. The European Central Bank will keep its
 key interest rate  at a record low of 0.75 percent, another
survey indicates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  