-- Jones Day, Paul Hastings, Akin Gump, S&C: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-10-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/jones-day-paul-hastings-akin-gump-s-c-business-of-law.html
Jones Day hired Locke McMurray from
 Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc., where he held the title of
managing director, head of derivatives, legal. He will be a
partner in the financial institutions litigation and regulation
practice in the  New York  office.  McMurray will focus his practice on derivatives
transactions. At Lehman Brothers, he directed legal strategy and
provided advice on unwinding derivatives portfolios with more
than six thousand counterparties, the firm said. He also
negotiated settlements and assignments and worked on the
development and implementation of legal strategies concerning
the status of unterminated transactions, set-off and derivatives
valuations.  “Locke is a significant addition to the practice and his
arrival adds to the firm’s depth on legal and strategic issues
concerning complex financial instruments, including identifying,
managing and, where appropriate, litigating, risks concerning
complex financial products on behalf of our financial-
institution clients,” Jay Tambe, co-head of  Jones Day ’s
financial institutions litigation and regulation practice
practice said in a statement.  Jones Day year has more than 2,400 lawyers in 35 offices
worldwide.  Sheppard Mullin Hires Two in Chicago, One in San Francisco  Bradley C. Graveline and Daniel G. Rosenberg joined
Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP as partners in the
Chicago office. Graveline is part of the intellectual property
practice group from Winston & Strawn LLP, and Rosenberg joins
the business trial practice group from K&L Gates LLP, the firm
said. IP litigation partner Laura Chapman also joined Sheppard
Mullin this week, moving from Foley & Lardner LLP.  “Brad brings specific expertise handling significant
pharmaceutical Hatch-Waxman and medical device matters,
including first chair trial successes,” Nick Setty, co-chair of
Sheppard Mullin’s Intellectual Property practice group. “He
bolsters and adds depth to our growing ANDA practice and to our
new Chicago office.”  “Dan’s general commercial litigation practice specialties
encompass construction and insurance law. His significant
construction industry expertise includes advising on
construction risk, negotiation and drafting of contracts, and
litigating disputes,” Fred Puglisi, co-chair of Sheppard
Mullin’s Business Trial practice group said.  Chapman has experience handling, managing and litigating
multi-party intellectual property, breach of contract, business
fraud, unfair competition, trade secret, non-compete, employee,
and customer solicitation cases. She advises clients on
intellectual property disputes and clearance matters, the firm
said.  The hires bring to 14 the number of attorney in Sheppard
Mullin’s Chicago office, which opened in July. Sheppard Mullin’s
IP practice group has grown to 85 attorneys firmwide and the
firm’s business trial practice includes 200 attorneys. The firm
has almost 600 attorneys in 16 offices in the U.S.,  Europe  and
 Asia .  Paul Hastings Hires Antitrust Partner in Brussels  Paul Hastings  LLP hired Andreas Stargard as an antitrust
and competition partner in the Brussels office. Stargard,
previously with Howrey LLP, will work with both the U.S. and
European offices of the firm.  Stargard focuses on global competition law. He represents
companies in cartel investigations, merger approvals, civil
litigation, and monopoly cases.  Paul Hastings has lawyers in 19 offices in Asia, Europe,
and the U.S.  Gardere Hires Locke Lord Tax Attorney in Houston  Gardere Wynne Sewell LLP added James Howard, formerly of
Locke Lord LLP, as a partner in the firm’s Houston office. His
practice will focus on international and business tax,
securities, and finance.  As a member of Gardere’s Tax Practice Group, Howard will
provide the full range of international and domestic tax
services to clients in the oilfield service, private equity, and
real estate industries, among others, the firm said. His primary
focus will be evaluating tax consequences for companies and
individuals, including those related to debt restructuring,
repatriation, and the formation of companies, partnerships, and
joint ventures, according to the firm.  Gardere Wynne Sewell LLP has more than 250 lawyers in four
offices in  Texas  and Mexico City.  Deals  Akin Gump Advises EAccess in $2.3 Billion Sale to Softbank  Softbank Corp. (9984) , Japan’s third-largest mobile phone company,
will pay about 180 billion yen ($2.3 billion) for smaller rival
 eAccess (9427)  Ltd., which was advised by  Akin Gump  Strauss Hauer &
Feld LLP and Japanese firm Anderson, Mori & Tomotsune. Japanese
firm Mori Hamada & Matsumoto advised Softbank.  Gregory Puff, corporate partner and head of Akin Gump’s
Hong Kong office and Asia practice, led the team advising
eAccess, supported by corporate partner Zach Wittenberg. New
York tax partners Stuart Leblang and Ron Grabov-Nardini also
helped on the deal.  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP represents Goldman Sachs Japan Co.
Ltd. in its capacity as financial adviser to eAccess Ltd. The
S&C corporate/mergers and acquisitions team includes partners
Garth Bray, Keiji Hatano and Stephen Kotran.  EAccess, which counts Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as its
 biggest shareholder , surged by its daily exchange-imposed limit
of 4,000 yen, or 21 percent, to 23,000 yen as of yesterday’s
close in  Tokyo , after gaining 26 percent Oct. 1. The deal valued
EAccess shares at 52,000 yen each at the Oct. 1 closing prices.  Softbank has lured subscribers as the country’s first
carrier to offer Apple’s iPhone and iPad, narrowing the gap in
user numbers with  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) , the largest mobile phone
service, and  KDDI Corp. (9433) , the No. 2 provider. The iPhone 5 went
on sale Sept. 21.  Goldman Sachs owns about 31 percent of eAccess, according
to Sayaka Iida, a spokeswoman for eAccess.  EAccess will be converted into a wholly owned unit and will
be delisted Feb. 25.  For more, click here.  News  Sarkozy’s Lawyer Questioned in Campaign-Finance Investigation  Former French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s lawyer was
questioned yesterday by investigators looking into allegations
of campaign-finance violations.  Thierry Herzog said he was asked about confidential
conversations he had with his client, whom he has advised on
numerous legal matters. He refused to answer, saying it would
violate his professional obligations.  He appeared “out of respect for justice and the police”
and against the advice of the Paris bar association, Herzog said
in a telephone interview. “They wanted to know what I spoke
about with my client, who is Mr. Sarkozy. I’ve never seen a
lawyer asked to reveal what his client told him -- it’s a
scandal.”  Police searched Sarkozy’s office and home in July as part
of the investigation into funding of his 2007 election campaign.
The investigation resulted from what was originally a family
dispute over  L’Oreal SA (OR)  heiress  Liliane Bettencourt ’s fortune.
The campaign-finance aspect is rooted in allegations by former
employees of France’s richest woman that envelopes of cash were
passed on to aid in his campaign.  Sarkozy’s former chief of staff and two former officials in
his justice ministry were also questioned as witnesses
yesterday, as well as the prosecutor who led the initial
Bettencourt inquiry,  Agence France-Presse  said citing an unnamed
source close to the probe.  A spokeswoman for the Bordeaux prosecutor, who is
conducting the investigation, declined to comment.  Herzog said his meeting lasted about two hours and that he
was unable to comment on any other people questioned yesterday.  ‘Rebecca’ Is Dead, Suspects Still Missing in $12 Million Fiasco  The lawyer representing a producer of “ Rebecca ” released
the transcript of an e-mail that, he said, was responsible for
the collapse of the $12 million musical.  The story of the alleged e-mail -- and of “Rebecca”
itself -- provided the latest twist in one of Broadway’s most
riveting backstage dramas in memory. Even the legendary flop
“Moose Murders” at least made it to opening night before
promptly closing.  Ronald Russo , a lawyer with  Schlam Stone & Dolan  and a
former federal prosecutor, represents Ben Sprecher, the doomed
show’s lead producer with Louise Forlenza.  Russo said that the e-mail had been turned over to
authorities who are investigating, but the identity of the
authorities has proven to be as elusive as “Paul Abrams,”
whose purported death last summer, the producers said at the
time, had led to a $4.5 million shortfall in the show’s budget.  Evidence of Abrams’s life or death has yet to be found.  “It is a near certainty that the man Paul Abrams was made
up several months ago to defraud other investors as a
placeholder,” according to a transcript of the e-mail released
by Russo, “while Mr. Sprecher continued to try and raise
money.”  Russo said the e-mail was sent to someone prepared to
invest an eleventh-hour seven figures to save the show. The text
doesn’t identify the sender or recipient.  “It compromises the investigation” to disclose who’s
conducting it, Russo said, adding that Sprecher is “cooperating
100 percent.”  The alleged e-mail warns the unidentified investor against
putting money in the show, warning that “there will be charges
of fraud, lawsuits, etc.”  Russo said that the recipient of the e-mail, who pulled out
of the show after receiving the electronic missive, was to have
remained anonymous.  “The only way that he could have been learned was hacking
my client’s computer,” Russo said. “There are dozens of
untruths in the e-mail sent to sabotage, it turns out
successfully, ‘Rebecca.’”  “Ben has been terribly victimized and I hope to establish
that,” Russo said.  Reached Oct. 1 on his cell phone, Philip J. Smith, chairman
of the  Shubert Organization , said it was his understanding that
“Ben turned the e-mail over to the Feds.”  Shubert, an investor in the show as well as its landlord,
would not have any comment on the collapse of “Rebecca,” based
on the 1938 Daphne Du Maurier novel about a young bride haunted
by her predecessor. Nor would he specify how much Broadway’s
biggest landlord had invested in the musical.  The show was to be directed by Francesca Zambello and
Michael Blakemore, following extended runs in various European
cities. A planned opening last spring was canceled when Sprecher
and Forlenza, known legally as general partners, were still
searching for money even after the marquee had gone up.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Lithuania Hires Swiss Law Firm for Snoras Case, BNS Reports  The Lithuanian Finance Ministry hired Swiss law firm Lalive
and the Baltic law firm Sorainen Partners to defend the country
against claims arising from the takeover of Bankas Snoras AB,
the  Baltic News Service  reported.  The ministry and the law firms signed a three-year contract
worth 10 million litai ($3.7 million) on Sept. 24, the newswire
said.  Vladimir Antonov , the former majority owner of Snoras who
is fighting extradition from  London  and civil charges over the
lender’s bankruptcy, filed a suit against  Lithuania  over the
takeover on May 7, BNS reported.  Antonov says the charges against him are politically
motivated and discriminatory, according to BNS.  Litigation  Pennsylvania Judge Bars Enforcement of Voter-ID Law for 2012  A  Pennsylvania  judge barred the state from enforcing a
Republican-backed requirement for voter photo-identification in
the coming election, saying it’s logistically impossible to make
IDs available to everyone who needs one.  Commonwealth Court Judge Robert Simpson yesterday ruled
that while election officials can request an ID on Election Day,
voters without one can cast ballots that will be counted. The
enjoined law would have allowed voters without required ID to
cast provisional ballots to be counted only if they returned
with photo documentation within six days.  David Gersch, an attorney with Arnold & Porter LLP who
represented the  American Civil Liberties Union  in the case, said
of the ruling, “In many respects, it’s a victory.”  Attorneys for the state are reviewing Simpson’s ruling,
 Nils Frederiksen , a spokesman for the Pennsylvania Attorney
General, said. Frederiksen and Nick Winkler, a spokesman for the
Department of State, declined to comment on a possible appeal to
the state  Supreme Court .  It remains to be seen whether the ACLU, the Advancement
Project and other plaintiffs will appeal Simpson’s decision to
uphold the state’s campaign publicizing the requirements of the
new law, Gersch said.  Pennsylvania is the third state, following Texas and
Wisconsin, where courts have rejected voter-ID laws passed by
Republican-dominated legislatures since President  Barack Obama ’s
2008 victory. Supporters of the laws say they’re needed to
prevent voter fraud. Opponents contend the measures are aimed at
suppressing the votes of lower-income people and the elderly who
may be more inclined to vote for Democrats.  Enacted in March, the Pennsylvania law requires prospective
voters to present a state-issued ID, or an acceptable
alternative such as a military ID.  Jerry Goldfeder, an election law expert with New York-based
Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP, said in an e-mail “there will
undoubtedly be confusion at the polls” because of the photo-ID
issue.  The case is  Applewhite v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
330-md-2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 