-- Kindle Paperwhite Shines Brightly: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-10-03T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/kindle-paperwhite-shines-brightly-rich-jaroslovsky.html
When Amazon.com CEO  Jeff Bezos 
recently called the new Kindle Fire HD “the best tablet at any
price,” he ended up triggering a spate of oh-no-it-isn’t
reviews.  So you might be skeptical of his similarly extravagant
claims about the Kindle Paperwhite, the latest entry in Amazon’s
budget-priced line of e-book readers. You shouldn’t be.  Within its humble category, which features a six-inch
monochrome E Ink screen rather than vivid color displays used in
costlier tablets like the Fire HD and iPad, the Paperwhite lays
fair claim to the title of best-in-class.  Like the other gray-scale Kindles, the Paperwhite is
feather-weight (7.5 ounces) and compact, perfect for tossing
into a briefcase, purse or gym bag. It can store up to 1,100
books locally, plus has free cloud storage on  Amazon (AMZN) ’s servers.
New titles from the company’s enormous catalogue of e-books can
be downloaded within a minute or two.  Monochrome e-readers have always been easier than color
tablets to use in sunlight. The downside has been their need for
an external light source in darker conditions. The Paperwhite,
which starts at $119, is the first Kindle with a built-in light,
so you can take it everywhere.  Sleeping Partner  That’s a particular blessing for read-in-bed types, who now
don’t have to worry about bothering a sleeping partner. Amazon
isn’t first to the self-illuminated party:  Barnes & Noble (BKS) 
introduced its Nook Simple Touch with GlowLight last spring. But
the Paperwhite does a better job.  Most important to me, after a week or so of using the
Kindle, is how evenly the light is distributed. The Nook’s
lights left some noticeable dark spots on the screen,
particularly across the top few lines of text. By contrast, the
Kindle’s front-lit screen creates a constant glow that can be
adjusted up or down through a setting accessed by tapping the
top of a page.  Acknowledging that it’s counterintuitive, Amazon suggests
setting the light at a low level in a dark room and making it
brighter in a bright room. But I had my best results by cranking
the light up pretty high and just leaving it there, except in
the very brightest of outdoor conditions.  More Pixels  The light isn’t the only improvement Amazon has made to the
Kindle’s touch-screen display. It says it has also increased the
pixel count by 62 percent, which makes for sharper text and
pictures, increased contrast by 25 percent and introduced new
typography. Whatever it’s done, the Paperwhite has the crispest
images I’ve seen on an  E Ink (8069)  device.  One benefit of monochrome e-readers is low power
consumption. Even with its light, the Paperwhite claims to go
eight weeks between charges when used for half an hour a day. I
haven’t had it long enough to test that, but the broader point
 -- that you needn’t worry about having an electrical outlet
nearby in normal use -- is a valid one.  Speaking of electrical outlets, you’ll quickly discover one
way Amazon has gotten the price down. The Kindle doesn’t come
with a power adapter: It’s $10 extra. Without it, there’s a USB
cable you can use either with a computer or your cell-phone
charger.  Annoyed Users  I successfully recharged the Paperwhite using the small
cube that comes with an iPhone. Still, some users will
undoubtedly be annoyed.  Even more may be exasperated by another Amazon tactic:
“special offers,” also known as advertising. The ads -- mostly
promos for books and special Amazon shopping deals -- appear on
the lock screen when the device is asleep and also across the
bottom of the home screen. If you don’t want to see them, you
have to pay an extra $20 for a no-ads model.  A few other corners have been cut as well. For instance,
there’s no headphone jack on the Paperwhite, so the text-to-
speech feature on previous Kindles has gone away. On the other
hand, the Paperwhite offers one extra-cost feature that,
depending on how you use it, may be well worth paying for: 3G
service.  For $179, or $199 without ads, you get no-additional-cost
service over  AT&T (T) ’s network whenever you’re out of Wi-Fi range.
Anyone who’s ever been stuck on an airport tarmac and run out of
things to read will find it a godsend.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Manuela Hoelterhoff on  theater  and
 Jason Harper  on  cars .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 