-- Kleiner Says Partner Ellen Pao Will Transition Out of Firm
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-10-03T20:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/kleiner-says-partner-ellen-pao-will-transition-out-of-firm.html
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the
U.S. venture capital firm that provided startup financing to
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , said it’s transitioning partner
Ellen Pao out of the partnership.  Pao sued the firm in May, alleging Kleiner treated female
employees unfairly by promoting and compensating them less than
men. She posted a comment on Quora, a question-and-answer
website, yesterday that said she had been fired from the firm
and was asked not to return.  “Ms. Pao’s Quora post is misleading,” Christina Lee, a
spokeswoman for Kleiner, said in an e-mail. “She remains an
employee of the firm. Because of long-standing issues having no
relationship or bearing on the litigation, Kleiner approached
Ms. Pao to facilitate her transition, over an extended period of
time, out of the firm.”  Pao sued the firm May 10, saying she was unfairly treated
after she complained about sexual harassment. She said in her
complaint that she “succumbed” to the advances of a married
Kleiner junior partner in 2006 who had pressured her to have a
sexual relationship. After she ended it, the co-worker, who was
later promoted to senior partner, retaliated against her over
the next five years, she said.  Male junior partners at Kleiner were allowed to add
multiple board positions and investment sponsorships each year
while female junior partners were limited to one, Pao alleged in
her complaint in state court in San Francisco. Female employees
were awarded smaller shares of the firm’s profits from
investment funds it manages than those given to male employees,
Pao said.  Online Posting  On Quora , Pao said she was fired from her job and asked to
immediately leave the firm.  “I have been terminated from my job at KPCB,” Pao said on
Quora. “On Monday afternoon, senior management told me to clean
out my office, leave, and not come back.”  John Doerr , Kleiner’s lead partner, has said Pao’s lawsuit
is “without merit,” based on the results of an independent
investigation that found the firm doesn’t discriminate on the
basis of gender. Kleiner took “great care to treat this
situation seriously, swiftly and with integrity,” he said in a
May 30  statement .  In July, Kleiner lost attempts to have Pao, an employee
there since 2005, move her sex-discrimination claims to
arbitration rather than proceed with a state lawsuit. California
Judge Harold Kahn said he didn’t agree with Kleiner’s position
that Pao’s claims had to be sent to arbitration because no
arbitration agreement existed between her and the firm.  The case is Pao v. Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers LLC,
CGC-12-520719, California Superior Court ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  