-- N.J.’s Vanished Public Jobs Impede Economic Recovery, Study Says
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-10-03T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/n-j-s-vanished-public-jobs-impede-economic-recovery-study-says.html
New Jersey ’s economic recovery is
hindered by the elimination of 61,200 local and state government
jobs and Republican Governor  Chris Christie ’s spending cuts,
according to a report issued today.  The 2011 average unemployment rate of 9.3 percent would
have been 8 percent with those public positions untouched,
according to the study by New Jersey Policy Perspective, a
nonpartisan Trenton nonprofit that analyzes issues affecting
residents with low to moderate incomes.  “Cuts to the public sector make New Jersey a less
attractive state for businesses to locate because they want good
schools and safe communities,” the study said. “Eliminating
public jobs also contributes to the shrinking of New Jersey’s
middle class and increasing income inequality.”  During and since the 18-month recession that ended in June
2009, governments across the nation cut jobs as  tax revenue 
fell. The number of public jobs in 2011 shrank by 1.3 percent,
about 280,000 positions, according to data from the U.S.
Department of Commerce. More than half those positions were with
local and state governments.  New Jersey has the fourth-highest jobless rate in the U.S.
The August tally,  9.9 percent , was the state’s worst in 35
years. The national  rate  was 8.1 percent that month.  “The trend in unemployment is beyond dispute,” wrote
Raymond Castro, a senior policy analyst.  Government jobs returned to New Jersey after past
recessions, the study said. This time, their failure to reappear
is stopping companies from hiring, too, the report said.  Wounded Feelings  Christie, 50, a first-term Republican who took office in
January 2010, reduced spending, cut aid to municipalities and
schools and signed a law limiting annual property-tax increases
to 2 percent. Government job losses that began with the
recession in December 2007 continued through 2011, totaling
61,200, the report said.  The study seized on Christie’s “public criticism” of
teachers and other workers, saying it increases low morale and
the deterioration of services.  Christie, who favors tax cuts to drive job growth, failed
to win the Democratic-controlled Legislature’s approval for one
for the current fiscal year.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the state’s credit outlook to
negative from stable last month because it considered the
administration’s revenue projection too optimistic.  Revenue in July and August, the first months of the fiscal
year, was 4.9 percent below targets in Christie’s $31.7 billion
budget, according to state Treasury Department figures.  Revenue must rise 8.2 percent to balance Christie’s 2013
spending plan, and to make up a shortfall in the year ended June
30, the legislature’s chief budget officer,  David Rosen , said
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  