-- Netflix Gains Most Since July on Customer Satisfaction
-- B y   N i a m h   R i n g
-- 2012-10-03T20:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/netflix-gains-most-since-july-on-customer-satisfaction.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  rose the most in almost
three months after a Citigroup Inc. analyst said the video-
subscription service has improved its customer satisfaction.  The  shares  advanced 11 percent to $62.58 at the close in
 New York , for the biggest daily gain since July 5. The  Los
Gatos , California-based company’s stock has dropped 9.7 percent
this year.  Netflix has grappled with customer-satisfaction issues
since increasing prices in 2011 for users who both stream videos
and get DVDs by mail and an attempt that year to separate those
offerings. A Citigroup survey last month found that 48 percent
of customers are “very or extremely satisfied,” compared with
about 45 percent in the first and second quarter.  “Netflix’s competitive position continues to rise,”  Mark Mahaney , a Citigroup analyst in  San Francisco , wrote in an
investor note yesterday. “The percentage of respondents listing
Netflix as a top destination has increased” from 25 percent in
the second quarter to 35 percent now.  “The perceived streaming content selection appears to have
improved,” Mahaney wrote. Thirty-seven percent believe that it
has gotten better in the past 12 months, while 16 percent say it
has worsened, according to his note. Mahaney rates the shares
buy/high risk.  The survey included about 3,800 U.S. Internet users,
including more than 1,200 current and 700 past Netflix
subscribers, Citigroup said.  Netflix shares have been under pressure amid concerns that
new competition will hamper its subscriber growth. The company
in July raised doubts about whether it can meet its full-year
target of adding 7 million U.S. users. Chief Executive Officer
 Reed Hastings  said then that the goal would be “challenging”
if growth in third quarter failed to meet internal targets.  The company during the year-end holiday period will
probably face competition from Verizon Communications Inc.’s
online venture with Coinstar Inc.’s Redbox. Online retailer
Amazon.com Inc. also has been rapidly adding content to its
Prime streaming service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niamh Ring in New York at 
 nring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  