-- Nets’ $1 Billion Home Hawks Great Cuban, Bad Beer: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-10-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/nets-1-billion-home-hawks-great-cuban-bad-beer-review.html
“Everyone’s from  Brooklyn  tonight,”
proclaimed Jay-Z during a concert to inaugurate  Barclays Center ,
Atlantic Avenue’s $1 billion home of the Nets basketball
franchise.  In return, fans toasted the rapper with plastic cups of
Budweiser, a St. Louis beer owned by a Belgian-Brazilian
multinational corporation.  There was also plenty of lager, including Coors Light,
Miller Lite, Amstel Light, Stella Artois and Heineken, to go
around.  Finding a Brooklyn brew at this Brooklyn stadium, whose
concessions are run by the Chicago-based  Levy Restaurants , is
more complicated.  I’ll forgive such Second City influences because much of
the grub is good enough. With Greenpoint tacos and Smith Street
brats, Barclays Center is a respectable, if not necessarily
memorable, tribute to Kings County’s diverse food scene.  Still, there’s something distinctly unsettling when the
stadium outpost of Cafe Habana, a fine Carroll Gardens
restaurant, offers only Bud, Bud Light or  Coors Light. (TAP)  ($7.50-
$9.50).  If you want a Brooklyn Lager, you’ll have to queue up at a
separate beer cart (where, understandably, the lines are twice
as long). It’s only at the corporate suite level where I found
proper access to New York beers like Southampton and
Captain Lawrence ($35-$39 the six-pack).  A spokesperson for Levy Restaurants tells me that
Brooklyn’s Sixpoint is available on tap, but I didn’t see that
brew after multiple laps around the arena over two visits.  Small Pop  Fountain sodas, regardless of your socioeconomic status, is
available in a single sixteen-ounce cup, as part of an early
compliance with the city’s big-soda ban.  Barclays isn’t quite the ambassador for  New York  food as is
Citi Field or Madison Square Garden. But it gets the job done.
Here’s my report from Atlantic Avenue’s newest hotspot:  Calexico: This “Cal-Mex” chain, with locations in Red
Hook and Greenpoint, knows how to make a proper fish taco, with
a gentle flake and a delicate crust ($14). Thing is, what works
in a restaurant doesn’t necessarily work in a stadium. The salsa
drips out the rear the second you pick up the snack food. Taco
Bell would argue that the correct antidote to this architectural
issue is a burrito. We agree.  What’s worse, Calexico shovels out bland guacamole ($7.75)
that’s been chilled into an ice-cream like paste. The better
call is a crispy, gooey cheese quesadilla, with smoky chipotle
dipping sauce ($8.75).  Wicked ’Wiches  Fatty ‘Cue: Zak Pelaccio, who runs a very good restaurant
of the same name in  Manhattan ’s West Village, largely fails with
his Barclay’s effort. Brisket and pork sandwiches are nearly
indistinguishable due to thin layers of over-sauced meats and
thick slabs of dry bread. The four-cheese mac ($6.25), a product
of Levy Restaurants, is cooked way past the point of al dente,
with a flavor as monochromatic as a high school cafeteria
version.  Cafe Habana: The Cuban ($12.50) is everything this sandwich
should be, a leftover mash of pulled pork, gooey Swiss cheese,
ham and pickles. Corn-on-the-cob, coated in cheese and chili,
sells out fast, because it’s also excellent.  Scotto’s Balls  Fresco by Scotto: Yankee Stadium sells Parm’s epic meatball
sandwiches. Barlcays Center gives us chicken meatball sliders
($9.75) by Fresco. The Scotto balls are merely decent. The sauce
has just enough acid and the patty is fluffy enough to let you
know it’s not a burger.  A side of zucchini chips serves as an efficient delivery
mechanism for gorgonzola cream sauce.  The Butcher Shop: Michael DeAngelis is responsible for the
fine meat in this sausage and pepper sandwich ($11.75); the
pinwheel shape of the meat keeps things manageable when eating
with one hand. Don’t look for the sweet fennel flavor as at a
good restaurant, but expect a hearty, nourishing dish. The
appropriate pairing is Buffalo tater tots, an excellent
vegetarian response to the namesake chicken dish ($6).  L&B Spumoni Gardens: I have to wonder what the owners of
this  storied pizzeria  in Gravesend would say if they saw their
pies shriveling away under a heat lamp, as they do at Barclays.
This travesty costs $6.  Flightless Wings  Buffalo Boss: Jay-Z’s cousin is bankrolling this Brooklyn-
based  chain , which touts hormone-free, organic wings.  Problem is, the stadium shack only sells boneless breast
meat doused in hot sauce. The whole point of a Buffalo wing is
to use vinegar and spice to balance out the richness of fatty
chicken skin and the meat underneath. Buffalo Boss uses no dark
meat, no discernible skin, and no wing. Result? No good.  Brooklyn Bangers: The cheddar brat lacks clean yet cheesy
flavors that makes Andrew Carmellini’s sausages a hit at Madison
Square Garden. And the “brisket banger” tastes like any other
kielbasa on a bun. We should expect more from a Michelin-starred
chef.  Clinton Hill Grill: This luxury suite concession took about
10 minutes to make my cheeseburger ($9.75), which was carbonized
well past the point of well done and which mimicked the texture
of gravel. The rich don’t always have it better.  Barclays Center is at 620 Atlantic Avenue. Information: +1-
212-359-6387;  http://www.barclayscenter.com/ .  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina and Lili Rosboch on
 art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 