-- New Jersey Consumers to Pay NRG $838.9 Million for Power Plant
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-10-03T21:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/new-jersey-consumers-to-pay-nrg-838-9-million-for-power-plant.html
A power plant proposed by  NRG Energy
Inc. (NRG)  in New Jersey will cost utility customers $838.9 million
over a 14-year period as part of a state effort to ensure
adequate electricity generation at times of peak demand.  The 660.1-megawatt plant in Old Bridge would receive so-
called capacity payments starting at $328.77 per megawatt a day
from June 2016 through May 2017 before falling as low as $215.78
in later years, according to a document e-mailed today by Greg
Reinert, a spokesman for the New Jersey Board of Public
Utilities.  Capacity payments are set through an  annual auction  held by
PJM Interconnection LLC, which manages the 13-state grid in the
eastern U.S. The auction is based on PJM’s estimate of total
power needs over a 12-month period. Plants in the region bid for
the capacity, with the lowest bids accepted first. The  New
Jersey  contracts make up for the difference if the PJM capacity
price falls below the state’s guarantee.  PJM’s capacity price for northern New Jersey in last May’s
auction was set at $167.46 a megawatt a day for the year
starting June 2015, down 26 percent from the previous auction.  Old Bridge wasn’t selected through the PJM auction in May
2012 and NRG will be required to bid next spring under the terms
of the state contract, David Gaier, a spokesman for the company
in Princeton, said in an e-mail. NRG hasn’t broken ground yet on
the plant, he said.  Plant Construction  The company’s bid will have to be approved in the auction
next May for construction on the plant to start. Once the plant
begins to generate power under terms of its agreement with PJM,
the payments kick in. Capacity payments are a separate component
on customer bills from monthly usage costs.  The guaranteed payouts NRG is poised to receive are
“dramatically higher than market prices,” said Glen Thomas,
president of the PJM Providers Group in  King of Prussia ,
 Pennsylvania , a coalition of suppliers in the eastern U.S. power
market. “Rate payers aren’t on the hook for this yet.”  The plant would join projects from  Hess Corp. (HES)  and
Competitive Power Ventures LLC that were approved for $2.1
billion in capacity payments last year by the New Jersey
utilities board in Trenton, and which won slots in the capacity
last May.  The three plants, with combined capacity of 1,949
megawatts, would receive guaranteed payments totaling $2.94
billion, based on data from the board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  