-- Nexen Gains as Alberta Boosts Cnooc Bid
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-10-04T20:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/nexen-gains-as-alberta-boosts-cnooc-bid-corporate-canada.html
Nexen Inc. staged its biggest rally
since July, indicating  Cnooc Ltd’s (883)  $15.1 billion takeover offer
for the oil and gas producer is unaffected by demands from
Alberta to keep management and jobs in Canadian hands.  Alberta Premier Alison Redford requested the federal
government insure Calgary-based Nexen’s management and board
remain at least 50 percent Canadian. The provincial government
also wants Chinese state-owned Cnooc to maintain current
employment levels for five years instead of three and keep
capital spending plans intact, according to a person familiar
with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
discussions are confidential.  “At face value, it looks like really basic normal stuff,”
Alfredo Scialabba, a New York-based special situations analyst
for  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) , said in a telephone interview. “If it’s
just that, this wouldn’t really derail the deal.”  Nexen’s  stock  rose 1.1 percent yesterday to $25.22 in
Toronto, the biggest gain since the Cnooc bid was announced July
23, before falling today. It closed at $24.99 in Toronto.  The shares listed in New York rose 0.8 percent to $25.51
yesterday, narrowing the  difference  with Cnooc’s $27.50 per
share offer to the least since Sept. 17. They fell 0.1 percent
today to $25.48.  The request from Redford’s government came in a
recommendation provided to Industry Minister Christian Paradis
and the government’s investment review division.  Rising Supply  Alberta ’s conditions may increase costs and risks for Cnooc
at a time when oil-sands producers face a  rising supply  of North
American crude and a lack of pipelines threatens to stall sales.
Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s government is reviewing the bid
under the nation’s foreign takeover law, which specifies
transactions need to have a “net benefit” to the country in
order to win approval.  Redford’s government asked Cnooc to maintain workforce
levels for at least five years, to strengthen commitments to
keep capital spending plans intact and to clarify plans for
research and development, the person said. Alberta’s government
has indicated it would not object to the transaction if the
conditions were met.  “I don’t see any deal-breaker in this,” Scialabba said.  Premier Redford has said the transaction is beneficial,
said Jay O’Neill, her director of communications for Redford. He
declined to comment directly on the details of Alberta’s
submission to the federal government.  “We were asked for our position and we did submit that
position,” O’Neill said. “Our premier has been pretty clear in
terms of her discussions around the deal since it was first
announced and that there does appear to be significant benefit
not only for Alberta but also  Canada .”  Share Views  Asked about Alberta’s demands, Paradis told reporters today
the government consults provinces and other stakeholders in its
review. He also said the government will take as much time as
needed and an extension of the review is a possibility.  Under Canadian law, the government can unilaterally extend
the original 45-day review period by 30 days, and extend the
review further if Cnooc agrees. The government said Aug. 29 it
received the application.  In the July 23 announcement, Cnooc pledged to follow
through on Calgary-based Nexen’s capital spending plans and
maintain the company’s employment level and management, without
giving details or a time frame.  Cnooc has also promised to make Calgary the head office of
its North American operations, as well as list its common shares
on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  Steven MacKinnon, a Canadian spokesman for Cnooc, said the
company doesn’t comment on the regulatory process. Cnooc is
controlled by state-owned  China  National Offshore Oil Corp.,
which indirectly owns 64.4 percent of the company’s shares.  ‘High Likelihood’  “We are of the view this transaction has a high likelihood
of being approved because we think that it is on policy with the
Harper administration with respect to their energy policy,”
Catharine Sterritt, a Toronto-based risk arbitrage strategist at
Bank of Nova Scotia, said in a telephone interview. “It has
always been expected -- this is a very significant transaction -
- that there would be material undertakings being required and
those undertakings would always include employment, capex, and
environmental.”  Lawmakers in the House of Commons yesterday defeated a
motion put forward by the opposition New Democratic Party
calling on the government to hold public hearings into foreign
takeovers in the country’s energy sector by state-owned
enterprises. The NDP  said today  the government should reject the
transaction, citing concerns about whether Cnooc will protect
jobs, maintain environmental standards and keep the head office
in Canada.  National Priority  Harper has said selling more of the nation’s natural
resources to Asia is a  “national priority” and his government
has said Chinese investment in resources is welcome. China, the
world’s second-largest economy, is seeking greater access to
Canada’s oil sands, the world’s third-largest pool of reserves,
to support growth.  He told reporters today the bid raises tough policy issues
the government needs to consider.  “This particular transaction raises a range of difficult
policy questions, difficult forward-looking issues, and those
things will all be taken into account under the act in assessing
the net benefit of this investment,” Harper said. “We have
approved many transactions, we have significantly modified some,
and we have blocked some transactions.”  Seeks Opinions  While not bound by Redford’s recommendations, Canada
routinely seeks the opinion of provincial leaders as part of its
reviews. Opposition by Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall to  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s 2010 bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.
foreshadowed the federal government’s rejection of that
takeover.  Alberta’s push for firmer commitments from Cnooc may be an
attempt to shield the province should a slump in energy prices
encourage the company to change its plans.  Canada sued  U.S. Steel Corp. (X)  in 2009 over the steelmaker’s
2007 acquisition of Stelco Inc., saying it hadn’t complied with
pledges it made on production and employment. The company argued
a decline in economic conditions beyond its control caused a
downturn in its business and made it impossible for it to meet
the promises it made when it bought Stelco.  The government and the company settled last December, with
U.S. Steel agreeing to maintain operations in Canada until 2015
and make C$50 million ($50.7 million) in additional capital
investments.  Maintain Workforce  As part of the proposal by Cnooc, details of which have not
been made public, the Chinese company pledged 25 percent
Canadian composition of its board, the person said. The company
also said it would maintain Nexen’s workforce at no less than 80
percent of current levels for three years, they said, a
commitment the Albertan government wants to extend by two years.  Redford’s government is also recommending the federal
government receive firm commitments from Cnooc on meeting
environmental standards, the person said.  Nexen shareholders approved the bid on Sept. 20, with about
99 percent of those who voted casting ballots in favor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  