-- NHL Loses $100 Million With Cancellation of Preseason, Daly Says
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-10-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/nhl-loses-100-million-with-cancellation-of-preseason-daly-says.html
The  National Hockey League  lost
almost $100 million from the cancellation of the preseason,
Deputy Commissioner Bill Daly said.  The NHL locked out players Sept. 16 after failing to agree
with the National Hockey League Players’ Association on how to
split revenue, which reached a record $3.2 billion last season.
The league then canceled its preseason exhibition games.  The league and the players’ union made “no progress” in
two hours of meetings yesterday, Daly said in a video interview
on the NHL website.  “By losing the preseason, we probably have done close to
$100 million in damage to the business that’s not going to be
recouped,” Daly said. “We’re focused on what we can do to
minimize the damage.”  Union Executive Director Donald Fehr disputed the financial
impact of the dispute, saying the league failed to take into
account expenses that were saved by not putting on the games.  With eight days until the scheduled start of the season, no
further talks are planned between the sides. Fehr wants talks to
continue on how to divide hockey-related revenue. Daly said the
league is close to deciding whether to cancel games at the start
of the season.  “You should be constantly talking, even if you’re
disagreeing and not making progress,” Fehr said. “You never
know when someone will say something to spark an idea that will
allow you to progress.”  Rival Plans  On Sept. 12, owners offered players 47 percent of hockey-
related revenue, with a loss of about $256 million in player
salaries next year. Under the labor deal that expired last
month, players received 57 percent.  “They came in with a proposal that was onerous, difficult
and one that some players found inflammatory,” Fehr said.  Under the union’s plan, should league revenue grow at the
same rate as the past 10 years, the players’ share would
decrease to 54.3 percent in the first year, then 52.5 percent
and 52 percent before rising to 52.3 percent in the fourth year,
Fehr said.  Other contentious issues include salary arbitration and the
length of unrestricted free agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  