-- North End Grill Hailed By Zagat, Is Snubbed By Michelin
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-10-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/north-end-grill-hailed-by-zagat-is-snubbed-by-michelin.html
Chef Floyd Cardoz, not quite two
years removed from the shuttering of  Tabla , the only Danny Meyer
restaurant ever to have closed, saw his North End Grill named
New York’s best new restaurant by the Zagat Survey yesterday.  Meyer continues to partner with Cardoz at North End, an
American restaurant in Battery Park known for its clam pizza,
cumin-spiced fries and, perhaps most importantly, its wide
selection of Scotch whisky.  North End Grill sits around the block from the headquarters
of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The restaurant “gets a 25 for food, 23 for decor, but it
gets 26 for service,” Tim Zagat, referring to his guide’s 0-30
scoring system, said in an interview. “That’s typical Danny
Meyer. He hires nice people like himself and he trains people
for service in a way that virtually nobody else does.”  The Zagat citation came a few hours after North End Grill
failed to win a single star from Michelin’s New York 2013 guide.  Eric Ripert’s Le Bernardin won Zagat’s top food ranking for
the third year in a row, and continued its dominance of the most
popular category over Meyer’s Gramercy Tavern and Will Guidara’s
Eleven Madison Park.  Best Service  Thomas Keller’s Per Se, on the Time Warner Center’s fourth
floor, was victorious again in the best-service category, while
Asiate, its neighbor in the adjacent Mandarin Oriental Hotel,
again triumphed in the decor category.  Zagat collected the opinions of 44,306 diners, who ate out
an average of three meals a week, the same as last year but down
from 3.4 in 2006 and 3.5 in 2002, long before the collapse of
Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns.  “The New York dining scene has not fully recovered from
the Great Recession,” according to the burgundy guidebook. The
average number of meals surveyors cooked at home outpaced the
number of meals they ate out or took out.  Zagat, purchased last year by  Google, Inc. (GOOG)  reported 60
restaurant closings in 2012, the lowest number since before
2002. The count of restaurant openings fell to 119, down from
last year’s 135.  The Zagat “2013 New York City Restaurant Survey” is
available for $15.95 in stores.  Michelin Guide  The “other red guide” also released its New York results
yesterday. Atera, a naturalistic Tribeca restaurant featuring
three-hour tastings of edible rocks, organs, shells and coal,
sometimes served on beds of moss or hay, was the sole debut
entrant to the two-star category in the 2013 Michelin Guide.  Chef Matthew Lightner charges $165 for his 20-plus course
tastings at Atera. After wine pairing, tax and tip, dinner for
two will cost just under $700.  Blanca was the only new Brooklyn entrant into the starred
category. The 12-seat Bushwick venue, which began accepting
reservations from the public only in August, sells a $180
tasting that includes caviar, truffles and Wagyu, pretty fancy
for a place located inside a converted garage.  The NoMad, run by Eleven Madison Park’s Daniel Humm and
Will Guidara, won a star for a menu that includes a $79 truffle
and foie-gras stuffed chicken. And Torrisi Italian Specialties,
the high-end red sauce joint that went from walks-ins only to
reservations-only in the past year, earned its first star today.  $160 Menu  Torrisi charges $160 for a 20-plus course tasting, or $65
for a shorter set menu.  Local food writers have been touting the virtues of Torrisi
for years, as well as the pleasures of 15 East, a sushi spot
that earned its first star as well today. David Chang’s Momofuku
Ssam Bar and Noodle Bar, however, continued their star deficits.  Michelin frequently takes stands at odds with local
reviews. The “guide rouge” awarded a star to Hakkasan in the
Theater District, a Chinese restaurant that  New York Magazine 
derided as “Ruby Foo’s for rich people.”  “Hakkasan is less about exposing New Yorkers to
traditional Chinese luxuries, than using expensive Western
ingredients in vaguely Eastern dishes as a DJ plays club
music,” I wrote in my review.  The Sichuanese Cafe  China  and Lan Sheng were also new
honorees, giving New York a total of three Michelin stars for
Chinese restaurants. Jungsik, the high-end import from  Seoul ,
was awarded a star as well.  Brooklyn Fare  All of New York’s three-starred restaurants maintained
their rankings. They are: The Chef’s Table at Brooklyn Fare,
Daniel, Eleven Madison Park, Jean Georges, Le Bernardin, Masa
and Per Se.  Besides Atera, the two-starred restaurants include Gordon
Ramsay at The London, Corton, Gilt, Marea, Momofuku Ko and Soto.  Three stars means exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two stars are for excellent cooking, worth a detour;
one star denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie. is the world’s second-biggest tire maker,
after Bridgestone Corp. It produced its first guide in August
1900, distributed free (until 1920) and intended for chauffeurs.  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina and Lili Rosboch on
 art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 