-- Oil Advances From Two-Month Low as ECB Meets
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-10-04T12:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/oil-falls-as-u-s-crude-output-rises-to-highest-level-since-1996.html
Oil rebounded in New York after
dropping the most in more than three months as tensions between
Syria and  Turkey  fanned concern that exports from the  Middle
East  may be reduced.  Futures advanced as much as 0.9 percent as Turkey fired
into Syrian territory for a second day and called for United
Nations intervention. The euro gained against the dollar,
boosting the appeal of commodities, as the  European Central Bank 
left interest rates unchanged. Oil plunged 4.1 percent yesterday
after the Energy Department reported that U.S. crude production
climbed to the highest level in more than 15 years while fuel
usage decreased.  “Turkey-Syria jitters are adding to general concerns in
the Middle East,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB
Capital in London, who correctly predicted crude would fail to
advance last month. “There’s some buying on the lows after
losses yesterday, and the greenback is also a touch lower.”  Crude for November delivery gained as much as 80 cents to
$88.94 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and was at
$88.65 at 1:10 p.m. London time. Futures dropped to $88.14
yesterday, the lowest settlement since Aug. 2. Prices are down
10 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement advanced $1.16 to $109.33
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark crude was at a  premium  of $20.57 to WTI, up
from $20.03 yesterday.  Saudi Minister  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi , speaking at a
conference in Ankara, Turkey, reiterated views that there is no
difficulty with oil supply and additional demand can be met.  Oil prices  were “very high” this year and the kingdom is
working to keep them at a “reasonable level,” Al-Naimi said.  Lawmakers convened in Ankara for an emergency debate to
grant Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government a one-
year mandate for possible military incursions into Syria.
Turkish artillery units fired three salvos at Syrian military
targets this morning, CNN-Turk reported.  Syria’s uprising has escalated into a conflict that’s
spilling across its borders, with shells and gunfire now
following tens of thousands of refugees into Turkey, Lebanon and
Jordan.  U.S. crude  output  rose by 11,000 barrels a day to 6.52
million last week, the most since December 1996, the Energy
Department reported yesterday. Fuel demand fell 0.3 percent to
 18.3 million barrels  a day in the four weeks ended Sept. 28, the
lowest level since April.  The single European currency gained 0.4 percent to $1.2957
versus the dollar at 12:48 p.m. London time. The ECB, kept
 interest rates  on hold at a meeting in Ljubljana, Slovenia,
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  