-- Hong Kong Arrests 7 After Boat Collision Leaves 38 Dead
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n ,   A i b i n g   G u o   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-10-03T05:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/hong-kong-arrests-7-after-boat-collision-leaves-38-dead.html
Hong Kong arrested seven people and
started a criminal investigation after at least 38 people were
killed in the city’s worst maritime disaster in four decades.  A boat carrying more than 120 employees and family members
of Hongkong Electric Co., controlled by the city’s richest man
 Li Ka-shing , partially sank after a collision with a commuter
ferry on Oct. 1. The boat was heading to Victoria Harbor from
Lamma Island, southwest of Hong Kong Island, for a fireworks
display to mark China’s National Day.  The government recovered the vessel, named “Lamma IV,”
and is conducting an inspection to find out why it sank so
rapidly. Rescue divers are continuing a search at the crash site
and along the coastline because it’s not clear how many people
remain missing, said Sam Hui, a spokesman for the fire
department.  “Looking at the damage, and that Lamma IV sank so quickly,
the impact was very powerful,” said Prakash Metaparti, an
assistant professor of logistics and maritime studies at  Hong
Kong Polytechnic University . “It looks like either one of them
or both of them are going at a good speed and that’s why the
impact is so severe.”  The seven people arrested were crew members, including the
captains of both vessels, the government said. All of them have
been released on bail.  Criminal Liability  “From the investigation so far, we’ve come to the
suspicion that the crew responsible for manning the two vessels
had not exercised the care required of them by law,” Tsang Wai-
hung, the police commissioner, said at a press conference
yesterday. “Our investigation will focus on criminal liability
as well as assist the coroner’s court if an inquest is held.”  The death toll is the highest in a single marine accident
since at least 1984, according to  statistics  on the website of
Hong Kong’s Marine Department. It may be the most deadly
accident since 1971, when Macau-to-Hong Kong ferry “Fat Shan”
capsized during Typhoon Rose,  killing 88  people, according to
the  Hong Kong Observatory .  The commuter ferry, operated by Hong Kong & Kowloon Ferry
Holdings Ltd., was carrying 95 passengers and four crew members,
the company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. A few of
the passengers were lightly injured, it said.  Vessel Captain  The ferry captain is “emotionally depressed,” Nelson Ng,
general manager at Hong Kong & Kowloon Ferry, said on Cable TV
today. The vessel passed its last inspection in September, and
the captain has been licensed for 27 years, he said.  More than 1,000 fire department and police officers worked
through the night to rescue the injured and recover the dead,
Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying said at a press
conference yesterday.  “It doesn’t matter whether it’s the worst marine accident
in our waters,” Leung said. “Every life on that boat is
important and precious. That’s why the government needs to use
all resources available to save these lives.”  Thirty people were pronounced dead at the scene and eight
after arrival at the city’s hospitals, the government said on
its  website  yesterday. Of the 100 passengers taken to five
hospitals, three remained in serious or critical condition as of
10 a.m. today.  Frogmen, Helicopters  Rescue efforts took place in the dark, with frogmen diving
into the seas while five helicopters shone searchlights near the
stricken vessel.  Visibility  in the waters around Hong Kong ranged between 9
kilometers (5.6 miles) and 15 kilometers at 8 p.m. on Oct. 1,
according to the Hong Kong Observatory and Marine Department..  Though “Hong Kong has heavy sea traffic, there have only
been a few accidents,” said Metaparti. These accidents were
mostly due to “human errors like going at a higher speed or
making a bad professional judgment.”  The government will set up a commission of inquiry to look
into the causes of the accident, Leung said.  Hongkong Electric said it has set aside HK$200,000
($25,800) for the family of each person who died. The company is
a unit of  Power Assets Holdings Ltd. (6) , which is controlled by
 Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. (1038)   Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ,
which Li chairs, owns Cheung Kong Infrastructure.  “You don’t have to ask me how I feel,” Li, who visited
the injured at the Queen Mary Hospital yesterday, told
reporters. “It’s definitely very sad.”  The Li Ka Shing Foundation said it will donate HK$30
million to victims of the accident.  Lamma Island  Lamma Island has about six thousand residents, including
expatriates who commute from there to Hong Kong’s central
business district. The ferry trip to central takes about thirty
minutes. After the collision, the commuter ferry docked at the
island’s Yung Shue Wan pier.  “The vessel was tilting to the side as water got in, and
there are a few injured passengers,”  Hong Kong  & Kowloon Ferry
said. “We believe the captain rushed back to the Yung Shue Wan
pier to seek help for safety and the injured.”  The ferry’s captain had notified the marine department by
radio after the crash, the company said, adding the vessel “did
stay at the scene” initially.  “I saw the gash on the front left side and thought it must
have hit something,” said Matthew Nicholls, a resident of Lamma
Island who was waiting for the ferry around 8:30 p.m on Oct. 1.
“There were some people who looked shocked getting off the
ferry. Some were panicking, making calls on their phones and
others seemed OK.”  Nicholls, a four-year resident of Lamma Island who stayed
on the pier for around 45 minutes after the ferry arrived, said
the boat seemed around one-third full, and some passengers were
wearing life jackets.  National Day  A “massive crowd” was waiting for the ferry to  Hong Kong
island , which lies to Lamma Island’s northeast, Nicholls said.
Yesterday, the pier’s railings remained decorated with purple,
green, yellow, orange and red rectangular flags saying
“Celebrate National Day.”  “Suddenly people started staring at the ferry coming back
in,” Nicholls said. “As the night went on I was receiving all
these texts asking if I was on the ferry and if I was OK.”  Ferry Fleet  The company has a fleet of 11 vessels plying three routes.
The ferries carry 170 to 410 passengers and have a maximum speed
of 24 knots, according to its website.  Of the dead, seven were employees of Hongkong Electric and
14 were family and friends, the power company said in a press
release emailed to the media late yesterday. The remaining
victims await identification, Yuen said.  With the fireworks display scheduled for 9 p.m. on Oct. 1,
Hongkong Electric’s boat left Lamma Island at 8:15 p.m. with
about 120 employees and family members on board, according to
the company’s statement. The boat had capacity for as many as
200 people, it said.  The marine department sets up a restricted area before and
during the fireworks display and “a large number of boats” try
to get closer for “good viewing points,” said Metaparti of
Polytechnic University. Lamma IV may have been trying “to get a
good position.”  China’s President  Hu Jintao , Premier  Wen Jiabao  and Vice
President  Xi Jinping  “expressed condolence over the deadly ship
collision in Hong Kong,” the official Xinhua News Agency
reported yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  