-- Hong Kong Recovers Sunken Boat, Starts Fatal Crash Probe
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n ,   A i b i n g   G u o   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-10-03T07:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/hong-kong-recovers-sunken-boat-starts-fatal-crash-probe.html
Hong Kong recovered the boat that was
partially sunk in a crash that killed at least 38 people, and
started an inspection to find the cause of the city’s worst
maritime disaster in four decades.  The “Lamma IV,” carrying more than 120 employees and
family members of Hongkong Electric Co., controlled by the
city’s richest man  Li Ka-shing , collided with a commuter ferry
Oct. 1. As rescue divers continued a search at the crash site
and along the coastline, the government opened a criminal
investigation and announced a commission of inquiry.  The Hong Kong government declared a day of mourning
tomorrow and will set up 18 points with condolence books. The
death toll is the highest in a single marine accident since at
least 1984, according to  statistics  on the Marine Department
website. It may be the most deadly accident since 1971, when
Macau-to-Hong Kong ferry “Fat Shan” capsized during Typhoon
Rose,  killing 88  people, according to the Hong Kong Observatory.  “We will investigate how the damage to the boat led to
water flooding, and why it sank so fast,” Francis Liu, director
of the Marine Department, said in a phone interview with Metro
Broadcast Corp. “We’ll also see whether the crew members
violated any rules as they navigated.”  The boat was heading to Victoria Harbor from Lamma Island,
southwest of  Hong Kong Island , for a fireworks display to mark
China’s National Day. It’s not clear how many people remain
missing, said Sam Hui, a spokesman for the fire department.  ‘Powerful’ Impact  “Looking at the damage, and that Lamma IV sank so quickly,
the impact was very powerful,” said Prakash Metaparti, an
assistant professor of logistics and maritime studies at  Hong
Kong Polytechnic University . “It looks like either one of them
or both of them are going at a good speed and that’s why the
impact is so severe.”  Visibility  in the waters around Hong Kong ranged from 9
kilometers (5.6 miles) to 15 kilometers at 8 p.m. on Oct. 1,
according to the  Hong Kong Observatory  and Marine Department.  Though “Hong Kong has heavy sea traffic, there have only
been a few accidents,” said Metaparti. These accidents were
mostly due to “human errors like going at a higher speed or
making a bad professional judgment.”  Police arrested seven crew members, including the captains
of both vessels, the government said. All of them have been
released on bail.  “From the investigation so far, we’ve come to the
suspicion that the crew responsible for manning the two vessels
had not exercised the care required of them by law,” Tsang Wai-
hung, the police commissioner, said at a press conference
yesterday. “Our investigation will focus on criminal liability
as well as assist the coroner’s court if an inquest is held.”  Ferry Captain  The  Hong Kong  & Kowloon Ferry Holdings Ltd. vessel that
struck the Lamma IV was carrying 95 passengers and four crew
members, the company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. A
few of the passengers were lightly injured, it said.  The ferry captain is “emotionally depressed,” Nelson Ng,
general manager at Hong Kong & Kowloon Ferry, said on Cable TV
today. The vessel passed its last inspection in September, and
the captain has been licensed for 27 years, he said.  More than 1,000 fire department and police officers worked
through the night to rescue the injured and recover the dead,
Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying said at a press
conference yesterday.  “Every life on that boat is important and precious,”
Leung said. “That’s why the government needs to use all
resources available to save these lives.”  Serious Condition  Thirty people were pronounced dead at the scene and eight
after arrival at the city’s hospitals, the government said on
its  website  yesterday. Of the 100 passengers taken to five
hospitals, three remained in serious or critical condition as of
10 a.m. today.  A large number of boats were trying to get viewing points
during the pyrotechnic shows, when part of the harbor is
restricted for boats involved in launching the fireworks, said
Metaparti of Polytechnic University. Lamma IV may have been
trying “to get a good position,” he said.  Rescue efforts took place in the dark, with frogmen diving
into the seas while five helicopters shone searchlights near the
stricken vessel.  Hongkong Electric said it has set aside HK$200,000
($25,800) for the family of each person who died. The company is
a unit of  Power Assets Holdings Ltd. (6) , which is controlled by
 Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. (1038)   Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ,
which Li chairs, owns Cheung Kong Infrastructure.  The Li Ka Shing Foundation said it will donate HK$30
million to victims of the accident.  Lamma Island  Flags of companies controlled by Li were lowered to half-
staff today at the Cheung Kong Center office building in
Central, the city’s business hub, and Hongkong Electric staff
observed a moment of silence this morning.  Lamma Island has about six thousand residents, including
expatriates who commute from there to Hong Kong’s central
business district. The ferry trip to central takes about thirty
minutes. After the collision, the commuter ferry docked at the
island’s Yung Shue Wan pier.  “The vessel was tilting to the side as water got in, and
there are a few injured passengers,” Hong Kong & Kowloon Ferry
said. “The captain rushed back to the Yung Shue Wan pier to
seek help for safety and the injured.”  The ferry’s captain notified the Marine Department by radio
after the crash, the company said, adding the vessel “did stay
at the scene” initially.  Panicking Passengers  “I saw the gash on the front left side and thought it must
have hit something,” said Matthew Nicholls, a resident of Lamma
Island who was waiting for the ferry around 8:30 p.m on Oct. 1.
“There were some people who looked shocked getting off the
ferry. Some were panicking, making calls on their phones and
others seemed OK.”  Nicholls, a four-year resident of Lamma Island who stayed
on the pier for around 45 minutes after the ferry arrived, said
the boat seemed around one-third full, and some passengers were
wearing life jackets.  A “massive crowd” was waiting for the ferry to Hong Kong
island, which lies to Lamma Island’s northeast, Nicholls said.
Yesterday, the pier’s railings remained decorated with purple,
green, yellow, orange and red rectangular flags saying
“Celebrate National Day.”  Of the dead, seven were employees of Hongkong Electric and
14 were family and friends, the power company said in an e-
mailed press release late yesterday. The remaining victims are
awaiting identification.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  