-- Hong Kong Stocks Rise on China Stimulus, City Home Sales
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-10-03T02:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/hong-kong-stocks-rise-on-china-stimulus-city-home-sales.html
Hong Kong  stocks rose as  China ’s
services industry weakened, stoking speculation the nation will
step up measures to stimulate the world’s second-largest
economy, and as realtors forecast the most home sales in six
years in the island city.  Yue Yuen Industrial Holdings Ltd., which makes shoes for
Nike Inc., rose 1.5.  New World Development Co. (17) , the Hong Kong
property company controlled by the family of billionaire  Cheng
Yu-tung , gained 1.7 percent as realtors said demand for homes is
increasing amid expectations for prolonged low-interest rates.
China Construction Bank Corp., the nation’s second-largest
lender, rose 1.3 percent, leading financial stocks higher.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 0.6 percent to 20,957.26 as of
10:26 a.m. local time, after being closed the past two days for
a local holiday. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland companies added 0.6 percent to 9,892.32. Markets in
mainland will remain closed through Oct. 5.  “ China’s economy  is decelerating and will probably achieve
a soft landing,” said Khiem Do, Hong Kong-based head of multi-
asset strategy at Baring Asset Management (Asia) Ltd., which
oversees about $8 billion. “China will introduce additional
stimulus measures in their own time.”  China’s non-manufacturing industries expanded at the
weakest pace since at least March 2011 as officials struggle to
reverse an economic slowdown, a report showed today.  The  purchasing managers’ index  fell to 53.7 from 56.3 in
August, the National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation
of Logistics and Purchasing said in Beijing. Readings
above 50 indicate expansion.  City Developers  Hong Kong developers, seeking funds to tap an expanding
government land supply, are this month preparing to sell the
most homes in six years as expectations for prolonged low-
 interest rates  fuel demand.  Real-estate companies led by New World Development, this
year’s best performer in Hong Kong’s benchmark property gauge,
may sell more than 3,300 units from eight new projects in
October, according to Buggle Lau, chief analyst at Midland
Holdings Ltd., the city’s biggest publicly traded realtor. That
would be the highest monthly figure since August 2006, Lau said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  