-- Online Poker Payment Processor Gets Five Months in Prison
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-10-03T22:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/online-poker-payment-processor-gets-five-months-in-prison-1-.html
A Las Vegas man who worked for online
poker companies was sentenced to five months in prison for
helping deceive banks into processing hundreds of millions of
dollars in illegal gambling transactions.  Chad Elie, 32, was one of 11 people charged in an April
2011 indictment targeting the founders of PokerStars, Full Tilt
Poker and  Absolute Poker . U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan 
sentenced Elie today in federal court in  Manhattan , saying the
defendant “really didn’t care whether what he was doing was
legal.”  “He was in a sense playing a game with the government, a
catch-me-if-you-can kind of game,” Kaplan said today about
Elie. “That just can’t be overlooked.”  Prosecutors allege that after the U.S. implemented the
Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act in 2006, which barred
banks from processing payments to offshore gambling websites,
the three companies worked around the ban to continue operating
in the U.S.  Elie pleaded guilty to conspiracy in March, admitting that
he served as a “payment processor” for the poker companies and
lied to U.S. banks about the nature of the financial
transactions they were processing.  A lawyer for Elie, Barry Berke, asked that his client be
sentenced to six months of home confinement, two years of
probation and community service, arguing that he has accepted
responsibility for his actions.  Elie Apologizes  Dressed in a gray suit and black-framed glasses, Elie stood
to give a brief statement to the court. “I’d just like to
apologize to my family and friends for the pain and
disappointment I caused them and ask for their forgiveness,” he
said.  Kaplan said a sentence without jail time would be too
lenient. Commenting on activities of all defendants involved in
the case, Kaplan said “there was a deliberate or at least
criminally reckless spitting in the eyes of the government and
the laws of the  United States .”  Berke declined to comment on the sentence after the
hearing.  Last month, Nelson Burtnick, the head of payment processing
for Ireland-based Full Tilt Poker, pleaded guilty to taking part
in the scheme while working at both Isle of Man-based PokerStars
and later at Full Tilt.  In July, Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , whose
office is prosecuting the case, as well as a civil suit against
the three gambling companies, announced a $731 million
settlement with PokerStars and Full Tilt. PokerStars agreed to
forfeit $547 million.  PokerStars agreed to acquire the assets of Full Tilt, whose
U.S. victims will be able to seek compensation from the  Justice
Department  from the funds, prosecutors said at the time.  The case is U.S. v. Tzvetkoff, 10-CR-00336, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  