-- Monsanto Says Earnings May Rise 17%, Trailing Estimates
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-10-03T20:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/monsanto-says-earnings-may-rise-17-trailing-estimates.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest
seed company, forecast fiscal 2013 earnings will rise as much as
17 percent on sales of the newest genetically engineered corn
and soybean seeds in the U.S. and Latin America.  Profit for the year that began Sept. 1 will rise to $4.18
to $4.32 a share, from $3.70, St. Louis-based Monsanto said
today in a statement. The average of 18 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was for profit of $4.38. The shares fell 2.2 percent
to $88.59 at the close in New York.  The forecast is consistent with Monsanto’s previous
comments, even though “the Street is a bit ahead,” Kevin W. McCarthy, an analyst at Bank of America Corp. in  New York , said
in a report today. Monsanto typically raises its outlook through
the year, Don Carson, a New York-based analyst at Susquehanna
Financial Group, said in a Sept. 30 report. Both analysts
recommend buying the shares.  Since 2010, Monsanto Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Hugh Grant  has targeted annual percentage profit increases in
the “mid-teens” as the company raises prices on some
genetically modified seeds and expands in Latin America and
Eastern  Europe . Monsanto stands to gain from the worst U.S.
drought in more than five decades as competitors face seed
shortages, the company said in June.  Quarterly Loss  “This outlook is the underlying base growth they think
they can do, so there is upside,” such as higher prices for
Roundup herbicide,  Chris Shaw , a New York-based analyst at
Monness Crespi Hardt & Co. who rates the shares hold, said today
by phone. “Nothing in this suggests anything worrisome.”  Monsanto’s net loss widened to $229 million, or 42 cents a
share, in the three months through August, from $112 million, or
21 cents a share, a year earlier, as corn and cotton seed sales
fell, according to the statement. The fiscal fourth-quarter loss
excluding a one-time benefit was 44 cents a share, wider than
the 43-cent average of 18  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales in the quarter fell to $2.11 billion from $2.25
billion, trailing the $2.23 billion average estimate.  Monsanto’s fourth quarter is typically its  weakest period 
because farmers in  North America  and Europe haven’t begun
purchasing seed and herbicide for spring planting.  The company grabbed another 1 percentage point of market
share in soybeans during 2012 and more than 1 point in corn,
President Brett Begemann said on a conference call.  Capital Spending  Gross profit from seeds and genetic licenses will rise 8.1
percent to $6.55 billion in fiscal 2013, from $6.06 billion,
with half the growth occurring outside the U.S., Monsanto said.
Average corn seed prices will rise as much as 10 percent as
farmers upgrade to the newest genetic technologies, Begemann
said.  Capital spending  will rise to as much as $1 billion, from
$646 million in 2012, for investments in  Latin America  and
Eastern Europe, Chief Financial Officer Pierre Courduroux said
on the call.  First-quarter earnings will see “significant growth” as
farmers in Latin America buy corn seed with added genetic traits
and U.S. seed orders come in early, Courduroux said.  U.S. farmers in 2013 probably will match the 96 million
acres of corn sown this year and may exceed this year’s 76
million acres of planted soybeans, Begemann said.  Corn Seeds  Sales of so-called reduced-refuge corn seed engineered to
produce insecticide will rise to 36 million to 38 million acres
in 2013, from 27 million acres, Monsanto said. The updated
version of Roundup Ready soybeans, designed to survive herbicide
applications, will be planted on 39 million to 41 million acres,
compared with 32 million acres in 2012, the company said.  DroughtGard corn seeds, which will be available in the
Western Corn Belt next year, yielded an average of 5 bushels an
acre more than DuPont Co.’s Aquamax seeds in more than 250
trials, Monsanto said. Aquamax yielded 8 percent more than
competing hybrids in “water limited” fields this year, DuPont
said on Oct. 1.  Gross profit from the unit that makes Roundup herbicide
will be about $1 billion, compared with $986 million in fiscal
2012, the company said.  Monsanto should benefit from prices for glyphosate, the
generic form of the company’s Roundup herbicide, that have
climbed about $3 a gallon in recent months, Shaw, the Monness
Crespi analyst, said in a note today.  “Guidance will be a low bar that Monsanto should be able
to exceed in 2013,” Shaw said. “Seed availability, higher
glyphosate prices and strong yield performances by its seeds in
2012 all should drive earnings growth above the mid-teens
levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  