-- Opap Monopoly Extension, License Get EU Green Light on Aid
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-10-03T13:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/opap-monopoly-extension-license-get-eu-green-light-on-aid-1-.html
Opap SA (OPAP) ,  Europe ’s biggest listed
gambling company, can get an extension of its betting monopoly
and a video lottery terminal license after the European Union’s
executive said the company agreed to pay “an adequate fee.”  The European Commission today allowed  Greece  to extend
until 2030 Opap’s exclusive rights to operate 13 games of chance
and to give the company an exclusive license to operate 35,000
video lottery terminals until 2022. The EU said Opap will pay an
adequate fee to get these exclusive rights and “therefore
received no undue economic advantage.”  “Greece has cooperated fully with the commission to ensure
that Opap will not benefit from any undue financial advantage
through the prolongation of its exclusive rights and its license
for video lottery terminals,” EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said in a statement today. “This allows for a
timely privatization of the gambling operator.”  Opap advanced 1.4 percent to 4.31 euros at 4:01 p.m. in
 Athens . The company said last month the Greek state reached an
agreement with the EU competition regulator on taxes on games of
chance in the country. From Jan. 1 any winnings from Opap games
will be taxed at a flat rate of 10 percent, in line with online
betting operators. Greece will receive 30 percent of gross
profit from certain games through Oct. 12, 2020, Opap said.  Today’s decision is “not exactly a monopoly extension,
they just said there’s no issue concerning state aid,” said a
company official, who declined to be identified in line with
official policy. “It’s something we expected after the taxation
deal, and of course it’s positive for us.”  Third Parties  While today’s decision “was expected,” there might be
some concerns, one of which being that “no Internet betting
licenses will be awarded to third parties before 2020,” Paris
Mantzavras, an analyst at Athens-based Pantelakis Securities,
said in a note today.  Another concern will be the outcome of a challenge by
Stanleybet International Ltd.,  William Hill Plc (WMH)  and  Sportingbet
Plc (SBT)  at the EU’s highest court, said Mantzavras. An adviser to
the  EU Court of Justice  last month said in a non-binding opinion
Opap’s gambling monopoly may be unlawful. A ruling normally
follows four to six months later.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  