-- Loss of Xstrata Managers May Hurt Glencore Deal, Bernstein Says
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-10-03T10:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/loss-of-xstrata-managers-may-hurt-glencore-deal-bernstein-says.html
The possibility that  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s
managers and professionals will quit after a planned $33 billion
takeover by  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  could hurt the combined
company, according to Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.  There’s a “potentially negative impact upon the combined
entity from the proposed loss of the strategic and operational
talent that has guided Xstrata’s hitherto meteoric rise,” Paul Gait, a Sanford analyst, wrote in a note today. The loss could
be “potentially material” to the combined group, he said.  Xstrata’s board this week recommended Glencore’s increased
offer, which was revised last month after opposition from
shareholders including Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund. The
merger, five years in the making, would couple Glencore’s
trading operations with Xstrata’s coal, copper and zinc mines,
creating a group with 130,000 employees in more than 40 nations.  The revised proposal would also see Xstrata Chief Executive
Officer  Mick Davis  leave the role at the combined company within
six months, handing over to Glencore CEO Ivan Glasenberg.  “The departure of any CEO and the inevitable attendant
uncertainty as to the firm’s resulting direction is disruptive
and has the potential to, in Xstrata’s case, at the very least
slow down the firm’s hitherto meteoric rise,” said Gait, at
Sanford in London. “Were this to be the case, the value of
Xstrata to Glencore could potentially be reduced.”  Investors will be asked to consider two resolutions; one to
approve the takeover along with 144 million pounds ($232
million) of retention bonuses; and a second that excludes the
pay question, Xstrata said in an Oct. 1 statement. The outcome
of a third vote, on the incentive payments alone, will determine
which of the first two resolutions is taken into account.  Davis won’t get any retention bonus, Xstrata said this
week. He will receive his contractual termination fee of 9.6
million pounds when he leaves, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  