-- U.S. Stocks Gain on Economy Data as Oil Drops on Output
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-10-03T20:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/most-asian-stocks-fall-with-euro-before-retail-data-oil-slides.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SXXP)  up for a third day, as data showed
better-than-forecast growth in jobs and service industries. Oil
sank after American production climbed to the highest since
1996. The dollar gained and Treasuries were little changed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (HSCEI)  climbed 0.4 percent to
close at 1,450.99 at 4 p.m. in New York, paring a gain of 0.6
percent as declines in energy producers and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
weighed on the market. Ten-year Treasury yields were little
changed at 1.61 percent after falling two basis points earlier.
The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials dropped 2.3 percent, the
most since July, as oil and natural gas tumbled at least 3.9
percent. The dollar appreciated against 14 of 16 major peers.  S&P 500 futures turned higher before the open of exchanges
in New York after ADP Employer Services said companies added
162,000 jobs last month, topping the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg for a 140,000 increase. Service
industries in the U.S. expanded by the most in six months,
another report showed. Futures and European stocks slipped
earlier as a report showed Chinese services industries expanded
at the weakest pace since at least March 2011.  “There has been an ongoing tug of war as to whether or not
the liquidity coming into the markets can counteract perhaps
weaker earnings,”  Quincy Krosby , a market strategist for
 Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential Financial, which oversees
$943 billion, said by phone. While today’s data “are positive
underpinnings for the market,” she said, the range-bound
trading “will continue until investors feel comfortable enough
to go in with longer positions in the equity market. Market
participants are still worried about the economy.”  Jobs Data  The ADP data comes two days before a government jobs report
that economists forecast will show the nation added 115,000 jobs
last month and the unemployment rate increased to 8.2 percent
from 8.1 percent. Profits at S&P 500 companies are projected to
have dropped 2 percent in the third quarter, according to
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Alcoa Inc. is scheduled
to mark the unofficial start of the earnings season when it
reports results on Oct. 9.  The S&P 500 is down 1 percent from an almost five-year high
set on Sept. 14, trimming a drop of as much as 2.2 percent.
Gauges of telephone, consumer-discretionary and financial shares
led gains in eight of the 10 main industry groups in the S&P 500
today.  Market Movers  Best Buy Co. jumped 4.7 percent on a Reuters report the
retailer’s founder and buyout firms are scrutinizing the
company’s finances.  Monsanto Co. (MON)  fell 2.2 percent as the world’s
largest seed company forecast 2013 earnings below analyst
estimates. Hewlett-Packard Co. tumbled 13 percent as Chief
Executive Officer Meg Whitman projected a profit decline for
fiscal 2013 as a turnaround effort at the struggling computer
maker takes longer than expected.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index fell 0.1 percent after slumping
0.5 percent earlier. The volume of shares changing hands in the
index’s companies was 17 percent less than the 30-day average,
before a meeting of European Central Bank policy makers
tomorrow, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  plunged 21 percent, the most on record,
after the U.K. rail operator was stripped of the right to
operate West Coast trains from  London  to  Scotland . EasyJet Plc
climbed 3.5 percent as Europe’s second-biggest discount airline
said full-year earnings beat its forecasts.  Oil declined 4.1 percent to $88.14 a barrel after a
government report showed that U.S. crude output climbed to the
highest level in more than 15 years and fuel consumption
decreased. Natural gas lost 3.9 percent, the most in seven
weeks, on forecast of moderating temperatures. Gasoline dropped
2.4 percent as 18 of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI
retreated.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.4 percent, declining
for the first time in five days. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises
Index slid as much as 0.4 percent, the most in a week, before
paring its loss to less than 0.1 percent. Financial markets in
China and South Korea were closed.  China’s purchasing managers’ index fell to 53.7 in
September from 56.3 in August, according to the National Bureau
of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing.  Australia ’s dollar declined for a fourth straight day as
the nation recorded its widest trade deficit since 2008 in
August. It dropped to as low as $1.0196, the weakest level since
Sept. 6.  South Africa’s rand depreciated 0.8 percent against the
dollar on rising expectations the central bank will cut interest
rates to stimulate growth. The dollar strengthened against 14 of
16 major currencies, up 0.1 percent at $1.2903 per euro and 0.5
percent higher at 78.52 yen.  European Yields  Yields on 10-year Italian government bonds increased one
basis point to 5.04 percent, after earlier slipping below 5
percent. The rate on similar-maturity Spanish securities added
six basis points to 5.81 percent.  Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said yesterday he has
no plans to request rescue funds in the near term, defying
market speculation that the nation would ask for a bailout which
would pave the way for the ECB to buy its debt.  There’s “ongoing uncertainty about the timing of Spain’s
formal request for an official program and concerns about global
growth,” Barclays Plc’s head of European currency strategy,
Guillermo Felices, wrote in a report to investors. “We remain
constructive on risky assets, but think better news is needed on
both fronts for the rally to regain momentum.”  The cost of insuring European corporate and sovereign debt
using credit-default swaps fell for a third day, to the lowest
levels in more than a week. The Markit iTraxx Crossover  Index (MXEF)  of
swaps on 50 mostly junk-rated companies declined eight basis
points to 549.  Portuguese debt agency IGCP bought 3.76 billion euros ($4.9
billion) of bonds due next year in exchange for securities due
in 2015 as the nation takes steps to return to international
credit markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  