-- Overlander Leads Sucden to Metals-Trading Dominance: Commodities
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-10-04T15:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/overlander-leads-sucden-to-metals-trading-dominance-commodities.html
Michael Overlander’s first job was
sorting copper from brass in a scrapyard north of  London . Four
decades later, he runs the biggest floor-trading team on the
world’s largest metals bourse.  Sucden Financial Ltd., where Overlander is chief executive
officer, handles about 15 percent of contracts traded on the
London Metal Exchange, which controls more than 80 percent of
global trade in industrial-metal futures. The brokerage is
expanding in  Asia  and moving to bigger  Hong Kong  offices after
 China ’s share of global copper demand more than doubled to about
40 percent in the past 10 years.  The expansion is occurring at the same time as the LME’s
$2.2 billion takeover by Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.
Overlander, who sits on the LME’s board, backed that deal amid
rival offers from Intercontinental Exchange Inc. and CME Group
Inc. in part because of the opportunities it may offer in China,
also the biggest buyer of everything from aluminum to zinc. The
LME’s network of more than 600 warehouses, ensuring physical
delivery against futures, doesn’t include any in China.  “Undoubtedly they will have the capability to unpick some
of the locks to the doors that had previously been closed,”
Overlander said in an interview from his third-floor office in
London’s financial district, about a five-minute walk from the
LME. “The Chinese authorities are obviously close to making
more brokers or naming and authorizing a number of companies to
become overseas brokers.”  Open Outcry  Overlander joined the board of Sucden, a unit of closely
held Sucres et Denrees SA, in 1984 and took over as sole CEO,
managing director, in 1998, according to U.K. Companies House
filings. The 60-year-old’s strategy in Asia, where he increased
the Hong Kong team to 10 people from three, is consistent with
his firm’s four-decade push to expand beyond its original sugar
brokerage business.  Coffee and cocoa were added in the mid-1970s, foreign
exchange in the 1980s and Sucden became a member of the LME’s 6-
meter-wide (20-foot) open-outcry ring in 1994. Sucden’s LME team
of 27 people works alongside JPMorgan Chase & Co., Societe
Generale SA, Barclays Plc and eight other so-called Category 1
members.  The move into metals preceded a  bull market  that erupted in
2001 as mining companies failed to keep pace with demand from
China and other  emerging markets , creating shortages of
everything from nickel to tin to zinc. The 135-year-old LME
handled $15.4 trillion of trade last year, compared with about
$2.5 trillion in 1999. The price of copper, its biggest contract
by value, rose more than fourfold. It’s $8,288 a metric ton
today compared with a record $10,190 in February 2011.  Bull Market  The bull market may now be threatened after China’s growth
slowed for six consecutive quarters. The 17-nation euro area
won’t expand again until the second quarter next year, based on
the median of 24 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
said Sept. 24 that the global economy may be “a bit weaker”
than the Washington-based group forecast in July.  Overlander’s role in the global metals trade contrasts with
his days as a 16-year-old sorting through drums of scrap for
Mountstar Metals in the market town of Biggleswade, a job
secured by his father who worked in metals recycling. He later
moved to the company’s office in London, where in the basement
he prepared flasks of mercury for transportation working for
billionaire investor David Reuben.  Milking Cows  After a year he went to a kibbutz in Mahanaim,  Israel , to
milk cows for nine months, he said in interviews last month. On
his return, he worked as a clerk at the LME for six months for
V. Kaye before managing a factory in Machynlleth,  Wales ,
producing aluminum dust used for brake linings in cars.  “I suppose I wanted to see if I could find a career for
myself that wouldn’t be as Freddie Overlander’s son,” he said.
“And I wanted to remain friends with him. Working in the same
company is not always easy.”  In 1973 he “stumbled” into a job at Sucden, moving from
metals to sugar, a business about which he knew nothing. Sucres
et Denrees, the Paris-based sugar trader founded in 1952, had
started its brokerage arm that year with six people. The unit
now employs 170 and reported a 77 percent gain in profit to 9
million pounds ($14.5 million) last year, according to U.K.
Companies House filings. Sucres et Denrees is having a 60th
anniversary party during the LME week that starts Oct. 15.  Fidel Castro  Overlander’s first job at Sucden included changing the
paper on the telex machine and recording trades on a clipboard.
He still describes sugar as his “first love.”  His job included a three-year posting to the U.S. and
regular trips to Cuba. He has a photo of himself with  Fidel
Castro  in his office and once had a five-hour audience with the
former Cuban leader and a few other people.  “He did most of the talking,” Overlander said about the
meeting, which took place about six years ago. “Next to a
couple of personal matters in my life, it was the most amazing
evening that ever happened.”  Overlander got married shortly before he joined Sucden and
the couple lives in Stanmore, northwest London. Their son works
in  crisis management  and their daughter is a part-time project
coordinator for Maccabi GB, which runs sports, education and
social events for the Jewish community. Overlander says a lot of
his free time is spent with his four grandchildren.  He grew up in the Temple Fortune neighborhood near the
north London suburb of Golders Green. His grandfather was forced
to leave  Germany  in 1939 because of his Jewish faith, ending up
in London after the war. His grandmother was held in the
Theresienstadt concentration camp in what is now the  Czech
Republic , reuniting with the family after the war.  Commodity Exchange  Overlander’s career placed him at the center of  commodities
markets , including stints as the chairman of the London Sugar
Market and a director of the London Commodity Exchange, which
merged with London International Financial Futures Exchange.
Sucden was a founding member of  Liffe (NYX) , now  Europe ’s second-
biggest derivatives market, and Overlander joined its board in
1996. He has been elected to the LME board four times.  “He’s one of the few remaining MDs that has actually
traded and is still running a company,” said Nigel Dentoom,
chairman of LN Metals International Ltd., who remembers first
meeting Overlander at the LME 40 years ago. “He’s spent time on
the LME floor, been a softs trader and served as a director on
almost every main commodity market board and practitioner
committee.”  The breadth of his roles reflects Sucden’s expansion from a
single-commodity company to a business that now encompasses
agriculture, metals,  iron ore , freight, oil and coal and
operates out of London, Hong Kong and Moscow. Overlander has
been there throughout.  “He’s a trader through and through,” said  Martin Abbott ,
the CEO of the LME. “He doesn’t hold back on what he’s thinking
and he’s not afraid to challenge and to enjoy a good debate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  