-- Pemex Said to Find Oil in Supremus 1 Well in Perdido
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-10-03T22:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/pemex-said-to-find-oil-in-supremus-1-well-in-perdido.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , the world’s
fourth-largest crude producer, found oil at its Supremus-1
exploration well in the Gulf of Mexico, said three people with
knowledge of the nation’s second ultra-deepwater discovery in
five weeks.  The Supremus field may hold about 200 million barrels of
crude, said an official with the company known as Pemex. Final
tests at Supremus at the end of September confirmed crude
reserves, according to the three people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is confidential until Pemex makes
an official announcement.  The well, which is about 9,500 feet (2,900 meters) deep, is
part of Pemex’s $1.1 billion spending plan this year on deep-
water exploratory projects. On Aug. 29, the company said it
found oil at the Trion-1 exploration well, also located in the
Perdido Basin, an area about 200 miles (320 kilometers) off the
Texas coast that stretches across the U.S.-Mexican border.  Pemex, based in  Mexico  City, estimates it has 26.5 billion
barrels of untapped crude in deep-water fields in the Gulf, with
about 10 billion barrels coming from the Mexican side of
Perdido.  ‘Jewel in the Crown’  The Bicentenario exploratory deep-water rig used in
Supremus is being sent to the Maximino 1 well, according to
Pemex’s exploration plans. Maximino, which originally was
scheduled for exploration in November 2010, is “the jewel in
the crown of our deepwater projects -- we have high
expectations,” Jose Antonio Escalera, deputy director for
technical exploration, told reporters last year.  The Perdido discoveries ease pressure on Pemex after the
company failed to find commercially viable deep-water crude in
its first 23 attempts.  Mexico’s state-owned company has invested almost $10
billion in exploration since 2009. Pemex is counting on deep-
water  Gulf of Mexico  deposits to increase production by a third
in the next dozen years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  