-- Penn State Faculty Snub of Fracking Study Ends Research
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-10-03T04:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/penn-state-faculty-snub-of-fracking-study-ends-research.html
A natural-gas driller’s group has
canceled a  Pennsylvania  State University study of hydraulic
fracturing after some faculty members balked at the project that
had drawn criticism for being slanted toward industry.  The Marcellus Shale Coalition, which paid more than
$146,000 for three previous studies, ended this year’s report
after work had started, said Kathryn Klaber, coalition
president.  The earlier studies were co-written by former Penn State
professor Tim Considine, an economist now at the University of
Wyoming who has produced research on economic and energy issues
under contract to trade associations. The first study, in 2009,
initially failed to disclose its industry funding and was used
by lawmakers to kill a state tax on gas drillers. It was
characterized as advocacy for producers by groups such as the
nonprofit  Pennsylvania Budget and Policy Center  in Harrisburg.  “It’s been a hot potato,” said Michael Arthur, co-
director of the  Marcellus Center for Outreach and Research  at
Penn State, who is one of at least two faculty members who
declined to take part in this year’s project. “People are a
little more thoughtful about hopping in.”  Without at least one full-time faculty member, the
externally funded study can’t be researched and published under
Penn State’s name, said William Easterling, dean of the College
of Earth and Mineral Sciences.  Drilling companies, amid criticism that producing gas by
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, damages the environment, are
funding university research that at times reaches conclusions
that counter the concerns of critics, Bloomberg News reported in
July. At least two schools are examining their external
relationships after complaints.  Two Schools  The University of Texas at Austin is reviewing a February
study on fracking after reports said the professor who led the
project is on the board of a gas driller.  State University of
New York at Buffalo  trustees are reviewing a report on the
school’s Shale Resources and Society Institute. In May, the
institute issued a study on the environmental record of fracking
in Pennsylvania that drew attention to the role of gas companies
in creating the institute, according to a Sept. 12 memorandum.  Fracking, in which millions of gallons of chemically
treated water and sand are forced underground to break shale
rock and free trapped gas, has lowered energy prices, created
jobs, and enhanced national security, according to a task force
formed by President  Barack Obama ’s Energy Secretary Steven Chu.  Environmental Concerns  Critics say the benefits may not outweigh the environmental
and health risks. Fracking has been linked to groundwater
contamination in Pennsylvania, high ozone levels in Wyoming and
to headaches, sore throats and difficulty breathing for people
living close to wells in  Colorado .  Since 2009, more than 5,000 wells have been drilled in
Pennsylvania’s portion of the Marcellus Shale, which stretches
from New York to West Virginia. The formation may contain 141
trillion cubic feet of gas, enough to meet U.S. demand for about
six years, according to the Energy Department.  The Marcellus Shale Coalition, a Pittsburgh-based drillers
group, paid Penn State for the three economic-impact studies
beginning in 2009, according to John Hanold, senior associate
director of Penn State’s Office of Sponsored Programs.  Considine in June said work on the 2012 report was in
progress. Last month, Klaber said Considine was collecting data
and “working with Penn State to determine what the report looks
like.”  ‘More Accessible’  Now, Klaber says that the group is getting the data and
analysis needed from publicly available government sources on
the economics of gas drilling.  “While third-party studies have played, and can play, an
important role in measuring and forecasting our industry’s
growth and impact, this critical information is now more
accessible than ever,” Klaber said in an Oct. 1 e-mail.  The 2009 report was first released without acknowledging
funding by the shale-gas group. That report and updates bore the
logo of Penn State, leading some to conclude the university
supported its findings, Arthur said.  “It came out with Penn State slapped all over it and it
was never reviewed by any of their peers,” Arthur said. “It’s
really only the opinion and the results of the research of those
three authors.”  Subsequent studies by other researchers have found that gas
drilling created fewer than half the jobs projected by Considine
in 2009. The initial report also said a severance tax proposed
by then Governor Ed Rendell, a Democrat, would drive drillers to
other states. Considine’s findings were cited by state
lawmakers. Rendell eventually dropped the proposal.  Oil, Mines  Considine has conducted research under contract for
industry groups such as the American Petroleum Institute and the
 Wyoming  Mining Association.  In a 2009  report  for the mining group, Considine said
Wyoming coal would lower U.S. energy costs by $280 billion a
year. Global warming emissions from burning coal could be
reduced by planting trees and using technology still in
development to capture carbon dioxide from smokestacks, he said
in the report.  In a 2010  report  for the Washington-based petroleum group,
Considine said Marcellus Shale gas in New York, Pennsylvania and
West Virginia would generate $16 billion in economic output and
184,000 jobs. The project relied on the same computer model used
in the Penn State report.  Faculty’s Role  Considine declined to comment. “Thank you for your
inquiry,” he said in an Oct. 1 e-mail. “On further reflection,
I have no comment regarding this matter.”  In a June 27 interview, he said, “This whole idea of
industry funding biasing research is preposterous.”  “You look at universities all around the country. There
are billions of dollars flowing from companies to do basic
R&D,” he said.  Considine was still on Penn State’s faculty when the 2009
report was commissioned, Easterling said. Seth Blumsack,
assistant professor of energy policy and economics at Penn
State, co-wrote the 2010 and 2011 versions.  Blumsack said he was asked within the past year to
participate in the 2012 report and declined. Arthur said he was
approached in August by Terry Engelder, a professor of
geosciences at Penn State. Arthur declined, saying that some
might question his objectivity were he part of the project.  “I think there was rosiness to the report,” Arthur said
in an interview. “I think that can be documented.”  Engelder also declined to take part.  “I really would like to occupy the middle ground in the
industry v. anti-driller scrum,” Engelder said in an e-mail.  “I would speculate that some of them have just made a
calculated decision that getting out there and being involved in
this report isn’t the best thing for the way they would like to
be seen by the outside world,” Easterling said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  