-- Pensions Weaken 4th Year as Illinois Leads Decline: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-10-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/pensions-weaken-4th-year-as-illinois-leads-decline-muni-credit.html
Funding for U.S. state retirement
plans fell for a fourth straight year as insufficient
contributions and inadequate investment gains overwhelmed cuts
that more than 40 legislatures have made to benefits since 2007.  The median funding ratio was 71.7 percent for the year
through June 2011, down from 74.3 percent the prior period, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Taxpayers in  Illinois , the weakest
of the group for the fourth straight year at 43.4 percent, are
paying the price: the relative borrowing cost of the state and
its localities is almost double the five-year average.  More than 30 states, including  New Jersey  and California,
had less than 80 percent of assets needed to meet obligations to
workers and retirees, the data show. That left them short of the
threshold for sustainability of their plans.  “A lot of the states have done the easiest stuff first,”
Christopher Mier, chief municipal strategist at Loop Capital
Markets in  Chicago , said regarding benefit cuts. “From there it
gets progressively more difficult.”  The funding drop shows the challenge states face trying to
recover from investment losses suffered during the recession
that ended more than three years ago. The  Standard & Poor’s  500
 Index (SPX)  sank 38.5 percent in 2008, the most since 1937.  Not Enough  Lawmakers have lifted retirement ages, forced workers to
contribute more to plans and suspended cost-of-living increases.
Yet more than 30 states still failed to deposit enough into
their systems last year as they struggled to balance budgets,
according to Mier.  “If they had been diligently making their contributions
there wouldn’t have been this crisis,” said David Draine, a
senior researcher in  Washington  at the Pew Center on the States.
“It’s the states that came into the recession with poorly
funded plans and a history of failing to make sufficient
contributions that were already in a very vulnerable spot.”  Estimates of states’ combined pension deficit have ranged
from $1 trillion to as much as $4 trillion as lawmakers and
regulators debate the appropriate rate for discounting
liabilities. The Governmental Accounting Standards Board has
adopted new rules for next year that could swell the gaps.  Lower Rates  Funding levels are falling as lawmakers cave to pressure to
lower assumed rates of return amid volatility in performance.  New York , which has consistently made its actuarially
required payments, had less than 100 percent of the assets it
needed in 2011 after lowering its rate to 7.5 percent from 8
percent, Bloomberg data show.  The board of the  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System , the largest public pension fund with $244 billion of
assets, voted in March to cut its rate to 7.5 percent from 7.75
percent. The fund earned 1 percent in the year ended June 30,
after gaining 21 percent the year before.  California Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, last month
signed the broadest rollback of public-employee pension benefits
in the history of the most-populous state. The changes may save
taxpayers as much as $55 billion over 30 years by requiring new
employees to pay half the cost of benefits and work longer
before retiring. The state’s funding ratio was 78.4 percent,
down from 80.7 percent.  Adding Stocks  While corporate plans have been cutting equities in favor
of fixed-income, public funds have done the opposite. They’ve
increased stocks to nearly 70 percent of portfolios on average
over the last decade as they seek higher returns, according to
the Center for Retirement Research at  Boston College . State
systems are also boosting stakes in alternatives such as  hedge
funds , Cliffwater LLC, an investment advisory firm with offices
in New York and  Los Angeles , said in a June report.  “They are essentially doubling down to earn their way out
of this problem and it’s not working,” said Kimberlee Lisella,
vice president of customized strategies at Cutwater Asset
Management Corp. in Armonk, New York, which oversees $32
billion. “These strategies have had mediocre returns at best
and the volatility has been off the charts.”  Illinois lawmakers in August failed to act on a cost-
cutting pension overhaul, ending a one-day legislative session
called by Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn .  The Democratic-controlled legislature considered increasing
employee contributions, passing some costs to local school
districts, and forcing workers to choose between the current
system and receiving free retirement health care. None won
majority support.  Rating Cut  Standard & Poor’s in August cut Illinois’s rating one step
to A, sixth-highest, citing “weak pension funding levels and
lack of action on reform measures.” New Jersey had its grade
dropped by the three major credit raters last year, in part
because of its unfunded retirement liability.  Investors demand about  1.5 percentage points  of extra yield
to own 10-year general-obligation bonds from Illinois issuers
rather than AAA securities, compared with a five-year average of
0.88 percentage point, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  California , at A-, is the only state whose grade is lower
from S&P.  “We all look like idiots,” Representative Daniel Biss, an
Evanston, Illinois, Democrat, said in a speech in August as the
House failed to advance a bill that would have eliminated the
legislature’s own pension plan, one of five the state manages.
“Not the governor, not the other side, not our side -- we all
look like idiots.”  Court Challenge  Rhode Island , with an unfunded ratio of about 62 percent,
passed one of the most ambitious retirement-system overhauls
last year, as the Democratic-controlled legislature defied union
opposition. Yet the law, which suspended cost-of-living
increases and raised retirement ages, is among the handful being
challenged by employees and retirees in court.  Lawmakers “were reckless in the way that they failed to
fund the plans, and now they’re being equally reckless in the
way they’re going to fix them,” said Steven Kreisberg, director
of collective bargaining for the American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees in Washington. “This is an
example of politicians at their worst.”  In muni trading yesterday, the yield on 10-year AAAs fell 
0.02 percentage point to 1.69 percent, the lowest since early 
August. It dropped to 1.63 percent July 27, the lowest since 
at least January 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Following are pending sales:  NASSAU COUNTY INTERIM FINANCE AUTHORITY, which oversees the
finances of the  Long Island , New York, municipality, plans to
sell about $313 million in refunding bonds as soon as today,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The debt, backed by the
county’s share of local sales-tax revenue, has a AAA rating from
S&P. (Added Oct. 3)  GUAM POWER AUTHORITY is set to sell $354 million of revenue
bonds as soon as this week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
sale will refund debt and will be enhanced with bond insurance,
according to offering documents. (Updated Oct. 1)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 