-- Philippine Peso Little Changed as Europe Damps Investor Appetite
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-10-03T09:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/philippine-peso-drops-as-europe-concern-damps-investor-appetite.html
The Philippine peso was little
changed, after gaining the most in more than two weeks yesterday,
on concern a prolonged slowdown in Europe will damp demand for
emerging-market assets.  Government bonds  fell.  Euro-area retail sales contracted for a 12th straight month
in August from a year earlier, data showed today. The  European
Central Bank  meets tomorrow, when officials are expected to
leave borrowing costs unchanged at a record-low 0.75 percent,
according to a Bloomberg survey. The peso climbed yesterday
after a surprise jump in U.S. manufacturing boosted the Asian
nation’s export outlook, while the Asian Development Bank
upgraded the nation’s growth forecast today.  “The good U.S. data has been neutralized by concern over
Europe,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist in
 Manila  at BDO Unibank Inc. “Investors still have this guarded
optimism on the Philippines.”  The peso closed at 41.600 per dollar compared with 41.605
yesterday in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It dropped
as much as 0.2 percent earlier. The currency touched 41.590 on
Oct. 2, the strongest level since Sept. 20. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price
options, was unchanged at 5.3 percent.  The  Asian Development Bank  lifted its 2012 economic growth
forecast for the Philippines to 5.5 percent from 4.8 percent.
The peso has strengthened 5.4 percent this year, the best
performance in Asia.  Consumer prices rose 3.8 percent in September from a year
earlier, the same as in August that was the fastest since
January, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey  before a report due Oct. 5.  The yield on the 4.75 percent notes due September 2022
increased three basis points to 4.75 percent, according to
prices from Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 