-- Pimco Says Brazil, South Africa Best for Emerging Bonds
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2012-10-03T09:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/pimco-says-brazil-south-africa-mexico-best-for-emerging-bonds.html
Brazil, South Africa and Mexico are
the best  emerging markets  to buy local-currency bonds because
they offer higher yields than the debt of developed nations,
according to Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund.  “Some of our largest investments in emerging local-
currency debt are in these three countries,” Ramin Toloui,
Pimco’s global co-head of emerging markets portfolio management,
said in an interview in  Singapore  today. “In an environment
where global growth rate is very slow, and where core
industrialized yields are very low, there tends to be a strong
force of gravity that pulls those rates down over time. That’s
why these are our favorites.”  Global investors have plowed $25.3 billion in new money
into emerging-market bond funds this year through September,
compared with $17.3 billion in 2011 and $53.6 billion in 2010,
according to data compiled by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
research company EPFR Global. Newport Beach, California-based
Pimco managed  $1.82 trillion  at the end of June.  “You can get 9 percent yields in investing in Brazil, 6
percent in  South Africa  and more than 5 percent in Mexico,”
Toloui said. He oversees four funds, including the $7.9 billion
Pimco Emerging Markets Bonds Fund that returned 19 percent in
the past 12 months, according data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fund Inflows  Brazil’s 10-year bond yield has declined 156 basis points,
or 1.56 percentage points, in the past six months to 9.79
percent, according to Bloomberg data, while the similar measure
in Mexico fell to 5.32 percent from 6.35 percent. In South
Africa, the 10-year yield dropped to 6.99 percent from 7.56
percent at the end of June.  The flows into emerging-market debt will likely be
sustained in 2013, said Toloui, as global investors continue to
reallocate their assets from industrialized economies following
the latest rounds of bond-purchase programs from central banks
in the U.S.,  Europe  and Japan to revive economic growth.  “There are three reasons for this; the debt levels in
emerging markets are much lower, yields are higher and the
existing investor allocations are very lopsided for
industrialized countries,” he said. “Just a process of
creating a balanced global bond portfolio tends to increase the
flows into emerging market countries.”  Local-currency sovereign bonds in emerging economies rose
 10.7 percent  this year through yesterday, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index, a pace that put the market on
course for its best year since 2002. Dollar-based debt advanced
15.2 percent so far this year versus 8.5 percent in 2011.  Europe Risk  Europe’s debt crisis, which has fueled a global economic
slowdown, remains the main risk to the gains, according to
Toloui. Pimco forecasts the  U.S. economy  will expand by 1
percent to 1.5 percent in 2013 while  China ’s growth slows to 6.5
percent to 7 percent rate in the coming year as the “new
normal” for the country.  “The biggest risk to global asset markets continues to be
the situation in Europe,” he said.  Still, Pimco expects the Chinese  yuan  to keep appreciating
after the currency touched a 1993 high last week as Asia’s
biggest economy runs a  trade surplus . South  Korea ’s bonds will
benefit from a possible decline in  interest rates  and capital
inflows from sovereign-wealth funds, according to Toloui.  The  Bank of Korea  will decide on Oct. 11 whether to cut
interest rates for the second time this year to counter risks
posed by Europe’s debt crisis and a slowdown in China. Data
released in the past week showed exports fell for a third month
in September and industrial production dropped more than
expected in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  