-- Pimco Buys European Bank Debt on Draghi Optimism: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-10-03T15:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/pimco-buys-european-bank-debt-on-draghi-optimism-credit-markets.html
Pacific Investment Management Co. and
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  are among U.S. investors buying up bank bonds in
Europe’s most indebted nations as central-bank chief  Mario Draghi  wins back the confidence of the world’s biggest money
managers.  Pimco’s $2.9 billion  exchange-traded fund  boosted the
proportion of its corporate-debt holdings by almost 8 percentage
points in three weeks by adding notes of lenders from Spain’s
 Banco Santander SA (SAN)  to Italy’s Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. BlackRock added to its Santander holdings in
the period while  AllianceBernstein (AGDBX)  LP increased its allocation
to bonds of Spanish lender Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA.  Draghi’s pledge that the  European Central Bank  will do
“whatever it takes” to save the euro is leading the region’s
bank bonds to the longest winning streak over American
counterparts in six months. Test results showing the stress in
Spain’s banking system was less than estimated in June is
fueling the biggest outperformance in the euro debt of that
nation’s lenders in eight months.  “There are many European banks that have solid balance
sheets, assuming there isn’t a breakup of the euro zone,” said
 Ashish Shah , the head of global credit investments at New York-
based AllianceBernstein, which oversees $230 billion in fixed-
income assets. “What Draghi’s done a good job of is reducing
the perception of tail risk around Europe.”  Greater Willingness  Debt from Italian and Spanish banks rallied the most among
financial debt globally last month, gaining 3.8 percent and 2.7
percent, as Draghi announced a plan on Sept. 6 to buy unlimited
quantities of short-dated government bonds of nations that
signed up for rescues.  Turin-based Intesa Sanpaolo and Milan-based  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
led last month’s 1.4 percent gain on bank debt globally, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. In the three months ended
June, losses of about 3.9 percent on the bonds of Italian
lenders and 5.5 percent for Spanish banks pared returns on the
global index to 1.1 percent.  Draghi has shown a greater willingness than predecessor
 Jean-Claude Trichet  to use the ECB’s money to aid Spain and
Italy, with the central bank’s  balance sheet  expanding by 745
billion euros ($963 billion) since he took over in November.  Wellpoint, MetroPCS  “Anybody who was worried about the euro breaking up,
Draghi sort of took that risk off for many people,” said
Michael Shemi, a director at Christofferson, Robb & Co., a New
York-based investment firm with about $1.7 billion under
management. “That’s what made people say look, where can I get
good current income and  capital appreciation .”  Elsewhere in credit markets, Wellpoint Inc., the biggest
U.S. health insurer behind UnitedHealth Group Inc., sold its
first convertible securities in more than 13 years with a $1.35
billion offering of 30-year bonds.  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) 
bonds rose to a record after Deutsche Telekom AG said it would
combine the company with its T-Mobile USA unit.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, fell for the fourth time in five days,
declining 1.44 basis points to 13.06 basis points. The gauge,
which reached a more than two-year low of 12.31 on Sept. 14,
narrows when investors favor assets such as company debentures
and widens when they seek the perceived safety of government
securities.  Credit Swaps  The Markit CDX North America Investment-Grade index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, fell to the lowest in more than a week,
dropping 1.7 basis points to 96.6 basis points, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  In London, the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings declined 3.3 to 129.  Both indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million.  Bonds of  Banco do Brasil SA , Latin America’s largest lender
by assets, were the most actively traded dollar-denominated
corporate securities by dealers today, with 124 trades of $1
million or more as of 11:52 a.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Record Offering  The Brasilia-based bank sold a record $1.75 billion of 10-
year bonds yesterday, eclipsing previous offerings of $1.5
billion in 2011 and 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
new debt climbed 1 cent from the issue price to 99.95 cents on
the dollar to yield 3.9 percent at 11:34 a.m. in New York, Trace
data show.  Wellpoint, the operator of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield
insurance plans issued 2.75 percent debt with a conversion price
of $75.57 per share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The shares traded at $60.45 at 11:46 a.m. in New York.  MetroPCS’s $1 billion of 6.625 percent notes due November
2020 rose 1.1 cents to 110.1 cents on the dollar to yield 5.1
percent at 11:06 a.m. in New York, Trace data show. The bonds
traded as high as 111.6 cents, compared with 105.6 on Oct. 1,
the day before  Bloomberg News  first reported discussions between
the companies.  Buying European  Pimco’s Total Return ETF more than tripled the proportion
of its Santander bonds last month, increasing its allocation to
the debt to 1.04 percent of its portfolio in the three weeks
ended Sept. 28, according to holdings data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The fund, managed by  Bill Gross  purchased the firm’s 3.72
percent bonds that mature in 2015, among other offerings from
Spain’s biggest bank. Those notes have increased by 5.3 cents
since the end of July, to 99.8 cents on the dollar, Trace data
show.  The ETF, which opened on Feb. 29 and follows a similar
strategy to Newport Beach, California-based Pimco’s flagship
 mutual fund , the world’s biggest, attracted about $338 million
of deposits in September, Bloomberg data show.  Mark Porterfield ,
a spokesman for the  money manager , which oversaw $1.82 trillion
of assets as of June 30, declined to comment.  BlackRock Fund  BlackRock’s $3 billion Total Return Fund bought Santander’s
3.25 percent bonds due in 2015 and 4.125 percent bonds due in
January 2017, Bloomberg data show. It also boosted its holdings
of bonds from London-based  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  HSBC
Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   BlackRock (MAHQX) , based in New York, managed $3.56
trillion at the end of June.  “We still believe that there is implementation risk in
Europe, yet valuations are attractive,” Rick Rieder,
BlackRock’s chief investment officer of fundamental fixed
income, said in an e-mail. Italy’s efforts toward achieving more
fiscal responsibility “makes this one of the names that we are
most comfortable with.”  Last month, AllianceBernstein’s $5 billion High Income Fund
purchased BBVA’s 5.919 percent bonds due in April 2049 and added
to its holdings of debt from BNP Paribas SA, France’s largest
bank, according to Bloomberg data.  “The Fed and the ECB have really eased funding concerns
around European as well as U.S. banks,” AllianceBernstein’s
Shah said. “People can really center in on solvency.”  The ECB announced efforts to cut borrowing costs and
stimulate growth in the region the same month that Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  committed to buying $40 billion
of mortgage bonds a month to bolster growth in a third and open-
ended round of so-called quantitative easing.  Unlimited Buying  The central bank also said it expects to keep its target
interest rate, held between zero and 0.25 percent since December
2008, at record-low levels through mid-2015.  While Trichet kept the ECB from propping up debt-laden
governments by limiting purchases of their securities, Draghi
announced an agreement on Sept. 6 for an unlimited bond-buying
program to tamp down  interest rates  and fight speculation of a
currency breakup.  Europe’s central bank also held its benchmark rate at a
record low 0.75 percent as it forecasted a deeper economic
contraction for 2012 than it did three months earlier. Euro-area
gross domestic product will decline 0.4 percent this year
instead of 0.1 percent, it said.  “Our sovereign analysts have become more sanguine on the
eurozone following the ECB’s recent efforts to help preserve the
currency union,” T. Rowe Price Group Inc. portfolio managers
Steven Huber and David Stanley wrote in a report distributed
yesterday.  Stress Tests  “We selectively added to our euro corporate allocation in
our global multi-sector portfolios, including small positions in
short-term debt from Italian and Spanish companies,” they said
in the report.  Spain’s banks have a capital deficit of 59.3 billion euros,
stress tests conducted by New York-based management consultancy
 Oliver Wyman  showed last weekend. That was less than the 62
billion euros Wyman estimated in June that the lenders would
need.  Bonds of Intesa Sanpaolo, Italy’s second-biggest bank, rose
5.2 percent in September, while notes from UniCredit, the
nation’s largest bank, gained 4.4 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s global corporate banking index.  Investors have bid up financial debt prices globally,
leading to 11.4 percent returns this year as banks boost their
capital reserves to meet minimum requirements set out by the 27-
country Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. In the U.S., the
Dodd-Frank Act’s Volcker Rule seeks to limit risk-taking at the
biggest financial institutions.  “Regulatory rules are going to force banks to be better
capitalized and have better quality of capital,” Christofferson
Robb’s Shemi said. “They’ll be less leveraged than in the
past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  