-- Poland Signals November Cut After Holding Borrowing Costs
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-10-04T13:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/poland-unexpectedly-holds-rates-even-as-expansion-slows.html
Poland ’s central bank signaled it may
cut borrowing costs next month if the  economy  slows further
after unexpectedly leaving them at the highest level since 2009
for a fourth meeting.  The Narodowy Bank Polski kept the benchmark seven-day
 interest rate  at 4.75 percent yesterday. Eight economists in a
Bloomberg survey predicted no change, while 27 expected a 25
basis-point reduction that would have reversed a rate increase
in May, the only one by a central bank in the European Union
this year. The NBP last lowered the benchmark in June, 2009.  While central banks around the world have eased monetary
policy to avert a recession, Poland has kept rates at the
highest in three years to tame inflation, even after Governor
Marek Belka signaled the need to reduce them amid  Europe ’s debt
crisis. Poland’s expansion eased in the second quarter to 2.4
percent from a year earlier, the slowest since 2009.  “Inflation is still high and we wanted to make sure the
trend of weakening economic growth will persist,” Belka said at
a news conference yesterday. The central bank “will ease
monetary policy” next month should data show the economy
slowing further and limited inflation risks, according to an e-
mailed statement after today’s meeting.  The zloty traded at 4.091 per euro at 3:39 p.m. in Warsaw,
down from 4.081 yesterday, when it rose 0.7 percent to post the
biggest one-day gain in three weeks. The five-year government
bond yield climbed 3 basis points to 4.24 percent.  Data Points  Consumer-price growth has exceeded the bank’s 2.5 percent
goal since October 2010. While  inflation  slowed to 3.8 percent
in August from 4 percent in July, the central bank forecasts it
will remain above the target until early next year.  “They decided to err on the conservative side,” Lars Christensen, a Copenhagen-based economist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ,
said by phone. The market “was aggressively priced for cuts and
now we have to see why they’re hanging back, but 12 months
ahead, we’ll still have rates 75 to 100 basis points lower.”  Zyta Gilowska, who sits on the 10-member Monetary Policy
Council, remains in hospital and wasn’t present for today’s
meeting, Belka said, adding that he didn’t know whether she will
attend next month’s gathering. Gilowska backed tightening policy
at least twice this year.  Recent data have added to signs that the EU’s biggest
eastern economy is slowing. In August, Polish industrial output
rose at the lowest rate since October 2009, while retail-sales
growth slowed for a fourth month. Last month, manufacturing
deteriorated for a sixth month, falling to the lowest level
since July 2009, according to the purchasing managers’ index.  ECB Plan  While European Central Bank President Mario Draghi calmed
markets roiled by the debt crisis last month by announcing a
bond-purchase plan, the ECB still forecasts a 0.4 contraction
this year for the euro-area economy, the main market for Polish
exports. The 17-nation region’s jobless rate rose to 11.4
percent last month, the highest since the data began in 1995.  Even with the economy slowing and the euro area heading for
a recession, Polish central bankers have been divided over
whether to cut rates. Belka said last month that the need to
ease policy was “obvious,” while council member  Andrzej Kazmierczak  said disinflation must be clearly sustained before
any a rate reduction.  Future Moves  “The upcoming macroeconomic data will confirm that the
economic slowdown is protracted, while the risk of an increase
in inflationary pressure is limited,”  Maciej Reluga , chief
economist at Bank Zachodni WBK, said in an e-mailed note. “We
are expecting a decision for a quarter-point cut in November and
two more through the first quarter of next year.”  Three-month forward-rate agreements dropped to an average
49 basis points below the Warsaw interbank offered rate last
month, the biggest gap since February 2009, signaling bets for
almost two quarter-point rate reductions by the end of 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yesterday’s decision “makes it harder for Governor Belka
to manage a council with a credibility problem,” Boguslaw Grabowski, a former central banker and economic adviser to Prime
Minister Donald Tusk, said in an interview on TVN CNBC
yesterday. “Monetary easing is desperately needed” and keeping
borrowing costs unchanged “effectively tightened policy when
you look at the effect on the zloty.”  Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski, in comments published
yesterday by the Financial Times, said Poland’s “slowdown will
be temporary” and the economy may return to robust growth as
early as the end of next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  