-- Video of Obama Talk to Black Clergy Injects Race in Campaign
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-10-03T12:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/promotion-of-video-of-obama-speech-may-inject-race-into-campaign.html
Portions of a video featuring  Barack Obama  speaking to a conference of black clergy in 2007, aired
last night, injected the issue of race into the campaign on the
eve of the president’s first televised debate against challenger
Mitt Romney.  In the June 2007 video, shown by  Fox News , Obama faults
President  George W. Bush  for not doing enough to calm racial
tensions in the aftermath of  Hurricane Katrina  and calls his
predecessor’s administration “color blind in its
incompetence.” Obama, then a U.S. senator from Illinois, also
refers to his relationship with his controversial former pastor,
the Reverend Jeremiah Wright Jr.  Parts of the speech have been online since 2007. The full
video was promoted last night by Fox talk-show host Sean Hannity
and the  Daily Caller  website, both Obama critics. The video was
replayed as Obama leads Romney in most national polls and in
surveys of voters in the 10 or so states that both campaigns are
focused on as crucial to deciding the Nov. 6 election. Obama and
Romney will debate in Denver at 9 p.m. Washington time.  Supporters of both campaigns have mined old recordings to
tarnish their rivals. Mother Jones, the magazine that published
a secretly recorded tape of Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney ’s May remarks to donors, released another video last
month of Romney from 1985. In it, he characterized Bain Capital
LLC, the Boston-based private-equity firm he co-founded, as a
partnership created to invest in companies, help manage them and
“harvest them at a significant profit.”  Approach Rejected  Linking the first black U.S. president to Wright was a
tactic rejected by Romney in May after Republican strategists
proposed the idea.  The  New York  Times reported at the time that Republican
strategist Fred Davis drafted the plan for a super-political
action committee backed by billionaire  Joe Ricketts , the founder
of what is now  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) , to run ads featuring
Wright, whose racially incendiary sermons became an issue in the
2008 presidential campaign.  “I repudiate that effort,” Romney told reporters May 17
in Jacksonville,  Florida . “I hope that our campaigns can
respectively be about the future and about issues and about a
vision for America.”  Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for the Romney campaign, said
last night the campaign hadn’t seen the video and “did not have
any involvement” in its promotion.  Distraction  The Obama campaign called it a “transparent” attempt to
distract from the issues in the campaign.  “If the Romney campaign believes that Americans will
accept these desperate attacks tomorrow night in place of
specific plans for the middle class, it’s they who are in for a
surprise,” Obama campaign spokesman  Ben LaBolt  said in an e-
mail last night.  Hannity, on his program, said the video shows “some of the
most divisive class warfare and racially charged rhetoric ever
used by Barack Obama.”  Coverage of the June 2007 remarks that Obama delivered to
8,000 people at Hampton University in  Virginia  focused on his
frank discussion of race.  Wright’s Statements  In an excerpt broadcast last night on Fox, Obama pays
homage to Wright. “A special shout-out to my pastor the guy who
puts up with me counsels me, listens to my wife complain about
me,” Obama said. “He’s a friend and a great leader.”  Wright’s statements, suggesting the U.S. brought the Sept.
11 attacks on itself and that the government had a role in
spreading the AIDS virus in the black community, didn’t draw
public scrutiny until the 2008 campaign. In a March 2008 address
in Philadelphia, Obama condemned remarks made by his pastor and
said they presented a “profoundly distorted” view of the U.S.  Romney goes into tonight’s debate trailing with 34 days
until the election.  In an NBC/Wall Street Journal poll of 832 likely voters
taken Sept. 26-30, Obama led 49 percent to 46 percent. Obama led
49 percent to 45 percent in a Quinnipiac University survey of
1,912 likely voters taken Sept. 25-30. Obama was ahead of Romney
by 50 percent to 44 percent in the daily Gallup tracking poll
for Sept. 25-Oct. 1, and the president led by 49 percent to 47
percent in an ABC News/Washington Post survey of likely voters
conducted Sept. 26-29. Obama held a 49 percent to 43 percent
advantage among likely voters in a Bloomberg National Poll
conducted Sept. 21-24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  