-- Quebecor Raises Stake in Quebec Media in C$1.5 Billion
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-10-03T21:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/quebecor-raises-stake-in-quebec-media-in-1-5-billion.html
Quebecor Inc. (QBR/B)  agreed to pay C$1.5
billion ($1.5 billion) to Canada’s second-biggest pension fund
manager to increase its control of media and wireless assets in
French-speaking  Quebec , where it competes with  BCE Inc. (BCE)   Quebecor Media Inc. will buy about 20.4 million of its own
shares held by the Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec for
about C$1 billion. Montreal-based Quebecor will also purchase
10.2 million shares of Quebecor Media held by the pension fund
for about C$500 million, according to a statement today. The
transaction will lift Quebecor’s stake in Quebecor Media to 75.4
percent from 54.7 percent. The Caisse’s stake will be cut to
24.6 percent from 45.3 percent.  “Our intention was to take advantage of the window of
opportunity created by the favorable conditions on the debt
markets to increase our interest in Quebecor Media,” Pierre Karl Peladeau, chief executive officer of Quebecor and Quebecor
Media, said in the statement.  Increasing its stake in Quebecor Media gives Quebecor
greater control over 43 daily newspapers, the cable-television
and wireless business Videotron, broadcaster TVA, and the Canoe
portal of English- and French-language Internet sites. That
gives it more ammunition against BCE, also based in  Montreal ,
which has spent almost C$8 billion in cash and debt over the
past two years buying media assets.  Why Now?  Still, the deal raises question about why Caisse de Depot
is selling now, said  Maher Yaghi , an analyst at Desjardins
Securities Inc. in Montreal.  “This could create negative sentiment, and we suspect the
stock could be under pressure until management addresses this
issue,” said Yaghi, who has a buy rating on Quebecor.  Quebecor fell 1.3 percent to C$33 at the Toronto close. The
stock has fallen 5.4 percent this year.  Asked why the two sides struck a deal now, Peladeau told
analysts on a conference call that “the proper conditions were
available” for the companies to achieve their objectives.cn bn  The transaction will lift Quebecor Media debt-to-earnings
ratio to 3.7 from 2.9, according to Desjardins’s Yaghi. That is
a “comfortable” level, given it stood at 3.8 in 2008, he said.  Lowering Debt  Quebecor Media’s cash flow should allow it to lessen its
debt burden over time, company executives said on the conference
call. The company doesn’t expect Quebecor’s Media dividend to
increase in the short term.  The Caisse, which had C$166 billion in assets at the end of
June, said it still has a stake in Quebecor Media because of the
company’s “potential to create value.” The pension fund ranks
behind Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, based on half-year
results disclosed in August.  “The conditions are right to rebalance our portfolio by
divesting a part of the major position we held in the media and
telecom sector,” Caisse President and CEO Michael Sabia said in
the statement. The Caisse bylaws prohibit the pension-fund
manager from owning more than 30 percent of a company, though an
article in those regulations provides for temporary exemptions.  The Caisse is locked in to its Quebecor Media investment
until Jan. 1, 2019, when it can sell the shares in an initial
public offering, according to today’s statement. Quebecor
executives said they could block an IPO by buying up the shares
and giving it 100 percent ownership.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  