-- Quebecor Issues $1.35 Billion in U.S., Canadian Dollar Bonds
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-10-03T22:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/quebecor-media-plans-1-billion-in-u-s-canadian-dollar-debt.html
Quebecor Inc. (QBR/B) , the Canadian media
company, increased an offering of U.S.-  and Canadian-dollar-
denominated bonds by 36 percent to $1.36 billion and will use
the additional proceeds to retire debt.  The company, through its Quebecor Media Inc. unit, issued
$850 million of 5.75 percent U.S.-dollar-denominated bonds and
C$500 million ($506.4 million) of 6.625 percent Canadian-dollar-
denominated debt, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The securities mature in January 2023.  Proceeds will be used to purchase C$1 billion of equity
from shareholder CDP Capital d’Amerique Investissements Inc., a
unit of Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, according to a
person familiar with the transaction, who asked not to be
identified citing lack of authorization to speak publicly. The
additional $356 million of proceeds will help retire a portion
of Quebecor’s $700 million of 7.75 percent March 2016 debt,
according to a second person familiar with the transaction.  “The company is pitching this as a way to obtain an
’optimal leverage profile’ and the preservation of ‘operational
and financial flexibility’,” Spencer Godfrey, an analyst at
Montpelier, Vermont-based KDP Investment Advisors Inc., wrote in
a report today. “We fail to see how this improves the  capital
structure  or how operational and financial stability is
preserved considering the material increase in leverage.”  Quebecor last sold debt in June, issuing $799 million of 5
percent, 10-year debentures through its Videotron Ltd. unit,
Bloomberg data show.  The U.S. dollar-denominated portion of the sale was managed
by Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc.,  National Bank of
Canada  and Toronto-Dominion Bank, Bloomberg data show. The
Canadian dollar-denominated part of the Montreal-based company’s
offering was run by Bank of  Nova Scotia , Bank of America, Royal
Bank of  Canada  and Toronto-Dominion Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  