-- Trading Errors Show Uneven Testing Policies, NYSE Executive Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-10-03T02:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/trading-errors-show-uneven-testing-policies-nyse-executive-says.html
Not every trading firm has the same
commitment to ensuring their systems are sound, a  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
official said at a meeting called by the Securities and Exchange
Commission on technology breakdowns in markets.  The cycle of coding, testing and implementing software
encompasses plans that start as notes on napkins to formal
approaches “where an idea has to pass through a set of
filters” before it’s converted into computer code, Lou Pastina,
executive vice president for NYSE operations at NYSE Euronext,
said at the SEC meeting yesterday. Regulators should review how
often brokers and other firms evaluate their algorithms and
trading through exchange-sponsored testing systems, he said.  “It’s amazing to me how many times software gets
introduced and firms don’t test with you,” Pastina said.
“Whether we have test symbols in production or we run industry
tests, it’s always the same firms that come in and test -- and
those are the firms that generally don’t have issues. There’s a
long list of firms that never show up.”  Technology executives of trading firms and exchanges argued
that while no system can stop every trading mishap, improved
testing and oversight of computers can limit them. SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  is looking for ways to ensure errors such as
 Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s $440 million trading loss on Aug. 1
don’t create catastrophes for the broader market.  ‘Strongest Message’  “Perhaps the strongest message from the Knight Capital
episode is that the party committing an error may very well end
up bearing a massive financial loss,” Schapiro  said . While
that’s a “wake-up call” to the securities industry, “our
concern is not whether a single firm might fail, but whether it
causes collateral damage to investors and their confidence in
the integrity and stability of our markets,” she said.  The SEC is assessing how market behavior has been altered
after 15 years of regulatory reform and advances in technology
that have left  stock trading  fragmented across 13 exchanges, 10
options markets and dozens of venues operated privately by
brokerages. The speed of trading in an interconnected market can
produce “drastic harm” when errors occur, Schapiro said.  “There is no technical fix,” Nancy Leveson, a professor
of aeronautics and astronautics and engineering systems at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , told the SEC. “That
doesn’t mean we shouldn’t test, use the highest quality-
assurance methods, and do everything we can to build great
software.”  Stricter Oversight  More discipline in software development for trading and
stricter oversight of the process is critical, as it is in
building airplanes and medical devices, she said.  “Failsafe and fault-tolerant designs, whether these
features are automated or use humans in a monitoring function,
are a goal and not yet a reality,” Leveson said. “If instead
this industry engages in hubris and wishful thinking, we’re all
going to have to live with the consequences.”  Deciding when enough testing has been done for a strategy
or program to be deployed is a judgment call, Jamil Nazarali,
head of Citadel Execution Services, said at the meeting.  “You never really know if the testing is enough,”
Nazarali said. “It’s really just a business judgment where you
look at the cost-benefit of a potential error.”  Citadel LLC, the Chicago-based hedge fund with a market-
making subsidiary that competes with Knight, developed “fusebox
technology” over the last decade that tracks executions, he
said. If daily volume exceeds preset parameters or the brokerage
unit’s profits or losses go “out of bounds,” the fusebox
trips, he said. A person must turn it back on.  System Controls  Minimizing the effect of technology breakdowns requires
regulators to define and enforce “minimum frameworks” for
system controls at brokers and exchanges, Citadel said in its
written  testimony  for the meeting. Exchanges should also have
the authority to halt activity that looks erroneous and may hurt
a broker or the market, it said. Citadel said it accounts for a
daily average of 13 percent of U.S. equities volume.  Automated shutdowns known as kill switches that would stop
trading at a securities firm when its volume surpasses preset
maximums are one answer, according to Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s
Anna Ewing. Brokers shouldn’t count on exchanges as the primary
means of preventing errant trading, she said.  A working group of exchange and investment professionals
said last week an automatic shutoff may have prevented the
Knight software error.  ‘Easy Button’  “Kill switches are important, but we need to ensure that
we don’t think of them as the big red easy button,” Ewing,
executive vice president and chief information officer at Nasdaq
OMX, told the SEC. “It’s layered, it’s complex. There’s
decision-making criteria. There is that human element
involved,” she said. “The kill switch at the exchange level is
really the last resort.”  Nasdaq OMX generated criticism from its member firms in May
for failing to stop trading in  Facebook Inc. (FB)  after botching the
initial public offering. A software problem prevented it from
including all the orders and updates to those trade requests in
the initial auction to set the share price. The fix to get
trading started then impeded the dissemination of execution
reports, leaving brokers and investors confused for hours about
whether they owned shares.  While trading in Facebook wasn’t erroneous activity by a
broker, Ewing said “ crisis management  101” includes having
predetermined rules or processes to handle an unexpected event.
She spoke about crises in general and not the Facebook incident.  Complexity Management  “The philosophy is not just about how something is going
to work, but how do you break it and what happens when it’s
broken?” she said. “To deal with the complexity that’s
required and the monitoring that’s involved, we’re actually
looking at more instrumentation, more self-healing mechanisms,
more technology to help complement the oversight that takes
place within our operations centers.”  A exchange kill switch for trading by member firms could be
preceded by a warning phone call from the venue that volume is
reaching a threshold, so humans could intervene and potentially
explain the reason for the spike in activity, Ewing said.  Nasdaq
OMX (NDAQ)  is examining what mechanisms and rules could apply to
shutdown systems and how they could be calculated, she said.  Exchanges and regulators shouldn’t be too rigid about when
a kill switch is implemented because stopping all trading may
worsen a problem for a broker trying to correct a failure,
according to Lou Steinberg, chief technology officer of TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp.  “If we put in predetermined limits, that suggests that we
can in advance figure out all the combinations and permutations
and all the ways things might misbehave,” Steinberg said. He
agreed with the need for some type of kill switch mechanism.
Still, “The fear of destabilizing the market because of a
combination of things we haven’t thought of could actually lead
us to making and implementing a set of technology that doesn’t
get used the way it should,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  