-- Rand Falls to 4-Week Low as Strikes Spread, Rate Cut Bets Rise
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-10-03T15:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/rand-falls-to-three-week-low-on-rate-expectations-china-data.html
The rand retreated to a four-week low
as strikes spread in South Africa’s mining industry and on
rising expectations the central bank will cut interest rates.  The nation’s currency depreciated as much as 1.1 percent to
8.4583, the lowest since Sept. 5, and traded down 0.8 percent at
8.4275 per dollar by 4:22 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on
benchmark 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 6.56 percent.  Strikes spread to  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR) ’s Kusasalethu
Mine and Kumba Iron Ore Ltd.’s Sishen mine, the companies said
today. Walkouts have also suspended sites owned by AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd., South Africa’s largest gold miner, and Anglo
American Platinum Ltd., with its Union operation the latest to
be disrupted, it said late yesterday.  “The focus has shifted from international factors to much
more attention on domestic factors like the strikes,” David Gracey, who heads currency and derivatives trading at Investec
Bank Ltd., said by phone.  Bonds rallied yesterday and forward rate agreements dropped
the most since Aug. 23 after South African Reserve Bank Governor
Gill Marcus rekindled speculation she’ll cut borrowing costs,
saying last month’s decision to keep rates steady “was not an
easy one.” Current buying levels of South African bonds were
unsustainable, with the rise in inflows attributable to the
inclusion of the country’s debt in  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s World
Government Bond Index, Marcus said.  “She has certainly raised expectations of a rate cut,
which is fundamentally not good for the rand when we have all
these massive imbalances,” Gracey said.  South Africa’s  trade shortfall  reached 12.2 billion rand
($1.5 billion) in August, compared with 6.7 billion rand in
July, the Pretoria-based South African Revenue Service said on
Sept. 28 as exports of mineral products such as coal and iron
ore slumped.  China’s non-manufacturing purchasing managers’ index fell
to 53.7 in September from 56.3 in August, the weakest growth
since at least March 2011. Euro-area  services and manufacturing
output  contracted for an eighth month in September, adding to
signs the economy has slipped back into a recession that may
extend through the end of the year.  The euro area bought 22 percent of South Africa’s exports
last year, while  China  accounted for about 13 percent, according
to government data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  