-- Transnet’s Durban Port Plans May Be Scuttled by Municipality
-- B y   N i k i   M o o r e
-- 2012-10-03T14:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/transnet-s-durban-port-plans-may-be-scuttled-by-municipality.html
A plan by Transnet SOC Ltd.,  South
Africa ’s ports and rail utility, to build a harbor on the site
of Durban’s old airport may be scuppered if the east-coast
city’s municipality relocates the Virginia Airport to the site.  The city placed the operators at Virginia, north of Durban,
on a month-to-month lease at the beginning of the year,
according to the Durban Chamber of Commerce. The tender for the
management of the airport, held by Indiza Airport Management,
ends this month.  Transnet earlier this year identified the site of the
decommissioned airport for a new port to handle an anticipated
six-fold increase in container traffic through the port city and
signed a 1.8 billion-rand ($213 million) agreement to buy the
land.  The project forms part of a government plan to improve
transport links between the eastern port city and Gauteng, the
country’s central industrial area, by 2050. Preliminary
estimates so far indicate that 100 billion rand would be needed
for the port-development precinct and a half-trillion rand for
the entire corridor.  Relocating  Virginia  airport to the Transnet site “is only
one option,” city spokesman Thabo Mofokeng said by phone from
Durban. “Nothing has been concluded.”  Transnet, which took transfer of the land on Oct. 1, is
“in the process of pre-feasibility studies and business
plans,” Marc Descoins, program director for dug out port
operations, said by phone from Durban.  “There are no plans to accommodate an airport and no
approach has been received from the municipality. It is highly
unlikely that we could accommodate an airport as the area has
been decommissioned.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niki Moore in Johannesburg at 
 nmoore19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  