-- RBA Seen Cutting Rates to Lowest in 53 Years: Australia Credit
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-10-03T03:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/rba-seen-cutting-rates-to-lowest-in-53-years-australia-credit.html
Australia ’s central bank will reduce
its benchmark  interest rate  to the lowest in the body’s 53-year
history, according to credit markets that more accurately picked
yesterday’s cut than economists.  Traders are pricing in an 80 percent chance the overnight
cash-rate target will be 2.75 percent or less by Feb. 5, swaps
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board lowered the rate 0.25 percentage point to 3.25 percent
yesterday, a decision predicted by nine of 28 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Australia’s record-low benchmark was the 2.89
percent set in January 1960, RBA figures show.  Stevens said Australia’s record mining boom will peak at a
lower level than expected, as he joined peers from  Europe  to the
U.S. seeking to boost growth. That marked a reversal from June,
when he said “cheerleading” was needed to rebut pessimists.
The nation’s benchmark yields are 2.93 percent, almost double
the average for top-rated peers, and Australia’s dollar gained
7.3 percent over the past year even as prices plunged 39 percent
for  iron ore , the nation’s biggest export.  “This was the first time the RBA has acknowledged the need
to provide stimulus as the mining investment boom begins to
fade,” said Adam Donaldson, head of debt research in Sydney at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s largest lender.
“We’ll end up seeing multiple rate cuts that may take the
benchmark to about 2.5 percent in the next year or so.”  Glass Half Full?  Stevens, in a June 8 speech titled  “The Glass Half Full”
expressed optimism about the nation’s economy and cautioned
against monetary policy settings that could reignite asset
bubbles. Responding to audience questions, Stevens said he felt
the need to do some “cheerleading” for the economy in response
to negative commentary on the nation’s prospects and weak
consumer and business confidence.  Since then tumbling commodity prices have spurred miners
including  BHP Billiton (BHP)  Ltd., Xstrata Plc and Fortescue Metals
Group Ltd. to delay some of the projects in a resources
development pipeline the Australian government estimated in June
at A$500 billion ($511 billion). At the same time, companies
from Bluescope Steel Ltd. to surfwear maker Billabong
International Ltd. and the local unit of Ford Motor Co. have
been struggling to cope with the local dollar’s strength.  November Outlook  Stevens will probably cut interest rates again next month,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg after yesterday’s
reduction, in what would be his seventh-straight move on the day
of the Melbourne Cup, Australia’s richest horse race.  The RBA will lower the overnight cash rate target by a
quarter percentage point to 3 percent on Nov. 6, according to 12
of 21 economists polled, unwinding all of the 1.75 percentage
points of increases Stevens made in the wake of the 2009 global
financial crisis. The remainder expected no change. The median
expectation is that the rate will stay at that level, matching
the lowest benchmark since 1960.  Swaps are estimating a 75 percent chance of a rate cut for
next month, and see a 65 percent chance Stevens will cut the
benchmark to 2.5 percent or lower by March. The contracts
accurately predicted yesterday’s move, pricing in a 77 percent
chance of a reduction.  Yield Gap  The extra yield 10-year Australian  government bonds  offer
over similar-dated Treasuries shrank today to a three-month low
of 132 basis points as investors downgraded prospects for the
developed world’s fastest-growing economy. Prices for
Australia’s commodity exports plunged 19 percent over the year
ending Sept. 30 in local-dollar terms, according to an RBA index
published yesterday.  The rate on Australian 10-year notes has dropped 142 basis
points since reaching its 2012 peak of 4.35 percent on March 20,
as Europe headed toward recession and output slowed in  China ,
the South Pacific nation’s biggest export market. The Aussie
dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded currency, came within 2
U.S. cents of falling below parity last month as prices for iron
ore, the nation’s biggest overseas shipment, dropped to the
lowest since 2009.  The Australian currency was at $1.0223 at 12:51 p.m. in
Sydney, after earlier touching an almost one-month low of
$1.0221. It was still more than 35 percent above its average
level since  exchange-rate  controls were scrapped in 1983.  Weaker Economy  Over the past month, government data indicated a weaker
economy: growth slowed in the second quarter to 0.6 percent from
1.4 percent in the first three months of the year; employers
unexpectedly cut payrolls in August; the nation recorded a
wider-than-expected trade deficit in August; and business
confidence declined.  Australia recorded a A$2.03 billion trade shortfall, the
widest since March 2008, as coal exports dropped, the statistics
bureau said today in Sydney. The median estimate in a  Bloomberg
News  survey of 22 economists was for a A$685 million gap.  BHP Billiton  said last month it will stop production at a
coking  coal mine  in Queensland state after delaying a $33
billion copper-uranium-gold project in  South Australia  in
August.  Adding to concern that demand for exports will slow is
weakening economic data in China, its biggest trading partner. A
quarter of Australia’s exports, making up about 5 percent of
gross domestic product, goes to China, and 60 percent of those
shipments are iron ore. Manufacturing in the Asian nation
contracted for a second consecutive month for the first time
since 2009, a government survey indicated Oct. 1.  China Manufacturing  “The peak in resource investment is likely to occur next
year,” Stevens said in a statement yesterday. “As this peak
approaches it will be important that the forecast strengthening
in some other components of demand starts to occur.”  The Markit iTraxx Australia index of credit-default swaps
that gauges perceptions of corporate bond risk was little
changed at 157.44 basis points today in Sydney, according to
Markit Group Ltd.  The extra yield investors demand to hold company notes
instead of Australian government bonds was at 202 yesterday,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. It touched 192 on
Sept. 24, the lowest level in more than a year, according to the
data.  Australia’s 10-year yield still offers 140 basis points
more than the average benchmark sovereign yield for its top-
rated peers. The country is one of 11 sovereign markets
worldwide that hold the top grades from all three of the main
credit-rating companies.  Inflation Low  “The global backdrop, the fact that inflation is low and
the exchange rate is higher has allowed them to make policy a
little more accommodative,”  Peter Jolly , Sydney-based head of
market research for National Australia Bank Ltd., said in
reference to the RBA. “I don’t think we’re starting a big
series of rate cuts. The economy is nowhere weak enough to
justify that,” said Jolly, who predicts the cash rate will be
at 3 percent by early next year.  Growth in Australia will probably be at a 3.6 percent pace
this year, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. The rate of expansion in the U.S., where
the Fed committed last month to unprecedented bond purchases,
will be 2.2 percent, a separate poll showed.  Even after yesterday’s reduction, Australia’s central bank
has the most monetary firepower left among major developed
economies. Benchmark rates are near zero in the U.S. and  Japan ,
0.5 percent in the U.K., 0.75 percent in the euro area, 1
percent in  Canada  and 2.5 percent in  New Zealand .  Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $77.3
billion in  Tokyo  at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co.,
estimates the RBA rate will be at 3 percent by Dec. 31 and 2
percent in a year.  “They said inflation is in their target band, the currency
is still too high and the situation in China is weaker,”
Shimomura said. “The conclusion is that there may be another
rate cut in coming months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  