-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Touches 3-Week Low on Europe Debt Concern
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-10-03T21:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/treasuries-erase-gains-after-private-jobs-report-beats-forecast.html
Treasury 10-year notes gained, with
yields touching a three-week low, as Spain’s economy minister
said the country’s recovery depends on clearing up doubts about
the euro.  Treasury yields rose earlier as a measure of U.S. service
industries expanded faster than forecast and a private report
showed employers added more jobs than projected, signs the
economic recovery may be strengthening. The U.S. jobless rate
probably rose in September as employers kept a lid on hiring, a
Labor Department is forecast to show on Oct. 5.  “There’s an underpinning to Treasuries from the European
sovereign-debt crisis,” said Larry Milstein, managing director
in New York of government-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co.,
a fixed-income broker and dealer for institutional investors.
“That’s an ongoing issue.”  The  yield  on 10-year notes fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.61 percent at 5 p.m. in New York, based
on Bloomberg Bond Trader data. It earlier reached 1.60 percent,
the lowest since Sept. 7. The 1.625 percent security due August
2022 rose 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face value, to 100 3/32.  The  30-year yield  was little changed at 2.82 percent.  Spain’s Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said today at a
press conference in  Madrid  that the country won’t recover unless
“all doubts about the future of the euro are answered.”  The 30-year Treasury bond gained yesterday after Spanish
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said he has no plans to request
financial assistance in the near term.  Economic Reports  The Institute for Supply Management’s index of U.S. non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, rose to 55.1 in September from the prior month’s 53.7,
the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. The median forecast
of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected 53.4. Readings  The ADP Employer Services report showed that employers
added 162,000 jobs last month, compared with a forecast of
140,000 jobs in a Bloomberg News survey of economists and a
revised 189,000 the prior month.  The Labor Department is forecast to show the U.S. last
month added 115,000 jobs, compared with 96,000 in August,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. The unemployment rate is
expected to rise to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent, a separate
survey of economists said.  “There’s still a great deal of economic uncertainty facing
the market -- the labor component and the labor market read is
going to be very important,”  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
said in a phone interview. “The market is unwilling to really
take a strong stance in either direction at this point so close
to the numbers. We’re kind of staying in this range.”  Seeking Mortgages  Mortgage applications in the U.S. climbed last week to the
highest level in more than three years as borrowing costs
dropped to a record low.  The Mortgage Bankers Association’s index jumped 16.6
percent in the period ended Sept. 28 from the prior week to
reach the highest point since April 2009, the Washington-based
group said today. Purchase applications rose 3.9 percent and
refinancing surged 19.6 percent.  Volatility in the Treasury market as measured by the
Merrill Lynch  MOVE index  was 60.4 yesterday, compared with an
average of 60.33 since Sept. 14, the day after the Federal
Reserve said it would buy $40 billion a month of mortgages until
central-bank policy makers see an environment described by
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke as an “ongoing, sustained improvement
in the labor market.” The central bank also said it will
probably hold the federal funds rate near zero at least through
mid-2015.  ‘Economic Uptick’  “The reiteration that the Fed was going to keep rates low
even into the face of an economic recovery is not all that
bullish for the back-end of the market,” said Scott Graham,
head of government-bond trading in  Chicago  at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s
BMO Capital Markets unit, one of the 21 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed. “You’ve got stronger housing, stronger
employment data and then a stronger ISM. There’s a real fear
that if there’s any kind of economic uptick that the inflation
story will be very negative for the back end of the market.”  The difference between 10-year yields on Treasury
Inflation-Protected Securities and conventional U.S. government
debt widened to 2.50 percentage points compared with 2.38
percentage points on Sept. 12. The difference, known in the bond
market as the  break-even rate  of inflation, represents bond
traders bets for the rate of acceleration in consumer prices
during the lives of the securities.  The Fed purchased $4.71 billion of securities maturing from
October 2018 to August 2020 today as part of its program to swap
shorter-term Treasuries in its holdings with those due in six to
30 years, according to Fed Bank of New York’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  