-- Treasuries Rise a 4th Day Before Service Industries Data
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-10-03T11:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/treasuries-hold-3-day-gain-before-service-industries-data.html
Treasury 10-year note yields fell to
the lowest level in three weeks after  China ’s non-manufacturing
industries expanded at a slower pace in September and before a
report that may indicate a similar decline in the U.S.  Thirty-year yields dropped to the least since Sept. 28 on
bets that reports this week will signal the U.S. labor market is
deteriorating. Demand for havens was buoyed as Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said yesterday he has no plans to request
a bailout soon. President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger
 Mitt Romney  will debate economic policy in Denver today.
American companies added fewer workers last month, ADP Employer
Services will say, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “The macro data is not going to come in such that risk
assets will remain supported, so a couple of factors are coming
together and making Treasuries well bid,” said  Michael Leister ,
a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London . “A key
bit of news has been this denial by Rajoy that an aid request is
imminent. This has clearly taken some of the momentum out of
risk assets across the board and is benefitting safe havens.”  The  yield  on benchmark 10-year notes dropped two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.61 percent at 7:16 a.m.
New York time, based on Bloomberg Bond Trader data, after
falling to 1.60 percent, the lowest since Sept. 7. The 1.625
percent security due in August 2022 gained 5/32, or $1.56 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 6/32.  The  30-year bond  yield was little changed at 2.80 percent,
after reaching 2.79 percent.  Negative Yield  Treasuries are becoming more expensive, based on the 10-
year  term premium , a model created by economists at the Fed that
includes expectations for  interest rates , growth and inflation.
The gauge fell to negative 0.95 percent, approaching the record
low of negative 1.02 percent on July 24. A negative reading
indicates investors are willing to accept yields below what’s
considered fair value.  ADP will say employers added 140,000 jobs, down from a
201,000 gain in August that was the most since March, according
to the median prediction of 38 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
A government report in two days’ time will show that the  jobless
rate  rose to 8.2 percent last month from 8.1 percent in August,
according to a separate Bloomberg survey. The Labor Department
issues the figure on Oct. 5.  The purchasing managers’  index  from the Chinese government
and logistics federation fell to 53.7 last month from 56.3 in
August. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  Fed Buying  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  non-manufacturing 
index for the U.S., which covers almost 90 percent of the
economy, slipped to 53.4 in September from 53.7 the previous
month, according to the median forecast of 77 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s index,
which measures industries from utilities and retailing to health
care, housing and finance, is due at 10 a.m. New York time.  The  Federal Reserve  is buying $40 billion of mortgage bonds
a month and it pledged to hold the  federal funds rate  near zero
at least through mid-2015 to support the economy.  The central bank is also swapping shorter-term Treasuries
in its holdings with those due in six to 30 years. It plans to
purchase as much as $5.25 billion of securities maturing from
October 2018 to August 2020 today as part of the program,
according to Fed Bank of New York’s  website .  Europe  is the biggest risk to global markets, said Ramin Toloui, the Singapore-based co-head of  emerging markets 
portfolio management at Pacific Investment Management Co., who
added in interview today with Haslinda Amin on Bloomberg
Television that global economic fundamentals are weak.  Composite Index  Treasuries stayed higher as a report showed euro-area
services and manufacturing last month stayed below the 50 level
that signals growth, even as it improved.  A composite index based on a  survey  of purchasing managers
in both industries in the 17-nation euro area rose 46.1 from
45.9 in August, London-based Markit Economics said today.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pimco, said the U.S. will no longer be first destination of
global capital in search of safe returns unless the gap between
spending and debt is addressed, in his monthly outlook yesterday
on the company’s  website .  Pimco, which is based in  Newport Beach ,  California , and is
a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  managed  $1.82
trillion of assets as of June 30.  The presidential debate at the University of Denver is
scheduled to start at 7 p.m. local time, according to the
school’s  website .  Record-low yields are proving no deterrent to buyers,
aiding the government in its efforts to borrow as total public
 debt  outstanding rises above $16 trillion.  U.S. debt securities held by domestic buyers, excluding the
Fed, rose 10.7 percent in the first seven months of this year to
$3.61 trillion, compared with a 6.9 percent increase for
countries from China to  Germany , according to data from the
Treasury Department and compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  