-- Reed Optimistic for Debt Deal in Lame-Duck U.S. Congress
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-10-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/reed-optimistic-for-debt-deal-in-lame-duck-u-s-congress.html
Prospects are good that Congress will
make a down payment on reducing the  budget deficit  in an end-of-
year session if President  Barack Obama  is re-elected and
Democrats retain control of the Senate,  Jack Reed , a member of
the chamber’s Banking Committee, said.  “It’ll be a big incentive to sitting down and trying to
come up with something that’s balanced, that has to have
revenues,” Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat, said in an interview
yesterday. “It’s going to be complicated, but I hope the
message coming out of the election is ‘let’s get this done.’”  When lawmakers return to Washington following the Nov. 6
election for a lame-duck session, they will have only weeks to
avert more than $500 billion in tax increases and $100 billion
in automatic spending cuts set to take effect in January.  Obama and House and Senate leaders have failed for two
years to reach a deal to cut about $4 trillion over 10 years.
Democrats oppose cuts to entitlement programs such as Medicare
and Social Security, and Republicans have ruled out raising
taxes on upper-income earners.  With polls showing Americans frustrated with Washington’s
inability to get things done, the election may give either
Democrats or Republicans a mandate to proceed with their vision
for scaling back the deficit, Reed said. Democrats say any deal
must include both spending cuts and tax increases while
Republicans insist on spending cuts only.  ‘Key to Unlock’  “The key to unlock a lot of this is whether revenue is
actually on the table,” said Reed. “The president’s instincts
would be to go for a grand bargain as he was trying to arrange”
with Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  in 2011.  “So much turns on the election,” Reed said.  While Obama would prefer a large-scale deal following the
election, “there’s something to be said for a framework that is
a down-payment approach,” said Reed. “That would give some
confidence” to U.S. creditors and financial markets.  Republicans oppose ending the George W. Bush-era tax cuts
for couples earning more than $250,000 a year, as the president
is demanding. Instead, Republican leaders and presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  propose curbing some as-yet unidentified
deductions and credits while lowering income tax rates.  Reed predicted Republicans may drop their resistance to
higher taxes for upper-income Americans after the election, once
they realize the economic and political peril of ending popular
breaks like those for home mortgages and health care.  Health Care Costs  “One of the biggest ones is health-care costs for
companies,” he said. “You’re going to take that away? Mortgage
interest deduction, when the housing market is just beginning to
get a little traction, you take that away?”  Reed said he agrees with Obama’s threshold of ending the
Bush tax cuts for couples’ income over $250,000 a year.  “To most people, that is a huge amount of money to be
making on an annual basis,” the senator said.  On a planned overhaul of the nation’s housing-finance
system, Reed said a proposal from the administration is needed
to spur congressional action.  “It will help to be a presidential initiative, at least to
get a template on the table and then we start working from
there,” Reed said.  Treasury officials have been working on a housing-finance
plan since they outlined options in 2011. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  said in February that he would release the
plan by the beginning of this summer, though he hasn’t done so.  Volcker Rule  Reed said a final “Volcker rule” to restrict banks’
proprietary trading must be “workable” and able to sustain
market and legal scrutiny. He said the multibillion-dollar
trading loss by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reinforced the need for the
Volcker rule to prevent banks with federally insured deposits
from trading for their own accounts.  “It reinforces the point that the Volcker rule is
important,” Reed said. “That is still the position that a lot
of people have, which otherwise might have been dismissed.”  Reed, who also serves on the Senate Armed Services
Committee, said he is monitoring developments in a merger plan
by  BAE Systems Plc (BAESY)  and  European Aeronautic Defense & Space Co. (EADSY) 
He said he hasn’t seen signs of whether such a combination will
encounter barriers in Congress from lawmakers concerned about
the effect on security and competition for U.S. defense firms.  The companies are exploring an aerospace and defense merger
that would result in a company with estimated revenue of $94
billion, exceeding Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s $76 billion in
sales last year.  Reed said the merger is running into resistance from
European governments and it isn’t clear whether it will proceed.
The German government is raising concerns about keeping a
balance of power with  France , where EADS is based, and about
where centers of command will be based.  “However that comes out will reflect how that’s viewed
here,” said Reed, who said he hasn’t been contacted by either
company’s  Washington  lobbyists. “If it looks like the
arrangements give them certain advantages that aren’t available
to our companies, I think there will be a ‘that’s not fair’
reaction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  