-- Reindeer Herder Vies for House After Lawmaker Melts Down
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-10-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/reindeer-herder-vies-for-house-after-lawmaker-melts-down.html
U.S. Representative Thad McCotter
resigned July 6 over faked signatures that pushed the five-term
Michigan Republican off the ballot, leaving in doubt a seat his
party thought secure for years to come.  Vying for the job are Syed Taj, an India-born Democratic
physician who wears his white coat in ads and makes a virtue of
moderation, and Kerry Bentivolio, a Tea Party-backed Republican
war veteran who raises reindeer and bees and plays Santa Claus
at Christmas.  Bentivolio, a 60-year-old former high-school teacher from
Milford, has never held office and made it into the race even
though Republican elders tried to beat him in an August primary
with a better-known write-in candidate.  “This is one of the most bizarre House races in the
country,” said Jessica Taylor, senior analyst for the
Washington-based Rothenberg Political Report, a nonpartisan
newsletter that covers congressional campaigns. “This should
have stayed in Republican hands. Democrats wouldn’t have taken a
second look at it.”  Taylor rates the race in the district about 40 miles (64
kilometers) west of  Detroit  a “toss-up tilting Republican.” 
The district is 56.5 percent Republican, said Bill Ballenger, 
publisher of the Lansing-based newsletter Inside Michigan 
Politics. No independent polls have been published on the race.  Staying Cool  National Democrats have pledged support for Taj, 66, an
internist who says Bentivolio’s views are too far right. Both
Taj and Bentivolio are targeted for help from their respective
parties’ congressional campaign committees in Washington.  Despite Bentivolio’s chaotic entry into the race,
Republican leaders aren’t panicking, said David Staudt, 53, a
Novi city councilman and treasurer of the party’s Oakland County
chapter.  “I don’t believe any Democrat will win this district,”
Staudt said. “It’s very conservative. There’s a large Tea Party
contingent.”  Still, Staudt was among those who sought an opponent for
Bentivolio in August, and said in an interview he was concerned
that Bentivolio lacks experience.  Republicans control all three branches of Michigan
government and held nine of 15 congressional seats until
McCotter resigned. Both U.S. senators are Democrats.  Guitar Man  The political demise of McCotter, 47, capped a mercurial
career. He  played guitar , displayed posters of the Rolling
Stones and John Lennon in his  Washington  office and quoted Bob
Dylan in his resignation. Elected in 2002 while a state senator,
he wrote a book about conservative principles and bucked his
party’s leaders by supporting unions and his hometown auto
industry.  He began a presidential campaign, but dropped it in 2011 to
seek re-election. In May, when it was discovered that his
nominating petitions didn’t have 1,000 valid signatures to
qualify for the ballot, he resigned.  Four of McCotter’s congressional staff members have been
charged with crimes for falsifying his nominating petitions.
Though McCotter wasn’t implicated, state Attorney General Bill
Schuette said he was “asleep at the switch.”  Double Primary  His  resignation  forced the state into a Byzantine election
schedule, running concurrent contests to fill the last two
months of McCotter’s term and choose his replacement for the
next two years. There was the regular August primary, which
Bentivolio won, a special September primary that he also won,
and on Nov. 6 district voters will fill both the remainder of
the term and the whole of the next.  Bentivolio in August defeated former state senator Nancy Cassis, who was recruited by Republicans to run as a write-in
candidate. She was swamped by a $692,300 campaign on
Bentivolio’s behalf by the Liberty for All super-PAC, according
to Federal Elections Commission records. The PAC supports
candidates who espouse the libertarian views of U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas .  Cassis, 68, won’t endorse Bentivolio. She said his views
are “unusual” and cited his appearance in a 2011 online
satirical movie, “The President Goes to Heaven,” which
suggested, among other things, that a George W. Bush-like
president orchestrated the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks
before lapsing into a coma.  Bentivolio said the movie is a spoof and doesn’t reflect
his views. The ex-teacher, automotive-design engineer and
veteran of Vietnam and  Iraq  wars calls himself a Reagan
Republican with a libertarian streak.  Animal Husbandry  He joined the National Guard in 1991 at 40 and was deployed
to Iraq in 2007, where he said he suffered a neck injury falling
into a ditch. Bentivolio cites bureaucratic foul-ups he
witnessed in the military as reasons not to give the federal
government more control over health care.  Bentivolio keeps six reindeer on his 3.5-acre homestead in
Milford, 20 miles (32 kilometers) northwest of Detroit. With a
reindeer-pulled sleigh, he dresses as Santa Claus for parades.
He also has chickens, bee hives and grows grapes for wine.  “It’s a little surreal for an average guy to be ready,
willing and able to be in the right place at the right time,”
Bentivolio told a Republican audience in Birmingham at a
campaign event.  Border Battalions  Bentivolio said he favors abolishing the U.S. Education
Department, curtailing the Environmental Protection Agency and
transferring 70,000 U.S. troops from  Germany  to the Mexico
border to prevent illegal immigration. He said government debt
is out of control.  “There are a lot of people out there who are spending
their grandchildren’s future, and they won’t be able to pay that
$16 trillion debt back in their lifetime,” he said in a phone
interview.  Taj, who serves on the board of Canton Township, said
Congress is paralyzed by 40 or 50 right-wing extremists.  He
said he’s backed by moderate Republicans.  “When you are elected, you represent everybody, not just a
Tea Party and not just conservative Republicans, not just left
Democrats,” Taj said.  Bentivolio said he can work with opposing views.  “I’ve been married to the same woman for 35 years, I
better know how to compromise,” he told the Birmingham
Republicans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, MI 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Merelman at  