-- Republicans in Close Senate Races Keep Romney at Distance
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-10-03T02:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/republicans-in-close-senate-races-keep-romney-at-distance.html
Massachusetts Republican Senator
 Scott Brown , pressed this week as to whether he is distancing
himself from his party’s presidential nominee, avoided a direct
answer, saying he and  Mitt Romney  are “two different people.”  “He’s out campaigning all over the country,” Brown said
of Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, during an Oct. 1
debate against Democratic challenger  Elizabeth Warren . “I’m
running in Massachusetts.”  From Boston to Honolulu, Senate Republican candidates are
putting some space between themselves and their nominee as
President  Barack Obama  opens a lead in national and state polls.  In Connecticut,  Linda McMahon  stayed away from Sept. 30
fundraisers headlined by Republican vice presidential candidate
 Paul Ryan . In  Nevada , U.S. Representative  Dean Heller  skipped a
chance to share the stage with Romney at a Sept. 21 rally at the
 University of Nevada ,  Las Vegas . In a North Dakota television
ad, Republican Senator Rick Berg says he will “serve as a check
on Obama’s failed policies,” a phrase that skips past Election
Day and Romney’s chances of winning.  Only one Republican in a competitive Senate race has aired
a campaign ad in which he appears alongside Romney: Indiana
State Treasurer  Richard Mourdock .  Survival First  Most of the competitive Senate seats are outside the
presidential battleground states, meaning those races already
were somewhat isolated from Romney’s campaign. That gap began to
widen as congressional candidates condemned a secretly recorded
video that surfaced Sept. 17 in which Romney told donors that 47
percent of Americans see themselves as “victims” who feel
entitled to government aid.  “People running in campaigns look out for their own
survival first, and they have little to gain and much
potentially to lose by embracing Romney,” said  John Pitney , a
political scientist and professor at  Claremont McKenna College 
in Claremont, California.  Democrats in close races in Republican-leaning states are
adopting similar strategies. Missouri Senator  Claire McCaskill 
and West Virginia Senator  Joe Manchin  skipped the Democratic
National Convention in Charlotte, North Carolina, last month.  In North Dakota, both candidates are seeking to unhinge
their messages -- and prospects -- from the top of their party’s
ticket.  Former North Dakota Attorney General Heidi Heitkamp, who is
running against Berg, told the  Associated Press  in May that
Obama “failed in the one test America had for him, which was to
unite the country.”  Didn’t Agree  Berg told the Washington Post on Sept. 20 that he
“absolutely” didn’t agree with Romney’s assessment of 47
percent of Americans. “From my perspective, we need to help
people up,” Berg said. “We need to lift them up, help them
have the opportunity to succeed.”  Brian Walsh , the National Republican Senatorial Committee
communications director, said the trend won’t prevent the party
from working as a team if Romney is elected.  “The difference between the two parties is striking. While
Democratic candidates want to talk about anything but their big
government record, Republicans up and down the ticket are united
around a message of lower taxes, reining in wasteful spending
and rolling back government regulations that are hurting job
growth,” he said.  Candidates Disagree  “Of course there will always be occasions every
presidential cycle where candidates disagree on certain
issues,” Walsh said.  Romney’s campaign was coordinating get-out-the-vote efforts
with congressional candidates across the country, Richard
Beeson, Romney’s national political director, said. Senate
Republican candidates “know what’s driving turnout is all of us
working together,” he said.  Beeson said, since April, anti-Obama ads have far outpaced
anti-Romney adds in down-ticket races.  In addition to Berg, Massachusetts Senator Brown rejected
Romney’s comments about government aid  recipients , mentioning
that his mother once received public assistance.  Of all the candidates, Brown has moved the furthest from
Romney, at times crossing the partisan line and engaging the
Democratic camp.  ‘Honored to Stand’  At this week’s debate against Warren, Brown said he was
“honored to stand with the president and the White House” at a
signing ceremony for legislation Brown sponsored to ban  insider
trading  by members of Congress. A Brown campaign ad shows an
image of the first-term Republican shaking hands with Obama at
the ceremony as the Democratic president tells Brown, “good
job.” It ran more than 1,000 times between Aug. 26 and Sept.
24, according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which
tracks advertising.  Obama leads Romney in Massachusetts, while polls indicate
the Senate race is close, with Warren, a Harvard University
professor, narrowly edging Brown in some surveys. Sixty percent
of likely Massachusetts voters prefer Obama, compared with 32
percent for Romney, according to a WBUR poll conducted Sept. 26-
28. The survey, based on telephone interviews with 504 likely
voters, had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.4 percent.  In Connecticut, McMahon rejected Romney’s comments about 47
percent of Americans, saying “the vast majority of those who
rely on government are not in that situation because they want
to be.” She is running against Democratic U.S. Representative
Chris Murphy for the seat of retiring independent Senator  Joe Lieberman .  Eli Zupnick, a spokesman for Murphy, said in a statement
that McMahon’s decision not to attend the Ryan events showed she
wanted to “run” from her party’s presidential ticket.  Murphy’s campaign also tried to use the Ryan fundraising
visit to tie McMahon to the vice presidential nominee’s proposal
to revamp Medicare, the government’s health-care program for the
elderly.  Ryan Plan  Starting in 2023, Ryan’s plan would convert Medicare into a
voucher program, offering seniors a fixed-dollar amount of
support based on a competitive bidding process.  McMahon’s campaign didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Two days before Heller skipped Romney’s Las Vegas rally, he
told reporters in Washington that he doesn’t “view the world
the same way” as Romney when it comes to people who receive
government assistance. Heller, who was appointed last year to
fill a seat left open by Republican Senator  John Ensign ’s
resignation, is in a competitive race against Democratic U.S.
Representative Shelley Berkley.  In Obama’s native state of Hawaii, Republican Linda Lingle
told the Honolulu Star-Advertiser on Sept. 19 that she was “not
responsible for the statements of Mitt Romney.” Lingle, an
honorary co-chairwoman of the Jewish Americans for Romney
Coalition, added that she didn’t “agree with his
characterization of all individuals who are receiving government
assistance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  