-- Ronaldo’s Hat Trick Leads Real in Champions League; City Draws
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-10-03T23:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/ronaldo-s-hat-trick-leads-real-in-champions-league-city-draws.html
Cristiano Ronaldo  scored three goals
to lead Real Madrid to a 4-1 win at Ajax in soccer’s Champions
League, as  Mario Balotelli ’s late penalty kick gave Manchester
City a 1-1 home draw with  Borussia Dortmund .  Karim Benzema also scored last night as record nine-time
champion Real Madrid remained unbeaten after two games in
Europe’s elite club competition. It was the second hat trick of
the week for Ronaldo, who scored three times in Real’s 5-1
Spanish league win against Deportivo La Coruna four days ago.  “I’m very satisfied because we won while managing to play
well,” Ronaldo said on tournament organizer UEFA’s website.
“It was a complete game from our point of view and it will fill
us with confidence for the coming matches.”  Arsenal, Malaga and Porto also won yesterday to stay
unbeaten after two games, while AC Milan ended its six-match
 Champions League  winless run on the road. The third round of the
group stage will be played Oct. 23 and 24.  Ronaldo opened the scoring in Amsterdam just before
halftime and Benzema increased the Real lead three minutes after
the break. Niklas Moisander scored for Ajax in the 56th minute
before Ronaldo scored twice in two minutes to seal the win and
move atop the competition top scorer’s list with four goals.  Real leads Group D -- which features the champions of
 Spain ,  England ,  Germany  and the Netherlands -- with six points.
Dortmund has four, Manchester City one and Ajax none.  “Having two wins and six points at this stage, we can feel
a little calmer about things, but not too calm,” Real manager
 Jose Mourinho  said on UEFA’s website. “This group is no joke.”  ‘Different Class’  City got its point following Balotelli’s 89th-minute
penalty, which came after a handball at Manchester’s Etihad
Stadium. Marco Reus scored in the second half for Dortmund.  “We’ve got to be happy with a point,” City goalkeeper  Joe Hart , who made eight saves, told  Sky Sports . “I thought
Borussia Dortmund were a different class. It took a good
defensive effort to keep it at one.”  Hart and counterpart Roman Weidenfeller each made four
saves in a scoreless first half, with the City goalkeeper
denying Mario Goetze three times.  Reus broke the deadlock in the 61st minute as he picked up
an errant pass from  Jack Rodwell  and burst in to beat Hart with
a shot. Hart saved with his foot from Robert Lewandoski, who
then fired wide when alone in front of goal.  The miss proved costly when Neven Subotic was called for a
handball in the area and Balotelli slid his kick into the
corner. The Italian striker is now 11-for-11 from the penalty
spot during his career, according to Infostrada Sports.  “If you have a look in the dressing room now, you’ll only
see disappointed faces,” Reus said on UEFA’s website. “We
proved we can compete at this level.”  Arsenal Wins  Second-half goals from Lukas Podolski and  Aaron Ramsey 
helped Arsenal to a 3-1 home win over Olympiacos in Group B.
Gervinho put the Gunners in front just before the break before
Kostas Mitroglou answered for the Greek club in first-half
stoppage time.  “They made it tough for us,” Arsenal assistant Steve Bould, who took over for suspended manager  Arsene Wenger , told
Sky Sports. “Overall it was a fantastic result.”  The win leaves Arsenal with six points atop Group B.
Schalke is two points back after surrendering a last-minute goal
to Souleymane Camara to draw 2-2 with Montpellier, which had
Garry Bocaly red-carded early in the second half.  Portuguese midfielder Eliseu scored twice and Joaquin added
one goal as Malaga beat Anderlecht 3-0 in Belgium to take the
top spot in Group C with six points.  Own Goal  Seven-time champion AC Milan won 3-2 at Zenit St.
Petersburg on an own goal from Tomas Hubocan in the 75th minute.
The victory ended Zenit’s 17-game unbeaten streak at home in
European matches.  Urby Emanuelson and Stephan El Shaaraway also scored for
Milan, which has four points in Group C, while Hulk and Roman
Skirokov got Zenit’s goals.  James Rodriguez scored in the 83rd minute as Porto beat
Paris Saint-Germain 1-0 to lead Group A with six points.  Dynamo
Kiev  beat Dinamo Zagreb 2-0 and is tied with PSG for second
place with three points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 