-- Rupiah Forwards Decline on Spanish Debt Concerns; Bonds Advance
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-10-03T08:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/rupiah-forwards-decline-on-spanish-debt-concerns-bonds-steady.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah forwards fell the
most in a week as Spain’s announcement that it doesn’t plan to
seek a bailout anytime soon fanned concern  Europe ’s debt crisis
will worsen.  Government bonds  advanced.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index declined after
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he does not intend to
request rescue funds imminently. The  Asian Development Bank 
lowered its economic growth forecast for Indonesia to 6.3
percent this year, from an April estimate of 6.4 percent, Edimon
Ginting, senior country economist, said today. The Finance
Ministry plans to raise 5 trillion rupiah ($521 million) from a
bond sale tomorrow.  “There is a tendency for the rupiah to weaken on the
current risk-off sentiment,” said Klara Pramesti, a Jakarta-
based research analyst in the treasury division at PT Bank
Negara Indonesia. “Bonds will be relatively resilient ahead of
the debt auction tomorrow, which will be oversubscribed.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards weakened 0.2 percent
to 10,061 per dollar as of 3:22 p.m. in Jakarta, the most since
Sept. 26, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The contracts to buy
or sell the local currency at a set price and date traded at a
4.6 percent discount to the spot rate. Non-deliverable forwards
are settled in dollars.  The rupiah traded at 9,586 per dollar, compared with 9,587
yesterday, prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg show.
One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, held at 6 percent.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.89
percent, the lowest level since Sept. 17, prices from the Inter
Dealer Market Association show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 