-- Russia September Inflation Rate Probably Surged to 10-Month High
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-10-03T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/russia-september-inflation-rate-probably-surged-to-10-month-high.html
Russia ’s inflation probably quickened
to the fastest in 10 months in September, exceeding the central
bank’s target as droughts pushed up food prices and utility
tariffs for consumers were raised after a delay.  Consumer prices rose 6.5 percent from a year earlier after
a 5.9 percent increase in August, according to the median
estimate of 19 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Prices advanced
0.6 percent in the month, according to a second  poll  of 17
analysts. The Federal Statistics Service will  report  the data
today or tomorrow.  Inflation, driven by droughts from the U.S. to Russia that
sparked a record  rally  in corn and soybean prices, is breaching
the Bank Rossii’s 5 percent to 6 percent target range after
slowing to record lows earlier this year. That forced the
central bank to break with policy makers in other major
economies by unexpectedly raising  interest rates  last month.  “It’s going to be about the poor harvest, drought and also
an increase in utility tariffs in September that were
postponed,” said Juri Kren, an emerging-markets economist at
IDEAglobal in  London  and the top-rated forecaster for Russian
annual inflation. The central bank “will probably hike rates
this month and then they are likely to stop because of concerns
over economic slowdown.”  The ruble is the third-best performer of 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg over the last month, gaining 3.6
percent against the dollar. Non-deliverable forwards, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements, showed
the ruble at 31.6586 per dollar in three months.  Inflation Priority  Inflation fell to a post-Soviet low 3.6 percent in April
and May after the government pushed back increases in utility
tariffs by six months to July 1.  “Ultimately, the most important thing for us is, of
course, driving down inflation,” President  Vladimir Putin  said
Oct. 1 at an investment conference in Moscow in response to a
question about whether the government was willing to sacrifice
short-term economic growth to meet inflation targets.  Agriculture Minister Nikolai Fedorov said Sept. 19 Russia,
the world’s third-largest wheat exporter last season, will
harvest 72 million to 73 million tons of grain, compared with a
June forecast of about 85 million tons and last year’s crop of
94.2 million tons.  Russia may start selling grain from state stockpiles as
early as this month to stem price growth, Deputy Prime Minister
 Arkady Dvorkovich  said Sept. 26.  Greater Risk  Inflation risks remain greater than dangers to economic
growth, central bank First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  told
reporters Oct. 1. The economy grew 4 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, slowing from 4.9 percent in the
previous three months.  Price growth will probably end the year at about 6.4
percent, with policy makers shifting upward their target for
2013 to 5 percent to 6 percent, a half percentage point higher
than the previous range, Ulyukayev said.  “Even if inflation in September turns out lower than
market expectations, that might not stop the central bank from
hiking the rates,” Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist at
Otkritie Capital, said by phone on Oct. 3. “The central bank is
under political pressure to show they are at least trying to
control the inflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  