-- RWE Expands to Trade U.S. Power, Plans to Grow in Australia
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2012-10-03T09:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/rwe-expands-into-u-s-power-trading-plans-to-grow-in-australia.html
RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest
utility, started trading U.S. electricity and plans to expand
into Australian power as commodities markets become more global.  James Hall has been appointed head trader for U.S. power
and cross-commodities and Sam Lundqvist a senior trader, Hall
said yesterday by telephone from Essen, Germany. Hall previously
bought and sold mainland European power and Lundqvist traded
carbon at RWE Supply & Trading GmbH. Syam Mohan joined as an
analyst from  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and Jim Rouiller was hired as a
meteorologist from Planalytics Inc.  “The increasing influence of renewables and the future
impact of shale gas and oil and the U.S. coal markets will be
relevant factors for the future European markets,” he said.  Germany  is considering the introduction of a capacity
market mechanism to pay power generators to keep unprofitable
electricity plants running. The nation needs to secure backup
power as it builds wind farms and solar parks, which are subject
to irregular output as the weather changes. Capacity markets are
already established in many U.S. regions.  Hall and Lundqvist started trading U.S. power in June while
Mohan and Rouiller began on Oct. 1. The team will be based in
Essen but will work most of the U.S. trading day, Hall said.  “We are focusing on the East coast market, where liquidity
is more than comparable with the German market,” Hall said.  EON AG, Germany’s largest utility, started trading U.S.
power in November 2009 and U.S. gas in May 2010.  RWE Supply & Trading is planning to enter the Australian
power market in the next two quarters, Peter Krembel, the
company’s head of continental European power, said by e-mail on
Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  