-- S. African Airways, Express Seek Hubs in Ghana, East Africa
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2012-10-03T05:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/s-african-airways-express-seek-hubs-in-ghana-east-africa-1-.html
South African Airways , sub-Saharan
Africa’s biggest airline by passengers, may set up hubs in East
and West Africa as it seeks to expand profitable African routes
and compete with companies including  Kenya Airways Ltd. (KNAL)  and
Ethiopian Airlines.  The state-owned company, based in Johannesburg, and its
unit SA Express want to grow in West Africa,  Malusi Gigaba , the
country’s public enterprises minister, said in an interview in
 Accra ,  Ghana ’s capital, yesterday.  “We may want to establish a secondary hub for both South
African Airways and SA Express in Ghana,” he said. “We want to
establish two secondary hubs in East and West Africa.”  South African Airways was yesterday given a 5 billion rand
($598 million) guarantee by the country’s Treasury five days
after its chairwoman, Cheryl Carolus, and most of its board
resigned in a dispute over strategy and the company’s finances.
Gigaba has been pushing the company to focus on more profitable
African routes to lessen dependence on routes to  Europe  where it
faces strong competition.  “It’s crucial for us to access this market,” Gigaba said,
referring to West Africa. “We are implementing a strategy to
fly to virtually every country on the continent. If we are able
to take (customers) to the hub, we can then take them to  South
Africa .”  “Comparative Advantage”  South African Airways has already decided to increase
flights between Johannesburg and Accra to seven from five a
week, he said.  Ghana, West Africa’s second-biggest economy, is debating a
proposal in parliament to invite private investors to set up a
national airline after the collapse of its state-owned carrier
two years ago. South Africa “would be open” to helping Ghana
set up an international carrier, Gigaba said. South African
Airways may seek to partner a Ghanaian airline to service
domestic routes, he said.  “We bring a comparative advantage: we’re an African
airline and we are state-owned and we could establish a
maintenance, repair, and overhaul facility in Ghana to provide
training for young Ghanaians,” he said. “A facility that could
also provide such service to airlines from other parts of West
 Africa .”  Denel Pty Ltd., a state-run defense company, is also
seeking opportunities in maintenance of military aircraft, he
said. “The intention is to synergize the partnership between SA
Express and Denel Aviation,” Gigaba said.  External Growth  South African state-run companies such as rail and port
operator Transnet SOC Ltd. and power utility Eskom Holdings SOC
Ltd. are also exploring investment opportunities in Ghana,
including refurbishing the rail line to the western port of
Takoradi and renewable energy plants, he said.  “Ghana needs a lot of investment in terms of its
infrastructure development because it’s got a massive
infrastructure lag,” Gigaba said. “We are aware there are
other companies from Brazil and  China  looking at the same
things, but we think there is enough scope for us, too.”  The interest of South African state-owned companies in
Ghana comes as privately-owned South African companies such as
retailers  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP)  and  Mr Price Group Ltd. (MPC) , have
opened stores in the country’s biggest shopping mall.  “The state-owned companies in South Africa seek growth
opportunities outside the confines of the South African
market,” Gigaba said. “We see Ghana as a strategic country to
become our gateway into West Africa, in particular in the fields
of aviation and defense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  