-- Samsung, Google, Anonymous: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-03T11:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/samsung-google-anonymous-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. said  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5 infringes its patents, escalating a global fight
over mobile devices after winning a court order lifting a ban on
U.S. sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer.  The world’s largest mobile-phone seller, based in Suwon,
 South Korea , added claims about the iPhone 5, which was released
last month, to an existing patent-infringement lawsuit between
the two companies in federal court in  San Jose ,  California .
Apple won a $1.05 billion jury verdict against Samsung on Aug.
24 in a separate patent case in the same court.  “As soon as the iPhone 5 was available for purchase,
Samsung began its investigation of the product,” the company
said in its Oct. 1 court filing.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh, who is presiding over the
litigation in California, rescinded a ban Oct. 1 on U.S. sales
of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 that she imposed in June.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, contended the ban
should remain in place because the jury found the Galaxy Tab
infringed other patents at issue in the case.  The case in which Samsung added the iPhone 5 claims is
scheduled for trial in 2014. Samsung’s original complaint
identifies the same eight patents as the basis for alleging
infringement by earlier iPhone models, as well as the iPad and
iPod Touch.  Apple already has won a preliminary order from Koh blocking
U.S. sales of Samsung’s Nexus smartphone. In August, Apple added
the Galaxy S III smartphone to its list of products that it says
infringe its patents. Apple said in a Sept. 19 filing that it
expects to add infringement claims about “recently released
Samsung products, including the Android 4.1 Jelly Bean operating
system and the Galaxy Note 10.1 device.”  Koh has scheduled December hearings in that case to
consider Apple’s request for a permanent U.S. sales ban on eight
Samsung smartphone models and the Tab 10.1. She will also
consider Samsung’s bid to get the August verdict thrown out
based on claims of juror misconduct.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment on the court’s order rescinding the Galaxy Tab 10.1
sales ban and Samsung’s filing adding the iPhone 5 infringement
claims.  The case is Apple v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Ltd., 12-
cv-630, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose). The previous case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Jose).  Google’s Motorola Drops One ITC Patent Case Against Apple  Google Inc.’s Motorola Mobility unit said it was
withdrawing a patent-infringement complaint it filed in August
against Apple Inc. at the U.S. International Trade Commission.  Motorola Mobility reserved the right to refile claims
against the iPhone maker, and said there had been no agreement
between the two companies, according to a filing on the ITC’s
electronic docket. It gave no reason for withdrawing the
complaint.  A notice of dismissal also was filed in a companion civil
lawsuit filed in a federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, and Motorola
Mobility, based in Libertyville,  Illinois , have been fighting
about smartphone-related patents since at least 2010 after
licensing talks failed. A non-jury trial on Apple’s claims that
Motorola Mobility violated obligations to license some of its
patents on fair terms is scheduled to begin Nov. 5 in a federal
court in Madison,  Wisconsin .  Neither  Kristin Huguet , a spokeswoman for Apple, nor
Christa Smith, a spokeswoman for Motorola Mobility, had an
immediate comment on withdrawal of the ITC complaint. Dockets in
other cases pending between the companies don’t show other
requests for dismissal.  The case being withdrawn accused Apple of infringing seven
Motorola Mobility patents on features including interactive
voice commands, location reminders, e-mail notification and
phone/video players. Motorola Mobility, which Google bought in
May, said in August it hoped the filing of the suit -- and the
threat against Apple’s iPhone -- would push the two sides into
settlement talks.  Another case is pending at the  Washington  trade agency,
which has the power to block imports of products that infringe
U.S. patents. The commission on Aug. 24 cleared Apple of
infringing three Motorola Mobility patents, and told the judge
to consider whether a fourth patent, for a sensor to protect
against accidental hangups, was infringed.  ITC Judge Thomas Pender, in an order dated yesterday, said
he will make a decision by Dec. 21 on that issue.  The case to be withdrawn is In the Matter of Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
devices, Computers, and Components Thereof, 337-856, and the
earlier case is In the Matter of Certain Wireless Communication
Devices, Portable Music Data, Processing Data Devices, Computers
and Components Thereof, 337-745. Both are in the U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  Xatra Gets Patent on Iris-Scan Identification Payment Method  Xatra Fund MX LLC, a Wilmington, Delaware-based company
that owns patents related to biometric identification, received
a patent for a technology that will permit a user to make a
payment with the blink of an eye.  Patent 8,279,042, issued yesterday, covers iris-scan
biometrics on a payment device.  According to the patent, one aim of the technology is to
identify users of a fob system of payment. Adding iris scans
would permit a credit-card holder to identify which family
member used a fob-payment system at a specific time. This could
also be used for a company credit card with multiple users.  An application for the patent was filed in September 2007.
Xatra is listed as the owner of 16 issued U.S. patents, and nine
published and pending patent applications, according to the
database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office .  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Wrigley Gets Hearing on Trademark Injunction Damages Claim  Mars Inc.’s Wrigley unit is entitled to a hearing on the
damage it would suffer if it’s permanently barred from using
“Swerve” as a name for one of its “ 5 brand ” sugar-free
chewing gum flavors, a federal judge has ruled.  Wrigley filed suit in federal court in  Chicago  in December
2011, seeking a declaration its use of the name didn’t infringe
trademark rights of  Swerve IP  of  New Orleans , the maker of the
Swerve sugar substitute.  In October 2010 Wrigley filed an application to register
“Swerve” with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. In March
2011, Swerve filed papers with the patent office, saying it was
opposed to the issuance of that mark for Wrigley. The chewing
gum maker said it then received a cease-and-desist notice from
Swerve.  In its court filing, Wrigley argues that consumers weren’t
likely to be confused by the similar names and would not falsely
assume a connection between the chewing gum and the sugar
substitute.  In his Sept. 29 ruling, U.S. District Judge Harry D.
Leinenweber rejected Wrigley’s argument, saying customers could
likely be confused by the similar names. He said that both
products are cheap enough that customers aren’t likely to give a
high degree of scrutiny to either purchase.  He also said that in the past, some chewing gum
manufacturers have co-branded their gums with the trademark of
the sugar substitute used in the product. He found that Swerve
would be harmed by Wrigley’s use of the word “Swerve” with its
chewing gum.  The court took into consideration Wrigley’s argument that
it would suffer irreparable harm if it were barred from using
the word on its gum. The gum manufacturer’s evidence was “very
general” and failed to break down such issues as financial
harm, the projected life of the “Swerve” flavor, and whether
there are any alternative products in development.  For these reasons, Leinenweber said Wrigley is entitled to
a hearing on its possible harm and the balancing of harms to the
respective parties and the public.  The proceedings at the patent office were put on hold
pending the conclusion of this case.  The case is Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co., v. Swerve IP LLC, 1:11-
cv-09274, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  Oman’s Government Food Supplier to Seek Trademark for Offerings  Oman’s  Public Authority for Stores and Food Reserve  plans
to establish a trademark for commodities it provides that
nation’s residents, and said it will also work toward improving
the quality of the products it offers, the Oman Daily Observer
 reported .  Rashid bin Salim al Masrouri, who heads the public
authority, said allegations of low-quality products is
undeserved and it supplies “high quality rice at low prices”
compared to the prices charged by non-government rice importers,
according to the Oman Daily Observer.  He noted that some consumers have become accustomed to
specific brands of food products and are unable to change their
preferences, according to the newspaper.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Anonymous Warns Sweden of Hacker Attack After Police Raid on PRQ  Anonymous, the group of Internet activists that has been
active in a fight against copyright enforcement, promised it
will take down Swedish government websites in retaliation for a
police raid on  PRQ , the former webhost for the  Pirate Bay  file-
sharing site, ZDNet  reported .  Anonymous  posted a message  on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video-
sharing service, telling the government to “Expect us,” and
that it was responsible for some denial-of-service attacks on
Swedish government sites last month, ZDNet reported.  Some Swedish police websites, as well as some belonging to
the Swedish military, several banks, and a Swedish  news agency 
were hit with denial-of-service attacks Oct. 1, according to
ZDNet.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Greenberg Traurig Brings in Jonathan David Ball for IP Practice  Greenberg Traurig LLP hired Jonathan David Ball for its IP
and technology practice, the New York-based firm said in a
 statement  yesterday.  Ball , a litigator, joins from Atlanta’s King & Spalding
LLP. He has represented clients in the pharmaceutical,
biotechnology, chemicals, medical devices, semiconductors, food
sciences, consumer products, and mechanical industries. He has
also done transactional work and patent portfolio management.  Before he was a lawyer, he did post-doctoral research at
 Indiana University , working on small-molecule organic synthesis,
synthesis of solid-state organic inclusion compounds and
physical chemistry of organic radicals.  Ball has an undergraduate degree from Vassar College, a
doctorate on organic chemistry from the University of  North
Carolina , and a law degree from the  University of Richmond .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 