-- Samsung Claims Jury Foreman Misconduct Tainted Apple Case
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-10-03T20:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/samsung-claims-jury-foreman-misconduct-tainted-apple-case.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s billion-dollar trial
victory in August was tainted by the jury foreman’s failure to
disclose a lawsuit and his personal bankruptcy,  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  said in a request for dismissal of the verdict.  Samsung said foreman Velvin Hogan was asked during jury
selection whether he’d been involved in lawsuits and didn’t tell
the judge that he had filed for bankruptcy in 1993 and had been
sued by his former employer, Seagate Technology Inc.  Samsung has a “substantial strategic relationship” with
Seagate and the lawyer who filed the complaint against Hogan is
married to an attorney who works for the firm that represented
Samsung in the  trial  against Apple, the Suwon, South Korea-based
company said in a filing yesterday in federal court in  San Jose ,
 California .  “Mr. Hogan’s failure to disclose the Seagate suit raises
issues of bias that Samsung should have been allowed to
explore,” Samsung said in its request for a new trial. The
company also said Hogan’s public statements after the verdict
suggest he failed to answer the court’s questions truthfully to
“secure a seat on the jury.”  The Aug. 24 verdict is part of a global fight for dominance
in the $219 billion global smartphone market. The world’s two
biggest makers of high-end phones have accused each other of
copying designs and technology for  mobile devices  and are waging
patent battles on four continents.  “It is very hard to get a jury verdict thrown out for
juror misconduct,”  Mark Lemley , a Stanford Law School
professor, said in an e-mail. “If he truthfully answered the
questions he was asked, Samsung will have a hard time proving
bias.”  Denied Misconduct  Hogan, in a phone interview yesterday, denied that there
was any misconduct, saying the court instructions for potential
jurors required disclosure of any litigation they were involved
in within the last 10 years -- and that the 1993 bankruptcy and
related litigation involving Seagate fell well outside that time
range.  “Had I been asked an open-ended question with no time
constraint, of course I would’ve disclosed that,” Hogan said,
referring to the bankruptcy and related litigation. “I’m
willing to go in front of the judge to tell her that I had no
intention of being on this jury, let alone withholding anything
that would’ve allowed me to be excused.”  Hogan said once he was selected as a juror he “took it as
an honor” because the suit was related to his job as an
electrical engineer, which he’s done for almost 40 years.  “I answered every question the judge asked me” and
Samsung “had every opportunity to question me,” Hogan said. He
added that he’s surprised Samsung didn’t know about the history
it’s now citing given the relationship the lawyer Samsung refers
to in its filing has with another lawyer at  Quinn Emanuel 
Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, the firm representing the company.  ‘An Excuse’  Hogan said yesterday’s filing has him wondering whether
Samsung “let me in the jury just to have an excuse for a new
trial if it didn’t go in their favor.”  Susan Estrich, a Quinn Emanuel lawyer, wrote in an Oct. 1
filing that Apple demanded to know when Samsung’s lawyers
learned of Seagate’s lawsuit involving Hogan. Samsung “did not
know of Mr. Hogan’s undisclosed litigation against Seagate until
after the verdict,” according to the filing.  Samsung said in a filing yesterday that Diane M. Doolittle,
a partner in the Silicon Valley office of Quinn Emanuel, is
married to Michael F. Grady, the attorney who filed the 1993
complaint against Hogan on behalf of Seagate. The lawsuit was a
breach of contract claim over a loan Seagate said it to have
made to Hogan for $25,000.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to comment on Samsung’s filing.  Adam Yates , a spokesman in the U.S. for Samsung, didn’t
respond to an e-mail yesterday seeking comment on Hogan’s
remarks.  Unanimous Verdict  The nine-member panel reached a unanimous verdict in three
days of deliberations following the trial. The jury awarded
Apple $1.05 billion after finding that Samsung infringed six of
seven patents at issue. Apple is using the verdict to seek a
permanent U.S. sales ban on eight Samsung smartphones and a
tablet computer.  Hogan, who told the court he had served on three juries in
civil cases, spent seven years working with lawyers to obtain
his own patent covering “video compression software,” a hobby
of his. He worked in the computer hard-drive industry for 35
years at companies including Memorex Corp., Colorado-based
Storage Technology Corp. and Massachusetts-based Digital
Equipment Corp.  Based in part on that experience, jurors elected him
foreman, Hogan said in an interview in August. The only
dissenting vote was his own, he said.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  