-- Jets’ Santonio Holmes Lost for Season With Foot Ligament Injury
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-03T17:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/santonio-holmes-is-out-for-season-with-foot-injury-ryan-says.html
New York Jets wide receiver  Santonio Holmes  will miss the rest of the National Football League season
because of a foot injury sustained in a loss to the  San
Francisco 49ers , coach  Rex Ryan  said.  Holmes, 28, was diagnosed with a Lisfranc injury in his
left foot and will need surgery, leading the team to officially
end his season by placing him on the injured reserve list, Ryan
said during a televised news conference today.  While Holmes was the Jets’ most skilled offensive weapon,
the team lost its best defensive player, All-Pro cornerback
 Darrelle Revis , to a torn knee ligament Sept. 23. Revis also is
probably out for the season, Ryan said.  “It’s something we wish didn’t happen to one of our best
players but that’s, unfortunately, part of this business,” Ryan
said of Holmes today. “It does check the resolve of your team,
but I think that’s one of our strengths.”  To replace Holmes, the Jets signed wide receiver Jason Hill, who played the last two seasons for the  Jacksonville
Jaguars . Hill has 76 receptions for 1,028 yards and eight
touchdowns over five NFL seasons.  The Jets, at 2-2, host the undefeated  Houston Texans  on
Oct. 8 at MetLife Stadium in  East Rutherford ,  New Jersey .  Holmes injured the foot without contact on Sept. 30 while
making a four-yard reception in the third quarter of New York’s
34-0 loss. Holmes fumbled as he fell to the ground, with San
Francisco’s Carlos Rogers recovering the ball and returning it
51 yards for a touchdown.  Torn Ligament  The injury involves a torn ligament through the arch of the
foot and often requires surgery, according to Steven Weinfeld,
an orthopaedic surgeon who is chief of foot and ankle service at
Mount Sinai School of Medicine in  New York .  “Those ligaments take about four to six months to heal,
whether you do surgery or not,” Weinfeld said in a telephone
interview. “It’s potentially a career-threatening injury.”  An injury like this can lead to arthritis of the joints
that are involved in the dislocation, potentially affecting the
ability to generate power and speed from the foot, said
Weinfeld, who has no direct knowledge of Holmes’s injury. The
Jets expect Holmes to make a complete recovery, Ryan said.  Other NFL players who have had Lisfranc injuries include
Michael Strahan,  Justin Tuck , Duce Staley, Brian Dawkins and
Brian Westbrook.  Holmes leads the team with 20 catches for 272 yards this
season, his third with the Jets, scoring one touchdown. He had
52 receptions for 654 yards and eight scores in 2011.  The Jets’ active wide receiver corps also includes rookie
 Stephen Hill , second-year players Clyde Gates and Jeremy Kerley
and five-year veteran Chaz Schilens. Hill has five catches for
89 yards and two touchdowns this season. Kerley has 10
receptions, while Schilens has six this year and 78 for his
career.  “Gates is going to have to step up,” Ryan said of his
receiver with one catch. “He’s a guy with tremendous speed,
he’s learning the system, so we’ll see what he can do,” Ryan
said of Gates, who has one reception.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  