-- Sarepta Rises on Muscular Dystrophy Results: Boston Mover
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-03T20:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/sarepta-therapeutics-rises-on-muscular-dystrophy-results.html
Sarepta Therapeutics Inc. (SRPT)  tripled in
trading after its drug for Duchenne muscular dystrophy helped
patients walk farther in a study and restored a key protein
lacking in some of those with the disease.  Sarepta surged 200 percent to $44.93 at the close in  New
York , its biggest increase since 1997, after the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based biotechnology company said its experimental
drug eteplirsen met the primary goal of the mid-stage study.  Patients who took 50 milligrams of eteplirsen once a week
for 48 weeks could walk 89 meters (292 feet) farther during a
six-minute test than those who took a placebo for 24 weeks and
the drug for 24 weeks, Sarepta said today in a statement. The
medicine may offer new promise against a disease in which
current therapy only extends life and make it easier, rather
than reverses the effects.  “With this study the boys actually got stronger, a pretty
impressive result,” said Valerie Cwik, interim president of the
Muscular Dystrophy Association in Tucson,  Arizona .  Eteplirsen repairs a gene mutation in about 13 percent of
Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients, helping them produce a
missing protein and regain strength, Sarepta said in its
statement.  $100,000 Help  Current therapy includes prednisone, a corticosteroid that
can have the added side effect of weight gain, Cwik said. The
association gave $100,000 to assist families who participated in
Sarepta’s study with travel, she said.  Kimberly Lee, an analyst with ThinkEquity Partners in  San
Francisco , and  Edward Tenthoff , an analyst with Piper Jaffray &
Co., in New York, said Sarepta may file for approval based on
the early results on the condition the company proves full
benefit of the drug once it’s on the market, a process known as
accelerated approval.  Tenthoff said he expected early approval, while Lee said
eteplirsen will have to go through the normal approval process
that will require another larger trial. The drug may reach peak
annual sales of $600 million, Tenthoff estimated.  The trial studied four patients who received 50 milligrams
of eteplirsen for 48 weeks and four patients who took the
placebo first.  First-Ever Opportunities  The results “may lead to first-ever opportunities to
target serious and life-threatening rare conditions at the
origin of disease,” said Sarepta Chief Executive Officer Chris Garabedian in the statement.  Sarepta’s eteplirsen is made by manipulating RNA, or
ribonucleic acid, which controls protein synthesis. RNA-based
therapeutics can attack diseases by turning targeted proteins on
or off, according to Sarepta.  The study results “signify the promise and tremendous
potential of our RNA-based technology to impact and modulate
disease at the genetic level,” Garabedian said.  Symptoms for Duchenne muscular dystrophy, which usually
appears in boys before age 6, include loss of muscle tissue in
the legs and pelvis and eventually throughout the body,
according to the  National Institutes of Health . Duchenne also
causes learning difficulties, muscle weakness and mental
retardation. The ability to walk may be lost by age 12.  Patients who took a 30 milligram-dose of eteplirsen didn’t
experience a statistically significant benefit over those who
began treatment on placebo. There were no adverse events.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  