-- Scene Last Night: Jeff Koons, Aby Rosen, Caroline Kennedy
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-10-03T15:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/scene-last-night-jeff-koons-aby-rosen-caroline-kennedy.html
“This color is the perfect color for
art,” said Jessica Hart of her bright-red gown, with her date,
Stavros Niarchos, nearby. “On any other night, I’d stand out
like a sore thumb. Tonight it fits right in.”  Hart was standing in a tent on the Seagram Plaza last night
for the 35th anniversary gala of  Studio in a School , a nonprofit
that brings working artists to teach in  New York  City public-
school classrooms. It was founded by collector Agnes Gund during
the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970s when funding for art
education was cut.  Hanging from the transparent tent roof -- allowing views of
dodged rain drops -- were ribbons of cloth painted red, green
and blue. The walls were decorated with artwork by students.
City Council Speaker Christine Quinn especially noted a portrait
of a penguin in a party hat.  Actor  Joel Grey  opened the program with a rendition of
“Willkommen” from “Cabaret” slightly altered for the
occasion. “Here life is beautiful, the girls are beautiful.
Aggie Gund is beautiful,  Martha Stewart  is beautiful, even the
orchestra is beautiful.” It ended with a high-pitched “Bon
appetit.”  Over a “TV Dinner” of chicken pot pie from one of  Danny Meyer ’s kitchens, designer Mary-Kate Olsen sat at one end of a
long banquet table with company including designer Shoshanna
Lonstein Gruss, wife of Josh Gruss of Gruss & Co., Tania
Higgins, wife of Brian Higgins, of King Street Capital
Management LP, and Mary Snow, wife of Ian Snow, of Snow Phipps
Group LLC.  Tom Cahill  From the stage came accolades for Studio in a School’s
president and chief executive officer, Tom Cahill, who has led
the operation since 1979, helping it reach more than 750,000
children. In appreciation, Gund gave the honoree a work by
Philip Guston.  Caroline Kennedy, an honorary director of the board of the
Fund for Public Schools, also came to the stage. “The arts is
what makes kids want to come to school,” Kennedy said. “It
helps them chart their own path.”  Lastly  Jeff Koons , the artist honoree of the event, talked
about his art education. He recalled “when I was three,
starting to be educated in how to put together Popsicle
sticks.” For him art became a “vehicle to externalize
information, information that’s a different form of abstraction
than verbal language.”  The last speaker was psychiatrist Samantha Boardman Rosen,
whose husband, developer Aby Rosen, had lent the Seagram Plaza
for the event.  Camel Challenge  Art teaches problem solving, Boardman Rosen said. “When
you draw a turtle and it starts to look like a camel, what do
you do?” Art also teaches grit. “And the only way you develop
grit is by getting your hands dirty, and that requires art
supplies.”  As waiters brought out all the ingredients for make-your-
own sundaes, guests mingled around giant coils of green and
copper foil. Art dealers  Larry Gagosian  and Vito Schnabel
huddled, while collector Jo Carole Lauder planted a kiss on
sculptor Joel Shapiro.  The sundae dishes at the tables revealed circular placemats
featuring drawings of girls and boys, a tiger, a turkey and an
apple, made in classrooms at such schools as PS 200 in
 Manhattan , PS 268 in Queens, and PS 59 in  Brooklyn . Many guests
took theirs home; some left with proper sets of four, having
negotiated with tablemates.  The event drew 400 guests and raised more than $2 million.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining, Martin
Gayford on  art .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  