-- SEC Charges Dark-Pool Operator for Sharing Confidential Data
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 2012-10-03T22:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/sec-charges-dark-pool-operator-for-sharing-confidential-data-3-.html
Dark-pool operator eBX LLC agreed to
pay an $800,000 penalty to settle charges that it failed to
protect customers’ confidential trading information, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said.  The payment also settles allegations that eBX, which runs
the  Level ATS  dark pool, failed to tell subscribers that it
allowed a technology firm to use data about unexecuted orders,
the SEC said today in a statement. The outside company was
identified as Lava Trading, a unit of  Citigroup Inc. (C)  that built
the dark pool, in a letter from Level ATS to clients that was
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “Dark pools are dark for a reason: buyers and sellers
expect confidentiality of their trading information,”  Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s director of the division of enforcement, said
in the statement. “Many eBX subscribers didn’t get the benefit
of that bargain.”  The SEC has penalized exchanges and brokerages at least
three times in the last month for rule violations. NYSE Euronext
was ordered to pay $5 million to resolve claims that the New
York Stock Exchange gave certain customers a head start on
quotation and transaction market data, and the SEC charged a New
York-based brokerage for allowing overseas clients to run a
scheme aimed at distorting stock prices.  Routing Decisions  One of the key features of dark pools is that they don’t
identify the brokers and institutions that buy and sell on their
systems and give out no information about their orders. The
platforms are designed to avoid the market impact of trading
requests by keeping them out of public view until the moment a
transaction is completed.  EBX allowed the technology company access to information
about unexecuted orders for its own business purposes, according
to the statement from the SEC. The outside firm was able to use
the knowledge to make routing decisions for its own customer
orders in a separate business, the SEC said. Lava’s so-called
smart order router, which decides how and when to send trade
requests to different venues, is known as  ColorBook .  Level ATS, a dark pool or alternative trading system that
doesn’t display price quotes to the public, began operating in
October 2006. Boston-based eBX was formed by Citigroup, Credit
Suisse Group AG,  Fidelity Investments , Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and Merrill Lynch & Co.  Equity Volume  Level accounted for 0.7 percent of U.S. equities volume, or
a daily average of more than 37 million shares, in August,
according to data compiled by Rosenblatt Securities Inc. Credit
Suisse’s Crossfinder, the largest U.S. dark pool, traded more
than 90 million shares a day, the Sept. 24 report said.  “At the end of the day, a lot of the securities business
is based on trust,” Sang Lee, managing partner at Boston-based
research firm Aite Group LLC, said in a telephone interview.
“Nothing good will come out of the fact that they wound up
sharing information with a technology vendor. It gives an
advantage to one client over others.”  The SEC  said  the outside firm’s order-routing business
“received an information advantage over other Level subscribers
because it was able to use its knowledge of their orders to make
routing decisions for its own customers’ orders and increase its
execution rate.” Armed with pricing information about orders at
Level, the firm could send trade requests to Level or elsewhere
based on where it could get a better price, the SEC said.  Lava Trading  Lava Trading, which built and operates Level, has provided
technology to the venue since it began trading in 2006, Whit Conary, chief executive officer of Level ATS, said in the letter
to clients today. The firm was required to keep Level’s order
information private. In 2008, Lava asked Level if it could use
data about the dark pool’s orders to improve its own decisions
about where to send buy and sell requests from its customers and
received permission, Conary said in the letter.  The SEC’s administrative order against Level did not
mention Lava by name and didn’t say the technology company did
anything wrong. Scott Helfman, a spokesman for Citigroup,
declined to comment.  The regulatory sanction follows the disclosure by Liquidnet
Holdings Inc. in June that the SEC was investigating the dark-
pool operator for shortcomings in how it guarded private
information about firms using its platform. Pipeline Trading
Systems LLC settled government allegations in 2011 that it
failed to provide the liquidity and confidentiality it
advertised to customers of its dark pool.  Other Requests  Level, which had declined requests by other dark pools and
exchanges for information about orders at the venue, decided
that Lava’s plan wouldn’t give the firm data it didn’t already
possess as a technology provider and that the data wouldn’t be
disclosed to ColorBook users or other parties, Conary wrote.
Lava stopped using the feature in April 2011, the letter said.  Level violated  Regulation ATS , a set of rules for
alternative trading venues, from at least 2008 until early 2011,
according to the SEC. The regulator said it found no evidence
that information about Level’s unexecuted orders were shown or
sent to clients of the technology firm’s order-routing business
or other parties. It also said the firm didn’t get better prices
at Level than it would have received without employing the
“memory feature” that gave it information about orders at
Level.  The dark pool operator didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing in
settling with the SEC.  Keep Confidential  “Lava has always been obligated to maintain the
confidentiality of customer information,” Conary said in an e-
mail. “As the SEC itself stated in the order, at no time was
customer information displayed to any customer placing orders or
making trading decisions. Lava’s smart router was permitted to
use the customer information resident within our trading system
solely to make routing decisions.”  The technology company’s order-routing business benefited
by being able to send buy requests to Level when it knew a sell
order was waiting or vice versa, the SEC said. It filled between
30 percent and 70 percent of orders that had to be completed
immediately or canceled that were sent to Level from about May
2008 through June 2009, compared with 1 percent to 2 percent for
other subscribers, the commission said.  The company accounted for between 4 percent and 11 percent
of shares traded in Level during that period, the SEC said.  The broker affiliated with Level’s technology provider also
enabled a stock market it ran to make routing decisions based on
order information from the dark pool, the SEC said. Citigroup
operates  LavaFlow ECN , an electronic communications network.  “The fact that Level has apparently violated these rules
and the promised conduct by which they operate is a grave
misstep,” Matt Samelson, principal at Woodbine Associates Inc.,
a research firm based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in an
email. “Customers have to trust their brokers and ATS
operators. This means outlining the rules of engagement and
following them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  