-- Service Industries in U.S. Probably Little Changed in September
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-10-03T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/service-industries-in-u-s-probably-little-changed-in-september.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
probably expanded in September at about the same pace as in the
prior month, indicating the biggest part of the economy is
making scant progress, economists said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  non-manufacturing 
index, which covers almost 90 percent of the economy, fell to
53.4 last month from 53.7 in August, according to the median
forecast of 77 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Readings higher
than 50 signal growth. Another report may show employers added
fewer workers.  Service providers such as  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  are cutting growth
forecasts as the global economy weakens and American companies
curb investments in new equipment. At the same time, a recovery
in housing is benefiting builders like  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  and helping
sustain the U.S. expansion.  “The services industries in the U.S. are in kind of a
steady state,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s index, which covers
industries ranging from utilities and retailing to health care,
housing and finance, is due at 10 a.m. Bloomberg survey
estimates ranged from 51.5 to 54.7.  The group’s  manufacturing  index, released Oct. 1,
unexpectedly expanded in September after three months of
contraction, the longest such stretch since the recession ended
in June 2009.  Homebuilding may be among the best performers. New housing
construction climbed in August, boosted by the strongest pace of
single-family starts in more than two years, Commerce Department
figures showed last month.  Borrowing Costs  Mortgage  rates  at all-time lows and cheaper properties are
driving sales for companies like Lennar. The third-largest
builder by revenue said on Sept. 24 that its quarterly profit
more than quadrupled from a year earlier.  “The homebuilding business is beginning to revert to
normal and that’s positive for the  U.S. economy  in general,
which is in turn good for a sustained recovery in the housing
market,”  Stuart Miller , chief executive officer at Lennar, said
on a conference call. “Overall demand has been improving and
we’ve seen a consistent sales pace at improving prices.”  Investors have taken notice. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilder Index has climbed 74 percent this
year, outpacing a 15 percent gain for the broader  S&P 500 Index .  Delivery Service  For FedEx, operator of the world’s largest cargo airline,
weaker global growth is taking a toll. On Sept. 18 the economic
bellwether, because it ships goods from financial documents to
electronics, pared its forecast for 2012 U.S. growth to 1.9
percent from a June projection of 2.4 percent. The global
expansion will cool to 2.3 percent this year, followed by a
2.7 percent gain in 2013, the Memphis-based company said.  Unemployment stuck above 8 percent for more than three
years and limited job growth are also a drag for the services
industry. Figures at 8:15 a.m. today from the ADP Employer
Services may show private employers hired 140,000 workers in
September after 201,000 the prior month, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  