-- Shiarly Says First Bailout Payment May Come at End-December
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-10-03T10:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/shiarly-says-first-bailout-payment-may-come-at-end-december-1-.html
Cypriot Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly said the country may receive a first instalment of
international financial aid at the end of December.  The Cabinet meets later today to discuss the 2013 budget,
which it intends to submit to parliament on Oct. 20, Shiarly
told reporters today in the capital, Nicosia. The budget will
include austerity measures to be proposed to the so-called
troika that oversees euro-area bailouts, he said. The troika
comprises officials from the European Commission,  European
Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund .  “The timeframe is very tight,” Shiarly said. “We’re
doing whatever we can.” After an agreement is reached with the
troika, Cyprus’s bailout plan must be approved by euro-area
finance ministers. If this happens by mid-November, funds could
be disbursed as early as the end of December, he said.  The Cypriot government, shut out of markets since May 2011,
may struggle to pay its bills in December if the bailout is
delayed.  Cyprus, which had 492.4 million euros ($637 million) in the
bank at the end of August, faces 751 million euros of maturing
debt through the end of November, according to the  Finance
Ministry . The government also has monthly outlays for wages,
subsidies and social programs, with a larger year-end wage
payment due in December.  Cyprus on June 25 became the fifth country in the euro area
to seek external aid. Euro-area finance ministers agreed to
begin talks two days later. No amount was specified for the
rescue, which will encompass the public sector as well as banks.
Cyprus also sought assistance from  Russia  and the IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  