-- Slovenia to Ratify Croatia EU Entry Quickly, Minister Say
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-10-03T12:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/slovenia-to-ratify-croatia-eu-entry-quickly-minister-say.html
Slovenia will ratify  Croatia ’s
European Union membership quickly once issues surrounding Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. are solved, Foreign Minister Karel Erjavec said.  Croatia, which needs Slovenia to ratify its entry to the
bloc in July 2013, has barred NLB from operating on its soil
while a dispute over money owed to Croats by the lender’s
predecessor remains unsettled. The government in Zagreb
yesterday asked Slovenia in a letter to jointly approach the
 Bank for International Settlements  to find a solution even
though the Basel-based bank rejected a mediator’s role in 2010.  “The letter from yesterday has accelerated the
ratification process,” Erjavec told reporters in the capital
Ljubljana today. “If Croatia also withdraws the lawsuits it
filed over the Slovenian bank’s debt at Croatian courts, then
the ratification process could move on quickly.”  Slovenia, a European Union member since 2004, must ratify
Croatia’s accession contract before its southern neighbor
becomes the 28th member of the world’s largest trading bloc next
year. The dispute has strained relations between the two
countries ever since they gained independence from Yugoslavia in
1991 along with a border dispute that the two nations agreed to
settle via a special tribunal.  The Ljubljana-based bank’s debt is estimated at 312 million
deutsche marks ($204 million), the former German currency that
was widely used in former  Yugoslavia .  The row over NLB has been evaluated by experts from both
countries, France Arhar and Zdenko Rogic, who will meet in the
Alpine resort of Bled, Slovenia, tomorrow and propose a final
solution, according to Erjavec.  After that, the Slovenian government will look into the
proposal and start the ratification process, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  