-- Slovenia’s Nova Kreditna Fails to Meet Capital Levels, EBA Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-10-03T16:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/slovenia-s-nova-kreditna-fails-to-meet-capital-levels-eba-says.html
Nova Kreditna Banka (KBMR)  Maribor d.d.,
Slovenia’s second-biggest lender by assets, failed to meet
capital requirements along with three other banks in  Europe .  The state-owned bank, based in the country’s northern city
of Maribor, doesn’t meet the required capital levels, the
European Banking Authority, the European Union’s top banking
regulator, said on its website today.  “The bank needs at least 100 million euros ($129 million)
in fresh capital as it will probably report a loss this year,
similar to last year’s,” which was around 80 million euros,
said Andraz Grahek, an independent financial analyst and a
former fund manager at KD Funds LLC in Ljubljana. “They will
probably  have to sell the insurer Zavarovalnica Maribor d.d. to
improve their capital ratios.”  Slovenian state-owned banks are at the center of investors’
concern that the former Yugoslav republic may be forced to seek
an international bailout to prop up the financial industry. The
government of Prime Minister Janez Jansa proposed legislation to
create a so-called bad bank to hold bad loans from lenders such
as Nova Kreditna and Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and clean up
their balance sheets.  In return, lenders would get government-guaranteed bonds of
as much as to 4 billion euros, Finance Minister Janez Sustersic
has said.  An additional 1 billion euros would be injected directly
into banks, Sustersic has said.  As the results were announced, Nova Kreditna said it is
working to improve its core Tier 1 capital ratio to above 9
percent and the process should be completed by year’s end, the
bank said in an e-mailed statement.  “The bank’s business goes on as usual, the company is
liquid and solvent,” it said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  