-- SolarWorld Makes Case Against China as U.S. Eyes Trade Penalties
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-10-03T23:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/solarworld-makes-case-against-china-as-u-s-eyes-trade-penalties.html
U.S. solar-energy manufacturers told
regulators yesterday that China is unfairly supporting its
domestic industry and defended punitive tariffs on imports from
the Asian nation.  Chinese exports of crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells
and modules have flooded the global market, leading to a price
collapse, Gordon Brinser, president of  SolarWorld AG (SWV) ’s U.S.
unit, told an International Trade Commission hearing in
Washington.  “China’s massive government-funded solar capacity has
caused this material injury,” he said “The import surge has
been devastating to the U.S. industry.”  The dispute has become a flashpoint in increasingly tense
trade relations between China and the U.S., the world’s largest
economies, as American elections loom. President  Barack Obama 
and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  have sparred over U.S.
enforcement of China’s adherence to global trade rules.  The ITC will determine by early November whether the U.S.
manufacturers led by SolarWorld have been harmed by imports. If
the commission decides the imports have injured the
manufacturers, duties set by the U.S. Commerce Department can
continue. The department imposed preliminary duties in May and
is scheduled to announce a final ruling Oct. 10.  Members of Congress, looking to protect jobs in their
districts, have also taken up the issue.  ‘Alarming Rate’  “Chinese producers have continued to ship dumped and
subsidized products into this country at an alarming and
unacceptable rate,” 18 Democratic U.S. House members led by
Oregon Representatives Suzanne Bonamici and Kurt Schrader said
yesterday in an Oct. 2 letter to the ITC commissioners. “This
is devastating to our domestic solar-manufacturing industry and
costing us critical manufacturing jobs.”  Senators  Ron Wyden  and  Jeff Merkley  of Oregon, as well as
 Charles Schumer  of New York and  Sherrod Brown  of Ohio, all
Democrats, sent the commission an identical letter.  The Commerce Department determined in May that Chinese-made
solar sells were being sold in the U.S. below cost and imposed
preliminary duties of 31 percent to 250 percent. In March, the
agency set separate tariffs as high as 4.73 percent on the goods
to counter Chinese subsidies to its manufacturers.  Industry Split  The dispute has split the U.S. solar industry, with
installers, developers and some manufacturers opposing the
duties on Chinese imports.  Tom Gutierrez, the chief executive officer of  GT Advanced
Technologies Inc. (GTAT) , a Merrimack, New Hampshire-based supplier of
solar-manufacturing gear, mostly for  China , said seeking tariffs
against the Chinese is shortsighted and will end up costing the
U.S. jobs.  “The Chinese are going to counterattack,” he said in an
interview. “Prices are going to go up, installations are going
to be less profitable for the installation companies,” he said,
predicting “significant loss of jobs.”  Opponents of SolarWorld’s position say solar-energy prices
have declined partly due to U.S. incentives as well as
competition from other sources of energy including natural gas.  “There are economic, political and regulatory forces in
the United States that are driving down the cost of solar”
energy, Kevin Lapidus, senior vice president for legal and
government affairs at SunEdison LLC, a subsidiary of St. Peters,
Missouri-based  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR)  said at the ITC
hearing.  Beyond Solar  The energy-related trade dispute between China and the U.S.
has moved beyond solar gear. The Commerce Department is weighing
anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties on wind-tower imports from
the Asian nation.  China has said that clean-energy policies in at least five
U.S. states violate World Trade Organization rules. It also
filed a WTO complaint against the U.S. in May, alleging that
anti-subsidy measures negatively affected $7.3 billion in
Chinese goods.  Additionally, since March, the U.S. Trade Representative’s
office has filed WTO complaints against China for limiting
exports of rare-earth elements and levying duties on American
autos, primarily from  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC.  “China is often in compliance with the letter of its WTO
commitments, yet falls short of the spirit of the WTO,”
sometimes favoring domestic goods over those produced by
international competitors, John Frisbie, president of the U.S.-
China Business Council, said in comments filed with USTR on
Sept. 17.  “These shortcomings create an unlevel playing field for
many foreign companies” that are trying to establish operations
in China, as well as those already operating there, he said. The
Washington-based organization’s members include  companies such
as  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  Wal-Mart Stores (WMT)  Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  