-- SolarWorld Says Unfair China Policies Rate Import Penalties
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-10-03T23:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/solarworld-says-china-s-unfair-subsidies-warrant-import-penalty.html
U.S. solar-energy manufacturers led
by  SolarWorld AG (SWV)  said they were forced to close plants and lay
off workers because of unfair Chinese government policies, as
they tried to persuade regulators that the U.S. should continue
to impose penalties on imports from the Asian nation.  Chinese exports of crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells
and modules have flooded the global market, leading to a price
collapse, Gordon Brinser, president of SolarWorld’s U.S. unit,
said today at an International Trade Commission hearing in
Washington.  “ China ’s massive government-funded solar capacity has
caused this material injury,” Brinser said. “The import surge
has been devastating to the U.S. industry.”  The dispute has become a flashpoint in increasingly tense
trade relations between China and the U.S., the world’s largest
economies, as American elections loom. President  Barack Obama 
and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney , who face off in their
first presidential debate tonight, have sparred over U.S.
enforcement of China’s adherence to global trade rules. Members
of Congress, looking to protect jobs in their districts, have
also taken up the issue.  ‘Alarming Rate’  “Chinese producers have continued to ship dumped and
subsidized products into this country at an alarming and
unacceptable rate,” a group of 18 Democratic U.S. House members
led by Oregon Representatives Suzanne Bonamici and Kurt Schrader
said yesterday in a letter to the ITC commissioners. “This is
devastating to our domestic solar-manufacturing industry and
costing us critical manufacturing jobs.”  Senators  Ron Wyden  and  Jeff Merkley  of Oregon, as well as
 Charles Schumer  of New York and  Sherrod Brown  of Ohio, all
Democrats, sent the commission an identical letter.  Tom Gutierrez, the chief executive officer of  GT Advanced
Technologies Inc. (GTAT) , a Merrimack, New Hampshire-based supplier of
solar-manufacturing gear, mostly for China, said seeking tariffs
against the Chinese is shortsighted and will end up costing the
U.S. jobs.  ‘Counterattack’ Predicted  “The Chinese are going to counterattack,” he said in an
interview. “Prices are going to go up, installations are going
to be less profitable for the installation companies,” he said,
predicting “significant loss of jobs.”  The problem is with the ITC process, Gutierrez said.
“Nowhere in their equation are they able to account for
collateral damage.”  The Commerce Department on May 17 announced preliminary
duties ranging from 31 percent to 250 percent on imports of
Chinese-made solar cells, after determining that the products
were sold in the U.S. below cost. The agency in March set
separate tariffs as high as 4.73 percent on the goods to counter
subsidies from China. The department’s final ruling on anti-
dumping and countervailing duties is scheduled for Oct. 10.  In order for the tariffs to be imposed, the ITC must
determine that U.S. manufacturers have been harmed by imports
from China. A final decision by the commission is scheduled for
next month.  ‘Highly Misleading’  SolarWorld’s assertion that it has been harmed by Chinese
government policies is “simplistic and highly misleading,”
Richard Weiner, an attorney with Sidley Austin LLP representing
manufacturers including China’s  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , said
at today’s hearing.  Opponents of SolarWorld’s position say solar-energy prices
have declined partly due to U.S. government policies and
competition from other sources of energy including natural gas.  “There are economic, political and regulatory forces in
the United States that are driving down the cost of solar”
energy, Kevin Lapidus, senior vice president for legal and
government affairs at SunEdison LLC, a subsidiary of St. Peters,
Missouri-based  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR)  said at the ITC
hearing.  The energy-related trade dispute between China and the U.S.
has moved beyond solar gear. The Commerce Department is weighing
anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties on wind-tower imports from
China. China has said that clean-energy policies in at least
five U.S. states violate World Trade Organization rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  