-- South Sudan Urged by Rights Group to End Torture of Civilians
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-10-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/south-sudan-urged-by-rights-group-to-end-torture-of-civilians.html
Amnesty International urged South
 Sudan ’s government to prevent security forces from torturing and
abusing civilians in the restive Jonglei state.  Researchers working in Jonglei’s Pibor county documented
reports of civilians being shot dead, raped, beaten and tortured
by having their heads forced under water by police and members
of the army, which is known as the SPLA, the London-based
advocacy group said in an e-mailed statement today. Army
spokesman Phillip Aguer had his phone turned off and government
spokesman Barnaba Marial Benjamin didn’t answer his phone when
called for comment.  “Far from bringing security to the region, the SPLA and
the police auxiliary forces have committed shocking human-rights
violations and the authorities are doing very little to stop the
abuse,” Audrey Gaughran, Amnesty International’s Africa
director, said in the statement.  South Sudan began a disarmament campaign in Jonglei in the
wake of clashes late 2011 and early this year in which about
8,000 members of the Lou Nuer community attacked the ethnic
Murle group in Pibor. The United Nations said about 900 people,
mostly Murle, were killed in raids and counter-attacks from
December to February. In addition, the UN said about 1,000
people from both ethnic groups died in clashes throughout 2011.  Aguer and Benjamin have previously said the authorities are 
investigating and prosecuting officers who commit abuses.  Oil Concession  Jonglei, an eastern state bordering  Ethiopia , is mostly
covered by the Block B oil concession that was split by the
government into three blocks last month. Chinese, European and
U.S. companies, including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,
are among the bidders for exploration rights in two of the new
blocks, Benjamin said on Sept. 26. The third will be handed to
Total SA, which previously controlled the entire Block B, he
said.  The disarmament campaign in Jonglei has been criticized by
organizations including New York-based Human Rights Watch and
the UN peacekeeping mission, which have both accused security
forces of carrying out abuses in Pibor.   Amnesty  said the government should do more to investigate
attacks and to monitor the disarmament campaign. It also urged
the UN to deploy peacekeepers to areas where there is potential
for soldiers to commit abuses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 