-- Study Says Ads More Negative as Obama Outpaces Romney
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-10-03T17:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/study-says-ads-more-negative-as-obama-outpaces-romney.html
Television ads in this year’s U.S.
presidential race are more negative in tone than in any of the
previous three White House campaigns, according to a report
today by the Wesleyan Media Project.  Almost two-thirds of presidential ads on the air between
June 1 and Sept. 30 were negative, compared to about 40 percent
during that period in 2008. In 2004, 34 percent of the ads in
that period were negative, while for 2000 the figure was 18
percent, the report said.  Fewer than 8 percent of presidential ads on the air between
Sept. 9-30 were positive. Ads promoting President  Barack Obama 
during that three-week period dropped from about 28 percent in
2008 to 2.5 percent this year. Ads promoting the Republican
presidential candidate, Senator  John McCain  in 2008 and former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  this year, declined from 32
percent to 15 percent.  “It will come as no surprise to those who have been
bombarded with advertising in key markets, but 2012 is another
record-setting year in terms of the amount of negativity we’re
seeing in the presidential race,” Erika Franklin Fowler, co-
director of the Wesleyan Media Project, said in a news release.  The project is associated with  Wesleyan University  in
Middletown,  Connecticut . The presidential advertising study
analyzed data gathered by Kantar Media’s CMAG, an ad tracker
based in  New York .  Ad Placement  Wesleyan’s report also analyzed the volume of presidential
advertising throughout most of September -- and where those
spots aired.  Obama’s campaign aired 83,080 spots in that time, more than
double the Romney campaign’s 36,406, the report said. It said
Obama and Democratic allies supporting him with advertising had
more commercials on air in 14 of 15 key markets in swing states,
those with a history of voting for either major party nominee in
presidential races.  “The heavy Obama advantage may be one reason why polling
in battleground states has moved against Romney in recent
weeks,” Fowler said.  Only in  Las Vegas  were Romney and his Republican allies,
including the party and several super-political action
committees, on air more often.  Priorities USA Action, a super-PAC run by former Obama
aides, announced today that it would begin airing ads in  Nevada ,
shifting its money into that state at the expense of markets in
Florida and Wisconsin, two larger swing states. An NBC News/Wall
Street Journal/Marist College poll last week showed Obama and
Romney essentially tied in Nevada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  