-- Sukuk Taking Flight as Airline Readies Debut Sale: Turkey Credit
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-10-03T11:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/sukuk-taking-flight-as-airline-readies-debut-sale-turkey-credit.html
Turkey’s Islamic bond market is
gathering momentum as companies from the national airline to the
biggest telephone operator plan offerings after the government
sold its first local-currency sukuk.  Turk Hava Yollari AO, or Turkish Airlines, and  Turk
Telekomunikasyon AS (TTKOM)  have contacted banks that may be hired for a
sale, people familiar with the matter said yesterday. The
government raised 1.62 billion liras ($904 million) from its
first sale of lira-denominated sukuk yesterday. The yield on its
$1.5 billion debut sukuk sold Sept. 18 has dropped seven basis
points to 2.95 percent yesterday compared with average yields of
3.15 percent for the Gulf Cooperation Council debt, based on
data compiled by Bloomberg and the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC U.S.
Dollar Sukuk Index.  The government’s dollar sukuk sale set a benchmark for
companies in a market luring Middle East investors seeking to
diversify. Global sales of sukuk, which comply with Islam’s ban
on interest, rose above $37 billion for 2012, beating last
year’s record $36.7 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The government has “opened up the possibility for other
corporates to come in and issue,” Abdul Kadir Hussain, Dubai-
based Chief Executive Officer of Mashreq Capital DIFC Ltd., who
bought  Turkey ’s dollar sukuk, said by phone Oct. 1. “The
underlying long-term story for Turkey is still positive in terms
of the momentum and the direction of the economy.”  Turk Telekom  Turkey’s gross domestic product may expand about 3 percent
this year, according to the estimates of 20 economists on
Bloomberg, more than double the pace of the Group of 10 advanced
countries. Turkey’s almost $800 billion economy is the biggest
in eastern  Europe  and the Middle East excluding  Russia .  Demand for the government’s two-year lira sukuk was more
than twice the amount on offer at 3.28 billion liras, the
Treasury in Ankara said in a statement yesterday.  Turkish Airlines may use money from the sukuk sale to help
finance planned aircraft purchases, one of the people with
knowledge of the plans said yesterday, declining to be
identified because the details are confidential. The company is
considering buying at least six superjumbos, Chairman Hamdi Topcu said in an interview at an airshow in Istanbul Sept. 6.  Tender terms will be presented to Airbus SAS and Boeing
Co., makers of A380 and 747-8 widebody planes, he said.  Sukuk Market  Sukuk issuers will benefit from tumbling borrowing costs
for Islamic debt. The yield on global sovereign sukuk plunged
102 basis points, or 1.02 percentage points, this year to a
record low of 2.88 percent Sept. 28, according to the
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Sovereign US Dollar Sukuk Index. The yield was
2.91 percent on Oct. 1, the data show.  “We are expecting Islamic banks to assess sukuk sales and
they will be followed by companies from real estate and leasing
industries,” Basak Selcuk, deputy director for corporate
finance at Is Investment, said by e-mail yesterday. The
Istanbul-based brokerage was a co-manager in the state’s sale.  Turkish units of Shariah-compliant banks have already
tapped the sukuk market. Kuveyt Turk Katilim Bankasi AS, an
Istanbul-based Islamic Bank owned by  Kuwait Finance House KSC (KFIN) ,
sold $350 million of five-year sukuk yielding 5.875 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Is Investment expects
as much as 200 million liras of further sukuk sales by Islamic
banks in Turkey this year, and total sukuk sales in the country
in 2013 “at least to double from this year,” Selcuk said.  Debt Ratings  Albaraka Turk Katilim Bankasi AS (ALBRK) , a unit of Bahrain’s
 AlBaraka Banking Group (BARKA) , canceled a debut sale 10 months ago as
yields were too high. The bank still plans to raise as much as
$250 million of seven-year dollar-denominated sukuk this year,
Adnan Yousif, the group’s chief executive officer, said by phone
Aug. 27.  The boards of Turk Telekom and  Turkish Airlines (THYAO)  have yet to
approve the possible sukuk sales and the size of the issues
hasn’t been determined, the people said. Ali Genc, a Turkish
Airlines spokesman, didn’t answer calls seeking comment. A Turk
Telekom official, who asked not to be identified, declined to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg yesterday.  “We would assess the corporate risk and we would make a
judgment whether we’re getting compensated for it compared with
where the sovereign is trading,” said Hussain, whose Mashreq
Capital DIFC had $265 million in assets under management as of
June, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Extra Yield  Turkey is rated BB at Standard & Poor’s, the second-highest
non-investment grade rating, and one level higher at both
Moody’s and Fitch Ratings. The cost of insuring the country’s
debt against default for five years plunged 139 basis points
this year to 148 today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The decline compares with a 20 basis point drop to 107 for
Qatar, the Persian Gulf emirate rated nine levels higher at AA
by S&P. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash, and falling prices signal
improving investor perceptions of a borrower’s creditworthiness.  As a regular issuer in global  emerging markets , Turkey
“cannot be viewed with the same standard of judgment as other
sukuk issuers in this region,” Hussain said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar-
denominated debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped 8 basis points to
216 as of 1:29 p.m. in Istanbul today, according to JPMorgan’s
EMBI Global Index. The emerging-market average was 301.  Mideast Appetite  The lira climbed less than 0.1 percent to 1.7918 per
dollar, while the yield on benchmark two-year bonds increased 3
basis points 7.57 percent. The extra yield investors demand to
own Turkish notes rather than equivalent ruble debt was 83 basis
points.  Turkish companies may benefit from a growing appetite among
Middle East investors for Turkish assets and a drive by the
government of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to strengthen
trade with the Arab world as the country’s aspirations of
joining the European Union fade.  Lebanon’s  Bank Audi (BQAD)  Sal-Audi Saradar Group obtained
permission from Turkey’s banking regulator to operate in the
country, according to a decree published in the Official Gazette
yesterday. Bank Audi was also among a group of international
banks that provided Dogus Holding AS of Turkey with a three-year
$255 million loan last month.  “Middle Eastern investors have become more familiar with
Turkish corporates in recent years,” Nick Stadtmiller, Dubai-
based head of fixed-income research at Dubai-based  Emirates NBD
PJSC (EMIRATES) , said by e-mail on Oct. 1. That “would help sell a Turkish
corporate sukuk into the region,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  