-- Swap Regulators Face Push for Delays as Oct. 12 Deadline Looms
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-10-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/swap-regulators-face-push-for-delays-as-oct-12-deadline-looms.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, facing an Oct. 12 start date for a slate of
derivatives rules, is being bombarded with requests from
lobbying groups to ease or delay the Dodd-Frank Act measures.  Trade associations representing agribusiness firms  Bunge
Ltd. (BG)  and  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM)  want to delay swap-dealer
rules for non-banks. Banks and asset managers want regulators to
finally say whether foreign exchange derivatives will be subject
to the rules. And representatives of Ford Motor Credit Co. and
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  have  met  with CFTC staff to clarify that financial
entities used for asset-backed securities are exempt.  “We urgently request that the commission delay the
effectiveness of all rules until clarifying guidance, which in
many cases has been promised by the commission, can be issued,”
the Financial Services Roundtable, a Washington-based group
representing 100 of the largest financial companies, said in an
Oct. 2 letter. “Without resolution on these points, our members
cannot understand how to comply with the new rules, and
accordingly cannot comply. This is in no one’s interest.”  Starting Oct. 12, companies must begin tallying their
derivatives trades to determine whether they will be deemed swap
dealers and face Dodd-Frank’s highest capital, collateral and
trading standards, which could erode their profits. The
designation will capture  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and the other financial firms dominating a business
that generates more than $30 billion in annual profit for the
world’s largest banks, according to an estimate from financial
consultant  Oliver Wyman , a unit of Marsh & McLennan Cos.  Higher Prices  Lobbyists for energy firms that are swap buyers say their
clients may face higher costs stemming from the designation if
banks and other dealers raise prices in response to new rules.  The lobbying effort comes as the CFTC and Securities and
Exchange Commission prepare to finally put rulemakings into
effect more than two years after the passage of Dodd-Frank, the
financial-regulation overhaul designed to reduce risk and
increase transparency in the $648 trillion swaps market.  The CFTC has completed 39 rules and “substantive swaps
market reform is now in sight,” Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in
an Oct. 1 speech in  London . The agency has yet to complete rules
governing capital, margin, new swap-trading venues and the
international scope of its measures.  Swaps and other derivatives are financial instruments based
on stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities that can be
used to hedge risks or for speculation. Largely unregulated
trading of derivatives tied to mortgage bonds helped spark a
credit crisis in 2008 after the housing market collapsed.  Risk Management  Regulations that were set to take effect Oct. 1 about risk-
management standards between brokers and their clients have
already been delayed after a request from the Futures Industry
Association. A separate rule governing how quickly trades must
be accepted or rejected for clearing prompted requests for
relief from companies including LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., the
world’s largest interest rate swap clearinghouse.  The lack of clarity around the rule requiring banks and
clearinghouses to accept trades within minutes came to a head
less than two weeks before the rule’s Oct. 1 effective date, as
market users and regulators wrangled in a Sept. 19 meeting at
the CFTC, according to seven people who participated.  Ananda Radhakrishnan, the CFTC’s director of the division
of clearing and risk, organized and led the meeting, where banks
argued the time limit compromised their risk standards and money
managers said it was an attempt by the dealers to stymie
electronic trading, said the people who asked not to be named
because the discussion was private.  Arcane Rulemaking  While improving price transparency is a goal of regulators
including Gensler, it would cut the amount of money banks earn
from buying and selling swaps. Though it may seem an arcane bit
of rulemaking, it’s vital to digital trading, said Craig Pirrong, a finance professor at the  University of Houston .  “It’s an illustration that the small things are big and
the big things are bigger,” Pirrong said. “It’s going to be a
torturous process to get all this Dodd-Frank stuff in place.”  Under one rule scheduled to take effect Oct. 12, a company
that crosses the $8 billion swap-dealer designation threshold
this month would have until the end of the year before it must
register with regulators. Companies with at least $25 million of
business with a so-called special entity  would also  require
registration.  The $25 million threshold has led the Electric Power Supply
Association to file a petition seeking an exemption for swaps
tied to utility operations.  ‘One Contract’  “Under the current rules, just one contract could exceed
the de minimis threshold for special entities and cause the
counterparty to become a ‘swap dealer,’” the association wrote
in  an Aug. 14 letter . That designation will discourage trades
with utilities for companies that do not want to become dealers,
the group said in its letter.  The  American Bankers Association  has urged the CFTC to
publish guidance about the types of clients that are still
permitted to trade over-the-counter swaps. Dodd-Frank restricted
the private swaps market to so-called eligible contract
participants. The CFTC has yet to provide clarity about how
banks are supposed to verify that clients meet the requirements,
according to the ABA.  Separately, under the CFTC’s determination of which
contracts are swaps, companies would need to start tallying
foreign-exchange swaps and forwards toward the threshold for
becoming swap dealers, commodity pools and so-called major swaps
participants. Dodd-Frank gave the Treasury Department power to
exempt foreign-exchange derivatives from most rules.  Foreign Exchange  In April 2011, Treasury proposed an exemption for the
trades and said the foreign-exchange market already had adequate
levels of price transparency, risk management and electronic
trading. A coalition of 20 firms, including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
 Bank of New York Mellon  Corp. and  UBS AG (UBSN) , asked  Treasury
Secretary   Timothy F. Geithner  for the exemption.  Treasury will probably reach a final decision by the end of
the year, according to a senior Obama administration official
who spoke on condition of anonymity because work on the
determination is ongoing.  The  Investment Company Institute  and Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association are among groups that have
asked regulators to grant an exemption before Oct. 12.  ‘Unintended Consequence’  “Failure to do so will have substantial and unintended
consequence,” the groups said in a Sept. 28 letter. “If the
Treasury Secretary will be unable to do so, we request that he
issue an interim determination that FX products should be exempt
from the swap definition.”  Treasury and the CFTC have faced pressure from lawmakers to
complete the determination and improve coordination.  “If Treasury ultimately plans to provide an exemption, it
would be a complete waste of time, effort and resources to force
companies which will ultimately be exempt to go through the
registration process, restructure their activities or even
withdraw from the FX market solely because of inconsistencies
between your two agencies’ timetables,” Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat, said in a Sept. 21 letter to
Geithner and Gensler.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  