-- Turkey Assembly to Vote on Military Action Against Syria
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-10-04T14:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/syrian-shelling-kills-as-many-as-five-in-turkish-border-town.html
Turkey’s parliament approved a motion
allowing the government to order military action against Syria,
after a shell fired across the border killed five Turks.  The parliament voted by 320 to 129 after a 3 1/2-hour
debate in favor of a one-year mandate for the government to
order military operations outside Turkey, according to the
assembly’s press office. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s
motion was backed by a nationalist opposition party, while the
main opposition group opposed it.  Deputy premier Besir Atalay said after the vote that Syria
had conveyed regrets, and assurances that the incident won’t be
repeated, to United Nations officials. “Turkey’s message has
been received,” Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said.  The killings yesterday in the Turkish town of Akcakale
highlight the risk that neighboring countries could be drawn
into Syria’s civil war. Turkey, which retaliated with artillery
attacks on Syrian military targets, has backed the rebels
fighting to oust President Bashar al-Assad and allowed them to
use bases inside Turkey. It has deployed extra troops near the
border since June, when Syrian forces downed a Turkish plane.  “Turkey has no intention to spark war, but the government
felt the pressure to respond in the face of killings of its
citizens, to avoid public reaction,” said Atilla Sandikli, a
former army officer and chairman of the Istanbul-based think-
tank Bilgesam.  ‘Serious Threat’  The motion approved by parliament cites the artillery fire
from  Syria  as a “serious threat to our national security.” It
says that to prevent further threats Turkish troops can be
“deployed and given missions in foreign countries,” without
specifying Syria.  Turkish artillery units fired yesterday and today at Syrian
military targets in response to the shelling. Fourteen Syrian
soldiers were killed, Al Arabiya television said.  Atalay said the vote doesn’t give the government a mandate
for war, and is intended as a deterrent. He said Turkey’s
priority is to move in unison with the international community.  Concern that Turkey is being drawn into the Syrian conflict
caused a slide in Turkish bonds and the lira. Both pared losses
today as the government stressed that it’s not planning to
attack. Yields on  two-year bonds  rose 4 basis points to 7.61
percent at 5:10 p.m. local time, and the currency gained 0.2
percent after a 0.7 percent drop yesterday.  Syrian Probe  Syrian Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi said authorities
have begun an investigation into the source of the firing into
Turkey, and offered condolences to the Turkish people, the
state-run Syrian Arab News Agency reported.  Funerals were held today for the two women and three
children who were killed. Authorities cordoned off the debris of
the house where they died, and there were signs of shrapnel
dotting neighboring buildings, television footage showed.  Turkey called an emergency meeting of its North Atlantic
Treaty Organization allies yesterday and wrote to the UN
Security Council demanding action, as it sought to drum up
international condemnation. The UN body has been unable to take
steps against Assad because of vetoes by  Russia  and  China .  Russia is “extremely concerned” by the military
escalation, and wants Assad to declare publicly his commitment
to preventing clashes on the Turkish border, Alexander Lukashevich, a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry, told
reporters in Moscow.  ‘Very Dangerous’  NATO called the Syrian action “a flagrant breach of
international law and a clear and present danger to the
security” of an alliance member. U.S. Secretary of Hillary Clinton described the situation as “very, very dangerous” and
pledged “strong support” for Turkey.  Article 5 of the NATO treaty, drafted at the start of the
Cold War, considers an attack on one member as an attack on all,
enabling a possible military response. It was invoked only once,
in solidarity with the U.S. after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks.
 Turkey  has invoked Article 4, allowing a country to convene a
NATO meeting when its security is threatened.  The U.S. and most of its NATO allies have signaled they are
reluctant to intervene militarily in the conflict in Syria,
which began in March last year and has left about 30,000 dead
according to opposition-supporting rights groups.  Turkey’s readiness to retaliate could benefit the Syrian
rebels, said Nihat Ali Ozcan, a security analyst at the Economic
Policy Research Foundation in Ankara.  It may create a “de facto safe haven for rebels in the
north of Syria, if Syria gets the message from Turkey and orders
its forces to withdraw, or avoid firing toward areas close to
the Turkish border,” he said. “The rebels have long been
hoping for support from Turkey and now they have a psychological
boost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 