-- U.K. Urges EU Parliament Rethink on Derivatives Benchmark Plan
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-10-03T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/u-k-urges-eu-parliament-rethink-on-derivatives-benchmark-plan.html
U.K. Treasury Minister Greg Clark
urged European lawmakers to rethink a decision to vote down
proposals to compile reference-point interest rates for
derivatives.  European Parliament legislators voted last week to oppose
so-called interoperability arrangements between clearing firms
and vetoed plans from Michel Barnier, the European Union’s
financial services chief, to boost access to information used to
compile market benchmark rates.  “This was both a pro-stability move and would have
strengthened their transparency and governance for the future,”
Clark said in a speech in Brussels today, according to remarks
released by his office. “I would urge the European Parliament
to reflect again whether it is sensible to delete these
provisions. They are important to the single market and all the
economic benefits this represents.”  The European Parliament gave only limited support last week
to an attempt by Barnier to boost competition in clearing of
derivatives. While exchanges should, as a rule, be required to
supply their trade data to rival clearinghouses, lawmakers voted
that these requests would have to be assessed for any risk they
may pose to financial stability.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne won assurances
from Barnier last year that the draft Markets in Financial
Instruments Directive rules would contain strong competition-
boosting provisions.  Clark said that he welcomed proposed bank-structure rules
published yesterday by an EU working group. The measures, which
include forcing banks to push risky trading activities into
separately capitalized units, echo U.K. plans, he said.  The so-called Liikanen report “has opened the door to
similar far-reaching reforms across  Europe ,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at +44-20-7222-1092 or
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at +33-1-5365-5075 or
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  