-- U.S., Europe Nowhere Close to Ending Crisis, Krugman Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-10-03T14:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/u-s-europe-nowhere-close-to-ending-crisis-krugman-says.html
The U.S. and the European Union are
“nowhere close to ending” the financial crisis and German-led
austerity efforts may lead to a 1930s-style economic depression,
Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman  said.  Five years into the crisis, the U.S. needs “another round
of stimulus” and Federal Reserve officials “should be doing
whatever they can” to aid the recovery, while Europe needs a
fiscal union to save its single currency, Krugman said in a
speech in Belgrade today.  “Europe must accept there are limits to austerity and that
additional austerity won’t do anything but bring societies on
the verge of collapse,” said Krugman, an economics professor at
 Princeton University . “No country will have prosperity until
Germany and the ECB have decided that too much pain has been
inflicted.”  The  European Central Bank  and the Fed have unveiled plans
to fight the crisis and reduce borrowing costs. ECB President
 Mario Draghi  last month announced an unlimited bond-buying
program for distressed euro-area nations, while Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has committed to another round of so-called
quantitative easing.  Stabilizing Yields  Europe needs to “contain immediately the financial threat
to troubled countries and stabilize yields on their borrowing,
which in the end requires the ECB to be ready to be the lender
of last resort and buy sovereign bonds,” Krugman said. “And
that is now sort of happening,” he said, adding “there are 60
percent odds that they’ll save the euro.”  In the U.S., where the recovery is struggling to gain
traction, new fiscal stimulus should be “directed to distressed
individuals” rather than companies, Krugman said.  In  Europe , the risk of protracted and extreme austerity
measures may lead to “political upheavals, radicalization” and
“terrible things happening,” he said. “It’s not difficult to
see the decades ahead looking like the 1930s.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  