-- Eleven Charged With Illegal Military Exports to Russia
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-10-03T19:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/u-s-charges-11-in-alleged-russian-military-procurement-scheme.html
The U.S. charged 11 people with
involvement in an illegal scheme to export high-tech
microelectronics to Russian military and intelligence agencies.  The case is “the first-ever criminal prosecution of a
large-scale Russian military procurement network operating
within the United States,” said  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for
Loretta Lynch, U.S. attorney in Brooklyn, New York. A federal
indictment dated Sept. 28 was unsealed today.  One of the accused is Alexander Fishenko, 46, an owner and
executive of both the Houston-based export firm  Arc Electronics
Inc.  and a Russia-based procurement firm, Apex System LLC. He is
also charged with operating as an unregistered agent of the
Russian government, the Justice Department said. Most of the
other defendants were employees of Arc or Apex, the government
said.  The microelectronics involved are subject to strict
government controls, the Justice Department said. They can be
used in radar and surveillance systems, weapons guidance systems
and detonation triggers, according to the government. Arc
shipped at least $50 million worth of microelectronics and other
technology to  Russia  without an export license, the government
said in a memorandum today to U.S. Magistrate Judge George C.
Hanks Jr. in Houston.  Eight Arrested  Eight of the individuals have been arrested and are
expected to appear in federal court in Houston today, Nardoza
said. Three are at large, he said.  The defendants if convicted face as long as 20 years in
prison on the most serious charges, violating the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act and the Arms Export Control Act.  Fishenko, who was born in the then-Soviet Republic of
Kazakhstan and graduated from Leningrad Electro-Technical
Institute in St. Petersburg, Russia, immigrated to the U.S. in
1994 and initially worked in a Houston-area Circuit City store,
prosecutors said in their memo to Hanks.  He secured U.S. citizenship in 2003, and told the
government that he had no prior military experience, prosecutors
said. Elsewhere, he claimed to have served in a Soviet military
intelligence unit in the 1980s, they said in the memo. Fishenko
founded Arc in 1998 and maintains significant contact with
Russia, according to the government.  ‘Overwhelming’ Evidence  Prosecutors said in the memo that they have
“overwhelming” evidence against Fishenko, including hundreds
of e-mail and telephone communications. The government claimed
he made many statements indicating his attempt to evade U.S.
export controls and conceal his procurement functions.  On March 23, Fishenko directed an employee of a Russian
firm to “make sure that our guys don’t discuss extra
information, such as this is for our military client,”
according to the memo. Prosecutors said Fishenko discussed
falsifying end-user information in a Jan. 27 phone conversation
with an employee at another Russian company, stating: “If you
are making it up, make it up pretty, correctly, and make sure it
looks good.”  A letter recovered during the investigation revealed that
one of the end users of Arc’s exported electronics was the
Federal Security Service, successor to the KGB spy agency,
according to the memo. The U.S.-made memory chips and
microprocessors supplied by Arc also appeared to be similar to
those used in Russian anti-ship missiles and for the development
of the MiG-35 fighter jet, according to the memo.  Many sophisticated components for electronic weapons, which
include the technology exported by Arc, can’t be sourced in
Russia, prosecutors said.  Arc conducted much of its business using shell companies
located in countries including the British Virgin Islands,
Panama and Belize, and exported goods primarily from New York’s
John F. Kennedy International Airport, prosecutors said.  ‘Free Market’  “The defendants tried to take advantage of America’s free
markets to steal American technologies for the Russian
government,” Lynch said in a statement. “But U.S. law
enforcement detected, disrupted and dismantled the defendants’
network.”  Representatives for the Federal Security Service in Moscow
had no immediate comment on the arrests. A lawyer for Fishenko,
Jamie Joiner, didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  The case is U.S. v. Fishenko, 1:12-cr-626, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 