-- U.S. Casinos Won’t Get Macau Licenses, Caesars CEO Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-10-03T20:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/u-s-casinos-won-t-get-macau-licenses-caesars-ceo-says.html
The government of Macau won’t issue
any licenses for new U.S. companies to operate casinos in the
world’s largest gambling market, Gary Loveman, chief executive
officer of  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , predicted.  Loveman, in a presentation yesterday to analysts and
investors in Las Vegas, said he has spoken at length with
Chinese officials and that his company was unlikely to obtain a
concession to operate a casino in Macau, the only part of China
where casino gambling is legal.  “This is a country that doesn’t really need the money and
they have slowed everything in Macau very substantially,”
Loveman, 52, said. “There will not be another license issued to
an American casino operator.”  Caesars, the largest owner of U.S. casinos, was shut out a
decade ago when the Chinese government opened the Macau market
to foreign companies. Six operators, including U.S.-based  Las
Vegas  Sands Corp.,  MGM Resorts International (MGM)  and  Wynn Resorts (WYNN) 
now hold concessions. Caesars’ attempts to break in have failed
as the market swelled to $33 billion last year.  “I’ve talked to caddies, I’ve talked to everyone,”
Loveman said. “I don’t think you’re going to see another
American casino operator have a very bright future in Macau.”  China is trying to develop domestic businesses, Loveman
said. He sits on the board of  Fedex Corp. (FDX) , which received
authorization last month to offer its courier service in eight
Chinese cities. The company had sought 50 territories, Loveman
said.  Golf Course  Caesars acquired a golf course in Macau in 2007, prior to
the company’s 2008 $30.7 billion buyout by affiliates of  Leon Black ’s  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and  David Bonderman ’s TPG
Capital, with the intent of developing a resort on the property.
The company paid $577 million for the land, the Las Vegas Review
Journal reported.  Loveman discussed China after presenting other avenues for
the Las Vegas-based company to increase its business, including
new casinos the company has opened or hopes to open in Ohio,
Maryland and Massachusetts. Caesars on Oct. 1 unveiled new
tenants at Linq, a $550 million entertainment complex it is
building at the center of the  Las Vegas Strip .  Caesars  dropped  1.4 percent to $6.23 at the close in New
York. The shares have declined 31 percent since a February
initial public offering.  The company may take steps to reduce its $22.7 billion in
debt, including raising money from its private-equity investors
to repurchase Caesars bonds at a discount or issuing shares in
an online subsidiary that offers casino-like games on
Facebook.com and mobile devices, competing with  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)   Zynga Factor  A share sale would depend on a market rebound for Zynga,
Loveman said. The San Francisco-based social-games company has
seen its stock price fall about 70 percent this year.  Las Vegas Sands, controlled by billionaire  Sheldon Adelson ,
this year took a $100 million writeoff on two parcels it hoped
to develop in Macau. The company also hasn’t received approval
to sell condominiums there that it has already built out. MGM
and Wynn have new casinos under development in Macau.  Robert Goldstein, president of global gaming at Las Vegas
Sands, said yesterday that his company still had land to develop
and expected to get approvals to sell the condos at some point
in the future.  “It will happen on the Four Seasons condos,” Goldstein
said at the Global Gaming Expo in Las Vegas. “Although we’d
like to see them approved yesterday, we’ll wait patiently and it
will happen. What happened in Macau is beyond belief and we’re
very grafeful for what we got.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  