-- Turkish Treasury to Buy Majority Stake in Vakifbank; Shares Fall
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-10-03T15:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/turkish-treasury-to-buy-majority-stake-in-vakifbank-shares-fall.html
Turkey ’s Treasury will buy a majority
stake in  Turkiye Vakiflar Bankasi TAO (VAKBN) , in a move that the bank’s
chief executive said will remove uncertainties over ownership.  The sale of a 58.5 percent stake to the Treasury “won’t be
below market value,” chief executive Suleyman Kalkan said today
at a press conference in Istanbul. Treasury ownership “will
support our strategic growth targets,” he said, without giving
more details. The bank’s pension fund will also have the option
to sell its 16 percent stake to the Treasury, he said.  The Treasury is buying the majority stake from an
autonomous state-run body called the Directorate of Foundations,
Kalkan said. Legislation is being planned to allow the sale and
the process should be clear by year-end, he said. The purchase
is not part of a privatization process, he said.  “The possible sale of 16 percent pension-fund stake to the
Treasury may create overhang in the short run,” Cihan Saraoglu,
a banks analyst at the Ekspres Invest brokerage in Istanbul,
wrote today in e-mailed comments to clients. “If the Treasury
owns 75 percent of the bank, the chances of a rights offering
will always be there in the future.”  Vakifbank fell 4 percent to 3.80 liras at 5:34 p.m. in
Istanbul. It has gained 55 percent this year, compared with a 31
percent increase on the  Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100. (XU100) 
The shares are rated buy by six  analysts  on Bloomberg, compared
with 15 hold recommendations and 5 sell.  The sale to the Treasury may benefit Vakifbank by giving it
a “financially strong shareholder who knows the business really
well,” according to Muge Dagistan, a banks analyst at BGC
Partners in Istanbul. “The foundation did not have the means to
financially support the bank if needed.”  Vakifbank is Turkey’s sixth-largest publicly-traded bank by
market capitalization, according to Bloomberg data. The lender’s
second-quarter profit was 284.4 million liras, according to a
statement to the Istanbul Stock Exchange on Aug. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  