-- Vale Says Railway at Its Biggest Iron-Ore Mine Still Shut
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-10-03T20:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/vale-says-railway-at-its-biggest-iron-ore-mine-still-shut.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s second-largest
mining company, said the railroad that transports iron ore from
its Carajas mine in  Brazil  was shut for a second day due to a
protest by indigenous Amerindian people.  Demonstrators are blocking traffic at the Carajas railway
in the northeastern state of Maranhao, a press official at the
Rio de Janeiro-based company said today by telephone. The
protests aren’t directly related to Vale’s activities, the
company said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday. It will
take legal action against those blocking the railroad, the
company said.  The 892-kilometer (554-mile) railway  connects  Vale’s
Carajas iron-ore mine, the world’s largest, with the Ponta da
Madeira port in Maranhao. The company produced a record 109.8
million metric tons of  iron ore  in Carajas last year, or about
34 percent of its total output, Vale said Feb. 15.  The railway’s closing will have a “very limited” effect
as long as operations are restored soon, Barclays Plc analysts,
led by Leonardo Correa, said in a note to clients today.  “Vale holds inventory throughout its distribution chain,
which would help offset any momentary disruption,” the analysts
said. “We have seen this several times before.”  Vale also ships manganese, copper, and coal along the line,
which uses the world’s largest train, made up of four
locomotives and 330 cars, according to the company’s  website .
The railway transports about 350,000 metric tons of iron ore a
day, Vale’s press official said today.  The shares  dropped  1.3 percent to 34.69 reais at the close
in  Sao Paulo , their lowest since Sept. 6. The stock has  lost  8.3
percent this year.  Iron ore for  immediate delivery  was unchanged at $104.20 a
ton, according to a  price index  compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  