-- Vanguard FTSE Switch to Boost China as Korean Stocks Sold
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-10-03T19:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/vanguard-ftse-switch-to-boost-china-as-korean-stocks-sold-1-.html
Vanguard Group Inc. fund managers
investing in  emerging markets  will have to sell South Korean
stocks and step up purchases of Chinese and Brazilian shares
after the largest U.S. mutual-fund provider switched benchmarks
for its six equity funds.  FTSE Group ’s Emerging Index, which excludes South Korea as
it’s classed as a developed market, will replace  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) ’s
Emerging Markets Index as the reference gauge for the Vanguard
Emerging Markets Stock Index Fund, the  Valley Forge ,
Pennsylvania-based firm said yesterday. The $67 billion fund
will need to boost investment in equities of Brazil,  South
Africa , China, India and  Taiwan  as they are weighted higher in
FTSE’s index than in MSCI’s, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “This change will have an impact on  asset allocation  for
these fund managers,” said Nader Naeimi, the Sydney-based head
of dynamic asset allocation at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which
manages almost $100 billion. “If Korea becomes developed status
then they’re going to have to get money out.”  The Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index and its ETF
currently  invest  15.5 percent of their money, or $10 billion, in
South Korea, according to data compiled by Bloomberg on the MSCI
 Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)   Those outflows will be partly offset by new investments in
South Korean stocks from the Developed Markets Index Fund, the
Pacific Stock Index Fund and the Tax-Managed International Fund,
the data show. The Asian nation’s stocks are 2.3 percent of the
FTSE World Index of developed market shares.  Tracker Funds  Six Vanguard international index funds will transition to
benchmarks in the FTSE Global Equity Index Series as the firm
seeks lower expense ratios and better returns, Vanguard said in
yesterday’s statement.  Money managers of so-called tracker funds can’t own shares
that are listed in a country not covered under its benchmark.
Vanguard’s emerging markets fund will need to sell positions in
South Korean stocks to comply with the shift to FTSE, said  Julie
Andrews , a director in Australia for FTSE Group.  The FTSE emerging markets gauge  weights  Brazilian stocks
16.1 percent, compared with 12.6 percent on the MSCI index.
South Africa makes up 10.6 percent of FTSE’s index and 7.7
percent of the MSCI benchmark, while China is 16.7 percent of
the FTSE and 12.9 percent on the MSCI. India comprises 9.6
percent of FTSE’s emerging markets index and has a weighting of
7.1 percent on MSCI’s, while Taiwan makes up 13.2 percent of the
FTSE gauge versus 11 percent at MSCI.  Mimic Moves  The switch to FTSE gauges is the largest ever transition in
international index providers, according to the FTSE statement
released yesterday. Shares of MSCI had a record 27 percent slide
in New York yesterday.  Vanguard, known for its low-cost index tracker funds,
manages about $1.95 trillion in U.S. mutual fund assets. The
change will affect both index mutual funds and exchange-traded
funds at Vanguard, whose ETFs are structured as share classes of
its mutual funds.  The $58 billion  Vanguard MSCI Emerging Markets ETF (VWO)  had 13
percent of its allocation in South Korea shares at the end of
June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ETF trades
throughout the U.S. day and is designed to mimic moves in MSCI
benchmark indexes without trying to outperform the gauge.
Vanguard’s Developed Markets Index Fund is worth $11.3 billion,
more than 70 percent below the value of the emerging markets
ETF, according to FTSE Group.  South Korea’s  KOSPI Index (KOSPI) , which was closed for a holiday
today, has gained 9.3 percent in 2012.  U.A.E. Stocks  Equities from the United Arab Emirates, deemed a frontier
market by MSCI, may also benefit from Vanguard’s move as they
are regarded as emerging by FTSE.  Stocks from the U.A.E. make up 0.34 percent of FTSE’s
emerging markets index, while the weighting for  Egypt , the
world’s best performing market this year, is 0.51 percent,
according to FTSE’s website. Egypt makes up 0.36 percent of
MSCI’s emerging markets gauge, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Benchmark indexes in Dubai,  Abu Dhabi  and Egypt rose today,
with the  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  soaring to the highest level in five
months and Egypt’s EGX 30 Index climbing 0.8 percent, gaining
for the first time in five days. UAE companies contribute $11.5
billion to the FTSE index and account for 10 of the 793 stocks
while Egypt, which contributes 13 stocks, is valued at $17.3
billion.  ‘Positive Factor’  “The news that one of the largest emerging-market
exchange-traded funds is switching to the FTSE index series is a
positive factor for both the U.A.E. and Egypt,”  Julian Bruce ,
the Dubai-based director of institutional sales trading at EFG-
Hermes Holding SAE, said by e-mail today. “Timing remains
uncertain but this type of event is always a catalyst for
increased speculative activity.”  Vanguard’s switch comes as trading volumes in Dubai drop
amid the  European debt crisis  and threat of a global slowdown.  About  228 million shares  traded in Dubai today, down from a
March peak of 835 million. U.A.E. equities are valued at $108
billion and those in Egypt at $69 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The U.A.E. failed for a fourth year in
June to secure an upgrade from MSCI to emerging-market status,
after the New York-based index provider cited issues with market
accessibility.  The Vanguard Total Stock Market Index fund, the firm’s
largest index fund at $197 billion, will track the CRSP U.S.
Total Market Index instead of the MSCI U.S. Broad Market Index,
Vanguard said yesterday. There is no difference in what MSCI and
FTSE consider developed markets in western Europe.  Nestle Weighting  Individual stocks may see changes in investment flows as a
result of their different weightings in the benchmarks.  Nestle
SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food company, makes up 0.77 percent of
the 2,463-member  FTSE World Index (FTWI01) , less than its 0.83 percent
weighting in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) , which has 1,626 members, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. U.K. bank  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  makes up
0.68 percent of the MSCI benchmark to 0.6 percent of the FTSE
gauge.  “Free-float factors are not the same for both indices,
this might create some differences for a few stocks,”
Christophe Wakim, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in Paris, said
in a phone interview. “The only thing we don’t know is how they
want to do the migration. If they do it in a clever way, they
should be able to have a smooth and progressive transition that
will have very limited impact.”  Vanguard will migrate 16 U.S. stock and balanced-index
funds to new benchmarks developed by the University of Chicago’s
Center for Research in Security Prices, according to yesterday’s
statement.  MSCI gained today, after yesterday’s 27 percent slump. The
shares added 7.1 percent to $28.08 by 3:08 p.m. in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  