-- Vestas Says Emerging Wind Markets Can’t Offset EU, U.S. Decline
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2012-10-03T15:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/vestas-says-emerging-wind-markets-can-t-offset-eu-u-s-decline.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s
biggest wind-turbine maker, said higher sales in  emerging
markets  won’t make up for a decline in demand in the U.S. and
European Union next year.  “Wind markets in Spain,  Portugal ,  Greece ,  Italy  are
slowing down,” Chief Sales Officer Juan Araluce said today in
Aarhus,  Denmark . New turbine installations in the U.S. may drop
to 2 gigawatts next year if the government doesn’t renew a tax
credit, he said. That compares with forecast installations of
10.8 gigawatts in 2012, Bloomberg New Energy Finance data show.  Vestas, along with General Electric Co. and  Siemens AG (SIE) , has
faced increased competition from Chinese rivals just as European
and U.S. governments rein in support for renewable energy. The
Danish company, also hurt by higher-than-expected costs to
develop its V112 turbine, announced two rounds of job cuts this
year totaling a sixth of its workforce.  The manufacturer is reviewing its capital structure and
options for refinancing, Chief Financial Officer Dag Andresen
said today in an interview in Aarhus, where the company held a
capital markets day. Vestas, which had to reach an agreement
with lenders in July to defer a test of financial covenants, has
outstanding loans and bonds totaling 2.2 billion euros ($2.8
billion), according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The company is studying selling shares to current
investors, two people with knowledge of the plan said last
month. Andresen declined to comment on a possible rights issue
today.  No Upgrades  Today’s investor presentations shed only “limited” light
on the company’s problems, said Rupesh Madlani, an analyst at
Barclays Plc’s investment-banking unit. “We do not expect to
see consensus upgrades for 2013 until management provides more
specifics around their business model and cost reduction.”  Vestas  reported a loss  last year for the first time since
2005 and continued to lose money in the first two quarters of
2012 as turbine prices were squeezed by a supply glut and a new
factory suffered production delays.  The company retains guidance for positive free cash flow
this year, according to Andresen, who said Vestas has always had
“volatility” in cash flow. “We have a lot of cash tied up in
inventories. All of these turbines are on their way out as we
speak.”  Vestas slumped 5.2 percent in Copenhagen trading, the most
in almost three weeks, to close at 37.90 kroner.  Job Cuts  The company may cut more jobs and partially idle some U.S.
plants, Chief Operating Officer Jean-Marc Lechene said today.
Its strategy in the U.S. depends on an extension of the so-
called Production Tax Credit, which gives an incentive of 2.2
cents a kilowatt-hour of wind power.  Bloomberg New Energy Finance forecasts 4.8 gigawatts of new
U.S. turbine installations next year. It sees 6.8 gigawatts of
onshore turbines in the 27-nation EU, down from from 9.3
gigawatts this year.  The capital markets day comes a day after Vestas said
former CFO Henrik Norremark was involved in two unauthorized
deals in  India  that may cost the company 18 million euros. The
shares have dropped 16 percent in the past week.  The stock may also be weighed down by Vestas’s failure to
conclude talks on what it describes as a possible “strategic
cooperation” with  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) , according
to Barclays’s Madlani. Analysts at Nordea Bank AB and  Sydbank
A/S (SYDB)  said in August the talks probably extend to offshore wind
turbines.  Vestas said late yesterday it’s increasing the capacity of
its planned V164 offshore turbine to 8 megawatts from 7
megawatts, making it the company’s biggest model. Vestas has
repeatedly said it’s seeking a partner to develop the machine,
with a prototype due for installation in 2014.  “There is some disappointment that the company continues
to progress its V164 turbine without concluding any of the
strategic discussions it announced,” Madlani said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 