-- Vestas Falls as Markets Day Fails to Deliver: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-10-03T10:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/vestas-falls-as-markets-day-fails-to-deliver-copenhagen-mover.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s
biggest wind-turbine maker, fell the most in three weeks in
Copenhagen trading after failing to convince investors at a
capital markets day of its plans to resurrect the company.  Vestas shares fell as much as 6.7 percent, the most since
Sept. 13. The stock declined 4.9 percent to 38.01 kroner at
11:29 a.m. in the Danish capital, making it today’s biggest
loser in the OMX Copenhagen 20 Index.  Some analysts tracking Vestas had expected the company to
use today’s capital markets day to deliver a clear message on
how it will face increased competition from Chinese rivals just
as European and U.S. governments plan to cut green energy
subsidies. Haakon Levy, an analyst with DNB Markets, advised
investors on Sept. 24 to hold onto the stock because it might
rise on the capital market’s presentation.  “Margins and pricing continue to remain pressured across
the sector which, along with policy uncertainty such as the
renewal of the U.S.’s production tax credit, have weighed on the
wind industry,”  James Evans , solar and wind analyst at
Bloomberg Industries, said in an interview.  Order intake is slowing, Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  said today in his presentation.  Vestas reported yesterday that two unauthorized deals in
 India  by a former chief financial officer may cost the Aarhus,
Denmark-based company as much as 18 million euros ($23 million).
Vestas canceled its severance agreement with Henrik Noerremark
and said it may pursue legal action against the former
executive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  