-- Vitro Asks Court to Compel Barred Mexican Bankruptcy Plan
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n ,   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-10-03T21:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/vitro-to-ask-u-s-court-to-enforce-mexican-reorganization.html
Vitro SAB, the Mexican glassmaker
seeking to salvage its restructuring, urged an appeals court to
enforce its bankruptcy plan in the U.S. over opposition from
hedge fund Elliott Management Corp. and other creditors.  Vitro is facing “legal chaos” with a bankruptcy plan
that’s valid in Mexico and unenforceable in the U.S., Vitro
attorney Andrew Leblanc told the U.S. Court of Appeals in New
Orleans today.  “Vitro would be crippled in the United States” if a
bankruptcy judge’s decision that denied enforcement of the plan
in the U.S. is upheld, Leblanc said.  The case came directly to the appeals court following a
victory in bankruptcy court by Elliott and other holders of some
of Vitro’s $1.2 billion in defaulted bonds. U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Harlin Hale in  Dallas  ruled in June that the Mexican plan
was “manifestly contrary” to U.S. policy because it reduced
the liability of non-bankrupt Vitro units on the bonds.  A panel of three appeals court judges heard the case. The
outcome will help determine the boundaries on what is
permissible in a foreign reorganization that seeks recognition
in the U.S., said Madlyn Gleich Primoff, a bankruptcy attorney
at Kaye Scholer LLP in New York.  ‘Public Policy’  “This goes much further than U.S. law,” Primoff, who
isn’t involved in the case, said about Vitro’s plan. “The
question is whether it goes so far that it’s manifestly contrary
to U.S. public policy.”  In a U.S. bankruptcy, so-called third-party releases are
permissible only under “very narrow circumstances,” Circuit
Judge Carolyn King said during today’s hearing. We “don’t have
that here,” she said. She also said that the U.S. bondholders
understood the risk when they bought bonds in a company that
could go bankrupt in  Mexico .  Vitro, which makes glass containers and car windshields,
defaulted on $1.5 billion of debt in 2009, including $1.2
billion of bonds, after construction and auto-glass sales
plunged during the U.S.’s worst recession since the 1930s. The
company also incurred $340 million of derivative losses from bad
bets on natural gas prices and currencies.  After winning approval for its reorganization plan in
Mexico, Vitro asked Hale to enforce the plan in the U.S. under
Chapter 15 of U.S. bankruptcy law and block litigation by
bondholders, including Aurelius Capital Management, that have
fought to collect on the defaulted debt.  ‘Create Precedent’  Hale faulted the plan for extinguishing the claims of
bondholders against Vitro units that guaranteed the debt, even
though the units aren’t in bankruptcy. Enforcing the plan in the
U.S. “would create precedent without any seeming bounds,” Hale
said in his ruling.  G. Eric Brunstad Jr., a lawyer for the bondholders, said
the Vitro units need only file for bankruptcy to halt collection
efforts on the bonds.  “There would be chaos, but the subsidiaries would do what
they should have done - file for bankruptcy,” Brunstad said.  Leblanc, of law firm Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP,
said there was no violation of U.S. policy because a majority of
unsecured creditors voted for the plan reducing the units’ debt.
The bankruptcy judge determined that the procedure in Mexico was
fair and without corruption, he added.  Even if Vitro wins the appeal being argued today, the
company still must deal with a separate defeat in August when a
U.S. district judge in Dallas ruled that 10 Vitro units should
have been thrown into bankruptcy involuntarily.  The appeal is Vitro SAB v. Ad Hoc Group of Vitro
Noteholders (In re Vitro SAB), 12-10689, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans). The suit in bankruptcy
court where the judge decided not to enforce the Mexican
reorganization in the U.S. is Vitro SAB v. ACP Master Ltd. (In
re Vitro SAB), 12-03027, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern
District of  Texas  (Dallas). The Chapter 15 case for the parent
is Vitro SAB, 11-33335, in the same court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com ; 
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  