-- Washington’s Annoying Consensus on the Nationals
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2012-10-03T21:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/washington-s-annoying-consensus-on-the-nationals.html
If Paul Krugman is right -- and he
has a Nobel Prize that says he is -- then we should all be
suspicious of the so-called  Washington consensus . Which may tell
you all you need to know about the Beltway’s  bipartisan
obsession  with the Washington Nationals.  Fans of a winning team are almost always annoying. But when
they are also policy makers and newscasters, it’s somehow
especially nauseating.  Every major television network boasts at least one deeply
devoted Nats fan.  CNN ’s Wolf Blitzer  tweeted  a photograph from
the champagne-soaked clubhouse after the team clinched Monday
night. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Senate Minority
Leader Mitch McConnell are both fans, which might help explain
why the 112th Congress was the  least productive  since World War
II. (Too much hardball, as it were.) This being Washington, the
team’s supporters go to great pains to point out that they are
not flip-floppers -- that they’ve always been for the Nationals.  Cities love nothing more than to see their sports teams as
reflections of themselves. (Countercultural San Francisco’s
embrace of the 2010 Giants, led by the pot-smoking Tim Lincecum
and the tattooed Brian Wilson, leaps immediately to mind.) So
what does that make the Nationals? A team of wonks?  As it happens, pitcher  Stephen Strasburg  has been  studying 
U.S. history flash cards prepared for the team by columnist
George Will. Outfielder Jayson Werth has  grilled  Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke (yes, he’s got “Natitude” too, as does
Alan Greenspan) about quantitative easing.  National Model  Washington has apparently learned a thing or two from the
Nats as well. Who could forget Reid repurposing rookie-of-the-
year candidate Bryce Harper’s eloquent postgame  quote  -- “That’s
a clown question, bro” -- in one of his news conferences? Just
the other day, Bernanke  cited  the Nationals as a model for U.S.
economic policy makers. They are successful now, he said,
because they planned ahead and invested in their future during
the team’s lean years.  That’s one theory. A more plausible reason for the
Nationals’ success is that they were really bad for a few years,
which put them in a position to draft Ryan Zimmerman, who hit
.393 and slugged .581 at the University of  Virginia , and a pair
of no-brainers in Harper and Strasburg. Also, they traded for
Gio Gonzalez, who has been great -- a little bit better, it’s
fair to say, than Tommy Milone, the least valuable of the four
highly rated prospects the Nats had to give up for him.  The team  wasn’t exactly  planning ahead when it let
Strasburg start his innings-meter on opening day and allowed it
to expire in mid-September, when they could easily have had him
available for the postseason. Nor was it looking forward in 2010
when it signed Werth, then 31, to a seven-year, $126 million
deal. He was absurdly overvalued even then, and the Nats will be
paying him $21.57 million in 2017. When he is 38.  That’s all right: The owner of the Nationals, the real
estate developer Ted Lerner, can afford it. He’s worth $4
billion. But wait. Why, then, did he balk when asked for a
$29,500 deposit -- a deposit! -- to keep the Metro running when
the team’s games run late? (A Washington-based company called
LivingSocial Inc.  eventually agreed  to “sponsor” the added
service.) For that matter, why did he leave it to the city’s
taxpayers to foot the vast majority of the bill for the team’s
$600 million stadium?  In a sense, you can’t blame Lerner for his unwillingness to
assume the risk. After all, Washington lost its original
baseball team, the Senators, in 1960 because of lack of fan
support. ( Also because  the team’s charming owner, Calvin Griffith, wanted to be in a city --  Minneapolis , it turned out -
- with fewer black people.)  Nationals’ Embarrassment  Not all that much has changed since then. In their historic
season, the Nationals rank 14th in attendance in the major
leagues, an improvement over 2011, when they were 20th, but
pretty pathetic for a team with a new ballpark, two of the
game’s most hyped young stars and a wealthy would-be fan base in
 Maryland  and northern Virginia. The Nats weren’t even close to
selling out for the big clincher on Monday night. This does not
bode well for future years when the team might not be as
successful on the field.  Or maybe I’m missing the point. In Washington, it’s not the
size of the crowd that matters so much as whether the right
people are in it.  Either way, here they are, baseball’s feel-good team --
even Washington transplants in long-term baseball relationships
are  confessing to  secret crushes -- and, evidently, a model of
smart, virtuous management. At this rate, Nationals manager
Davey Johnson will soon be cast in bronze on the Mall. It will
not be a particularly popular attraction to  New York  Mets fans,
who had the misfortune of watching Johnson preside over their
enormously talented teams of the late 1980s and produce just one
championship.  For all of the Beltway spin, this season’s real baseball
miracle is just up the Baltimore-Washington Parkway, at Camden
Yards, where the Baltimore Orioles have built a playoff team out
of a collection of has-beens and never-weres, including Miguel Gonzalez (who was pitching in  Mexico  last year), Chris Davis
(who consistently failed to prove himself in  Texas ) and Nate McLouth (released by the Pirates in late May).  I don’t mean to begrudge the Nationals their success,
bringing postseason baseball back to Washington for the first
time since 1933. Just keep in mind that if you root for the
Nats, you’ll be siding with  Washington ’s political and media
elite.  So bring on the extended postseason. And somebody, anybody,
please beat the Nationals.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
A long-time contributor to the New York Times Magazine, he is
the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx
Is Burning,” “The Challenge,” and “Death Comes to Happy Valley.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  pastors who cross the
political line ; Susan Antilla on  educating individual investors ;
Caroline Baum on Ben Bernanke  forgetting Milton Friedman’s
lessons;  Ezra Klein on the broad consensus behind  narrow
partisan fronts ; Cass R. Sunstein on  why regulators are
listening to you ; Enrique Krauze on hopes for a  miracle in
Venezuela .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or @jonathanmahler on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 