-- Wet Seal Offers Board Resignations Then Retracts Same Day
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-10-03T20:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/wet-seal-offers-board-resignations-then-retracts-same-day.html
Clinton Group Inc. received the news
it had been waiting for yesterday afternoon when teen apparel
retailer  Wet Seal Inc. (WTSLA)  called to concede a proxy contest for
board seats. The victory didn’t last long.  At about 3 p.m., Wet Seal’s banker told Clinton “it
appears you have won,” according to a U.S. Securities and
Exchange filing today. The board members Clinton wanted to
replace were ready to resign and assist with the transition,
said the banker, who wasn’t named in the document. Clinton
agreed to settle and began discussing a press release.  That all changed about seven and a half hours later when
the banker called back to say the proposal was off the table,
Clinton said in the filing. That means that Clinton, which owns
6.9 percent of Wet Seal, will continue pushing for its consent
solicitation, a proxy proposal that doesn’t require a meeting,
to be approved by shareholder vote.  “Consent solicitations are always contentious, but this
one is strange,” said Damien Park, a managing partner at Hedge
Fund Solutions LLC in Philadelphia, which researches and
consults on activist investing. Wet Seal may have learned in the
interim that a large shareholder changed its vote, he said.  Wet Seal declined 0.6 percent to $3.16 at the close in  New
York . The  Foothill Ranch , California-based company’s stock has
declined 3.1 percent this year.  ‘Reversing Themselves’  Retracting the resignations “is one more example of this
board taking an important decision and then reversing themselves
in short order,” Greg Taxin, a director at New York-based
Clinton Group, said in an interview. “It further demonstrates
their inability to make decisive moves as fiduciaries for the
shareholders.”  Many shareholders still haven’t voted, Taxin said.  “We keep getting calls from people who are looking for
ballots,” he said.  Dave Millar, a spokesman for Wet Seal, didn’t respond to
calls or an e-mail seeking comment.  Clinton has criticized the company since June, saying
shifting strategies, personnel changes and operational
mismanagement have hurt results. The retailer in July fired
Chief Executive Officer Susan McGalla after a year and a half in
the job, prompting Clinton to call for a sale to a buyer that
can revive the chain.  Wet Seal’s board, led by Chairman Harold Kahn, responded in
August by adopting a takeover defense, or poison pill, and
announcing a turnaround plan. It also hired Guggenheim
Securities LLC and Peter J. Solomon Co. to perform a strategic
review of the company to maximize  shareholder value .  Clinton then said it would nominate five members for the
board in an effort to improve the retailer’s declining revenue
and share price.  Same-store sales, a key measure of a retailer’s growth
because only established stores are counted, fell 13 percent in
September, the company said today in a statement. The results
show progress after revenue by the same measure sank 18 percent
in August, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  