-- Will Venezuelans Oust Chavez? Miracles Do Happen
-- B y   E n r i q u e   K r a u z e
-- 2012-10-03T22:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/will-venezuelans-oust-chavez-miracles-do-happen.html
If Henrique Capriles Radonski
triumphs in  Venezuela ’s elections on Oct. 7, it will be a
democratic feat without precedent in Latin American history.  It is possible that an opposition candidate has never faced
a force like that represented by  Hugo Chavez . His government
doesn’t employ physical violence as a state policy, but it
exercises another kind of coercive and menacing violence,
manifold and oppressive. Its power comes from the ballot box
under the tight control of arms -- his arms.  When democracy finally edged out dictatorships in
Argentina, Uruguay and  Chile , the military establishment --
because of public repudiation of its genocidal acts -- found
itself in irreversible retreat.  At the other end of the ideological spectrum, perhaps the
only case of an authoritarian leftist regime democratically
 overturned  was that of the Sandinistas in  Nicaragua  in 1990. But
the difficulties then weren’t as great as those involved in the
Venezuelan process, for the very reason that the Sandinista
government -- already in decline at the end of the 1980s --
wasn’t democratic, nor did it pretend to be.  Either way, whether against the militarist right or the
revolutionary left, democracy wasn’t obliged to retrace a path,
but to forge it.  Reclaiming Democracy  In Venezuela, the democrats must go back to before the
beginning: They must restore true meaning to what has become a
corrupted democracy. Chavez’s explicit aim has been to rule
until at least 2030, when he will be 76 (and if he makes it to
76, there is no question he will want to continue). But unlike
 Fidel Castro  of Cuba (and the Sandinistas or the old South
American dictators such as  Jose Gaspar Rodriguez de Francia  of
 Paraguay  or  Juan Vicente Gomez  of Venezuela), Chavez has
astutely used democracy to do away with democracy.  He has accomplished this step by step, institution by
institution, imposing his designs and spokesmen on the
Legislature, the judiciary, the fiscal and electoral bodies. If
he hasn’t finished his demolition work, it is because a broad
sector of Venezuelan society hasn’t forgotten the meaning of
freedom. In an unequal contest (because Chavez enjoys the
private property of public resources, and uses them lavishly to
his advantage), that sector has displayed an admirable spirit of
unity, and it has in Capriles a young, sensitive and visionary
leader. The possibilities of victory are real, but the adversary
-- despite (or thanks to) his illness -- is formidable.  Chavez isn’t just a caudillo: He is a redeemer. To play up
that twisted religious dimension, he has abused the media
pulpit. For many years, he appeared on the Sunday program “ Alo,
Presidente ,” a six-hour-long reality show in which Chavez
delivered monologues, danced, sang, recited, read letters,
declared his love for the people, railed at the empire and the
“pitiyanquis” (or “little Yankees,” the purported allies of the
U.S. within Venezuela), gave lessons on “21st-century
socialism,” recalled scenes from his autobiography (which in his
peculiar understanding of it is the incarnation of Venezuelan
history) and issued thundering decrees.  Before his Cabinet members (all dressed in red, silent and
as obedient as children in a classroom), he dictated
expropriations, troop movements, diplomatic insults and public
policies.  Many people in Venezuelan society rejected this spectacle.
But more than half of the electorate celebrated it. For them,
Chavez has been the reincarnation of  Simon Bolivar  and even
Christ’s representative on earth, now more so than ever as
Chavez has turned his grievous illness into a public calvary.  Chavez Loyalists  Beyond that incarnation is his social role. A considerable
number of poor Venezuelans have been grateful to him for the
“misiones” he established in 2003 (staffed mainly by Cubans, who
have also taken charge of the security apparatus) with the aim
of providing health care, food and education.  Though many of these programs have faced serious
operational problems and are designed not to promote people’s
autonomy, but rather their dependence on government, the
“Chavistas” don’t see it that way. The near monopoly on public
truth (which Chavez has enjoyed since he expropriated the major
public-television channels) has masked reality. Millions of
Venezuelans take his word as the mirror of truth, particularly
if they are public employees whose income depends -- or so they
believe -- on his munificence.  But the concealment of the truth has been massive. Will
Venezuelans ever assess the incredible squandering of the almost
$700 billion that passed through the coffers of Petroleos de
Venezuela SA, the state-owned  oil company  that was once a bigger
example of modernization than  Brazil ’s Petroleo Brasileiro SA?
It’s impossible to know.  Many understand that Venezuela is in the midst of a crisis:
Inflation and crime rates are among the highest in  South
America , and there are persistent shortages of goods. Basic
services are also in chaos as a result of harassment in the
private sector and because of inefficiency and corruption.  The  Capriles  campaign has been brave and conciliatory. His
proposals seek to restore financial sense and protect social
progress (real or perceived). Chavez has accused him of wanting
to end the “misiones”; Capriles insists he will touch them
only to improve them. Chavez points to him as the reincarnation
of the political old guard of Venezuela; Capriles has shown how
the bad practices of Chavismo are similar to those of the so-
called Fourth Republic and pledged that his government will
correct both.  Chavez has vilified him incessantly with crude insults and
has committed the sacrilege of calling him a Nazi, knowing that
Capriles’s great-grandparents were exterminated by the Nazis.
Capriles, meanwhile, has remained unruffled.  Opposition’s Opening  Anything can happen, including an outbreak of the endemic
violence that has plagued Venezuelan history. The fascination
with a sick Chavez and his far-reaching control of the state
apparatus may bring him victory.  If this is the case, the opposition must press on without
pause or discouragement. Chavez may triumph, but it will be a
hollow victory, and after his eventual death, divisions within
his group as well as internal and international pressures may
pave the way for a return to full democracy. Such a development
would have the additional effect of precipitating the Cuban
transition, drawing us nearer to the emergence -- unprecedented
in history -- of an entirely democratic  Latin America .  This outcome, which until recently would have seemed
utopian, is at hand if Capriles wins. We have witnessed such a
result before, in the December 2007 referendum, when
Venezuelans, against all forecasts, voted down a plan for
constitutional reform that would have turned the country into a
new Cuba.  I have faith in that civic miracle. And I hope that such a
victory will herald not only the return of democracy but
something much more important and necessary: the reconciliation
of the Venezuelan family, divided today by an ideological hatred
that is alien to it, that has poisoned it for almost 15 years,
and that has choked all possibility of harmony.  ( Enrique Krauze  is a historian and author of “ Mexico : A
Biography of Power” and of “Redeemers: Ideas and Power in Latin
America.” The opinions expressed are his own. This article was
translated from the Spanish by Natasha Wimmer.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
Enrique Krauze at  ekrauze@prodigy.net.mx .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 