-- Winter May Bring Snow to East, Boost Gas Use: AccuWeather
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-10-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/winter-may-bring-snow-to-east-boost-gas-use-accuweather.html
The winter of 2012-2013 will probably
bring a boost to heating fuels compared with last year and leave
above-normal snowfall from  Massachusetts  to  Alabama , AccuWeather
Inc. said.  The coldest part of the winter will probably be in
February, with slightly warmer than average weather in December
that may bring the entire season near normal, said  Paul Pastelok , long-range forecaster for AccuWeather in State
College,  Pennsylvania . The result for energy markets may be
brighter than last year, when record warmth helped crimp natural
gas prices.  “It’s not going to be a record year but they’re going to
do better than they did last year,” Pastelok said. “It’s hard
to say normal because I don’t know if anyone knows what normal
is anymore.”  Traders are watching the coming season because last year’s
higher U.S. temperatures, combined with increased production,
kept natural gas stockpiles up and prices down. Natural gas
futures fell to a 10-year low in the U.S. this year and by April
made the fuel the worst performer on Standard & Poor’s GSCI
commodity index.  The winter of 2011-2012 was the fourth-warmest on record in
the contiguous 48 states, with an average temperature of 36.8
degrees Fahrenheit (2.7 Celsius), said the  National Climatic
Data Center  in Asheville, North Carolina.  Weather Patterns  Among the main patterns in determining the weather for the
coming season are the Arctic and  North Atlantic  oscillations,
which can spill cold air into the heart of North America and
then keep it bottled up there for weeks.  While predicting what the oscillations will do more than a
few weeks in advance can be difficult, Pastelok said some
researchers believe they have identified features in the
atmosphere that may help forecasters.  According to that research, there are indications the
oscillations will favor their negative, or colder, phase, in
December to February, Pastelok said. In the next few weeks,
colder air will spread across the Midwest and U.S. Northeast,
and that may be an indication of how the winter takes shape.  Pastelok said the Appalachian Mountains south of New
Hampshire and the coastal areas of the mid-Atlantic states from
New York to  Virginia  may receive more snow than normal. The
northern U.S. from Washington and Oregon to northern  Illinois ,
including Chicago, will receive less, he said.  Boston and the northern New England states of New
Hampshire,  Vermont  and  Maine  should have near-normal snowfall
amounts, he said by telephone.  Unusually warm water in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of
New England may provide fuel for storms coming up the coast and
at the same time keep snowfall amounts lower. It’s not known how
long that warmer water will last, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  