-- Yankees Remain 1 Game Up in MLB’s AL East, A’s Tie Texas in West
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-10-03T05:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/yankees-win-to-remain-1-game-ahead-of-baltimore-in-mlb-s-al-east.html
Raul Ibanez  tied the game with a
pinch-hit two-run homer in the ninth inning and won it with a
run-scoring single in the 12th as the  New York Yankees  beat the
Boston  Red Sox  4-3 to maintain their one-game American League
East lead heading into the regular season’s final day.  The Baltimore Orioles had already won 1-0 at the Tampa Bay
Rays last night to pull within a half-game of the Yankees, who
trailed 3-1 heading into the bottom of the ninth.  In the AL West, the Oakland Athletics defeated Texas 3-1 to
tie the Rangers atop the division with 93-68 records -- meaning
that title will be decided today when the teams finish their
regular season at the Oakland Coliseum. The A’s were 13 games
behind Texas on June 30.  “We’ve rallied around each other,” Jonny Gomes, who hit a
solo homer for the A’s, said in a televised interview. “We got
homers, we got good defense and pitching.”  The A’s began the season next-to-last among the 30 Major
League Baseball teams with a $55 million payroll, compared with
a $121 million payroll for Texas that ranks sixth highest,
according to USA Today’s annual survey.  Miguel Cabrera  of the AL Central champion Detroit Tigers
went 2-for-3 with two runs batted in to solidify his chances of
becoming the first MLB player since Carl Yastrzemski in 1967 to
win the Triple Crown. He leads the league in batting average
(.331), home runs (44) and RBIs (139).  The Yankees (94-67) and Orioles (93-68) have one game left
in the regular season.  New York  hosts Boston again tonight and
the Orioles play their finale at Tampa Bay.  The teams, both assured of making the postseason as a wild
card even if they fail to win the division, would meet in a one-
game playoff tomorrow in Baltimore to determine the AL East
champion if they are tied after today’s games.  Double Plays  New York left eight men on base in the first eight innings
and  Mark Teixeira  grounded into two double plays, both times
with runners on first and third base. The Yankees’ only run
before the ninth came on a run-scoring infield single by Eduardo Nunez in the second inning.  The Red Sox scored two runs in the first inning on a run-
scoring double by Dustin Pedroia and a sacrifice fly by  Cody Ross . James Loney added a solo homer off  Rafael Soriano , the
fifth Yankees pitcher, in the ninth inning.  Chris Davis hit a solo home run in the third inning and
four Orioles pitchers held the Rays to two hits. It was the 33rd
homer of the season for Davis, who has a home run in six
straight games.  Miguel Gonzalez (9-4) pitched the first 6 1/3 innings for
Baltimore, allowing two hits and striking out seven. Jim Johnson
pitched the ninth inning for his 51st save of the season.  James Shields  (15-10) took the loss for Tampa Bay despite
pitching a complete-game two-hitter and striking out 15.  National League  In the National League, the Cincinnati Reds and Washington
Nationals both won and remain tied for the best record in
baseball at 97-64. The Reds have clinched the NL Central
division title and the Nationals are winners of the NL East.  Even though they lost 3-1 to the Reds, the St. Louis
Cardinals clinched the second NL wild-card spot when the  Los
Angeles Dodgers  lost 4-3 to the NL West champion San Francisco
Giants. The  Atlanta Braves  hold the other NL wild-card spot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  