-- Yen Drops Versus Major Peers Before Central Bank Meetings
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-10-04T07:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/yen-stays-lower-against-peers-before-boj-begins-policy-meeting.html
The yen weakened for a sixth day
against the euro on speculation central banks around the world
will take more steps to avert an economic slowdown, curbing
demand for refuge assets.  Japan’s currency dropped to a two-week low versus the
dollar as the  Bank of Japan (8301)  started a two-day meeting after
expanding stimulus last month. The euro appreciated against 13
of its 16 major peers before European Central Bank policy makers
convene to discuss ways to contain the region’s debt crisis. The
JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index  declined to the lowest level in
almost five years.  “I expect the BOJ to bolster aggressive monetary easing”
when it wants to halt declines in stocks and stop the yen rising
versus the dollar, said Kengo Suzuki, a foreign-exchange
strategist at  Mizuho Securities  in  Tokyo . “Such a move would
keep the yen in check.”  The yen dropped 0.5 percent to 101.76 per euro at 8:46 a.m.
in London after falling to 101.82, the weakest since Sept. 24.
Japan’s currency declined 0.2 percent to 78.61 per dollar after
sliding to 78.72, the lowest since Sept. 19. The euro advanced
0.3 percent to $1.2944.  Reports over the past week have added to the case for the
BOJ to expand stimulus to boost growth and achieve its 1 percent
inflation goal.  Consumer prices  in August matched the steepest
decline in 16 months and the nation’s biggest manufacturers grew
more pessimistic last quarter.  Asset Purchases  The BOJ increased its asset-purchase program by 10 trillion
yen to 55 trillion yen at its previous meeting on Sept. 19,
 saying  the economy’s pick-up was slowing while prices were flat.  The yen dropped 1.7 percent in the past month, the worst
performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar declined 1.4
percent and the euro strengthened 1.9 percent.  Price swings in major currencies waned before the central
banks in Europe and the U.K. also hold policy meetings. The
JPMorgan G7 Volatility Index dropped 0.04 to 7.72 percent, the
lowest level since October 2007.  The ECB will keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a record-
low 0.75 percent today, according to Bloomberg News survey of
economists. President  Mario Draghi  unveiled a program of
unlimited bond purchases last month to ease borrowing costs for
debt-ridden nations, spurring a rally in the shared currency.  Spain  will sell two-, three- and five-year notes today as
investors weigh whether the nation will ask for an international
bailout. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  this week denied he has
immediate plans to seek assistance.  Markets ‘Disappointed’  “The markets are disappointed that Spain may not seek aid
soon,” said Kazuo Shirai, a trader at Union Bank NA in Los
Angeles. “That’s leading to a little bit of euro selling.”  The  Bank of England  will leave its asset-purchase  target  at
375 billion pounds at its monthly gathering today, according to
all 40 economist forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. The central
bank will also leave its main  interest rate  at a record-low 0.5
percent, according to all 50 estimates in a separate survey.  The pound was little changed at 80.30 pence per euro, and
rose 0.2 percent to $1.6107.  The  Federal Reserve  will today publish minutes of its Sept.
12-13 meeting, when it announced a third round of so-called
quantitative easing. The central bank will maintain record
stimulus even after economic expansion gains strength, Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said this week.  A Labor Department report tomorrow will show the U.S.
unemployment rate rose to 8.2 percent in September from 8.1
percent the previous month, economists in a Bloomberg survey
forecast. The jobless rate has stayed above 8 percent since
February 2009. U.S. payrolls increased by 115,000 last month,
according to a separate Bloomberg survey.  The Fed minutes “may provide a bit of insight as to
whether the Fed discussed the continuation of asset purchases at
year-end,”  Mary Nicola , a New York-based currency strategist at
BNP Paribas SA, wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “This
could drive the dollar lower as the market starts to see that
outright Treasury purchases are in the pipeline.”  -- With assistance from Masaki Kondo in Singapore and Mika
Otsuka in New York. Editors: Nicholas Reynolds, Mark McCord  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 