-- Zloty Rallies, Bonds Slump as Poland Unexpectedly Holds Rates
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-10-03T16:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-03/zloty-rallies-bonds-slump-as-poland-unexpectedly-holds-rates.html
The zloty rallied and bond prices
fell as  Poland ’s central bank unexpectedly left  interest rates 
unchanged after the slowest economic growth in almost three
years.  The zloty jumped 0.6 percent to 4.0866 per euro as of 5:55
p.m. in Warsaw, having declined before the announcement. Yields
on five-year bonds rose five basis points to 4.22 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The decision to hold interest rates at a three-year high of
4.75 percent was expected by eight of 35 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, while the remaining 27 forecast a quarter point
reduction. Poland’s gross domestic product growth slowed to 2.4
percent in the second quarter, down from 3.5 percent in the
first quarter and the least since 2009, as domestic demand
contracted amid a debt and economic crisis in the euro region.  “The market was fully expecting a cut,”  Rafal Benecki ,
chief economist for Poland at ING Groep NV in Warsaw, wrote in
an e-mailed comment. “We may see stronger zloty and weakening
of the shorter” dated bonds, although the “reaction should be
rather limited and transitory,” Benecki wrote.  Governor  Marek Belka  said at a news conference following
the decision that the central bank “will ease monetary policy”
next month should data show the economy slowing further and
limited inflation risks.  Investors in interest-rate derivatives are expecting policy
makers to cut borrowing costs 100 basis points over the next
year, with 12-month forward-rate agreements trading 1.1
percentage point below the three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered
Rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation  The decision comes after central banks in the  Czech
Republic  and  Hungary  cut borrowing costs last week in response
to slowing demand from the euro area, the biggest trading
partner for east European economies. Polish policy makers have
to weigh weakening growth against  inflation  that has stayed
above their 2.5-percent target for 23 months.  Fitch Ratings today cut its forecast for Polish growth this
year and next to 2.5 percent while saying the economy will still
“outperform” average growth rates in the region and in the 27-
member European Union, according to a report.  “What goes around comes around,”  Piotr Bielski , an
economist at Bank Zachodni WBK SA, wrote in an e-mailed comment.
“The upcoming macroeconomic data will confirm that economic
slowdown is protracted while the risk of increase in
inflationary pressure is limited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  