-- ‘House of Morgan’ Nurtured by Crisis ‘Mystified’ Senators
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-06-14T03:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/-house-of-morgan-nurtured-by-crisis-mystified-senators.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon ’s U.S. Senate testimony yesterday
underscored how much more complex and government-dependent the
bank has become, said historian Ron Chernow.  “What happens today with Jamie Dimon, because of the scale
and scope of JPMorgan Chase, is a Main Street story,” said
Chernow, who wrote the 1990 book “The House of Morgan.” In
1933, when then-CEO J.P. “Jack” Morgan Jr. testified before
Congress, it “was in essence a Wall Street story.”  Dimon, 56, described to the Senate Banking Committee how
the New York-based company’s $2 billion loss on  credit
derivatives  stemmed from a unit of the business that helps
invest part of the lender’s  $1.1 trillion in deposits . In 1933,
Jack Morgan’s bank didn’t have retail customers and federal
insurance for deposits hadn’t yet been created.  “You can just imagine in this environment if there wasn’t
 deposit insurance  how much money would be left in these banks,”
Chernow said in a telephone interview. “The tradeoff was that
in exchange for federally insured deposits that bankers would
behave in a particularly cautious and responsible manner.”  JPMorgan, now the biggest U.S. bank with $2.3 trillion of
assets, grew during the 2008 financial crisis when it acquired
Washington Mutual Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos. with the federal
government’s support.  “It was quite counterintuitive that, to this day, the
government’s response to the crisis was to create yet bigger and
more complicated institutions,” Chernow said. “In addition to
the deposit insurance and the regulated nature, another reason
why the government has a special stake in this firm is because
it was partly a creation of the government during the financial
crisis.”  ‘Very Telling’  In 1933, the company was closely held, unregulated and its
business of lending and underwriting was simpler for  management 
and the public to understand, according to Chernow.  “The fact that the senators seemed slightly mystified by
what had happened is really very significant and very telling,”
Chernow said of yesterday’s hearing. “How can the government
exercise oversight when the instruments that federally regulated
banks are using and trading in have become so complex, high-
risk, and highly leveraged?”  “The senators don’t understand it and unfortunately, as we
saw in 2008 and as apparently has now happened again, senior
management doesn’t understand it, and sometimes even if they
think they do they don’t really understand all of the
implications,” Chernow said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 