-- ‘LulzSec’ Associated Indicted in U.S. for Hack Attacks
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/-lulzsec-associated-indicted-in-u-s-for-hack-attacks.html
A 20-year-old U.K. man and associate
of the “LulzSec” hacking group was indicted on charges of
computer attacks on Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc., Fox
Entertainment Group Inc. and other entities.  Ryan Cleary, incarcerated as he faces foreign prosecution
in England, was indicted by a federal grand jury in  Los Angeles 
on one count of conspiracy and two counts of impairing
computers, Andre Birotte, U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles, said in
an e-mail yesterday.  From April through June last year, Cleary conspired with
LulzSec members to hack into computer systems and steal data and
launch attacks that flood targeted computer systems with
commands to disable them, prosecutors alleged.  Cleary controlled a large botnet of tens of thousands, and
potentially hundreds of thousands of bots, prosecutors said.
Botnets are a collection of computers infected with malicious
software. Cleary used his botnet to conduct attacks against
various entities, prosecutors said.  Karen Todner, Cleary’s attorney in the U.K., didn’t respond
to an e-mail message seeking comment on the indictment sent
after regular business hours yesterday.  Cleary was charged in  England  with installing or altering
files on Pentagon computers that were controlled by the U.S. Air
Force and accessing computers operated by  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth
Century Fox,  Sony Corp. (6758) , the U.K.’s National Health Service, the
 Arizona  State Police, and technology-security company HBGary
Inc.  LulzSec is known for its affiliation with the international
group of hackers known as “Anonymous,” which was described in
the June 12 indictment as a collective of computer hackers and
other individuals located throughout the world who conduct cyber
attacks against individuals and entities they perceive to be
hostile to its interests.  The case is U.S. v. Cleary, 12-561, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  