-- Stench of Dead Bodies Lingers in Deserted Syrian Town
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-06-15T10:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/-stench-of-dead-bodies-lingers-in-deserted-syrian-town.html
The smell of dead bodies lingered as
United Nations monitors entered the deserted Syrian town of
Haffa, where they observed evidence of looting and burned
buildings in what had been a farming community of  Sunni Muslims .  At the site of what may be the third massacre in three
weeks, an unarmed UN team reported evidence of shelling and
heavy fighting as members walked through a scene of torched
cars, burned offices and stores, and looted homes, according to
UN spokeswoman Sausan Ghosheh.  “A strong stench of dead bodies was in the air, and there
appeared to be pockets in the town where fighting is still
ongoing,” she said yesterday. “The number of casualties is
still unclear.”  The international community has been unable to stop an
escalation in the violence in Syria, including massacres of
Sunni civilians blamed on government-backed shabiha militiamen.  At least 60 people were killed nationwide yesterday
according to the Local Coordination Committees, an activist
group. More than 10,000 Syrians have died since the start of an
uprising against the four-decade rule of President Bashar al- Assad’s family, part of the minority Alawites, a sect related to
Shiite Islam.  The bodies of nine people, some of them killed by knives,
were found in Hamoria near Damascus, the U.K.-based Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights  said in an e-mail today. There were
signs that they were executed, Al Jazeera television said.  Arrival Blocked  In  Washington , the State Department acknowledged that the
shipment of Russian helicopters criticized by U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  on June 12 involved equipment being
returned after refurbishment, not new helicopters. State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said the U.S. is concerned
that the three helicopters, whether new or refurbished, will
join those now being used to attack civilians.  UN observers had been trying since June 7 to reach besieged
Haffa, which Syrian forces were seeking to reclaim. Two days
ago, a mob threw stones and metal rods at monitors, whose
vehicles were shot at as they sought to enter the town.  A crackdown by Assad on what started as a peaceful
opposition movement has pushed  Syria  toward sectarian violence
pitting the majority Sunnis against the Alawite leadership in a
patchwork nation of ethnic and religious groups.  Summit Talks  “Soldiers and shabiha militias burned down homes and
properties and fired indiscriminately into residential areas,
killing and injuring civilian bystanders,” according to a 70-
page  report  released yesterday by  Amnesty International , citing
unauthorized visits to 23 sites in the Aleppo and Idlib areas.  “Those who were arrested, including the sick and elderly,
were routinely tortured, sometimes to death,” the report said.
“Many have been subjected to enforced disappearance; their fate
remains unknown.”  Insurgents, deploying guerrilla tactics such as ambushes
and targeting army generals for assassination, are grabbing
control of territory and relying on Persian Gulf nations for
weapons. Pro-government forces are retaliating with increasing
brutality, as shown in the massacres of Sunni civilians around
Houla and in the village of Qubeir.  Syria will top the foreign-policy agenda at the Group of 20
meeting in Los Cabos,  Mexico , on June 18-19.  Russia , which is selling weapons to Assad and has provided
him with political cover, will come under renewed pressure from
Western leaders led by the U.S., U.K. and France to use its
influence to bring about a political transition.  Russia has responded by suggesting that Iran, another
country with some sway over Assad, should join the negotiations
at a conference to be held at the end of this month. UN envoy
 Kofi Annan  has proposed that the meeting should take place in
Geneva on June 30, Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  told
reporters in Moscow today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  