-- 3-D Copying Makes Michelangelos of the Masses
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2012-06-14T22:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/3-d-copying-makes-michelangelos-of-the-masses.html
When  Cosmo Wenman  went to the J.
Paul  Getty Museum  in  Los Angeles  in late May, he did what many
people do.  He took photos of some of his favorite sculptures. But
instead of a few snapshots, Wenman took hundreds of pictures,
documenting busts and reliefs from every accessible angle. Then
he did something currently unusual -- but likely to become
common.  Wenman turned the photos into three-dimensional digital
maps, using a free program called  Autodesk 123D Catch . Then he
used the maps to print miniature plastic replicas on the $2,000
MakerBot 3-D printer in his  home office . And he made one of his
best scans freely available, uploading it to the Thingiverse
site where MakerBot enthusiasts share digital plans. Now,
alongside the hobbyist designs for specialty tools, robot
figurines and hair ornaments, you can find  an 18th-century
relief , John Deare’s “Venus Reclining on a Sea Monster with
Cupid and a Putto.”  On Thingiverse, you can also find data maps for  around
three dozen sculptures  from the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art in
 New York . Unlike Wenman’s one-man amateur venture, these scans
are the result of an official collaboration between  MakerBot
Industries LLC  and the Met. This month, the museum hosted a two-
day  “Hackathon”  in which artists working with MakerBot staff
members and equipment used the  same process  to create scans and
replicas of Met sculptures, as well as their own  derivative
works.   Digital Scans  The technology is still primitive and frustrating, and the
scans it produces are far from perfect, but the future is clear.
The masterworks of three-dimensional art are joining the digital
commons. For art lovers, this technological moment represents a
tremendous opportunity. The combination of digital scans and
inexpensive 3-D printing could do for three-dimensional art what
prints have been doing for paintings and drawings for 500 years:
make these works familiar, beloved and visually influential to
people who will never have a chance to see them in person.  “If you’re an art teacher who can get your hands on a
MakerBot, you can now create a section of the Met that you can
have in your classroom to inspire your students,” says Bre Pettis, the co-founder and chief executive officer of MakerBot
Industries and a former middle-school art teacher in  Seattle .
It’s a chance, in Wenman’s words, “to spread faithful
reproductions of treasured artwork far beyond the walls of elite
palaces.”  The question is how the elite palaces will react. Will the
institutions that own the originals encourage making data maps
public? Or will museums try to lock up the digital versions of
their treasures, so that duplication becomes a pirate activity?
Attempts at the latter might ultimately fail, but they would
still slow down and stigmatize a process that could greatly
enhance the value of the world’s artistic heritage.  The initial response, by the Met and the Getty, is
encouraging.  Pettis says he always assumed that digitizing sculptures
would require a virtual “heist” involving an expensive scanner
and a lot of subterfuge. Instead, photo-stitching software got
increasingly powerful and the country’s most prestigious museum
embraced the idea. “It turns out they have the same values that
I do,” he says of Met officials.  Global Audience  Art museums are, after all, nonprofit educational
institutions run by people who love art and want to share it.
They have lawyers who fret about copyrights on recent works, of
course. (Museums often own the objects but not reproduction
rights.) But when it comes to objects more than a century old,
let’s hope the prospect of a little gift shop revenue pales
before the thrill of reaching a new and enthusiastic global
audience.  “It’s really exciting to see people taking such an
interest in our collection,” says John Giurini, the Getty’s
assistant director of public affairs, when asked about a YouTube
 video  Wenman posted about his project.  Wenman, who is an old friend of mine, argues that
disseminating digital scans will actually enhance the importance
of museum originals, as more people come to know and cherish the
artworks and well-documented provenance becomes even more
important in establishing authenticity. “Museums will
eventually be measured by the quality of the data they publish,
and their expert scholarship and curation, as much as by the
collections they control,” he writes in an essay accompanying
the video.  Taking enough photos to create a scan can itself change the
way you experience a work of art. “You really get to know the
object,” says Pettis, who was surprised to find that
photographing  Rodin’s Madame X  at the Met left him with the kind
of detailed memory he used to get from sketching objects, even
though the process took only five or 10 minutes.  “I actually know the pieces of her hair, how her ear
attaches to her head, how her nostrils go up, what her chin
looks like,” he adds. “I can start thinking about, What is the
statue feeling? This is an experience that usually only fine
artists get to have with objects.” Cleaning up a scan, or
looking at it on the computer as a series of lines and
triangles, further familiarizes one with the sculpture’s
structure. Pettis suggests that the technology might provide a
“secret pathway through art education.”  Pure Relationship  Scans can also provide fodder for new sculptures and who-
knows-what other applications. (The Met Hackathon has already
led to a music video, “ We Met Heads On ,” available at
Vimeo.com.) A digital representation is, after all, the ultimate
abstract art, turning physical objects into the pure
relationship of points in space.  It will take more than tacit museum approval and a few
special events to come anywhere close to Pettis’s ultimate goal.
“When I started MakerBot,” he says, “I really quickly started
thinking about, ‘How do we acquire all the art of the world so
we can reproduce it?”’ Toward that end, he hopes to inspire
groups of friends to do their own grass-roots “scan-a-thons,”
visiting museums or other art-filled public spaces, capturing
objects, and uploading the files. “Try it with a group of
friends,” he exhorts. “Make it an event. Make it a party.”  But museums need not leave the scanning job up to amateurs
armed with digital cameras. Top-flight institutions already have
scanning and 3-D modeling departments for conservation and study
efforts. Unfortunately, their scans aren’t available to the
public. Far-sighted museums could inventory and release what
they have on hand. With patron support, they could sponsor still
more.  Institutions could also get creative, finding tech-savvy
partners. The Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittsburgh, for
instance, might enlist students and faculty from  Carnegie Mellon
University ’s high-powered engineering, industrial design and
visual arts programs -- not only playing to the university’s
strengths but also updating a venerable museum tradition.  Plaster Casts  The Carnegie Museum still displays one of the few remaining
 large collections of plaster casts  reproducing classic works of
architecture and sculpture. Such exacting reproductions were a
popular 19th-century way of permitting people who couldn’t
afford to travel to study three-dimensional works in detail.
(The Victoria & Albert Museum in  London  also has a  large cast
collection,  as well as its own great collection of potentially
scannable decorative art and sculpture.) Twentieth-century
tastemakers scorned such half measures, forcing impecunious art
lovers in out-of-the-way places to content themselves with
photographs. Now digital scans and 3-D printers promise to
restore that lost access and spread it to just about anyone
anywhere.  The high-tech effort to bring art to the masses does have
something of a can-do 19th-century spirit about it.  Andrew Carnegie , who also sponsored more than 2,500 public libraries,
would approve.  Wenman imagines a different 19th-century precedent. He
envisions a public-spirited race for private status, with
billionaire filmmakers and tech tycoons competing to outdo one
another with the quality, cleverness and exoticism of the scans
they sponsor. “Somebody could do a Victorian-style expedition:
‘I want to send someone to the Yucatan to do this Mayan
sculpture. I want the highest resolution. I don’t care if you
have to buy equipment, just get it done. I want you to select a
grad student who’s working on something connected to it. I want
a nice little essay about it,”’ he suggests.  The real prestige would come, however, from releasing the
scan to the public domain, with the sponsor’s name attached.
It’s a way of becoming the Medici or Carnegie of the digital
era.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more  opinion online  from Bloomberg View.  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 