-- Malaysian Airline to Double Asia Pacific Destinations
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-06-15T10:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/malaysian-airline-to-double-asia-pacific-destinations.html
Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS) 
intends to almost double its Asia-Pacific destinations in three
years as part of a turnaround plan prompted by five straight
quarterly losses.  The carrier may fly to 25 cities in countries including
 China ,  Japan  and  India  by 2015, compared with 13 regional
destinations now, Chairman Md Nor Yusof said in an interview
yesterday in Subang, near Kuala Lumpur where the carrier is
based. Flights on some existing routes will also be increased by
as much as 50 percent, he said.  “The airline business is closely linked to the economic
cycle and there is a consensus that the Asia-Pacific region is
the bright spot,” Md Nor said. “There’s plenty of reasons to
be optimistic.”  The carrier may also make some job cuts as part of the
restructuring to be announced at a June 21 annual shareholders’
meeting, Md Nor said without elaboration. The new proposal comes
after parent companies of Malaysian Air and AirAsia Bhd. last
month unwound a share swap agreement following complaints by the
national carrier’s biggest union.  Malaysian Air was unchanged at 1.15 ringgit at close of
trading in  Kuala Lumpur  today. The stock has dropped 12 percent
this year,  compared with  a 3 percent gain in the benchmark FTSE
Bursa  Malaysia  KLCI Index.  “Despite the ongoing reforms, such as network reviews, we
expect Malaysian Air to continue to report losses in its 2012
financial year,” Annuar Aziz, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group
AG said in a report today. “The weakness in the passenger
network has been matched by weak cargo demand.”  Downgraded  Annuar downgraded the stock to underperform from neutral,
cutting its price target to 90 sen from 1.50 ringgit. This means
its total return is expected to underperform Malaysia’s
benchmark index by as much as 15 percent over the next 12
months, Credit Suisse said.  East Asia  and the Pacific region is forecast to expand 7.6
percent this year and the growth may accelerate to 8.1 percent
in 2013, compared with 2.5 percent and 3 percent for the global
economy, the  World Bank  said in a report on June 12.  Malaysian Air will stick to its existing planes orders, Md
Nor said. The carrier took delivery of the first of six on-order
Airbus SAS A380 superjumbo last month. It will start services
with the plane on July 1 with a trip to  London .  Waiting List  “The bookings for the A380s have been good and there is a
waiting list at the moment,” Md Nor said, declining to
elaborate.  The airline, which earlier planned to own new planes, has
now turned to the Malaysian government to purchase the A380s and
two A330s worth 5.3 billion ringgit ($1.7 billion). The carrier
can lease the planes from the government with an option to buy
them at the end of the contract, Md Nor said. Talks are still on
with the  Finance Ministry , he said.  Malaysian Air will cooperate with  AirAsia (AIRA)  in areas
including procurement, aircraft maintenance and training as it
seeks to pare costs, Md Nor said. Khazanah Nasional Bhd., which
controls 69 percent of the carrier, exchanged back its 10
percent stake in AirAsia for 20.5 percent of Malaysian Air last
month.  Fifth Loss  Malaysian Air posted a loss of 171.8 million ringgit in the
three months ended in March because of higher fuel costs and
competition from low-cost carriers. It may report an annual loss
of 529 million ringgit, according to the average of 12 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The carrier had a loss of 2.5
billion ringgit in 2011.  The airline this month sold 1 billion ringgit of Islamic
bonds that didn’t have a set maturity in the country’s first
offering of such debt. It has commitments from investors to buy
the remaining 1.5 billion ringgit of the so-called perpetual
sukuk, according to Chief Executive Officer Ahmad Jauhari.  The funds will be used for working capital and to refinance
existing loans, the carrier said in a May 22 statement. The
company has  4.3 billion ringgit  of bonds and loans including the
sukuk sold this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  