-- Stanford Gets 110-Year Sentence for $7 Billion Fraud
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/allen-stanford-sentenced-to-110-years-in-prison-for-ponzi-scheme.html
R.  Allen Stanford  was sentenced to
110 years in prison for leading a $7 billion international fraud
on investors whom one prosecutor said the defendant treated like
“road kill.”  U.S. District Judge David Hittner in Houston imposed the
sentence yesterday, after saying Stanford had been found guilty
of “one of the most egregious criminal frauds ever presented to
a jury in federal court.” He ordered Stanford to forfeit
$5.9 billion. Jurors in March convicted the Stanford Financial
Group principal of 13 charges, including five counts of mail
fraud and four of  wire fraud .  The jury found Stanford, 62, lied to those who bought
certificates of deposit issued by his Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd. and sold in the U.S. by his Houston-
based securities firm. Prosecutors said Stanford wasted investor
money on failing businesses, yachts and cricket tournaments and
secretly borrowed as much as $2 billion from his bank.  “From beginning to end, he’s treated his victims like road
kill,” Assistant U.S. Attorney William Stellmach told the judge
yesterday before a courtroom packed with some of those victims.
“Allen Stanford doesn’t deserve anyone’s sympathy, and he
doesn’t deserve your honor’s mercy.”  Stanford had no visible reaction to the sentence.
Maintaining a fixed gaze at the judge, he didn’t look back at
his mother, Sammie, or daughter Randi, who were among the 200
attendees.  ‘Very Disappointed’  Stanford’s attorneys said the conviction and sentence will
be appealed.  “We’re very disappointed in the outcome,” said Ali Fazel,
a Stanford lawyer. “It’s a harsh punishment, and it’s tough on
him. He is upset because he feels like he didn’t do anything.”  Stanford, whose sentence is 40 years shorter than the
prison term meted out to  Bernard Madoff  in 2009, defended
himself to the end.  “I’ve been called a lot of things -- arrogant, abrasive, a
son of a gun, difficult, very opinionated and strong-willed. But
I am not a thief,” Stanford, dressed in green prison garb, told
the judge during a 30-minute address. “I never planned to,
never did, either corporately or personally, defraud anyone and
never set out to do that.”  Stanford told the court, “I worked my butt off for 30
years to build this company,” adding later, “If we’d been
allowed, we could have liquidated every single asset and paid
off every single depositor liability and every single depositor
and still had significant and substantial assets remaining.”  ‘That’s Obscene’  Stellmach, the prosecutor, disagreed.  “Stanford is proclaiming himself a scapegoat,” Stellmach
said. “According to him, he’s the only true victim in this
case. That shows the depth of his deceit and lack of remorse
that have been his trademark. That’s obscene.”  Prosecutors asked for a 230-year term, the maximum under
federal sentencing guidelines. Fazel requested a 10-year term
for his client.  “Thirty years and 110 years are effectively the same
sentence,” Doug Burns, a former prosecutor, said in an
interview yesterday. “The judge obviously felt a very high
sentence was necessary.”  “A triple-digit, eye-popping sentence might make for good
headlines but it does not make any sense whatsoever in terms of
sound sentencing policies,” Barry Pollack, a Washington-based
criminal defense attorney, said in a phone interview yesterday.  Neither Pollack nor Burns was involved in the Stanford
case.  ‘Monopoly Money’  “It’s Monopoly money. It’s not a real number,” Pollack
said, adding that symbolic sentences can actually undermine the
integrity of the sentencing process.  “I would much rather see sentences that are crafted to fit
the actual facts and circumstances of the individual case than
to use sentencing as a mouthpiece to voice public anger,” he
said.  Sammie Stanford, 82, said after the hearing that she was
prepared for her son to get a long prison sentence.  “In view of everything else that’s happened, I didn’t
expect anything different,” she said.  Stanford, who was ranked 205 on Forbes magazine’s 2008 list
of the richest Americans, with a net worth of $2.2 billion, has
been jailed since being indicted in June 2009 after prosecutors
said he might try to flee.  Defense Claims  Jurors rejected defense claims that investors received
adequate disclosures of how their money was being spent and that
any wrongdoing was the fault of Stanford’s finance chief, James Davis, who pleaded guilty to fraud and testified for the
prosecution.  Saying he had read every one of the 350 letters received
from victims, the judge said, “Stanford ruined the lives of
thousands of victims all over the world who entrusted him with
their life savings.”  One of the victims, Angela Shaw Kogutt, referred to an
honorary knighthood conferred upon Stanford by the Antiguan
government and later rescinded.  “He treated our savings like they were Monopoly money,”
she told the judge. “Make sure the knight never sees the light
of day again.”  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 