-- Allied Irish Plans to Cut Bank Executives’ Pay by Up to 15%
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-06-14T12:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/allied-irish-plans-to-cut-bank-executives-pay-by-up-to-15-1-.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , which needed
a 20.7 billion-euro ($26 billion) state bailout, plans to cut
executives’ and senior managers’ pay, freeze staff salaries and
reduce pension costs.  The Dublin-based bank will shave executive committee
members’ salaries and pay-related allowances by 15 percent
starting in August, with other executives facing a 10 percent
cut and senior managers a 7.5 percent reduction, Chief Executive
Officer  David Duffy  said in a staff e-mail today. The e-mail,
obtained by Bloomberg News, was confirmed by Niamh Hennessy, a
bank spokeswoman.  “AIB’s cost-to-income ratio in 2011 was 96.2 percent and,
as you will all be aware, this level of cost is unsustainable in
the current economic environment,” wrote Duffy, who became CEO
in December, with a 500,000-euro-a-year cap on his salary. “It
is imperative that the cost base of the bank is sufficiently
aligned with the overall operating performance to attract
external investors.”  The 99.8 percent state-owned lender, Ireland’s second
largest by assets, announced plans in March to eliminate 2,500
jobs, marking the biggest cutbacks in Irish banking history.
Ireland has injected 20.7 billion euros to bail out the bank and
smaller lender EBS, which it was ordered by the government to
take over in July, amid bad-loan losses after the collapse of
the real estate market in 2008.  Pension Changes  “With regard to all other staff, we are engaged in
discussions with unions on a proposal for a potential general
pay freeze until end-2014,” Duffy said, adding that he intends
to move all employees onto defined-contribution pension plans,
where retirement benefits are linked to the performance of
funds, from defined-benefit and hybrid plans, where payments are
linked to final pay levels.  Allied Irish  has lost 28.1 billion euros on soured loans
over four years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.
The figures include loan-impairment charges and losses on
divestments such as the sale of real estate assets to the
 National Asset Management Agency , Ireland’s so-called bad bank.  Duffy said on March 30, as the lender reported its full-
year net loss narrowed to 2.29 billion euros from 10.2 billion
euros in 2011, that he hopes to attract investors back to the
bank next year to start repaying some of its rescue costs.  The  Finance Ministry  said in November Duffy’s appointment
was subject to a state-imposed 500,000-euro-a-year salary cap,
no benefit-in-kind payments and employer pension contributions
set at 15 percent of salary into a defined-benefit plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  