-- American Airlines Wins Order Blocking Union Election
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-14T16:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/american-airlines-wins-order-blocking-union-election.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  won a
court order temporarily blocking passenger-service employees
from conducting a union representation election because it might
violate  labor laws .  U.S. District Judge Terry R. Means in Fort Worth,  Texas ,
yesterday granted the provisional order requested by the airline
three days ago. He also denied a National Mediation Board bid to
dismiss the carrier’s lawsuit and slated a consolidated
preliminary injunction hearing and trial for June 21.  “American appears likely to succeed on the merits of its
claims, and thus immediate, substantial and irreparable damage,
injury and loss will result to American before a hearing on its
request for a preliminary or permanent injunction can be had,”
Means said in a four-page order.  The passenger-service employees, who take reservations and
work at airports, are scheduled for a vote on whether to be
represented by the  Communications Workers of America . The
balloting is set to take place from June 21 to Aug. 2, according
to the union.  The third-biggest U.S. airline sued the board in May over
its decision to order the election, arguing it failed to
determine whether the election was supported by 50 percent of
the employees in the class as required by federal labor law.  There are 9,400 workers in the passenger service employee
class, according to the union.  ‘It’s Un-American’  “It’s agents at American Airlines who will be irreparably
harmed because they are being denied their democratic right to
vote,”  Candice Johnson , union spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “It’s un-American.”  In its May 2 complaint, American said that while the
union’s request for the election in December met a then-
applicable employee-interest standard of 35 percent, the
threshold was raised to 50 percent, effective immediately, in
February before the board ordered the vote.  The  National Mediation Board , seeking dismissal of the
suit, argued there was no requirement that the statute be
applied retroactively to election applications, and that the
court had no jurisdiction over the dispute.  Means rejected that argument yesterday and ruled the case
could go forward.  “Now, as we have hoped all along, the court will have a
full opportunity to review and rule on whether or not the
correct law was applied in the NMB’s decision to call for an
election,” Missy Cousino, a spokeswoman for Fort Worth, Texas-
based American Airlines, said in an e-mailed statement.  There was no reply to a voice-mail message left with the
National Mediation Board information hotline in  Washington .  The case is American Airlines Inc. v. National Mediation
Board, 12-cv-276, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Texas ( Fort Worth ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  