-- Americans See Biggest Home Equity Jump in 60 Years
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2012-06-14T16:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/americans-see-biggest-home-equity-jump-in-60-years-mortgages.html
Americans are digging themselves out
of mortgage  debt .  Home equity in the first quarter rose to $6.7 trillion, the
highest level since 2008, as homeowners taking advantage of
record-low borrowing costs to refinance their loans brought cash
to the table to pay down principal. The 7.3 percent gain was the
biggest jump in more than 60 years, according to an analysis by
Bloomberg of Federal Reserve data.  It’s the strongest sign yet that Americans’ home-loan debt
burden is beginning to ease after the record borrowing that
created, and ultimately popped, the housing  bubble , leaving
almost a quarter of homeowners with mortgages owing more than
their properties were worth, said  Richard DeKaser , deputy chief
economist at Parthenon Group LLC in Boston. Half the mortgages
refinanced in the fourth quarter reduced loan size, a record,
according to  Freddie Mac , the government-owned mortgage buyer.  “The willingness of homeowners to carry housing debt has
been radically altered,” said DeKaser, former chairman of the
 American Bankers Association ’s Economic Advisory Committee.
“When the market was booming, a mortgage was used as a
leveraging tool, and now it’s seen as a risk.”  Measured as a share, rather than in dollars, homeowner
equity was 41 percent of U.S. residential property  value  in the
first quarter, including homeowners who don’t have mortgages,
according to the Fed study released last week. The last time the
share was that high was in the third quarter of 2008 when it was
43 percent.  ‘Bubble Burst’  “People got too overleveraged in the boom years, and that
left them with too much debt when the  bubble burst ,” said  Paul Miller , a managing director with FBR Capital Markets in
Arlington, Virginia. “Now, they’re trying to put themselves
back on solid ground.”  Residential mortgage debt peaked in 2007 at $10.6 trillion,
doubling in six years, according to Fed data. Since then, it has
fallen 7 percent as the value of all residential property has
dropped 23 percent.  Americans aren’t just bringing money to the table when they
refinance their mortgages. Many also are choosing to shorten the
term of their loans, which increases monthly payments. The
average mortgage term fell to 27 years in March and April from
29 years February. Almost all U.S. mortgages have either 30-year
or 15-year terms. When the average falls, it shows more people
are choosing the shorter period.  The average U.S.  rate  for a 30-year fixed mortgage has
tumbled since early 2011 to 3.71 percent this week, rising from
last week’s record-low 3.67 percent. Refinancing applications,
meanwhile, are at a three-year high.  Lackluster Recovery  DeKaser of Parthenon attributes the reduction in mortgage
debt to a “fear factor.” A lackluster recovery that still has
one of every 15 people unemployed has persuaded some borrowers
of the wisdom of thriftiness, he said.  “People are worried about falling  home prices  and they’re
worried about the economy,” said DeKaser. “If they can afford
it, they’re paying down their mortgages instead of buying things
because it makes them feel like they’ll sleep better at night.”  Home prices  tumbled for six straight months through March
to the lowest level in a decade, 35 percent below the peak
prices of the housing boom, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller
price index of 20 U.S. metropolitan areas. A 3.4 percent
increase in home sales last month may signal prices are
beginning to stabilize, according to Eric Belsky, managing
director of Harvard University’s Joint Center for Housing
Studies, in its “State of the Nation’s Housing” report issued
today.  Economic Growth  The  U.S. economy  probably will grow at a 2.2 percent pace
in 2012, the third year after the end of the recession,
according to the median forecast of 93 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. That compares with a 3.9 percent average expansion
rate in the third-year period following the 1982, 1994, and 2001
recessions. In 2013, the growth rate probably will be 2.4
percent, according to the economists’ average estimate.  Homeowners who are able to shorten the terms of their loans
or reduce their balances when they refinance are the lucky ones,
said  Chris Christopher , a senior economist at IHS Global Insight
in Lexington,  Massachusetts .  “Homeowners who are paying down mortgage debt are the
survivors,” said Christopher. “They probably didn’t lose their
jobs, so they’re in a better position to do that.”  About 23 percent of mortgage holders are underwater on
their loans, meaning they owe more than their homes are worth,
according to CoreLogic Inc., a mortgage data and software firm
in  Santa Ana ,  California . About 2.1 million  properties  were in
foreclosure in April, according to Lender Processing Services, a
mortgage data firm in Jacksonville,  Florida .  ‘Bubble Days’  “Consumers’ view of the housing market clearly has been
radically changed since the bubble days,” said  Dean Maki , chief
U.S. economist at Barclays Plc in  New York . “We saw what
happened to people who were way overleveraged.”  “Paying down mortgage debt is bad for economic growth --
putting your money into your house usually means you’re spending
less,” said FBR’s Miller. “It’s good for our economic health
in the long run, though, because it improves household balance
sheets.”  Retail sales  in the U.S. fell in May for a second month,
prompting economists to cut forecasts for economic growth as
limited job growth and income gains hold back consumers. The 0.2
percent decrease matched April’s drop that was previously
reported as a gain, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday
in  Washington .  National Income  Annual increases in national income slowed to $581 billion
in 2011 from $693 billion in the prior year, according to the
 Bureau of Economic Analysis . The first quarter’s $127.7 billion
gain puts 2012 on course for a $510.8 billion increase, the
lowest since income dropped in 2009.  “People are looking around them and seeing people they
know getting their salaries cut or losing their jobs,” said
Miller, a former examiner with the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia . “If you want security, you can put your money in
a savings bank for half a percentage point, or you can pay down
your mortgage.”  FBR’s Miller said when he refinanced his home loan last
year, he “brought a big check to the table” to reduce his
mortgage balance. The reason?  “So my wife would leave me alone,” said Miller. “Just
like a lot of people, she wants to have no mortgage debt.”  To contact the reporter on this column:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  