-- AMR CEO Said to Ask Bondholders to Study Stand-Alone Plan
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-06-15T20:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/amr-ceo-said-to-ask-bondholders-to-study-stand-alone-plan.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  Chief Executive Officer
 Tom Horton  asked an ad hoc bondholder group to study his plan
for a stand-alone  American Airlines  before reviewing a possible
merger for the bankrupt carrier, two people familiar with the
matter said.  The group, which holds about $700 million in AMR debt,
supports that sequence for its review, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the meeting was private.
Horton expressed frustration with attention being given to a
pending  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  merger bid, the people said.  The process discussed at the June 13 session in New York is
the one being followed in AMR’s bankruptcy, with the company
agreeing to consider options after detailing its own strategy to
stay independent. The ad hoc group organized outside of  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  and isn’t obliged to follow the same steps.  Horton’s meeting was his first with the bondholders, who
formed two such groups in an effort to gain leverage and reap
the largest return. Chief Restructuring Officer Beverly Goulet
told bondholders about two weeks ago that AMR will win more
union concessions than US Airways, and that it should be allowed
to negotiate a merger after leaving Chapter 11, the people said.  As part of his presentation, Horton cited evidence that he
said showed  Fort Worth , Texas-based American’s stand-alone plan
is working, including an industry-leading improvement in a
benchmark revenue measure last month, according to the people.  US Airways  Shares of  US Airways  led declines in the Bloomberg U.S.
Airlines Index today after Horton’s comments were reported. The
Tempe, Arizona-based company dropped 3.6 percent to $12.03 at
the close in New York. AMR fell 1.1 percent to 46 cents.  US Airways CEO Doug Parker told shareholders at the
carrier’s annual meeting yesterday in New York that the Tempe,
Arizona-based airline was making “great progress” toward a
merger. Restructuring in bankruptcy won’t be enough to fix
American’s weaknesses, he said.  “We are completely confident in the strength of our plan
for success,” American said in a statement in response.  The bondholder group holding $700 million of debt includes
hedge fund Appaloosa Management LP, and has hired law firm  White
& Case  LLP and financial adviser Houlihan Lokey, people familiar
with the matter have said. An e-mailed request for comment to
White & Case wasn’t returned yesterday.  Labor Contracts  The other includes Oppenheimer Funds Inc., the largest
holder of AMR’s municipal debt, and has retained law firm Kramer
Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP and financial adviser Seabury Group
LLC, the people said.  The bondholder groups won’t meet with US Airways until
after a judge decides whether American can reject existing union
contracts and negotiate new terms that will help cut annual
labor costs by $1.25 billion, people familiar with their
strategy have said. AMR filed for bankruptcy on Nov. 29.  US Airways has told bondholders it would provide greater
returns from its labor accords with American’s unions,
flexibility with plane leases, and a projected $1.2 billion in
annual savings and new revenue in a merger.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Alnwick at   jalnwick@bloomberg.net  