-- Manchester United Said to Plan $500 Million IPO in U.S.
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-06-14T15:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/manchester-united-said-to-plan-filing-for-500-million-u-s-ipo.html
Manchester United  Ltd., the record
19-time English soccer champion, may file for an initial public
offering in the U.S. to raise about $500 million, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The club, which previously planned to raise about $1
billion in Singapore, is switching venues and could hold the IPO
after the summer, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the plans are private. The IPO filing could happen
within days, one of the people said.  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  has been added as a manager for the
IPO, alongside  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
while Morgan Stanley will no longer advise on the transaction,
the people said.  Singapore ’s benchmark stock index, the Straits Times Index,
has fallen about 13 percent since August, when United was
contemplating an IPO in the city state. The Glazer family bought
the team in 2005 for 790 million pounds ($1.2 billion) and it
has 659 million fans, making it the world’s most popular, United
said last month, citing a study by market research company
Kantar.  While a U.S. listing would give Manchester United access to
investors worldwide, the club could fetch a higher valuation by
choosing an exchange closer to its fan base, said Matt McCormick
of Bahl & Gaynor Inc.  “Even though Manchester United is a global brand, of all
the marketplaces, the U.S. is probably the one where it’s the
least well-known,” said McCormick, who helps oversee $6.2
billion at the firm in Cincinnati. “If they’re hot in  Europe  or
in Asia, then it would give me pause that they aren’t going to
their strengths.”  Singapore Approval  Spokespeople at Manchester United, Credit Suisse and
JPMorgan declined to comment. Jefferies couldn’t be immediately
reached for comment. Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , declined to comment.  United received the Singapore stock exchange’s approval in
September to raise $1 billion in an IPO, but the process was
stalled as volatile stock markets roiled equity sales, people
with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Formula One Chief Executive Officer  Bernie Ecclestone  said
May 31 that the auto racing series’ planned IPO may not take
place until later this year because of time pressures and a
volatile equity market. Ecclestone said he’s busy handling
business, such as talks with the promoters for a proposed 2013
race in New Jersey, and can’t devote the necessary time to the
IPO.  Formula One’s shareholders led by CVC Capital Partners Ltd.
plan to raise as much as $3 billion by selling stakes in the
business in Singapore and have contacted so-called cornerstone
investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  