-- AOL Wards Off Starboard Challenge, Maintains Full Board
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-06-14T20:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/aol-wards-off-starboard-challenge-maintains-full-board.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  persuaded shareholders to reject an activist
investor’s bid to shake up the board, overcoming one of his
toughest challenges since taking charge of the  Internet company .  AOL’s slate -- Armstrong, Richard Dalzell, Karen Dykstra,
Alberto Ibarguen, Susan Lyne, Patricia Mitchell, Fredric Reynolds and James Stengel -- won the preliminary tally of votes
at the company’s shareholder meeting. Starboard Value LP, an
investment firm owning 5.3 percent of outstanding shares, had
fought to install three directors, saying AOL was spending too
much money on failed efforts such as the Patch news sites.  “The shareholder vote was a very clear indication the
value of the company will be larger in the future than it is
today,” Armstrong said after the meeting, held today in  Boston .  Armstrong’s case was bolstered by a rising  stock price  this
year, and the vote may give him more leeway as he tries to
transform the once-dominant Web-service provider into a digital
media company driven by advertising. Still, the shares tumbled
as much as 7.9 percent today, dragged down by concern that
Starboard will now dump its stake in the company. The firm, run
by Jeffrey C. Smith, is AOL’s fifth-largest shareholder.  “Event-driven traders are exiting ahead of Starboard’s
likely exit,” said  David Joyce , a New York-based analyst with
Miller Tabak & Co. He has a buy recommendation on the shares.  Stock Decline  AOL shares , up 69 percent this year, fell 5.7 percent to
$25.37 at the close today in  New York . That marked the biggest
one-day decline in more than two months.  Armstrong has made bets on Internet content, including the
purchase of the Huffington Post news-and-opinion site for $315
million last year, and he’s spending as much as $300 million
investing in Patch -- a “hyper-local” news service that
Armstrong co-founded and sold to AOL.  “The company is re-energized and refocused, and we have
one of the best brands in the Internet space,” Armstrong told
shareholders at the meeting. “We are going to grow the brand
back to where it should be.”  Armstrong invited Starboard’s Smith to address the crowd of
fewer than 50  shareholders  at the meeting, held at  Boston
University .  ‘Terrific Company’  “I believe all shareholders in this room, including
ourselves, management and the board, are all in agreement AOL is
undervalued,” Smith said. “AOL is a terrific company with
wonderful assets and brands -- the business should be more
profitable, and the company should be more highly valued.”  Smith had  criticized  Armstrong’s content strategy over the
past few months, saying his investments have cost the company
profits. Starboard says that Patch, a network of about 860
community-news sites, lost as much as $147 million last year.  “We do not believe Patch is a viable business,” Starboard
said in a report before the meeting.  The firm also estimates that AOL’s display-advertising
business is losing as much as $500 million annually. The
company’s  ad revenue  increased 5 percent in the most recent
quarter to $330.1 million, while its U.S. display advertising
 fell  1 percent to $118.9 million -- the first decline in the
past five quarters.  At the meeting, Armstrong cited a patent sale to  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  for $1.06 billion as evidence the directors are “making
smart decisions.” While Smith claimed credit for inspiring that
decision, Armstrong said the company had already been looking
into selling patents last year. The company said the sale,
announced in April, will be completed soon.  Advisory Firms  Earlier this month, proxy-advisory firm Glass Lewis & Co.
recommended shareholders vote to elect Smith as director, while
Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. endorsed both Smith and
Dennis Miller, a second Starboard nominee who is an adviser to
film company Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.  The third Starboard nominee was  James Warner , the principal
of advisory firm Third Floor Enterprises, a company specializing
in digital marketing and media.  “I don’t have a tin ear as to what happens outside this
company,” Armstrong told investors after the results were
announced. “I’m really hoping we’ll be able to get back to
work, and as much as we’ve returned  shareholder value  in the
last year, it’s a fraction of what’s possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  