-- Apache Sees Potential 3 Billion Barrels of Oil in Acreage
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-06-14T20:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/apache-sees-potential-3-billion-barrels-of-oil-in-acreage.html
Apache Corp. (APA) , the second-largest
U.S. independent oil and natural-gas producer by market value,
has acquired 880,000 net acres in Kansas, Nebraska and Montana
that hold an estimated 3 billion barrels of crude.  The company also had “one of the best shale wells we’ve
seen” at British Columbia’s Liard Basin, which it estimates
holds 48 trillion cubic feet of gas, Houston-based Apache said
in a statement today. The 3 billion barrels of oil are in
acreage the company has acquired in the Mississippian Lime and
Williston Basin.  Apache is looking to the onshore U.S. and Gulf of Mexico to
help boost output at least 34 percent in coming years. The
company, which produced a daily average of  748,000 barrels of
oil equivalent  last year, plans to reach more than 1 million
barrels a day by 2016. Apache’s U.S. onshore output will rise to
41 percent of production in 2016 from 21 percent in 2011.
Egypt’s share will fall to 15 percent from 22 percent.  “Increasing its focus on  North America , especially onshore
oil, is a strong positive as it would improve the risk profile
by reducing its reliance on Egypt,” Brian Youngberg, an analyst
at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis , said in an e-mail today. He has a
buy rating on Apache shares and owns none.  The company said 58 percent of its production will be
petroleum liquids in 2016, compared with 50 percent last year.  Apache  rose  3.7 percent to $86.01 at the close in  New York .
The shares have dropped 5.1 percent this year.  Vast Base  “This is the time to drill more wells: We have captured a
vast, liquids-rich resource base and drilling costs are
declining,” G. Steven Farris, Apache’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said in the statement. The company plans to
preserve its “conservative financial structure -- which means
living within our  cash flow ,” he said.  In the Liard Basin, Apache holds 430,000 acres in what it
called “an outstanding new shale play.” The project may need a
wellhead price of about $2.57 per thousand cubic feet of gas to
meet commercial requirements, Apache said in a presentation
slide.  Elsewhere, Apache sees a combined 9.2 billion barrels of
oil equivalent of possible net resources in the Permian Basin of
 Texas  and  New Mexico  and the Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma and
Texas.  Its holdings in Argentina’s Vaca Muerta formation have the
potential for about 800 million barrels of oil equivalent, and
some development is possible in 2013. The company said it has
identified another 2.7 billion barrels of potential oil in
Alaska and Kenya, where it expects to begin drilling this year.  Dividend Review  Apache said output from the proposed Kitimat liquefied
natural gas project in  Canada  is possible in 2017, though a
final  investment decision  is pending.  The company doesn’t need to make large acquisitions as it
seeks to develop its portfolio over several years, Farris told
analysts and investors at a meeting in Houston today. Buying
back shares isn’t a priority over drilling in important areas,
he said. Apache will review its dividend annually, he said.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  is the largest U.S. independent oil and gas
producer by market value. Independent companies produce crude
and gas and don’t own refineries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  