-- Apple IPad Demand Boosts Tablet Shipment Forecast, IDC Reports
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-06-14T17:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/apple-ipad-demand-boosts-tablet-shipment-forecast-idc-reports.html
The global market for tablet
computers is growing faster than expected, with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPad widening its lead as consumers’ top choice, according to
market researcher  International Data Corp. (IDC)   Worldwide shipments of tablets this year will be 107.4
million units, up from an earlier projection of 106.1 million,
Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC said today in a statement.
Worldwide shipments should reach 142.8 million next year and
222.1 million by 2016, the group said.  Even as companies including Amazon.com Inc. and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  release new tablets running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android operating system, Apple’s iPad continues to dominate the
market. IDC predicts the iPad will account for 62.5 percent of
global shipments this year, up from 58.2 percent last year.
Apple’s share could rise even further if it introduces a
smaller, less expensive tablet.  “Apple’s iPad shows few signs of slowing down,” Tom Mainelli, IDC’s research director of mobile connected devices,
said in the statement. “If Apple launches a sub-$300, 7-inch
product into the market later this year as rumored, we expect
the company’s grip on this market to become even stronger.”  Shipments of tablets using Android will slip to 36.5
percent, from 38.7 percent last year, according to IDC.  The report highlights how consumers are increasingly
turning to tablets for basic computing needs such as browsing
the Internet, checking e-mail and watching video, a trend that
has affected the sales of traditional PC makers such as  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  Last week, Boston-based research firm
Yankee Group predicted tablet sales in the U.S. will eclipse
those of personal computers by 2015.  Later this year,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is releasing a new version
of its Windows operating system that will work on tablet
computers. IDC said the “huge marketing blitz” for tablets
running that software will boost overall shipments, though
it didn’t include potential sales of Windows-based devices in
the forecast released today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  