-- Asian Stocks Decline on Spain Downgrade, Growth Concern
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-06-14T11:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/asian-stocks-drop-on-spain-downgrade-global-growth-concern.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
index heading for its third drop in five days, as Spain’s credit
rating was cut and data from the U.S and Europe added to concern
the global economy is slowing.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd., which operates ports in  Germany  and
Spain, slid 1.4 percent in  Hong Kong . Esprit Holdings Ltd. sank
12 percent as the clothier’s chief executive officer and
chairman quit within 24 hours of each other.  James Hardie
Industries SE (JHX) , a building-materials supplier that counts the
U.S. as its biggest market, lost 2.1 percent in Sydney as retail
sales in the world’s largest economy dropped.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  declined 0.5 percent to 112.93
as of 8:44 p.m. in  Tokyo , with almost two shares falling for
each that rose. The gauge dropped 12 percent from this year’s
peak on Feb. 29 through yesterday amid concern growth in the
U.S. and China is slowing and as Europe’s debt crisis
intensified.  “The Spanish bank bailout on the weekend didn’t help
matters and probably increased the focus on  Italy , and also made
investors worry about investing in Spanish bonds,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management.
“Europe is sliding further into a recession and the global
economy is still slowing in the U.S., and so I think this is a
soft patch.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  lost 0.2 percent.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 0.5 percent. Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index slid 1.2 percent, while China’s Shanghai
Composite Index declined 1 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index
advanced 0.7 percent.  European Production  Trading volumes across the region were below the 30-day
average ahead of Greece’s election this weekend, data compiled
by Bloomberg showed. Euro-area industrial production declined
for a second month in April, led by a drop in Germany, a report
showed yesterday.  Companies that do business in Europe declined after Moody’s
Investors Service cut Spain’s credit rating three steps to Baa3
from A3. Spain is on review for a further downgrade because of
its increased debt burden, weakening economy and limited access
to  capital markets , Moody’s said.  Hutchison Whampoa lost 1.4 percent to HK$63.35 in Hong
Kong.  Nippon Sheet Glass Co. (5202) , which counts Europe as its biggest
market, slipped 1.3 percent to 78 yen in Tokyo.  Esprit plunged 12 percent to HK$9.23, extending losses
after Hans-Joachim Koerber stepped down as chairman yesterday,
within 24 hours after the resignation of CEO Ronald Van der Vis,
leaving a gap in senior management as the clothier struggles to
recover from a three-year profit decline.  “The moves could lead to questions regarding whether there
are issues with the operation/accounts or there is a power
struggle among the management team and the board,” Anne Ling,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a note to clients.  U.S. Retail  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The gauge fell 0.7 percent yesterday in New York
as retail sales in the U.S. dropped in May for a second month,
prompting analysts to cut forecasts for economic growth.  Exporters dropped.  James Hardie  fell 2.1 percent to A$7.57
in Sydney. Li & Fung Ltd., a supplier of toys and clothes to
retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., slid 2.8 percent to
HK$14.82 in Hong Kong.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest
carmaker by market value, declined 1.2 percent to 3,015 yen.  The Asian benchmark index lost 0.4 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 4.6 percent advance by the
 S&P 500  and a 0.8 percent drop on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Shares on the Asian benchmark are  valued  at 1.2 times book
value, compared with 2.1 times for the S&P 500 and 1.3 times for
the Stoxx 600, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A number
below one means companies can be bought for less than value of
their assets.  Tsugami Drops  Tsugami Corp. declined 5.9 percent to 515 yen in Tokyo on
concern orders for the company’s machine tools are slowing since
peaking in March. “The company expects orders will likely fall
in the second half of this year,” Miwako Miki, a Tsugami
spokeswoman, said by telephone. “Demand will likely drop from a
decline in customers’ willingness for  capital investment .”  Noble Group Ltd. dropped 1.7 percent to S$1.13 in  Singapore 
after Ricardo Leiman, who quit as chief executive officer in
November, sued a unit of the  Asia ’s biggest commodity supplier,
claiming his shares and 2011 bonus were wrongfully withheld.
Noble was “unhappy” with Leiman’s performance and decided to
terminate him, Jeffrey Alam, group general counsel for the Hong
Kong-based company, said in papers in response to the lawsuit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  