-- U.S. Stocks Gain as Dollar Falls on Central Bank Optimism
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-06-14T21:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/asian-stocks-drop-on-spain-crude-at-eight-month-low.html
U.S. stocks surged, sending
benchmark indexes to the highest levels of the month, while the
dollar slid amid reports central banks may take steps to help
economies battered by Europe’s debt crisis. Treasuries retreated
while commodities gained.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 1.1 percent at 4 p.m.
in New York while the dollar weakened against all 16 major
peers, with the euro increasing 0.6 percent to $1.2633. Ten-year
Treasury yields climbed four basis points to 1.64 percent, while
the rate on Spain’s 10-year bond rose to a euro-era record after
Moody’s Investors Service cut its rating. The S&P GSCI
commodities index rose 0.9 percent as natural gas surged 14
percent on a smaller-than-forecast gain in U.S. supplies.  Speculation grew that the  Federal Reserve  will discuss
stimulus efforts as reports showed jobless claims unexpectedly
climbed and the cost of living fell by the most in more than
three years. Stocks  extended gains  amid reports central banks
may boost liquidity as financial markets brace for potential
turmoil following Greek elections this weekend. Greece’s
benchmark stock index surged 10 percent on bets the party that
backs terms of the nation’s bailout will win elections.  “Economic deceleration puts the Federal Reserve in the
driver’s seat,” Chad Morganlander, a  Florham Park , New Jersey-
based  money manager  at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees
about $115 billion of assets, said in a telephone interview.
“There’s an improvement within the euro. There’s a modest
amount of optimism that the Greek vote will bode well for the
markets.”  Market Whipsawed  U.S. stocks briefly pared gains after Egan-Jones Ratings
Co. reduced  France ’s government debt, a day after the firm
preceded Moody’s in cutting Spain, fueling concern about
contagion from the debt crisis.  The rally resumed amid reports of plans by central banks.
Bloomberg News reported that U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  and  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King are
preparing two programs to increase the flow of credit. Reuters
said that central banks of major economies are prepared to take
action if needed to boost liquidity in financial markets if the
Greek elections cause tumultuous trading, citing officials
linked to the Group of 20 nations.  “A coordinated central bank action would be a net positive
for  market sentiment ,”  Michael James , a managing director of
equity trading at Wedbush Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles , said
in an e-mail. “Hence the knee-jerk pop.”  Dow Leaders  Travelers Cos., Home Depot Inc. and Bank of America Corp.
rallied more than 2 percent to lead gains in 28 of 30 stocks in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) , which surged 155.53 points to
12,651.91 for its highest close since May 14. All 10 of the main
industry groups in the  S&P 500 (SPX)  advanced, with telephone, energy
and consumer-discretionary stocks rising more than 1.3 percent
to lead gains.  Kroger Co. rallied 6.1 percent after the largest U.S.
grocery-store chain boosted its annual profit forecast and
announced a $1 billion share buyback. International Game
Technology, a maker of casino machines, jumped 14 percent for
the biggest gain in the  S&P 500  after authorizing a share-
repurchase plan of as much as $1 billion.  The S&P 500 fell yesterday following a decrease in U.S.
retail sales and higher borrowing costs at auctions in Italy and
Germany. The index tumbled as much as 9.9 percent from a four-
year high in April through June 1 amid lower-than-forecast
economic data and concern Europe’s debt crisis was spreading.
The index has rebounded 4 percent since then after the retreat
dragged its valuation to 12.9 times  reported earnings , the
cheapest since November.  Commodities Advance  Sixteen of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI index
advanced. Oil for July delivery gained 1.6 percent to settle at
$83.91 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the biggest
percentage increase since April 11. Futures extended their
advance in after-hours electronic trading, climbing as much as
2.2 percent.  Natural gas futures jumped 14 percent, the most since
September 2009, to $2.495 per million British thermal units. The
Energy Department said stockpiles rose 67 billion cubic feet to
2.944 trillion. Analysts projected a gain of 75 billion,
according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The
five-year average increase for the week is 88 billion cubic
feet.  Treasuries remained lower after the U.S. sold $13 billion
of 30-year bonds at a record low yield. The bonds yielded 2.720
percent, compared with a forecast of 2.725 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of eight of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers.
The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total
bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.40, versus an
average of 2.66 at the past 10 sales. Rates on existing 30-year
bonds increased three basis points to 2.74 percent.  Italian Yields  Italian 10-year  yields  lost nine basis points to 6.13
percent, halting a six-day increase. Italy sold 4.5 billion
euros ($5.6 billion) of debt, with the yield on its benchmark
three-year bond rising to 5.3 percent from 3.91 percent at the
last auction on May 14.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped 0.3 percent, recovering
most of an early  1.2 percent slide . Credit Suisse slumped 10
percent to its lowest price since 1992. British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc and BT Group Plc tumbled more than 3 percent after
winning the rights to show live English Premier League soccer
matches by paying an extra 70 percent. Nokia Oyj plunged 18
percent after reducing its outlook for the second quarter.  Greek Rally  The rally in Greek stocks pared the Athens Stock Exchange
Index’s decline this year to 19 percent. Greeks will vote for a
second time in six weeks after a May 6 ballot failed to result
in a government.  New Democracy , the largest pro-bailout party,
led Syriza, the group opposed to spending cuts, according to the
last poll on June 1. Under Greek law, there is a ban on
publication of opinion polls two weeks before an election.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  rejected quick solutions
proposed to fix Europe’s financial crisis such as joint debt
sharing, saying her nation can’t save the world economy alone
and other G-20 countries must help. She said the debt crisis and
Germany’s role in stemming contagion will be a “central topic”
at next week’s G-20 summit.  “Europe is sliding further into a recession and the global
and U.S. economies are still slowing down,” said  Shane Oliver ,
the Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management.
“It’s still time for caution on the short-term view.”  Spanish Yields  Spain ’s 10-year yield climbed as much as 24 basis points to
6.998 percent before paring gains and ending at 6.92 percent.  The nation’s two-year note yield surged seven basis points
to 4.98 percent and the cost of insuring against a Spanish
default using credit-default swaps climbed four basis points to
604, compared with an all-time high of 613.5 reached on June 1.
A report showed borrowings by the nation’s banks from the
 European Central Bank  rose to a record 287.8 billion euros in
May from 263.5 billion euros in April.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slipped 0.6 percent after
closing yesterday at its highest level since May 29. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index and the Philippine Stock Exchange
Index lost at least 1.5 percent. India’s Sensex Index fell 1.2
percent after inflation quickened more than economists
estimated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  