-- Astarta of Ukraine Seeks to Restructure Loan Portfolio, CEO Says
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-06-14T13:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/astarta-of-ukraine-seeks-to-restructure-loan-portfolio-ceo-says.html
Astarta Holding NV (AST) , a Ukrainian
agricultural company and sugar producer, seeks to restructure
its loan portfolio, the Chief Executive Officer Viktor Ivanchyk
said.  Astarta, which raised about $32 million at an initial
public offering in Warsaw in 2006, is now in talks with banks in
 Europe  and the U.S. on seven, eight, or even 10-year credit
resources as it seeks to boost grain, sugar and milk output and
cut natural gas consumption, Ivanchyk said.  The ability of Ukrainian companies to tap foreign markets
declined amid investor uncertainty as the financial crisis in
Europe is aggravated by elections in  Greece . The local banking
system was shaken by the global credit crunch of 2008 which
caused devaluation of the Ukrainian currency, the hryvnia, and
shortened liquidity available for crediting business.  “We are working on prolonging our loan portfolio and on
prospects to attract long-term financing,” Ivanchyk said in an
interview today in his office in Kiev. “We are constantly
working on leveling payment peaks and on having a balanced
credit portfolio, including funds to refinance certain  loans .”
Astarta is not planning to sell Eurobonds, he said.  The company, which has sugar, grain, milk and cattle farm
segments, plans to keep this year’s investments around 60
million euros ($75.49 million), almost the same level as last
year, Ivanchyk said.  Astarta shares fell 43.6 percent in the past 52 weeks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares opened at 58.8
zloty today in Warsaw almost unchanged from 58.7 zloty at close
yesterday.  Shares Drop  “Astarta’s share prices dropped to around 55 zloty
recently and given the company’s improved performance indicators
in 2011, it seems to lack logic,” Ivanchyk said. “This is
aggravated by the worsening situation in the world and in
 Ukraine  which everyone is talking about.”  Ukraine is struggling to secure cheaper energy imports from
traditional ally  Russia  and unlock international aid, at a time
when the economy is losing steam. Halfway into President  Viktor
Yanukovych ’s five-year term, credit markets signal a 44 percent
chance of a Ukrainian default, while Societe Generale SA
predicts the hryvnia will be devalued.  The Kiev, Ukraine-based company’s 2011 profit rose by 9.4
percent to 87.53 million euros from 80 million euros a year
earlier.  Foreign-currency  revenue  accounted for 31 percent of the
total in the first quarter, Ivanchyk said, adding that it will
be close to 20 percent by the end of the year. This compares
with 13 percent in 2011, when foreign-currency revenue exceeded
the need for external loan repayment three or four times, he
said.  Grain Exports  Grain export sales will increase “essentially” in the
second quarter this year after an 11-fold annual jump in the
first quarter, Ivanchyk said. Astarta exports corn, wheat and
soybeans in the grain segment. Grain prices are not going to
decline as demand remains “lively,” Ivanchyk said.  The decline in sugar prices in Ukraine “is temporary” and
they will rise at the end of the second quarter or early in the
third quarter. The company estimates refined sugar output will
rise this year to 400,000 metric tons from 376,000 tons last
year, according to Ivanchyk.  The company wants to cut natural gas consumption needed to
process 1 ton of  sugar beet  into refined sugar to 25 cubic
meters in three to five years compared with 30 cubic meters last
year, which helps it cut production costs, he said.  Milk output is estimated to increase this year to 80,000
tons from 70,000 tons last year, Ivanchyk said. Milk prices will
rise by the third quarter after a seasonal decline in June
through August, he said. Russia’s restrictions on Ukraine’s
cheese exports in February also cut prices, he added.  Increase Efficiency  Astarta increased corn plantings for the 2012 harvest, to
over 40,000 hectares (98,800 acres) compared with 33,000
hectares a year ago and soya plantings rose to 47,000 hectares
from 34,000 hectare last year, he said.  Astarta’s agricultural land in operation expanded from
90,000 hectares in 2006, the year it sold the IPO, to 245,000
last year, according to the company’s website.  The company now “places an emphasis on increasing the
efficiency of its existing assets, land and infrastructure,”
rather than expand harvestable fields, Ivanchyk said.  Ukrainian authorities have delayed the introduction of a
farm land market until 2013. The country’s legislature has been
debating the farm land sale law since last year.  The bill may limit the allowed use of farm land in each of
the country’s 490 rural districts to 6,000 hectares. This will
force large agricultural companies to divide their business and
worsen their efficiency, Ivanchyk said. Investors are “cautious
about business climate and administrative pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  