-- Cain Pitches 22nd Perfect Game in MLB as Giants Beat Astros
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-14T06:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/matt-cain-of-san-francisco-giants-throws-mlb-s-22nd-perfect-game.html
Matt Cain  pitched the 22nd perfect
game in Major League Baseball history as the  San Francisco
Giants  beat the Houston Astros 10-0.  Two-time All-Star Cain, 27, threw 125 pitches, the most in
a perfect game, and tied Sandy Koufax’s 1965 record for the most
strikeouts in a perfect game with 14. Cain embraced catcher
Buster Posey before being mobbed by teammates after pinch-hitter
Jason Castro grounded out to third for the final out of the game.  “I felt a good rhythm in the bullpen and when I got on
the mound in between the lines I felt like I knew what I was
doing with my fastball,” Cain said in a televised interview as
the crowd at AT&T Park in San Francisco gave him a standing
ovation. “Usually those are good days when that happens and it
obviously worked out right.”  It was the first perfect game and 14th no-hitter in the
129-year history of the franchise. The last Giant to throw a no-
hitter was  Jonathan Sanchez  on July 10, 2009.  Chicago White Sox right-hander Philip Humber threw the 21st
perfect game April 22, making 2012 the second year in three with
multiple perfect games in a season.  Roy Halladay  pitched a perfect game for the Philadelphia
Phillies against the  Florida Marlins  on May 29, 2010. Dallas Braden achieved the feat 20 days earlier in a 4-0 win for the
 Oakland Athletics  against the Tampa Bay Rays.  The previous time there were two perfect games in a year
was in 1880, when Lee Richmond and John Ward became the first
pitchers to achieve the feat.  There have been nine perfect games in the  American League 
and 13 in the National League.  Two Scares  Cain’s effort nearly came undone twice, in the sixth and
seventh innings.  Left fielder Melky Cabrera ran and made a leaping catch at
the wall in the sixth to gather in Chris Snyder’s one-out
flyball.  In the next inning, Gregor Blanco sprinted to make a low
diving catch on the warning track to deny Jordan Schafer for the
first out of the seventh. Cain tipped his hat to Blanco after
the catch and embraced him in the dugout at the end of the
inning.  “When Blanco made that catch in center field, I literally
felt everybody on the mound with me,” Cain said. “The whole
stadium was electric right there. It was unbelievable, so I had
to find myself a way to calm down.”  Close Calls  Cain twice came close to a no-hitter this season. In the
Giants’ home opener on April 13, he gave up one hit in a 5-0 win
against the Pittsburgh Pirates. In his next start, he allowed
two hits in nine innings in a 1-0 win over the  Philadelphia
Phillies  in 11 innings.  Cain also threw one-hitters in 2006 against the Oakland
Athletics and in 2010 against the  Arizona  Diamondbacks.  Cain in April signed a contract extension worth $112.5
million over five years, the San Francisco Chronicle reported at
the time, which would make it the biggest long-term contract for
a right-hander. The accord has an option for a sixth year.  It was the fifth time the Astros gave up a no-hitter and
first time since Carlos Zambrano did it for the  Chicago Cubs  on
Sept. 14, 2008. The Astros have now surrendered two no-hitters
to the Giants -- Juan Marichal did it on June 15, 1963.  Cabrera hit a two-run homer in the first inning and Brandon Belt did the same in the second before Joaquin Arias scored on a
groundout by Blanco to give the Giants (36-27) a 5-0 lead.  Cabrera scored on Pablo Sandoval’s single and  Buster Posey 
crossed home plate on Belt’s single in the third. Ryan Theriot
scored as Sandoval grounded into a fielder’s choice to first in
the fourth and Blanco ended the scoring in the fifth with a two-
run homer.  Fifth No-Hitter  There have been five no-hitters this season. Kevin Millwood
and five Seattle Mariner relievers combined to no-hit the  Los
Angeles Dodgers  on June 8. Johan Santana of the  New York  Mets
achieved the feat June 1 and Jered Weaver of the  Los Angeles
Angels  threw a no-hitter May 2.  Texas Rangers President and Hall of Famer Nolan Ryan holds
the major league record with seven no-hitters.  The  San Diego Padres  are the only major league team without
a no-hitter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 