-- Aussie, Kiwi Set for Weekly Gains Ahead of Fed, G-20
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-06-15T05:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/aussie-kiwi-advance-on-speculation-central-banks-to-act.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars were poised for weekly gains amid speculation global
policy makers will act to counter slower growth and Europe’s
debt crisis, spurring risk appetite.  Australia’s currency traded above parity with its U.S.
counterpart before data that may show the world’s largest
economy is struggling to expand, adding to the case for further
monetary stimulus from the  Federal Reserve . New Zealand’s
dollar, known as the kiwi, touched a one-month high before a
Group of 20 nations summit in Los Cabos,  Mexico  on June 18-19,
where leaders will discuss Europe’s fiscal woes.  “Any talk of coordination of central bank action is music
to the ears for risk appetite,” said  Michael Turner , a Sydney-
based strategist at  RBC Capital Markets . “It’s still pretty
precarious really, but it’s certainly enough to see the Aussie
and the kiwi rally a little bit.”  The Australian dollar bought $1.0019 as of 3:38 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0024 in New York yesterday, when it touched
$1.0033, the highest since May 14. The so-called Aussie has
gained 1.1 percent this week. New Zealand’s currency reached
78.39 U.S. cents, the highest since May 14, before trading at
78.34, set for a 1.7 percent weekly advance.  The Aussie dropped 0.6 percent to 79.03 yen, while the kiwi
declined 0.5 percent to 61.78 yen.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks added 0.6 percent
today, extending gains this week to 1.9 percent.  Central Banks  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  unveiled measures to
fight an escalation of  Europe ’s debt crisis as global policy
makers prepare for the impact of Greek elections in two days.
Reuters cited officials linked to the G-20 in a report saying
that central banks of major economies are prepared to take
action to boost liquidity in financial markets if the Greek
elections cause tumultuous trading.  The election may determine whether Greece upholds austerity
conditions attached to international aid, tries to renegotiate
the terms, or abandons the pledge and risks what would be the
first departure from the euro bloc.  The  International Monetary Fund  said yesterday it is in
talks about what its monitoring role will entail under the
European-funded rescue package to shore up Spain’s banks. The
Iberian nation last week became the fourth euro member to seek
aid since the start of the debt crisis more than two years ago.  “I think it’s a pretty unconvincing risk-on move really,”
said  Mike Jones , a Wellington-based currency strategist at Bank
of New Zealand. Gains in the Australian and New Zealand dollars
along with Europe’s currency in the past few sessions have
resulted from “short covering on the euro,” he said. Short
covering is when investors end bets an asset will decline.  U.S. Data  In the U.S., a gauge of manufacturing in the  New York 
region is estimated to have fallen to 13 in June from 17.09 in
May, a Bloomberg News survey of economists showed before the
data are released today. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of consumer  sentiment  probably slid
to 77.5 this month from 79.3 in May, a separate poll showed.  Further stimulus measures from the Fed are “looking more
likely” according to RBC’s Turner.  Australia Excepted  “In a world of expanding central-bank balance sheets,
Australia’s not one of them, and the currency tends to benefit
as a result of that, and the kiwi to a lesser degree,” he said.  The U.S. central bank has already engaged in two rounds of
asset purchases, as well as a program to lengthen the average
maturity of its bond holdings in a bid to keep down borrowing
costs. The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  is
scheduled to meet June 19-20.  Australian  government bonds  fell, with the yield on
benchmark 10-year debt rising six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 2.99 percent. New Zealand’s two-year swap
rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating rates, climbed
five basis points to 2.63 percent.  The South Pacific nations’ currencies weakened against the
yen after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  held off from expanding monetary
stimulus. The central bank kept its asset-purchase fund at 40
trillion yen ($505 billion) and a credit lending program at 30
trillion yen.  “The Aussie is following the U.S. dollar’s decline against
the yen after the BOJ decision,” said Takuya Kawabata, a
researcher at Gaitame.com in  Tokyo . “We saw the yen strengthen
after the BOJ left policy unchanged because there was a small
group of people expecting some additional stimulus. If the
Aussie breaks below 78.70 yen today, it could face further
downward pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net 
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  