-- Austria Should Consider Remodeling Bad Banks: Liebscher
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-06-14T13:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/austria-should-consider-remodeling-bad-banks-liebscher.html
Austria  should consider warehousing
risky and non-performing assets of its nationalized lenders in a
vehicle that isn’t governed by banking laws, according to Klaus Liebscher, the manager in charge of the nation’s bank aid.  Putting toxic assets of rescued banks into a state-backed
body without a banking license may have advantages for Austrian
taxpayers, Liebscher said in an interview last week. Such a
model would mimic  Germany ’s FMS Wertmanagement, the agency that
is winding down 176 billion euros ($221 billion) of assets from
nationalized Hypo Real Estate Holding AG.  “To work out a model like the German one, without a
banking license, is a debate that could be worthwhile in my
view,” said Liebscher, who heads the Finanzmarktbeteiligung AG
agency. “It’s possible that you create options for the wind-
down bank which in the end will benefit taxpayers. I wouldn’t
rule out that the advantages predominate.”  Austria nationalized two banks in 2008 and 2009 and
partially took over another one this year to prevent their
collapse. The nation had to inject fresh capital into all three
lenders to make sure they meet regulatory requirements after
losses on bad debt and on swaps depleted reserves. All major
ratings companies have warned the government that its banks are
the biggest risk to the Alpine republic’s credit rating.  Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG, which Austria
rescued after former owner  Bayerische Landesbank  walked away in
2009, may need about 1.5 billion euros in state aid by October
to meet regulators’ capital requirements. That’s after taxpayers
already injected 1.35 billion euros.  Greek Swap  The government has also paid a net 1.9 billion euros into
KA Finanz AG, the “bad bank” of nationalized Kommunalkredit
Austria AG, in order to keep its capital ratio at 7 percent as
promised. More than half of it was needed after losses caused by
 Greece ’s debt swap. On top of that came a 250 million-euro
capital support for  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  this year,
which followed a first tranche of 1 billion euros in 2009 and
resulted in Austria holding 43 percent of the bank.  Germany’s FMS operates as a government agency without a
banking license and is therefore exempt from capital rules for
banks. This also means that it can’t borrow from the  European
Central Bank  and is refinancing in the market with the help of a
blanket state guarantee for its bond issues.  The key difference between the two approaches is what they
mean for a country’s budget. FMS’s liabilities are counted as
government debt under European Union rules, while the Austrian
bad banks’ debt is not. On the other hand, capital injections
for the Austrian bad banks increase the  budget deficit , while
FMS’s losses are budget-neutral.  72 Percent  Austria’s debt stood at 217.4 billion euros at the end of
last year, or 72 percent of gross domestic product, according to
the statistics office. While that’s above the EU’s debt ceiling
of 60 percent, it is beaten only by the Netherlands,  Finland  and
 Spain  among major euro-area nations. The aid for KA Finanz
because of its Greek losses will add to this year’s deficit,
which the government plans to keep below 3 percent nevertheless,
after 2.6 percent last year.  KA Finanz had total assets of 14.9 billion euros as well as
contingent liabilities of 10.5 billion euros at the end of 2011,
according to its annual report. Hypo Alpe’s “wind-down” unit
has 10 billion euros of assets.  Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter has in the past
rejected proposals for such a model. She told journalists
earlier this week that such plans would have to be approved by
the EU, and that Austria wasn’t seeking such approvals
currently.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  