-- Aviva Investors Says Betting Against Euro Before Greek Election
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-06-14T15:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/aviva-investors-says-betting-against-euro-before-greek-election.html
Aviva Investors , which manages the
equivalent of $420 billion, says it is preparing for this
weekend’s Greek elections by betting the euro will weaken and
European stocks will decline.  The asset management business of London-based Aviva Plc has
also taken a position that will benefit if the volatility of the
euro against the dollar increases, according to a report from
senior economists Shamik Dhar and Stewart Robertson. There is no
certainty  Greece  will exit the euro, though there is likely to
be market turbulence under all possible scenarios, they wrote.  “The Greek election in mid-June may prove to be a defining
moment for Europe,” Dhar and Robertson said in a report. “At
one extreme, we could see the break-up of the euro area. At the
other, we may be heading toward a much closer fiscal and
political union.”  In the short term, the economists say they are recommending
a short position on European equities, the German  DAX Index (DAX) , the
euro and being long euro-dollar volatility. A short position is
a bet an asset will decline, while a long one is a bet it will
increase.  In the medium term, defined as being between three and five
years, Dhar and Robertson say they are “modestly risk on” and
are recommending bets including that  Japanese shares  will rise.  As part of asset protection strategies, they economists say
they recommend being short French  government bonds  and hedging
euro assets into the U.K. pound.  Greece will hold a general election on June 17 after
politicians failed to agree on a government after an
inconclusive vote held on May 6.  The euro has declined 3.7 percent versus the dollar since
then to trade at $1.2594 at 4:19 p.m.  London  time. The  Stoxx
Europe 600 (SXXP)  Index of shares slid 4.5 percent in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 