-- Baidu to Share Revenue With Apple on China IPhone Deal
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-06-14T23:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/baidu-to-share-revenue-with-apple-on-china-iphone-search.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  said  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  will be
entitled to a share of advertising sales after the Chinese
company’s search engine was added as part of a software upgrade
for iPhones in  China .  The revenue-sharing agreement with Apple follows similar
accords between Baidu and manufacturers of handsets that use
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, Wang Jing, vice
president at Beijing-based Baidu, said in a phone interview
yesterday. He declined to disclose the commercial terms.  Apple said this week it will offer Baidu’s search engine as
an option for iPhone and iPad customers and add Chinese-language
support for its Siri voice technology, as the world’s most
valuable company tailors its products for Chinese consumers.
Baidu, which fields about 80 percent of China’s Web searches, is
prepared to incur costs to add smartphone users by offering
services such as music streaming for free, Wang said.  “Previously they were sharing revenue with websites to
bring in search-engine traffic, and now they are sharing it with
smartphone manufacturers,” said Eric Wen, who rates Baidu buy
at Mirae Asset Securities in  Hong Kong . He estimates Baidu
distributes less than 10 percent of  revenue  generated from
smartphones to device makers.  Baidu rose 0.8 percent to $117.64 at the close in New York.
The stock has gained 1 percent this year, underperforming the 44
percent gain in the Hong Kong-traded shares of  Tencent Holdings
Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest Internet company.  Carolyn Wu, a spokeswoman at Apple in Beijing, didn’t
immediately return messages to her office and mobile phones
seeking comment.  Focus on Smartphones  Baidu and Tencent both need to invest in their mobile
Internet operations as more people in China access services on
smartphones instead of computers, according to Mirae’s Wen.  Baidu is sharing advertising revenue with hardware partners
to encourage them to install its search engine on their products
before shipping. About 80 percent of branded phones based on the
Android technology have Baidu preloaded, billionaire Chief
Executive Officer Robin Li said in April.  Users of the new iOS 6 operating system that runs iPhones
and iPads will have increased access to Chinese Internet
services including Baidu,  Sina Corp. (SINA) ’s Weibo microblog, and
online videos from  Youku Inc., (YOKU)  Apple said this week. The
Cupertino, California-based company tripled its revenue in China
last quarter, making the Asian country its biggest market
outside the U.S.  Baidu introduced its “Cloud ROM” software for download by
users of Android devices this month, giving them access to
services including remote data storage and free music streaming.  “We are very willing to pay the costs, we are happy these
services are free,” Wang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  