-- Basel Seeks Deal on Rules for Nationally Systemic Banks
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-06-15T09:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/basel-seeks-deal-on-rules-for-nationally-systemic-banks.html
Global financial regulators, after
reaching a consensus last year on tougher capital rules to
govern banks that would roil the world economy if they
collapsed, will try to hammer out a deal next week on controls
for lenders with the potential to bring down national economies.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  plans to publish
draft rules for so-called systemic lenders that aren’t covered
by last year’s plans requiring global banks deemed too-big-to-
fail to hold additional capital of as much as 2.5 percent of
their risk-weighted assets, according to two people with
knowledge of the discussions.  To reach a deal, nations in the group will need to bridge
differences over whether the planned rules for these so-called
domestically systemic banks should also apply to subsidiaries of
the global lenders targeted last year, said one of the people,
who declined to be named because the talks are private. The
split centers on whether local regulators should be free to
impose stricter capital rules on these units than those the
parent bank must follow, one of the people said.  The euro area’s efforts to contain its debt crisis have
been frustrated by weakness on some banks’ balance sheets,
including those of smaller to mid-size lenders.  Spain  this month
sought aid to cover losses in its banking industry, with its
plea for funds coming after the  International Monetary Fund  said
the country’s lenders would need at least 37 billion euros
($46.8 billion) to withstand a weakening economy.  Nationally Systemic  The Financial Stability Board, which brings together
regulators, finance ministry officials and central bankers from
the Group of 20 nations, published a provisional list of 29
globally important banks that may face these surcharges,
including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  It also said that these globally important lenders
should be subject to tougher supervision.  Mark Carney , the FSB’s chairman, said earlier this year
that regulators were considering extending such too-big-to-fail
rules to cover lenders that are systemic at a national level.  “Some banks are systemic in their local market, but not
more generally, and home state authorities will want to reduce
the likelihood of failure,”  Patricia Jackson , head of
prudential advisory at Ernst & Young LLP in  London , said in an
e-mail. More national discretion is “appropriate given the
range of different roles the banks may have.”  Identify, Regulate  While regulators don’t intend to publish a list of these
nationally important banks, the plans will include guidance for
supervisors on identifying and regulating them. Regulators will
discuss the plans at a two-day meeting starting June 19 in
 Stockholm , the people said.  The Basel committee, which brings together banking
regulators from 27 nations including the U.S., U.K. and  China ,
has been given the responsibility of drafting the measures.  Countries that have a large number of subsidiaries of
overseas lenders in their territory have emphasized during Basel
Committee discussions that they should be free to toughen
capital rules on systemically important units of the largest
banks, one of the people said.  Other members of the group are concerned that a globally
systemically important lender might face a higher capital
surcharge than intended because of extra requirements imposed on
individual units.  National Regulators  “There is a desire to accommodate the needs for national
regulators to reflect their own jurisdictional peculiarities in
their  risk assessment ,”  Richard Reid , research director for the
International Centre for Financial Regulation in London, said in
an e-mail. “This implies that there will be a large degree of
national discretion involved.”  Should the Basel group agree on the draft rules, they would
then seek public comment.  The group is also expected at its meeting to approve rules
for the minimum amount of capital that banks should hold on
derivatives trades that pass through clearinghouses, the people
said, as well as draft margin requirements for derivatives
trades that are carried out directly between buyers and sellers,
without recourse to a clearing firm.  The committee will also continue discussions, expected to
be concluded later this year, on how to amend a draft rule that
would require lenders to hold enough easy-to-sell assets to
survive a 30-day credit squeeze.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  