-- Brazil Rolls Back Currency War Capital Curbs as Real Drop
-- B y   K a t e r i n a   P e t r o f f   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2012-06-14T17:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/brazil-reverses-iof-tax-on-foreign-loans-of-up-to-five-years-1-.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
is rolling back curbs on foreign capital imposed in the past 19
months after the real posted the biggest loss of any major
currency this year.  The government exempted foreign loans with a duration of
more than two years from a 6 percent tax to help companies and
banks rollover debt, said Finance Minister  Guido Mantega . The
financial transaction tax was previously charged on loans taken
abroad with a duration of as many as five years.  The tax was one of a series of measures taken to weaken the
real and protect exporters from what Rousseff dubbed “a
monetary tsunami” unleashed by rich nations seeking to devalue
their currencies. Mantega said today that the “excessive
liquidity” that led to  capital controls  ended with the
worsening of the European debt crisis.  “Before the crisis worsened, it was easier to have access
to long-term credit,” Mantega told reporters in Brasilia.
Brazilian banks and companies “need to rollover loans taken in
the past, and this makes it easier.”  After being the best performing major currency in the first
two months of the year, the real reversed course and plunged,
raising concern the move could stoke  inflation  as imports became
more expensive.  ‘Symbolic’  Since the start of March, the real has weakened 17 percent,
the worst performance of the 16 most-traded currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. The real was little changed at 2.0716 per  U.S.
dollar  at 1:05 p.m.  New York  time.  The currency will strengthen to 1.89 per U.S. dollar in the
fourth quarter, according to the median estimate in Bloomberg
survey of 26 analysts.  Today’s move “is very symbolic -- it shows the government
is very worried with the impact of the international situation
and has no interest in keeping the real above 2 per dollar for a
long period,”  Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Sao Paulo-
based Votorantim Ctvm Ltda, said in a phone interview. “The
weaker real puts pressure on inflation and may limit the room
for  interest rate  cuts.”  Rousseff’s administration has reduced the  benchmark
interest rate  to a record low, cut taxes on credit and  consumer
goods  and boosted subsidized loans to companies in a bid to
reignite economic growth amid slower global expansion.  Growth Forecasts  Economists covering the Brazilian economy reduced their
2012 economic growth forecast for a fifth straight week on June
8. The world’s biggest emerging market after China will expand
2.53 percent this year, less than the 2.73 percent growth rate
posted last year, according to the median estimate in a central
bank survey of about 100 analysts.  Brazil had net inflows of $843 million this month through
June 8, following a $2.69 billion outflow in May, according to
central bank data released yesterday.  Today’s measure is probably “the first move in dismantling
what has become a complex web of controls over capital
inflows,”  Tony Volpon , the head of emerging-markets research
for the Americas at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a note to
clients. “Nonetheless, we think it signals that the government,
after years of fighting the ‘currency war’, recognizes the need
to help roll over foreign indebtedness.”  Mantega said the government isn’t considering the reversal
of other measures taken to curb capital inflows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katerina Petroff in  Sao Paulo  at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 