-- Brazil Real Gains as Mantega Begins to Unwind Capital Controls
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-06-14T21:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/brazilian-currency-rallies-as-government-pares-back-iof-tax.html
Brazil ’s real gained for the first
time in four days on speculation the government will unwind more
capital controls as the European debt crisis worsens.  Investors are anticipating the government will roll back a
financial transactions tax on currency derivatives and foreign
investment in local fixed-income assets after it removed a levy
on overseas loans today. The  Finance Ministry  isn’t considering
changes to a financial transaction tax on derivatives, said a
ministry official who couldn’t be identified because of internal
policy.  “With the intensification of the euro crisis again,
authorities got scared of what the accumulation of all these
measures could do in the market now,” Italo Lombardi, Latin
America economist at Standard Chartered Bank, said by phone from
 New York .  Further reducing capital controls “definitely has an
impact,” he said.  The real climbed 0.8 percent to 2.0554 per  U.S. dollar  at 6
p.m. in Sao Paulo. The currency earlier today led all of the 25
emerging-market counterparts tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on the
interest-rate futures contract due in January 2014 fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.98 after earlier
touching a record low 7.95 percent.  Brazil exempted foreign loans with a maturity of more than
two years from a 6 percent tax to help companies and banks roll
over debt. The tax was one of a series of measures taken to
weaken the real and protect exporters from what President  Dilma Rousseff  dubbed a “monetary tsunami” unleashed by rich nations
seeking to devalue their currencies.  ‘Complex Web’  The “excessive liquidity” that led to the implementation
of capital controls ended with the worsening of the European
debt crisis, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said today in
Brasilia.  “This is the first move in dismantling what has become a
complex web of controls over capital inflows,”  Tony Volpon ,
head of emerging-markets research for the Americas at Nomura
Holdings Inc., wrote in an e-mailed report today. “The measure
in itself is unlikely to have a meaningful impact on actual
flows in the short term, as only a few top-tier names can access
the market at this time.”  Brazilian  interest-rate  futures yields dropped for a
seventh day as retail sales increased less than economists
forecast, fueling speculation policy makers will sustain the
pace of reductions in borrowing costs.  ‘Fall More’  “Brazil still has an interest rate that’s higher than most
countries and the trend is for it to fall more,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual Investimentos in Sao Paulo,
said in a telephone interview.  Retail sales rose 0.8 percent in April after a revised 0.3
percent increase the previous month, the national statistics
agency said today in  Rio de Janeiro . Economists had predicted an
increase of 1.4 percent, according to the median of 31 estimates
in a Bloomberg survey. Sales were up 6 percent from a year
earlier, compared with 12.5 percent in March.  Traders are anticipating central bank President Alexandre Tombini will reduce the 8.5 percent target lending rate by a
half-percentage point at next month’s policy meeting, according
to rate futures yields.  “The external environment reinforces the idea that
monetary relief should continue,” Lombardi said. “Retail sales
weren’t extremely weak, but they were less than expected.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  