-- Brazil’s Cemig Bets on Shale Gas to Triple Fuel Sales
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-06-14T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/brazil-s-cemig-bets-on-shale-gas-to-triple-fuel-sales.html
Cia Energetica de Minas Gerais ,
 Brazil ’s largest electricity company by market value, is betting
shale gas will help it triple fuel sales by 2016.  The  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based company is seeking U.S.
partners with experience in drilling shale gas to help develop
four blocks in  Minas Gerais  state, according to Chief Financial
Officer Luiz Fernando Rolla. The company, known as Cemig,
completed two exploratory wells this year and plans to drill
three more, according to its website.  Cemig is investing in unconventional fuels as it seeks to
boost sales from its gas unit to 3 million cubic meters a day by
2016 from an estimated 1.1 million cubic meters in 2012. A boom
in shale may allow the U.S. to become a net exporter of natural
gas by early next decade, while Argentina is seeking investors
to help develop about 13 billion barrels of reserves.  “The outlook for shale gas is very positive,” Rolla said
in an interview in  London . “Natural gas is still very
underdeveloped for Brazil and can be a great growth driver for
the company.”  Cemig is interested in buying Vale SA’s natural-gas
reservoirs to diversify its supplies for thermal plants from
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil company,
Rolla said in an interview last month. Vale, which has minority
stakes in onshore and off-shore gas projects in Brazil, is
selling stakes to focus on minerals and metals.  The power company’s clients include Vale, the world’s
largest iron-ore miner, and ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest
steelmaker, according to data compiled by  Bloomberg. (CMIG4)   Third Best  Cemig rose 37 percent this year, compared with a 1 percent
decline for  CPFL Energia SA (CPFE3)  and a 28 percent drop for  Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , and is the fifth-best performer in
Brazil’s benchmark index after Cia de Saneamento Basico do
Estado de  Sao Paulo , Hypermarcas SA, Cielo SA and Ultrapar
Participacoes SA.  Profit at Cemig’s gas unit has almost  doubled  in the past
five years as the company seeks to diversify away from
electricity. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization probably will rise to about 189 million reais in
2012, from 95 million in 2008, while profit is expected to climb
to 127 million reais from 86 million in the period, according to
a presentation on the company’s website.  Shale oil output has reversed decades-long declines in the
U.S. Oil production last year was 15 percent higher than in
2008, when it touched a 62-year low. In  Argentina , YPF SA, the
country’s largest oil company, made its biggest oil discovery
this year when it found at least 13 billion barrels of shale oil
resources.  Economic Growth  Brazilian gas output, which reached 66.2 million cubic
meters per day in March, increased 72 percent between 2001 and
2011, according to  data  from the country’s oil and gas
regulator, known as ANP. Gas use has been driven by economic
growth that has pulled more than 30 million people out of
poverty.  Gas imports account for about 42 percent of Brazilian gas
supplies, even as  domestic output  increased 72 percent in the
last decade.  Cemig has expanded through at least  13 acquisitions  in the
past five years, including transmission company Transmissora
Alianca de Energia Eletrica SA, known as Taesa, and distributor
Light SA. The company’s success in executing mergers and
acquisitions is a good signal for their expansion into gas,
according to Filipe Lopes, an analyst at Agora Corretora.  ‘Track Record’  “They have a good track record on their side after they
 bought Taesa  and Light and turned in profits from the two
business,” Lopes, who has a buy recommendation on the stock,
said in a telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro  yesterday.  While no companies have announced commercial shale gas
production so far in Brazil, developing the reserves would help
lower costs of the fuel in the country, according to Adriano Pires, head of the Rio de Janeiro-based Brazilian Center for
Infrastructure.  “It would be an opportunity to have cheaper gas in
Brazil,” Pires said in an interview yesterday from Rio.
“Demand is huge. And Cemig is very well located, near Rio,
Minas Gerais and Sao Paulo, to several companies that need gas.
It makes a lot of sense to invest in shale gas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  