-- Buffett Attracts Investments by Republicans Bashing His Tax Rule
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-06-15T14:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/buffett-attracts-investments-by-republicans-bashing-his-tax-rule.html
Republicans in the U.S. Congress,
who have criticized Warren Buffett’s approach to tax policy, are
largely holding onto their stocks and bonds in the billionaire’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   That detail is found in lawmakers’ annual personal
financial disclosures, released yesterday. The documents include
such tidbits as Representative Dennis Cardoza’s sale of the
racehorse Unanimous Consent and the multimillion-dollar Virginia
and North Carolina land holdings of New York Representative
Carolyn Maloney.  “These financial disclosure reports are critical
information for the press and the public to determine whether or
not conflicts of interest are present,” said  Craig Holman ,
government affairs lobbyist at Public Citizen in Washington.
“The purpose is not to show that they’re all millionaires. The
real purpose is to show whether any specific member owns stock
investments or property directly benefited by their actions in
Congress.”  Congress voted earlier this year to require lawmakers to
release information about mortgages on their personal
residences, and the files released yesterday included such data
for the first time. The change followed controversy over special
interest-rate deals that Countrywide Financial Corp. made for
some lawmakers.  The law will require members to report some transactions
within 45 days after a trade.  ‘Lot More’  “There is a lot more that we are going to uncover,” said
Holman, whose group advocates for consumers.  Among the  Berkshire investors  in Congress are Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, the top Republican on the Finance Committee;
Representative  Dave Camp  of Michigan, chairman of the House Ways
and Means Committee; and Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin,
chairman of the House Budget Committee.  Buffett, the 81-year-old billionaire chairman and chief
executive officer of Berkshire, has called for higher taxes for
the top U.S. earners, including himself. President  Barack Obama ,
a Democrat, began campaigning in September 2011 for a so-called
Buffett rule that would require a minimum tax rate of 30 percent
for people with incomes exceeding $2 million.  Camp and Hatch are the top two Republicans on tax policy in
Congress. Camp bought Berkshire corporate bonds worth $15,000 to
$50,000 in December 2011 and holds as much as $100,000. Hatch
has $30,000 to $100,000 in Berkshire stock, including at least
$16,000 purchased in October 2011.  ‘Fully Disclosed’  “The congressman’s financial information has been fully
disclosed in full compliance with the law and rules of the
House,” said Sage Eastman, a spokesman for Camp. The
congressman called the Buffett rule a “job-killing tax hike”
in April.  Antonia Ferrier, a spokeswoman for Hatch, said the senator
doesn’t manage his stocks. Hatch has criticized the Buffett
rule, calling it part of Obama’s “political games.”  At Berkshire’s annual meeting last month, Buffett took
questions along with Vice Chairman Charles Munger. Buffett was
asked if he should mute his political views, prompting applause
from some in the crowd at Omaha’s CenturyLink Center.  “When Charlie and I took this job, we did not decide to
put our citizenship in a blind trust,” Buffett said.  Other Republicans, including Senator  Jon Kyl  of Arizona,
Representative Ed Whitfield of Kentucky and Representative Dan Benishek of Michigan, sold their  Berkshire holdings  during 2011.  Broad Ranges  The forms cover holdings as of the end of 2011 and
transactions during that year. Lawmakers are required to report
holdings in broad ranges, in general categories that make
conflicts of interest sometimes tough to discern, Holman said.  House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus ,
who will preside over a hearing on  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  next
week, reported that he has two mortgages with the bank.  In 2002, the Alabama Republican took out a mortgage of
$50,000 to $100,000 on a property in his home state. In April
2012, he received a mortgage of more than $250,000 on a Capitol
Hill property.  JPMorgan CEO  Jamie Dimon  is scheduled to testify before the
committee on June 19.  On the Senate side, New York’s  Charles Schumer , the
chamber’s third-ranking Democrat, stands out for the relatively
high interest rate he’s paying on his primary residence. Since
2002, he has paid 6.85 percent on a 15-year loan. The mortgage
had less than $50,000 remaining in 2012, according to his
disclosure form.  Fixed-Rate Loan  Schumer obtained his mortgage from PHH Mortgage Corp.,
which on its website yesterday listed a 2.9 percent rate for a
fixed-rate 15-year loan.  Senators John Thune of South Dakota, John Barrasso of
Wyoming and Kyl are paying lower mortgage rates than their
fellow members of the Senate leadership. Kyl took out a five-
year, 3.25 percent loan in 2010, while Thune and Barrasso
refinanced in 2011 and received 3.75 percent rates.  The disclosures also included sections on the legal expense
funds of lawmakers who have them.  New York Democrat Charles Rangel, who was censured by the
House in 2010 for ethics violations, reported receiving $133,200
in gifts to his legal expense trust last year.  Among the donors were Larry Silverstein, a developer of the
new World Trade Center; Leonard Riggio, the founder and chairman
of Barnes & Noble Inc.; and former New York Mayor David Dinkins.
Some of Rangel’s current House colleagues helped him through
their campaign committees, including Ruben Hinojosa of Texas and
Mel Watt of  North Carolina . Also offering assistance was former
Representative Anthony Weiner of New York.  Richest People  The filings also showed which lawmakers are among the
country’s richest people. It takes about $9 million in assets to
be part of the wealthiest 1 percent of Americans, said Edward
Wolff of  New York University .  “It’s no surprise that they don’t want to raise taxes on
the very rich,” Wolff said. “They’ll be paying that
themselves.”  House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi of California tops the
list of House leaders with $40 million to $187 million in
financial assets she reports with her husband, San Francisco
commercial real estate investor Paul Pelosi.  Most of their assets are listed as rental properties in
California and partnership income in companies including
investment management and restaurants. The Pelosis own a
vineyard in St. Helena, California, valued from $5 million to
$25 million.  Cantor, McConnell  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor of Virginia listed
financial assets including stocks and real estate holdings
valued at almost $4 million to $9.6 million.  In the Senate, Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky
is the wealthiest member of the leadership, listing assets
valued at $9.9 million to $44.5 million. Much of the wealth is
held by his wife, Elaine Chao, who was labor secretary under
President  George W. Bush .  Among Cantor’s biggest stock holdings is an investment of
$500,000 to $1 million in Domino’s Pizza Inc. His wife, Diana, a
former Goldman, Sachs & Co. vice president who is chairman of
the board of the Virginia Retirement System, is a director of
Domino’s Pizza and  Media General Inc. (MEG) , a Richmond-based
newspaper and broadcast company.  Maryland Democrat Steny Hoyer, the minority whip, is among
the least wealthy House leaders. He cited assets of $30,000 to
$100,000. Hoyer reported he owes at least $100,000 and as much
as $250,000 in a mortgage on his home in Mechanicsville,
Maryland, to SunTrust Banks Inc.  Business Owner  House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican who once
owned a small business, listed assets valued at $1.8 million to
$5.4 million. All of his stock and bond investments in companies
including  Intel Corp. (INTC) , Home Depot Inc., Honeywell International
Inc., Pfizer Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. were through
individual retirement accounts. He and his wife, Debbie, who
works as a real estate agent, didn’t report a mortgage on their
home near a golf course in suburban Cincinnati.  In the Senate, Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada is the
wealthiest Democratic leader, listing assets of $2.78 million to
$6.19 million. Much of his net worth is in real estate holdings
in his home state of Nevada and in Arizona. Reid, the son of a
Nevada hard-rock miner, has holdings in bonds and stock mutual
funds and other investments.  Student Loans  U.S. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida is one of the few
members of Congress who is paying off  student loans . The first-
term Republican owes at least $100,000, and as much as $250,000,
in student loans through Sallie Mae incurred in 1996, the year
he earned a law degree from the University of Miami.  Those reporting owing money on their student loans included
Representative Linda Sanchez, a five-term California Democrat,
and four-term Republican Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers
of  Washington . Sanchez paid off the loans earlier this year, and
her report next year will show that she no longer has that debt,
said her spokesman, Adam Hudson, in an e-mail.  Unless Congress intervenes, on July 1 those who take out
new student loans will pay an interest rate of 6.8 percent. The
current rate is 3.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  