-- Buy Carrefour Shares, Get French Unit for Free Amid Slump
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-06-15T08:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/buy-carrefour-shares-get-french-operations-for-free-amid-slump.html
Carrefour SA’s (CA)  biggest promotion may
be on its stock.  Even after a decade of mostly stagnant  sales  in France, the
retailer’s main market and neighboring countries are worth about
7.50 euros a share, Espirito Santo analysts say. At yesterday’s
closing price of 13.68 euros, that would mean investors are
getting the region for free as Carrefour’s non-European
operations are worth 14.50 euros a share, the analysts estimate.  New Chief Executive Officer Georges Plassat, 63, has to
boost profitability in  Europe  where margins are the lowest in at
least a decade and set to worsen as shoppers shun Carrefour’s
hypermarkets. If he can’t, the calls for Plassat to spin off the
grocer’s business in  Asia  and  Latin America  may get louder, even
from investors who are clinging to their growth prospects as the
stock hovers at the lowest since 1994. Plassat faces
shareholders for the first time at the June 18 annual meeting.  The stock price “has now fallen to a level where
Carrefour’s third CEO in eight years can create  shareholder
value ,” Caroline Gulliver, an analyst at Espirito Santo, wrote
June 11. If Plassat fails in Europe, “then we expect he will be
under increasing pressure to create shareholder value through a
breakup of the group. Ideally, in our minds, he would do both.”  August Update  Gulliver is among analysts who expect Plassat to outline
his strategy at the grocer’s Aug. 30 results presentation. His
influence can already be seen after the company said today it is
exiting a joint venture in  Greece , its worst-performing market,
and announced yesterday that it acquired more stores in
 Argentina , where it is the market leader. A spokeswoman for
Carrefour declined to comment yesterday on Plassat’s plans.  The shares rose as much as 3.3 percent in Paris today.  In Latin America, Carrefour’s first-quarter like-for-like
sales surged 8.6 percent, excluding gasoline and currency
shifts. Revenue fell 0.3 percent in France and 3.8 percent in
the rest of Europe on the same basis. Shoppers are abandoning
the retailer’s largest stores in France, where Carrefour gets
about 40 percent of revenue, while  consumer spending  is
weakening in Spain and Greece amid the sovereign-debt crisis.  Plassat, who became CEO last month, has a turnaround
pedigree, having transformed an unprofitable shoemaker into an
apparel and accessories company with more than 3 billion euros
in revenue while at Vivarte SA. His main task at Carrefour is to
counter consumer perceptions that the grocer offers less value
for money than rivals in France, while reversing a slide in
margins by cutting costs, according to Bernard Delattre,
president of Altimeo Asset Management, which holds the shares.  ‘Cost-Killer’  “Plassat is well known to be a cost-killer,” said Yankel Hassan, a sales trader at Makor Securities in  London ,
highlighting Carrefour’s high administrative expenses as an area
the CEO may cut. “There is some room for improvement in margin.
That could turn the valuation of the business quite quickly.”  Still, earnings before interest and tax in France will fall
19 percent this year, Gulliver estimates. Carrefour’s  operating
margin  in Europe is expected to fall to 1.8 percent in 2012 from
2.3 percent in 2011, before recovering to the same level by
2016, according to the analyst. Her per-share valuation of the
European business is based on an operating margin of 2 percent.  Carrefour in March said it would halt a 1.5 billion-euro
plan to remodel some of its largest stores in Europe and focus
investment on lowering prices, putting more of its own products
on shelves and adding pick-up points for online grocery orders.
Consumers are increasingly shopping locally and online for
groceries and at specialists for non-food items.  International Spinoff?  The company may still need to accelerate the scale and pace
of price investment in  France  to close the gap with competitors,
including closely held E.Leclerc, which is seeking to overtake
Carrefour as the country’s largest grocer by 2015.  Should Plassat fail, he will have to revisit spinning off
the international businesses, Hassan said. Knight Vinke Asset
Management LLC, which owns about 1.5 percent of Carrefour’s
shares, said a year ago that the retailer could weigh grouping
and listing its international assets as a separate unit.  “They will sell it at some point if they fail to turn the
French business around,” said Hassan. Following that, investors
including  Bernard Arnault , France’s richest man, will say “sell
everything you can and give me my money back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  