-- California Democrats Say Brown’s Welfare Cuts Too Much
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/california-democrats-say-brown-s-welfare-cuts-too-much.html
Democrats who control  California ’s
Legislature said they’ll stand their ground against some of the
welfare cuts Governor  Jerry Brown  wants to close a $15.7 billion
deficit as a deadline to pass a budget looms just days away.  The members of Brown’s own party propose an alternative to
his budget that rejects about $1 billion of cuts in welfare,
childcare subsidies, in-home  health services  and college grants
for the poor. They’d pay for it by reducing reserves, shifting
funds and making accounting changes.  “We are not looking for a fight with the governor,”
Senate President Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from Sacramento,
told reporters at a Statehouse briefing yesterday. “But we will
not shy from a fight if it is necessary to stand for the middle
class, the poor and the struggling.”  Lawmakers in the most populous U.S. state must pass a
budget no later than June 15 or lose their pay for each day
they’re late. Democrats said they intend to vote before the
deadline even if no deal with Brown is reached. That would allow
them to keep their pay, notwithstanding a Brown veto of their
plan.  The 74-year-old governor has been meeting in private with
top Democrats to negotiate a compromise spending plan for the
world’s ninth-biggest economy. In a June 12 statement, Brown
said the Democrats’ plan would only worsen the spending gap in
future years.  Few Differences  Democratic leaders sought to play down the differences,
saying they and the governor agree on 99 percent of the budget.  “The differences between the governor’s proposal and our
proposal are bridgeable,” Assembly Speaker John Perez, a
Democrat from  Los Angeles , told reporters yesterday. “We’re not
only on the same page as the governor -- we’re in the same
paragraph.”  Perez and other legislative leaders sued Controller John Chiang after he asserted that last year’s budget, while adopted
by the deadline, wasn’t balanced and docked their pay. A court
later said he didn’t have the authority to impose his judgment
on when a budget is balanced.  An impasse over welfare might imperil the governor’s
chances of persuading voters in November to temporarily raise
income and sales taxes to prevent $5 billion in cuts to schools.  The ballot measure would boost income taxes on top earners
to the most in the nation, and raise sales levies that are now
the highest of any state. Without the revenue, Brown threatens
to cut $6 billion, most of it from education.  Health-Care, Courts  The governor also wants to slice $1.2 billion from health-
care for the poor, $1.1 billion from welfare and in-home help
for the elderly and disabled, and $500 million from courts. He’s
counting on lowering personnel costs by 5 percent, mainly by
trimming workers’ hours.  The Democrats’ plan builds a $544 million rainy day reserve
into the budget, about half of what Brown proposed. They would
reduce school funding by $330 million by using a different
method of calculating how much schools are due and take $250
million more than Brown from tax money that formerly flowed to
the state’s now-abolished redevelopment agencies.  The Democrats reject half of the $880 million in cuts Brown
proposed to the welfare-to-work program known as CalWorks. The
governor would require those receiving welfare to find work
within two years instead of four, or forgo the aid. He’d also
reduce by almost 30 percent the amount of money provided to
families with children who are no longer eligible for welfare
payments because of the time limit.  Democrats want to exempt families with young children from
some of the welfare-to-work rules.  ‘Back to Work’  “We need additional structural reforms to cut spending on
an ongoing basis, including welfare reform that’s built on
President Clinton’s framework and focused on getting people back
to work,” Brown said yesterday in a statement, referring to
welfare changes under former President  Bill Clinton . “Balancing
the budget is critical to protecting education for the long
term. We’re not there yet.”  The tug-of-war between Brown and his fellow Democrats over
welfare cuts verses drawing down reserves isn’t of much concern
to investors, said Eric Friedland, head of municipal credit
research at Schroder Investment Management North America, which
oversees about $2 billion in muni securities.  Friedland said the current budget cycle is notable for its
lack of cliffhanger drama, which should restore investor
confidence in a state that had to issue $2.6 billion in IOUs for
 cash flow  in 2010.  “The state of California is not in a liquidity crisis,”
Friedland said. “They’re not in danger of running out of cash
as long as they can access the markets with revenue anticipation
notes, which everybody anticipates they’ll be able to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  