-- Cameron Pledges ‘No Negotiation’ With Argentina Over Falklands
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-06-14T18:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/cameron-pledges-no-negotiation-with-argentina-over-falklands.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ,
speaking on the 30th anniversary of Britain’s victory over
 Argentina  in the Falkland Islands, said there would be “no
negotiation” over the territory’s future.  Britain and Argentina went to war in 1982 after Argentinian
forces invaded the South Atlantic archipelago. Tensions have
heightened this year, with Argentina protesting at the U.K.’s
deployment of a modern warship to the region and Prince William’s arrival for a stint as a military-helicopter pilot.
Argentina said last week five British  oil companies  are
operating illegally near the islands by exploring for crude.  “When it comes to the sovereignty of the Falkland Islands,
there will be absolutely no negotiation,” Cameron said in a
speech in  London . “This is not some game of global Monopoly,
with nations passing a territory between them. It’s about the
Islanders determining their own future.”  Cameron said his government had “no aggressive intentions
towards” Argentina, and that its protests about militarization
of the islands were “hyperbole and propaganda.” He said he
wanted to work with Argentina on issues such as fish stocks,
trade and the environment.  “But do not underestimate our resolve,” he said.
“Threats will not work. Attempts to intimidate the Islanders
will not succeed. Because Britain stands ready and willing to
stand up for the Falkland Islanders at any time.”  The Falklands government said June 12 it planned to hold a
referendum on its status in the first half of next year, with
the goal of showing that islanders wish to remain British.  A total of 255 British military personnel were killed while
649 Argentinian lives were lost in the conflict over the
islands, which Argentina calls the Malvinas. Britain has since
reinforced its armed forces on the islands, which have a
population of about 2,500 people.  The Argentinian government said June 4 that  Borders &
Southern Petroleum Plc (BOR) ,  Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH) ,  Desire
Petroleum Plc (DES) , Argos Resources Ltd. and  Falkland Oil and Gas
Ltd.  don’t have the required permits to operate off the
Falklands. Salisbury, England-based Rockhopper and London-based
Borders & Southern have announced discoveries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  