-- Brooks Told Cameron News Corp. Was ‘in It Together’ With Tories
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-06-14T23:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/cameron-tells-inquiry-press-politicians-have-bad-relationship-.html
News Corp. executive Rebekah Brooks
told  David Cameron  before he became U.K. prime minister that her
company was “in it together” with him in 2009, the week after
its Sun newspaper switched its support to his Tory party.  “I’m so rooting for you tomorrow,” Brooks told Cameron in
a text message on Oct. 7 that year, the day before his closing
speech to his party’s annual conference, according to evidence
disclosed at Britain’s media-ethics inquiry yesterday. “Not
just as a proud friend, but because professionally we’re
definitely in this together! Speech of your life? Yes he Cam!”  The last three words would become the Sun’s headline two
days later. One of the conference’s slogans had been “we’re all
in this together,” a reference to Conservative austerity plans.
The message was read out at the London inquiry as Cameron
defended his dealings with  News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman  Rupert Murdoch 
and his staff.  “I’m surprised that a company executive feels she can
address the leader of the U.K.’s oldest political party in this
way,”  Justin Fisher , professor of political science at Brunel
University in northwest London, said in an interview. “It’s
unbelievably crass. But it shows how powerful News International
perceived itself to be.”  Cameron established the probe in July after revelations
about the extent of illegal activity at News Corp.’s now-defunct
News of the World tabloid, once the best-selling newspaper in
Britain. Murdoch closed the News of the World and dropped his
New York-based company’s bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc (BSY)  that month in response to public anger over the phone-
hacking scandal. Brooks quit as chief executive officer of News
International, News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit, and was
charged in a related case.  ‘Nonsense’  In five hours of testimony under oath, broadcast live on
24-hour news channels, the prime minister said he hadn’t made
any “covert or overt” deals with the company. He denied
promising News Corp. support for a takeover of BSkyB, the
country’s biggest pay-television company, in exchange for
political backing during the 2010 election.  “This idea that somehow the Conservative Party and News
International got together and said you give us your support and
we’ll wave through this deal -- which we didn’t even know about
-- is nonsense,” Cameron told the inquiry.  Cameron defended his move in late 2010 to hand oversight of
the bid to Conservative Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt , after
Business Secretary  Vince Cable , from the Tories’ Liberal
Democrat coalition partners, was recorded telling undercover
journalists he’d “declared war” on Murdoch.  Government Lawyer  The prime minister said officials had asked a government
lawyer, Paul Jenkins, whether Hunt’s prior comments in favor of
the bid ruled him out. Jenkins, who was on vacation at the time,
said in a statement to the inquiry that he was given “the
gist” of Hunt’s remarks by phone and had advised they weren’t
an obstacle to giving him the job.  Cameron echoed Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s
evidence on June 11 that the offer presented political problems,
saying he’d viewed it as a “hot potato,” with media interests
both opposed and in favor.  He also defended his 2007 decision to hire as his press
chief  Andy Coulson , who had resigned that year as editor of the
News of the World after one of his reporters was jailed for
phone hacking. Cameron said that before hiring him, he’d
demanded and received an assurance at a face-to face meeting
that Coulson had known nothing about illegality.  No ‘Calculation’  “Yes, I accepted these undertakings, but so did a large
number of other people,” Cameron said. He said hiring a former
News Corp. editor hadn’t been part of a “calculation” to win
Murdoch’s support.  Coulson resigned as Cameron’s communications director early
last year as the phone-hacking scandal mounted. He was later one
of dozens of former News Corp. journalists arrested in police
probes into wrongdoing at the company’s U.K. publications.  The 45-year-old prime minister was forced to discuss his
personal life as the inquiry lawyer asked about his relationship
with the Murdoch family and Brooks, who was promoted to CEO of
News International in September 2009.  Cameron said his “level of contact went up” with Brooks
when she began dating his school friend Charlie Brooks, who
lived near his country home. The Brookses married in 2009.  “I was definitely seeing her more often,” Cameron said.
“Not every weekend. I don’t think most weekends.”  ‘Overly Close’  He’d earlier said relations between politicians and the
press had become too cozy. That “overly close” relationship
caused media regulation issues to be put on the “back burner,”
Cameron said, according to a reading of his witness statement by
the inquiry lawyer, Robert Jay.  Brooks sent the 2009 text to Cameron after he failed to
show up at a party thrown by News Corp.’s Times newspaper at the
Conservative conference. She’d invited executives to come to the
event, following the Sun’s endorsement of Cameron.  “I do understand the issue with the Times,” she said.
“Let’s discuss over country supper soon.”  The inquiry has threatened the stability of Cameron’s
coalition government as the presiding judge, Brian Leveson, has
examined the details of the Cabinet’s handling of the bid for
BSkyB. Some phone-hacking victims alleged Murdoch’s
relationships with Britain’s leaders helped keep the extent of
the phone-hacking scandal from coming to light sooner.  Cameron suggested that hiring Coulson might have made phone
hacking more of a story. “This has come back to haunt both him
and me,” he said.  E-Mail Contacts  The government was blindsided in April when News Corp. gave
the inquiry e-mails that showed close contact between Hunt’s
office and a News Corp. lobbyist during the time the minister
was deciding on the BSkyB bid. One of Hunt’s aides resigned the
following day.  Hunt survived a Commons motion by the opposition  Labour
Party  two days ago calling for a ministerial-standards watchdog
to investigate him. The Conservatives’ coalition allies, the
 Liberal Democrats , abstained.  Brooks told the inquiry last month she discussed phone
hacking and the BSkyB bid with Cameron before she stepped down.
She said she exchanged text messages with him about once or
twice a week, which he signed off with “lots of love.”  Preparations for the inquiry have seen Cameron’s office
compile a list of every journalist he’s met since becoming
leader of the  Conservative Party  in 2005 -- 1,404 meetings while
he was in opposition, Jay said yesterday.  Yacht Meeting  Cameron, who established the review of media ethics in
July, met with Murdoch six times since he became Britain’s
leader and on 15 occasions between 2006 and January 2010, when
he was leader of the Conservatives in opposition. In 2008,
Cameron flew on Murdoch’s son-in-law’s plane and stopped off in
Santorini,  Greece , to meet with the media mogul on a yacht.  “It was just an opportunity to try to get to know Rupert
Murdoch better,” Cameron said yesterday. “Obviously I was
trying to win over his newspapers and get across my opinions. It
was quite a long way to go, but it was quite an opportunity.”  The Leveson Inquiry has cost 3.2 million pounds ($5
million) and the total cost is expected to be 5.6 million
pounds, Hunt said in a written answer to a lawmaker’s question
yesterday.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  