-- Canada April New House Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-06-14T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/canada-april-new-house-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the new house  price index  report for April released by
 Statistics Canada .  The New Housing Price Index (NHPI) rose 0.2% in April,
following a 0.3% increase in March.  The metropolitan regions of Toronto and Oshawa and of
 Edmonton  were the top contributors to the increase in April.  In Toronto and Oshawa, the rise in prices was predominantly
explained by good market conditions.  In Edmonton, builders returned to list prices after
reporting promotional pricing and lower negotiated selling
prices in previous months.  From March to April, Saskatoon (+0.8%) posted the largest
monthly price advance, followed by London (+0.6%) and Hamilton
(+0.4%).  In Saskatoon, price increases were primarily the result of
higher land prices.  Higher material and labour costs were the main reason for
price increases in London and Hamilton.  In April, prices were unchanged in 7 of the 21 metropolitan
regions surveyed.  Monthly price declines were recorded in  St. John’s , St.
Catharines-Niagara and Windsor (all -0.1%).  Year over year, the NHPI was up 2.5% in April, following a
2.6% increase the previous month. The main contributor to the
advance was the metropolitan region of Toronto and Oshawa.  The largest year-over-year price increases were recorded in
Toronto and Oshawa (+5.9%), Regina (+5.6%) and Winnipeg (+4.3%).  Other significant year-over-year increases in contractors’
selling prices were observed in Québec (+3.2%) and Kitchener-
Cambridge-Waterloo (+2.9%).  Among the 21 metropolitan regions surveyed, 3 posted 12-
month price declines in April, with Victoria (-2.3%) posting the
largest decrease.  Note to readers  The New Housing Price Index (NHPI) measures changes over
time in the selling prices of new residential houses agreed upon
between the contractor and the buyer at the time of the signing
of the contract. It is designed to measure the changes in the
selling prices of new houses where detailed specifications
pertaining to each house remain the same between two consecutive
periods. The prices collected from builders and included in the
index are market selling prices less value added taxes, such as
the Federal Goods and Services Tax or the Harmonized Sales Tax.  The provincial government of British Columbia introduced
legislation on May 14, 2012, announcing the return to a
Provincial Sales Tax on April 1, 2013. From April·1, 2012, until
March 31, 2013, there are new housing transitional rebates in
place. After the transition is complete, the Provincial Sales
Tax on building materials in British Columbia will be embedded
in the contractor’s selling prices of new houses. These changes
will be reflected in the NHPI as reported by respondents.  This release presents data that are not seasonally adjusted
and the indexes published are final.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  