-- Canada First Quarter Capacity Utilization Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-06-14T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/canada-first-quarter-capacity-utilization-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s capacity utilization report for the first quarter
released by  Statistics Canada .  Canadian industries operated at 80.7% of their production
capacity in the first quarter, up 0.2 percentage points from the
previous quarter. An increase in capacity use in manufacturing
was partially offset by declines in the resource and energy
sectors. The increase of 0.2 percentage points followed an
advance of 0.8 percentage points in the third quarter and 0.6
percentage points in the fourth quarter of 2011.  Manufacturing: Transportation equipment and machinery industries
continue to drive up capacity utilization  In the first quarter, the strength of the manufacturing
industries as a whole was responsible for the growth in capacity
use of Canadian industries for a second consecutive quarter.
Capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector increased 0.7
percentage points to 81.3%. This was the third straight advance
since the decline in the second quarter of 2011.  The capacity utilization rate was up in 13 of the 21 major
manufacturing industries in the first quarter.  The largest contributors to the increase in the capacity
utilization rate were the transportation equipment, machinery,
wood product manufacturing and fabricated metal products
industries. Capacity use declined in some industries,
particularly the computer and electronic product manufacturing
industry and, to a lesser extent, the primary metals, food and
paper industries.  Demand for motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts raised
the capacity utilization rate in the transportation equipment
industry by 2.2 percentage points to 89.5%.  Higher production of machinery for the commercial and
services industry, as well as the mining and oil and gas
extraction industry was largely responsible for the 3.0
percentage point advance in the machinery industry’s capacity
use rate, bringing it to 88.5%.  The capacity utilization rate in the wood product
manufacturing industry rose from 74.0% in the fourth quarter of
2011 to 77.2% in the first quarter of 2012. The increase was
mainly the result of higher production in the sawmills and wood
preservation industry.  The fabricated metal products industry reported a 2.2
percentage point increase in its capacity utilization to 81.3%
in the first quarter. This advance was primarily attributable to
increased activity in machine shops and turned product and screw,
nut and bolt manufacturing.  The computer and electronic product manufacturing industry
posted the largest decline in capacity use. The industry
operated at 86.1% of its capacity, down 5.5 percentage points.
The main reason for the decrease was lower production of
communications equipment and computer and peripheral equipment.  Non-manufacturing industries: Reduced capacity utilization for
the sector  For a second straight quarter, the non-manufacturing sector
experienced a decline in its capacity utilization.  Capacity use in the oil and gas extraction industry
continued to climb, rising from 89.6% to 90.2%. The construction
industry also reported an increase in its capacity utilization
rate, from 77.7% in the fourth quarter of 2011 to 78.8% in the
first quarter of 2012. The growth was the result of an advance
in all types of construction, except non-residential building
construction.  However, capacity use decreased for the forestry and
logging industry; the electric power generation, transmission
and distribution industry; and the mining and quarrying industry.  Increased crude oil extraction was responsible for the 0.6
percentage point increase in the capacity utilization rate of
the oil and gas extraction industry to 90.2%, as gas extraction
was down.  Reduced activity in the forestry and logging industry
accounted for the 3.7 percentage point decline in its capacity
utilization rate in the first quarter to 88.0%.  Capacity use in the mining and quarrying industry decreased
from 64.2% to 60.3%, largely because of lower production by
potash mines and by copper, nickel, lead and zinc ore mines.  The 1.9 percentage point decrease in the capacity
utilization rate in the electric power generation, transmission
and distribution industry was attributable to reduced demand for
electricity because of a mild winter.  Note to readers  The industrial capacity utilization rate is the ratio of an
industry’s actual output to its estimated potential output. For
most industries, the annual estimates are obtained from the
Capital and Repair Expenditures Survey while the quarterly
pattern is derived from output-to-capital ratio series, the
output being the real gross domestic product at basic prices,
seasonally adjusted, by industry.  This program covers all manufacturing and selected non-
manufacturing industries.  At the time of this release, rates have been revised back
to the first quarter of 2010 to reflect updated source data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  