-- Carbon Emissions Threaten Marine Life, Scientist Says
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-06-14T18:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/carbon-emissions-threaten-marine-life-scientist-says.html
Carbon-dioxide emissions are
boosting acid levels in the waters off the California coast and
threatening marine life, according to an article published
online today by the journal  Science .  Animals including oysters and mussels that depend on
calcium carbonate to build skeletons or shells may struggle to
survive in 20 years to 30 years because the more acidic the
water, the less calcium carbonate it contains, Nicolas Gruber,
the lead author of the article and a  professor  of environmental
physics at ETH Zurich, said in a telephone interview.  The potential threat to marine life is another example of
how greenhouse-gas emissions are damaging the environment. More
than 130 world leaders are expected to discuss  climate change  in
 Rio de Janeiro  next week during the  United Nations Conference on
Sustainable Development .  “Oysters in early life stages, the larvae, are sensitive
to” an increase in acid levels, Gruber said in an interview.  “Organisms are trying to build shells out of calcium
carbonate,” he said. “If the water they live in becomes
undersaturated with that, they have great difficulties.”  The issue may affect marine life worldwide and will be
especially acute off the California coast, which is naturally
more acidic than some other regions, according to the article.  Commercial fishing operations also may be endangered as
organisms higher on the oceanic food chain are threatened by
acidification’s effects on single-cell algae, coral and
surrounding ecosystems, he said.  “There’s a very thin line of not being alarmist but still
sounding the bell,” Gruber said. “These changes are coming up
very quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  