-- Carpet Capital Confront Homelessness as Jobless Payments End
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-06-14T13:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/carpet-capital-confronts-homelessness-as-jobless-benefits-end.html
Miguel Gines lost his job as a
counselor for troubled children last year and has been surviving
by using savings and  unemployment benefits  to pay for food and
rent.  Now Gines, 58, who lives in Dalton, Georgia, is almost out
of cash. His $133-a-week jobless benefits stopped in April, two
months before Gines said he expected, and his savings are
depleted. He may be homeless in July, after rent money he
received from the Salvation Army charity runs out, he said.  “I was going along fine, looking for work,” Gines said.
“The next thing you know, it was ‘That’s it.’ I was thinking,
‘Oh my God, what am I going to do.'” Gines said he still hasn’t
figured out the answer.  Gines is among about 370,000 people in 23 states whose
 extended  unemployment benefits abruptly expired from April 7 to
May 12, according to estimates from the National Employment Law
Project, an employee-advocacy organization based in  New York .
The group says the numbers will continue to increase as state
unemployment rates dip below thresholds required for continued
federal funding.  Beginning this month, legislation approved by Congress in
February will begin reducing federal benefits even further, in a
separate program that now supports 2.6 million people. Those
people will lose benefits entirely in December.  More Claims  More Americans than forecast applied for  unemployment 
insurance payments last week, a sign the labor market is
struggling to improve. Claims increased by 6,000 to 386,000 in
the week ended June 9, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington .  In Georgia, 52,000 people received a letter two months ago
announcing the end of benefits weeks or months before the end of
the extended payment period. The cutoff in  Georgia  happened
after the state’s unemployment  rate  fell to 8.9 percent.  The formula used to eliminate funding for the long-term
jobless doesn’t account for areas with high unemployment within
a state, such as where Gines lives.  In Dalton, with a population of 33,000 in the foothills of
the Blue Ridge Mountains, and the surrounding area, the
unemployment rate is the highest in the state: 11.4 percent,
according to government data. Of all U.S. metropolitan areas,
Dalton reported the largest percentage decrease in  employment 
from a year earlier, according to April data from the  U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics .  Carpet Capital  The northwest Georgia city calls itself the Carpet Capital
of the World. Sixty-five percent of carpet sold in the U.S. is
made within a 30 mile radius of Dalton, according to the Carpet
and Rug Institute, a trade association based in the city.  Dalton withstood competition from overseas that undermined
the  textile industry  in the South, only to suffer from declining
home construction in the U.S. in recent years.  The city’s unemployed said they can’t understand the logic
of cutting benefits.  Emma Bartenfield, 58, a life-long resident who previously
worked in the carpet industry, is among those whose benefits
were cut off in April. She said she was puzzled by a letter from
the state’s Labor Department explaining that the program ended
because unemployment dipped.  “They said Georgia had reached a tipping point,”
Bartenfield said. “But how can that be, when nobody in Dalton
has a job?”  Stacking Groceries  “There are people who were vice presidents now stacking
groceries at Wal-Mart,” she said.  She said she remembers when workers could quit one carpet
factory job in the morning and get hired at another that
afternoon. Now, she said, residents are moving, looking for work
in other parts of the country.  The city’s  unemployment rate  is aggravating tension between
Hispanics and non-Hispanics. Bartenfield and other residents
complained that some employers prefer to hire Hispanics. That
suspicion is fueled by a 2010 settlement of a class-action
lawsuit brought against a carpet manufacturer by workers who
said it used temporary agencies to depress wages by hiring
illegal workers.  Kelly Browning, 29, said she lost unemployment benefits two
months earlier than she expected after losing a job as a
restaurant parking valet last year. She said she has been
looking for work ever since, searching classified ads, Facebook
and listings in the unemployment office.  “There’s nothing,” Browning said.  ‘Wanting Something’  The loss of the $194 weekly benefit “really put me in a
bind,” she said. “I have two kids in school, and they’re
always wanting something.”  Her 7-year-old daughter needs summer clothes that she can’t
afford, she said.  Browning said she’s getting by using  food stamps . For now,
she and her husband, Jason, live free in a trailer in a
foreclosed park because he’s working for the bank, collecting
rent from residents. She said she doesn’t expect the arrangement
will last long.  In December 2007, when the recession began, 22,700 of the
Dalton area’s 39,600 private industry jobs were with carpet
factories and their suppliers, according to data from the state
Department of Labor. By April, about 5,500 were gone.  Lost Jobs  Many jobs lost over the past five years won’t come back
even when housing construction picks up. Dalton’s carpet
manufacturers, including  Mohawk Industries (MHK)  Inc.,  Shaw
Industries , now owned by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway (BRK/A) 
Inc., and Beaulieu of America Inc., invested in new less-labor-
intensive technology during the recession, said Brian Anderson,
president and CEO of the Dalton-Whitfield Chamber of Commerce.
The technology allows carpets to be assembled in one factory
instead of three or four, he said.  Brian Massingill, 48, lost his job when a carpet factory
closed in February and began drawing unemployment benefits in
April.  For now, Massingill, his wife, Christina, 33, and their
three children, ages 3 to 7, are living off
unemployment benefits, charity and food stamps.  With the reduction in long-term benefits, the family is
concerned that the benefits won’t last long enough if Massingill
can’t find a job.  “It’s just a little bit, but it helps keeping a roof over
peoples’ heads,” Christina Massingill said.  Leaving Dalton  Gines, the unemployed youth counselor, said he has
considered leaving Dalton because of the scarcity of jobs. He
doesn’t know where he’d go, he said.  He separated from his wife, he said, and his two children
are grown.  Gines said he is trying to get hired as a trucking company
dispatcher. He’ll also apply for work at the area’s temporary
agencies, which are hiring for the few jobs available in the
city, Gines said. He said he didn’t do it earlier because the
pay was less than he received on unemployment, and he risked
losing his benefits completely if the job didn’t last long
enough to qualify him for unemployment again.  When the government money stopped, Gines gave up up his
apartment. He moved into an $80-per-week room with a microwave
oven by the bed, a knee-high refrigerator and a rail on the wall
he uses to hang clothes. He used a one-time donation from the
Salvation Army to pay ahead for the rest of the month.  He said he doesn’t know what he’ll do if he hasn’t found a
job by July.  “I’m going to try and sneak into a storage room and
sleep,” he said. “Sometimes you just have to laugh.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  