-- Central Banks Warn Greek-Led Euro Stress Threatens World
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-06-15T09:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/central-banks-warn-greek-led-euro-stress-threatens-world.html
Central banks intensified warnings
that Europe’s failure to tame its debt crisis threatens to roil
the world’s financial markets and economy as  Greece ’s election
in two days looms as the next flashpoint for investors.  Monetary policy makers from the U.K. to Japan and Canada
sounded the alert about potential fallout from the single
currency bloc’s troubles. They spoke as Group of 20 leaders
prepare to meet in Mexico next week amid the weakest
international economy since the 2009 recession, with a video 
call for European heads of government scheduled for today.   A victory by Syriza, the party that promises to renege on
Greece’s end of the bailout deal, could speed the nation’s exit
from the euro. Absent a quick fix from divided European
governments, central bankers may have to engage in fresh crisis-
fighting of their own to ensure markets operate and their
economies grow if the election jolts investors.  Spain ’s 10-year
bond yield vaulted to 7 percent yesterday in a fresh sign of the
stress that has plagued the region for two years.  The crisis has created a “large black cloud of uncertainty
hanging over not only the euro area, but our economy too, and
indeed the world economy,”  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said in London late yesterday.  ‘Major Shock’  Canada faces a “major shock,” and global financial
conditions could deteriorate significantly if Europe’s crisis
worsens, the country’s central bank said yesterday.  Bank of
Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said June 13 that the euro area
poses the biggest challenge to the world’s No. 3 economy. The
BOJ today kept monetary policy unchanged, while saying it will
be giving “particular” attention to global market
developments.  A week after opening the door to an interest rate cut,
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said today that
while there are “serious downside risks” to the economic
outlook, political choices take precedence over monetary policy.
He reiterated the ECB “will continue to supply liquidity to
solvent banks where needed.”  “It will be very important for central banks over the next
few weeks to articulate what their role is,” said Lawrence Goodman, president of the Center for Financial Stability in  New
York , a research group focused on financial markets. “The key
goal will be to provide sufficient liquidity in the event of a
freeze.”  Global Efforts  U.S. stocks advanced yesterday after Reuters reported that
central banks are prepared to coordinate actions if needed to
boost liquidity in financial markets, citing officials linked to
the G-20 nations. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 1.1
percent to 1,329.10 at the close of trading in New York.  Central bankers have been at the forefront of efforts to
insulate their economies from the financial crises that began to
rage in August 2007. In October 2008, they cut  interest rates  in
unison, and at the end of last year, six of them made it cheaper
for banks to borrow dollars in emergencies. Dollar swap lines
have been repeatedly augmented since the 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Investors want global leaders to take action on reviving
economic growth, Institute of International Finance Managing
Director  Charles Dallara  said in a letter yesterday to the G-20.
He said markets “will be looking expectantly for evidence of a
globally coordinated policy response targeted to revive growth
prospects.”  Spanish Aid  Europe ’s turmoil this week forced Spain to ask for a
bailout of its banks that may run as high as 100 billion euros
($126 billion), making it the fourth and largest euro-zone
economy to seek aid. The record yield on Spanish bonds has
fueled speculation the world’s 12th-biggest economy may need a
full rescue.  Attention is turning to Greece, which votes a second time
in six weeks after a May 6 ballot failed to yield a government.
The Syriza party, led by Alexis Tsipras, is vying for first
place in the opinion polls with a promise to abrogate the terms
of the 240 billion-euro bailout from the European Commission,
ECB and  International Monetary Fund . That’s drawn warnings that
it could cost Greece the aid it needs and ultimately its place
within the euro.  Monetary policy makers are already leaning toward greater
stimulus a week after China cut borrowing costs for the first
time in four years. King said yesterday that more aid may be
needed in the U.K., and a new plan to spur bank lending may be
in place in a few weeks.  Coordination Chance  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  says U.S. policy
makers will discuss next week whether to do more to spur growth.
The Swiss central bank yesterday pledged to keep defending its 
franc cap and left borrowing costs at zero to offset 
“exceptionally high” risks from the euro area.  Shirakwa said today a strong yen could also hurt his
economy and has said the central bank is watching its effect.  While the G-20 could consider coordinated monetary
stimulus, it’s unlikely given neither the U.K. nor European
central banks acted when they had a chance a week ago, Andrew Kenningham, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London,
said in a report yesterday.  “In fact, we think the central banks which matter most are
unlikely to agree to further significant policy stimulus this
year unless and until the crisis in the euro-zone deteriorates
further,” he said.  Mexico Summit  G-20 governments are also indicating they will use the June
18-19 summit in Los Cabos,  Mexico , to again demand Europe pursue
fresh measures. It’s the fourth consecutive such meeting at
which Europe’s strains have topped the agenda and comes seven
months after talks in Cannes, France, were dominated by the
prospect Greece could be forced from the euro.  Canadian Finance Minister James Flaherty said June 13 that
“a disruptive moment” could occur if Greeks back anti-bailout
parties, which may end up costing the country membership in the
euro. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the same
day that European leaders “recognize they’re going to have to
do a bunch more.”  “Countries outside of Europe have been consistent in
calling for bolder, less incremental measures to stem the
crisis,” said  Daniel Price , who organized the first G-20 summit
for President  George W. Bush  in 2008 and is now managing
director of Rock Creek Global Advisors, a Washington-based
consultancy. “They are losing patience with the apparent
inability of Europe to implement reforms all recognize as
necessary.”  German Pledge  Chancellor Angela Merkel , leader of Europe’s biggest
economy, said yesterday Germany is willing to help resolve the
regional strains though cannot tackle the global fallout alone.  Acknowledging that Germany, as “the engine of growth and
anchor of stability in Europe,” will be asked to do more in
Mexico, she said the nation would do so because “we are
convinced that Europe is our destiny and our future.”  Merkel still rejected all “seemingly easy” solutions,
such as issuing joint debt.  European leaders are preparing for their own summit in
Brussels on June 28-29 aimed at devising ways to better
integrate the euro area. They will press for new efforts to
boost the economy and improve lending conditions as well as seek
“more specific building blocks” to link budget and banking
policies, according to a draft document prepared for those
talks.  Draghi said a blueprint he is working on with European
Union President  Herman Van Rompuy , Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker and European Commission President  Jose Barroso  will be
published “very soon.”  “Markets and people need to be reassured that we are still
travelling together,” Draghi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  