-- Chile Seen Keeping Rate on Hold as Opinions Split Over Next Move
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-06-14T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/chile-seen-keeping-rate-on-hold-as-opinions-split-over-next-move.html
Chile  will leave its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged for a fifth straight month today as
inflation slows, according to both traders and analysts -- a
consensus that breaks down for policy decisions later this year.  Policy makers, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara, will
keep the key rate at 5 percent, according to all 16 economists
 surveyed by Bloomberg . The bank will announce its decision after
6:00 p.m. in Santiago.  Traders and investors polled by the central bank this week
forecast a rate cut by December as  Europe ’s debt crisis deepens
and as inflation eased for the third straight month in May.
Economists in a separate bank poll published June 12 expected
the next move to be a rate increase in 2013 following at least
11 months with no change after unemployment fell to the lowest
in more than a decade.  “The base case scenario is that the central bank will wait
to see how the European situation is going to evolve,” Diego Figueroa, an analyst at Larrain Vial SA, said by phone.
“Economists’ estimates are more conservative and less volatile,
while swaps are anticipating a rate cut soon.”  Chile’s six-month  interest-rate swaps , which reflect
traders’ views of average borrowing costs, fell to 4.84 percent
yesterday from 5 percent on May 15, indicating that they are
betting on a cut.  Inflation slowed to 3.1 percent in May from 3.5 percent the
month before, while the economy expanded 5.6 percent in the
first quarter from the year earlier.  Wait-and-See  Concern over the outcome of the European sovereign-debt
crisis poses a risk to policy makers from Chile and other
commodity-exporting nations in  Latin America  such as  Brazil  and
Colombia, the World Bank said in its Global Economic Prospects
report on June 12.  Brazil’s central bank has responded to slowing growth this
year by cutting its key rate to a record-low 8.5 percent from
last year’s high of 12.5 percent.  Colombia  has held borrowing
costs at 5.25 percent for three months following nine increases
since February 2011, while Chile raised rates five times last
year before making a surprise reduction in January.  Chile’s policy makers are unlikely to change rates until
it’s clearer what impact the world economic slowdown will have
on the Andean nation, Santiago-based Celfin Capital SA said in a
note e-mailed to investors yesterday.  “The worsening global outlook, some recent signs of
moderation in local economic activity, and lower inflation
figures and expectations have prompted a wait-and-see approach
by the central bank,” it said. “These factors likely postponed
the base rate increase envisioned in the last monetary policy
report.”  Inflation Forecast  Policy makers in April forecast inflation would end the
year at 3.5 percent. Since then, the pace of price increases has
eased, declining in May to the lowest level since July last
year. Inflation will slow further to 2.9 percent in a year,
according to the median estimate of 58 traders and investors in
the central bank’s June 13 survey.  Still, an unexpected improvement in the world economy would
increase the threat of overheating in some commodity-based
economies, the Washington-based  World Bank  said. Many policy
makers in  South America  last year tried to contain inflationary
pressures by raising interest rates.  “Policy tightening at that time was exacerbated by the
slowdown in Europe,” the bank said. “There is a risk that the
subsequent loosening of policies since then and perhaps in the
future could combine with improved external conditions to
provoke an overshooting in economic activity and inflation.”  Economic Growth  Chile’s first-quarter growth of 5.6 percent exceeded
estimates made by policy makers in April. Unemployment slid to
6.5 percent in the three months through April from 7 percent the
year earlier.  Expansion probably will decelerate as the economy climbs
4.7 percent this year before speeding up again to 5 percent in
2013, according to the median estimate of 60 economists in the
June 12 central bank survey of economists.  “Chile’s economy has shown itself to be quite dynamic,”
central bank board member Sebastian Claro said at a May 28
speech in Santiago. “The impact from the problems in Europe and
the loss of vigor in some  developing countries  depends on
elements outside our control and others that we can influence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 