-- Chile Holds Key Rate at 5% as Inflation Eases Amid Global Woes
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-06-14T22:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/chile-holds-key-rate-at-5-as-inflation-eases-amid-global-woes.html
Chile ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a fifth consecutive month
as inflation in the world’s top copper producer eased and
unemployment continued to decline.  The policy board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara,
held the key interest rate at 5 percent today, as forecast by
all 16 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg .  Chile boasts the lowest inflation among  Latin America ’s
major economies, even as its borrowing costs surpass those of
Mexico and  Peru . While those factors give policy makers space to
cut interest rates, faster economic growth and the limited
impact of the euro area’s debt crisis to date mean the central
bank will wait before moving rates, economist Mario Arend said.  “Uncertainty over what’s happening in the  euro zone  will
keep the central bank in a wait-and-see attitude,” Arend, chief
economist at Santiago-based financial services company Celfin
Capital SA, said by phone yesterday. “They’re going to keep a
neutral bias.”  Vergara may give a clearer guide to monetary policy when he
addresses the Senate Finance Committee on June 18 after the bank
publishes a new report with fresh forecasts. Policy makers in
their last report, published April 3, estimated that inflation
would end the year at 3.5 percent and that  interest rates  would
probably track market expectations.  Since then, annual inflation slowed to 3.1 percent in May
and one-year interest rate swaps, which reflect traders’ views
of average borrowing costs, dropped 71 basis points, or 0.71
percentage point, to 4.72 percent yesterday.  Analysts vs Traders  While traders are forecasting a rate reduction within 12
months, economists surveyed by the central bank estimate the
bank’s next move will be an increase.  “There’s definitely a gap as the swaps market is showing
lower rates than the economists’ survey,” Bret Rosen, a Latin
America strategist at Standard Chartered Bank in  New York , said
by telephone. “Economists tend to complete their numbers with a
timelag. We had a lower inflation print in May and the swaps
market has reacted accordingly.”  Inflation may be slowing because of one-time factors such
as lower  oil prices  and still poses a threat in the medium term,
policy makers said in minutes of last month’s meeting. Noting a
“tight” labor market and faster-than-forecast economic growth,
central bank board members discussed raising interest rates
before voting unanimously to keep them unchanged May 17.  Jobless Rate  The jobless rate unexpectedly fell to 6.5 percent in the
three months through April from 7 percent in the same period
last year, while the economy has expanded 5.4 percent in the
first four months of 2012, according to calculations made by
Bloomberg based on central bank data. Policy makers in April
forecast gross domestic product would climb 4 percent to 5
percent this year.  Still,  South America ’s fifth-biggest economy is showing
signs of moderation as growth eased to 5 percent in March and
4.8 percent in April -- the weakest expansion since November
last year.  Chile in May posted the widest trade deficit since 2008 as
exports dropped 12 percent from the previous year on lower
copper prices. The metal, which accounts for more than half of
the country’s exports, has averaged $3.7025 a pound this year,
down from $4.0222 a pound in 2011.  “The Chilean economy is open and integrated, meaning it
isn’t able to remain isolated from developments,” bank board
member Sebastian Claro said in a May 28 speech in Santiago.
“The central bank is monitoring developments closely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 