-- Chilean Inflation-Linked Bond Yields Climb as Fuel Costs Fall
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-06-14T19:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/chilean-inflation-linked-bond-yields-climb-as-fuel-costs-fall.html
Chilean inflation-linked bond yields
rose to a two-month high as investors positioned for slower
price increases after the country’s state-owned refiner said
fuel costs would fall.  The yield on  five-year  inflation-linked central bank bonds
rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.5
percent, the highest since April 11. Five-year breakeven
inflation measured by the gap between fixed-rate and inflation-
linked bond yields fell to 2.6 percent, a decline of 71 basis
points from the peak in March.  Traders in the forwards market for unidades de fomento,
Chile’s inflation-linked accounting unit, expect prices to rise
0.02 percent this month after they were  unchanged  last month.
That signals the peso value of the unidad de fomento, known as
the UF, will be little changed between now and August and pushes
up the cost of financing inflation-linked positions.  “It’s expensive to go long inflation,” said Sebastian
Ide, head of rates trading at Banco de  Chile  in Santiago.
“There is a lot of selling of UF assets and none of the funds
want to buy. It costs about 10 basis points a month to go long
breakeven for two years, you would need a major change in the
outlook for commodities for it to be worth it.”  Earlier today, contracts showed traders betting on a 0.05
percent decline in prices this month. Two weeks ago, they were
expecting an increase of 0.18 percent in May and 0.14 percent in
June.  Gasoline Prices  The wholesale price of premium gasoline in Santiago will
decline 2.5 percent in the week through June 20, state-owned oil
refiner Empresa Nacional del Petroleo said yesterday by e-mail.
Low-octane gasoline will fall 2.1 percent.  The lower dollar cost of crude oil and the weaker dollar
both contributed to the cheaper fuel, Enap said.  The price of a liter of low-octane gasoline has declined 50
pesos per liter since April, which is “very good news for
consumers,” Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said in an e-mailed
statement.  One-year breakeven inflation, the average future pace of
inflation priced in to the swaps market, declined to a 2012 low
of 2.65 percent.  The yield on  10-year inflation-linked  bonds fell 1 basis
point to 2.50 percent while the yield on  fixed-rate bonds  fell
five basis points to 5.33 percent.  Chile’s peso advanced as a drop in U.S. consumer prices
spurred speculation the  Federal Reserve  will act to boost growth
in the world’s biggest economy, offsetting concern fueled by a
cut to  Spain ’s credit rating.  The peso appreciated 0.2 percent to 501.23 per  U.S. dollar .
The currency has traded in a range of 499.13 to 505.35 this
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  