-- Does China’s Next Leader Want the Job?
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-06-14T21:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/china-s-frankenstein-economy-might-grow-scarier-william-pesek.html
Anyone who thinks their job stinks
should consider the one Xi Jinping is about to take on.  Xi is expected to replace Chinese President  Hu Jintao  in
the fall. He must have some serious misgivings. If the last 20
years were a golden age for the world’s most populous nation,
today is one filled with growing doubts. The Bo Xilai scandal
has shattered the veneer of political stability, cyber-
dissidents are emboldened in their challenges of the Communist
Party and diplomatic headaches abound -- many of them concerning
the U.S., where China may figure in November’s presidential
election.  No issue looms larger than China’s suddenly shaky economy.
The world is now bracing for a slowdown that pundits said was
unlikely to happen. So are officials in Beijing, who worry that
social unrest could boil over quickly if growth evaporates.  A bit of perspective is in order. Any serious slump in
 China  probably is a few years off, not something that will send
markets into a tailspin in the next few months. Look to  Europe 
for that.  That’s not to say that a slowdown to 7 percent growth or
even 6 percent is good news for anyone. The repercussions would
hurt big commodity exporters such as Australia, Brazil and
 Canada , and make it even harder for Europe’s leaders to resolve
the debt crisis. Remember that just a few months ago, traders
were speculating that China would deploy its $3.3 trillion of
currency reserves to bail out Europe.  Unhappy Markets  Stock and commodity markets would be sideswiped by a China
slowdown. That gloom would feed back through lower  consumer
confidence  and business sentiment. That’s in addition to any
trauma should  Greece  abandon the euro or if Italy is next up
seeking a bailout following last weekend’s rescue of  Spain ’s
banks.  There are reasons to believe China has the wherewithal to
stave off a slump in the short run. Its central bank last week
cut interest-rates for the first time in four years, and there
was speculation this week about additional stimulus packages.  Gloomy data on industrial production, fixed-asset
investment, exports, retail sales, coal and electricity have
Chinese policy makers ready to double down on the massive 4
trillion  yuan  ($586 billion at the time) stimulus it tossed at
the economy in 2008. Assume the next one will be huge and aimed
at keeping today’s 8.1 percent growth rate from slipping to the
6.4 percent that China International Capital Corp., the nation’s
biggest investment bank, says is possible this year.  That’s where the trouble begins. Last time, it was easy for
China. Throw piles and piles of money at new infrastructure
projects and watch gross domestic product boom. This time, China
must be smarter. Xi, and whoever succeeds  Wen Jiabao  as premier,
must avoid the asset bubbles and property-price spirals that
accompanied the largess of 2008. Anything that pushes real
estate further out of reach for China’s 99 percent increases the
odds that protesters will converge on  Tiananmen Square .  Expectations are growing that the next fiscal injection
will be targeted at strategic industries that create jobs
without dangerous  excesses . The question is how the central
government can control the stimulus after it’s turned over to
local officials. Provincial leaders are prone to financing pet
projects, which may lead to more unproductive investments,
corruption and public discontent.  The big risk for Xi’s team is that little of this money
will go toward retooling the economy. China has made minimal
progress cultivating a deep domestic market for consumption that
relies less on exports and embraces full currency
convertibility. To the contrary: China shows no signs that it is
interested in growth that benefits anyone other than the elites
and their extended families.  Two Choices  China’s leaders have a choice. Either they make those
difficult but necessary changes, with the chances of producing
more sustainable growth. Or they kick reforms down the road,
administer another stimulus, and risk a bigger crash in the
years ahead. At the moment, the temptation is to pick No. 2.  All stimulus and no reform gives China some Frankenstein-
like qualities -- a powerful economic creature born out of
unorthodox experiments. Unproductive spending of the magnitude
China already has unleashed, and what seems to be in the
pipeline, may result in a Japan-like debt mess. When China’s
reckoning does come, and every industrializing nation has one,
it may be far worse than  investors  believe. Xi will have to do a
much better job than his predecessor to keep that reckoning from
becoming a monster all its own.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Obama’s economic speech  and
 why Europe is not ready for a Greek exit ; Virginia Postrel on
 making your own Michelangelo ;  Jonathan Weil  on  accounting tricks
by Spain’s banks ; Donald Haider on  avoiding the fiscal cliff ;
 Steven Greenhut  on  why “top two” primaries are bad for
democracy .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  