-- China’s Loneliest Billionaire Ma Dabbles in Tai Chi, Poker
-- B y   B r u c e   E i n h o r n   a n d   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-06-14T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/china-s-loneliest-billionaire-ma-dabbles-in-tai-chi-poker.html
It’s been a rough 18 months for
Chinese Internet tycoon Jack Ma, founder and chairman of Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd. Early in 2011 a fraud scandal hit his
business-to-business e-commerce site, Alibaba.com.  At about the same time, the U.S. government publicly shamed
Alibaba-owned Taobao, a hybrid of  Amazon.com (AMZN)  and EBay, for 
enabling the sale of counterfeit merchandise. Last fall, 
thousands of small merchants protested online and outside
Alibaba’s headquarters in Ma’s hometown, the eastern Chinese
city of Hangzhou, against an increase in Taobao’s listing fees.  “I was so lonely at that time,” said Ma, who presents 
himself as a champion of local entrepreneurs and added the 
higher prices were necessary to fight piracy. “Nobody wanted to
believe Jack Ma.”  Ma’s bad run may be coming to an end, as  Bloomberg
Businessweek  reports in its June 18 issue. On May 21 he reached
a long-desired deal with  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  to buy back half of the U.S.
Web portal’s 40 percent stake in Alibaba Group. The Chinese
company will pay Yahoo $7.1 billion for the shares, valuing
Alibaba at about $35 billion.  Yahoo and another large shareholder, Softbank Inc., agreed
to reduce their  voting rights  to 49.9 percent, even though the
two combined still own more than half of Alibaba. Shareholders
also approved a plan to pay as much as $2.5 billion to privatize
Hong Kong-listed  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688) , the group’s flagship brand.  Former Teacher  Taken together, the deals are huge steps toward Ma’s goal
of an initial public offering for Alibaba Group. The IPO, which
Ma says is still a few years off, could be the largest stock
market debut in Chinese Internet history. That would certainly
show critics that he’s built a sustainable company.  “This is not a business that belongs to Jack Ma,” he
said in an interview in Beijing this month.  Ma, a former English teacher, started Alibaba in 1999. For
most of its history, he played the part of the hometown favorite
standing up to foreigners such as  Meg Whitman , who competed
against Taobao when she was chief executive officer of  EBay (EBAY)  Inc.  As his difficulties last year show, Ma’s operation is no
longer the scrappy underdog -- it’s an expanding empire.
Alibaba.com has offices in the U.S., Britain,  India ,  Japan , and
 South Korea . Taobao and Tmall.com, a sister site that opened in
2008, dominate e-commerce in China and together account for 71
percent of consumers’ online purchases, according to research
firm  Analysys International . Most of those customers use Alipay,
Ma’s online payment service.  In the year ended Sept. 30, Alibaba Group earned a profit
of $268 million on sales of $2.3 billion, according to Yahoo’s
annual report.  “We are much more influential than we thought,” said Zeng Ming, Ma’s chief strategist.  Signs of Distraction  For Alibaba to keep its momentum, the company will need
focus -- right at a time when Ma is showing signs of distraction.  “I am going to enjoy some other things apart from
business,” he said.  Already one of  China ’s richest men, with a stake in Alibaba
worth about $2.6 billion, Ma shows little interest in technology.
He doesn’t spend much time online and depends on a colleague to
help him download U.S. television shows to his iPad.  Instead, he dabbles in poker, traditional medicine, and
other pastimes. He’s teamed up with movie star  Jet Li  to spread
awareness of tai chi, and is so into the ancient Chinese martial
art that he brings along a personal trainer when he travels.
Environmentalism is another pet cause. In 2010, Ma joined the
global board of the Nature Conservancy.  “Business is not his first love,” said Orville Schell, a
former dean of the journalism school at the  University of
California  at Berkeley, and a close friend.  Time in U.S.  Ma has been spending time in  San Francisco ’s Bay Area. He
rents a home there, and he’s audited history courses at Berkeley,
where his son is an undergraduate. The time in the U.S. has
affected him.  “I want people to learn what democracy means,” he said.  At Alibaba the company’s 25,000 employees elect
10 representatives who determine how it spends part of its
philanthropy budget. “This is the first test in China of a real
democracy,” Ma said.  The Chinese government is showing an interest in what
Alibaba does. In 2011, after the fraud and counterfeiting
scandals, Ma met with government officials 40 to 50 times.  “I try my best to talk with them and make sure they
understand what we are doing,” he said.  Ma also wants the world to know that he takes antipiracy
efforts seriously. Alibaba hired James Mendenhall, a top lawyer
in the George W. Bush administration, as its Washington lobbyist,
and Taobao says it removed 63 million pirated products last year.
In December, the U.S. Trade Representative acknowledged that
Taobao is making “significant efforts” to expunge the fakes.
Tmall specializes in authentic, branded goods.  Competition Challenge  The looming challenge for Ma and Alibaba is competition.
China’s e-commerce market may grow 42 percent this year, to
$173 billion, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. That growth has
global retailers slavering.  In February,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  acquired Shanghai-based
e-commerce site Yihaodian. A group of investors including
 Russia ’s Digital Sky Technologies put $1.5 billion into retailer
360buy Jingdong Mall last year. And on May 24,  Tencent Holdings
Ltd. (700) , Alibaba’s chief competitor, announced plans to invest
$1 billion in its e-commerce unit.  The rivals will be battling uphill, according to Michael Clendenin, managing director of RedTech Advisors in  Shanghai .
Other retailers hold inventory and operate costly delivery
networks. Taobao and Tmall let vendors take care of those low-
margin tasks and instead earn money through storefront fees,
advertisements, and infrastructure support.  “He’s the ultimate winner,” Clendenin said. “In e-
commerce, Jack Ma is the house -- and the house always wins.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bruce Einhorn in  Hong Kong  at 
 beinhorn1@bloomberg.net 
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barrett Sheridan at 
 bsheridan3@bloomberg.net  