-- Chrysler Jeep Fuel-Tank Fire Probe Upgraded by U.S. NHTSA
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-06-14T14:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/chrysler-jeep-fuel-tank-fire-probe-upgraded-by-u-s-nhtsa.html
As many as 5.1 million sport-utility
vehicles made by Chrysler Group LLC, the carmaker run by  Fiat
SpA (F) , will get closer scrutiny from U.S. regulators looking into
about two dozen reports of fires after rear-impact crashes.  The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
upgraded a preliminary  investigation  of Jeep Grand Cherokees and
added Jeep Cherokee and Jeep Liberty models with fuel tanks
behind the rear axle to an engineering analysis, the agency said
today in a website posting. Fires related to rear-impact crashes
in the Grand Cherokees may have caused at least 15 deaths and 46
injuries, the regulator said.  Such upgrades may lead to recalls. Chrysler doesn’t know
how many of the 5.1 million vehicles, some of which were made in
the early 1990s, are still operating, said  David Dillon ,
Chrysler senior manager for regulatory affairs. A recall of 5.1
million vehicles would be among the 10 largest in the U.S.  “With the number of vehicles involved and potential
severity of the problem, this could set Chrysler back
considerably,” Dennis Virag, president of Automotive Consulting
Group in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , said in a telephone interview
today. “The cost to Chrysler could be considerable, and the
cost in terms of reputation would be high” should the probe
lead to a recall, he said.  Chrysler doesn’t think the investigation will end in a
recall, Dillon said.  ‘Very Confident’  “We take these matters very, very seriously,” he said in
a telephone interview. “While we’re very confident that the
data will prove the vehicles are not defective, nor do they
present an unreasonable risk to safety, we are open to working
with the agency.”  The recalls of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  models in 2009 and 2010
over reports of unintended acceleration covered 10 million
vehicles.  Chrysler declined to estimate the cost of a potential
recall for the vehicles being investigated.  “Safety, not cost, is Chrysler Group’s top concern,” Eric
Mayne, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail today. “We
believe the vehicles are safe and that a detailed engineering
analysis will bear that out.”  ‘Modern-Day Pinto’  The Center for Auto Safety, a consumer advocacy group based
in  Washington , has urged Chrysler to better protect the
vehicles’ fuel systems. In a Sept. 1, 2011, letter to Chrysler
Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , the group’s head,
 Clarence Ditlow , called the vehicles “a modern-day Pinto for
soccer moms.”  About 1.5 million  Ford Motor Co. (F)  Pintos were recalled in
the late 1970s because of concerns that rear-end collisions
could spill gasoline and ignite fires.  NHTSA opened its probe into the Chrysler vehicles in
October 2010.  Chrysler analyzed agency crash data in Grand Cherokees
under investigation, along with comparable vehicles made by
other manufacturers, and found no greater incidence of fire
following rear-impact crashes in its vehicles, Dillon said. The
company has received reports of 23 rear-impact crashes involving
fires and knows of two more reported to NHTSA, he said.  The regulator said it found the opposite, that Jeep Grand
Cherokees were more likely to have fuel tanks breached with
subsequent fires in rear-end crashes than were  General Motors
Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Blazer, Ford’s Explorer or Toyota’s 4Runner.  “The  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  does
not comment on open safety defect investigations,” Lynda Tran,
a spokeswoman for the agency, said in an e-mail. “The agency
will share the findings of the investigation upon completion of
its analysis.”  NHTSA’s investigation includes model year 1993 to 2004
Grand Cherokees, model year 1993 to 2001 Cherokees, and 2002 to
2007 Liberty models. In 2005, Chrysler redesigned the vehicles,
increasing the space between the front and rear axles and
placing the fuel tanks there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  