-- Chrysler Names Brown’s Simmons to Board
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-06-14T19:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/chrysler-names-brown-s-simmons-to-board.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker majority owned by  Fiat (F)  SpA, named Brown University
President  Ruth Simmons  to serve on its board, and the  United
Auto Workers  replaced its director.  Simmons, 66, became an independent director effective June
10, according to a company statement. She is the first woman to
serve as a director of Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler
since Lilyan Affinito, whose 10 years on the board ended in
1996. Erickson Perkins replaces former Michigan Governor James Blanchard, 69, as the director serving on behalf of the UAW.  The new board members join as Turin, Italy-based Fiat plans
to boost its 58.5 percent stake in Chrysler after taking control
of the automaker following a government-backed bankruptcy in
June 2009.  Sergio Marchionne , the chief executive officer of
both companies, plans to merge the two by 2014 and boost sales
to more than 100 billion euros ($126 billion) a year.  “Our new board members bring impressive leadership
experience, and their diverse perspectives and counsel will be
of great service as we work toward achieving the financial
targets outlined in our business plan,” Marchionne said in the
statement.  Marchionne, 59, has said Fiat will exercise its option to
buy an additional 3.3 percent stake of the Auburn Hills,
Michigan-based automaker from the UAW’s retiree health-care
trust, which holds 41.5 percent of Chrysler.  The board term for Blanchard, who was appointed by the
Detroit-based union, expired June 10, according to a regulatory
filing. Perkins, 57, has served in the office of UAW President
 Bob King  since July 2010 as director of the union’s strategic
research department, according to Chrysler’s statement.  Board Expanded  Simmons, who also serves on the board of  Texas Instruments
Inc. (TXN) , steps down as president of Brown at the end of this month
after assuming the role in 2001. She will stay with the
Providence,  Rhode Island , university as professor and president
emeriti after stepping down as president. Simmons served as
president of  Smith College  in Northampton Massachusetts, the
largest U.S. women’s college, prior to joining Brown.  The appointments of Simmons and Perkins boost the total
number of directors on Chrysler’s board to nine. Fiat re-
appointed its five members, including Marchionne, who remains
the chairman, according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  