-- Cinedigm Plan Pays Theaters to Get Films Sooner for Video
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-14T13:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/cinedigm-plan-pays-theaters-to-get-films-sooner-for-video.html
Cinedigm Digital Cinema Corp. (CIDM) , a
distributor of small, independent films, is making deals to
grant theater chains a share of home-video revenue if they allow
movies to be shown earlier on consumers’ TV sets, an approach
that may bridge an industry impasse.  Cinedigm, based in Morristown,  New Jersey , and run from  Los
Angeles , has forged revenue-sharing agreements with several
exhibitors covering films and alternative programs such as
concerts and sporting events, Chief Executive Officer Chris McGurk said in an interview, without identifying the chains.  By agreeing to a shorter period than the current three- to
four-month industry standard, cinema chains will get a cut of
the revenue that films make later, McGurk said. For Cinedigm, a
faster move to home-video allows the company to get more mileage
from its theatrical marketing campaigns because consumers will
be more aware of the mostly smaller films when they move to the
home.  “For an exhibitor, it’s a completely new revenue stream
and it’s found money for them,” McGurk said. “There are always
going to be issues, but you’re going to find exhibitors who are
flexible.”  Cinedigm’s move represents a new attempt by movie
distributors to try to recapture some of the revenue that has
been eroded in home video as consumers have shifted away from
DVD purchases to cheaper-priced channels such as pay TV and
Internet streaming.  Independent Outlets  While McGurk sees the plan affecting mostly smaller-budget
movies that are distributed through independent outlets such as
Cinedigm, others see the potential, should the experiment work,
for Hollywood studios to follow suit with larger films.  “If Cinedigm makes it work it definitely becomes a driver
for studios to do the same thing,” said  Eric Wold , a San
Francisco-based analyst with B. Riley & Co. “In the past the
exhibitors have made it pretty clear that if studios get that
window shortened they would want to participate in the revenue”
from home video sales.  Cinedigm is scheduled to report fourth-quarter earnings
after the close of markets today. The company is expected to
report a loss of 13 cents a share on revenue of $18.7 million. A
year earlier it reported a loss of 23 cents a share on sales of
$20.6 million.  Under McGurk, who became chief executive officer in January
2011, Cinedigm is transforming itself from a technology and
finance company to a distributor of digital content to theaters
and to home-entertainment channels. In cinemas, Cinedigm is
pitching its content as entertainment that will bring customers
to the theater on weeknights when most seats are empty.  On-Demand Services  “If Cinedigm can go in there and offer cinema operators
that revenue, they’re going to be more amicable to doing a
variety of things, like releasing the movie through on-demand
services on the same day it opens in theaters,” Wold said.  Cinedigm rose 2.5 percent to $1.59 at 9:47 a.m. in  New York 
trading. The  shares  had gained 13 percent so far this year.  Attempts by studios to get theaters to allow movies to go
out on home video sooner have met with resistance from cinema
chains, which argue that films need long runs in their venues to
maximize sales and that faster home-video release cuts into
revenue because consumers wait to watch the film at home.  In 2010,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  angered European cinema operators
when it announced plans to release “Alice in Wonderland” on
DVD 13 weeks after its theater run. In 2011, cinema chains
complained when  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures ,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Fox,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros . began
releasing movies through  DirecTV (DTV)  for four to six weeks after the
theatrical release. The studios eventually dropped the plan,
which didn’t feature any major hits, citing low demand.  Wide Release  Most recently, Universal Pictures backed down from a
proposal to show “Tower Heist,” which generated $152.9 million
in worldwide ticket sales at the box office, through video-on-
demand services three weeks after wide release, after U.S.
theaters, including  Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK) , refused to
cooperate.  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush Securities in Los
Angeles, said Cinedigm’s approach has limited scalability.  “The exhibitors will gladly let the window shrink if
they’re cut in on some of the revenue, but the studios aren’t
going to do that because they take all of the risk creating the
intellectual property,” Pachter said. “I don’t see this
becoming the model for big studios.”  Distribute Films  For Cinedigm, the model works because it has the means to
digitally distribute films to theaters as well as cable channels
and online services, including  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Hulu LLC, said
Wold, who has a buy rating on the stock.  Cinedigm, which isn’t a filmmaker, typically spends
$500,000 or less to acquire and market a movie, which means it
doesn’t have to generate huge theatrical sales to make money,
according to Wold.  The company released “Battlefield America,” a dance-
competition drama, on June 1 to 188 U.S. theaters, generating
$169,000 in ticket sales. “The Invisible War,” a documentary
about sexual assault in the U.S. military, is scheduled to reach
theaters on June 22. Cinedigm films not yet on the release
schedule include the horror picture “Citadel” and the French
crime thriller “22 Bullets.”  It plans to release eight to 12 small, independent films
over the next 12 months, along with live events, McGurk said.  Cinedigm could best capitalize on distribution of small
films and alternative content by partnering with companies such
as concert promoter  Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV)  to provide a
regular supply of programming, Wold said.  “If you talk to filmmakers now, having additional ways to
get access to theatrical release, it’s like the Holy Grail to
the indie film community,” McGurk said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  