-- Coffee Price Drop Endangers Recovery of Colombian 2013 Crop
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-06-14T18:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/coffee-price-drop-endangers-recovery-of-colombian-2013-crop-2-.html
Colombia , the second-largest
supplier of Arabica coffee beans, said a slump in prices is
putting at risk next year’s recovery in its harvest.  A prolonged drop poses a “serious danger” because some
farmers are losing money at current prices,  Mario Gomez , a
member of the board of  Colombia’s National Federation of Coffee
Growers  for about three decades, said in a telephone interview
from the city of Manizales in the nation’s central coffee-
farming region.  “That’s the death of coffee production,” Gomez said.
“Losses lead to crops being neglected and then abandoned.”  Coffee has declined 16 percent in a month on speculation
supplies will increase from  Brazil , the top producer of Arabica
coffee favored by brewers such as  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  The Colombian
federation’s Chief Executive Officer Luis Munoz forecast last
month that 2013 output may rebound to a five-year high of 9
million bags as disease-resistant crops aid production.  Arabica-coffee futures for September delivery, slid 2
percent to close at $1.5105 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York .  The crop this year, which is being harvested, will be
similar to 2011, Munoz said in May. Last year, the nation’s
production of 7.81 million bags slid to a 35-year low after
above-average rainfall damaged crops. Each bag weighs 60
kilograms (132 pounds).  Weather in coffee-producing regions has been drier this
quarter after an end to the weather system La Nina, Gomez said.
The weather pattern caused an increase in storms that
contributed to the lowest Colombian production since 2009.  A shortage of quality coffee beans after production slid in
Colombia may prompt prices to increase as global demand rises,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  