-- Consumer Prices in U.S. Fell in May by Most in Three Years
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-06-14T12:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/consumer-prices-in-u-s-declined-in-may-by-most-in-three-years.html
The cost of living in the U.S. fell
in May by the most in more than three years as fuel prices
retreated, buttressing Federal Reserve projections that cheaper
commodities will help reduce inflation.  The consumer-price index declined 0.3 percent, more than
forecast and the biggest drop since December 2008, after no
change the prior month, the Labor Department reported today in
Washington. Economists projected a 0.2 percent decrease,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The
so-called core measure, which excludes more volatile food and
energy costs, increased 0.2 percent for a third month.  Cheaper energy costs may provide some relief for Americans
against a backdrop of moderating job and wage gains that has
slowed  consumer spending . With inflation cooling, Fed policy
makers also have more flexibility to take further action to
bolster U.S. economic growth.  “The drop in the headline is encouraging for the Fed
because it shows gasoline prices are less of strain on
consumers’ incomes, which means they can pick up spending in the
summer months,” said Jeffrey Greenberg, an economist at Nomura
Securities International LLC in New York, who correctly forecast
the decline in prices. “Unemployment is the Fed’s big concern.
They aren’t worried about inflation going out of control.”  Estimates from 78 economists ranged from a decrease of 0.6
percent to an increase of 0.2 percent.  Another Labor Department report showed first-time claims
for  jobless benefits  unexpectedly climbed by 6,000 to 386,000 in
the week ended June 9 from a revised 380,000 the prior week that
was more than first estimated. Economists projected claims would
fall to 375,000, according to the median estimate.  Stock Futures  Stock-index futures were little changed after the labor
market figures. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
maturing in September rose 0.1 percent to 1,310.2 at 8:47 a.m.
in  New York .  Consumer prices increased 1.7 percent in the 12 months
ended in May, the smallest 12-month gain since January 2011, the
report showed.  Core prices were up 2.3 percent for year through May,
matching the gains for the 12 months ended in April and March.  The drop in prices allowed Americans to stretch their
paychecks further in May, another Labor Department report showed
today. Hourly earnings adjusted for prices climbed 0.3%, the
biggest increase since April 2010. Real wages were down 0.1
percent over the past 12 months.  Cheaper Fuel  Today’s data showed energy costs decreased 4.3 percent from
a month earlier, the largest decline since December 2008.
Gasoline prices slumped 6.8 percent, and the costs of natural
gas and  fuel oil  also fell.  Compared with May 2011, energy costs fell 3.9 percent, the
first year-over-year decrease since October 2009.  Food costs were unchanged as gains in fruit and vegetables
were offset by cheaper beverages, dairy products and meats.  The increase in the core measure was driven by increases in
costs for shelter, medical care, cars and airfares. Medical care
costs advanced by the most since October.  Shelter costs rose 0.2 percent, and owners’ equivalent rent
increased 0.1 percent. Prices for stays at hotels and motels
climbed 1.8 percent.  Fed policy makers, who said they anticipated the run-up in
energy costs would subside, aim for 2 percent inflation as part
of their dual mandate of stable prices and maximum employment.
Their preferred price gauge, issued by the Commerce Department
and tied to consumer spending, rose 1.8 percent in the 12 months
ended in April, the smallest gain in more than a year.  Fed Officials  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said last week she sees more
scope for easing, while San Francisco Fed President  John
Williams , a voting member of the FOMC this year, called on
policy makers to stand ready to act should the recovery falter.  “Substantial resource slack in U.S. labor and product
markets should continue to restrain inflationary pressures,”
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress’s Joint Economic
Committee last week. With a “subdued” inflation outlook, high
unemployment and “strains in global financial markets,” the
central bank anticipates it will keep its benchmark lending rate
near zero though late 2014, he said.  Labor Department figures showed June 1 that U.S. employers
in May added the fewest workers in a year, further restraining
consumers’ buying power. Average hourly earnings rose 1.7
percent in May from the same month last year, the smallest
increase since December 2010.  Fed Meeting  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which sets the course of
central bank policy, meets in Washington next week. Inflation
below their target gives them more room to ease should they
choose to address the cooling U.S. expansion and the widening
debt crisis in  Europe .  Inflation expectations have “definitely come down,” David Tehle, chief financial officer of  Dollar General Corp. (DG) , said
during a June 4 earnings call. The Goodlettsville, Tennessee-
based dollar-store chain anticipates 0.5 percent inflation for
the full year, compared with 2 percent in the final three months
of 2011, Tehle said.  Dollar General  expects no apparel inflation this year and
sees broad slowing in commodity prices, Chief Executive Officer
 Rick Dreiling  said during the call.  A Labor Department report yesterday showed prices paid to
producers dropped 1 percent in May, the most since July 2009.
Import prices in the U.S., reported June 12, dropped 1 percent.  The CPI is the broadest of the three monthly price measures
from the Labor Department because it includes goods and
services. About 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers
pay for services ranging from medical visits to airline fares
and movie tickets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  