-- Corporate Cash in State Elections Gets U.S. High Court Scrutiny
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/corporate-cash-in-state-elections-gets-u-s-high-court-scrutiny.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  is poised to
reopen the debate over a 2010 ruling that unleashed super-PACs
and left federal elections awash in money from big spenders.  The justices may say as soon as next week whether they will
review, or even overturn, a century-old Montana ban on corporate
campaign spending, a law enacted to stop copper moguls from
buying influence over the state’s politicians.  The court two years ago altered the national political
landscape with its ruling in  Citizens United  v. Federal Election
Commission, which gave companies and unions the right to spend
unlimited sums on elections. Outside spending on federal races
is more than  double  what it was four years ago.  The  Montana  Supreme Court ruled that Citizens United didn’t
apply to its state-level restrictions. The Supreme Court put a
hold on the Montana law in February and now will decide whether
to reverse the state court’s decision immediately or schedule
arguments in the case for later this year.  “The stay is evidence of some appetite of the court to
overturn the Montana ruling, or at least revisit Citizens
United,” said  Paul Ryan , a lawyer for the Campaign Legal Center
in Washington, which backs stricter campaign-finance rules.  The court is scheduled to consider taking up the Montana
case at a private conference today, and the justices may say as
early as June 18 how they will handle it.  Court Barometer  The Montana case will be a barometer of how expansive the
Supreme Court intended its 5-4 ruling on Citizens United in
January 2010 to be. The case enabled unlimited spending by
corporations and organized labor on federal elections as long
there is no direct coordination with candidates.  At the time of the Citizens United ruling, 22 states had
laws banning or restricting spending by corporations and unions,
according to a report this month by the Corporate Reform
Coalition, made up of 75 organizations and individuals from
good-governance groups, environmental groups and organized
labor. Those states either repealed their limits or declared
that their laws are unenforceable, according to the report.  The exception was Montana, which chose to continue
enforcing its corporate money ban.  Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  wrote in February that the
Montana case provides the court a chance to reconsider Citizens
United “in light of the huge sums of money deployed to buy
candidates’ allegiance” in the two election cycles since the
case was decided.  Ginsburg dissented in the Citizens United case. She
nonetheless voted to block the Montana law, saying, “Lower
courts are bound to follow this court’s decisions until they are
withdrawn or modified.”  Spending Doubles  Outside organizations -- including nonprofits, which don’t
have to disclose donors, and super political action committees,
which do -- have spent almost $144 million on 2012 federal
elections. That’s more than twice what outside groups had spent
in the 2008 campaign, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics in  Washington , which tracks spending.  Sheila Krumholz , executive director of the center,
estimates that all federal campaigns in 2012 will cost at least
$6 billion, about $700 million more than four years ago.  Among the notable donors, casino magnate  Sheldon Adelson ,
chairman of the Las Vegas Sands Corp., and his family gave $21.5
million to a super-PAC supporting the failed Republican
presidential candidacy of former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich .
 Bill Maher , the comedian and television personality, gave $1
million to a similar group backing Obama.  Horror Stories  “The horror stories have simply not come true,” said
Bradley Smith, a co-founder of the  Center for Competitive
Politics , an Alexandria, Virginia-based group that opposes
campaign-finance limits. “We thought there would be more
spending, and there is. Spending increases voter awareness and
interest.”  Such spending on state and local races -- which include
judgeships, ballot measures and gubernatorial and mayoral posts
-- is more difficult to tally, in part because of differing
disclosure requirements and deadlines.  The National Institute on Money in State Politics, a
campaign-finance research  group  based in Helena, Montana, found
in a sample of 20 states that spending by groups other than
candidates rose to $139 million in 2010 from $65 million in
2008.  Montana Governor Brian Schweitzer, a Democrat, wrote in a
June 3  New York Times (NYT)  editorial that the effects of the U.S.
Supreme Court’s decision to temporarily block the state’s ban on
corporate money “are already being felt here.”  “The ink wasn’t even dry when corporate front groups
started funneling lots of corporate cash into our legislative
races,” he wrote.  Majority to Hold  Lawyers on both sides of the corporate-limits issue said
the Supreme Court probably hasn’t concluded that it erred when
it decided Citizens United. Those lawyers predicted the court
will either reverse the Montana ban outright or do so after
hearing arguments later this year.  “The smart money is the Citizens United majority will hold
here, and the court will peevishly brush off the challenge from
the Montana Supreme Court,” said Jamin Raskin, a professor of
constitutional law at  American University (NAUH)  and a Maryland state
senator who signed a brief in support of the state court’s
ruling.  Because the Supreme Court is close to issuing a
controversial ruling on President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
policy, the justices might decide to schedule full arguments in
the Montana case so as to postpone a ruling on another
inflammatory issue until after the Nov. 6 elections, Smith said.  Political Calculation  “That would be purely a political calculation,” he said
of the possibility of oral arguments, “not because they want to
reverse Citizens United.”  Full arguments would be held after the justices reconvene
in October for the next term.  Montana’s decision to keep enforcing its corporate money
ban prompted a lawsuit in March 2010 by two nonprofit
corporations and a family-owned business that say they want to
make independent expenditures on state and local candidates.  “This case involves disrespect for the Constitution, the
rule of law, and this court,” lawyers for the corporations
 wrote  in a petition asking the Supreme Court to step in.  Montana Attorney General Steve Bullock, in his response,
wrote, “as Montana’s history attests, corporate independent
expenditures can corrupt.”  Big Copper  Montanans enacted the Corrupt Practices Act of 1912 by
ballot initiative, after copper corporations, including Anaconda
Copper Mining Co., had dominated state politics for years,
according to court documents filed by the state. Anaconda was
purchased in 1977 by Atlantic Richfield Co.  The state argues that local and state elections are
especially susceptible to corruption that results from corporate
spending on campaigns.  The Montana law bars any direct election spending by
corporations, including incorporated interest groups.
Corporations must set up a traditional PAC, which can solicit
voluntary contributions from employees. The committees are
subject to contribution limits and disclosure requirements.  Should the Supreme Court take up the case, it would test
the 2010 majority’s statement that corporate campaign
expenditures “do not give rise to corruption or the appearance
of corruption.” That’s an important conclusion because the
court has allowed campaign-finance restrictions as a means of
fighting corruption.  Supporting Montana  Critics of the Citizens United ruling say the court
shouldn’t preclude the possibility that independent spending
might create a climate of corruption.  “The Montana case forces the court to decide whether the
court really meant that corporate spending can never corrupt,”
said Raskin, the American University professor.  New York  and 21 other states and the  District of Columbia 
filed a brief in support of Montana’s law. The states called
campaign-finance restrictions on corporations necessary “to
safeguard their democratic processes.”  Citizens United, a non-profit group that successfully sued
the  Federal Election Commission  and has backed Republican
candidates, said in a brief in support of the Montana businesses
that every state court is bound by the Citizens United ruling.  “The First Amendment is a bedrock protection of
fundamental rights that restrains government action at all
levels,” the group  wrote .  The challengers include American Tradition Partnership
Inc., described on its website as opposed to “environmental
extremism,” the Montana Shooting Sports Association Inc., a
gun-rights and firearms-safety group, and Champion Painting
Inc., a painting and drywall business with a single shareholder.  The case is American Tradition Partnership v. Attorney
General for the  State of Montana , 11-1179.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  