-- China Productivity Jolt Urged as Growth Forecasts Cut: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-14T08:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/credit-suisse-sees-china-weak-for-years-as-forecast-cut-1-.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Deutsche
Bank AG reduced forecasts for  China ’s growth this year as
weakness in exports and in investment drag on the world’s
second-biggest economy.  Credit Suisse cut its estimate to 7.7 percent from 8
percent, while Deutsche Bank lowered its forecast to 7.9 percent
from 8.2 percent, according to e-mailed research notes received
today. The predictions indicate the weakest growth since 1999
and compare with a 9.2 percent expansion last year.  Corporate profits are falling, deflation is looming and the
nation faces years of “weak” growth, Credit Suisse economist
Tao Dong said. To unleash productivity gains and restore the
economy’s strength, the government should break monopolies in
banking and utilities, open the services industry, and
deregulate interest rates and the  exchange rate , he said.  “Investment is unlikely to see a meaningful rebound in the
foreseeable future,” Hong Kong-based Tao said. “Government
stimulus could moderate the downside risks to growth and perhaps
cushion the down-cycle, but we do not see it providing
sustainable upward growth momentum.”  The cuts to the forecasts and a downgrade in Spain’s credit
rating by Moody’s Investors Service yesterday sent Asian stocks
lower. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 0.5 percent as of 5:19
p.m. in  Tokyo .  Rate Decisions  In South Korea today, central bank Governor Kim Choong Soo
reiterated his concerns about the risks posed by excessive
global liquidity.  Elsewhere in the Asia Pacific region, policy makers in  New
Zealand  and the Philippines kept their benchmark interest rates
unchanged. India’s inflation quickened more than estimated in
May as food and fuel prices surged with the wholesale-price
index rising 7.55 percent from a year earlier, after climbing
7.23 percent in April.  Germany  said wholesale prices rose at a slower pace in May
from a year earlier. The  European Central Bank  will publish its
monthly report for June while the European Union’s statistics
office will release labor costs data for last and revised
estimates for consumer-price gains in the euro-region last month.  In the U.S., a report today may show the cost of living in
the U.S. fell in May for the first time in two years as fuel
prices retreated, giving the Federal Reserve more room to
stimulate growth. The  consumer price index , the broadest of
three gauges issued by Labor Department each month, fell 0.2
percent in May after no change in April, a Bloomberg survey
showed. The Bloomberg  Consumer Confidence  Index will also be
released today.  Ratings Downgrade  Spain ’s rating cut yesterday underscored the threat to
Asian exporters from Europe’s debt crisis.  “We expect China to be in a weak growth cycle for the next
several years featuring a weak credit cycle, weak export cycle
and weak property cycle,” Credit Suisse’s Tao said. An emerging
“deflationary force” may lead to sharp declines in nominal
gross domestic product and corporate profits, he said, adding
that the economy is quickly losing momentum.  “Looking back in history, almost every 10 years, China has
had one top-down structural reform to unleash improvements in
productivity,” Tao said.  A looming once-a-decade power transfer to a younger
generation of Communist Party leaders, already complicated by
the ouster of Chongqing party boss  Bo Xilai , has the potential
to delay decisions on reforms.  Banking Monopoly  In line with Tao’s prescription, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in
April that the government needs to break a banking “monopoly”
of a few big lenders that make easy profits. In other steps, the
central bank this month loosened limits on banks’ abilities to
set  interest rates  after widening the band for the  yuan ’s daily
moves in April.  Fixed-asset investment excluding rural households rose 20
percent in the first five months, according to the statistics
bureau. That was the weakest gain for a January-May period since
2001, according to previously released data. Growth in
industrial output and retail sales trailed forecasts in May.  Credit Suisse cut its full-year inflation forecast to 3.1
percent from a previous projection of 3.7 percent. Over the next
12 months, the government may cut bank reserve requirements
three times, lending rates twice, and the deposit rate once, Tao
said.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, James Mayger, Shamim Adam  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  