-- Credit Suisse Urged by Central Bank to Boost Capital
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-06-14T12:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/credit-suisse-urged-by-central-bank-to-boost-capital.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  needs a
“marked increase” in capital this year to prepare the bank for
a possible worsening of  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, the
Swiss central bank said. The shares fell as much as 11 percent.  “For Credit Suisse, given the low starting point and the
risks in the environment, it is essential that it already
substantially expand its loss-absorbing capital base during the
current year,” the  Swiss National Bank  said in its annual
financial stability  report  today. The central bank, which also
recommended  UBS AG (UBSN)  boost capital, said improvements can be
achieved by suspending dividend payments or selling new shares
in addition to the banks’ plans for cutting assets.  This is the first time since the SNB began publishing the
financial stability report in 2003 that it singled out Credit
Suisse as needing a bigger improvement in capital than UBS and
putting a timeframe on its recommendation. To assess the banks’
capital adequacy, the SNB is evaluating risks from a “very
severe but possible scenario” of a worsening sovereign-debt
crisis. Potential losses for the two banks in such a situation
would be “substantial,” the central bank said.  “Credit Suisse’s over-optimism on organic earnings means
they are now at the low end of all global wholesale banks on a
Basel III basis,” said Huw van Steenis, a London-based analyst
at Morgan Stanley with an “equal-weight” rating on the bank.
To boost  capital ratios  the bank is likely to shed “far more”
risk-weighted assets at the investment bank, as suspending
dividend “would not be substantial enough in the adverse
scenario.”  Shares Slump  Credit Suisse, the second-largest Swiss bank,  fell  1.96
Swiss francs, or 10 percent, to 17.04 francs by 2:01 p.m. in
Zurich trading, the  most  since December 2008. UBS, Switzerland’s
biggest bank,  declined  as much as 4.8 percent, and was 2 percent
lower at 10.93 francs.  “It’s up to the management of Credit Suisse to respond to
our encouragement,” SNB Vice President Jean-Pierre Danthine
said at a press conference in Bern today when asked about the
drop in the share price. “Credit Suisse’s plan corresponds to
our assessment, but we’d like to see acceleration.”  The SNB’s stress scenario assumes that the euro area falls
into a “deep recession,” which spreads to other European
countries including  Switzerland  and to the U.S. This could be
triggered by a disorderly default of several smaller peripheral
countries in the euro area, the central bank said.  Capital Levels  “Without a doubt we were negatively surprised by the speed
with which the SNB wants to see Credit Suisse reduce its capital
deficit,” Derek de Vries, a London-based analyst at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, said in a note. “We can only assume that
the worsening macro environment has caused a heightened sense of
urgency among Swiss policy makers. This is undeniably negative
news and increases the probability of a capital increase.”  Credit Suisse’s loss-absorbing capital, comprised of common
equity and contingent capital that converts to equity at a 7
percent trigger, amounted to about 5.9 percent of risk-weighted
assets under Basel III rules at the end of March, the SNB said.
That ratio stood at 7.5 percent for UBS, it said. By 2019, both
banks need to boost these ratios to at least 13 percent.  “When measured according to the new Basel III regulations,
the capitalization of the Swiss big banks -- in particular
Credit Suisse -- is below average for international big banks,”
the SNB said in the report. “An above-average capitalization
level would be appropriate, given the importance of the big
banks for the Swiss economy and for financial stability.”  The central bank didn’t identify the group of international
lenders it used for comparison, or their average level of
capitalization.  Selling Shares  “We conclude that Credit Suisse will be forced to raise
substantial amounts of dilutive common equity by the SNB,”
Andrew Lim, a London-based analyst at Espirito Santo Investment
Bank with a “sell” rating on the stock said in a note. UBS
will probably be able to boost its common equity ratio to 8.9
percent at the end of this year and to 12.7 percent at the end
of 2013, he estimated.  Credit Suisse would need an additional 4 billion francs to
5 billion francs in capital to get above a 7.5 percent ratio and
close the gap with UBS or cut more assets, de Vries estimated.
The bank may generate about 2 billion francs through earnings
between the end of March and end of the year, he said.  Credit Suisse “has been at the forefront” in adapting to
regulatory change and attaches “highest priority to an
industry-leading capitalization,” the Zurich-based lender said
in a statement today. The bank “has also established
transparency on its plan for both building up common equity
through retaining earnings and further asset reduction,” Credit
Suisse said.  Dividend Restraint  The Swiss government and the central bank had to prop up
UBS in 2008 by letting it spin off risky assets into an SNB
fund. UBS’s writedowns and losses from the credit crisis totaled
more than $57 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
UBS’s  losses  amounted to more than 3 percent of its net balance
sheet total, the SNB said, while loss-absorbing capital made up
about 1.7 percent of total assets at Credit Suisse and 2.7
percent at UBS at the end of March.  UBS “has built its capital base faster than any of its
peers over the past two years,” the Zurich-based bank said in a
statement today. “Our current strategy is designed to ensure we
continue to build on our already industry leading capital
position,” UBS said.  Retaining Earnings  Both banks have said they plan to boost capital ratios by
retaining earnings and cutting risk-weighted assets. The SNB
said today UBS should continue with its plan, including in
particular a policy of dividend restraint, while Credit Suisse
needs to “accelerate” its capital build-up.  UBS, which hasn’t paid a cash  dividend  since 2007 as it
sought to rebuild capital after losses, paid shareholders 10
centimes a share this year. Credit Suisse has had a dividend
every year since the bank was founded in 1856, Chairman Urs Rohner told shareholders at the annual meeting in April. Credit
Suisse paid a  dividend  of 75 centimes a share in May, while
investors chose to receive 48 percent of the payments in shares
instead of cash.  “Paying a dividend this year may not have been such a good
idea for Credit Suisse,” said  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based
analyst at Kepler Capital Markets who has a “reduce” rating on
the bank. “Credit Suisse may not be able to pay a dividend for
2012. But I think forcing it now to sell shares is neither a
good idea nor is needed.”  The central bank also recommended that the banks improve
transparency on capital by publishing Basel III capital ratios
and risk-weighted assets according to internal models as well as
according to the Basel standardized approach every quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 