-- Torres Helps Spain Rout Ireland at Euro 2012; Croatia Ties Italy
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-06-14T22:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/croatia-rallies-to-tie-italy-1-1-in-euro-2012-group-c-match.html
Fernando Torres  had two goals as
 Spain  routed Ireland 4-0 to move into a tie atop Group C at the
European soccer championship with Croatia, which rallied to draw
1-1 against Italy.  David Silva  and Cesc Fabregas also scored last night in
defending champion Spain’s win in Gdansk, Poland. Mario
Mandzukic’s 72nd-minute score earned Croatia the point with
Italy in Poznan.  Spain and Croatia have four points ahead of their meeting
in the final round of group matches on June 18. The top two
teams in each group advance to the quarterfinals.  “After two matches this is a really good situation,”
Croatia coach Slaven Bilic said on UEFA’s website. “Six points
would have been better, but this is pretty good.”  Italy  has two points and Ireland, which was eliminated by
its second straight loss, has none. They meet in the final game,
with the Italians still in contention to advance.  Today, co-host Ukraine plays France in Donetsk and England
meets Sweden in Kiev in the second round of games in Group D.  In Gdansk, Torres scored twice in his return to the lineup
after starting on the bench for the 1-1 draw with Italy as
manager Vicente del Bosque elected to play the opening game
without a recognized striker.  “You have to enjoy every moment,” Torres said on UEFA’s
website. “I had the luck to start the match and score goals and
enjoy it with the team.”  Spain Domination  Spain dominated with 66 percent of possession and had 26
shot attempts, 20 on target, compared to six for Ireland, which
becomes the first team eliminated from the 16-team tournament.  “For the vast majority we were chasing shadows,” Irish
midfielder Keith Andrews told ITV. “We just couldn’t get near
them.”  Torres needed four minutes to put Spain in front as he
picked up the loose ball after  Richard Dunne ’s tackle on Silva
at the edge of the area, moved to his right and fired a shot by
goalkeeper Shay Given.  Given also made saves against Silva,  Andres Iniesta ,  Xavi Hernandez  and Alvaro Arbeloa to keep the Irish within a goal at
halftime.  Silva doubled the lead four minutes after the break as he
got the rebound after Given saved Torres’s shot and slid a left-
footed effort through three defenders into the net.  Torres added his second goal in the 70th minute as he took
a pass from Silva between two defenders and slotted past Given.
Fabregas replaced Torres in the 74th minute and closed the
scoring nine minutes later by powering a shot past Given after a
short corner kick.  Mandzukic’s Third  In Poznan, Mandzukic’s goal wiped out a first-half score
from  Andrea Pirlo . It was the striker’s third goal to tie
Germany’s  Mario Gomez  and Russia’s Alan Dzagoev for the
tournament lead.  “We can get through,” Italy coach Cesare Prandelli said
on UEFA’s website. “We are mathematically still in it, but we
have missed an opportunity here.”  Italy controlled play early as  Mario Balotelli  took a pass
from Emanuele Giaccherini, turned near the penalty spot and shot
wide of goal after three minutes. Claudio Marchisio fired over
goal and Balotelli’s shot was punched away by Stipe Pletikosa.  Italy goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon went down to grab Darijo Srna’s cross at the near post and also caught Ivan Perisic’s
header.  Antonio Cassano  and Balotelli shot wide and Pletikosa then
made two saves off Marchisio after the midfielder turned Srna in
the area. Italy took the lead in the 39th minute when Pirlo
curled a free kick between Pletikosa and the near post.  Croatia  started quickly in the second half as Luka Modric
forced a save from Buffon in the opening minute, then sent a
shot over goal. Balotelli also shot over from just outside the
area after finding space.  Croatia drew even with 18 minutes remaining as Ivan Strinic
lofted a cross from the left for Mandzukic, who knocked it down
and fired a shot in off the right post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 