-- Dark Pool Restrictions Sought in House Committee by NYSE, Nasdaq
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-06-14T22:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/dark-pool-restrictions-sought-in-house-committee-by-nyse-nasdaq.html
NYSE Euronext and  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ) , the biggest owners of American  stock exchanges , are urging
U.S. legislators to support changes to rules that caused a
proliferation of broker-run markets that draw orders away from
public venues.  Dark pools and brokers should be required to provide better
prices than those available on exchanges or offer quotes
publicly at the best levels, the companies said in a written
presentation to staff of the House Committee on Financial
Services that Bloomberg obtained. Lawmakers are holding  hearings 
on the structure of U.S. markets in  Washington  on June 20. Dark
pools, unlike exchanges, are private venues that execute orders
without displaying bids and offers in advance.  The Securities and Exchange Commission should explain why
Regulation ATS, approved in 1998 to integrate alternative venues
that compete with exchanges listing stocks into the broader
marketplace, “remains sound policy,”  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and Nasdaq
OMX said. That rule and another set of changes the SEC approved
in 2005 overhauled trading and led to the creation of more than
four dozen venues that compete with the  New York  Stock Exchange
and Nasdaq. Executives at both companies have pushed for changes
to how dark pools operate over the last three years.  ‘Macroeconomic Issue’  “Too much fragmentation and darkness can undermine
investors’ perception of a fair and orderly market,” the New
York-based exchange operators wrote. “This can become a
macroeconomic issue if investors lose confidence and exit the
market.” They also said that “investors would be better served
by a unified model that regulates markets and trading systems
according to their function rather than their status.”  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for NYSE Euronext, and Joseph Christinat of Nasdaq OMX declined to comment.  The NYSE and Nasdaq have seen their share of  trading  in the
securities they list drop to less than 27 percent as venues
providing cheaper costs and more flexibility about how orders
are executed gained traction, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Dark pools and brokers use stock prices established
by exchanges when they match buy and sell requests. Almost one-
third of U.S. equities volume traded away from exchanges this
year, Bloomberg data show.  Dark Volume  Dark pools accounted for 13.6 percent of U.S. equities
volume in April, according to data compiled by Rosenblatt
Securities Inc. Crossfinder, owned by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) ,
was the largest, trading 126 million shares daily, followed by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Sigma X, Knight Capital Group Inc.’s
Knight Link system and Barclays LX, owned by Barclays Plc, the
May 31 report said.  The average execution size for all except four of the U.S.
alternative trading venues, or ATSs, tracked by Rosenblatt was
less than 300 shares, comparable to what occurs on exchanges,
according to the report.  The exchanges said in their presentation that block trades
should be exempt from their policy recommendations about changes
to dark pools.  “The problem exchanges confront is pretty simple,” Justin Schack, managing director for market structure analysis at
Rosenblatt, said in a phone interview. “Volumes have come down
and the piece of the pie the exchanges have is getting smaller
at the same time. If you’re a public company like NYSE Euronext
and Nasdaq OMX and a sizable portion of your revenues come from
transactions in U.S. equities, that’s not good.”  Greg Tusar, head of U.S. electronic trading at Goldman
Sachs Execution and Clearing, a unit of New York-based  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said it’s important to distinguish between
“potential business model pressures” and issues related to the
structure of the U.S. equities market.  ‘Functional Similarities’  “Increasingly broker-dealers are bringing together buyers
and sellers in electronic environments, either as ATSs or market
makers,” he said in a phone interview. “They have functional
similarities to what exchanges do. However, it’s important to
recognize that exchanges and broker-dealers operate in different
regulatory structures with different responsibilities. Broker-
dealers have customers and best-execution obligations to those
customers, while exchanges do not.”  Exchange executives have said they’re at a disadvantage to
dark pools they compete with since they must publish their rules
publicly and seek SEC  permission  for changes, while alternative
venues can implement new offerings more rapidly.  ‘Last Resort’  Dark pools can also allow users to trade with or avoid
certain types of participants, which isn’t permitted for
exchanges. The flexibility brokers have has helped them take
volume from exchanges and has resulted in public markets
becoming destinations of “last resort,” the exchanges’ report
to the House financial services committee said.  Dark pools, human traders at banks, and wholesalers, a
category of market makers that executes orders for individual
investors sent to the firm from retail brokers, provide
competition to exchanges,  Jamie Selway , managing director and
head of liquidity management at  Investment Technology Group Inc. (ITG) 
in New York, said in a phone interview. Policy changes would
reduce the trading options available to investors, he said.  Exchange Discipline  ITG’s Posit venue traded about 46 million shares a day on
average in April, according to the Rosenblatt report.  “The nice thing about competition to exchange monopolies
is that it disciplines them,” Selway said. “Competition can
come from other exchanges like Bats or Direct Edge, or brokers
who compete with exchanges as liquidity providers, either as
dark pools or as internalizers committing capital.” Wholesalers
are a type of firm that internalizes orders away from exchanges.  Selway is on the board of the two exchanges owned by Bats
Global Markets Inc. in Lenexa,  Kansas . Direct Edge Holdings LLC
in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , and Bats compete for orders with
exchanges and dark pools.  Regulation ATS, implemented 13 years ago, may warrant a
“facelift” including more transparency about trades in dark
pools, Selway said. He added that exchanges also have advantages
such as revenue from the sale of market data and lower clearing
costs than brokers.  “Raising the bar a little bit for ATSs and making it
easier for exchanges to pass rules isn’t an unreasonable
position,” Tusar said. Goldman Sachs has “advocated for some
time to have ATS filings be made public,” he said.  ‘Excessive Fragmentation’  While competition among exchanges and other venues lowers
costs for investors, “excessive fragmentation” increases what
they pay, NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX said, without providing
information about fees or higher prices. A complex equities
marketplace “requires a greater reliance on technology” and
creates more risk across all venues, the companies said.  The so-called flash crash on May 6, 2010, showed that
“liquidity evaporates quickly when it is spread too thinly
across the numerous lit and dark market centers operating in the
U.S.,” the companies said. A mutual fund company’s automated
sale of futures without regard to price set off the 9.2 percent
intraday plunge in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) , according
to a 2010 report from the SEC and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.  Nasdaq OMX Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  declined
an invitation to testify at the June 20 hearing on market
structure, according to two people with knowledge of the plans.
 William O’Brien , CEO of Direct Edge, will participate, according
to Jim Gorman, a spokesman for the company. Executives from NYSE
Euronext, Getco LLC, Invesco Ltd. and Knight have also received
invitations to testify, according to one of the people, who
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about the planning.  Botched IPOs  Exchanges caused two botched initial public offerings in
the last three months that spooked investors.  Nasdaq’s mishandling of orders in the Facebook Inc. IPO on
May 18 led to at least one investor lawsuit against the exchange
operator. Industry losses tied to the malfunctions were close to
$200 million, Knight CEO Thomas Joyce said June 7. Bats withdrew
its own IPO on March 23 after it couldn’t get its first trade to
be published properly. The CEOs of both companies faulted their
own exchanges for the problems.  Increasing the ability of investors’ buy and sell orders to
come together on exchanges helps produce prices that are more
accurate, Rosenblatt’s Schack said. The movement of volume away
from exchanges may be a concern for some brokers and market
participants, he said.  “It’s very difficult to tell at what point price discovery
gets damaged,” Schack said. “If it’s OK that 30 percent of
volume is done off-exchange, would 40 or 50 percent be bad? The
problem for market participants and regulators is that if you
don’t know where that threshold is, you may not know until it’s
too late and price discovery has deteriorated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  