-- Derivatives Show Money-Market Stress Rising With Spanish Yields
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-06-14T13:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/derivatives-show-money-market-stress-rising-with-spanish-yields.html
Forward markets signaled increased
stress in the money markets as traders raise bets for the gap
between the London interbank offered rate and federal funds as
 Spain ’s bond yields rose to a euro-era record after the
country’s credit rating was cut to one level above junk.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, a gauge of
banks’ reluctance to lend, rose to 36 basis points from 34.9
basis points yesterday, according to the second rolling three
month so-called FRA/OIS spread.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  was  0.46785 percent, where it has held since June
1, according to the British Bankers’ Association. The spot
Libor-OIS spread was unchanged at 29.8 basis points.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the term
of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, widened to 31.25 basis points from 30.44 basis points.
The gap is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking
sector credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations
for dollar Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors
in many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market increased. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 56.7 basis points below Euribor, compared to 54.7
basis points below yesterday.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, held steady.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was
little changed at 38 basis points.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
fell $14.7 billion to $1.014 trillion in the week ended June 6,
according to Federal Reserve data. That was the first
contraction in six weeks.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was minus 38.3 basis points, from minus
36.7 basis points yesterday. A negative swap price indicates
investors are willing to receive reduced interest payments on
the yen they lend in order to obtain the needed financing in
dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  