-- Detroit May Send No Black Representatives to Congress
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/detroit-may-send-no-black-representatives-to-congress.html
Detroit’s population loss may leave
 Michigan  without a black representative in Congress for the
first time since 1955, a shift that would punctuate the erosion
of African-American power in a region with a history of racial
friction.  New boundaries pushed Detroit’s two congressional districts
deeper into the suburbs because the city of 713,000 lost one-
quarter of its population since 2000. As a result, U.S.
representatives John Conyers Jr. and Hansen Clarke may be ousted
by white Democratic challengers in districts where blacks are a
smaller majority than before.  “It’s a more than 50 percent likelihood it will happen,”
said Eric Foster, 40, a political consultant in Troy, Michigan,
whose clients are mostly Democrats. He said many black voters
who moved from  Detroit  to suburbs care more about economic
issues than about keeping blacks in office.  A city that in 1973 elected Coleman Young as its first
black mayor amid simmering anger after a devastating 1967 race
riot -- and that has had black mayors ever since -- is losing
its place as Michigan’s center of African-American influence,
Foster said.  Eighty-three percent of Detroit’s population is black
compared with 14 percent of Michigan’s, according to the 2010
U.S. Census. While Detroit’s population dropped, black
populations increased in most communities near the city,
according to data from the Southeast Michigan Council of
Governments.  Rosa Parks  New districts in other U.S. cities have given black
candidates less advantage than in the past 30 years, said
Jocelyn Benson, a professor specializing in election law at
 Wayne State University  in Detroit. Court rulings on the federal
Voting Rights Act, more black candidates and blacks voting for
white candidates have diluted the voting bloc in  California ,
 Texas  and  New York , she said.  Detroit’s redistricting has symbolic importance, she said.
Conyers, 83, is a founder of the Congressional Black Caucus, and
his support for civil and voting rights is part of the city’s
heritage of empowerment, Benson said. He has served in Congress
since 1965.  Rosa Parks, whose refusal to surrender her seat on a
Montgomery,  Alabama , bus made her an icon of the civil-rights
movement, moved to Detroit and lived there until her death in
2005. At one time, the former seamstress worked for Conyers’
congressional office.  ‘Unique Position’  “It is possible for a white candidate to represent
multiracial districts like Detroit’s,” Benson said. “But
unquestionably, Detroit occupies a unique position in the civil-
rights world and the history of our country.”  Conyers’s 46 years in the  House of Representatives  are
second only to fellow Michigan Democrat John Dingell’s 56 years.  In Conyers’s new 13th district, blacks account for about 56
percent of voting-age residents. They make up 57 percent of
Clarke’s 14th district, according to a state legislative
analysis. Both are heavily Democratic, so winning the Aug. 7
primary virtually assures a victory in November.  Conyers’s main white primary challenger is state Senator
Glenn Anderson, 58, a former autoworker from Westland who says
Conyers is complacent and has done little for Detroit’s economy.  “He deserves credit for what he did for civil rights 30 or
40 years ago,” Anderson said in a telephone interview. “That’s
not what we’re talking about now.”  He said he’s courting Detroit voters who want a more
responsive congressman.  Dividing Detroit  Two black state legislators -- Senator Bert Johnson, 38, of
 Highland Park  and Representative Shanelle Jackson, 31, of
Detroit -- may divide Detroit votes with Conyers in the primary.  Conyers said the struggle for  voting rights  didn’t end 30
years ago, as shown by a federal suit against  Florida ’s plan to
remove noncitizens from voter rolls, and  South Carolina ’s
blocked attempt to require residents to show photo
identification to cast a ballot.  Conyers said he must connect with voters in suburbs that
are more racially integrated.  “I’m not taking any chances, I’m campaigning with the
understanding we have a volatile electorate,” he said in a
telephone interview.  Conyers said the White House is hoping he can deliver votes
for President  Barack Obama  in November. His seniority in the
House probably would again make Conyers a committee chairman if
Democrats regain control.  Imprisoned Wife  Conyers’s campaign, however, is bedeviled by his wife,
Monica Conyers, 47, who is serving a three-year sentence after
pleading guilty in 2009 to accepting bribes in return for her
vote for a sludge-hauling contract as a member of the Detroit
City Council.  Bonnie Hunt, 61, a white Westland voter interviewed last
week at her garage sale, said she knew little of Anderson though
would vote for him because of Monica Conyers. The congressman
was not implicated in the crime and has refused to discuss it.  Elaine Harris, 55, a black Westland voter, said Conyers’s
reputation was hurt, adding, “You can’t have total denial of
what your wife is doing.”  Harris, a retired state employee, said it’s important
Detroit is represented by fair and honest politicians,
regardless of race.  Susan Rock, 57, a white lawyer from Redford Township, said
she’ll vote for Conyers because of his record, and said, “he’s
interested in the little guy, the working person.”  Twisted District  The other incumbent, Clarke, is a House freshman who’s part
black and part Indian, a lawyer and artist who says he’s an
antidote to self-serving politicians. The redrawn district where
he’s running was chosen as one of five ugliest in the U.S. by
Roll Call because of its geographic contortions across two
counties. Republican legislators drew it to seek out a majority
of black voters, and to require U.S. Representative  Gary Peters  to either quit or run against a fellow Democrat.  Clarke faces four Democratic challengers, including Peters,
who is white. Peters had more than twice as much campaign cash 
on hand -- $1.2 million -- than did Clarke at the end of March,
according to Federal Election Commission records. Peters’s 
suburban district was carved up and scattered among four new 
ones as Michigan, the only state to lose population from 2000-
2010, had to give up one congressional seat.  From There  Clarke, 55, said in a telephone interview that he was
helped by  food stamps  as a child and young adult, and wants to
lessen student-loan debt and boost employment in Detroit, where
he said his personal experiences makes him a better choice.  “I can go to Detroit and say, ’You have to take
responsibility for yourselves. You can’t blame somebody,’” he
said. “I can say that because I’m from the neighborhood.”  Two other black candidates are Southfield Mayor Brenda Lawrence and former state representative Mary Waters, who in
2010 was sentenced to a year of probation in federal court for
her role in a Southfield bribery scheme.  Peters, a former financial adviser and state senator, is
from Bloomfield Township. He’s racked up endorsements from
Detroit Mayor Dave Bing, the Michigan AFL-CIO and a raft of
ministers.  Peters said he has a record advocating for middle-class
families and helping the Detroit-based  auto industry . Among the
cities Peters represents is Pontiac, which is 52 percent black,
according to the  U.S. Census .  “All that matters to people is they have the most
effective representative for them in  Washington ,” Peters said
in a telephone interview. “That’s what this campaign is
about.”  Losing Detroit’s two congressional seats to white
candidates would be devastating, said Irma Clark-Coleman, 75,
who is black and represents part of Detroit on the Wayne County
Commission.  “It means we would have no one there in Washington
speaking for issues that black people face on health care,
voting rights, jobs, the economy,” Clark-Coleman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, MI 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Merelman at  