-- Dickey Sets Mets’ Record for Scoreless Innings; Yankees Win
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/dickey-sets-mets-record-for-scoreless-innings-yankees-win.html
R. A. Dickey pitched a one-hitter in
a 9-1 victory over the Tampa Bay Rays and set a  New York  Mets
record by not allowing a run for 32 2/3 innings.  The Mets said they will appeal the ruling on the infield
single by B.J. Upton in the first inning that prevented Dickey
from getting a no-hitter 12 days after Johan Santana had the
first in franchise history June 1. Manager Terry Collins wants
the decision changed to an error, saying  David Wright  wasn’t
able to field the ball cleanly with his bare hand.  “We’re probably not going to win it,” Collins said. “But
what the heck? What have you got to lose except to have somebody
say no?”  Dickey (10-1), who is tied with St. Louis Cardinals pitcher
Lance Lynn with a Major League Baseball high 10 wins, bested the
previous consecutive scoreless innings record set by Jerry Koosman in 1973 last night at Tropicana Field in  St. Petersburg ,
Florida. He said asking MLB to overturn the umpires is a “Hail
Mary” move.  ‘Hail Mary’  “I don’t know, it’s up to them,” Dickey told reporters.
“I’ve seen David make that play a lot of times with his bare
hand. You give him 10 times, he’s going to make it eight. It
just kicked off his palm a little bit.”  Dickey, who struck out 12 and allowed no walks, lost his
shutout streak in the ninth. Elliot Johnson reached on third
baseman David Wright’s throwing error, then advanced to third on
a pair of passed balls by Mike Nickeas before scoring when
Desmond Jennings grounded out for the Rays (35-27).  “We were two plays from a perfect game,” Collins said.
“I’ve seen a lot of games, but I’ve never seen a perfecto.”  Nickeas hit a one-run single and then scored along with
 Andres Torres  on Daniel Murphy’s single in the fifth inning to
give the Mets a 3-0 lead. Vinny Rottino hit a run-scoring double,
 Ike Davis  batted in another run with a single and Omar Quintanilla sent home Rottino and Davis on his single to make it
7-0 in the sixth.  Wright hit a two-run double in the ninth to end the scoring
for the Mets (34-29).  Tied With Braves  David Price (8-4) took the loss after giving up seven runs
on nine hits in five innings.  The Mets are tied with the  Atlanta Braves  for second place
in the five-team National League East, five games behind the
Washington Nationals, who have won six games in a row.  The Rays are third in the five-team American League East,
two games behind the  New York Yankees , who beat the Braves 3-2
last night.  At Turner Field in Atlanta,  Curtis Granderson  hit a two-run
home run in the sixth to give the Yankees (37-25) the go-ahead
run for their sixth straight win, 3-2 over the Braves (34-29).  Derek Jeter  scored on  Alex Rodriguez ’s single in the first
inning and added another run on Granderson’s home run.  Brian McCann hit a two-run homer in the fifth for the
Braves.  Hiroki Kuroda (6-6) allowed two runs on nine hits and
struck out eight in six innings.  Rafael Soriano  gave up one hit
in one inning for his 11th save.  Tim Hudson (4-3) surrendered three runs on six hits while
striking out eight in six innings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  