-- Yen Advances After Bank of Japan Leaves Policy Unchanged
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-15T15:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/dollar-set-for-weekly-drop-before-u-s-output-confidence-data.html
The yen strengthened the most in two
weeks against the dollar after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  refrained from
expanding monetary stimulus that debases the currency.  The euro fell against most of its major counterparts before
Greek elections June 17 that may determine whether the nation
stays in the currency union. The dollar was set for weekly
declines as May industrial production unexpectedly fell and June
 consumer confidence  trailed forecasts, adding to the case for
further stimulus from the Federal Reserve.  “Some people were expecting some sort of action from the
BOJ and when they didn’t, it increased the upward pressure on
the yen,” said  Mary Nicola , a currency strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in New York. “The BOJ is just going to wait and see
what happens with Greece and what happens with the Fed.”  The yen appreciated 0.9 percent to 78.65 per dollar at
11:37 a.m.  New York  time, the biggest gain since May 31. It
advanced 0.8 percent to 99.41 per euro. The dollar was little
changed at $1.2640 per euro.  The Canadian dollar dropped after the weaker data from the
U.S., its biggest trade partner. The loonie, as the Canadian
currency is known, lost 0.1 percent to C$1.0235.  Japan Policy  Japan ’s currency strengthened at least 0.3 percent against
all of its 16 major counterparts after the BOJ kept its asset-
purchase fund at 40 trillion yen ($510 billion) today, matching
the forecasts of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The central bank unexpectedly increased the fund on Feb. 14
and introduced a 1 percent inflation goal. That triggered a 1.1
percent drop in the yen that day against the dollar.  Premiums for three-month options for the euro against the
dollar were at 2.84 percentage points, up from a low this year
of 1.41 percentage points in March, showing investors are
willing to pay more for the right to sell the common currency.
The so-called risk reversal rate has eased from 3.47 percentage
points last month.  The implied volatility for one-month euro-dollar options
was at 12.57 percent, after reaching 13.3 percent last week.
While that’s up from 8.25 percent in April, it’s below last
year’s peak of 18.42 percent in September. The JPMorgan Global
FX Volatility Index was at 10.9 percent after falling to 8.8
percent in April.  Greater volatility makes investments in currencies with
higher benchmark lending rates less attractive because the risk
in such trades is that market moves will erase profits.  Risk Trades  “It is the ultimate risk-aversion trade to take long
dollar positions in the face of global adversity, so anything
that suggests otherwise would see liquidation of long dollar
positions,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales
at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London . “The global response
in the form of coordinated action is beginning to kick in,
favoring the euro.” A long position is a bet the value of an
asset will increase.  Greeks will vote for the second time in six weeks after a
May 6 ballot failed to yield a government. The final opinion
polls showed no party set to win a majority. Exit polls will be
released when voting ends at 7 p.m. in  Athens , with a first
official result estimate due around 9:30 p.m. The elections will
be followed by meetings by Group of 20 policy makers on June
18-19.  The elections may determine whether  Greece  upholds
austerity conditions attached to international aid, tries to
renegotiate the terms or abandons the pledge and risks what
would be the first departure from the euro bloc.  Spain  on June 9
became the fourth of 17 members to request a bailout.  Central banks are preparing for coordinated action to
provide liquidity if needed after a general election in Greece
in two days, Reuters reported.  Aussie Test  The Australian dollar is facing a “key test” as it
reaches a 50 percent retracement of $1.0028 from the April 27
high to the June 1 low, according to Niall O’Connor, a technical
analyst in New York at JPMorgan Chase & Co. An advance above
$1.0135 would imply a “better tone” and potential for a bigger
gain, O’Connor wrote in a research note yesterday.  The Aussie gained 0.4 percent to $1.0064.  Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities decreased 0.1
percent last month after a revised 1 percent gain in April, the
Fed reported today in  Washington . Economists forecast a 0.1
percent advance, according to the Bloomberg News survey median.
Manufacturing, which makes up about 75 percent of total
production, dropped 0.4 percent last month.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment for June fell to 74.1 from 79.3 at
the end of last month. Economists projected the gauge to drop to
77.5, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Economic Data  “Weak data does encourage expectations of some easing from
the  Federal Reserve  next week,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a
currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “We’ve
certainly seen a string of softer data in the U.S. If I were to
pick a currency that would benefit from softer U.S. numbers at
this point it would probably be the yen.”  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing from 2008 through 2011 to stimulate
the economy through lower borrowing costs. Central bank policy
makers meet on June 19 and 20.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, slipped for a fourth day, falling as much as
0.4 percent to 81.703, the least since May 23. It was down 0.9
percent for the week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 Dliedtka@bloomberg.net  