-- Draghi Fails to Find Clarity in ECB Communication
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k ,   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-06-14T23:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/draghi-fails-to-find-clarity-in-ecb-communication.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  is struggling to find the right balance between
saying too much and nothing at all.  Draghi won praise for his candor when he took the helm of
the ECB seven months ago. Since then, he has kept investors
guessing on three key Greek initiatives and confused some of
them on the outlook for ECB  bond purchases , whipsawing the euro
and Italian and Spanish bonds. Economists from Nomura
International Plc to ING Group NV say Draghi’s communication is
exacerbating market turmoil.  “Since the first press conference when Draghi came in with
a very confident style, it has basically been downhill on the
communication front,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research
at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “Clearly the communication has
sometimes created the wrong impression, and that makes markets
that bit more volatile.”  Draghi took the reins of the world’s second-most important
 central bank  in the middle of its biggest crisis, with the
future of Europe’s common currency at stake. As concerns about
the creditworthiness of euro-area nations drive up borrowing
costs and force the ECB ever further into uncharted territory,
Draghi must balance the need for transparency against the risk
of spooking financial markets.  ‘Relevant Information’  Openness and transparency guide the ECB’s communication
activities, a spokeswoman for the Frankfurt-based central bank
said. According to its website, the ECB’s  transparency goal  is
to give the public and markets “all relevant information” in
an “open, clear and timely manner.”  “The communication strategy has to be set against the
difficult framework of the monetary union,” said Robin Marshall, director of fixed income at Smith & Williamson
Investment Management in London, which manages about $18
billion. “But it’s true they’ve added to volatility. At times
they could have been more transparent.”  Draghi, 64, surprised observers with his directness on
debut as ECB president when he unexpectedly cut  interest rates 
on Nov. 3 and said the euro area was headed for recession,
sending the euro lower.  “He must be the first ECB president to utter the word
‘recession’ before it has actually happened,”  Julian
Callow , chief European economist at Barclays Plc in London, said
at the time.  First Misunderstanding  A month later, Draghi confused markets for the first time.
Speaking to the European Parliament, he appeared to suggest the
ECB would ramp up its government bond purchases if European
leaders agreed on the then-novel idea of a fiscal compact.  “A new fiscal compact” is “definitely the most important
element to start restoring credibility,” Draghi, a former  Bank
of Italy  governor, said on Dec. 1. “Other elements might
follow, but the sequencing matters.”  In anticipation of more ECB market intervention,  Italy ’s
10-year bond yield fell 37 basis points to 6.65 percent. A week
later, the yield rose 44 basis point and the euro fell when
Draghi downplayed the bond-purchase speculation, saying he was
“surprised” at how his comments were taken.  “It was undisciplined communication,” said Kounis, a
former U.K. Treasury official. “Clearly the communication has
sometimes created the wrong impression,” leaving markets
“expecting things that don’t materialize.”  Under Draghi, the ECB has also delayed or avoided
announcing three initiatives this year on  Greece , the country at
the epicenter of the debt crisis, allowing leaked news to hang
unexplained in markets.  Smoke, Mirrors  In March, it didn’t announce that the Greek bonds it bought
in its asset-purchase program would be exempt from a debt
restructuring that cost private investors 100 billion euros
($126 billion). As Bloomberg News and other media broke the
news, the euro and Italian and Spanish bonds rose because it
fueled speculation that Greece was closer to getting a second
bailout.  “This is one of the things people were concerned about
with the Draghi presidency,” said  James Nixon , chief European
economist at Societe Generale SA in  London . “There was the
concern that he’s a backroom operator, keen to stitch up
consensus behind closed doors. But what the world sees is merely
a process of smoke and mirrors.”  Draghi didn’t publicly acknowledge the ECB’s exemption
until three weeks later. Strategists at UBS AG, ING and other
banks said the move could subordinate investors’ rights.  Vow of Silence  A similar vow of silence presided over exempting the Greek
bonds held by euro-area national central banks for investment
purposes, which Draghi helped negotiate. The news was broken by
Bloomberg in February. The ECB has never disclosed how much
Greek debt it or the 17 central banks of the Eurosystem hold.  In May, the ECB decided against announcing that it was
moving some Greek banks off centralized funding and shifting
them to secretive, country-specific lending arrangements, known
as ELA, until they were recapitalized.  The euro fell to a four-month low after the news was
reported by a Dutch newspaper on the morning of May 16. The ECB
confirmed it in an e-mail at 6:46 p.m. that day.  “When you say nothing, people will be second-guessing
what’s going on and that creates uncertainty in the market,”
said Jens Sondergaard, senior European economist at Nomura in
London. “Investors in a world with uncertainty start asking for
risk premiums.”  Bernanke, Greenspan  Carsten Brzeski, senior European economist at ING in
Brussels, said the ECB seems to have been “overwhelmed” by the
demands of the debt crisis and pushed to its limits. “That’s
how communication mistakes happen, and that has added to
uncertainty in financial markets,” he said.  Draghi is not the only top central banker to have
experienced teething problems.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  also stumbled
shortly after taking office in 2006 when he told a CNBC reporter
at a Washington dinner that investors had misinterpreted his
remarks to Congress that suggested he was done raising rates.
Bonds tumbled when CNBC reported the conversation and Bernanke
later said the incident was a “lapse in judgment.”  His predecessor  Alan Greenspan  had a similar communications
slip shortly after taking the reins in 1987, suggesting in an
appearance on ABC’s “This Week With David Brinkley” program
that inflation could become a problem. Bond yields rose and
stocks fell in response, and Greenspan never gave a television
interview on the economy again while he was Fed chairman.  Legal Action  Central banks have struggled to balance the need for
transparency with their preference to keep some policy matters
secret since the global financial crisis started five years ago.  Last year, the Fed was forced to make disclosures on
discount window borrowers during the financial crisis after the
U.S. Supreme Court left intact lower court orders requiring the
central bank to reveal documents requested by Bloomberg News
under the Freedom of Information Act.  On June 14, a European court began hearing a lawsuit
brought by Bloomberg seeking disclosure of ECB files that may
show how Greece used derivatives to hide loans. Greece’s
ballooning deficit sparked the euro debt crisis.  Draghi’s communication travails illustrate the enormity of
his job, said  Andrew Balls , London-based head of European
 portfolio management  at Pacific Investment Management Co., which
runs the world’s biggest bond fund.  Complex Issues  “I wonder how anyone in Draghi’s position could not have
communications problems,” he said. “The central bank is
getting dragged into lots of complex issues, many of which it is
deeply uncomfortable with.”  Some economists say  Europe ’s political impasse over how to
solve the crisis and what to do about a possible Greek exit has
left the ECB in a bind.  While the central bank’s silence on key issues is
“frustrating,” it “can never be too overt about influencing
the process,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, senior European
economist at Jefferies International Ltd in London. “The ECB
has a very tricky job of balancing what it wants to see happen
on one hand and not being seen as too political on the other.”  The ECB may also oppose full transparency on issues such as
emergency ELA lending because it could risk shattering
confidence in individual institutions or entire banking systems,
raising the specter of bank runs.  Charles Plosser , president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia , has argued that central bank communication is most
likely to backfire when it lacks clarity, not when policy makers
say too much.  ‘More Accountable’  Transparency “makes policy more effective,” Plosser said
in Eltville,  Germany , on May 25. Furthermore, “transparency in
communication makes the central bank more accountable, and
that’s a good thing.”  Draghi at times uses a blunt approach. At his second press
briefing on Dec. 8 last year, after the ECB had cut rates again
and Draghi had hinted at further stimulus, he answered his first
questioner like this:  “The answer to the first question is ‘no.’ The answer to
the second question is ‘no.’ And the answer to the third
question is ‘we never pre-commit.’ So, it is two ‘no’s’ and one
‘never pre-commit.’”  While drawing laughter, the answer in fact revealed the
significant news that the ECB had no intention of stepping up
bond purchases and that some council members had voted against a
rate reduction.  Not Unhappy  Christoph Kind, head of  asset allocation  at Frankfurt
Trust, which manages about $20 billion, said he’s not unhappy
with ECB communication.  Still, “I always hold my breath a bit when Draghi speaks,
waiting for the odd faux pas,” said Kind. “In some respects
he’s flippant, and in other instances he talks too much.”  Former ECB president Jean-Claude Trichet “was more of a
statesman,” Kind said.  Draghi faces inevitable comparisons with Trichet, who
piloted the ECB from 2003 to 2011 and developed a frequently-
repeated set of phrases that markets learned to interpret. By
contrast, Draghi has joked about his communication skills.  Asked last week whether he was wrong when he said in March
that the worst of the debt crisis was over, Draghi gave some of
his reasons for making the remark and said the full quote
included a warning of serious downside risks.  “So, I mean, I’m trying to rationalize what I said, and I
hope I’ve been, I guess, 50 percent convincing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  