-- The EU Smiled While Spain’s Banks Cooked the Books
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-06-14T22:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/the-eu-smiled-while-spain-s-banks-cooked-the-books.html
Only a few years ago,  Spain ’s banks
were seen in some policy-making circles as a model for the rest
of the world. This may be hard to fathom now, considering that
Spain is seeking $125 billion to bail out its ailing lenders.  But back in 2008 and early 2009, Spanish regulators were
 riding high  after their country’s banks seemed to have dodged
the financial crisis with minimal losses. A big reason for their
success, the regulators said, was an accounting technique called
dynamic provisioning.  By this, they meant that Spain’s banks had set aside rainy-
day loan-loss reserves on their books during boom years. The
purpose, they said, was to build up a buffer in good times for
use in bad times.  This isn’t the way accounting standards usually work.
Normally the rules say companies can record losses, or
provisions, only when bad loans are specifically identified.
Spanish regulators said they were trying to be countercyclical,
so that any declines in lending and the broader economy would be
less severe.  What’s now obvious is that Spain’s banks weren’t reporting
all of their losses when they should have, dynamically or
otherwise. One of the catalysts for last weekend’s bailout
request was the decision last month by the  Bankia (BKIA)  group, Spain’s
third-largest lender, to restate its 2011 results to show a 3.3
billion-euro ($4.2 billion) loss rather than a 40.9 million-euro
profit. Looking back, we probably  should have known  Spain’s
banks would end up this way, and that their reported financial
results bore no relation to reality.  Name Calling  Dynamic provisioning  is a euphemism for an old balance-
sheet trick called  cookie-jar accounting . The point of the
technique is to understate past profits and shift them into
later periods, so that companies can mask volatility and bury
future losses. Spain’s banks began using the method in 2000
because their regulator, the  Bank of Spain , required them to.  “Dynamic loan loss provisions can help deal with
procyclicality in banking,” Bank of Spain’s director of
financial stability, Jesus Saurina, wrote in a July 2009  paper 
published by the  World Bank . “Their anticyclical nature
enhances the resilience of both individual banks and the banking
system as a whole. While there is no guarantee that they will be
enough to cope with all the credit losses of a downturn, dynamic
provisions have proved useful in Spain during the current
financial crisis.”  The danger with the technique is it can make companies look
healthy when they are actually quite ill, sometimes for years,
until they finally deplete their  excess reserves  and crash. The
practice also clashed with International Financial Reporting
Standards, which Spain adopted several years ago along with the
rest of  Europe . European Union officials knew this and let Spain
proceed with its own brand of accounting anyway.  One of the more candid advocates of Spain’s approach was
Charlie McCreevy, the EU’s commissioner for financial services
from 2004 to 2010, who previously had been Ireland’s finance
minister. During an April 2009 meeting of the  monitoring board 
that oversees the  International Accounting Standards Board ’s
trustees, McCreevy said he knew Spain’s banks were violating the
board’s rules. This was fine with him, he said.  “They didn’t implement IFRS, and our regulations said from
the 1st January 2005 all publicly listed companies had to
implement IFRS,” McCreevy said, according to a  transcript  of
the meeting on the monitoring board’s website. “The Spanish
regulator did not do that, and he survived this. His banks have
survived this crisis better than anybody else to date.”  Ignoring Rules  McCreevy, who at the time was the chief enforcer of EU laws
affecting banking and markets, went on: “The rules did not
allow the dynamic provisioning that the Spanish banks did, and
the Spanish banking regulator insisted that they still have the
dynamic provisioning. And they did so, but I strictly speaking
should have taken action against them.”  Why didn’t he take action? McCreevy said he was a fan of
dynamic provisioning. “Why am I like that? Well, I’m old enough
to remember when I was a young student that in my country that I
know best, banks weren’t allowed to publish their results in
detail,” he said. “Why? Because we felt if everybody saw the
reserves, etc., it would create maybe a run on the banks.”  So to  sum up  this way of thinking: The best system is one
that lets banks hide their financial condition from the public.
Barring that, it’s perfectly acceptable for banks to violate
accounting standards, if that’s what it takes to navigate a
crisis. The proof is that Spain’s banks survived the financial
meltdown of 2008 better than most others.  Except now we know they didn’t. They merely postponed their
reckoning, making it inevitably more expensive. Someday maybe
the world’s leaders will learn that masking losses undermines
investor confidence and makes crises worse. We can only hope
they don’t manage to blow up the whole financial system first.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Obama’s economic speech  and
 why Europe is not ready for a Greek exit ; William Pesek on
 China’s economic slowdown ; Virginia Postrel on  making your own
Michelangelo ; Donald Haider on  avoiding the fiscal cliff ;  Steven
Greenhut  on  why “top two” primaries are bad for democracy .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  