-- The Wrong Way to Fix California
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-06-14T22:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/the-wrong-way-to-fix-california.html
California  desperately needs
courageous leaders with innovative ideas. Unfortunately, the new
 “top two”  primary system, which went into effect for the June 5
election, is a step toward rewarding careerist politicians who
tout the same old status-quo solutions.  In 2010, California voters approved Proposition 14, which
installed a primary system similar to those that exist in two
states:  Washington  and Louisiana. Previously, voters elected
primary candidates from their own party, and the winner would
face off against the other parties’ candidates in the general
election in November. Under the new system, candidates from all
parties compete against one another in the primary. The top two
vote-getters fight it out in the general election, regardless of
their party affiliation.  The brainchild of then Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , the
initiative was the result of a legislative deal that still
enrages conservatives. Abel Maldonado, a state senator and
moderate Republican, agreed to vote for a Democratic tax-
increasing budget in the Legislature provided the Democratic
majority voted to put the measure on the ballot.  The June 5 vote was the first election after the state
completed changes in its redistricting process, another project
of Schwarzenegger’s. When the usual slate of partisan candidates
won, supporters of the new system said the results proved the
political dynamic wouldn’t change that much. But this primary
was a low-turnout election, in which partisan voters made up a
larger share of people heading to the polls. The moderate voters
the reform is targeting are more likely to be a presence in
November.  Conservatives Weakened  In the general election,  21 state legislative races  will
feature members of the same party. That is a significant number.
It points to long-term changes that will be the opposite of what
the initiative’s backers promised -- more choice, fewer special
interests -- but exactly what many of them wanted the new system
to do: Break the resistance of Republicans in the Legislature on
tax increases.  All of the so-called reforms -- open primaries, a
constitutional convention, redistricting, simple-majority
budgets -- pushed recently by moderate political activists will
probably achieve that dubious result.  “The financial backers of it included the big corporate
interests who wanted to reduce the number of doctrinaire
liberals and doctrinaire conservatives, hoping to be able to
come up with an environment in  Sacramento  where they could cut
more deals,” Jon Fleischman, a former California Republican
Party vice chairman, said in an interview, referring to the top-
two system.  Proposition 14 passed by a solid 54 percent of the
electorate. Its supporters told the voters that it would end
California’s notorious partisanship. Moderates, we were told,
would be more likely to work for the public good than
politicians on the right or left.  Responding to that argument, Richard Winger, the editor of
 Ballot Access News , makes an important point: “It’s illegitimate
to design a system to elect a particular kind of person.”  Even if that were a legitimate goal, there’s no evidence
that California’s moderates in either party have been fountains
of innovative thinking.  Proposals for pension reform, for instance, come mainly
from conservatives, with a few progressive Democrats thrown into
the mix. California moderates from both parties tend to be most
closely aligned with the public-sector unions, especially
 police , firefighters and prison guards. Special interests have
more influence with the middle-of-the-road candidates because
these politicians rarely have a core philosophy governing their
decisions.  Centrists’ Mistakes  Moderates have had their shot in recent years. Former
Governor  Gray Davis  was touted as a new breed of Democratic
centrist. His term ended in a recall amid deficits and rolling
electricity blackouts. Schwarzenegger swung wildly from right to
left, ultimately leaving the state in a fiscal mess not much
different from when he took office.  Why would we design a system to elect more moderates?  The idea fails for other reasons as well. It claims to
reduce the influence of money in the election process, but it is
doing the opposite. Instead of having to raise money for a
lower-cost party primary and then for the general election,
candidates now must run in what amounts to two general
elections. It’s too early to draw conclusions about spending
given that the general-election cycle has just started, but the
Sacramento Bee reported, “Campaign spending by independent
groups to affect legislative races has soared -- from more than
$7 million in the 2010 primary to more than $12 million this
year, state records show.”  As the political scientist John J. Pitney Jr. wrote in City
Journal California, “Bigger electorates result in costlier
campaigns, which in turn require candidates to ask special
interests for even more money.” Fleischman argues that
candidates are more dependent than ever on the coffers of unions
and other special interests because of the increased costs of
running for office under the new system.  Instead of increasing voter choice, the top-two system
decreases it. Third parties are now effectively cut out of the
general-election cycle, when voters are paying the most
attention. The chairman of the Libertarian Party of California,
Kevin Takenaga, told me the new system is making it harder for
him to recruit candidates and raise money. It’s the same for
other small parties.  With fewer differences between candidates, fewer voters may
head to the polls. On June 5, turnout was near a record low.
It’s too early to conclude why, but it is a troubling sign. Even
the customary means for casting a protest vote -- the write-in -
- has been eliminated, leaving disaffected Californians no
choice but to stay at home on Election Day to register their
dismay at having to choose between Tweedledee and Tweedledum.  More Initiatives  California’s Legislature is mocked for its wacky positions
and failure to institute reforms, but a governing body stripped
of its conservative voice -- and that will be the lasting effect
of this change -- will leave reformers with even more incentive
to turn to the initiative process. Democratic moderates already
vote in lockstep with party leaders on taxes and union issues.
The target of this change is Republicans, and the result will be
more of them like Schwarzenegger and Maldonado.  When two Republicans face off in the general election,
these are now typically in safe Republican seats. In the old
system, a conservative would almost surely win the closed
primary, then take on token Democratic opposition in November.
Under the new system, the Republican vote will be split in the
general election (inattentive voters can’t just vote party line,
after all), and non-Republican voters will probably tilt the
field to the more moderate candidate.  Unlike  Louisiana  and Washington, California needs only to
shift in a handful of legislative districts to give the state’s
Democrats the two-thirds majority they need to push for tax
increases without Republican help.
We already see how Republicans are being cut out of the state-
budget process, with a deadline looming this week. That is
because of passage of another change pushed by moderates: the
simple-majority budget. Once Democrats have that tax
supermajority vote, they will turn to their tax-raising
solutions early and often.  Republican officials already see an increased reluctance by
their candidates to sign the no-new-tax pledge, which has proved
an effective tool to keep weak-kneed party members from giving
in to pressure.  If California ever hopes to emerge from its continuing
crisis, it needs livelier debate and tougher battles against
vested interests. It doesn’t need more malleable politicians
with few envelope-pushing ideas and no spine when it comes to
challenging the public-sector unions and other special interests
that got us into trouble in the first place.  ( Steven Greenhut  is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Obama’s economic speech  and
 why Europe is not ready for a Greek exit ; William Pesek on
 China’s economic slowdown ; Virginia Postrel on  making your own
Michelangelo ;  Jonathan Weil  on  accounting tricks by Spain’s
banks ; Donald Haider on  avoiding the fiscal cliff .  To contact the writer of this article:
Steven Greenhut in Sacramento at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 