-- ECB Tells Court Releasing Greek Swap Files Would Inflame Markets
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-06-14T12:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/ecb-tells-court-releasing-greek-swap-files-would-inflame-markets.html
The  European Central Bank  said it
can’t release files showing how Greece may have used derivatives
to hide its borrowings because disclosure could still inflame
the crisis threatening the future of the single currency.  Bloomberg News is suing the ECB to provide the documents
under European Union freedom-of-information rules. The papers
may help show the role EU authorities played in allowing Greece
to mask its deficit for almost a decade before the nation’s
troubled finances necessitated a 240 billion-euro ($301 billion)
bailout and the biggest debt restructuring in history.  Disclosing the files when Bloomberg News first sought them
in 2010 would have “fueled negative perceptions about Greece’s
ability to honor its debt,” ECB lawyer Marta Lopez Torres said
at a hearing of the European Union’s General Court in Luxembourg
today. “It’s the same now with  Spain ” which “isn’t able to
borrow money,” she said. “Markets are reacting in very
volatile ways. It’s affecting the euro economy.”  Greece may seek to leave the euro if parties opposed to the
austerity measures imposed with the rescue win elections on June
17. Meanwhile, Spain’s 10-year borrowing costs jumped to a euro-
era record today after the nation’s credit rating was cut to one
step above junk by Moody’s Investors Service following Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s request for bank aid this week.  “Markets will perform better when they have
transparency,” Timothy Pitt-Payne, lawyer for Bloomberg News,
told the court. “The question is who knew what; and when did
they know it?”  ‘Greek Case’  Bloomberg’s lawsuit, filed in December 2010, requested
access to two internal papers drafted for the central bank’s
six-member Executive Board. They show how  Greece  used swaps to
hide its borrowings, according to a March 3, 2010, note attached
to the papers and obtained by Bloomberg News.  The first document is entitled “The impact on government
deficit and debt from off-market swaps: the Greek case.” The
second reviews Titlos Plc, a securitization that allowed
 National Bank of Greece SA , the country’s biggest lender, to
exchange swaps on Greek government debt for funding from the
ECB, the Executive Board said in the cover note.  These documents “played a role” in shaping policy and
“highlighted there were issues” when the ECB undertook a
review of its eligibility criteria for collateral in its funding
operations, the ECB lawyer told the court.  The cornerstone of the ECB’s response to the crisis is to
give banks as much money as they needed in return for
collateral. In October 2010, the ECB changed the rules on the
asset-backed securities it accepted and gave itself more
discretionary power to reject collateral if necessary.  ‘Right to Know’  “The public has a right to know how EU authorities may
have allowed Greece to hide its deficit, which helped trigger
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis,” said  Matthew Winkler , editor-
in-chief of Bloomberg News. “Greater transparency results in
more accountability, and we seek this information to understand
how this debt debacle unfolded in an effort to avoid repeating
it.”  The Greek government didn’t originally disclose the swaps,
designed to help it comply with the deficit and debt rules it
agreed to meet when it joined the euro in 2001. The swaps
allowed the country to increase borrowings by 5.3 billion euros,
 Eurostat , the EU’s statistics agency, said in November 2010.  In April 2009 -- seven months before the Greek crisis
erupted -- ECB officials spotted “a swap operation in unusual
terms,” according to the March 2010 document.  Additional Powers  Repeated revisions of Greece’s budget figures after  George Papandreou  ousted Kostas Karamanlis as Prime Minister in October
2009, spurred a surge in the country’s borrowing costs,
eventually forcing the nation to seek aid from the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund . In 2010, Eurostat gained additional
powers allowing it to audit countries’ financial data.  In the largest derivative transaction disclosed so far,
Greece borrowed 2.8 billion euros from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in 2001 through a derivative that swapped dollar- and yen-
denominated debt issued by the nation for euros using a
historical  exchange rate , a move that generated an implied
reduction in total borrowings.  “The Greek authorities had never informed Eurostat about
this complex issue, and no opinion on the accounting treatment
had been requested,” Eurostat, the Luxembourg-based statistics
agency, said in a statement. The watchdog had only “general”
discussions with financial institutions over its debt and
deficit guidelines when the swap was executed in 2001.  “It is possible that  Goldman Sachs (GS)  asked us for general
clarifications,” Eurostat said, declining to elaborate further.  Spokesmen for Goldman Sachs in  London  couldn’t immediately
comment after the hearing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  