-- ECB’s Weidmann Says True Fiscal Union Could Allow Euro Bonds
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-06-14T14:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/ecb-s-weidmann-says-true-fiscal-union-could-allow-euro-bonds.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Jens Weidmann said common euro bonds or joint
debt liability could be established in the currency area in the
context of a true fiscal union.  “If a framework was credibly established that reliably
ensured the adherence to fiscal rules, then a common liability
by the euro member states could be introduced,” Weidmann said
in a speech today in Mannheim,  Germany . “That could for example
entail jointly-guaranteed or partially guaranteed  government
bonds  or a banking union.”  European policy makers are debating the future design of a
more integrated single currency as a debt crisis that has seen
four countries appeal for bailouts highlights its shortcomings.
Yields on  Spain ’s 10-year debt rose to a euro-era record today
after Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s credit rating
to one step above junk, citing its rising debt burden and
weakening economy.  Weidmann, who is president of Germany’s Bundesbank, said
the euro area is facing a “decision over which direction a
stable union should now take.” Two directions are possible,
either toward a full fiscal union or back to national
sovereignty and self-responsibility. In the latter scenario,
common debt responsibility cannot happen, he said.  On monetary policy, Weidmann said that a discussion on
whether the ECB should set a higher  inflation goal  than its
current 2 percent, or that it should receive an expanded
mandate, would undermine the confidence of the public in the
central bank.  Trust in monetary policy “is long and dearly purchased and
is at a particular point quickly lost,” he said. “Discussions
over the utility of a higher inflation target or a broadened
mandate, no matter how fruitless they might be, are poisonous
for this trust.”  “Instead, monetary policy has to decisively counter
emerging upside risks for inflation,” Weidmann said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Mannheim at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  