-- Echo to Raise A$454 Million by Selling New Shares
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-06-15T01:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/echo-to-raise-a-454-million-by-selling-new-shares.html
Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP) ,
operator of Sydney’s only casino, plans to raise A$454 million
($455 million) selling new shares to investors at a discount to
reduce debt and expand its high roller program.  Investors will be able to buy one share at A$3.30, or 27
percent less than the previous closing price, for every five
they own, the Brisbane-based company said in a statement today.
Echo’s biggest shareholder  Crown Ltd. (CWN) , controlled by billionaire
 James Packer , will take up its full entitlement.  The owner of Sydney’s Star casino wants to expand its VIP
program to capture a greater share of high stakes gamblers as
Crown seeks permission to increase its holding above 10 percent
and rival  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS)  revealed it bought a stake. Echo
also forecast earnings as much as 29 percent below analyst
estimates amid “difficult” trading conditions.  “It’s a very steep discount for this type of offer,” Nick
Berry, a Sydney-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said by
phone. “The fact that shareholders are only happy to pay A$3.30
shows there’s still a big takeover premium in the share price.”  Genting and Crown may compete to take over Echo, Gary Pinge, the  Hong Kong  based regional head of gaming and consumer
at Macquarie Group Ltd., said by phone June 8.  Echo said the money raised would help amend the structure
of its equity and debt to be “more appropriate” to the VIP
program.  High roller programs typically require a higher proportion
of funds tied up in the day-to-day running of the business, to
handle volatile winnings on large bets.  “During the course of each year the casino businesses can
enjoy significant wins and sustain significant losses” in the
VIP business, Echo said in a presentation today.  Win Rates  Still, the high roller business provides a “large growth
opportunity” by boosting market share, Echo Chief Executive
Officer Larry Mullin said.  The amount of money wagered in Echo’s VIP business is
forecast to rise 62 percent in the year ending June 30 while its
win rate will decline 0.5 percent, it said. Revenue from net
winnings will grow as little as 2.3 percent, the company said.  While win rates in Echo’s non-VIP business also fell over
the past six months and weak consumer sentiment has hurt sales,
revenue in that segment is forecast to rise 3.9 percent as the
Star benefits from a refurbishment program.  Echo, which also owns three casinos in the state of
Queensland, said earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization will be between A$270 million and A$315 million in
the year ended June 30. The company amended its dividend policy
to allow it to pay 50 percent of net income.  The forecast compares with the A$377.9 million average of
12  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Revolving Loans  Echo has two  revolving loans  each worth A$480 million and
maturing in 2014 and 2016, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In May 2011, before its split from  Tabcorp Holdings
Ltd. (TAH) , the company also said it would sell $460 million of
private placement notes maturing in 2018 and 2021.  The proceeds of today’s announcement would be used to
reduce the revolving loans if Echo can amend the terms of its
notes by June 28, the company said. If bondholders don’t agree
to change their terms, Echo will repay the private placement
notes instead.  A bank, which Echo didn’t identify, had committed to
provide a A$350 million bridging loan to repay the notes.  Packer agreed to cease a campaign against Echo after
Chairman John Story stepped down June 8, Acting Chairman John O’Neill said June 12. Genting  Singapore , operator of casinos in
the city state, has also built a stake in Echo of 4.9 percent.  Story resigned after Crown, which owns casinos in Melbourne
and Perth, called a meeting to vote on his removal and ran
advertisements in local newspapers criticizing the company’s
“underperformance” under his leadership. Packer has now
withdrawn his request for a shareholder meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  