-- Media Protest U.S. Government Economic Data Restrictions
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-06-14T02:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/media-protest-u-s-government-economic-data-restrictions.html
U.S. Representative  Darrell Issa 
pressed the Labor Department to review its security procedures
for jobless figures and other economic data as the agency weighs
changing the way it releases such information to the media.  In a letter to Labor Secretary Hilda Solis released
yesterday, Issa said the government-run Sandia National
Laboratories, which was charged with studying how the agency
disseminates the data, wasn’t allowed to examine all potential
security shortcomings.  “It is apparent that Sandia was prevented from examining
the full scope of the department’s handling of economically
significant data,” Issa, a California Republican and chairman
of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said in
the June 12 letter. “Sandia found unexamined flaws in the
process that potentially put the sensitive economic information
handled by the department at significantly more risk than the
lock-up procedures.”  The Labor Department issued an order on April 10 requiring
journalists who are given access to the data in advance, to give
them time to prepare stories before figures are publicly
released, to use government computers and other equipment. The
agency and news organizations are negotiating changes to rules
described in the order, though no conclusion has been reached.  Bloomberg News and other media organizations have opposed
changes in the department’s procedures, saying the revisions
would violate press freedom. Agency officials told the committee
the new policy is needed to ensure that sensitive economic
figures aren’t released prematurely.  Agency Lock-Ups  The new policy would change a longstanding practice that
lets news organizations use their own computers, phone and data
lines to file and transmit stories about  unemployment figures 
and consumer prices from so-called lock-ups at the Labor
Department. Under the new procedures, reporters would be
required to use government computer equipment, software and
Internet connections.  Journalists are provided the market-sensitive data on an
embargoed basis to give them time to write and edit stories at
the agency. When the data are released, a Labor Department
official flips a switch to let news organizations transmit.  Agency officials told Issa’s committee earlier this month
that the changes, which they said were based on the Sandia
recommendations, are needed to ensure the figures aren’t
released prematurely.  Issa’s Demand  In his letter to Solis, Issa demanded a copy of Sandia’s
analysis by June 26. Stephen Barr, a Labor Department spokesman,
said the agency is “carefully reviewing” Issa’s request. Barr
said that Sandia was selected “specifically” to look at its
procedures regarding print reporters because “that was the
focus of concerns and complaints and the Sandia review was
limited to the print media.”  Requiring journalists to use government-provided software,
hardware and dedicated lines would inhibit journalistic
independence, and “as the government grows more concerned about
 cyber security , the proposed policy would create a single point
of failure,” Rick Blum, coordinator of the Sunshine in
Government Initiative, wrote May 8 in a letter to Solis.  “The public has benefited enormously from the process the
department currently uses,” according to the letter. “The
practice used to this point ensures the simultaneous release of
information while also providing time that enables reporters to
place the new data in meaningful context.”  The initiative’s members include the American Society of
News Editors, the Online News Association and the Society of
Professional Journalists. A representative of Bloomberg News
testified at an oversight committee hearing on the matter last
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  