-- Medicaid Fraud Audits Cost Five Times Amount U.S. Found
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/medicaid-fraud-audits-cost-five-times-amount-u-s-found.html
A program to fight fraud in the
 Medicaid health system  for the poor has cost the U.S. at least
$102 million in auditing fees since 2008 while identifying less
than $20 million in overpayments, investigators found.  The majority of the audits conducted by 10 companies were
discontinued, produced “low or no findings” or were “put on
hold,” the  Government Accountability Office , the nonpartisan
investigative arm of Congress, said today in a report. Three
companies won’t have their contracts renewed, and two others
will be reassigned, said Peter Budetti, the director of program
integrity at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.  “The results were extremely disappointing, way below what
the expectations had been,” Budetti said in a telephone
interview. He declined to name the companies terminated because
he wasn’t sure whether the actions have been made public.  Medicaid and Medicare, the U.S. insurance program for the
elderly and disabled, are plagued by $60 billion in fraud a
year, the Justice Department estimates. The Medicaid audit
program, which was supposed to identify erroneous payments to
doctors and hospitals, has produced “a negative return on
investment,” aides to Senator Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat,
said in a staff memo to the Senate Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs committee.  A subcommittee headed by Carper is holding a hearing today
in Washington where the GAO report will be released.  ‘Trickling Out’  “These programs resemble a funnel through which
significant federal and state resources are being poured in and
limited results are trickling out,” Ann Maxwell, a regional
inspector general for the  Department of Health  and Human
Services, said in prepared testimony for the hearing.  Reducing fraud and waste in government health programs
“will help us as we work to curb our federal debt and, in the
case of Medicaid, it will help states as they grapple with their
own budget problems,” Carper said in an e-mail from a
spokeswoman, Emily  Spain .  While Medicaid is run by states, more than half its bills
are paid by the federal government, which spent about  $270
billion in 2011 . Anti-fraud efforts in Medicaid were left to
states until 2005, when a federal law aimed at reducing the
deficit created the Medicaid Integrity Group.  The government then hired 10 companies to conduct Medicaid
audits -- five to analyze state data to identify audit targets,
and five to audit targeted health providers, Budetti said. More
than two-thirds of 1,550 audits of state records since fiscal
2008 were deemed “unproductive” by the GAO after they
identified $7.4 million in possible Medicaid overpayments.  Twenty-six audits of health providers turned up $8.1
million in overpayments. Audits conducted in partnership with
states, found $4.4 million, according to the GAO.  Audits of state Medicaid records were stopped in February
2011. Budetti’s office plans to assign the auditors to work with
states on “collaborative” audits, in which state Medicaid
officials select health providers or industries they think
federal auditors should target. There are 137 such audits
already in progress, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  