-- Edwards Wins FDA Advisers' Backing for Wider Sapien Use
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/edwards-wins-fda-advisers-backing-for-wider-sapien-use.html
Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW)  won the
backing of U.S. advisers for an expanded use of the company’s
Sapien  heart valve  as an alternative to open-heart surgery.  Food and Drug Administration  advisers voted 11-0 with one
abstention yesterday that the benefits outweigh the risks of the
transcatheter heart valve, which can be implanted with minimal
incisions, for patients considered high-risk yet who are capable
of handling surgery. The FDA isn’t required to follow the
advisory panel’s advice.  Patients who used Sapien experienced double the stroke risk
in the first 30 days after the implant procedure, compared with
those who had open-heart surgery, FDA staff said in a June 11
 report . If Sapien, which was approved in November for inoperable
patients, is cleared as an alternative to surgery, FDA staff
said long-term follow-up is warranted.  While the panel supported the device, “there are a number
of caveats that are inescapable” Warren Laskey, temporary panel
chairman and chief of the division of cardiology at the
University of New Mexico School of Medicine in  Albuquerque , said
during the meeting.  Among the caveats are the increased stroke risk, which
panel members agreed should be studied in post-approval
analysis, he said.  The panel also voted 10-2 that Sapien from  Irvine ,
California-based Edwards is safe and 12-0 that the device is
effective.  Market of $2.5 Billion  The market for transcatheter valves may total $2.5 billion
in the U.S., said  Jason Mills , a San Francisco-based analyst
with Canaccord Adams Inc. The initial FDA approval of Sapien in
November boosted Edwards’s sales 67 percent in the first quarter
to $122 million, Michael Mussallem, the company’s chairman and
chief executive officer, said in an April 24 earnings call.  The device is meant to treat aortic stenosis. The
debilitating condition is caused by a narrowing valve that
restricts the ability of blood to enter the aorta, the main
artery that carries blood from the heart, according to the
 National Institutes of Health .  “A broader indication for high-risk patients would enable
multidisciplinary heart teams to choose the approach best suited
to their patients’ needs,” Mussallem said in a statement after
the panel’s vote. “We look forward to working closely with the
FDA during the review process, and thank the panel for their
thoughtful analysis.”  The FDA may decide on approval in October if reviewers
follow the same timeline they did when they cleared the valve
for inoperable patients. Advisers met in July to consider the
device for inoperable patients and approved it in November.  Trial Data  Agency staff raised concerns in the report with the way
Edwards selected and categorized patients in a trial, making
evaluation of the results difficult. The staff said a large
imbalance of people in the surgery group withdrew from the trial
or died before the procedure, creating the potential for
selection bias. Almost 11 percent of patients chosen for the
surgery group didn’t have an operation.  Categorizing of patients who were eligible for surgery
versus those who weren’t at different trial sites also appeared
to vary and 30 percent of patient enrollment was by researchers
who had a financial conflict of interest, FDA staff said.  Satisfactory Protocol  Studying high-high risk patients is difficult and while
reviewers should keep potential bias in mind, Magnus Ohman, a
panel member and a cardiologist at Duke University Medical
Center in Durham,  North Carolina , said he was satisfied with the
trial results.  “I wouldn’t find a specific target here and say this is
what you’ve got to do differently in the future,” Ohman said
during the meeting.  The stroke rate was increased through the year of follow-up
for patients who received the device through an incision in the
chest compared with those who had Sapien implanted using an
incision in the leg. Early  research  found Sapien caused more
strokes in patients after a year than surgery, yet after another
year  stroke rates  evened out, according to Edwards.  Edwards proposed a post-approval study to follow patients
in the trial and to create a registry for new patients,
according to the FDA. Agency staff said the patients already in
the trial should be followed for at least five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  