-- Egyptians Warn of Danger to Democracy After Court Ruling
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-06-15T16:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/egypt-parliament-dissolved-as-court-clears-shafik.html
The Muslim Brotherhood said Egypt’s
transition to democracy faces its biggest threat after a court
decision dissolving parliament, while activists labeled the
ruling a military power grab and called for protests.  Criticism of yesterday’s constitutional court verdict
intensified as Egypt prepares to elect a successor to ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak . A two-day runoff starting tomorrow pits
the Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi against Ahmed Shafik, a prime
minister under Mubarak, whose participation was ensured when the
court overturned a ban on former officials taking top jobs.  The dissolution of parliament unravels gains by the
Brotherhood, which controlled almost half the assembly’s seats.
The group said on its website that the situation is “more
dangerous than the last days of Mubarak’s rule.” A win for
Shafik, a former air force commander, would mean “all the
achievements of the democratic revolution will be erased.”  The turmoil has overshadowed a vote that was due to
complete Egypt’s democratization almost 16 months after the
start of the revolt, and offer an opportunity to revive its
struggling economy. Fitch Ratings today cut  Egypt ’s foreign-
currency debt by one step to B+, four levels below investment
grade, citing “increased uncertainties surrounding the
political transition following yesterday’s ruling.”  Egypt’s bonds extended losses today and credit risk jumped
the most in almost a month after yesterday’s ruling. Activists
who led last year’s uprising accused the generals of clinging to
power and plan rallies later today.  Army Interests  Mursi and Shafik qualified for the runoff as the two
leading candidates in last month’s first round of voting,
winning 26 percent and 25 percent respectively. Final results
are expected on June 21. The army council that has run the
country since Mubarak’s fall says it will hand over power by the
end of this month after the vote.  The court decisions, along with new rules allowing the army
to arrest civilians, are an attempt by the military council “to
stay in power longer to secure their interests,” said Ingy
Hamdi, one of the leaders of the April 6 youth movement.  The rulings come at a time when Egypt lacks a constitution,
with secular and Islamist politicians disputing the makeup of
the panel that will write it, while the parliament and military-
appointed government have repeatedly clashed. Those conflicts
have stymied hopes of concluding a $3.2 billion  International
Monetary Fund  loan.  Egypt needs the money after tourism and investment were hit
by the political unrest. The central bank has spent more than
half its  currency reserves  since the start of last year as it
seeks to bolster up the pound.  ‘Methodical Sabotage’  Yields on benchmark 10-year dollar bonds climbed to 6.91
percent today, extending their two-day increase to 23 basis
points. Five-year credit default swaps rose 22 basis points to
648, according to CMA, which is owned by GME Group Inc. and
compiles data from the privately negotiated market.  The court rulings are the “culmination of a steady and
methodical sabotage effort” by the ruling military, and may
make it impossible to achieve the broad political support for an
economic program that the IMF is seeking as a condition for
loans, Bank of America Merrill Lynch economist Jean-Michel Saliba wrote in an e-mailed report.  ‘Full Transfer’  The court rulings created confusion outside Egypt too.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday that the U.S.
is discussing the implications with Egypt and still expects “a
full transfer of power to a democratically elected civilian
government.”  The European Union wants the consequences to be “clarified
as soon as possible,”  Michael Mann , a spokesman for EU foreign
policy chief  Catherine Ashton , told reporters in Brussels today.  Shafik, who has run on a law and order and secularist
platform, is seen as the army’s favored candidate. Mursi’s
candidacy has been attacked by secularists as an attempt by the
Brotherhood to monopolize power after its victory in
parliamentary elections.  The court verdicts amount to “a soft military coup,”
Ashraf el-Sherif, an American University in Cairo political
scientist, said by phone. “The plan is to end up with a
president who is allied with the military while there’s no
parliament and no constitution. This means pure military rule.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  