-- Televisa Strikes Antitrust Deal to Acquire Iusacell Stake
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-06-14T18:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/televisa-strikes-antitrust-deal-to-acquire-iusacell-stake.html
Grupo Televisa SAB, the world’s
largest Spanish-language broadcaster, climbed to the highest
price in a month after winning conditional antitrust approval
for the $1.6 billion acquisition of a 50 percent stake in
mobile-phone carrier Grupo Iusacell SA.  Televisa rose 2.1 percent to 56.18 pesos at 1:17 p.m. in
Mexico City after touching 56.22 pesos, the highest intraday
price since May 14. The Federal Competition Commission, which
reversed an earlier decision on appeal, said today that Televisa
could go through with the transaction if the broadcaster takes
steps to open itself up to more competition.  The settlement ends a 14-month struggle by Mexico City-
based Televisa for the right to take on billionaire  Carlos
Slim ’s  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB in the mobile-phone business. Iusacell
has about 6 percent of Mexico’s wireless subscribers, compared
with America Movil’s 70 percent.  “The resolution is positive for Televisa,” said Valeria
Romo, an analyst at Monex Casa de Bolsa in Mexico City, today in
a research note. She recommends buying the shares. “It presents
the opportunity to enter the mobile market, which is valued at
$30 billion and showed growth in 2011 of 3.5 percent.”  Televisa said it had agreed to several antitrust conditions
and is reviewing the verdict. An Iusacell spokesman had no
immediate comment.  Alliance Created  The deal creates an alliance between Televisa and  Ricardo Salinas , Iusacell’s billionaire owner, who also controls
broadcaster TV Azteca SAB. Televisa won approval of the Iusacell
investment by overcoming regulatory concern that it could lead
to collusion between the two broadcasters in the TV business.  Azteca was little changed at 8.48 pesos in Mexico City
trading. Iusacell is closely held.  America Movil  slid 0.7
percent to 16.81 pesos.  The new ruling overturns a vote in January in which the
antitrust agency cited possible collusion and the need to
protect Iusacell’s Totalplay pay-TV business, which competes
with Televisa’s Empresas Cablevision unit.  Under terms of the antitrust settlement, the partnership
can be dissolved if the government fails to auction airwaves for
a third broadcast TV network in the next 24 months. That takes
away the incentive for Televisa and Azteca to slow the auction
process with legal challenges, the antitrust agency said.  Both broadcasters will also have to offer cable and
satellite TV providers the option to buy their over-the-air
channels separately from the cable channels both companies
produce. Televisa said it has created a package of its four
over-the-air channels to offer to carriers.  Televisa’s Position  Iusacell will also transfer ownership of its Totalplay
unit, which sells TV, phone and Internet service to home users
in  Mexico  City, to a separate entity owned by Salinas, meaning
Televisa won’t own a stake in a competitor to its own cable-TV
carrier units.  Televisa has argued that the transaction would bring more
competition to the wireless industry by creating a stronger,
better-funded Iusacell, which sought a restructuring plan with
creditors in 2010 for the second time in four years.  The broadcaster announced the purchase of the stake in
April 2011. It spent the $1.6 billion last year, acquiring debt
that would be convertible into shares equal to 50 percent of
Iusacell once regulators approved the transaction. The debt has
an interest rate of 2 percent.  In addition to Slim’s company, Mexico City-based Iusacell
trails Madrid-based  Telefonica SA (TEF)  in total wireless subscribers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  