-- Temasek Seeks to Boost Quota for Mainland Chinese Securities
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-06-14T03:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/temasek-seeks-to-boost-quota-for-mainland-chinese-securities.html
Temasek Holdings Pte, which holds
stakes in  China ’s biggest banks, said it filed an application to
boost its quota for publicly traded securities in mainland
exchanges to tap the nation’s long-term growth.  The Singapore state-owned investment company is seeking to
increase allocations through the so-called qualified foreign
institutional investor, or QFII, program, it said in an e-mailed
statement today. Only approved institutional investors can buy or
sell yuan-denominated securities under the QFII program.  Temasek, which managed S$193 billion ($151 billion) as of
March 2011, filed the latest application after the China
Securities Regulatory Commission said in April it would more
than double the amount that overseas institutional investors are
allowed to invest in Chinese securities to $80 billion. The
foreign-exchange regulator said last month that it will speed up
the approval process.  “They are obviously bullish on the China A-shares
market,” said Mohammed Apabhai, head of  Asia  trading strategy
at Citigroup Inc. in  Hong Kong , referring to yuan-denominated
stocks on mainland exchanges. “I would expect it’s because they
are thinking there’s more policy easing.”  China lowered its benchmark  interest rate  on June 7, the
first cut in borrowing costs since 2008.  Gross domestic product 
will increase 7.9 percent this quarter, the least in three years,
from 8.1 percent in the previous three months, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Growth
is forecast to quicken to 8.3 percent in the third quarter and
8.4 percent in the fourth, the surveys show.  Long-Term Growth  “Temasek, as an investor who invests for long-term returns,
remains confident and optimistic in China’s long-term growth,”
the Singapore investment company said in the e-mailed statement
today. “We will continue invest in the sectors that support
China’s transforming economy.”  Temasek is seeking to raise its quota by $700 million,
Xinhua News Agency reported earlier.  Temasek spent $2.3 billion investing in shares of
Industrial & Commercial  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  in April, and holds a
5.3 percent stake in the Hong Kong-traded stock of the world’s
biggest bank by market value, according a statement on May 22.  China’s benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 4.8
percent this year, compared with the 0.8 percent decline in the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index and a 0.5 percent gain in the  MSCI World
Index. (MXWO)   At 10 times estimated earnings, the current Shanghai
Composite valuation compares with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s
 multiple  of 11.5.  Chinese regulators had approved a combined $26 billion in
investments for 138 QFIIs as of May 8, according to SAFE’s
 statistics .  Stock Demand  For China, reviving demand for  equities  among investors is
important in a market where individuals own 26.5 percent of the
nation’s stocks, compared with 15.6 percent held by
institutional investors and 57.9 percent by corporate holders,
according to the CSRC’s  investor protection bureau .  “Just because they are applying for more QFII doesn’t mean
they are going to step in to buy right now,” Apabhai said of
Temasek’s QFII application. “They are probably just applying
for it so that they can do something” in the future.  Temasek’s Chief Investment Officer Tan Chong Lee said in an
interview this week the turmoil in  Europe  may result in a market
slump rivaling the 2008 global financial crisis, creating
opportunities for the company to make deals.  Temasek may fund European companies expanding in growth
markets like Asia and  Latin America , or form ventures with firms
seeking mergers or acquisitions, he said, adding he’s optimistic
about China’s long-term potential.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  