-- Chancellor Merkel Says Germany Will Lead Crisis Fight
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-06-14T12:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/merkel-says-germany-will-lead-crisis-fight-g-20-must-help.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  rejected
quick solutions proposed to fix Europe’s financial crisis such
as joint debt sharing, saying Germany can’t save the world
economy alone and fellow Group of 20 countries must help.  Merkel, in a speech to parliament in Berlin today, said the
debt crisis and Germany’s role in stemming it will be the
“central topic” at next week’s G-20 summit in Mexico. While
Germany will use its strength “in the service of European
unity,” the euro and the global economy, Merkel said she
opposes “seemingly easy” solutions that risk backfiring.  “All eyes are on Germany,” she said. “But we also know
that Germany’s power is not infinite. So our responsibility as
 Europe ’s largest economy is to deploy our strength credibly, so
that we can be of full use to Europe.”  Merkel signaled a showdown with global peers at the June
18-19 meetings over ending the crisis that has made Spain the
fourth euro-area country to need a bailout and driven up Italy’s
borrowing costs. Finding a solution is a “Herculean task” that
requires European nations to embrace “political union” step by
step, giving up some national powers in the process, she said.  Pacific Resort  Merkel will travel to the G-20 summit in the Pacific
coastal resort of Los Cabos as  Greece  votes in June 17 elections
that may determine its fate in the euro region.  Spain ’s
announcement that it will ask for as much as 100 billion euros
($126 billion) in aid for its banks has meanwhile failed to
quell global turmoil in financial markets that President  Barack Obama  says is harming the  U.S. economy  in an election year.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond rose to 6.998 percent
today, at the 7 percent level that forced Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  to call for rescues. Equivalent Italian debt yielded
6.17 percent. Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Spain’s
rating to within a step of junk yesterday and said the state’s
market access is “very limited.”  Spanish lenders’ net borrowings from the  European Central
Bank  jumped to a record 287.8 billion euros in May, highlighting
the funding needs of banks that have become the main buyers of
Spanish bonds. Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo
called on the ECB and Germany in particular to do more to help
Spain as Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said bond yields are
not “sustainable.”  More Needed  European policy makers “recognize they’re going to have to
do a bunch more,” U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
said in  Washington  yesterday. “The world’s going to have a
chance this Monday and Tuesday in  Mexico  at the G-20 meeting to
hear from them where they plan to go next.”  Merkel pushed back against her critics, pressing the U.S.
and  Japan  to reduce their debt, urging China and other emerging
economies to make exchange rates more flexible and saying the
world must “resist the temptation” to spur growth with deficit
spending.  “The reasons for the sickly world economy truly don’t lie
only in the euro zone,” Merkel told lower-house lawmakers. It’s
“indispensable” that G-20 leaders pledge budget consolidation
in a joint action plan they will pass in Mexico.  Monti Rebuff  As the crisis threatens to engulf Italy, Merkel’s speech
also amounted to a rebuff of fellow European Union leaders
including French President  Francois Hollande  and Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti , both of whom are calling for Germany to
underwrite joint euro-area debt.  Italy  sold 4.5 billion euros of debt today, with its 3-year
benchmark bond to yield 5.3 percent, up from 3.91 percent at the
last auction one month ago and the highest paid since December.  Budget austerity and measures to promote growth in Europe
remain the twin pillars of stemming the crisis right now, Merkel
said. Her message that Germany can’t shoulder the burden alone
is aimed at “all those in Los Cabos will be looking to Germany,
who are expecting the ‘big bang’ and the solution from Germany -
- such as euro bonds, stability funds, European deposit-
insurance funds, additional billions and much more,” she said.  “All resources, all measures, all packages will end up
being smoke and mirrors if it becomes clear in the end that they
extend beyond  Germany ’s capacity,” she said.  At the same time, Germany is committed to the project of
uniting Europe and the currency union that has grown to 17
members, which was born flawed 20 years ago because the European
Union wasn’t a political union, Merkel said. Voters should know
that Germany faces “a truly historic challenge.”  “So it’s our obligation today to do what has been
neglected, to break the vicious circle of generating ever more
debt and breaking the rules,” she said. Germany is “convinced
that Europe is our destiny and our future. If the euro fails,
Europe fails.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  