-- Esprit Keeps Transformation Plan as Top Executives Leave
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-06-14T23:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/esprit-keeps-transformation-plan-as-top-executives-leave.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330)  said it won’t
change a strategy intended to boost the fashion brand’s revenue,
even after both the chairman and chief executive officer
resigned and the stock dropped to a seven-month low.  CEO Ronald Van der Vis said on a conference call that he’ll
remain in his post for 12 more months, as he’s stepping down
wholly for family reasons and not because of any dispute with
the board. No strategic changes are planned to Esprit’s
transformation program, though some “adjustments” are
possible, Van der Vis said on the call yesterday.  The 44-year-old Dutchman has been trying to boost revenue
from  China  and improve the Hong Kong-based retail chain’s
clothing designs as  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara
lure customers away. In an investor  presentation  last year, the
company said it planned to spend more than HK$18 billion ($2.3
billion) over four years on efforts to revive its brands through
more marketing and a bigger Chinese presence.  Hans-Joachim Koerber resigned as chairman June 13, a day
after the retailer announced Van der Vis was stepping down.
Their exits are the latest hurdle for the casual-clothing
retailer, which in September reported a 98 percent plunge in
fiscal-year profit and said its brand had “lost its soul.” Van
der Vis said the reorganization’s execution is “on track.”  Esprit  fell  12 percent to HK$9.23 at the close in Hong Kong
yesterday, the lowest price since Nov. 23, after dropping 22
percent the previous day. The stock plunged 73 percent last
year.  Europe’s Role  Europe  accounted for 79 percent of Esprit’s revenue in the
12 months ended June 2011, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Fiscal first-half profit dropped 74 percent.  The company hasn’t received any acquisition proposals and
isn’t holding takeover talks, Van der Vis said yesterday.  Vice Chairman  Paul Cheng , 74, declined to step in as
chairman because of his age, and his nomination of Raymond Or
for the position was accepted unanimously by the board, Van der
Vis said. The resignations of the CEO, who said he’s leaving
because his family doesn’t want to relocate from the
Netherlands, and the chairman aren’t connected, he said.  Van der Vis, who joined the company in 2009, announced his
departure a little more than six months after the resignation in
December of Chief Financial Officer Chew Fook Aun. Thomas Tang,
previously CFO at Sino Land Co., succeeded Chew in May.  The CEO is leaving as the company has started showing some
improvement in same-store sales. The retailer said in May that
revenue at outlets open more than a year increased 0.5 percent
in the three months ended March after dropping 4.6 percent in
the six months to December 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  