-- Esprit Plunges as CEO Quits Amid Push to Revive Earnings
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-06-14T01:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/esprit-plunges-as-ceo-quits-amid-push-to-revive-earnings.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330)  plunged for a
second day in Hong Kong trading after its chairman quit within
24 hours of the chief executive officer’s resignation.  “The moves could lead to questions regarding whether there
are issues with the operation/accounts or there is a power
struggle among the management team and the board,” Anne Ling,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a note to clients.  Esprit slumped 10 percent to HK$9.45 as of 9:31 a.m. in
Hong Kong, after plunging 22 percent yesterday.  The departures are the latest hurdle for the casual-
clothing retailer that in September reported a 98 percent
decline in fiscal year profit and said its brand had “lost its
soul.” Van der Vis, a 44-year-old Dutchman, had been trying to
boost China revenue and improve designs as  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) 
and  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara lure customers away.  Hans-Joachim Koerber resigned as chairman yesterday and is
replaced by Raymond Or Ching Fai, vice chairman of Hong Kong-
based  China Strategic Holdings Ltd. (235) , Esprit said after the
market closed yesterday. The retailer announced the departure of
Chief Executive Officer Ronald Van der Vis on June 12.  Van der Vis is leaving as the company started showing some
improvement in same-store sales. The retailer in May said
revenue at outlets open more than a year grew 0.5 percent in the
three months ended March after dropping 4.6 percent in the six
months to December 31.  The chief executive officer’s resignation will be effective
on or before July 1, 2013, in accordance with his service
contract, according to Esprit.  Executive Departures  Van der Vis, who joined the company in 2009, announced his
departure a little more than six months after the resignation in
December of Chief Financial Officer Chew Fook Aun. Thomas Tang,
previously CFO at Sino Land Co., succeeded Chew last month. The
company has said it will execute transformation efforts as
planned.  Esprit plunged 73 percent in  Hong Kong  trading last year
and reported a 74 percent drop in first-half profit in February.
The company got 79 percent of revenue from  Europe  in the 12
months ended June 2011, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  