-- Less Talk, More Stimulus
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-14T22:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/less-talk-more-stimulus.html
(Corrects projected economic expansion for second half of
2013 in seventh paragraph.)  Anyone expecting bold new ideas to
resuscitate the economy from President  Barack Obama ’s  speech  on
Thursday probably came away disappointed.  It’s not that Obama’s  proposals  -- a mix of tax credits for
small businesses and clean energy, and spending on
infrastructure and education -- are bad. It’s just that they’re
shopworn and too timid to break the political stalemate in
 Washington . The Democratic president effectively showcased the
differences between his vision and Republican candidate  Mitt Romney ’s  plan  for a rollback of regulation and $5 trillion in
new tax cuts. Unfortunately, drawing these distinctions won’t do
much for the  U.S. economy ; it’s stalling now.  As in the past two years, economic growth seems to have
 petered out  midyear. Gross domestic product is now expected to
increase just 2 percent in 2012, too little to bring down
unemployment in a meaningful way. A Federal Reserve  report 
released this week shows the blunt force trauma of the
recession, which erased almost two decades of Americans’ wealth
and sent the median net worth of families plummeting to $77,300
-- a level not seen since 1992. Private payrolls remain below
2001 levels, meaning not a single net private-sector job has
been created in more than a decade.  It’s no wonder Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
practically  begged  lawmakers last week to take some of the
burden off the Fed’s shoulders and help goose the economy.  Election-year politics and entrenched Washington gridlock
have stymied most of Obama’s spending proposals. Breaking
through will require more political ingenuity than the president
has shown. Still, he ought to have plenty of incentive: His job
is at stake.  Tax Rebate  So how might one devise a plan to satisfy Republican calls
for tax cuts and austerity and Democrats’ desire for increased
spending to stimulate job growth and help the middle class?
Here’s one idea: Pair a one-time tax rebate with long-term
deficit reduction similar to that offered by the  Simpson-Bowles 
fiscal commission. Such a move would allow Republicans to claim
a spending-cut victory while allowing Democrats to take credit
for putting a sizable check in workers’ pockets.  The cudgel to promote action is the so-called fiscal cliff,
the unholy combination of more than $600 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts slated to take effect in January.
The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office   says  that if the
government fails to extend expiring tax provisions and to blunt
the scheduled spending cuts, growth will slow to 0.5 percent,
with the economy contracting at an annual rate of 1.3 percent in
the first half of 2013 and expanding 2.3 percent in the second
half. In other words, we could be back in a recession.  The rationale for additional  government spending  at this
moment is compelling:  Interest rates  are near a historic low,
and long-term unemployment is threatening the future of
millions. More than 5 million of the 12.7 million people who are
unemployed have been jobless for 27 weeks or more, a higher
portion than at any time over the past 60 years. A new  paper  by
former Obama economic adviser Lawrence Summers and Berkeley
economist J. Bradford Delong suggests that under current
conditions stimulus could ultimately be self-financing; it would
put people back to work and increase the tax base, thus reducing
the long-run debt burden.  Economic Inertia  To be effective, a new stimulus must be temporary, targeted
and big enough to break the economy’s inertia. A rebate can
offer more bang for the buck than other forms of tax relief, in
part because rebates are often perceived by recipients as a
bonus that they can afford to spend. (We are a consumer-driven
economy.) By contrast,  research  shows that most recipients
didn’t even notice the tax relief from Obama’s 2009 Making Work
Pay credit, which provided an average  tax cut  of $508. Another
benefit: Rebates have no risk of becoming permanent, unlike
payroll tax cuts, which are difficult to claw back.  Yes, a tax rebate will only further inflate the federal
deficit. That’s an unfortunate necessity. It’s also why any such
expense now should be paired with a detailed framework for long-
term  deficit reduction . A good blueprint for fiscal rectitude is
the report by the Simpson-Bowles commission, which sensibly
calls for spending caps, reducing tax rates, eliminating
backdoor tax breaks and reforming entitlement programs such as
Social Security.  Speaking in  Ohio , Obama said he sees a determination to
overcome the challenges we face. It would be nice, in the days
ahead, to be able to say the same about Democrats and
Republicans, incumbents and challengers alike.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  why Europe is not ready for a
Greek exit ; William Pesek on  China’s economic slowdown ; Virginia
Postrel on  making your own Michelangelo ;  Jonathan Weil  on
 accounting tricks by Spain’s banks ; Donald Haider on  avoiding
the fiscal cliff ;  Steven Greenhut  on  why “top two” primaries
are bad for democracy .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 