-- Testosterone Makes Bosses Into Jerks, Says Paul Zak
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/testosterone-makes-bosses-into-jerks-says-paul-zak.html
In their models, economists often
invoke the idea of “rational self-interest.”  After years of experiments, neuroeconomist Paul Zak says
that concept is “bupkes when it comes to real people.”  In the lab, Zak has participants play a game in which the
only way to make money is to give some of what you have to a
stranger. He found consistently high levels of trust and
trustworthiness.  What’s at the root of this virtuous circle? Oxytocin.  Zak’s experiments show that the influence in the
bloodstream of oxytocin, long known for its role in sexual
reproduction, especially childbirth and breastfeeding, goes much
further.  In “The Moral Molecule: The Source of Love and
Prosperity,” Zak explores oxytocin’s larger role in all kinds
of human endeavors.  We spoke at Bloomberg world headquarters in  New York .  Lundborg: How does oxytocin work?  Zak: It’s a very short-acting brain chemical that is
released, we found, for a variety of stimuli. We discovered when
someone trusts you, your brain releases oxytocin and motivates
you to reciprocate.  We also found that a variety of moral or pro-social
behaviors are stimulated by oxytocin.  Lundborg: What’s the connection between oxytocin and
morality?  Deadly Sins  Zak: We’re hyper-social creatures. Moral behaviors put the
other person equal to or above ourselves, while in “sinful”
behaviors we put ourselves first. The seven deadly sins separate
you from your group, which is nonadaptive for social creatures
like us.  We have a very specific mass of oxytocin receptors in the
front of the brain that essentially makes it feel good to do
good.  Lundborg: How does prosperity fit into this picture?  Zak: The original work I did that led me to do these
experiments was showing that interpersonal trust levels across
countries strongly predicted which countries are rich or poor.  High-trust countries are rich countries, low-trust
countries are poor countries. And I built some mathematical
models to explain biologically, socially, institutionally where
trust comes from, why  Norway  is very high and  Colombia  is very
low.  Lundborg: Trust is the engine of prosperity?  Zak: When trust is high, there are more transactions that
create wealth and therefore there’s a greater increase in
prosperity.  And if you’re in a situation in which you are very stressed
out, your environment is very uncertain, who do you trust? A
very small group.  Young Males  Lundborg: Greed is not the best strategy?  Zak: For social creatures, it’s almost never adaptive to
have a very short-term strategy, which is to take all the
marbles and run.  There are people who do that -- about 5 percent of the
population we’ve tested are unconditional non-reciprocators, or
as we commonly call them, “bastards.”  Lundborg: How would you describe  Wall Street ?  Zak: There is some evidence that there’s an over-
representation of them on Wall Street.  Most economic transactions are win-win. Financial
transactions on Wall Street in particular kind of modulate
toward a win-lose. That’s a very testosterone-driven behavior.
And who are most professional traders? Young males.  Lundborg: Testosterone makes you selfish?  Zak: The neuroscience of that is if you’re making tons of
money, your social status goes up and your body produces more
testosterone in men and women.  We’ve shown in experiments that when you administer
testosterone to men, they become more selfish and more entitled.
The body is responding to the environment, saying: “You won the
resource lottery! It’s all about you. You have the best genes on
the planet. You rock!”  Testosterone Junkies  Lundborg: You note that being on top turns people into
jerks. Why does that happen?  Zak: You can lead two ways. You can lead by fear,
testosterone. The problem with fear is that people acclimate
very quickly and they give up -- it’s called learned
helplessness. You’ve got to keep raising the stakes and then
people just leave.  Or you can lead by love, oxytocin, and see what happens.
There’s no evidence that I found in my lab that people acclimate
to oxytocin release. The more you do it, the more you lower the
threshold for it, and there’s this feedback loop with dopamine
that says, “Oh, keep doing this -- this feels good.”  I think if you’re a hard-nosed business person, this is the
smartest lesson you can learn. Don’t be a jerk -- it’s counter
to our social nature and people just hate it.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 