-- EU Carbon Needs Set-Aside, Auction Reserve Price, Cyprus Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-06-14T11:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/eu-carbon-needs-set-aside-auction-reserve-price-cyprus-says.html
Europe  should consider improving its
carbon market by curbing an oversupply of permits, imposing a
reserve price at auctions and setting 2030 emission-cutting
goals, said Cyprus’s Environment Minister Sofocles Aletraris.  Policy-makers in the 27-nation European Union are
considering options to strengthen the world’s biggest emissions-
trading program after the price of allowances slumped to a
record on April 4 amid a recession and debt crises in the
region. Action to reinforce the cap-and-trade plan is justified
as the situation serves “neither the economic nor the
environmental interests of Europe,” Aletraris said.  “Cyprus believes that an appropriate response would be the
adoption of a policy consisting of a triad of mutually
reinforcing measures addressing three distinct needs,”
Aletraris, whose country takes over the EU’s rotating presidency
in July, said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions.  The emission caps that the European  emissions trading 
system, also known as the EU ETS, imposes on more than 12,000
facilities owned by manufacturers and utilities were set before
the economic slump, which curbed industrial output.  The program will be oversupplied by permits covering around
1.1 billion metric tons of CO2 discharges by 2012, an amount
equal to about half of the annual emissions limit in the current
five-year trading period of the ETS that started in 2008,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. This surplus may be
transferred into the next stage that runs from 2013 to 2020 and
is referred to as Phase 3.  ‘Prudent and Wise’  The ETS, started in 2005, should be “maintained and
safeguarded at all costs,” and its “prudent and wise
implementation and improvement” can enhance European prospects
for economic stabilization, investment and recovery, Aletraris
said in his response, dated June 8.  “Concerns about the ETS are not only about the price or
quantity of allowances, but also about the credibility of, and
the expectations for the prices of future emissions,” he said.
“Addressing these issues requires remedies that are strategic
as well as tactical, complementary and not piecemeal.”  To tackle the oversupply the EU should start working on
setting aside a number of allowances “to restore future price
and auction revenues to meaningful and attractive levels,”
according to Aletraris. The move would “build up confidence
that the European policy will provide market signals that are
consistent with science, as well as international and strategic
processes,” he said.  Postponing Auctions  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, is
planning to propose next month a measure to postpone auctions of
some allowances from the first years of Phase 3 to a later stage
in that period. It also signaled that a permanent set-aside,
which would amount to canceling a number of permits and
tightening the ETS carbon caps, could be considered at a later
date.  The second element of the EU policy to strengthen the
region’s carbon market could be “negotiating a rising reserve
price on future ETS auctions,” to limit the risks of further
declines in prices for investors and stabilize minimum auction
revenue expectations, according to Aletraris.  “Such action would probably also reduce tensions between
the ETS and complementary measures, and rule out the prospect of
ongoing interventions through further set-asides,” he said. Any
reduction in the number of allowances in the system or imposing
a reserve price would require a revision of the EU law on
emissions trading in a politically contentious process that may
take as long as two years.  Member states  remain divided over the
need to strengthen EU climate policies.  Polish Veto  Europe should also start negotiations on its carbon-
reduction goals for 2030, the Cypriot minister said. The bloc
has a binding target to cut overall emissions by 20 percent in
2020 compared with 1990 levels and a political goal to reduce
greenhouse gas discharges by at least 80 percent by 2050.  The cheapest way for the EU to reach its 2050 aim is to cut
emissions by 40 percent in 2030 and 60 percent in 2040, the
commission said last year in a strategy paper known as the Low-
Carbon Roadmap. While most EU nations support the strategy,
 Poland , which relies on coal for more than 90 percent of its
electricity, vetoed a political statement by environment
ministers on the carbon-cut pathway twice in the past year.  Strategy Paper  Later this month energy ministers are set to discuss
another strategy paper by the commission, the so-called Energy
Roadmap, which shows that the EU needs as much as 2.2 trillion
euros ($2.8 trillion) in power grids alone between 2011 and 2050
as it transforms its economy into a low-carbon one. It also
needs hundreds of billions of euros in industrial energy
equipment, heating and cooling systems, smart meters and devices
for exploiting local renewable energy sources, according to the
paper.  Such investment most probably won’t materialize if carbon
price remains “well below 10 euros a metric ton for the next
several years, instead of the 25 euros to 40 euros projected”
when the EU adopted rules for the third phase of its emissions
trading system, Aletraris said.  EU carbon permits for delivery in December traded at 6.73
euros on the ICE Futures Europe exchange as of 11:06 a.m. in
 London . The contract, which dropped to a record low of 5.99
euros in April, has lost 61 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  