-- Europe Can Learn From U.S. Action on Economy, Nides Says
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-06-14T19:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/europe-can-learn-from-u-s-action-on-economy-nides-says.html
European leaders can learn from the
“bold action” taken by Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  and
 Timothy Geithner , who was president of the  New York  Federal
Reserve, early in the U.S. financial crisis, deputy Secretary of
State Thomas Nides said.  “One of the lessons we learned in that particular crisis
is that you do need to take bold action,” Nides, who served as
chief operating officer of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  from 2005 to 2010,
said today in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “These
things are a contagion. What goes on in Greece affects what goes
on in Spain. What goes on in Spain affects what goes on in
Italy.”  Nides, who is now Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s
deputy for the management and budgeting of U.S. foreign
assistance, said that when the U.S. faced its crisis in 2007 and
2008, “people like  Hank Paulson  and Tim Geithner understood
that very strongly and realized they needed to take very bold
action, as obviously the Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  did.”  Praising the injection of cash into struggling Spanish
banks, Nides said it’s essential to take targeted actions and
that he thinks the  European Central Bank  understands that.  The U.S. is doing its part to boost the global economy by
focusing more than ever on creating opportunities for American
companies overseas and for foreign companies to invest and
create jobs in the U.S., Nides said.  ‘Economic Statecraft’  President  Barack Obama  has set a target of doubling U.S.
exports in the five years ending 2014, and boosting employment
for Americans is at the top of his election-year agenda.  The State Department dubbed today Global Economic
Statecraft Day, spotlighting events at the 240 U.S. embassies
and consulates around the world intended to connect U.S.
businesses with new opportunities and create jobs.  In a video address to U.S. embassies, Obama said it is
essential “to harness our foreign policy to advance our
prosperity here at home.”  U.S. foreign policy  is about “peace and prosperity -- and
this is the prosperity part of the agenda,” Nides said in a
separate interview. The nations that are going to be leaders
this century, are those with the biggest economies, not those
with the largest militaries, he said.  Economic Officers  Nides said the State Department has assigned its 1,000
economic officers around the world to “wake up every day and
think about what they can do” to promote economic growth and
“to make sure they are doing everything they can to grow jobs
in the U.S.”  That means diplomats are trying to break down barriers to
trade, oppose intellectual-property violations, and make sure
U.S. companies have a fair shot at bidding for overseas
contracts, he said.  Nides has worked to encourage international visitors to the
U.S., helping to reduce the wait time for tourist visas. Every
65 tourists visiting the U.S. create one U.S. job, according to
the Commerce Department.  A tourist from  Brazil  used to have to wait about 150 days
for a visit, according to Nides, who said that delay has been
reduced to about five days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  