-- Teva’s Higher-Dose Copaxone Cut MS Relapses in Trial
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-06-14T13:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/teva-s-higher-dose-copaxone-cut-ms-relapses-in-trial.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
said a late-stage trial of a longer-acting version of its
bestselling drug Copaxone reduced relapses from multiple
sclerosis more than a placebo in a clinical trial.  Injecting 40 milligrams of Copaxone three times a week
reduced relapse rates by 34.4 percent compared to a placebo,
Petach Tikvah, Israel-based Teva said in a statement today. Teva
markets a 20-milligram daily injection of the drug, which had
sales of $3.9 billion last year.  Teva, the world’s largest maker of generic drugs, is trying
to stave off competition for Copaxone, which generated 21
percent of its revenue in 2011. Newer treatments such as
 Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Gilenya, and the possible introduction of generics
before Copaxone’s patents expire in the U.S. in 2014, threaten
to erode Teva’s market share.  “The results are positive because they give the company a
slight chance of getting exclusivity on this and possibly a
price premium due to the lower frequency of injections,” Sabina Podval, an analyst at Leader & Co. Investment House Ltd. in  Tel
Aviv , said by telephone. “Still, the ability to compensate for
the expected loss in revenue from the entrance of competitors is
limited as generics will obviously be much cheaper no matter the
dosage.”  Teva’s American depositary receipts fell less than 0.1
percent to $38.53 at 9:55 a.m. in  New York  trading. The stock
declined 1.1 percent to close at 149 shekels in Tel Aviv.  Detailed results from the GALA trial will be presented “in
the near future,” Teva said. The company plans to work with
regulators to determine the next steps for the higher dose, the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  