-- Ex-BP Engineer Faces February Trial in Spill Criminal Case
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-06-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/ex-bp-engineer-faces-february-trial-in-spill-criminal-case-1-.html
A former  BP Plc (BP/)  engineer charged
with destroying evidence sought for a U.S probe of the 2010  Gulf
of Mexico   oil spill  will face a Feb. 25 trial, a judge said.  Kurt Mix, who worked on internal BP efforts to estimate the
amount of oil leaking from the well, was charged with two counts
of obstruction of justice for allegedly deleting text message
strings from his mobile phone. Mix has pleaded not guilty.  U.S. District Judge Stanwood Duval in New Orleans set the
trial date at a scheduling conference with lawyers for the U.S.,
BP and Mix on June 13. His order was filed with the court
yesterday. The judge also directed the government to “provide
all non-expert and expert” evidence to Mix by June 29.  The blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and started millions of barrels of crude
leaking into the Gulf. The Mix prosecution is the first criminal
case to arise from the 2010 spill.  The  Justice Department , which began investigating the
incident in June 2010, said in April it was weighing whether to
file more criminal charges over the spill. The charges against
Mix are likely to be followed by others, U.S. Attorney General
Eric Holder said that month.  ‘Day in Court’  “Kurt Mix looks forward to his day in court,” Joan McPhee, Mix’s attorney, said in a phone interview.  Alisa Finelli, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department,
declined to comment.  A U.S. grand jury had been investigating the spill
estimates,  Federal Bureau  of Investigation Special Agent Barbara
O’Donnell said in a sworn statement filed April 23 in the Mix
case.  “Mix deleted numerous electronic records relating to the
Deepwater Horizon disaster response, including records
concerning the amount of oil potentially flowing from the well,
after being repeatedly informed of his obligation to maintain
such records,” O’Donnell said in the statement.  Mix deleted the e-mails in October 2010 despite receiving
multiple notices from London-based BP in the weeks after the
spill, “which stated on the cover, in bold and underlined type,
that instant messages and  text messages  needed to be
preserved,” the U.S. said in its indictment issued May 2.  Mix brought the deletions to the attention of the
government, McPhee said at his arraignment last month.  ‘Thousands of E-mails’  “Mr. Mix saved thousands of e-mails and hundreds of text
messages,” McPhee said. The information saved includes flow
rate data, work on the efforts to contain the spill, and his
personal log notes, she said.  The Deepwater Horizon accident prompted hundreds of
lawsuits against London-based BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier,
Switzerland-based owner and operator of the rig; and  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services.  The U.S. government also filed a lawsuit against BP,
Transocean and BP’s partners in the well,  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s MOEX
Offshore 2007 and The Woodlands, Texas-based  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC) , alleging violations of federal pollution laws.  Louisiana 
and Alabama sued as well. MOEX has settled the federal pollution
claims.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier , who is overseeing these
lawsuits in New Orleans, set a Jan. 14 date for a nonjury trial
to determine fault for the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig and resulting undersea leak.  $7.8 Billion  BP agreed to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to resolve most
private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss, property damage
and spill and cleanup-related injuries. The settlement, reached
March 2, days before a scheduled trial on liability for the 2010
spill, doesn’t cover federal government claims and those of Gulf
Coast states Louisiana and Alabama.  It also excludes claims of financial institutions, casinos,
private plaintiffs in parts of Florida and  Texas , and residents
and businesses claiming harm from the Obama administration’s
moratorium on deep-water drilling prompted by the spill. The
plaintiffs’ and government claims against BP’s contractors on
the doomed Macondo well also remain.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Mix, 12-cr-0017, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ). The civil
case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon in the
Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 