-- Ex-Barrick CEO Paid Least Relative to Profit
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-06-14T14:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/ex-barrick-ceo-paid-least-relative-to-profit.html
Aaron Regent, who was fired last
week as chief executive officer of  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  after
failing to boost the stock price, generated more profit for
every dollar of pay last year than any of his peers in  Canada 
and the U.S.  Barrick, the world’s largest gold miner, earned $514.98 for
every dollar the Toronto-based company paid Regent for 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was more than the
CEOs of the six other largest North American gold companies.
 Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the second-largest producer by market value,
reported $172.09 of net income for every dollar awarded CEO
Chuck Jeannes.  Yamana Gold Inc. (YRI)  CEO Peter Marrone brought in
$47.88 in profit for every dollar of pay.  Executive compensation is coming under increasing scrutiny,
with gold mining CEOs among the best-paid in Canada last year,
even as their companies’ shares failed to match gains in gold
prices.  “I would like to see the compensation more directly tied
to the stock prices,” Pawel Rajszel, a Toronto-based analyst at
Veritas Investment Research, said in an interview. “Then you’ll
see these producers be more disciplined in terms of capital
allocation.”  Stock Disappointed  Peter Munk , Barrick’s founder and chairman, replaced Regent
on June 6 with former Chief Financial Officer Jamie Sokalsky
because the company was “disappointed” by the share
performance after a 15 percent decline last year in  New York .
Gold miners including Barrick and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , the two
biggest by sales, have tried to reverse declining share prices
even as gold increased 32 percent in the past 24 months.  Barrick shares fell 5.7 percent through yesterday in
Toronto and rose 15 percent in New York since Regent began as
CEO on Jan. 16, 2009. That was better than the 50 percent drop
in the 16-member Philadelphia Gold & Silver Index of precious
metals producers. Over the same period gold futures in New York
doubled.  Regent earned $8.71 million last year, excluding pension
costs and including all other types of compensation. That was
down 0.2 percent from a year earlier. Goldcorp’s Jeannes earned
$10.93 million in 2011 and Yamana CEO Marrone was the highest-
paid gold CEO, receiving $11.45 million in compensation.  Jeannes and Marrone both earned more than the heads of
Canada’s two largest banks by assets, Royal Bank of Canada and
 Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)   Gordon Nixon , CEO of Royal, was awarded
total compensation of C$10.1 million ($9.82 million) and  Edmund
Clark , TD CEO, earned C$11.4 million.  Better Educated  Regent generated more earnings for every dollar paid in
2011 than Nixon, who brought in C$480.40, and less than Clark
who earned TD C$517.45 for every dollar paid. The calculations
are based on net income and compensation figures in proxy
circulars.  “CEO or executive pay in the Canadian gold sector has been
one of the highest in Canada for the last several years,” said
Steve Chan, principal at  Hugessen Consulting Inc.  in Toronto,
which advises boards on compensation. “I think that’s in large
part helped along by the strong run up in the price of gold and
subsequently the demand for talent in that space.”  Investors are becoming less supportive. This year, 95.6
percent of Barrick’s shareholders at its annual meeting voted to
back the company’s executive compensation policy in a non-
binding resolution, compared with 97.2 percent last year.
Investors in  Kinross Gold Corp. (K) , Canada’s third-largest producer
by sales, voted 78.5 percent in favor at the 2012 meeting, down
from 95.7 percent a year ago.  “Shareholders are asking more questions, better questions
and becoming generally more educated around compensation,” Luis
Navas, vice-chairman of Global Governance Advisors, which
advises companies on compensation, said in an interview.  “In my experience, shareholders are not at all against
paying higher levels of compensation as long as the
justification is there,” he said.  Record Earnings  Barrick  reported  record earnings last year, as higher gold
prices boosted profit margins. Gold has gained more than 400
percent in the last 10 years and rose 10 percent in 2011. Prices
this year have increased 3.4 percent.  “That rising tide over the last decade has lifted all
boats, so I think investors are more forgiving when the price of
gold is going up,” Rajszel said. “Now that the gold price is
kind of flatlining and costs are still going up, investors are
scratching their heads and wondering why they are paying these
CEOs to do these M&A deals when they could just buy the ETFs.”
Gold ETFs are  exchange traded funds  that track the price of
bullion rather than invest in shares of companies.  Gold miners face rising costs for labor, raw-materials and
equipment. The average so-called cash production cost for large
producers jumped 14 percent to $542 per ounce of gold in 2011
from a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Industries.  Highly Cyclical  Barrick said last month it was reviewing cost estimates for
its $5 billion Pascua-Lama gold and silver project on the Chile-
Argentina border because of wage and raw material inflation.
Newmont, based in  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , may have to raise
the $4.8 billion budget for its Conga mine in  Peru  after
political opposition.  Andy Lloyd , a spokesman for Barrick, declined to comment.
 Omar Jabara , a spokesman for Newmont had no comment on the
company’s approach to executive compensation beyond the details
provided in its proxy statement. A Yamana spokesman couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  Steve Mitchell , a spokesman for Kinross, said CEO Tye Burt
requested that he not be considered for a cash bonus “in light
of our  disappointing  share price performance in 2011.” Burt’s
cash compensation fell by 66 percent as a result, Mitchell said
in a phone interview.  David Christensen , CEO of ASA Ltd. in  San Mateo ,
California, which manages $600 million and invests in precious-
metals companies, said the industry is highly cyclical.  “You need to motivate a management team to take a job
which is higher-risk than they would have in making widgets and
you need to incentivize them to stay with that job where they
could have opportunities elsewhere,” he said.  Ratio Rose  Regent was the only CEO of a big North American gold
producer whose net-income to salary ratio increased. It was up
from $410.36 in 2010. In 2009, the year he was hired, he had
total compensation of $20.6 million.  CEO compensation shouldn’t necessarily depend heavily on
the share-price performance, Caesar Bryan, portfolio manager at
Gabelli & Co. Inc., said in a telephone interview.  “It seems to me that you can execute as an executive and
if your shares are out of fashion, as the gold shares have been
in the last few years, I’m not sure you should be
extraordinarily punished for that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa  at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  