-- Ex-Morgan Banker Proposes Steps to Curb Japan Insider Acts
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-06-14T08:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/ex-morgan-banker-proposes-steps-to-curb-japan-insider-trading.html
Japan ’s ruling party will consider
limiting the period for public stock offerings to four days to
curtail share declines and discourage  insider trading , said
lawmaker and former Morgan Stanley banker Tsutomu Okubo.  A  Democratic Party of Japan  working group will discuss
truncating the period from the announcement of sales to
settlement of the deals from the current minimum 15 days, Okubo
said in an interview. The panel, which meets for the first time
tomorrow, was set up to examine ways to restore confidence in
markets rocked by trading and accounting scandals.  Japanese regulators are investigating short selling by
investors who used information leaked from underwriters
including  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  before stock offerings were
announced. The benchmark  Topix Index (TPX)  has lost 16 percent since
the securities watchdog revealed the first case on March 21.  “We need to discuss how to make the  Tokyo  market
attractive again,” said Okubo, lead director of the upper
house’s financial affairs committee. “We should stamp out this
environment that has given investors the desire to conduct
insider trading.”  Japanese law requires at least two weeks from the
announcement of equity offerings to the conclusion of the
transactions, in order to give investors time to decide whether
to participate. The period also gives shareholders ample time to
sell the stock on concern about dilution, Okubo, 51, said. That
fuels the incentive for insider trading as  hedge funds  and asset
managers bet they can sell borrowed stock and buy it back at a
lower price, he said.  Confidentiality Rules  Under the proposal, lead underwriters would begin marketing
equity offerings before they are announced, on the basis that
they and investors adhere to strict rules on confidentiality,
with punishments for breaches, said Okubo, who worked at  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  for about 10 years until entering parliament in 2004.
That would bring Japanese practice in line with markets
including the U.S., he said.  “Shortening the period will discourage insider trading as
it will reduce the opportunity to reap gains,” Takashi Kaneko,
a professor of finance at  Keio University  in Tokyo, said in an
interview. “It will also be good for the issuers because they
can increase the total amount of financing as the price won’t
become distorted by the short sales.”  Discuss Penalties  The team of 15 DPJ lawmakers will examine current Japanese
laws for insider trading and compare them with regulations and
punishments in the U.S. and  Europe , according to a faxed
document sent to Bloomberg. The group will also discuss how to
penalize underwriters that provide tips and increase fines for
those that trade on them, Okubo said.  “If Japan’s regulations aren’t sufficient compared with
those overseas, we need to strengthen them to bolster
credibility,”  Yasuhiro Sato , chairman of the Japanese Bankers
Association, a group that represents the country’s biggest
lenders, told reporters in Tokyo today. “Lead underwriters bear
a heavy responsibility.”  In the four cases revealed by the  Securities and Exchange
Surveillance Commission  since March, the watchdog has
recommended an average fine of 3.7 million yen ($47,000) for the
institutions found to have benefited from insider trading. They
include a former unit of  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. (8309) ,
Asuka Asset Management Co., and U.S. proprietary trading firm
First  New York  Securities LLC.  The underwriters whose employees leaked the information
haven’t been penalized yet.  Nomura Employees  Nomura on June 8 apologized for its employees’ role in
leaking information ahead of share sales that the investment
bank managed in 2010. The acknowledgment confirmed that it was
the unidentified underwriter found by the SESC to have provided
information on public offerings by  Inpex Corp. (1605) ,  Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. (8411)  and Tokyo Electric Power Co.  Mizuho, Japan’s third-biggest bank by market value,
announced its 750 billion yen share sale on June 25, 2010. It
released the pricing on July 13 and settled transactions on July
21. Mizuho  shares  fell about 13 percent during the period.  The SESC found that an employee of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
gave information on a 2010 offering by Nippon Sheet Glass Co.,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter. New York-
based JPMorgan said on May 29 that it’s “cooperating fully”
with the authorities on the matter.  “It’s positive to see the public offering period could be
shortened,” said Kaneko, who studies  equity capital markets  at
Keio. “But it may be just a stopgap measure. We need to analyze
what the brokerages’ real motivations are for leaking
information to their clients, and how to eradicate this.”  Okubo led credit and derivative product business at New
York-based Morgan Stanley. He became a managing director in the
investment banking department in 2002.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  