-- Ex-SEC Attorney Hudson Pleads Not Guilty to Wire Fraud
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/ex-sec-attorney-hudson-pleads-not-guilty-to-wire-fraud.html
Daryl Hudson III, a former senior
counsel in the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
enforcement division, pleaded not guilty in federal court after
being charged with seven counts of  wire fraud .  Hudson, who is chairman and chief executive officer of
Hampden Kent Group LLC, was arraigned yesterday in U.S. District
Court in  Albuquerque , New Mexico. He was indicted May 23 and
faces as long as 30 years in prison and a $1 million fine on
each charge if convicted.  Hudson, 59, of the  District of Columbia , is accused of
engaging in a scheme to defraud Santa Fe-based Bluenergy
Solarwind Inc. by falsely representing that he could secure debt
funding to help the company grow, according to a statement by
New Mexico U.S. Attorney Kenneth J. Gonzales. He worked at the
SEC from 1982 to 1985, according to the indictment.  In July 2011, Hudson accepted $85,000 as a partial retainer
payment from Bluenergy, which hired him to secure about
$80 million in debt funding for the company’s effort to begin
manufacturing solar  wind turbines . Hudson provided Bluenergy
with a falsified receipt showing that investor funding was
available, according to the indictment.  When Hudson was fired in August 2011 after the company
raised questions about the legitimacy of the receipt, he refused
to return the retainer, according to the indictment.  “The allegations in the indictment concern one disgruntled
client who, over a three-week period, misled my client about its
business and in fact could not demonstrate any product or
revenues to obtain financing,” David A. Streubel, a lawyer for
Hudson, said in an e-mail yesterday.  When the full story is explained in court, he said, “Mr.
Hudson will be completely exonerated.”  The case is U.S. v. Hudson, 12-01250, U.S. District Court,
District of  New Mexico  (Albuquerque).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  