-- Mexico’s Peso Strengthens on Speculation Fed to Spur U.S. Growth
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-06-14T21:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/mexico-s-peso-strengthens-on-speculation-fed-to-spur-u-s-growth.html
Mexico ’s peso rose the most in four
days after falling U.S. consumer prices fueled speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will act to spur growth in the economy of the
Latin American country’s biggest trading partner.  The peso appreciated 1 percent to 13.9003 per dollar at 4
p.m. in Mexico City. It was the biggest rally since June 8.  U.S. reports before the Fed’s meeting next week showed
consumer prices fell 0.3 percent in May, the most in more than
three years, and initial jobless claims unexpectedly climbed by
6,000 to 386,000 last week. Mexico depends on exports for about
30 percent of its gross domestic product, sending 80 percent of
them to its northern neighbor.  “It’s a given that every time we get weak data here in the
U.S., QE3 talk begins to increase,” Aryam Vazquez, an economist
for global  emerging markets  at  Wells Fargo & Co ., said in an e-
mailed message. “These robust liquidity prospects certainly aid
emerging-market assets such as the Mexican peso.”  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Neel Kashkari said
today at the Bloomberg Asset Management Summit in Boston that
the Fed will probably start a third round of quantitative
easing, known as QE3.  The peso extended its rally amid reports of plans by
central banks. Bloomberg News reported that U.K. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  and  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn
King are preparing two programs to increase the flow of credit.  Reuters reported that central banks are prepared to
coordinate actions if needed to boost liquidity in financial
markets. The news service cited officials linked to the Group of
20 nations. Mexico will host a G-20 summit in the resort town of
Los Cabos on June 18-19.  Concern over how Europe’s debt crisis would drag on the
global economy and affect demand for Mexican exports has helped
fuel a 6.4 percent decline in the peso since the end of April.  The yield on Mexican local-currency bonds due in 2024
declined three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.07
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price rose
0.38 centavo to 134.38 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  