-- Mexico Replaces China as U.S. Supplier With No Wage Gains: Jobs
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-06-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/mexico-replaces-china-as-u-s-supplier-with-no-wage-gains-jobs.html
Julio Don Juan makes $400 a month at
a noisy, cramped  Mexico  City call center. Without a raise in
three years, he says he had to pull his 7-year-old son out of a
special-needs school he can no longer afford.  In some places he might seek another job. Not in Mexico,
where wages after inflation have risen at an annual pace of 0.4
percent since 2005 -- worse than other nations in the region
including Brazil, Colombia and Uruguay, according to the
 International Labour Organization . Close to a third of Mexicans
toil in the informal economy without steady income. Julio Don
Juan says many would envy him.  The cheap labor that is helping Mexico surpass China as a
low-cost supplier of manufacturing goods to the U.S. -- and
lured companies including  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  -- has restrained
progress for many of the country’s 112 million citizens. While
Enrique Pena Nieto, the front-runner in polls to capture the
July 1 presidential vote, has said wages are too low, whoever
wins confronts the challenge of boosting workers’ incomes but
not so much that assembly lines leave for other markets.  “The trick isn’t only to pay better salaries, it’s to make
raises more sustainable,” said Sergio Luna, chief economist at
Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit in Mexico City. “We have to be
more productive, but it won’t be easy because it implies
changing the status quo.”  Mexico’s low wages, cheap peso and surging auto shipments
to the U.S. -- which buys 80 percent of its exports -- have
increased manufacturing competitiveness during the past decade
as labor costs in China and Japan have risen.  Sounder Footing  This has put Mexico’s economy on a sounder footing than
 Brazil ’s to weather a prolonged global downturn. After trailing
growth in Latin America’s biggest economy during the past decade
-- and watching as a commodities boom allowed Brazil to increase
wages an annual average 3.4 percent above inflation from 2005 to
2011 -- Mexico is poised to outperform Brazil for the second
consecutive year.  President  Felipe Calderon ’s government forecasts gross
domestic product will expand 3.5 percent this year and says
exports will probably surpass a 2011 record of $350 billion. By
contrast, Brazil will grow around 2.5 percent, according to a
central bank survey of economists this month.  “A changing of the guard is slowly but surely taking
place,”  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  analysts wrote in a May report.
“Ten years from now, we are confident that Mexico will likely
be seen as having become the most dynamic economy in the
region.”  Trade Agreements  Low wages aren’t Mexico’s only attraction: Inflation that
reached 180 percent in 1988 has been kept under control by a
central bank that since January 2010 has been under the
stewardship of Agustin Carstens. The former deputy managing
director of the  International Monetary Fund  has kept the
benchmark rate at 4.5 percent since taking office, helping to
fuel a rally in  government bonds .  Investors also benefit from laws that limit the government
deficit and trade accords with more than 30 nations, including
the  North American Free Trade Agreement  with the U.S. and
Canada. Mexico also offers savings for companies that want to be
closer to American consumers, after a tripling of  oil prices  in
the past decade raised transportation costs for Asian
manufacturers.  Nissan, Japan’s second-largest automaker, shifted
production of low-cost cars to Thailand and Mexico in recent
years to counter losses as the yen appreciated, while Mexico’s
peso slumped 18 percent in the past six years against the  U.S.
dollar . The company’s Mexican output hit a record 607,087 cars
and light-duty trucks last year, rising 20 percent from 2010.  The latest company to expand operations is  Plantronics
Inc. (PLT) , which this month announced a $30 million investment after
closing its plant in China as wages began rising there, said
Cesar Lopez Ramos, the company’s Mexico legal representative.  Human Capital  Mexico has proven more attractive for the Santa Cruz,
California-based headset maker because of its steady wages and
“human capital that is more developed and capable of not only
making products but innovating,” Lopez Ramos said in a
telephone interview from Tijuana.  Some Mexicans criticize Calderon’s  National Action Party ,
or PAN, for not spreading the benefits of economic stability
more widely during 12 years of rule. In the absence of a
stronger domestic market, jobs remain heavily dependent on U.S.
consumers and foreign-operated assembly plants, known as
maquiladoras. Unemployment, currently at  4.9 percent , has been
more than double a 2000 low of 2.2 percent since 2009.  “We’re scraping by,” said Julio Don Juan, 37, the call-
center worker. “Because costs keep rising, I’m actually getting
a pay cut each year, rather than a raise.” He lives with his
parents, who help him care for his son.  Low Inflation  Economy Minister Bruno Ferrari says that low inflation and
expanded social programs have reduced poverty during the past
dozen years and stemmed declines in purchasing power from
previous decades, he told reporters May 8 in Mexico City. The
share of Mexicans suffering from food poverty -- lack of access
to healthy, nutritious meals -- fell to 19 percent in 2010 from
24 percent in 2000, according to government data.  A press official from the Mexican  finance ministry  didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  Partly as a result of muted wage growth, Mexico’s per-
capita GDP has risen 48 percent since 1999 on a purchasing-
power-parity basis, the least among Latin America’s seven
biggest economies, according to the IMF. By comparison,
 Venezuela  climbed 51 percent, Brazil increased 73 percent and
 Peru  more than doubled.  Time Lost  The lack of opportunities has spurred an exodus of 12
million Mexicans to the U.S. in the past four decades, more than
half illegally, according to a study published in April by the
Washington-based Pew Research Center. While net migration
dropped to zero between 2005 and 2010, and some Mexican
immigrants may be returning home because of the weak U.S. job
market, departures northward could resume if the U.S. expansion
picks up, Pew said.  “We need to make up for time lost over the past four or
five years in the area of employment and salaries,” former
President Vicente Fox, of Calderon’s PAN party, said in a May 2
interview in Mexico City. “The challenge for the next
government is very big.”  Dissatisfaction with the economy is propelling Pena Nieto’s
bid to return his  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI, to
power for the first time since Fox ended its 71-year reign in
2000. The 45-year-old former governor of Mexico state had 37.2
percent support in a June 8-10 poll by Consulta Mitofsky,
compared with 25.1 percent for  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , who
narrowly lost to Calderon in 2006, and 21 percent for Josefina Vazquez Mota of the PAN.  Raise Salaries  If elected, Pena Nieto says he’ll raise salaries gradually,
by improving productivity. To do so, he promises to support
legislation making it easier to hire and fire workers, luring
more companies into the formal economy where they can take out
loans more easily and make investments. He also favors ending
state-run Petroleos Mexicanos’ monopoly; revenue for Latin
America’s largest oil producer funds about a third of Mexico’s
public budget.  “In no way are we willing to sustain Mexico’s
competitiveness through low salaries, nor can we raise salaries
artificially through populist measures,” Luis Videgaray, Pena
Nieto’s campaign manager and his finance chief when the
candidate was governor, said in a May 30 interview. “The only
way to increase productivity is through reforms.”  Pena Nieto’s rivals say he isn’t capable of bringing about
the change he promises and returning the PRI to power would
reignite corruption that blossomed under its previous rule.  Poor Performance  Boosting Mexico’s productivity won’t be easy, given the
poor performance of the country’s schools and the size of its
underground economy, which the government says employs 29
percent of the workforce.  The nation’s education system ranks last out of 34
countries for enrolled high school-age students, behind regional
rivals Chile, Argentina and Brazil, according to a 2011 study by
the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. The study included non-OECD members.  Improving education and generating better-paying jobs may
also help the next government turn the tide in the battle
against the nation’s drug cartels. A bloody turf war between
rival gangs has claimed more than 47,000 lives since Calderon
took office in 2006 and the government estimates that the drug
war shaves 1.2 percentage points off economic output annually.  Skill Shortages  Delphi Automotive Plc (DLPH) , the former parts unit of  General
Motors Co. (GM) , has been addressing the skilled-labor shortage by
training engineering students at its factories in the border
city of  Ciudad Juarez . About half of the Troy, Michigan-based
company’s global workforce of 101,000 is employed in its 46
Mexico plants, compared with less than 30 percent in China.  While wages for some engineering jobs are rising, Delphi
isn’t concerned that salaries will spike anytime soon, said
Enrique Calvillo, the company’s human-resources manager in
Mexico.  “We are always monitoring this, and we don’t see the
possibility of an extreme boom in the next two or three years,”
he said in a telephone interview from Ciudad Juarez.  That’s bad news for Antonio Chavero, who makes less than
$1,000 a month as an engineering supervisor with three decades
of experience in the car industry and who works at a parts plant
in the central state of Queretaro. While he does metalwork in
his basement to supplement his income and support his daughter,
who is a teenage mother, his family still doesn’t earn enough to
eat meat more than once a week, he said.  “I supervise 15 workers,” Chavero said. “I should be
making more money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  