-- F-22’s Balky Vests Add Clue in Mystery of Ailing Pilots
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-06-14T21:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/f-22-s-balky-vests-add-clue-in-mystery-of-ailing-pilots.html
A potentially faulty pressure vest
is the latest clue in a yearlong mystery over why  Air Force 
pilots flying  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-22 Raptor keep getting
dizzy and disoriented.  Pilots have been instructed to stop using the vest during
routine flight operations as the Air Force works on a fix, the
service’s Air Combat Command said yesterday. The vest, part of a
“G suit” used to help pilots avoid blacking out during high-
speed maneuvers, “increases the difficulty of pilot breathing
under certain circumstances,” according to an e-mailed
statement.  A Navy dive unit assisting in the investigation found “an
enormous failure rate” among pressure vests it tested, Senator
Mark Warner, a  Virginia  Democrat who was briefed by the Air
Force this week, said today.  Unable to explain episodes of dizziness, the Air Force is
looking at everything from the prosaic -- hoses, masks and now G
suits -- to the top-secret coatings and adhesives used in the
plane’s radar-absorbing stealth skin that makes it harder to
track. So far, all the engineers and investigators have come up
short of a solution to symptoms that include what’s been called
a “Raptor cough.”  “The bottom line is we don’t have a single causative
factor,” Brigadier General Daniel Wyman, the Air Combat
Command’s surgeon general, said in an interview this week.  About two dozen pilots and six ground-maintenance workers
have reported symptoms associated with a lack of oxygen. There
have been 11 reported incidents since the plane resumed flying
operations last year after a four-month halt because of safety
concerns.  Pilots’ Doubts  A majority of F-22 pilots surveyed early last year said
they “did not feel confident” in the plane’s oxygen system,
according to an Air Force document released today by Warner and
Representative Adam Kinzinger, an Illinois Republican. That
finding contributed to the decision to halt flights last year,
the service said.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  imposed new safety measures
last month that include limiting flight durations and speeding
the installation of back-up oxygen systems.  No oxygen problem was detected before the Raptor was
declared ready for combat in 2005.  “I don’t have any ready answers to why we are experiencing
a serious problem that apparently didn’t surface during the
supposedly extensive testing the Air Force did,” Thomas Christie, who was the Pentagon’s top weapons tester from 2001 to
2005, when the plane was in development, said in an interview.  ‘Hangar Queen’  The Pentagon has spent $67 billion buying 188 of the
supersonic jets, which have never flown in combat. It plans to
spend $11.7 billion to upgrade the planes at a time when the
Pentagon is cutting spending after a decade of war in Iraq and
 Afghanistan .  The Raptor has been called “the most expensive, corroding
hangar queen ever” by  Arizona  Senator  John McCain , the top
Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee.  The oxygen deficiencies promise to require even more money
to fix. Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin, the  world’s
largest  defense contractor, won a $19 million contract last week
for the back-up oxygen supply system.  “It really is a conundrum,” said Jeffrey Sventek,
executive director of the Aerospace Medical Association, whose
annual conference last month included a briefing by the Air
Force on the F-22 investigation.  Flight Suits  The Air Force said yesterday that it’s looking at whether
the equipment donned by F-22 pilots may be restricting their
ability to breathe.  “Testing has determined that the upper pressure garment
increases the difficulty of pilot breathing under certain
circumstances,” Lieutenant Colonel Edward Sholtis, an Air
Combat Command spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We’re
also looking at the layering of other aircrew flight equipment
as contributing to that difficulty.”  The service is looking in particular at the flight suits,
worn in combination with the pressure vests, by F-22 pilots at
Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson in  Alaska  and at Joint Base
Langley-Eustis in Virginia, according to a government official
briefed on the latest information.  The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because
the investigation is being handled in private, said
investigators suspect the combination of clothing may be
restricting a pilot’s ability to expand his chest and take a
full breath.  ‘Leading Theory’  “Obviously, the pressure suits are kind of the leading
theory at this point,” Kinzinger, the Illinois lawmaker, said
today on a conference call with reporters. “The thing to keep
in mind is it’s just theory.”  Warner, whose constituents include pilots at Langley, said
he wants to see “continued progress in the testing of suits.
We’re going to stay on this until it gets resolved.”  The Air Force isn’t declaring the case solved.  “The upper pressure garment is not ‘the’ cause of
physiological incidents, and we still have other variables to
work through before we can determine what the major factors are
and how they interact to produce the number of unexplained
incidents we’ve seen,” Sholtis said.  Vest Maker  The pressure vest is made by Sewing Technology Inc., a
closely held company based in Buffalo,  New York , according to
the Air Force. Lisa Donhauser, a co-owner of the company, said
the Air Force hasn’t contacted her about any concerns with the
pressure vest, which the company has made for F-15 and F-16
jets.  “I do not believe that this vest would be contributing to
this situation, as thousands of these vests have been worn and
produced over the last 20-plus years without any concern that I
am aware of,” she said today in an e-mailed statement.  The Air Force probe focused initially on the plane’s On-
Board Oxygen Generating System built by  Honeywell International
Inc. (HON)  Honeywell, based in  Morris Township ,  New Jersey , has said
the system, which provides enriched oxygen to the pilot, is
performing as designed.  ‘Common Design’  Retired General Gregory Martin, who headed a study of the
F-22 for the Air Force Scientific Advisory Board, told reporters
in March that the system “might not produce as much oxygen as
it would when it was not under G,” or a high level of
acceleration. Still, he said the oxygen level was “never in an
area of concern.”  The oxygen system is “a common design,” Charles Oman, a
senior research engineer and lecturer who specializes in
aerospace physiology at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said in an interview.
“That’s why everyone was so mystified.”  Wyman, the surgeon general, said the oxygen system in the
F-22 is unique because it funnels highly concentrated oxygen
directly to the pilot, instead of being mixed with air from the
cockpit. While the F-22 also operates at higher altitudes and
air speeds than other fighters, Wyman said evaluations show its
oxygen system “works as advertised.”  Stealth Skin  With answers still elusive, critics of the plane such as
Pierre Sprey say the toxic coatings used for the stealth skin
may be entering the plane’s air intakes and fouling the oxygen
flow.  “That’s the No. 1 candidate,” Sprey, who was an Air Force
architect of the F-16 fighter and the A-10 ground-attack plane
in the 1970’s and 1980’s, said in an interview. “There’s no
candidate that comes closer to filling the bill on the
evidence.”  Raptor pilots also have reported suffering from a
persistent cough and vertigo, symptoms not associated with
classic hypoxia, or deprivation of oxygen, Sprey said.  The stealth coatings theory also may explain why five
ground-crew technicians also have reported symptoms, even though
they are never in the air using the oxygen system.  “This airplane is constantly being reglued, which is why
the maintenance guys came down with these symptoms,” Sprey
said.  While the Air Force is investigating that theory, it has no
evidence to support it, Sholtis said.  “If the stealth coating, adhesives or other materials were
off-gassing or otherwise leaking contaminants into the pilot’s
air supply, you would expect to see significant amounts of
harmful chemicals or other evidence of toxicity” when air
samples are chemically analyzed, Sholtis said by e-mail.  Difficult to Say  “We don’t see the evidence,” he said. “So it’s difficult
for us to say with any confidence that that kind of
contamination is occurring.”  Sventek, a physiologist who ran oxygen chambers for the Air
Force for decades, said he is skeptical of the stealth-skin
theory.  “I would find it hard to believe that once the skin is
cured that there would be any off-gassing,” or release of toxic
gases into the air, he said. “That would be a stretch.”  Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman  Carl Levin 
indicated the Air Force was doing all it could to get to the
bottom of the oxygen mystery.  “The long-term modernization programs certainly depend on
the F-22 being safe for our pilots to fly, but there is no
reason at this point to believe that the Air Force cannot solve
this current problem,” Levin, a Michigan Democrat, said in a
statement.  The F-22 can be used in combat if needed even with its
undiagnosed problems, Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter 
said at a May 30 forum in  Washington .  With 11 unexplained incidents out of 12,000 sorties since
the flight ban was lifted last year, the hypoxia rate remains
relatively low, Wyman, the surgeon general, said.  “We have pilots flying daily, and this isn’t happening to
them,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  