-- MF Global Brokerage Disputes to ‘Heat Up,’ Lawyer Says
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-06-14T16:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/mf-global-parent-disputes-with-brokerage-over-2-3-billion-1-.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s disputes
with its brokerage unit will “heat up” in coming months as
arguments over $2.3 billion in claims proceed, lawyer  Brett Miller  told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan 
court today.  Separately, the brokerage unit announced in a statement
today that under an agreement with CME Group, the brokerage’s
exchange, another $130 million will be recovered for customers.  Miller, updating Glenn on progress since a June 4 report
from MF Global Holdings’ trustee  Louis Freeh , said disputed
amounts with the brokerage include $556 million in securities
claims, $90 million in futures claims, and another $1.6 billion
related to funding amounts. The trustee will soon file
objections that will “set the stage” for arguments over the
amounts, Miller said.  “We have had cooperation in responding to some of our
requests, for others we have not,” Miller told Glenn.  Freeh has been unwinding the parent company under Chapter
11 of the U.S. bankruptcy code in an effort to repay creditors.
A separate trustee, James Giddens, is overseeing the brokerage
unit, MF Global Inc., which is liquidating under the Securities
Investor Protection Act to repay customers. Both trustees issued
reports June 4 on a their own probes into how the company failed
and have been at odds over whether certain sums belong to
creditors or customers.  ‘Some Glitches’  Freeh’s June 4 report said the parent company may have more
than $3 billion of claims against its affiliates and units.  Miller also told Glenn today that proceedings in the U.K.
over a disputed $700 million in funds are proceeding. Glenn said
he will “engage in court-to-court communication” with U.K.
courts to facilitate an end to the dispute. A trial in 2013 over
the dispute may be expected, Glenn said.  “As far as cooperation there have been some glitches,”
James Kobak, a lawyer for Giddens said in court today. “There
are differences between the estates.”  Kobak said Giddens has a “respectful relationship” with
Freeh. Kobak said that the brokerage continues to have dialogue
with the U.K. unit and wants to clear up that issue as soon as
possible to return funds to customers.  According to Giddens’ statement today, the deal with CME
Group covers $175 million of MF Global Inc.’s property which CME
Group has had possession of. Of that, $16.5 isn’t related to
customer claims and will be returned directly, Giddens said.  ‘Outstanding Conflicts’  “This agreement supports my goal to expeditiously resolve
outstanding conflicts with parties as we work to recover and
distribute as much customer property as possible,” Giddens said
in the statement.  In prior progress reports, Freeh and Giddens have
disputed whether certain assets belong to customers or
creditors. Customers were estimated to be out $1.6 billion as of
Giddens’s last report. Distributions by Giddens are predicted to
return about 80 percent of what U.S. customers are owed.  MF Global Holdings, run by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
Co-Chairman Jon Corzine until his Nov. 4 resignation, filed the
eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy after a $6.3 billion trade on its
own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most indebted nations
led to margin calls. Its bankruptcy filing listed assets of $41
billion and debt of $39.7 billion.  Giddens said in his June 4 report that Corzine may face
claims for breach of fiduciary duty and negligence for his role
in the company’s downfall.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  