-- Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac REO Costs Top $8.5 Billion, Auditor Says
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-06-14T20:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-reo-costs-top-8-5-billion-auditor-says.html
Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac have
spent $8.5 billion on foreclosed homes since 2007, the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency ’s auditor said in a report urging the
regulator to ensure taxpayer money isn’t being wasted.  The FHFA, which has overseen the government-sponsored
enterprises since they were seized during the credit crisis in
2008, must ensure Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac can cope with the
surge of so-called real-estate owned properties on their books
as a result of defaults on loans they guarantee, the agency’s
Office of  Inspector General  said in the report released today.  “The enterprises have experienced extraordinary increases
in their REO inventories and the costs associated with them
since the onset of the U.S. housing and financial crises
starting in 2007 and 2008,” the FHFA watchdog said in the
report. “The enterprises are likely to face elevated REO
inventories and costs for years to come.”  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  owned about 180,000 foreclosed
properties at the end of last year, triple the amount they had
in 2007, according to the report. That’s a  third  of the entire
U.S. inventory of so-called real-estate owned properties,
according to RealtyTrac Inc., the  Irvine , California-based
provider of foreclosure data.  The two companies sold 353,851 repossessed homes last year,
up from 57,748 in 2007, according to the  report .  ‘Starling Picture’  “This report paints a startling picture of the challenges
faced by Fannie and Freddie in managing their REO inventory,”
FHFA Inspector General Steve Linick said today in an interview.
“FHFA-OIG will continue to concentrate our resources on this
issue as it plays a critical role in the housing crisis.”  To mitigate the costs of foreclosures, Washington-based
Fannie Mae this month began a pilot program auctioning off some
of its properties in bulk to investors who promise to convert
them into rentals.  Fannie Mae and FHFA may not have the capacity to determine
whether those sales make financial sense, the report said. The
Office of Inspector General will monitor FHFA’s oversight of the
program, the report said.  More than half of U.S. mortgages are owned or guaranteed by
Fannie Mae and McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac, which have
operated under federal conservatorship since they were seized in
2008 amid losses that pushed them to the brink of insolvency.
Together, they have drawn almost $190 billion in taxpayer aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  