-- Fed Growth Forecasts Key to Easing as Job Market Stalls
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-06-14T16:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/fed-growth-forecasts-key-to-further-easing-as-job-market-stalls.html
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
lawmakers last week the “central question” confronting the
 Federal Reserve  at its next meeting is whether growth is fast
enough to make “material progress” reducing unemployment.  The answer may well be no.  Bernanke and his fellow policy makers gather June 19-20 to
revise their economic projections after a report yesterday
showing retail sales fell for a second month in May prompted
economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley to cut
their growth forecasts. Fed officials, including Vice Chairman
 Janet Yellen , have said there’s scope for further easing at some
point to reduce a jobless rate persisting above 8 percent.  “They’re not closing that employment gap as fast as they’d
like, so I suspect it adds up to more action to get things
moving again,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at New
York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co. and a former researcher for the
Federal Reserve Board in Washington. “Bernanke has a clear
economic mandate, and we’re still far from achieving it.”  Economists at Goldman Sachs yesterday reduced their
tracking estimate for U.S. second-quarter growth to 1.6 percent
from 1.8 percent. Morgan Stanley cut its projection 0.2
percentage point, to 1.8 percent, while Credit Suisse Group AG
marked down growth for the period to 2.2 percent from 2.5
percent.  Investors Fled  Since the  Federal Open Market Committee  met on April 25,
the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note has fallen 36
basis points, or 0.36 percentage point, to 1.63 percent as
investors fled risks in  Europe  and saw greater odds of new Fed
accommodation. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index during the same
period has slumped 4.8 percent to 1,324.65 at 12:25 p.m. in New
York.  The FOMC will gather two days after a June 17 national
election in Greece that risks the country’s exit from the euro,
an outcome that would deepen a crisis the Fed has identified as
a chief threat to the U.S. expansion.  Yellen said on June 6 that any new Fed accommodation may
entail purchasing bonds or extending a program to lengthen the
average maturity of the Fed’s portfolio of debt known as
Operation Twist. A declining job market and deteriorating
financial-market conditions show the  U.S. economy  “remains
vulnerable to setbacks.”  “I am convinced that scope remains for the FOMC to provide
further policy accommodation,” Yellen said. “It may well be
appropriate to insure against adverse shocks that could push the
economy into territory where a self-reinforcing downward spiral
of economic weakness would be difficult to arrest.”  Evans Comments  Chicago Fed President Charles Evans said on June 11 he
would favor “pretty much any accommodative policy,” including
buying bonds and extending Operation Twist, comments that helped
push stocks higher.  In April, Fed policy makers raised the outlook for growth
this year to a range of 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent, according to
their central tendency forecasts, which exclude the highest and
lowest estimates. In January, they predicted growth of 2.2
percent to 2.7 percent.  A reduction in forecasts for growth and employment at next
week’s meeting would help Bernanke justify more accommodation,
either at the end of this or subsequent FOMC meetings,
economists said.  “What he needs to see is growth become established at a 3
percent or faster rate to bring the  unemployment rate  down at a
decent clip,” said  John Ryding , co-founder of RDQ Economics LLC
in  New York  and a former Fed researcher. “The chairman is
sympathetic to the perspective that the Fed should do more to
promote growth.”  Growth Forecasts  Wall Street analysts said the economy will expand at a 2.2
percent rate in 2012, according to the median response of 70
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from June 1 to June 5.
That’s down from 2.3 percent in April and May surveys.  The central bank has already purchased $2.3 trillion of
bonds in two rounds of so-called quantitative easing, while
keeping the  benchmark interest rate  at a record low just above
zero since December 2008.  Still, the unemployment rate climbed to 8.2 percent in May
from 8.1 percent in April, a Labor Department report showed on
June 1. The economy added 69,000 jobs in May, the fewest in a
year and down from 275,000 in January. The Fed in April
projected an unemployment rate of 7.8 percent to 8 percent this
year and 7.3 percent to 7.7 percent in 2013.  Jobless Claims  In another sign of a struggling job market, Labor
Department data today showed that first-time claims for
 unemployment benefits  unexpectedly climbed by 6,000 last week to
386,000. A separate Labor Department report showed that the
consumer-price index declined 0.3 percent in May, the most in
three years, giving Fed policy makers more room to stimulate
growth.  The FOMC’s focus is “clearly the outlook and the risks to
the outlook,” said  Julia Coronado , a former Fed economist who
is now chief economist for North America at BNP Paribas SA in
New York. Risks are “skewed to the downside, so we think the
Fed’s probably going to be inclined to take out some insurance
with some additional balance-sheet action.”  3M Co. Chief Financial Officer David Meline said yesterday
the weak economy may mean lower volume growth for the  St. Paul ,
Minnesota-based maker of products including fuel-system tuneup
kits and Post-it Notes.  “The economy itself is running at what many people
consider to be a subpar type growth level,” Meline said at a
conference hosted by Deutsche Bank AG. The flagging economy
makes boosting sales “a more difficult challenge.”  Bernanke’s Challenge  Presidents at Fed district banks have clashed this month
over whether the economy needs more stimulus, highlighting the
challenge Bernanke would face next week building a consensus
behind any shift in policy.  Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher has repeatedly opposed
further easing, arguing on June 5 the Fed would be “pushing on
a string” and risk fueling perceptions that it’s encouraging
 government spending .  San Francisco  Fed President  John Williams , who votes on
policy this year, said on June 6 the “disappointing” payrolls
report for May didn’t change his expectation for jobs growth.
Still, the central bank should stand ready to act if the
recovery falters, he said.  Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart , another voting member for 2012,
and  James Bullard  of  St. Louis  have signaled a preference to
wait before making any policy changes. Bullard and Fisher don’t
hold a policy vote in this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  Washington  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  