-- Felda Said to Raise $3.3 Billion in Malaysian Share Sale
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n ,   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2012-06-14T03:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/felda-said-to-raise-3-3-billion-in-malaysian-share-sale.html
Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd.
raised about 10.4 billion ringgit ($3.3 billion) in this year’s
second-biggest initial public offering after  Facebook Inc. (FB) , said
three people with knowledge of the matter.  Felda Global, the world’s third-largest operator of palm
oil plantations, sold shares to institutional investors at 4.55
ringgit each, said the people, asking not to be identified as
the information is confidential. The Kuala Lumpur-based company
had marketed the shares at 4 ringgit to 4.65 ringgit. Demand for
stock from fund managers exceeded supply by more than 29 times
at that price, two people said.  Malaysian IPOs are defying the  market turmoil  brought on by
 Europe ’s debt crisis, which caused companies to scrap at least
$4.2 billion of first-time sales in the past month. Hospital
operator IHH Healthcare Bhd. and power company  Malakoff Bhd.  are
pursuing IPOs that may help  Kuala Lumpur ’s bourse widen its lead
in Asian deals this year.  “Felda is in a sweet spot because it is a large offering
in a Malaysian context with a very cash-rich base of
investors,” Abdul Jalil Abdul Rasheed, who helps manage $3
billion as chief executive officer of Aberdeen Islamic Asset
Management Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur., said yesterday. “We see other
IPO markets being weak, but  Malaysia  has pulled through.”  Graff Diamonds Corp. and Formula One are among companies
whose plans to go public in  Asia  were undone in the past month
by  stock-market volatility . Powerica Ltd., an Indian company
backed by Standard Chartered Plc’s private equity unit, shelved
plans for an IPO, people familiar with the deal said yesterday.  Same as Sime  The IPO values Felda at 14.2 times estimated full-year
earnings, one of the people said. That’s similar to local rival
 Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME) , the world’s largest palm oil company by
acreage. Singapore’s Golden Agri-Resources Ltd. trades at 9.3
times estimated earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A statement will be made on the pricing in a few days,
Felda Global spokeswoman Izan Hussain said by phone yesterday.  Felda Global is selling $1.1 billion of shares to 12 so-
called cornerstone investors, including the country’s biggest
pension funds, according to a term sheet for the deal. Those
buyers have pledge to hold the shares for a minimum 180 days in
return for guaranteed allocations, the document showed.  The plantations group manages estates for the  Federal Land
Development Authority , a Malaysian government agency. It has
about 355,864 hectares (878,984 acres) of plantations in
Malaysia in addition to land in  Indonesia . The company also has
palm oil refining businesses in  China , Indonesia,  Turkey  and
 South Africa , according to its share sale prospectus.  Facebook Falls  The IPO is the Southeast Asian nation’s biggest since
 Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd. (PCHEM)  raised a record 12.8 billion
ringgit in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking company,
completed a $16 billion IPO last month. Its shares have fallen
28 percent from the offer price.  IHH Healthcare, Asia’s biggest hospital operator controlled
by Khazanah Nasional Bhd., secured investors including AIA Group
Ltd. this week for a $2 billion IPO in Kuala Lumpur, people
familiar with the matter said June 12.  Malakoff, the country’s largest independent power producer,
is inviting proposals from banks to raise about $1 billion, two
people with knowledge of the matter said yesterday. Billionaire
T. Ananda Krishnan is considering a $1.5 billion offering for
Malaysian pay-TV broadcaster Astro All Asia Networks Plc later
this year, a company official said in March.  Malayan Banking Bhd., CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. and Morgan
Stanley are managing Felda Global’s IPO as joint global
coordinators, according to the prospectus. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Deutsche Bank AG are also involved.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser in  Hong Kong  at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  