-- Former Citadel, Highbridge Manager Plans North Asia Hedge Fund
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-06-14T01:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/former-citadel-highbridge-manager-plans-north-asia-hedge-fund.html
Toby Bartlett, a former manager at
Citadel LLC and Highbridge Capital Management LLC, plans to
start his own North Asia-focused stock hedge fund as soon as
next month, according to a document given to potential investors.  The market-neutral equity long-short fund from Bartlett’s
Hong Kong-based Arena Capital will be focused on domestic-demand
industries in  Japan  and  South Korea , according to the document
obtained by Bloomberg News. Bartlett declined to comment on
plans for the fund in an e-mailed response to questions.  Investors are seeking out hedge funds whose returns are
less tied to the direction of stock markets which have gyrated
amid concerns about the  European debt crisis  and a global
economic slowdown. The HFRI Fund-Weighted Index declined 5
percent in 2011, the second worst year for the industry since
Chicago-based data provider Hedge Fund Research Inc. started to
track the data in 1990.  HFRI’s Equity Market-Neutral Index slipped 0.2 percent in
May, the worst month for hedge funds since September. It
outperformed HFRI Equity Hedge (Total) Index, which dropped 4
percent for the month.  Bartlett’s fund will trade stocks, whose prices are moving
because of events such as earnings reports, share buybacks or
mergers and acquisitions, according to the document. It targets
industries including retail, food and beverage,
telecommunications, Internet, health care and services.  Bartlett was an Asian equity  fund manager  for Highbridge
between 2009 and 2011, according to the document. He helped
manage Japan stock investments for Citadel between 2007 and 2009.
He had also been a fund manager and a lead analyst focused on
various industries for Fidelity Investments Japan.  The document, given to potential investors before a Morgan
Stanley conference in  Shanghai  last month, didn’t provide
information on his performance records.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  