-- Funds Lured by Greek Home Loan Debt Paying 22%: Mortgages
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-06-15T13:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/funds-lured-by-greek-home-loan-debt-paying-22-mortgages.html
Distressed debt funds are buying
Greek mortgage bonds after yields soared to a record, wagering
the securities will rebound if Greece stays in the euro and with
some priced so low they can still be profitable with an exit.  Bonds initially assigned top credit grades pay 22
percentage points more than benchmark rates, up from a premium
of 9.25 percentage points last June when riots erupted in Athens
over proposed austerity measures, according to data compiled by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The spread is more than triple Spanish
home-loan bonds and about 15 times Dutch mortgage debt.  “The prices reflect concerns about a possible exit from
the euro and the legal implications this may have,” said
Apostolos Saflekos, a trader for Madrid-based investment firm
Auriga Global Investors.  Hedge funds  and investors in distressed
assets are buying as mutual funds and banks have to sell because
of credit downgrades, said Saflekos, a native of the Greek city
of Thessaloniki.  Greeks return to the polls this weekend after a May 6
election failed to produce a viable governing majority. Voters
in the midst of the country’s worst recession since World War II
face a choice between continuing with austerity that European
partners are demanding in exchange for 240 billion euros ($303
billion) of aid from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund , or voting for a party that’s pledged to reject
the terms of a bailout, which may lead to an exit from the
common currency.  Against Austerity  The largest pro-European party is leading the anti-
austerity force by 1 percentage point, according to an ANT1 TV
poll on June 1. Under Greek law, there is a ban on publication
of opinion polls two weeks before an election.  “We think that there is a very large chance that the Greek
elections will produce a government that is committed to
rejecting Greece’s obligations to its international creditors,
said  Michael Kurtz , Hong Kong-based head of global equity
strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc. “If that happens, it will
probably be forced out of the euro bloc,” said Kurtz. He says
there’s a 50 percent chance the country will exit from the 17-
member shared currency.  Returning to the drachma, would lead to a 65 percent drop
in the value of the new currency in nominal terms, and
“inevitably” defaulting on large portions of the country’s
foreign debt, according to National Bank of  Greece  estimates.  Currency Speculation  Spreads on Greek home loan bonds have widened from 16
percentage points in May, JPMorgan data show, as speculation of
an exit increased. Standard & Poor’s this week lowered its
ratings on the debt, citing potential departure from the
monetary union.  Leaving the shared currency and subsequent depreciation of
the drachma would see per-capita income drop by at least 55
percent in euro terms, according to a May report by National
Bank.  That would be problematic for Greeks who began taking out
home loans in earnest after the country joined the common
currency and for bond investors, according to a May 10 report by
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  analysts Conor O’Toole and Rachit Prasad in
 London .  Thanos and Annetta Kappas, both schoolteachers, say they’re
typical of Greeks who thought they had a guaranteed income. They
bought a 270,000 euro apartment in an Athens suburb in 2009 with
a 210,000 euro loan from the  National Bank of Greece . At the
time their combined monthly income of 2,700 euros meant they
could comfortably meet their monthly installments of 900 euros.  Mother’s Support  Their pay has been cut by 32 percent to 1,840 euros a month
by the state. The couple have sold their car and are relying on
his 79-year-old mother for handouts.  The loan “was the product of an era where we believed that
civil servants could never lose their jobs and that life would
always be a straight path forward,” said Thanos, 50. “Today we
are trapped.”  They plan on paying only what they can each month on their
mortgage, after trying to renegotiate terms with the bank.
Kappas said he hasn’t decided how he’ll vote in the June 17
election. He opposes the bailout conditions imposed on Greece.  Alexis Tsipras, leader of Greece’s Syriza party, has
pledged to cancel the bailout and implementation laws and
replace them with a national recovery plan. Antonis Samaras,
head of the New Democracy party, has promised to extend
 unemployment benefits  while honoring the country’s commitments
to the European Union and the International Monetary Fund.  Mounting Debts  The Kappas couple are far from alone. Non-performing
 mortgage loans  in Greece reached 15 percent of the total
outstanding in the fourth quarter, up from 14 percent in the
previous quarter, according to the Financial Stability
department of the Bank of Greece. First-quarter data is due to
be published in coming days, a spokesman for the regulator said.  “The country’s future is not bright and I do not know one
single man who can now see light at the end of the tunnel, even
with a possible left-wing government,” Kappas said.  The mortgage market had annual growth of 82 percent in the
early 2000s as first-time buyers took advantage of increased
financing and interest-rate reductions. Home loans expanded to
80.5 billion by the end of 2010 with about 3.5 billion euros
packaged inside mortgage bonds outstanding.  Home prices  in
 Athens , meanwhile, soared 176 percent from 1997 through the end
of 2008, according to data from the country’s central bank.  Price Declines  Home prices in the city, which have fallen about 20 percent
from the peak in the second quarter of 2008, would plunge if
Greece left the euro, according to Ioannis Kaligiannakis, a
senior appraiser at Colliers International in Athens.  “Prices will fall significantly and the situation will be
so liquid that it will be difficult to even give a range of
reasonable values,” he said during an interview in the Greek
capital on June 6. Properties would flood the market in “fire-
sale mode” as companies and individuals struggle to obtain
equity as bank funding dries up.  “Drachma devaluation, combined with high inflation,
political instability, oversupply and the drop in  house prices 
will force borrowers to stop paying their loans since their
mortgages will be higher than the value of their homes,” said
Kaligiannakis.  Investors with a view that a Greek euro-exit would
materialize are “well-advised to avoid the Greek RMBS sector
altogether,” the Deutsche Bank analysts wrote, referring to
residential mortgage-backed securities. They estimate this could
cause losses of 20 percent to 50 percent on certain senior
bonds.  ‘Market Overreacted’  That’s not deterring some U.S. private-equity funds that
are seeking returns they can’t find at home, according to
Michael Bolton, managing director at Clayton Euro Risk, a
provider of risk analysis for mortgages. There is “going to be
value because the market had overreacted,” he said.  A pool of more than 27,400 mortgages called Grif 1
originated by state lender Consignments Deposits and Loans Fund
for civil servants, is trading at about 35 cents on the euro
from 52 cents in April, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. About 2 percent of borrowers are more than 90 days
delinquent. The trust can withhold up to 60 percent of the
monthly salaries and pensions of borrowers, according to the
prospectus.  At those prices, investors in the 650 million euro bond
could still recover their investment if the currency was
devalued and defaults increase.  If Greece doesn’t exit the euro, senior Greek mortgage
bonds would “prove resilient, even under our most severe
scenario,” Deutsche Bank’s O’Toole and Prasad wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in  Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 