-- Genome-Wide Search May Provide Early-Warning System
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-06-14T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/genome-wide-search-may-provide-early-warning-system.html
Screening the genomes of healthy
people may give important clues about their cancer risk,
according to a study that suggests advanced DNA technology might
be employed early in a patient’s health assessment.  Among 572 people who underwent a broad analysis, 12 were
found to have genes that put them or their children at elevated
risk of dangerous tumors, according to the report from
researchers at the  U.S. National Human Genome Research Institute 
in Bethesda,  Maryland . Eight of the participants had no family
history of cancer that doctors normally look to for signals of
heightened susceptibility to malignancies, the study said.  The research, released today by the  American Journal of
Human Genetics , highlights the role that sequencing machines
made by  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  and  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  may play in
alerting healthy individuals to their risk of disease. The
machines can decipher swaths of human DNA in hours, giving
massive amounts of information about inherited traits.  “The current medical approach for finding susceptibility
to disease requires that you or your family members have the
condition or have died of it,” said  Leslie Biesecker , chief of
the genetics disease research branch at the Human Genome
Research Institute, in a telephone interview. “This suggests
that it doesn’t have to be that way, that we can find
susceptibility before all that suffering.”  Biesecker’s study, called  ClinSeq , sequences all the genes
in participants’ DNA to find clues to health and disease. About
1 percent of the human genome, the reproductive code found in
each cell, is composed of genes, which are the blueprints for
making proteins.  Gene Mutations  The researchers screened 37 genes in participants’ DNA for
changes that have been linked to cancers. The screen yielded 334
variants of “potential clinical importance,” most of which
were associated with unknown cancer risk.  Eight participants were found to have gene mutations that
significantly elevated their risk. Seven had changes in the
BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes that sometimes appear in families affected
with high rates of breast and ovarian cancer, the study said.  Another participant had a mutation in a gene called SDHC,
which has been linked to head and neck tumors that sometimes
cause severe nerve damage. This person, along with three of
those with BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations, had no family history of
the cancers related to these genes.  “This demonstrates that there’s fairly high frequency of
useful information that one can gain from the whole exome or
whole genome,” said  Robert Nussbaum , chief of the division of
medical genetics at the  University of California ,  San Francisco .  Genome Debate  Genetics researchers have debated whether it’s worthwhile
to look across the span of the genome on the chance that a
dangerous mutation may be present in a person with no family
history of disease, Nussbaum said.  “The paper shows that we can detect mutations that
everyone would agree that a patient and doctor should be alerted
to,” he said in a telephone interview.  Scientists using DNA sequencers to investigate the human
body are also struggling with how to handle the explosion of
genetic information, and when to share it with research
participants. Thousands of people who volunteer for research
studies involving DNA testing agree not to receive the results.  Because the implications of genetic information can be
difficult to explain, many of the panels that oversee human
research, called  institutional review boards , set guidelines for
studies that discourage unexpected results, often called
secondary findings, from being communicated to subjects.  Test Reports  Geneticists are asking whether there should be a minimum
set of gene mutations examined and reported back to doctors when
seen in anyone whose DNA has been sequenced, said  Robert Green ,
a Harvard Medical School geneticist. These would be genes that
are well-understood and have a strong health impact.  “The question is whether you should report these secondary
findings, and this paper supports it,” he said in a telephone
interview. “They found real cancer-related variants in people
who didn’t think they were at risk for cancer.”  Results from the institute’s study were confirmed and
returned to the participants by clinical geneticists, doctors
who are trained to interpret genetic information and share it
with patients and other caregivers. All received appropriate
referrals, prevention information and counseling.  Risk Findings  Four subjects with high-risk  colon cancer  genes were
carriers of recessive mutations that won’t affect them, but may
affect their children, researchers said. Those findings will be
returned to the participants later as part of the continuing
project.  The researchers also will study how patients react to the
information they’ve received over time, Biesecker said. These
and many other issues must be resolved before widespread genetic
 risk assessment  can be used in larger populations, he said.  “While this opens the door to wider possibilities, we’ll
need to scale it up,” Biesecker said. “You probably need to
think of first going from 500 people, like we did, to 5,000
people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Kaufman  at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 