-- Germany’s Haven Status Fades as Crisis Bill Mounts: Euro Credit
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-06-14T07:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/germany-s-haven-status-fades-as-crisis-bill-mounts-euro-credit.html
The haven status that drove German
yields to record lows is fading as the fourth bailout of a euro
member stokes investor concern that the currency bloc’s biggest
economy will be left picking up a mounting tab.  “If the euro region continues, then there must come a time
when there is a fiscal union and burden-sharing, and that would
make the market think more deeply about the creditworthiness of
 Germany ,” said Ralf Ahrens, who helps manage about $20 billion
as head of fixed income at Frankfurt Trust.  The  discount  Germany enjoys relative to the U.S. for 10-
year borrowing has narrowed to the least in more than three
months after  Spain  asked for a 100 billion-euro ($125 billion)
lifeline for its banks on June 9. Traders of credit-default
swaps also are buying protection against the risk of losses on
German bonds, with the costs of insuring the nation’s debt
surging to the most since January compared with similar
contracts on  U.S. debt .  Greece  holds an election in three days that may lead to it
becoming the first nation to exit the 17-nation currency union.
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has resisted calls to ease
Europe’s debt crisis by allowing joint bond sales, telling
German lawmakers yesterday that wider burden sharing and ceding
budgetary control “go hand in hand.”  Painful Outcome  “There is a greater awareness now that the outcome of this
crisis could well be quite painful for the German economy,”
said  Ciaran O’Hagan , a strategist at Societe Generale SA in
Paris. “The contingent liability on Germany is rising. The
losses we have seen have to be paid for by somebody and there is
a sentiment that taxpayers in the rest of Europe are not going
escape unscathed.”  Ten-year German yields  have risen 17 basis points this week
to 1.50 percent as of 8:38 a.m. London time, up from a June 1
record low of 1.127. The yield gap to Treasuries narrowed to 11
basis points yesterday, the least since Feb. 28. The  gap  between
10-year bunds and U.K. government bonds has narrowed to 26 basis
points, also the least since February and compared with an
average 49 over the past five years.  “We don’t want to have too much German interest-rate
risk,” said  Andrew Balls , head of European  portfolio management 
at Pacific Investment Management Co. in London, which oversees
the world’s biggest bond fund. “There is a big flight to
quality premium embedded in German bonds. In the event that the
 euro zone  gets better, these premiums will be unwound and German
yields will have to rise. If the situation gets much worse, the
money may leave the region all together. We favor cleaner dirty
shirts, like gilts and Treasuries.”  Balance Sheet  German 10-year yields have averaged 3.17 percent during the
past five years, more than half the current level. The two-year
rate is 0.12 percent, compared with 0.29 percent in Finland and
0.37 percent in the Netherlands, the euro-region countries with
the second- and third-lowest borrowing costs  “The German balance sheet remains relatively strong, so
it’s not certain that these fears about Germany paying will
translate into meaningful moves in the bund price,” said Nick Eisinger, a sovereign analyst in London at  Fidelity Investments ,
a U.S. mutual fund company with $1.6 trillion of assets. “In
the short run, yields could still fall.”  Recessions and rising borrowing costs for  Europe ’s most
indebted nations are opening divisions among government leaders
as investors question their ability to hold the euro together.
Germany is the biggest contributor to the euro-region bailouts
for Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland, with commitments to the
European Financial Stability Facility worth about 211 billion
euros, or 27 percent of the total.  Austerity First  Merkel’s government favors an austerity-led response to the
debt crisis, limiting the liabilities of German taxpayers.
“Simply borrowing” isn’t the answer to solving the crisis,
Merkel said in a June 12 speech in Berlin.  The difference, or spread, between the costs of insuring
against default in German and U.S. sovereign debt jumped to 60
basis points on June 12, from this year’s low of 35 on March 19.
The contracts on Germany reached 110 basis points this week, the
highest since Jan. 9, based on closing prices, showing
increasing demand for protection against increasing German
obligations.  Stumping Up  “The market is realizing that Germany isn’t a one-way bet
at recent yield levels,” said Roger Francis, an analyst at
Mizuho International Plc in  London . “If a crisis is avoided, it
will probably only be because Germany agrees to stump up in one
form or another, either in direct cash aid, shared liabilities
or domestic fiscal expansion. If we do have a Greek exit, then
Germany will be faced with recapitalizing the ECB, and at risk
from financial chaos and an economic slump in the euro zone.”  Europe’s turmoil is weighing on growth. The euro-region
economy will contract 0.4 percent this year, according to
economists’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with
growth of 2.2 percent in the U.S. and 0.2 percent in the U.K.  German bonds handed investors a loss of 2.1 percent this
month, trimming their year-to-date gain to 2.5 percent,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. U.S. Treasuries have
gained 1.9 percent since the start of the year and gilts have
returned 1.4 percent, the indexes show.  “Investors are beginning to factor in the potential damage
to Germany if this constant chip, chip goes on,” said  Bill Blain , co-head of the special situations group at Newedge Group
Ltd. in London. “If there is fiscal union, Germany pays. If
there is banking union, Germany pays. It isn’t a pure safe haven
anymore. Being the last man standing won’t be a good thing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net . 