-- Germany Targets Radical Islamist Groups in Nationwide Raids
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-06-14T11:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/germany-targets-radical-islamist-groups-in-nationwide-raids.html
German authorities carried out
 nationwide raid s today against extremist Islamist groups,
banning one organization and starting probes of two others.  The Salafist group Millatu Ibrahim was outlawed and DawaFFM
and DWR are being investigated by authorities in seven German
states in an operation that began at 6 a.m. local time today,
the  Interior Ministry  said in a statement. The groups are
accused of threatening  Germany ’s security with their potential
for violence and radical adherence to Islamic Shariah law.  “Such an understanding of Islam has no place in Germany,”
German Interior Minister  Hans-Peter Friedrich  said in a
statement. Millatu Ibrahim especially is accused of calling
adherents to an “active struggle” through violence against the
state and recognizes Shariah above German law, Friedrich said.  Salafist violence was highlighted last month when Islamist
radicals attacked members of an anti-immigrant group, pro-NRW,
as well as police during an election campaign in the western
state of North Rhine-Westphalia. German authorities have
identified radical Islam as an increasing threat over the last
decade, much of it targeting the country as the third-largest
troop contributor to the NATO mission in  Afghanistan .  German authorities in 2007 thwarted a planned bombing
attack that they said could have been the worst in Germany’s
post-World War II history. A German court two years ago
convicted four men for the crime.  Officials say Salafis pose an increasing threat with a
potential for violence, using the Internet and distributing
religious literature to spread their word. A leader of Germany’s
Salafist movement, an Austrian citizen identified as Mohamed M.,
left the country in April after being threatened with
deportation, the Hesse state  Interior Ministry  said in a
statement on its website April 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  