-- German Lawmakers Can’t Agree on Cuts to Solar Subsidies
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-06-14T07:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/german-lawmakers-can-t-agree-on-cuts-to-solar-subsidies.html
Germany ’s federal government and its
16 states can’t find common ground on proposed cuts to solar-
power subsidies in the world’s biggest market.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government and the states failed
to reach a compromise during an arbitration panel meeting, the
Bundesrat, the parliament’s upper house, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. The panel will resume talks on the
subsidies on June 27.  State leaders, who are represented in the upper house, are
opposed to Merkel’s planned subsidy cuts because of concerns the
legislation will hurt domestic manufacturers including
 Solarworld AG (SWV)  that are already suffering from Chinese
competition.  “While this may spur hopes of tamer cuts, the Bundesrat
has no legal authority to overrule,” Aaron Chew, analyst at the
Maxim Group, said in an e-mailed note. “While timing could be
tweaked, the overarching spirit of the cuts” and the planned
elimination of aid for plants larger than 10 megawatts “is
unlikely to change,” Chew said.  Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier  will meet with state
leaders on June 18 to discuss the solar subsidies, two coalition
lawmakers with direct knowledge of the negotiations said on
condition of anonymity because the talks are private. The two
sides are so divided that the proposed cuts might be dropped
altogether, one of the lawmakers said.  Merkel’s government has pushed to reduce the pace of annual
solar installations by about half after new projects peaked at
7.5 gigawatts last year, making Germany the world’s top solar
market by total capacity installed. A plan to lower subsidies by
as much as 29 percent from April 1 was blocked by state
governors in the upper house last month.  German solar companies want the state to push through less
stringent cuts after at least six of them filed for creditor
protection since December amid tumbling prices.  “Politicians are deciding about the future of
photovoltaics in Germany,”  Carsten Koernig , the managing
director of the BSW-Solar lobby, said in an e-mailed statement
on June 12. Solar companies will suffer if lawmakers “don’t
make improvements quickly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  