-- Germany’s Bayern Munich Link Puts Dutch in Peril at Euro 2012
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-14T02:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/germany-s-bayern-munich-link-puts-dutch-in-peril-at-euro-2012.html
Germany sent the Netherlands to the
brink of an early exit from soccer’s European Championship with
a 2-1 victory founded on familiarity.  A minute after  Bastian Schweinsteiger  and  Mario Gomez 
combined for the second time to put Germany 2-0 up in Kharkiv,
Ukraine, last night, their Bayern Munich teammate  Arjen Robben ,
playing for the Netherlands, failed to read  Wesley Sneijder ’s
intentions at a short corner.  The Dutch attack was snuffed out, leaving Robben holding
his hands on his hips in frustration as a German team featuring
seven Bayern players in its lineup mounted a counterattack.  “It’s an advantage for the whole team when players know
each other,” Gomez told reporters after taking his tally to a
tournament-leading three goals alongside Russia’s Alan Dzagoev.  The victory leaves the Netherlands, whose starting lineup
featured players who finished last season with 11 different
clubs, facing elimination from Euro 2012 at the group stage
following back-to-back losses. The Dutch, who won their only
continental title in 1988, have reached at least the
quarterfinals for six straight editions.  Germany  leads Group B with six points, ahead of  Portugal 
and  Denmark  on three points each. The Netherlands, runner-up at
the 2010 World Cup, must beat Portugal by a two-goal margin on
June 17 to have any chance of qualifying for the quarterfinals.
Germany will advance as the group winner by avoiding defeat to
Denmark in the final game of a pool whose four teams are all
ranked in the world’s top 10 by governing body FIFA.  Quaterfinals Gate  “We’ve opened the gate to the quarterfinals,” Germany
coach Joachim Loew said at a news conference. “In this so-
called Group of Death we already have six points and that’s
against two very strong teams. That’s very good.”  About 15,000 Dutch fans clad in orange traveled to the
game, outnumbering the Germans by about three to one. Their team
made the better start and wasted chances to open the scoring.  Netherlands coach Bert Van Marwijk resisted calls in the
Dutch media to bring striker Klass Jan Huntelaar into his attack
after  Robin Van Persie  failed to score from seven attempts
inside the penalty area in the June 9 loss to Denmark.  Van Persie  twice missed when sent clear on goal in the
first 10 minutes. The Arsenal striker shot straight at
goalkeeper  Manuel Neuer  and then dragged an effort wide after
being played in by Robben.  Roommates Combine  Gomez and Schweinsteiger, who shared a room in Kharkiv
after the team flew in from its tournament base in Gdansk,
Poland, combined for the first time in the 24th minute.  Schweinsteiger spotted Gomez’s run and hit a defense-
splitting pass that Gomez took on the turn before slotting past
Dutch goalkeeper  Maarten Stekelenburg .  “We have a very good relationship on the pitch,” Gomez
said. “He plays balls just how I want to have them.”  The goal silenced the Dutch fans who had been the most
vocal. Stekelenburg made a reflex save from Holger Badstuber in
the 36th minute, though failed to prevent Gomez blasting his
second goal into the top left corner two minutes later as
Schweinsteiger again played provider.  Van Marwijk  made attacking changes at the start of the
second half as Huntelaar and Rafael Van der Vaart replaced
Ibrahim Affelay and captain Mark Van Bommel.  Although the substitutions roused the Dutch fans into
singing along with a brass band, their team nearly went 3-0 down
as Stekelenburg made a save from Mats Hummels.  With 17 minutes remaining, the Dutch struck back. Van
Persie, who’d been moved to the left to accommodate Huntelaar,
took Robben’s pass and took three paces inside before hitting a
25-yard (23-meter) shot into the bottom corner.  Robben was withdrawn in the 83rd minute just after club
teammate Philipp Lahm dispossessed him on the right wing.  Van Marwijk, whose team lost the 2010  World Cup  final to a
Spain lineup featuring six Barcelona players, said familiarity
with Robben’s game had worked to Germany’s advantage.  “It’s easier to defend a player you know well,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at the Metalist Stadium via the London newsroom 
at   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  