-- Gold Records Longest Rally Since October on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-06-14T19:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/gold-futures-head-for-longest-rally-since-october.html
Gold futures rose, capping the
longest rally since October, on demand for a haven as a widening
U.S. current-account gap and a surprise increase in jobless
claims signaled that the economy is struggling to improve.  The current-account deficit widened in the first quarter to
the biggest in three years, and claims for jobless-insurance
benefits unexpectedly rose by 6,000. Gold climbed to a one-week
high, partly on speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will take
more steps to buoy the economy.  “The expectations of the Fed doing something grew after
the current-account data and the jobless data point toward some
slowdown,”  Adam Klopfenstein , a market strategist at Archer
Financial Services Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. “People are looking to position themselves in gold
as the uncertainties around are growing.”  Gold futures for August delivery advanced 20 cents to
settle at $1,619.60 an ounce at 1:59 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York . The price rose for the fifth straight session, the longest
rally since late October. Earlier, the metal reached $1,629, the
highest for a most-active contract since June 7.  The commodity rebounded after dropping as much as 0.6
percent.  Fed policy makers start a two-day meeting on June 19 to
review monetary policy, convening after weekend elections in
 Greece  that may determine whether the nation remains in the
group of countries that use the euro.  Alexis Tsipras, whose Syriza party in Greece is vying for
first place in pre-election polls, said he expects the European
Union will do all it can to keep the nation in the euro. He has
promised to repeal the austerity measures required to receive
emergency loans.  “People are also expecting some kind of coordinated effort
in  Europe ,” Klopfenstein of Archer Financial said.  Silver futures for July delivery fell 1.8 percent to
$28.407 an ounce.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
July delivery rose 1.4 percent to $1,487.60 an ounce. The price
climbed for the fourth straight day, the longest rally in a
month.  Palladium futures for September delivery gained 1.9 percent
to $634.90 an ounce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in Boston at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  