-- Gold Traders Bullish as Hedge Funds Increase Wagers
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-06-15T13:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/gold-traders-bullish-as-hedge-funds-increase-wagers.html
Gold traders are bullish for a
fourth consecutive week after  hedge funds  added to bets that
prices will rally, exchange-traded products backed by the metal
expanded and Europe’s debt crisis roiled markets.  Twenty-four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said they expect
gold to gain next week and six were bearish. A further three
were neutral. Speculators boosted net-long positions by 27
percent in the week ended June 5, the latest Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show.  ETP holdings  rose 21.07 metric
tons valued at $1.03 billion since the start of June, halting a
three-month retreat, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Greek voters return to the polls June 17 after last month’s
elections failed to produce a government, increasing concern the
17-nation euro would fracture. Almost $5.7 trillion was wiped
off the value of global equities since the end of March on signs
of slowing growth, spurring speculation that policymakers will
do more to shore up economies. Gold rose about 70 percent as the
 Federal Reserve  bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of
quantitative easing, or QE, ending in June 2011.  “Whatever the outcome in Europe, it will likely be
supportive for gold,” said Neil Gregson, who manages about $6.9
billion of natural-resources equities at JPMorgan Asset
Management in London. “We’ve still got the possibility of QE3
in the U.S., which would be good for gold.”  Consecutive Years  Bullion futures climbed 3.8 percent to $1,623.50 an ounce
on the Comex in New York this year, beating the 9.7 percent drop
in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities and 1.5
percent advance in the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities.
Treasuries returned 1.8 percent, a Bank of America Corp.  index (MXWD) 
shows. Gold has advanced for 11 consecutive years, increasing
about sixfold since the end of 2000.  The 10 most widely held options are for prices higher than
now, with the biggest conferring the right to buy gold at $2,200
by next month and the second-largest at the same cost by
November, according to Comex data. Hedge funds and other
speculators added 21,101 futures and options to their net-long
position in the week through June 5, making them the most
bullish since the start of May, according to CFTC data.  Investors own 2,391.9 tons in bullion-backed ETPS, within
0.8 percent of the record reached March 13, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The three-week gain in holdings is the longest
expansion in about three months.  Combined Reserves  Central banks are also buying more metal after adding 456.4
tons last year, the most in almost five decades, according to
the London-based World Gold Council, which predicts another 400
tons will be added in 2012. They increased their combined
reserves for 14 consecutive months through March, the longest
streak since 1964, International Monetary Fund data show.
 Kazakhstan ’s central bank said June 13 it plans to buy 24.5 tons
this year to increase gold’s share of its reserves.  While traders are more bullish, gold remains 16 percent
below the record $1,923.70 reached Sept. 6. Prices fell as much
as 19 percent by May 16 from the closing high of $1,891.90 in
August, within 1 percentage point of the common definition of a
 bear market . Even after boosting bets on a rally, speculators’
net-long position is still 61 percent below the all-time high of
253,653 contracts set in August.  Demand for physical gold in  India , last year’s biggest
consumer, remains “lackluster,” UBS AG said in a report June
1. There are still no clear indications of an acceleration in
the “fear trade,” with transactions in  Europe  lagging behind
volumes seen last year, London-based UBS analyst  Edel Tully 
wrote in a report yesterday. The  U.S. Mint  sold 18,500 ounces of
American Eagle gold coins so far this month, compared with
61,500 ounces for all of June 2011, data on its website show.  Federal Reserve  Bullion tumbled this year in part because the Federal
Reserve held off from starting a third round of quantitative
easing. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 7 the Fed will need
to assess conditions before deciding if more measures are needed
to stoke the economy. Gold futures declined 2.8 percent on the
day, the most in two months.  “The Fed is more likely to disappoint than to offer up
another free lunch to the speculative crowd,” said Jon Nadler,
an analyst at Kitco Inc., a precious metals refiner and research
company in  Montreal . Fed policy makers meet June 19-20 to review
their economic projections.  Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut their forecast
for second-quarter U.S. growth to 1.6 percent from 1.8 percent
after a Commerce Department report June 13 showed retail sales
fell for a second month. Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans 
said June 11 he would favor “pretty much any accommodative
policy,” including buying bonds.  Capital Markets  Spain ’s credit rating was lowered three steps to Baa3 on
June 13 by Moody’s Investors Service, citing the nation’s debt
burden, weakening economy and limited access to  capital markets .
The nation’s bond yields rose to a euro-era record the following
day. Group of 20 nations will meet in Los Cabos,  Mexico , June
18-19 to discuss the  European debt crisis .  In other commodities, 13 of 23 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg expect copper to climb next week and four
were neutral. The metal for delivery in three months, the London
Metal Exchange’s benchmark contract, fell 1.5 percent to $7,493
a metric ton this year.  Six of 15 people surveyed said raw sugar will decline next
week and four were neutral. The commodity dropped 15 percent to
19.91 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  this year.
Seventeen of 29 people surveyed anticipate higher corn prices
next week, while 21 of 28 said soybeans will advance. Corn
dropped 20 percent to $5.19755 a bushel this year as soybeans
climbed 8.8 percent to $13.14 a bushel.  Asset Management  “Investors’ concerns have shifted from the risk of a
severe global economic decline to the central bank response,
which is positive,” said Adrian Day, who manages about $160
million of assets as president of Adrian Day Asset Management in
Annapolis,  Maryland . “Whatever the likely developments in
Europe, the result is likely to be easier money, and that’s
positive for gold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  