-- Greek Political Parties Seeking Entry to Parliament on June 17
-- B y   E l e n i   C h r e p a   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-06-14T13:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/greek-political-parties-seeking-entry-to-parliament-on-june-17.html
Following is a list of Greek
political parties running for seats in parliament in the June 17
elections.  --  New Democracy  (ND)  Led by Antonis Samaras, 61, New Democracy voted against the
first European Union and International Monetary Fund bailout for
Greece before supporting an interim government and voting for
the second bailout this year. Samaras has pledged to lower taxes
and renegotiate parts of the accords with the proposal of 18.5
billion euros ($23 billion) of alternative cuts. Founded in
1974, New Democracy won elections in 1974, 1977, 1990, 2004 and
2007 and received 18.9 percent of the vote in Greece’s last
elections on May 6.  Democratic Alliance , led by former Foreign
Minister Dora Bakoyiannis, joined New Democracy after the May 6
elections, where it got 2.6 percent of the vote. Polls gave New
Democracy from 22.7 percent to 26.1 percent of the vote, meaning
it would have to form a coalition to get a majority in
parliament.  http://nd.gr/static/home.html   -- Syriza (Coalition of the Radical Left)  Led by Alexis Tsipras, 37, Syriza is an anti-bailout party which
has pledged to cancel the country’s bailout agreement. It calls
for increasing taxes for higher earners, delaying and cutting
repayment of the country’s debt and trimming defense spending.
Tsipras has proposed joining forces with the Communist Party of
Greece and the Democratic Left -- a move the Communist Party has
rejected -- to form a coalition after the elections. The party
garnered 16.8 percent of the vote in Greece’s last elections.
Syriza received between 20.1 and 31.5 percent of voter
preferences in polls.  http://www.syriza.gr/   -- Pasok (PanHellenic Socialist Movement)  Led by  Evangelos Venizelos , 55, Pasok is a pro-bailout party and
was the ruling party when the first bailout was granted in May
2010. Founded in 1974 by  Andreas Papandreou , Pasok governed in
Greece from 1981 to 1989, from 1993 to 2004, and won the
country’s previous national elections in 2009 with 43.9 percent
of the vote. Venizelos, who became party leader after resigning
as finance minister in March, has said he will cooperate with
other parties to form a coalition government. Pasok received
13.2 percent of the vote in the May 6 elections. Polls have
given Pasok between 9.9 percent and 15.5 percent of the vote.  http://www.pasok.gr/portal/   -- Communist Party of  Greece  (KKE)  Led by Aleka Papariga, 66, KKE is an anti-bailout party. It is
the oldest political party in Greece, founded in 1918. KKE is
opposed to the austerity measures and bailout terms. It
maintains Greece should leave the euro area, the EU and other
international institutions. Papariga, whose party got 8.5
percent of the vote in the May 6 elections, has said she won’t
cooperate with any other party to form a coalition government.
KKE got 8.5 percent of the vote in May 6 elections. Polls have
given KKE between 4 percent and 6.3 percent of the vote.  http://inter.kke.gr/about/history/briefhistory/   -- Democratic Left  Led by Fotis Kouvelis, 63, Democratic Left is a pro-Europe party
that opposes the bailout measures in their current form. The
party, founded in 2010, calls for large cuts in spending on
defense, pharmaceuticals and public administration as well as
higher taxes on businesses and banks to replace savings from
wage or pension cuts. It says Greece needs to be given more time
to balance its budget. Kouvelis has said his backing for an
anti-bailout coalition depends on getting a guarantee to stay in
the euro. Democratic Left got 6.1 percent of the vote in May 6
elections. Polls have given Democratic Left between 4.4 percent
and 7.5 percent of the vote.  http://www.dimokratikiaristera.gr/   -- Independent Greeks  Led by  Panos Kammenos , 47, Independent Greeks is an anti-bailout
party created in February. The Independent Greeks have said
Greece should renounce its debt and abolish the bailout
agreement, staying within the euro at the same time. Kammenos, a
former New Democracy lawmaker, has said he is willing to
cooperate with other parties to form a coalition government if
his party fails to gain a majority in parliament. Independent
Greeks got 10.6 percent of the vote in the May 6 elections.
Polls have given the Independent Greeks between 5.3 percent and
7.4 percent of the vote.  http://anexartitoiellines.gr/diak.php   --  Golden Dawn  (Laikos Syndesmos Chrysi Avgi)  Founded and led by Nikolaos Michaloliakos, born in 1957, this
anti-bailout and nationalist party created in 1993 calls for the
expulsion of all illegal immigrants and for borders to be
protected by  land mines . The party received 7 percent of the
votes in the May 6 elections, entering parliament for the first
time. Golden Dawn calls for the evaluation and partial reneging
of all public debts since 1974, the nationalization of banks,
the halting of all state funding to political parties and the
immediate start of drilling exploration activities for oil and
natural gas. Polls have given Golden Dawn between 3.8 percent
and 5.5 percent of the vote.  http:// www.xryshaygh.com  -- Drassi, Recreate Greece Coalition  After the country’s May 6 national elections, Drassi, led by
Stefanos Manos, 73, and Recreate Greece, led by Thanos Tzimeros,
born in 1961, formed a coalition. Both parties are pro-European,
support structural reforms and call for less government and the
acceleration of privatizations and real estate development to
pay down the country’s debt. Recreate Greece and Drassi failed
to get enough support to enter the parliament in the country’s
latest elections in May. Recreate Greece got 2.1 percent of the
vote and Drassi got 1.8 percent of the vote, less than the 3
percent threshold. Polls give the two parties’ coalition between
1.5 and 3 percent of the vote.  http://www.dimiourgiaxana.gr/   http://www.drassi.gr/   To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  