-- Greek Election Will Have 9.9 Million Eligible Voters on June 17
-- B y   E l e n i   C h r e p a   a n d   A n t o n i s   G a l a n o p o u l o s
-- 2012-06-14T10:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/greek-election-will-have-9-9-million-eligible-voters-on-june-17.html
Voting in  Greece ’s June 17 general
election begins at 7 a.m. and finishes at 7 p.m. Athens time. A
total of 9.9 million citizens are eligible to vote at one of the
20,560 polling stations around the country.  -- Exit polls will be published at the close of voting.
SingularLogic SA, the software distributor in charge of vote
counting and data processing, will give an initial estimate of
the final result at about 9:30 p.m. A more accurate estimate
will be available at about 11:00 p.m. The vote count will be
available on the  Interior Ministry ’s website,  www.ypes.gr .  -- A party needs about 36 percent of votes to secure a
majority in the 300-seat parliament, or 151 seats. Recent polls
show neither of the two main parties, New Democracy and Syriza,
is likely to gain such a high percentage. Twenty-one parties are
standing for election; polls have indicated that as many as
eight will get the 3 percent needed to enter parliament.  -- The first party gets 50 bonus seats. The remaining 250
are distributed proportionally among all parties that achieve
the 3 percent threshold. Votes cast for parties that don’t make
it into parliament also get distributed proportionally, which
affects the percentage of votes the first party needs to reach
151 seats. Two examples: if the smaller parties that don’t
secure entry into parliament get 3 percent of the vote, the
first party needs about 40 percent to reach 151 seats; if they
get 5 percent, the first party will need about 36.5 percent.  -- In the event an absolute majority is not reached, the
president gives the leader of the party with the highest
percentage a three-day mandate to form a government. If that
leader fails to do so, the three-day mandate is handed to the
leader of the second-biggest party, and so on.  -- If no party can form a government, the president calls a
meeting of party leaders and asks them to form a government. If
this option also fails, all parliamentary parties are asked to
form an interim government that will prepare fresh elections.  -- If this fails to produce an interim government, the
mandate to form a government that will declare new elections is
given to the Council of State or the  Supreme Court  to form a
government based on the widest possible consensus to hold
elections and dissolve parliament.  -- The new parliament is due to convene on June 28. The
following day, a three-day plenary debate starts on the program
of the new government. The debate will be completed at midnight
of the third day with a confidence vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net ;
Antonis Galanopoulos in Athens at 
 agalanopoulo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  