-- Greek Budget on Course for 2012 Target, Eurobank Research Says
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-06-14T15:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/greek-budget-on-course-for-2012-target-eurobank-research-says.html
Greece  is on course to meet its
budget-deficit target for 2012, economists at  EFG Eurobank
Ergasias SA (EUROB)  said.  “The most recent official data provide some encouragement,
despite the ongoing weakness in tax receipts and the continuing
accumulation of government arrears,” Eurobank Research
economists Platon Monokroussos and Theodoros Stamatiou said in a
note distributed today. “Contrary to what many investors appear
to believe, the applied austerity program has yielded
considerable fiscal results over the last two years.”  Greece trimmed its deficit to 9.1 percent of gross domestic
product last year from 15.6 percent in 2009, according to the
European Commission, by cutting spending and increasing taxes in
exchange for bailout loans from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund . Budget data released on June 12
showed the central government’s deficit in the first five months
was 2 billion euros ($2.5 billion) below the target for the
period. The full-year deficit target is 13.7 billion euros.  Earlier this year, Greece sliced about 100 billion euros
off its debt load when it agreed to the world’s biggest
sovereign debt restructuring with private creditors. This will
cause debt servicing costs to “decline significantly in the
years to come,” making it easier for Greece to meet fiscal
targets and improving the state’s solvency outlook, the
economists said.  The government’s total payment arrears to third parties at
the end of April stood at 6.3 billion euros, according to the
research note. While failing to reduce these arrears
sufficiently is a failing of the government’s economic reform
program and is keeping needed liquidity from the  Greek economy ,
it does not necessarily constitute a risk to meeting its 2012
fiscal targets, Monokroussos and Stamatiou said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  