-- Greeks Return to Ballot Box as Crisis Nears Decisive Moment
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-06-15T13:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/greeks-return-to-ballot-box-as-crisis-approaches-decisive-moment.html
Greeks head to the ballot box in two
days for a contest that may determine the fate of the world’s
first democracy and the future of the newest  reserve currency ,
while roiling markets from Wellington to  Wall Street .  Almost 10 million Greeks will vote for the second time in
six weeks after a May 6 ballot failed to yield a government. The
constitution permits a third election too. The final polls,
published on June 1, showed no party set to win a majority. Exit
polls will be released when voting ends at 7 p.m. in Athens,
with a first official result estimate due around 9:30 p.m.  The June 17 vote will turn on whether Greeks, in a fifth
year of recession, accept open-ended austerity to stay in the
euro or reject the conditions of a bailout and risk the turmoil
of becoming the first to exit the 17-member currency. World
leaders have said they’d prefer a pro-euro result, underscoring
concern over global repercussions.  “I want  Greece  to remain in the euro zone, but Greeks must
understand that this requires a relationship of trust,” French
President  Francois Hollande  said June 13 in an interview with
Athens-based Mega TV. “If the impression is given that the
Greeks want to distance themselves from their agreed commitments
and to abandon every prospect of recovery, there will be
countries in the euro zone that will prefer to terminate
Greece’s presence.”  Bailout Deal  Syriza, the party that promises to renege on Greece’s end
of the bailout deal, and New Democracy, which backs the rescue,
ran even in final opinion polls. The socialist Pasok party,
which won the 2009 election and led the country into the
bailout, was third at about 13 percent.  Now in its third year, the European debt crisis has rounded
back to Greece, which sparked the turmoil in October 2009 when
Pasok Prime Minister  George Papandreou  revealed a deficit four
times more than European rules allowed. Greece has since gotten
rescue packages totaling 240 billion euros ($303 billion). The
ballot will be a first test for a 100 billion-euro firewall for
 Spain , which on June 9 became the fourth euro country to seek a
rescue.  “Core euro members are going to great lengths to make sure
that Greece would not be replicated elsewhere,”  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London, said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “If need be, the firewalls
would be strengthened. But new money will only go into the
firewall, not to Greece.”  Next Flashpoint  Central banks intensified warnings that Europe’s failure to
tame its debt crisis threatens to roil the world’s financial
markets and economy as Greece’s election looms as the next
flashpoint for investors.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield vaulted to 7 percent yesterday
in a fresh sign of the stress that has plagued the region for
two years.  “What has raised the stakes since Spain requested external
financial assistance last weekend is the glaring disconnect
between  market sentiment , which has become ever more binary, and
Greek politics which has become ever more blurred,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director at Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “It’s as clear as
the light of day that Sunday’s election result is not going to
be a market-friendly nor a conclusive one.”  Stocks Rise  Stocks rose and commodities climbed for a second day on
speculation central banks will take steps to boost economies as
Europe’s debt crisis saps growth. Spanish, Italian, U.K. and
U.S. bonds advanced. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  added 0.5
percent at 7:45 a.m. in  New York , heading for a second weekly
gain.  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index futures increased 0.3 percent.
The yield on the Spanish 10-year bond dropped five basis points
to 6.86 percent.  The euro, created in 1999, has lost 3.6 percent since May
6, when Syriza’s second-place finish increased the prospect of a
Greek exit from the currency union. New Democracy won 18.9
percent in the May 6 election and Syriza got 16.8 percent.  A possible Greek departure from the euro has cast a pall
around the world. President  Barack Obama  has blamed the euro
crisis for a slowdown in U.S. employment growth.  “It’s in everybody’s interest for Greece to remain in the
 euro zone , while respecting its commitments to reform,” Obama
said June 8. “European leaders understand the need to provide
support if the Greek people choose to remain in the euro zone.
But the Greek people also need to recognize that their hardships
will likely be worse if they chose to exit.”  G-20 Summit  Taiwan’s Premier Sean Chen plans a Cabinet meeting,
tentatively scheduled for June 19, to discuss strategy after the
Greek election. European finance ministers plan to issue a
statement at a summit of world leaders in  Mexico  scheduled for
June 18-19.  “Greece was the first default, now it would be the first
exit from the euro,”  Riccardo Barbieri , chief European
economist at Mizuho International Plc, said in an e-mailed
answer to questions. “The ECB and other European institutions
must be ready to intervene if necessary to support Spain and
Italy but this inevitably entails a further accumulation of
sovereign risk. Until the markets see that there is a line of
defense, uncertainty will remain very high.”  Syriza leader Alexis Tsipras has pledged to keep Greece in
the euro even while scrapping state-asset sales, civil service
job cuts and wage and pension cuts. Bailout proponents, such as
 New Democracy  leader Antonis Samaras, say Tsipras’s policies
risk forcing Greece out of the euro and causing hyperinflation,
bank runs and widespread poverty.  Euro Exit  Standard & Poor’s said in a June 4 report that the chance
of Greece leaving the euro area in coming months was one-in-
three.  “Both Samaras and Tsipras want to renegotiate Greece’s
bail-out agreement,” said Spiro. “The difference between the
two is that Tsipras is more willing to gamble with Greece’s
membership of the euro.”  New Democracy led Syriza by 22.7 percent to 22 percent,
according to an ANT1 TV poll on June 1, the last date surveys
were made public in accordance with Greek election law. As the
stakes rise for Greeks, along with the temperature, campaigning
has become more urgent. Posters for Syriza, promising a path to
hope, vie for space in  Athens  with New Democracy posters.  Samaras, who will hold his final campaign rally in central
Syntagma Square in Athens tonight, said on June 13 that the
choices facing Greeks at the ballot-box are stark: “government
or instability; the euro or drachma.”  ‘European Future’  “The dilemma is whether Greece has a European future,”
Dimitris Papadoukis, 53, an employee at the state-owned Hellenic
Post SA, said. “That is first and foremost. We may have
delayed, or made mistakes, but that doesn’t mean we should go
back decades.”  Papadoukis spoke outside New Democracy’s election pavilion
in Syntagma Square, the site of anti-government rallies exactly
a year ago that drew as many as 50,000 protesters. He says he
will vote for Samaras even though he knows he may lose his job
as part of the spending cuts demanded by the troika of creditors
from the European Union, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund .  The spending reductions demanded by the troika to bring the
country back to financial health have included cuts to pensions
and the minimum wage amid tax increases, pulling Greece into a
fifth year of contraction and spurring unemployment to a record
of more than 22 percent. Tsipras has tapped into that pool of
growing anger.  ‘Catastrophe’  “The bailout governments have driven the country to
catastrophe,” Tsipras said in a Bloomberg Television interview
on June 13. “What’s surprising is that these people who have
run the country aground are still demanding they govern, to
finish off the job.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , in comments to
Stern magazine published on the same day, said he had “really
great sympathy with the man on the street in Greece.”  “But I can’t spare him that,” he said. “The Greek
minimum wage is just dropping to the level of Spain. If the
country wants to become competitive again, it has to sink.”  Worried Greeks have stepped up the pace of withdrawing
their savings before the elections on concern the nation may
move closer to abandoning the euro, bankers familiar with the
situation said on June 13.  Bank Outflows  Deposit outflows jumped in the days following the May 6
election and were as much as 6 billion euros in May, Athens-
based  Kathimerini  newspaper reported June 9, without saying
where it got the information. Greek bank deposits by businesses
and households rose to 166 billion euros in April from 165.4
billion euros the previous month, according to a statement by
the Bank of Greece on its website on May 31.  The outflow is increasing the strain on a banking system
that has suffered since the beginning of the crisis. An exit
from the euro would cut lenders off from access to ECB funding.  Vassilis Fanis, 42, a hospital employee, said he voted for
Syriza on May 6 and now doesn’t know if he’ll cast his vote for
Tsipras again. He said he’ll vote for the “lesser of two
evils” without saying who that is.  Tsipras “doesn’t seem to want to form a government,”
Fanis said. “They know it’s difficult and they have no
solutions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  