-- Gupta Insider-Trading Deliberations to Enter Second Day
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-06-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/gupta-deliberations-end-first-day-without-verdict.html
The jury weighing  insider-trading 
charges against former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director Rajat Gupta finished its first day of deliberations yesterday in
Manhattan federal court without reaching a verdict.  Deliberations are scheduled to resume today.  Gupta, 63, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, is
accused of leaking secret tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder
Raj Rajaratnam about New York-based Goldman Sachs and
Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  Gupta left the Goldman
Sachs board in 2010 and the P&G board last year.  He’s charged with conspiracy and five counts of securities
fraud. The most serious count against him carries a maximum
prison sentence of 20 years. At Rajaratnam’s trial last year,
which ended with the hedge-fund manager being convicted of
insider trading, jurors deliberated for 12 days.  Alleged tips by Gupta included information on a $5 billion
investment by Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  in
Goldman Sachs on Sept. 23, 2008, and on Goldman Sachs  losses  in
the fourth quarter of 2008. Prosecutors also said Gupta told
Rajaratnam that P&G planned to sell its Folgers Coffee unit to
 J.M. Smucker Co. (SJM)   Jurors selected as their foreman a Westchester County, New
York, man who works at a not-for-profit organization. After
deliberating for several hours yesterday, they asked to review
the testimony of Michael Cardillo, a former Galleon trader who
has pleaded guilty to insider trading and cooperated with
prosecutors. Cardillo testified that Rajaratnam’s brother told
him that Rajaratnam had “a guy” on P&G’s board.  The jury also asked that the judge clarify the law on
conspiracy, particularly the requirement that there be “an
agreement to commit  securities fraud  between at least two”
people, according to U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who read
their note aloud in court.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  