-- Gupta Trial Deliberations Begin in Insider Trading Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-06-14T14:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/gupta-insider-trading-jury-begins-deliberations.html
The fate of  Rajat Gupta , the former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  director
charged with  insider trading , was placed in the hands of a jury
as deliberations began in Manhattan federal court.  “Your duty is to decide the fact issues in the case and
arrive, if you can, at a verdict,” U.S. District Judge Jed
Rakoff told the panel, made up of 8 women and 4 men. “You are
to perform your duty of finding the facts without bias or
prejudice as to any party. You are to perform your final duty in
an attitude of complete fairness and impartiality.”  Gupta, 63, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, is on
trial for allegedly leaking secret tips to Galleon Group LLC co-
founder Rajaratnam, 54, about New York-based Goldman Sachs and
Cincinnati-based Procter & Gamble. Gupta left the Goldman Sachs
board in 2010 and the P&G board last year.  Gupta is accused of conspiracy and five counts of
 securities fraud . The most serious charge against him carries a
maximum prison sentence of 20 years. At Rajaratnam’s trial last
year, which ended with the hedge fund manager being convicted of
insider trading, jurors deliberated for 12 days.  Alleged tips by Gupta included information on a $5 billion
investment by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  in
Goldman Sachs on Sept. 23, 2008, and on Goldman Sachs  losses  in
the fourth quarter of 2008. Prosecutors also said Gupta told
Rajaratnam that P&G planned to sell its Folgers Coffee unit to
 J.M. Smucker Co. (SJM)   Six Hours  Through almost six hours yesterday, prosecutors and a
defense lawyer walked jurors through their differing
interpretations of the evidence in a trial that’s now in its
fourth week.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Tarlowe told jurors that
there was “overwhelming evidence” Gupta passed secret
information to Rajaratnam, who was sentenced to 11 years in
prison.  “Gupta abused his position as a corporate insider by
providing secret information,” he said. Those leaks allowed
“Rajaratnam and his criminal associates at Galleon” to make
millions of dollars through illicit trades, he said.  ‘Urgent Call’  Tarlowe began his presentation by focusing on trades
related to Omaha, Nebraska-based  Berkshire. (BRK/B)  He said the Galleon
hedge fund firm bought more than 200,000 Goldman Sachs shares
beginning around 3:54 p.m. on Sept. 23, 2008, after Rajaratnam
received an “urgent” call from a man Tarlowe alleged was
Gupta.  There was a single call to Rajaratnam’s direct line in the
trading day’s final 10 minutes, Tarlowe said.  “And that call was from Gupta,” he said. “That evidence
is devastating.”  The prosecutor replayed for jurors a Sept. 24, 2008,
wiretapped phone conversation in which Rajaratnam tells an
associate that he was told at 3:58 p.m. that “something good
might happen to Goldman.”  In the defense closing argument, attorney  Gary Naftalis 
decried what he called the lack of “real, hard, direct
evidence” in the U.S. case.  He told jurors that there’s no claim that Gupta himself
traded illegally, no evidence of secret payoffs from Rajaratnam
to Gupta and no eyewitness to any illegal tip.  “Where’s the beef in this case?” he asked, saying the
U.S. tried to “bamboozle” jurors with “meaningless
witnesses.”  Naftalis belittled phone records relied on by prosecutors.  “There was no evidence of what was said in any
conversation,” he said. He pointed out that prosecutors had no
recordings of Gupta’s tips even after the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  tapped Rajaratnam’s mobile phone for eight months.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York federal court
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  