-- IBurst Builds Fast Internet for South Sudan in Three-Year Plan
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a   a n d   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-06-14T12:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/iburst-builds-fast-internet-for-south-sudan-in-three-year-plan.html
IBurst (Pty) Ltd. is expanding
Internet capacity beyond the capital of  South Sudan ,  Africa ’s
youngest country, in a three-year plan to provide services to
the nation’s government and biggest companies.  “By the end of June we will have a few base stations
running in the Abyei region” to enable services, Thami Mtshali,
chief executive officer of the South African provider of mobile
Internet services, said in an interview at the company’s
Johannesburg headquarters.  IBurst has four base stations in the South  Sudan  capital of
Juba using fourth-generation systems, which allow faster
downloads. The stations service Juba’s population of about
250,000 and coverage will extend to the whole nation in three
years, said Mtshali.  “From nothing to 4G, that is what we’re doing to the
place,” Mtshali said. “It’s an initial $20 million
investment,” and iBurst has already signed up some customers in
the regions in which it is expanding, where the biggest clients
are government institutions and the military.  South Sudan  is building infrastructure and institutions
after gaining independence from Sudan last July. South Sudan
seceded after a referendum on independence, the culmination of a
2005 peace agreement intended to end a two-decade civil war. The
south kept three-quarters of the formerly united country’s oil
output of about 490,000 barrels a day.  Good Margins  “We first identify the customer and then build the
infrastructure after doing the agreements,” Mtshali said.
Customer subscriptions immediately pay the company’s costs, he
said. “Margins are very good out there, because there’s
absolutely nothing in that country,” he said.  South Sudan has a population of 10.6 million and only 60
kilometers (37 miles) of paved roads, according to the  CIA World
Factbook . The government has a target for economic growth of 7.2
percent in 2012, up from 6 percent last year, according to the
Factbook.  In Abyei, iBurst will enable “all the people to
communicate and to have access to globally competitive
technology this year,” Mtshali said.  Abyei lies in a contested border region, with Sudan and
South Sudan both claiming sovereignty. The two countries’
militaries have clashed in the area, and the north sent in the
army in May last year. The UN established an “interim security
force” to maintain peace ahead of a planned referendum in which
the population will choose which country they want to be part
of.  Satellite Links  While iBurst is rolling out infrastructure in South Sudan,
the country is setting up a commission to regulate
telecommunications, Khamisa Wani-Ndah, deputy minister of
telecommunications and postal services, said in an interview in
 Cape Town  on June 7.  As South Sudan doesn’t have a fiber-optic network, iBurst
will rely in satellite connections for its rollout, said
Mtshali. Within three years iBurst will cover the entire nation
with 4G long-term evolution technology. “We have access to
funds and we are always in talks with our backers,” he said.  The company also plans to put up 1,500 base stations using
LTE technology in  South Africa  by the end of the year, and aims
to reach a total of 4,000, Mtshali said in an interview this
month. The first set of stations will cost $150 million, he
said. IBurst has 100,000 data users in South Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story: Sikonathi Mantshantsha
and Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at and +27-
   smantshantsh@bloomberg.net  and
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  