-- Microsoft Said to Hold Talks on Buying Yammer Social Site
-- B y   A s h l e e   V a n c e   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-06-15T23:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/microsoft-said-to-be-in-talks-to-acquire-yammer-social-network.html
(Corrects spelling of Yammer spokeswoman’s name in fifth
paragraph of story that ran June 14.)  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is in discussions to
acquire Yammer Inc., operator of a social network for businesses,
said two people familiar with the matter.  Microsoft may pay more than $1 billion, and a deal may be
reached as soon as tomorrow, said one person, who declined to be
identified because the negotiations are private.  Gaining closely-held Yammer would help Microsoft, the
world’s largest software maker, add social-networking tools to
the suite of products it offers corporate customers. Large
information-technology companies are snapping up nimbler
startups, sometimes before they reach an initial public offering,
spending $17.4 billion on enterprise software acquisitions in
2011, compared with $715.5 million in 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  A deal for Yammer would follow other recent enterprise
software purchases centered around social media.  Salesforce.com
Inc. (CRM)  gained social-marketing tools through its $745 million
purchase of Buddy Media Inc. earlier this month, and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
recently bought two companies that analyze data on social-media
sites -- Vitrue Inc. and Collective Intellect Inc.  Frank Shaw, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment on a potential deal. Dee Anna McPherson, a spokeswoman for closely held Yammer, also declined
to comment.  Venture Funding  San Francisco-based Yammer was founded in 2008 by David Sacks, the former chief operating officer at PayPal Inc. It has
raised more than $140 million in funding from venture firms,
including  Charles River Ventures Inc.  and  Emergence Capital
Partners.   Yammer is used by more than 200,000 companies, including
Ford Motor Co. and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  It provides features for internal
corporate use that are similar to those found on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
website. Yammer competes with  Jive Software Inc. (JIVE) , Chatter, run
by Salesforce.com., and Asana Inc., Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz’s company.  Jive, which had its initial public offering in December,
gained 12 percent to $18.67 at the close in New York. The stock
has gained 17 percent this year.  Microsoft’s shares increased 0.7 percent to $29.34. The
stock has climbed 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ashlee Vance in  San Francisco  at 
 avance3@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  