-- Woods Sits 3 Shots Off Lead Heading Into U.S. Open 2nd Round
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-06-15T14:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/tiger-woods-starts-u-s-open-golf-with-par-mickelson-has-bogey.html
Tiger Woods’s new golf swing has
reached the stage where he can hit a variety of shot shapes and
make adjustments to his game mid-round, his U.S. Open playing
partner Bubba Watson said.  Woods’s play during a 1-under-par 69 round yesterday was
hard to ignore, Masters Tournament champion Watson said, and put
him in position to make a run at a 15th major title.  “He shaped it the way he wanted to shape it,” Watson told
reporters at San Francisco’s Olympic Club. “I didn’t see any
bad swings. I didn’t see any bad shot, really.”  Woods is three shots behind leader  Michael Thompson 
entering today’s second round. Woods, Watson and  Phil Mickelson 
will tee off at 1:29 p.m. local time.  The second round began under a sunny sky, with a
temperature of 52 degrees (11 degrees Celsius). The forecast
calls for sun the rest of the weekend.  While Woods, 36, tries to end a four-year winless drought
in major championships, Mickelson and Watson will spend today
trying to make the cut for weekend play. Mickelson, a five-time
U.S. Open runner-up, is 6 over, two ahead of Watson.  Woods hit 10 of 14 fairways in a round containing three
birdies and two bogeys yesterday. He used his driver three
times, on holes 9, 10 and 16, favoring irons from other tees.  Difficult Challenge  Woods said he enjoys the challenge of the hard fairways and
fast greens at the Olympic Club, a course near the  Pacific Ocean 
on the southwestern tip of San Francisco.  “I’ve always preferred the conditions to be difficult,”
Woods said. “It brings our mind into play and I like that.”  Before winning the Memorial Tournament two weeks ago, his
second victory of the year, Woods hadn’t finished better than
40th in three tournaments, including a missed cut at Charlotte’s
Quail Hollow Club. It marked the worst stretch of his
professional career.  Although Watson struggled, he couldn’t help notice how
Woods’s game has improved.  “That was the old Tiger,” Watson said. “That was
beautiful to watch. That’s what we all come to see.”  Thompson, 27, had seven birdies and three bogeys in his
round of 4-under- par 66. He’s playing in his second  U.S. Open 
after a tie for 29th at  Torrey Pines  in 2008.  David Toms ,  Nick Watney ,  Justin Rose  and 2010 champion
Graeme McDowell are tied for second with Woods at 1-under.  Woods had a bogey on his sixth hole when his second shot
flew over the green and wound up next to a fence.  He scored birdie three holes later and missed a chance for
another on his 12th hole when a two-foot putt lipped around the
cup. He got his second birdie with a 12-foot putt two holes
later.  Fist Pump  On the next hole, the 498-yard, par-4 fifth, a fast-moving
40-foot putt through shadows dropped into the hole for a birdie.
Woods made a little pump of his right fist, shook his head and
then gave a long sigh.  “A fluke,” Woods said. “That putt was off the green.”  He bogeyed the next hole after landing his second shot in
the sand.  “The golf course was really quick, I was surprised at how
much it had changed overnight,” Woods said. “We had to make a
few adjustments.”  Mickelson lost his ball on his opening hole when his tee
shot went into the trees and couldn’t be found. He had one
birdie and seven bogeys in his round.  Woods, who tied  Jack Nicklaus  with his 73rd PGA Tour
victory at the Memorial, can move within three of Nicklaus’s
record 18 major titles this week. Woods has been stuck at 14
majors since defeating  Rocco Mediate  in a 19-hole playoff in the
2008 U.S. Open.  Andy Zhang of  China , at 14 the youngest golfer on record to
play in the U.S. Open, was 8-over after his first five holes. He
birdied his final hole for a 9-over 79, the same score as world
No. 1 Luke Donald.  Casey Martin, Woods’s former teammate at  Stanford
University  who uses a  golf cart  between shots because of a
debilitating leg condition, shot 4-over 74.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Buteau in  San Francisco  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  