-- In 1868, a Wild Fraud to Dwarf Today’s Political Sleaze
-- B y   K e n n e t h   D .   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-06-14T16:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/in-1868-a-wild-fraud-to-dwarf-today-s-political-sleaze.html
Do big corporations really control
U.S. politicians through money and contributions? Is the system
more corrupt today than ever before?  It often seems that way. U.S. corporations spent  about
$3.32 billion  in 2011 to lobby officials in  Washington ,
according to OpenSecrets.org. This, plus billions more in newly
liberated campaign contributions and other practices have
combined to create a system many describe as “legalized
bribery.”  Still, lobbying is protected by the First Amendment and, if
anything, decades of reforms designed to increase transparency
have made today’s abuses mild by comparison.  How bad was it?  Probably the low point for corporate-influence peddling in
the U.S. came in 1868, when the New York state legislature
decided a contest over control of the Erie Railroad, then one of
America’s premier corporations.  The battle pitted the venerable  Cornelius Vanderbilt , the
owner of the New York Central Railroad, against Daniel Drew of
Erie and his two young proteges,  Jay Gould  and James Fisk Jr.  Vanderbilt’s goal was simple: With Erie in his pocket, he
could control all rail links from  New York City  to the  Great
Lakes , an immensely profitable monopoly. But Drew, who had grown
rich manipulating Erie stock prices as company treasurer (before
insider-trading bans), had no intention to let go.  The so-called Erie War took place during one of the most
corrupt periods in American history. Historians call it the “Era
of Good Stealings,” the years just after the Civil War when
William “Boss” Tweed ruled New York City,  Ulysses S. Grant  sat
in the White House, and scandals -- from the Whiskey Ring to
Credit Mobilier to postal frauds to Reconstruction to Indian
agent frauds -- all bubbled just beneath the surface. The New
York Stock Exchange was an unregulated frontier of booms, busts
and manipulations.  The complex contest between Vanderbilt and Drew --
involving bribed judges, stock fraud, dueling injunctions and
corporate piracy -- reached its climax in March 1868. Decades
before the existence of rules governing tender offers, stock
registration, disclosures or other such niceties, all Vanderbilt
had to do was buy Erie stock as fast as he could until he owned
enough to control the company -- what was known as a “raid.”  But Drew cheated. Tipped off to Vanderbilt’s plan, he
secretly authorized and printed thousands of new Erie shares,
turning the market into a quicksand pit.  Furious, Vanderbilt responded by finding a friendly New
York judge to declare Drew, Gould, and the other Erie directors
in contempt, forcing them all to flee across the  Hudson River  to
 New Jersey  to avoid arrest.  Drew, in turn, responded by sending Gould to Albany to
persuade the state Legislature to approve a bill legitimizing
the large block of new stock issued to thwart Vanderbilt’s raid.
Tweed, as a state senator (among other titles), personally
represented Vanderbilt in the fight.  It’s difficult today to conceive the scale of the ensuing
contest between Gould and Tweed for the hearts and minds of the
state Legislature. Gould brought along a suitcase full of cash
and set up shop in Parlor 57 of Albany’s Delavan House hotel,
tending bar and doling out largess -- in thousand-dollar bills.
Tweed was equally generous. Nobody knows the true totals, but
the two men reportedly distributed close to $1 million apiece
(worth about $50 million or more today) to  Albany  lawmakers as
they debated the Erie legislation.  It wasn’t just a senator or two they were trying to buy,
but the entire statehouse.  The lawmakers, in turn, played both sides for suckers. For
years, a group of about 20 assemblymen calling themselves the
Black Horse Cavalry had specialized in blackmailing businesses
with what they called “strike bills” -- proposed laws designed
to cripple businesses that refused to pay bribes. For them, the
Erie War would be the richest payday ever. Instead of directly
taking sides, most simply bid the two against each other.  One state senator, A.C. Matoon, reportedly took Erie’s side
after receiving $15,000 from Gould, switched to Vanderbilt’s
after taking $20,000 from Tweed, then supported Erie on the
final vote.  “The wealth of Vanderbilt seemed pitted against the Erie
treasury,” wrote Charles Francis Adams Jr. in his classic
expose, “ Chapters of Erie .” At one point, when a Vanderbilt
agent arrived from  New York  with fresh cash, Gould reportedly
paid him $70,000 to disappear.  Vanderbilt steamed at the spectacle. “It never pays to kick
a skunk,” he said. He then ordered Tweed to cut off the bribes.  The legislators realized their fountain of easy money had
run dry. Senators and assemblymen who had demanded a thousand
dollars for their vote days earlier now offered their support
for a mere hundred. To Adams, the mood among lawmakers was
reminiscent “of the dark days of the war when tiding came of
some great defeat.”  The legislators passed the Erie bill -- which made the
secretly issued Erie stock legitimate and thus secured Drew’s
hold on the company -- by a vote of 101 to 6. They had rejected
it 83 to 32 when Vanderbilt money was being offered.  Vanderbilt and Drew ultimately settled their battle with a
backroom deal that made them both much richer at the expense of
Erie stockholders, in effect paying them both “golden
parachutes” long before that term became common. At the same
time, it left Gould and Fisk in charge of the company -- Gould’s
first big step in building one of the great American fortunes.  How does this compare with today’s big corporations
attempting to influence Congress on issues close to their
pocketbooks? There’s still plenty of money in politics, and
plenty of favoritism by politicians toward big donors and high-
powered lobbyists. But today the system is far more public and
regulated -- even with its flaws and gaps. And sunlight, as
Justice Louis D. Brandeis famously told us, is the best
disinfectant.  (Kenneth D. Ackerman is the author of four books, including
“Boss Tweed: The Corrupt Pol Who Conceived the Soul of Modern
New York.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes online.  To contact the writer of this post: Kenneth D. Ackerman at
 kackerman@ofwlaw.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  