-- Simpson-Bowles: It’s Back, and Better Than Ever
-- B y   D o n a l d   H a i d e r
-- 2012-06-14T22:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/in-praise-still-and-again-of-simpson-bowles.html
Whoever wins the U.S. presidency in
November will potentially have to deal with combined tax
increases and spending cuts that could extract 3 percent to 4
percent of gross domestic product from the economy -- a
potentially catastrophic fiscal blow to the recovery from the
deepest recession in 80 years.  The U.S. faces a reckoning at year’s end. The Bush-era tax
cuts are scheduled to expire, resulting in huge tax increases
for almost all taxpayers, not just the rich. Cuts in domestic
spending, particularly on defense, could automatically take
effect. The federal debt ceiling once again will bump up against
legal borrowing limits. And the elections may narrow each
party’s majority in Congress, making compromise more difficult
in 2013. There is little leeway to “kick the can down the road.”  This raises the stakes for the lame-duck session, the
period after the Nov. 6 elections and before newly elected
officials take office in January. This is when  compromises  on
new revenue and entitlement cuts have a sporting chance of
passage. The good news is that there are signals that
negotiations could center around the debt-reduction
recommendations of the bipartisan Simpson-Bowles panel two years
ago.  Obama’s Commission  On Feb. 18, 2010, President  Barack Obama  established the
National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, also
known for its co-chairmen, former Wyoming Senator  Alan Simpson 
and  Erskine Bowles , a White House chief of staff under President
 Bill Clinton . Two years ago, trillion-dollar budget deficits
were driving up government borrowing levels at an alarming rate
and outstanding  U.S. debt  was projected to exceed the nation’s
GDP.  Simpson-Bowles was charged with finding a way to lower
 deficits  to 3 percent from 9 percent of GDP. Twelve of the
commission’s 18 members were appointed equally among Democrats
and Republicans in Congress and six were named by the president,
including Simpson and Bowles. Its recommendations were to be
advisory, not binding, with a supermajority of at least 14
members required to issue a final report.  Little was expected to happen. The panel’s membership
reflected the widening partisan strife in the nation’s capital.
Yet, surprising many, the commission came back Dec. 1 with a
plan to reduce budget deficits to 2.2 percent of GDP and
outstanding debt levels by $4 trillion over the next decade.
Simpson-Bowles concluded that a mix of spending cuts and
tax increases would be needed to achieve the goals set by the
president. Economic growth, spending cuts or taxes couldn’t
achieve significant debt reduction by themselves. About 40 cents
of every dollar that the government spent came from borrowed
funds, a level that is unsustainable. Taking aim at the  federal
budget  “untouchables” -- entitlements (Medicare and Medicaid),
Social Security, defense and the  tax code  -- Simpson noted
wistfully that the commission had “harpooned every whale in the
ocean.” A bipartisan majority of 11 of the 18 commission members
endorsed the multiyear plan. Without a supermajority, prospects
diminished that Congress would quickly vote its recommendations
up or down, as is required when considering military-base
closings.  However, Simpson-Bowles wouldn’t go away. The media had
elevated its recommendations to benchmark status for serious
political discussion about the national debt. It lived on
because no other plan generated as much support across partisan
lines and with both the divided Congress and the sometimes
distanced White House. The recommendations, it was thought,
would provide cover for the president to appear to be seriously
engaged. A majority of Republicans on the  panel  had voted for it
and the top Democratic budget leader in the House had expressed
his support. A bipartisan coalition of deficit hawks known as
the Group of Six was pushing in the Senate.  Tea Party  The 2010 midterm elections stopped the momentum. The Tea
Party-led insurgency resulted in a 63-seat loss for Democrats
and Republican control of the House. New members weren’t
enthusiastic about a multiyear plan that called for $1 in
increased taxes for every $3 in  spending  cuts. Even more
unsettling was Obama’s failure to embrace Simpson-Bowles. That
provided Republicans with the opening for Republicans to pass
House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan ’s entitlement-cutting
budget plan in April 2011. That budget, in turn, allowed
Democrats to score points by portraying Republicans as
heartless, as Clinton had done in his 1996 re-election campaign.  As concerns over debt intensified, the Simpson-Bowles plan
came back to life. In July 2011, Obama and House Speaker  John Boehner  cobbled together a bipartisan effort to break the
congressional deadlock over raising the  debt ceiling . The law
requires Congress to approve governmental borrowing; this
process has evolved into an opportunity for high political drama
as debt limits approach. The Tea Party-led Republican majority
leveraged this impasse by tying a debt-ceiling increase to
sizeable spending cuts or a  balanced-budget amendment . Under the
threat of a U.S. default, the president and Boehner reportedly
agreed to entitlement cuts, deficit reductions and tax reforms -
- the Simpson-Bowles “whales” -- though that deal collapsed amid
partisan recriminations. Calamity was temporarily averted when
both sides agreed to raise the ceiling for 15 to 18 months in
exchange for passage of the Budget Control Act of 2011.  This compromise required $900 billion in future spending
reductions and the creation of a new supercommittee comprised of
House and Senate members that would recommend an additional $1.2
trillion in reductions from Medicare, Social Security and
taxes. When the supercommittee failed, a new budget law required
automatic across-the-board spending cuts of $1.2 trillion, a
process known as  sequestration , to begin taking effect Jan. 2,
2013, unless an agreement was reached. Half of this amount would
come from discretionary spending such as education; the other
half would be from defense and homeland security.  Automatic Cuts  This prospect of the automatic cuts in January makes
Simpson-Bowles all the more appealing. In April 2012, a
bipartisan group of House lawmakers sought to resurrect the
plan, though their proposal was overwhelmingly defeated.  House
Republicans  moved away from their “no-new-taxes” stance and
embraced pro-growth tax reforms (without specifics) and passed
Ryan’s 2011 multiyear  debt-reduction plan .  Senator  Kent Conrad , the Democratic chairman of the Senate
Budget Committee and a Simpson-Bowles member, introduced the
commission’s report as his panel’s budget blueprint for a Senate
vote. Senate leaders again deferred voting on a federal budget
until after the 2012 election. A frustrated Conrad said: “We are
facing a fiscal train wreck at the end of this year. It is time
to move off of fixed positions.”  He’s right, and Simpson-Bowles will return in November as
the only game in town.  (Don Haider, a professor at Northwestern University’s
Kellogg School of Management, and a former White House Fellow in
the Office of Management and Budget, is a contributor to
 Business Class . The opinions expressed are his own.)
Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Obama’s economic speech  and
 why Europe is not ready for a Greek exit ; William Pesek on
 China’s economic slowdown ; Virginia Postrel on  making your own
Michelangelo ;  Jonathan Weil  on  accounting tricks by Spain’s
banks ;  Steven Greenhut  on  why “top two” primaries are bad for
democracy .  To contact the writer of this article:
 d-haider@kellogg.northwestern.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  