-- India’s Inflation Exceeds Estimates as Rate Decision Looms
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-06-14T16:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/india-inflation-rate-exceeds-estimates-rate-cut-pressure-stays.html
Indian inflation quickened more than
estimated in May as food and fuel prices surged, an acceleration
that may fail to prevent an interest-rate cut next week to shore
up slowing growth.  The benchmark wholesale-price  index  rose 7.55 percent from
a year earlier, after climbing 7.23 percent in April, the
commerce ministry said in New Delhi today. The median of 37
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 7.5 percent. A separate
report showed a decline in Indian exports and imports last month.  Indian economic expansion  weakened  to a near-decade low
last quarter, hurt by faltering efforts to open up the economy,
a moderation in investment and the impact of  Europe ’s debt
crisis on overseas sales. The slowdown has added pressure on the
 Reserve Bank of India  to reduce borrowing costs at its June 18
policy meeting, even as the nation struggles with the fastest
inflation among the biggest  emerging markets .  “The growth slowdown and  core inflation  below 5 percent
are giving the central bank room to cut rates,” said Meghna Patel, a fixed-income analyst at Emkay Global Financial Services
Ltd. in Mumbai. “But it’s not a monetary policy battle alone,
the government has to do its bit on faster reforms to prop up
the economy.”  Non-food manufactured goods inflation, a representation of
core inflation, was 4.86 percent in May compared with 4.77
percent in April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Vegetable prices rose 49.4 percent from a year earlier, while
fuel and power costs climbed 11.5 percent, today’s report showed.  Rupee, Stocks  The rupee, which has slumped about 20 percent against the
dollar in the past year, declined 0.2 percent to 55.815 per
dollar at the local time close. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) 
dropped 1.2 percent. The yield on the 8.79 percent bond due
November 2021 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
to 8.33 percent from 8.29 percent yesterday.  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will lower the
benchmark repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to
7.75 percent, the second reduction this year, according to 17 of
23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Two expect a half-
point move to 7.5 percent, with the rest predicting no change.  While the rupee’s decline,  India ’s fiscal deficit and food
prices are among risks to inflation, the Reserve Bank “will
tilt toward supporting growth,” said Amol Agrawal, a Mumbai-
based economist at STCI Primary Dealer Ltd.  Exports, Imports Fall  Officials are being pressed into action to shore up a
global economy that is suffering its steepest slowdown since the
recession ended in 2009.  Australia  cut its benchmark rate on
June 5, with  China  unveiling a reduction two days later.  Indian exports fell 4.16 percent to $25.68 billion in May
from a year earlier, Director General for Foreign Trade Anup Pujari said at a briefing in New Delhi today, giving provisional
data. Imports shrank 7.36 percent to $41.9 billion, leaving a
trade deficit of $16.3 billion, he said.  Lower export demand is “showing up in the industrial
slowdown” in the South Asian nation, said  Anubhuti Sahay , a
Mumbai-based economist at Standard Chartered Plc. The
government’s target of 20 percent export growth in the 12 months
that began April 1 “looks optimistic given the global economic
situation,” Sahay said.  India’s economic slowdown and an oil-price drop suggest
more room for another rate cut even as inflation risks remain,
Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said June 1. The monetary authority
lowered  borrowing costs  to 8 percent from 8.5 percent on April
17. It has also cut the amount lenders must set aside as
reserves twice in 2012 to ease a cash squeeze in the economy.  Slower Growth  Gross domestic product rose 5.3 percent in the three months
through March from a year earlier, the slowest pace since 2003.  Growth in  Asia ’s third-largest economy has moderated in
part after Subbarao raised rates by a record 3.75 percentage
points from mid-March 2010 to October last year to try and
contain inflation, which exceeded 9 percent for most of 2011.  “People say that the  Reserve Bank ’s monetary tightening did
not reduce inflation, it only ended up stifling growth,”
Subbarao said in a speech in the southern city of Hyderabad
today. “Very strong critics, who don’t like me, have a sharper
version of this. They say, you couldn’t kill inflation but ended
up killing growth. I only want to say that you cannot control
inflation without sacrificing some growth.”  While the structural nature of India’s current-account
deficit is worrying, a repeat of the balance-of-payments crisis
the nation suffered in 1991 is unlikely, he also said.  India’s pace of price increases remains the fastest in the
BRIC group of largest emerging economies, which also includes
Brazil, Russia and China. The South Asian nation may become the
first BRIC country to lose its investment-grade  credit rating ,
 Standard & Poor’s  said June 11.  Some companies have felt the impact of price pressures and
cooling expansion. Car sales fell in May at Maruti Suzuki India
Ltd., and the Indian units of Ford Motor Co. and General Motors
Co., after an increase in gasoline prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 