-- Indonesia’s Poor to Drive Noodlemaker Share Jump: Southeast Asia
-- B y   A n d r e w   J a n e s   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-06-15T09:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/indonesia-s-poor-to-drive-noodlemaker-share-jump-southeast-asia.html
Shares of Indonesian consumer staple
companies are poised to narrow the gap with  PT Unilever
Indonesia’s (UNVR)  record gains as their valuations don’t yet reflect
the spending potential of Indonesia’s poor, according to
Standard Chartered Plc and PT Bahana Securities.  PT Indofood Sukses Makmur (INDF) , whose Indomie noodle brand is
ubiquitous in supermarkets,  convenience stores  and roadside
stalls throughout Indonesia, traded at 11.1 times estimated
profit on June 4, the cheapest level in three years. Shares of
Unilever, a unit of the world’s second-biggest consumer goods
company, were three times more expensive, and climbed to an all-
time high of 23,750 rupiah on June 12.  PT Charoen Pokphand
Indonesia (CPIN) , which produces poultry and animal feed, was at 13
times earnings on June 4, the lowest level since Jan. 4.  “Investors are looking for a safe haven and the low-income
class provides a cushion against market weakness,” Harry Su,
head of research at Bahana Securities in Jakarta, said in an
interview on June 8. “We all have buys on those stocks at the
moment, with substantial upside,” said Su, the most accurate
forecaster for Indofood’s instant-noodle unit PT Indofood CBP
Sukses Makmur, according to Bloomberg data.  Spending by lower-income households on products from mobile
phones and cigarettes to noodles and chicken will contribute to
a “major portion” of growth over the next decade in  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest economy, according to a May 3 report by Standard
Chartered. Even with estimated gross domestic product growth of
7 percent a year, poorer households will account for 51 percent
of spending by 2020, the report said.  ‘Unjustly Ignored’  That will boost shares of companies including Indofood,
which may jump 50 percent from yesterday’s closing price to
7,132 rupiah in the next 12 months, Nirgunan Tiruchelvam, a
Singapore-based analyst with Standard Chartered, forecast in the
report.  Charoen Pokphand  may rise 12 percent to 2,999 rupiah,
according to analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg, while
feedmaker  PT Japfa Comfeed (JPFA)  may climb 43 percent to 6,000 rupiah.  “Despite the rhetoric about middle classes contributing to
growth in  Indonesia , 82 percent of the population is living on
less than $4 a day and they account for 58 percent of household
consumption,” Tiruchelvam, rated the most accurate analyst by
Bloomberg for Charoen Pokphand Indonesia, wrote in the report.
“The market has unjustly ignored the potential consumption
growth of the poor over the next decade.”  Commodity Prices  Indofood Director Werianty Setiawan declined to comment on
the company’s share price and valuation when contacted by e-mail
on June 13, citing company policy. Hadijanto Kartika, Charoen
Pokphand’s corporate secretary, declined to comment by phone.  Indofood gained as much as 1.6 percent to 4,825 rupiah
before closing at 4,775 rupiah. Charoen Pokphand rose 4.7
percent to 2,800 rupiah, the highest close since April 3.
Unilever dropped 1.1 percent and the benchmark  Jakarta Composite
Index (JCI)  climbed 0.7 percent to 3,818.11.  Still, a recent drop in commodity prices, while cutting
input costs for food producers like Indofood, may curb the
spending power of rural customers, Bahana Securities’s Su said.
The S&P GSCI Agriculture Index of farm commodities has lost 11
percent this year to the lowest level since September 2010. The
agriculture, farming, forestry and fishery industries were the
second-biggest contributor to GDP in the first quarter,
according to government data.  “The only negative factor which is happening at the moment
is that farmers’ incomes should come down on the back of lower
commodity prices,” Su said.  Stimulus Measures  Even so, a 17 percent increase in the country’s average
minimum wage this year, slowing inflation and lawmakers’
rejection late March of a government plan to raise the price of
subsidized fuel will support lower-income consumption, Su said.  Indonesia will implement stimulus measures to boost
consumption as the global economy slows, Bambang Brodjonegoro,
head of fiscal policy at the Ministry of Finance, said on June
13. The government will tap last year’s 24 trillion rupiah ($2.5
billion)  budget surplus  to lift the tax-free annual income level
to 24 million rupiah, from 15.8 million, he said.  The  Consumer Price Index  rose 4.45 percent in May, slowing
for the first time in three months, while the central bank kept
its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 5.75 percent on
June 12 to help spur investment. GDP in Indonesia, the world’s
fourth most-populous country, grew 6.5 percent last year, the
fastest pace since before the 1998 Asian financial crisis.  Unilever Revenue  Shares of Unilever Indonesia have jumped 19 percent this
year and last traded at 36.9 times estimated earnings. The
Jakarta Composite lost 0.1 percent and trades at 13.2 times net
income. Indofood Sukses has climbed 3.8 percent and Charoen
Popkhand has advanced 30 percent.  Revenue at Unilever, which sells soaps, detergents,
cosmetics and food, accounted for 3 percent of Indonesian GDP in
2011, according to  Standard Chartered . The country’s annual GDP
is $706 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About
15 percent of the company’s products sell for less than 0.1
euros ($0.13) and 60 percent for less than 0.6 euros, Maurits Lalisang, the company’s president director, told reporters on
May 29.  “Smart companies know there are better margins to be made
among the low-income consumers because they don’t have a
choice,” Winston Sual, who helps manage about $1 billion at PT
Panin Asset Management, which runs Indonesia’s best-performing
fund over the past three years, said by phone from Jakarta on
June 8. “Many companies that sell things like shampoo sell them
in sachets to the low-income class and they are selling these at
a higher price than bottled shampoo. So the margin is good.”  Wheat Consumption  Indofood Sukses, which gets about 70 percent of its revenue
from instant noodles, may also benefit from a drop in wheat
prices that has made the product more affordable than rice, the
country’s traditional staple, Tiruchelvam wrote.  The price of wheat, one of Indofood’s main costs, dropped
9.8 percent in  Chicago  in the past year, compared with a 1.2
percent drop in rice futures. The price of medium-grade rice,
the most-consumed staple in Indonesia, was at 7,100 rupiah a
kilogram as of June 8, compared with 5,850 rupiah on June 28,
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indofood director Setiawan declined to comment on the
impact of lower wheat prices on the company’s earnings.  “We expect wheat consumption to rise due to its cost
advantage over rice,” Tiruchelvam wrote in a research note in
March. “One of the reasons for Indofood’s dominance in
Indonesia is that it has effectively introduced Indonesian
dishes into an instant-noodle format.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Janes in Jakarta at 
 ajanes@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  