-- ING Sees Growth in Slowdown as Defaults Decline: Corporate India
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-06-14T18:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/ing-sees-growth-in-slowdown-as-defaults-decline-corporate-india.html
ING Vysya Bank Ltd. (VYSB) , the only Indian
lender to be controlled by a foreign company, plans to expand
credit at a faster pace than local rivals even as the economy
slows betting that borrowing costs and defaults will decline.  India ’s central bank will probably cut the amount of money
banks are required to set aside as reserves as well as the
repurchase rate by a quarter percentage point next week, ING
Vysya Chief Executive Officer Shailendra Bhandari, 53, forecast
in an interview in Mumbai. The Bangalore-based bank is backed by
 ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch financial services company.  The lender will increase credit to mid-sized companies and
households in the world’s second-most populated nation as
cheaper borrowing costs reduce  default risk . Bhandari predicts
ING Vysya’s loans will rise more than the central bank’s
estimate of 17 percent growth for lenders in an economy that
grew at the slowest pace in nine years.  “Medium-sized banks can always grow faster if they focus
on the right businesses as they are more nimble in finding the
right opportunities,” Nitin Kumar, a Mumbai-based bank analyst
at Quant Broking Ltd., said by telephone yesterday. “ING
Vysya’s asset quality is good and the bank has avoided many
sectors that are under stress.”  India’s economy  expanded 5.3 percent in the three months
through March. It may grow 6.5 percent to 7 percent this year,
 Montek Singh Ahluwalia , the deputy chairman of the nation’s
planning commission, said on June 8, falling short of Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s goal of 9 percent annual gains.  Rising Defaults  The slowdown has put pressure on corporate borrowers
including airlines and developers. Air India Ltd. is getting a
$5.7 billion government bailout while  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) 
was forced to shut some services because of a cash shortage and
losses. At least three companies including  Hotel Leela Venture
Ltd. (LELA)  have also missed convertible bond payments this year.  Soured loans may more than double to 5.8 percent of total
advances by March 2013 in a worst-case scenario if the economy
continues to falter, the  Reserve Bank of India  estimated in
December.  Fitch Ratings  said last month that the slowing growth
is worsening lenders’ balance sheets.  ING Vysya has curbed its default ratio by avoiding loans to
power companies, real estate developers and airlines, Bhandari
said in Mumbai on June 13. The bank’s net bad loans narrowed to
0.18 percent of total  advances  for the year ended March 31, from
0.39 percent the previous year, it said April 24.  “I have been telling people from 2010 that because of high
 interest rates  and the slowing economy, bad loans will rise,”
he said. “Hopefully, the worst might be over.”  Stock Performance  ING Vysya fell 1.3 percent to 331.4 rupees in Mumbai
yesterday. The stock has risen 14 percent this year lagging
behind the 24 percent gain in the  Bankex index , which tracks the
performance of 14 rivals including  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the
nation’s largest.  Bhandari’s forecast for policy easing at the June 18
Reserve Bank of India meeting matches that of most economists.
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao may cut the repurchase rate by 25
basis points to 7.75 percent to support economic growth,
according to 14 of 18 economists in a  Bloomberg survey .  The monetary authority lowered borrowing costs to 8 percent
from 8.5 percent on April 17. It has also cut the amount lenders
must set aside as reserves twice in 2012 to ease a cash squeeze
in the economy.  Bhandari was hired as head of ING Vysya in August 2009. He
had previously been chief executive officer of Centurion Bank of
Punjab Ltd., which was acquired by HDFC Bank Ltd. in 2008.  Capital Requirements  ING Vysya, which raised 9.7 billion rupees through selling
shares in June 2011 to large investors and a preferential
allotment of equity to ING Groep, doesn’t plan to raise capital
until March, Bhandari said this week. The lender had a capital
adequacy ratio of 14 percent as of the end of March.  In 2002 ING Groep increased its stake in the bank to 44
percent from 20 percent. ING inherited 10 percent of Vysya Bank
when it bought  Belgium ’s Bank Brussels Lambert SA in 1998. It
increased its holding to 20 percent in November 1999.  Loans at Indian banks in total will climb 17 percent in the
current financial year, the  Reserve Bank  said in April. That
would be a slowdown from the 19.4 percent expansion in the
twelve months to March 31.  Indian lenders may also have to raise as much as $50
billion to add to their retained earnings to meet Basel III
 capital requirements  being set by the country’s central bank,
with more than 75 percent of the funds being required in the two
years starting April 1, 2016, Fitch Ratings said in May.  ING Vysya had 293 billion rupees ($5.3 billion) in
outstanding loans as of March 31, after expanding  credit  by 22
percent in the 12 month period. That compared with 8.9 trillion
rupees at  State Bank  of India, and 2.5 trillion rupees at No. 2-
ranked  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  The lender’s profit rose by 43 percent
for the year to 4.56 billion rupees.  “There is nothing to bite us down the line in terms of bad
loans,” said Bhandari.“We are looking at consistency and
predictability in earnings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  