-- Injunction Hearing Set in Apple-Motorola Mobility Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-14T23:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/injunction-hearing-set-in-apple-motorola-mobility-case.html
Apple Inc. won a court order
scheduling an injunction hearing in a patent lawsuit against
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit after a federal judge
canceled a trial set for June 11.  U.S. Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner scheduled the June 20
hearing, at which each side will be given the opportunity to
argue for an order barring the other from infringing. Posner’s
order, dated yesterday, was posted today on the court’s
electronic docket.  “The parties should be prepared to address the possibility
of substitution for an injunction of an equitable decree for a
reasonable royalty going forward,” Posner said in the one-page
ruling.  At a pretrial conference last week, the judge told lawyers
for the mobile-phone makers he was rejecting their respective
expert witness reports on damages and scrapping the trial then
set to start in four days.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , manufactures iPhone-
brand mobile phones. Motorola Mobility, the Libertyville,
Illinois-based business acquired by Google last month for $12.5
billion, makes phones that use Google’s Android operating
system.  Apple claims some Motorola Mobility products including its
Droid-branded phones and Xoom tablet computers infringe four of
its patents, while the Google unit contends Apple infringes one
of its cellular communications patents.  Final Judgment  “I have tentatively decided that the case should be
dismissed with prejudice because neither party can establish a
right to relief,” Posner said June 7 in a written order. He
also rejected Apple’s request for a hearing at which he would
consider only injunctive relief, adding he would delay entering
final judgment until he writes a lengthier decision.  “I may change my mind,” Posner said then.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment on Posner’s order. Jim Prosser, a spokesman for  Mountain
View , California-based Google, didn’t reply to a voice-mail
message seeking comment.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Motorola Inc., 11-cv-8540, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  ( Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 