-- LinkedIn’s Stolen Passwords Spell Profit for Gemalto
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-06-15T07:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/linkedin-s-stolen-passwords-spell-profit-for-gemalto.html
Gemalto NV (GTO)  wants to put high-tech
authentication devices in the hands of every  Facebook Inc. (FB)  user,
as high-profile hacking incidents spur concern over protecting
personal data on social networks.  Gemalto is in talks to sell its mix of hardware and
software security systems to networking sites, after signing
with banks, governments, and clients such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
 Boeing Co. (BA) , Chief Executive Officer Olivier Piou said.  Internet
service providers , whether they operate a social network or
online gaming application, are waking up to the fact that
password-only protection isn’t enough, he said.  “Every company has been or will be hacked,” the 53-year-
old said in an interview in Bloomberg’s offices in London
yesterday. “Whatever information you share today, you should
not assume it will be protected.”  Demand for smart chips used in bank and phone cards helped
propel Gemalto’s stock to become the  best performer  in the
SBF120 Index of France’s 120 biggest companies in the past year.
Now, Piou is targeting anxious consumers.  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , the
biggest online professional network, said last week hackers had
stolen 6.5 million user passwords. Customers of CBS Corp.’s
Last.fm music site and EHarmony Inc.’s dating portal also had
passwords stolen last week. Both companies suggested that users
immediately change their passwords.  High-Tech Bracelets  Gemalto, the inventor of the smart-card chip, said users
could use a combination of a password and the SIM card in their
mobile phones to log into their Facebook accounts, describing
one possible solution for social networks. Users could also
enter a pin code into a handheld device to generate a temporary
password to use on the Internet, similar to offerings from some
banks. Other alternatives include  fingerprint readers , USB keys
and  high-tech bracelets , Piou said.  Gemalto, based in Amsterdam and with annual  revenue  of 2
billion euros ($2.5 billion), makes about half of its sales from
subscriber identification module, or SIM, cards for mobile
phones and services to network operators. It signed its first
security contract in 2004 with the U.S. government.  Today, Gemalto’s security unit helps make American and
French passports as well as manage employee access to sensitive
data in companies, all using a two-part identity check, with
software and hardware support.  Sony Hackers  LinkedIn, based in  Mountain View ,  California , said last
week that it was in contact with the U.S.  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation after user passwords were posted on a hacker site.  Sony Corp. (6758) , the maker of PlayStation game consoles, was hit
last year when hackers compromised more than 100 million
customer accounts in April and 93,000 others in October.  Piou, who has been running Gemalto since it was created in
2006 through the merger of Gemplus and Axalto, said the
company’s 5,000 patents allowed it to find new security
offerings.  “Customers today expect security to be provided by the
service providers, by the Sonys and LinkedIns,” he said.
“Every service provider needs to have a non-repudiable identity
check, whether to access data, to pay, whether you want to
access your Facebook wall or the wall of your friends.”  Gemalto, which competes with Germany’s Giesecke & Devrient
GmbH and  France ’s Oberthur Technologies SA, already works with
Facebook through a SIM application which allows users to connect
to the social network from basic phones lacking the graphic
functionality of smartphones, providing a text-menu access to
status updates, pokes and friend requests.  Perfect Curve  The security unit has the potential to become Gemalto’s
most profitable, as revenue growth at the division continues to
follow “a perfect J curve”, Piou said.  The unit posted an operating profit of 29.8 million euros
last year on sales of 310 million euros, accounting for 15
percent of total revenue. The division had a profit margin of
9.6 percent compared with 11.9 percent for the company. The
figures exclude some smaller assets Gemalto is holding for sale.  In March, the company forecast revenue and operating profit
will increase this year. Gemalto, which has been shifting
revenue from older commoditized smart chips to new security
technology, predicts its business will also benefit from a ramp-
up in contactless mobile payment and machine-to-machine
transmissions. Gemalto this year unveiled a SIM-card tested by
 Mastercard Inc. (MA) ,  Visa Inc. (V)  and  American Express Co. (AXP)  to get more
mobile operators on board with wireless payment.  Expensive Target  The stock dropped 0.2 percent to 52.18 euros at 9:45 a.m.,
valuing the company at 4.6 billion euros. The shares have more
than doubled since the company’s 2006 foundation.  Asked whether Gemalto will become a takeover target
following the acquisition of British software and technology
services companies  Logica Plc (LOG) , Autonomy Corp. and Misys Plc in
the last 12 months, Piou said the company would probably be too
expensive for potential buyers.  “I was more concerned when we did the IPO,” he said. “We
could have been gobbled up easily. Today we are worth about 4
billion euros. A company couldn’t just come up with 10 billion
euros like that. If they were to buy us, they would need a good
plan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in  London  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  