-- Interline Sued by Investor Over $1.1 Billion Goldman Deal
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-06-14T16:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/interline-sued-by-investor-over-1-1-billion-goldman-deal.html
Interline Brands Inc. (IBI) , a distributor
of janitorial, plumbing and lighting products that went public
in 2004, was sued by an investor contending its purchase by
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s private-equity unit and P2 Capital
Partners LLC undervalues the company.  Interline board members are selling the company “by means
of an unfair process and for an unfair price,” Diane Cohen, the
investor, alleged in court papers made public today in  Delaware 
Chancery Court.  Funds managed by GS Capital Partners and P2 Capital are to
pay Interline stockholders $25.50 a share. The proposed
transaction is valued at $1.1 billion including debt.  Besides selling too cheaply, the directors wrongfully
agreed to “certain onerous and preclusive deal protection
devices” that discourage other offers, according to Cohen.  The proposed deal contains a provision barring the company
from soliciting competing offers and forcing it to end any
negotiations with prospective suitors, the investor claims. The
funds also have a right to match any higher bids, according to
court papers.  Access to Information  “The merger agreement gives the buyout group access to any
rival bidder’s information and allows the buyout group a free
right to top any superior offer simply by matching it,” lawyers
for Cohen wrote.  Interline would pay the buyout group a termination fee of
$29.9 million if the company decided to pursue the competing
offer, according to court papers. GS  Capital Partners  and P2
Capital Partners would receive a termination fee of
$13.9 million if Interline accepted a better proposal during the
so-called go-shop period, according to a May 29 regulatory
filing.  The deal would mark Interline’s return to private hands
after eight years. Formed as Wilmar Industries in 1978, the
company went public in 1996 and was purchased four years later
by an investor group including Parthenon Capital LLC, Chase
Capital Partners, Chase Manhattan Bank and Sterling Investment
Partners LP in a cash deal valued at about $300.8 million. The
company raised $187.5 million in its public offering in 2004.  Officials of Interline couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment on the suit.  Interline rose 5 cents to $25.15 at 12:20 p.m. in  New York 
trading.  The case is Cohen v. Grebe, CA7622, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 