-- Iran Ministry Cancels Saudi Trip Over Executions, Mehr Says
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2012-06-14T09:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/iran-ministry-cancels-saudi-trip-over-executions-mehr-says.html
Iran has canceled a proposed trip to
 Saudi Arabia  by a top Foreign Ministry official after the Arab
country’s execution of several Iranians for drug trafficking,
 Mehr  reported.  The Iranian deputy foreign minister for Arab and African
affairs, Hossein Amir-Abdollahian, was scheduled to travel to
 Jeddah  and meet with top Saudi Arabia officials yesterday
including Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal, the state-run Mehr
reported, without saying where it got the information. He
planned to invite Saud to a summit of the Non-Aligned Movement
to be held in Tehran in August, Mehr said.  The executions may exacerbate tensions between the two
countries over recent months. Saudi Arabia has said it perceives
 Iran’s nuclear program  as a threat, while Iran has condemned the
kingdom’s military intervention in Bahrain. U.S. officials have
said Iran backed a plot to assassinate the Saudi ambassador in
 Washington .  Iran’s Foreign Ministry summoned the Saudi charge
d’affaires earlier this week to protest the execution of the
prisoners, who had been detained five years ago, the state-run
 Press TV  news channel reported. Iranian officials say they were
not given consular access and weren’t provided with lawyers or
translators. Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  told reporters in Tehran two days ago that the
Saudi move would have “political repercussions.”  Saudi Arabia, which holds 20 percent of the world’s oil
reserves, enforces restrictions interpreted from the Wahhabi
version of Sunni Islam. The kingdom usually beheads or sentences
people to lashings for murder, rape and drug-smuggling, and has
been criticized by international human rights groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran via Dubai at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  