-- Irish Tell Spain to Imagine the Worst in Banking Bailout
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-06-14T22:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/irish-tell-spain-to-imagine-the-worst-in-banking-bailout.html
Ireland has this banking advice for
 Spain : imagine the worst and double it.  Like Ireland, Spain sought a bank bailout after being
felled by a real-estate crash. Now, just as the Irish did, the
Spanish are awaiting the results of outside stress tests gauging
the size of the hole in the banking system.  “Think of the worst possible scenario on banking losses:
then double it,” said Eoin Fahy, an economist at Kleinwort
Benson Investors in Dublin. “Adopt the most conservative
assumptions.”  Nine hundred miles northwest of  Madrid , Irish analysts
wring three lessons from its own banking crisis, among the worst
in history. First, quickly present an accurate estimate of the
bad loans. Second, force banks to face up to losses, possibly
through the creation of a so-called bad bank. Third, share as
much of the loss as possible with bank bondholders.  “Spain should face the economic reality, even if they have
to value property loans at discounts of 40, 60 or even 80
percent,” said  Alan Ahearne , former economic adviser to  Brian Lenihan , the finance minister who presided over Ireland’s
response to the near-collapse of its financial system. “If the
real losses aren’t faced up to, who’s that going to fool?”  Spain’s government already ordered banks to set aside
provisions equivalent to 45 percent on the nation’s 307 billion-
euro ($387 billion) book of loans linked to real-estate
developers, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said May 11.  Outside Audit  By bringing in outside experts to examine the banks, signs
are that Spain is drawing some lessons from Ireland’s mistakes.
After agreeing to a bailout of as much as 100 billion euros for
its lenders, the Spanish government is awaiting the results of
an audit of the banks by international firms Roland Berger
Strategy Consultants and Oliver Wyman Ltd.  The  International Monetary Fund , in a report released last
week, said that Spain’s banks need at least 37 billion euros to
weather a contracting economy.  It took Ireland 2 1/2 years after guaranteeing the
financial system in 2008 to bring in outside experts to comb
through the banks’ books.  In October of 2008, Lenihan called the Irish guarantee the
cheapest bailout in the world, as the state had injected nothing
into its lenders at that point. Two months later, he said the
banks may need much as 10 billion euros. Two years later, the
central bank ordered lenders to raise a further 29.2 billion
euros. In September 2010, they needed a further 12.1 billion
euros, as loans were sold to the country’s bad bank.  Lesson Learned  With bank costs escalating, investors shunned Irish
sovereign debt and forced the nation into a bailout. As part of
the rescue agreement, the central bank hired  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  to
assess the capital shortage at the banks. Based on those tests,
the banks needed an additional 24 billion euros.  “Spain has learned one key lesson,” Fahy at Kleinwort
Benson Investors said. “Bring in outside, completely
independent people to assess the losses.”  Once the losses are quantified, Spain must consider how to
deal with those bad loans. For now, Spain is sticking to
propping up and restructuring failing lenders, defying some
pressure from its aid partners to take more radical action.  Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said on June 11 that
Spain should split up some lenders, with some loans dispatched
to a bad bank, as Ireland did.  Crystalizing Losses  On the advice of economist Peter Bacon, Lenihan decided to
set up the National Asset Management Agency to purge its banks
of about 74 billion euros of toxic real estate assets.  The agency paid about 32 billion euros for the commercial
real-estate loans, crystallizing massive losses in the Irish
financial system.  While the then-government originally estimated that banks
would suffer an average 30 percent discount on the loans, by the
time the final loans were transferred in 2010 the discount had
risen to 57 percent. The capital holes were then mostly filled
by the state.  “Conceptually, it’s still the best way of cleaning up the
banks,” said Bacon in an interview. “I’m not sure about the
Spanish banks, but if there is a credibility issue over their
ability to manage risky property loans, than it’s probably
better to remove them from their balance sheets.”  In theory, the removal of risky real estate loans freed the
Irish banks to restart lending. In reality, that hasn’t happened,
as banks hoard capital to guard against future losses on their
souring mortgage loans and public funding markets remain closed.  ‘Tread Carefully’  NAMA’s operations are also drawing criticism. Bacon said
this week that the agency may be doomed to losses as the agency
sells assets in a falling market. Irish commercial property
prices have declined about 65 percent since their peak in 2007,
according to Investment Property Databank Ltd.  “I’d advise that Spain tread carefully,” said Michael
McGrath, finance spokesman with Ireland’s Fianna Fail, which was
the main ruling party when NAMA was created. “If they set up a
NAMA-type company, they may find a black hole that is much worse
than they ever imagined, as was the case in Ireland.”  Once the losses and capital needs are known, the state
needs to figure how to fill the holes. While the  European
Central Bank  has ruled out imposing any losses on senior bank
bondholders, the Irish playbook suggests junior bondholders may
be at risk. In 2010, Ireland introduced emergency laws allowing
the state to secure court orders to change the terms of junior
bonds.  Bondholder Risks  In all, subordinated bondholders suffered about 15 billion
euros of losses in Ireland, helped by the direct or threatened
use of the new laws, due to expire this year.  Spain may be reluctant to impose losses on holders of
junior debt.  Bankia Group (BKIA)  is among Spanish lenders that sold
22.4 billion euros of preferred stock to individual investors
through retail branches, according to data compiled by CNMV, the
financial markets supervisor.  Because of capital structure rules, these investors should
be wiped out before losses are imposed on junior debt holders, a
move Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government may shy
away from unless he introduces laws to protect them.  Other key differences between Ireland and Spain’s banking
crisis are emerging, said Philip Lane, head of economics at
Trinity College Dublin. Writing on the irisheconomy.ie website,
he noted that real estate loans peaked at 77 percent of the
Irish economy, compared with 29 percent in Spain. The Spanish
bailout is also 9 percent of their economy, compared with 63
billion euros, or 43 percent, in Ireland.  ‘Receding Horizon’  Yet the core issues are the same, according to Irish
analysts, who expect Spanish banking woes to push the nation
into a full bailout. Spain’s 10-year bond yield rose to a euro-
era record of 6.998 percent yesterday. Ireland sought a full
bailout when yields reached 7.99 percent on Nov. 19, 2010.  “Spain, like Ireland, has over the last few years been
pushing through fiscal and financial reforms,” said Ray Kinsella, a professor of finance at University College Dublin.
“But, like Ireland, it continues to chase a receding horizon in
terms of banking stability. The situation continues to move
ahead of the Spanish authorities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  