-- Israel Current Account Deficit Doubles as Exports Decline
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-06-14T10:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/israel-current-account-deficit-doubles-as-exports-decline-1-.html
Israel’s  current account  deficit
nearly doubled in the first quarter from the previous three
months, as the  trade balance  worsened.  The seasonally adjusted deficit was $1.67 billion in the
three months through March, compared with a revised deficit of
$858 million in the previous quarter, the  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said in an e-mailed statement today.  “The crisis in  Europe  led to a decline in the exports of
goods, which was partly offset by an increase in exports of
services,” the bureau said. “At the same time, there was
increase in imports of both goods and services.”  Israel has maintained an annual surplus in its current
account since 2003 as exports, which make up about 40 percent of
gross domestic product, helped power growth of around 5 percent
in most of the period. The  International Monetary Fund  projects
a current account deficit of 1 percent of GDP this year and 0.2
percent next year, according to a April 2 report.  Israel  posted a $2.6 billion deficit in the balance of
trade of goods and services in the first quarter compared with a
$1.2 billion shortfall in the previous quarter, the bureau said
today.  Since January 2009, two major natural-gas discoveries have
been made off Israel’s Mediterranean coast, the Tamar field,
which may hold 8.4 trillion cubic feet of gas, and the Leviathan
field, which holds an estimated 16 trillion cubic feet. The
impact of the gas finds on Israel’s current-account will
probably be small until 2016, and then rise to 1 percent to 1.5
percent of GDP through the next decade, according to a UBS AG
report from May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  