-- Israel Inflation Probably Slowed in May as Fuel Prices Declined
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-06-14T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/israel-inflation-probably-slowed-in-may-as-fuel-prices-declined.html
Israeli  inflation  probably slowed in
May as fuel prices declined and economic growth moderated.  Consumer prices likely rose 0.3 percent from the previous
month compared with 0.9 percent in April, according to the
median estimate of 12 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The
annual inflation rate declined to 2 percent from 2.1 percent,
according to the survey. The Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of
Statistics  will release the data at 2 p.m. local time today.  Economic growth is expected to slow to 3.1 percent this
year from 4.8 percent in 2011, according to central bank
estimates, as Europe grapples with its financial crisis. More
than 40 percent of Israel’s gross domestic product is made up of
exports with Europe one of the largest markets. Central bank
Governor  Stanley Fischer  said Israel is preparing for various
scenarios in Europe.  “The decline in growth is hurting demand and this is
expressed in the  consumer price index ,” Chaim Natan, chief
economist at Menora Mivtachim Investment House, said in a
telephone interview. “Fischer won’t have any choice but to
lower the  interest rate  because growth is slowing and inflation
is under control.”  The  Bank of Israel  monetary committee, led by Fischer, held
its benchmark  interest rate  at 2.5 percent for a fourth month at
the end of May. The committee is expected to leave the rate
unchanged at its next decision on June 25, according to 13 of
the 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg at the end of May. Eight
said the panel would cut by a quarter-point.  Deficit Widens  Israel’s  current account  deficit widened in the first
quarter to the most in more than 11 years, as the  trade balance 
worsened, the bureau reported June 14. The crisis in Europe led
to a decline in exports, the bureau said. Europe purchases about
one-third of Israeli exports.  Slowing global growth has moderated  oil prices , helping to
bring about a reduction in the price of Israeli gasoline.  The
price of a liter of gasoline was cut by 1.8 percent in May, with
95 octane gasoline dropping to 7.65 shekels, from 7.79 shekels
the previous month, the Ministry of Energy and Water Resources
said April 30.  Economists’ 12-month  inflation expectations  fell to 2.3
percent on average from 2.6 percent the previous month, the
central bank said on May 20. The government’s target is 1
percent to 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  