-- Italy Quakes Threaten Summer Tourism as Recession Bites
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-06-14T22:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/italy-quakes-threaten-summer-tourism-as-recession-bites.html
Italy’s strongest earthquakes in
three years and more than 1,800 aftershocks are deterring
tourists in the peak summer season, compounding a slowdown in
the industry as  Europe ’s economy stagnates.  With 110 kilometers (68 miles) of coastline and pulsing
resort towns like Rimini and Riccione, the quake-stricken region
of Emilia-Romagna is one of the country’s top summer
destinations, attracting almost 9 million tourists a year. Many
of them, especially foreigners, have canceled trips following
last month’s temblors, which killed at least 25 people,
Alessandro Giorgetti, head of the Emilia-Romagna chapter of the
Federalberghi hotel lobby, said in a phone interview.  “In light of the crisis and following the two quakes, I
expect hotel revenue in the region to drop as much as 15 percent
this month compared to last year,” said Giorgetti, who owns two
of Emilia-Romagna’s 3,000 hotels. “I fear an even deeper
slump,” he said.  With more than 76 million tourists a year,  Italy  is one of
the most visited countries in the European Union. Tourism
accounts for almost 10 percent of Italy’s gross domestic product
and employs about 2.5 million people, according to research
group Eurispes. Spending by foreign tourists rose 5.6 percent
last year even amid the debt crisis,  Bank of Italy  data show.  Emilia-Romagna, which in addition to sandy beaches and
throbbing nightlife is home to historical cities like Ravenna
and the Ferrari auto museum in Maranello, generated tourism
revenue of 11.3 billion euros ($14 billion) in 2011. The
Adriatic coastline accounts for more than 80 percent of that
figure, according to the region’s press office.  L’Aquila Disaster  The Emilia-Romagna quakes -- a 5.9-magnitude temblor on
May 20 and a 5.8-magnitude one on May 29 -- were the strongest
in the country since the April 6, 2009 earthquake in L’Aquila
that killed more than 300 people. There have been 1,852
aftershocks since the May 20 temblor, including a 4.3-magnitude
quake on June 12, according to the Italian Institute of
Geophysics and Vulcanology.  Neither of the May quakes struck near the coast, with the
epicenters some 100 kilometers away near Modena. Still, many
sun-seeking foreign travelers were scared off, Giorgetti said.  “Some people think the Po valley has been split in two,”
he said. “One German man called from Dortmund to ask if the
Bologna airport had been destroyed.” The airport is operating
normally and no flights have been canceled since the quakes hit,
according to its press office.  Media Campaign  Italy’s Ministry of Tourism, Sports and Regional Affairs
and the national tourism agency Enit have launched a media
campaign focused on foreign markets, especially Germany and
 Russia , to reassure travelers that the region is safe.  The quakes, which employers’ lobby Confindustria estimates
caused more than 4 billion euros in damage to the economy, came
at a time when Italy’s  consumer confidence  fell to its lowest in
more than 15 years and austerity measures have helped push the
country into its fourth recession since 2001. Prime Minister
 Mario Monti ’s government approved a 20 billion-euro austerity
plan in December that included tax increases, crimping domestic
demand.  Gas Prices  To help fund aid to the stricken region, Monti’s Cabinet
approved an additional tax hike of 2 cents per liter of
gasoline. That could further hurt tourism in the region, said
Gianmario Ferrari, owner of three hotels in Rimini. With  gas
prices  soaring, “can you imagine how much it costs for someone
who lives up north to come down here,” he said.  Italy suffers about 2,000 earthquakes a year, with more
than 3 million people living in seismic areas, according to the
National Council of Geologists. Almost half of Italy’s territory
is at risk of a quake, with more than 6 million buildings in
seismic areas, the group said.  Many historical buildings and churches in Emilia-Romagna,
including a 14th century castle in Ferrara, were damaged by the
quakes, marking the greatest loss to Italy’s heritage
since a 1997 temblor ravaged the Basilica of Saint Francis in
Assisi.  Damage to Emilia-Romagna’s cultural heritage “is the real
worry,” said Matteo Caroli, a professor at the Luiss Guido
Carli University in  Rome . Historical towns that used to attract
travelers “may need new marketing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  