-- Ivory Coast, Ghana Cocoa Areas to Get Rains Over 7 Days
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-14T16:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/ivory-coast-ghana-cocoa-areas-to-get-rains-over-7-days.html
Ivory Coast  and Ghana, the world’s
largest cocoa producers, will get rains over the next seven
days, potentially helping crop development, according to the
U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.  Most areas of top grower Ivory Coast and second-ranking
Ghana will get 30 millimeters (1.18 inches) to 40 millimeters of
rain through June 21, data on the NOAA  website  today show. Some
areas on the coasts of both countries will get between 75
millimeters and 100 millimeters, the data show.  Wet weather may help crop development after dryness earlier
this year delayed the start of the mid-crop, the smaller of two
annual harvests. Rainfall levels in Ivory Coast in the first 10
days of June were below historical averages, data from the
country’s National Meteorological Service show. Concerns about
weather for this season and the next have helped cocoa to gain
3.3 percent on NYSE Liffe in  London  this week.  “The bull community seems to be growing by the day and the
argument is based on fundamental changes,” Eric Sivry, the
London-based head of the agriculture options brokerage at Marex
Spectron Group, said in a report e-mailed today. “One of the
key aspects is a greater evidence of an El Nino weather pattern
for the next season.”  El Nino conditions, a warming of the mid-Pacific Ocean that
causes rains in cocoa areas in  Ecuador  and dry weather in third-
biggest grower  Indonesia , are likely to develop in the coming
months, according to  Australia ’s Bureau of Meteorology. The
weather pattern usually results in a 2.4 percent drop in global
production and could exacerbate a shortage next season, the
International Cocoa Organization in London said.  Ghana ’s cocoa production will fall to 850,000 metric tons
in the season that ends on Sept. 30, down from 1.1 million tons
a year earlier, according to industry regulator Ghana Cocoa
Board. The drop was caused by below-average rain late last year,
Chied Executive Officer Tony Fofie said in an interview at an
industry event in  Washington  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 