-- Ivory Coast Insecurity Grows as Residents Flee Western Attacks
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2012-06-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/ivory-coast-insecurity-grows-as-residents-flee-western-attacks.html
An ambush that killed seven United
Nations peacekeepers, the deadliest attack on foreign troops in
 Ivory Coast  in eight years, marks growing insecurity in the key
cocoa-growing area along its porous border with Liberia.  The troops from  Niger  patrolling villages were ambushed and
killed on June 8. At least 10 civilians and an Ivorian soldier
also died in the attack. It was the worst since a government
fighter jet bombed a military camp in 2004, killing nine French
soldiers. Four more residents died in attacks in the area
overnight on June 12 and as many as 5,000 people have fled their
homes, according to the UN.  Ivory Coast, the world’s biggest cocoa producer, is
recovering from violence that left at least 3,000 dead following
ex-leader Laurent Gbagbo’s refusal to cede power to  Alassane Ouattara  after a November 2010 election. The attacks are
extending a decade of violence which started with a military
uprising in 2002 that left the West African nation divided
between a government-controlled south and rebel-held north.
Ouattara was inaugurated in May 2011.  “We are very worried as the troubles are recurring,”
Kader Kobenan, head of a farmers’ cooperative in the region,
said by phone from Guiglo. “I’m afraid I won’t be able to
harvest any  cocoa beans  during the mid crop,” he said,
referring to the May-to-September harvest that produces smaller
beans than the main season.  The attack on the peacekeepers is similar to recent raids
by Liberian mercenaries and Ivorian militiamen who supported
Gbagbo in last year’s conflict, Matt Wells, a researcher at
Human Rights Watch, based in  New York , said by phone on June 11.
Gbagbo instigated an anti-UN campaign last year in a failed bid
to force the departure of the peacekeeping mission.  Cocoa Farmers  “The fighters have larger ambitions and they expressed
them again and again -- they spoke of attacking the southern
town of Tabou,” Wells said. The information was based on
interviews conducted in the area, according to the group.  Ivory Coast’s western region is seen by farmers as the most
fertile area for cocoa because plantations there are younger
than in the western and central growing regions and the forest
hasn’t been totally cleared.  “The area is notoriously difficult to monitor given the
dense vegetation and the long 700-kilometer (435-mile) border,”
Wells said. The region includes Tai National Park, the largest
remaining pocket of primary rainforest in West Africa, which has
been  designated  a World Heritage site by the UN Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization.  Eurobonds Yield  “The problem of insecurity is not new. There are too many
guns circulating in the region,” Moussa Zoungrana, head of a
group of cocoa-farmer cooperatives, said by phone from Guiglo.
“Many cocoa farmers have left their farms and they are scared
to go back.”  Ivory Coast accounts for about 34 percent of the world’s
total cocoa production, the biggest export in its $23 billion
economy. Growth is forecast to expand 8.1 percent this year from
a 4.7 percent contraction in 2011, led by a halt in exports of
cocoa and coffee during the post-election crisis, according to
the  Finance Ministry . Coffee output plunged 32 percent in the
2010-11 season, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Cocoa for July delivery gained 1 percent to 1,568 pounds
($2,440) per metric ton by 6:38 p.m. in  London  yesterday. The
yield on Ivory Coast’s defaulted Eurobonds, due in 2032, rose 26
basis points, or 0.26 percentage point, to 9.82 percent.  Soldiers Everywhere  Some refugees say their plantations were seized by Ouattara
supporters when the conflict ended last year, according to Anna Osborne, a senior analyst with risk-advisory company Maplecroft,
based in Bath, U.K.  “Land issues compound political tensions,” she said in an
e-mailed note on June 12. “More attacks are likely unless
Ouattara addresses security sector reform and political
reconciliation outside of Abidjan.”  Ivory Coast’s ability to patrol the remote region is
limited, Paul Koffi Koffi, the minister delegate for defense,
said by phone on June 12.  “There are dozens of villages on the border with
 Liberia ,” he said. “Whatever our military capacity, we are not
able to put soldiers everywhere.”  During the post-election crisis, Gbagbo supporters
recruited Liberian mercenaries in the country and in a refugee
camp in  Ghana  to use as a parallel fighting force, according to
a UN panel of experts report published in December 2011.  Mercenary Commanders  It is estimated that “several hundred Liberian mercenaries
who fought in Moyen-Cavally, including most of their commanders,
have returned to Liberia unhindered,” according to the report.
The region of Moyen-Cavally includes villages where the current
attacks are taking place.  In May 2011, less than a month after Gbagbo was arrested in
Abidjan, about 300 people were killed by a group of pro-Gbagbo
fighters from Liberia and Ivory Coast that were retreating from
the city back to Liberia, the UN panel said in the report. It
found evidence of “execution-style killings and the use of a
flamethrower against civilians” along the coastal route.  In Liberia, which is recovering from civil wars that ended
in 2003, young men working at five small-scale  gold mines  are
participating in and planning cross-border attacks on supporters
of Ouattara, according to a  Human Rights Watch  report published
last week. President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf closed the border on
June 9 and suspended mining in the area, according to a
statement.  Porous Border  “The closing of the border by Liberia will have little
effect,” Osborne said. “The border is porous and poorly
monitored so shutting down the official border is unlikely to
prevent further attacks.”  Liberia is extraditing Ivorian mercenaries in detention and
conducting surveillance on refugee camps, Deputy Information
Minister for Public Affairs Isaac Jackson said by phone on June
12. Closing the border shows Liberia’s commitment to preventing
further attacks, he said.  Shutting the crossing is “symbolically and psychologically
a very good thing,” Koffi Koffi said. Ivorian officials are
“sure those attacks come from the other side of the border from
mercenaries and militias financially supported by the former
power and its officials based in Ghana,” he said.  Three militants in Liberia told Human Rights Watch they
were receiving financial support from people in Ghana, Ivory
Coast’s eastern neighbor, according to the report.  Ghana Refugees  Ghana hosts about 11,000 refugees from Ivory Coast,
including 171 suspected ex-combatants, Kenneth Dzirasah,
chairman of the Ghana Refugee Board, said by phone on June 11.  The Human Rights Watch report is “misrepresenting the real
issues,” he said. “They didn’t even bother to consult the
Ghanaian authorities before going public.”  Ghana, the world’s second-biggest cocoa producer, may come
under increasing pressure from Ivory Coast, said Osborne. A
refugee camp near the Ghanaian capital, Accra, is “known to
play host to prominent pro-Gbagbo supporters who freely move
around the country and region,” she said.  “Given recent events, further pressure is likely to be put
on the Ghanaian president to show that he is not supporting any
insurgency movement,” Osborne said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  