-- Japan, Australian Stock Futures Rise on Policy Stimulus
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-06-14T23:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/japan-australian-stock-futures-rise-on-policy-stimulus.html
Japanese and Australian  stock
futures  rose after an increase in the number of Americans
applying for jobless benefits added to speculation that central
banks will take further steps to spur economic growth.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. (8316) , Japan’s second-largest lender, gained 1.5 percent as
investors sought shares of companies with earnings tied to
economic growth. Those of  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s
second-biggest oil producer, climbed 0.8 percent as crude
advanced.  DeNA Co. (2432) , Japan’s No. 1 social-gaming operator, may be
active after saying it plans to spend as much as 20 billion yen
($252 million) to buy back as much as 10 percent of its
outstanding shares.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 8,580 in  Chicago  yesterday, up from 8,570 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,590 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index advanced 0.6 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.4 percent in Wellington. Today is the final day of
trading before an election in Greece that may determine its
future within the euro currency bloc.  Markets “believe that low inflation plus increasingly soft
labor-market numbers equals another round of quantitative
easing,” said Matthew Sherwood, Perpetual Investments’ head of
investment markets research in Sydney. Perpetual manages about
$23 billion. “Investors are on guard for the Greek election on
June 17.”  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The gauge added 1.1 percent yesterday.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  declined 12 percent from this
year’s peak on Feb. 29 through yesterday amid concern growth in
the U.S. and China is slowing and as Europe’s debt crisis
intensified. The gauge has gained 1.4 percent this week amid
speculation central banks and governments will move to stem the
slowdown in global economic growth.  More Americans applied for jobless benefits and consumer
prices dropped by the most in three years, giving the Federal
Reserve room to spur an economy that’s generating little growth
or inflation.  Bloomberg News reported that U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne and Bank of England Governor Mervyn
King are preparing two programs to increase the flow of credit.
Reuters said central banks of major economies are prepared to
take action if needed to boost liquidity in financial markets if
the June 17 Greek elections cause tumultuous trading, citing
officials linked to the Group of 20 nations.  Close Poll  Polls show neither party in  Greece  is likely to gain enough
votes to secure a parliamentary majority. Syriza, led by Alexis
Tsipras, has promised to annul terms of the Greek bailout
proposed by the European Commission,  European Central Bank  and
 International Monetary Fund . New Democracy leader Antonis
Samaras, who supports the bailout conditions, said backing
Syriza will effectively remove Greece from the euro.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.8 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 5.7 percent advance by the
 S&P 500  and a 1.1 percent drop on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Shares on the Asian benchmark are  valued  at 1.2 times book
value, compared with 2.1 times for the S&P 500 and 1.3 times for
the Stoxx 600, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A number
below one means companies can be bought for less than value of
their assets.  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials
climbed 1 percent yesterday.  Oil for July delivery gained 1.6 percent to settle at
$83.91 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the biggest
increase since April 11, as OPEC members were asked to cut
production that exceeds their current output ceiling.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. fell 0.5 percent to 90.02 in New
York yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  