-- JPMorgan’s Trading Strategy Unique Among Big Banks, Curry Says
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-14T21:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/jpmorgan-s-trading-strategy-unique-among-big-banks-curry-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s chief
investment office engaged in trading strategies that set it
apart from other major U.S. banks, according to  Thomas Curry ,
head of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  OCC examiners probing JPMorgan’s $2 billion trading loss
have concluded that other big banks the agency regulates haven’t
followed similar practices with large, illiquid hedges, Curry
said in a letter to Senator  Sherrod Brown  dated June 12.
JPMorgan was more heavily involved in synthetic credit
derivatives than other banks, he said.  “This event deserves our attention, not just because it is
an unexpectedly large loss, but because of the broader questions
it raises regarding risk management and reporting within the
bank,” Curry said in the letter, responding to questions from
the Ohio Democrat.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said on May 10
his company suffered losses after making trades on  credit
derivatives  that Bloomberg News first reported April 5. Trades
involving the so-called  IG9 index  were involved, according to
the OCC. The loss has spurred lawmakers and regulators to
investigate trading behavior and regulatory interactions at the
largest U.S. bank.  In early April, the bank gave regulators information on the
positions that spurred meetings with bank management, Curry
said. The agency’s examiners told the bank to provide more
details on scope and risk, and they were evaluating the
positions and the bank’s strategy when the positions started a
steep decline, he said.  Dimon told senators at a hearing yesterday that the losses
came from “a complex series of trades” that wasn’t “just one
single thing.” He said that his company initially misinformed
regulators on specifics because its management misunderstood the
positions at the time.  “The second we found out, the first people we got on the
phone with was our regulators to explain ‘We have a problem, we
want to describe it to you’,” Dimon said in testimony. “And,
of course, they’ve been deeply engaged since then.”  Eight OCC examiners at JPMorgan focused on capital markets
activities, according to the letter, with one specifically
watching the bank’s CIO.  “The CIO activities were not historically considered to be
high-risk,” Curry said, describing its $350 billion investment
portfolio as “high  credit quality .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  