-- Kaiser Permanente Links Climate Change to Health Care
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i n s t o n
-- 2012-06-14T15:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/kaiser-permanente-links-climate-change-to-health-care.html
     Kaiser Permanente (KP), one of the largest health care
providers in America, has a clear mission: improve health. In
a surprising and welcome twist, KP is publicly recognizing
that climate change threatens that mission. This health care
leader is showing how an authentic, mission-driven connection
to global issues can drive change.  The topic of climate change has become so
politicized, it's rare to hear company representatives and
CEOs admit that they're taking a course of action specifically
in response to a climate-related threat. But that's starting
to change, even in sectors you might not think have a direct
stake in climate change.  KP is not a minor player in a health care industry that
accounts for 16% of U.S. GDP and 8% of greenhouse gas
emissions. With $44 billion in revenues, KP runs
hospitals, clinics and health plans, serving more than 9
million members in nine states (and Washington, DC). The
"company" is technically a not-for-profit, but in my
experience that matters little to medical device and pharma
companies that experience KP as a very, very large customer
with large demands.  The company has made increasing commitments to renewable
energy as part of its aggressive greenhouse gas (GHG)
reduction goals (30% by 2020). KP is buying both carbon
offsets and significant onsite energy — 11 megawatts of solar
and 4 megawatts of fuel cell generation, for example.  All of this is surprising since the health care
sustainability agenda has mostly focused on supply chain
issues, reducing exposure of patients and workers to toxic
chemicals, green building, and general eco-efficiency. Why are
they doing so much on renewable energy?  I spoke recently with Kathy Gerwig, KP's Environmental
Stewardship Officer, to find out. I expected a more typical
answer about achieving GHG reduction goals or doing the right
thing. What I got instead was one of the most straightforward
statements about the role of climate change in public health
and in corporate strategy.  As Gerwig put it, "there's credible evidence of
significant climate change that will impact our ability to
provide quality health care."  She laid out four broad categories of the health effects:  Severe weather: Hurricanes, wildfires, floods, and
heat waves all injure and kill people. Hospitals — and all
businesses for that matter — need to prepare for these
extremes.  Respiratory diseases: Air quality in general deeply
affects health. This is, as Gerwig says, mainly about the
short-term consequences of not dealing with burning fossil
fuels and the changing climate.  Infectious diseases: As the planet warms, bugs like
mosquitos can survive and thrive further north, spreading
diseases to new areas. According to the UN, previously
untouched areas like the southern U.S. and Mexico will face
malaria, yellow fever, and dengue by 2050.  The "what we don't know" bucket: While the science is
clear that climate change is a serious problem, we still don't
know a lot about how it will play out (this is not the same as
saying the science is so uncertain that we shouldn't do
something). "What we know so far about the repercussions of
climate change isn't good," Gerwig says, "such as water
shortages and increased wars over resources, and all the
health issues that go along with those."  We need all sectors to man the barricades and take
positions. Setting a 30 percent absolute GHG reduction goal by
2020 is in line with what scientists tell us we need to
do, and it's unusually aggressive. But integrating
sustainability and climate change into the health care mission
of the organization is the real story here, and its one that
companies should emulate quickly.  Andrew Winston is the co-author of the
best-seller Green to Gold and the author of Green Recovery. He
advises some of the world’s biggest companies on environmental
strategy.  Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the latest
from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global
business.
 