-- Karan, Sean Penn for Haiti; Lilly’s Lechleiter: D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-06-14T15:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/karan-sean-penn-for-haiti-lilly-s-lechleiter-d-c-.html
Haitian Prime Minister Laurent Lamothe,  Donna Karan  and  Sean Penn  were at the Inter-American
Development Bank’s Cultural Center last night for the opening of
“Discover Haiti,” an exhibition of products and artwork from
the beleaguered island.  “It’s papier-mache,” said a beaming Karan of her tote
bag, a brown checkerboard of woven papier-mache strips.
“Everyone’s been asking me about it.” The fashion designer
sported strappy sandals and hair in a tight bun.  The bag, which retails for less than $100, is featured in
the exhibition along with jewelry, clothing, and housewares from
her Urban Zen Haiti Artisan Project. All are produced in Haiti
and displayed with indigenous art to reflect the culture and
history of the country.  Since Haiti’s 2010 earthquake, Karan has traveled
extensively throughout the country looking for ways to help
local manufacturers and artists rebuild their lives.  The IDB’S Cultural Center was established in 1992 to foster
social development as well as understanding between Latin
American/Caribbean nations and other countries.  Adam Waldman, the founder, chairman and president of the
Endeavor Group, said he bought some Haitian beads for his mother
from the collection for about $80. He pointed them out to
Bradley Horwitz, the president and chief executive of Trilogy
International Partners.  Penn’s Pin  Penn, who wore a lapel pin with American and Haitian flags
intertwined, said that he made the trip to  Washington  from Haiti
Wednesday morning with Lamothe, who took office last month.
Lamothe said this was his first visit to the nation’s capital as
prime minister.  After guests took in the exhibition, they gathered in the
bank’s atrium for cocktails and baby quiche.  Haitian Ambassador Paul Altidor, who started in his post
two months ago, said the exhibition presents Haiti as an
“investment destination,” not a place of poverty and charity.  His wife, Meghan, who collects Haitian art, walked away
with some purchases, he added.  Discover Haiti will be in Washington through June 27, and
then heads to London.  Project Hope  Project Hope, which provides medical assistance to 35
countries, presented its first Global Health Partner Award to
 Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  CEO  John Lechleiter  on June 12.  During the next five years, Eli Lilly will invest $30
million in diabetes research and education in  Mexico , Brazil,
India and  South Africa , Lechleiter said yesterday in a telephone
interview. The company will work with Project Hope specifically
in India and South Africa, he added.  The event began with a reception at the Willard Hotel,
featuring coconut shrimp, followed by dinner and the awards
ceremony at the Mellon Auditorium.  At the Willard, Project Hope’s president and CEO, John Howe, chatted with Japanese Ambassador Ichiro Fujisaki and  BB&T
Corp.’s (BBT)  chairman and CEO, Kelly King.  Also present:  Quest (DGX)  Diagnostics Inc. CEO  Steve Rusckowski ;
Goldman Sachs & Co. Managing Director Marshall Smith; John Fowler, a Wells Fargo Securities. vice chairman; and Dayton Ogden, global leader of Spencer Stuart Inc.’s CEO
Succession advisory services.  Phebe Novakovic, the president and chief operating officer
of  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  who in January will ascend to the
position of chairman and chief executive, said she was having a
date night with her teenage daughter, Sophia Vickers.  The event raised $2 million for Project Hope  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 