-- Kennedy’s Pivotal Vote Focuses on Freedom as Court Ruling Looms
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/kennedy-s-pivotal-vote-focuses-on-freedom-as-court-ruling-looms.html
Anthony Kennedy  has cast pivotal
votes at the U.S. Supreme Court on terrorism, school
integration, clean water, the death penalty, gun rights,
abortion and campaign finance. Health care may be next.  By month’s end, the high court will determine the fate of
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law, designed to extend
coverage to at least 30 million uninsured Americans. The
decision may rest with Kennedy, the court’s swing vote since
Justice Sandra Day O’Connor retired in 2006.  “Justice Kennedy is the axis around which the court spins
in a case like this,” said  Tom Goldstein , an appellate lawyer
whose  Scotusblog  website, sponsored by Bloomberg Law, tracks the
court. “On this closely divided court, someone inevitably has
to be the center vote, and he is consistently it.”  The case marks the first time the high court has considered
tossing out a president’s defining legislative accomplishment in
the middle of his re-election campaign. Three days of arguments
in March suggested the nine-member court will divide along
ideological lines, with Kennedy and perhaps Chief Justice  John Roberts  casting the deciding votes.  For Kennedy, the answer may turn on whether he sees the law 
as too intrusive, particularly the requirement that Americans
either get insurance or pay a penalty. The 75-year-old justice
has long described individual freedom as his paramount
constitutional value -- whether the underlying issue is
abortion, gay sex, detainee rights or federal power.  The question now is whether Kennedy will perceive the
health-care law as such a threat to liberty that it warrants
being struck down -- putting new restrictions on Congress’ power
to deal with nationwide economic issues. With no direct
precedent controlling the outcome, he could go either way.  ‘Affirmative Act’  A group of 26 states and a small-business trade group say
the insurance requirement in the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act goes beyond Congress’ authority to regulate
interstate commerce.  During arguments, Kennedy focused on the prospect that the
government would be ordering people to take action, a power
beyond anything the high court has allowed.  He told U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, the Obama
administration’s lawyer, that the law “requires the individual
to do an affirmative act” by buying insurance.  “That changes the relationship of the federal government
to the individual in a very fundamental way,” Kennedy said.  At the same time, he made clear he understood the core of
the administration’s argument: that the requirement is crucial
to the law’s aim of using the private insurance market to help
achieve universal coverage. Without the mandate, the government
says, premiums would soar and people would lack an incentive to
get insurance before they became sick.  French Cuffs  “The young person who is uninsured is uniquely proximately
very close to affecting the rates of insurance and the costs of
providing medical care in a way that is not true in other
industries,” Kennedy said. “That’s my concern in the case.”  The Sacramento, California, native has been a justice of
contradictions and tensions. He is a centrist who speaks of
absolutes and deeply held moral principles. He’s reserved on the
bench, asking only a handful of questions in each case, even as
he dresses with a certain flair outside the court, sporting
French cuffs and pocket handkerchiefs.  A lover of literature, Kennedy is especially fond of  George Orwell ’s “1984,” a novel that fueled his passion for liberty.
The book, which portrays a totalitarian regime bent on pervasive
surveillance and control of its citizens’ minds, “is a powerful
reminder that governments want to plan your destiny,” he has
 said .  Third Choice  Kennedy has been a swing vote from the moment he took his
seat in 1988, succeeding Justice Lewis Powell, who himself had
played that role on the court until his retirement the previous
year.  Kennedy was Republican President  Ronald Reagan ’s third
choice for the Powell slot, chosen in part because he wasn’t
controversial. The Senate had just rejected the nomination of
 Robert Bork , and Reagan’s second selection, Douglas Ginsburg,
had withdrawn amid revelations he had smoked marijuana as a law
professor. The Senate voted 97-0 to confirm Kennedy.  Early on, Kennedy developed a reputation for being
indecisive. During the court’s 1991-92 term, he changed the
outcome in two high-profile cases by shifting his position in
the middle of the court’s deliberations, according to papers
released in 2004 from the files of the late Justice Harry Blackmun. Kennedy voted with the court’s liberal wing to block
clergy-led prayers at public school graduation and then to
reaffirm abortion rights.  ‘Flipper’ Parody  The shifts prompted the justices’ law clerks to poke fun at
Kennedy during their annual skit at the end of that term by
playing the theme song to “Flipper,” the 1960s television show
about a dolphin.  The characterization is unfair, said Bradford Berenson, a
 Washington  lawyer at Sidley Austin LLP who clerked for Kennedy
during the court’s 1992-93 term.  “In my experience, Justice Kennedy never had true
difficulty making up his own mind and knows his own mind quite
well,” Berenson said.  That’s not to say Kennedy always reaches decisions quickly.
As in health care, his questions often suggest he sees both
sides to the case -- and may still be struggling to settle on a
conclusion.  Kennedy likes to “try on the different parties’ position
for size” before the argument, Berenson said. “He’ll try to
sit with each side’s view for some period of time and see how it
feels.”  Mocked by Scalia  Nowhere is Kennedy more self-assured than when discussing
individual liberty, a topic that at times prompts him to write
with sweeping language.  “At the heart of liberty is the right to define one’s own
concept of existence, of meaning, of the universe, and of the
mystery of human life,” he wrote in the 1992 abortion case.  He used the same line when he wrote the court’s 2003
opinion that said consenting adults have a constitutional right
to engage in private homosexual acts. Justice  Antonin Scalia 
mocked the sentence in his dissent as Kennedy’s “famed sweet-
mystery-of-life passage.”  Liberty serves for Kennedy as the driving force behind the
constitutional limits on the federal government. He has written
that a clear line between federal and state authority is needed
so citizens know which to hold accountable for infringing upon
their freedoms.  Ideological Center  “To Justice Kennedy, federalism is a means to an end,
which is individual liberty,” said Nicholas Quinn Rosenkranz, a
former Kennedy law clerk who teaches constitutional law at
 Georgetown University Law Center  in Washington.  That view matters because Kennedy sits ideologically
between the court’s four other Republican-appointed justices --
Roberts, Scalia,  Samuel Alito  and  Clarence Thomas  -- and its
four Democratic appointees --  Ruth Bader Ginsburg ,  Stephen Breyer ,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan . In the current term,
Kennedy has been in the majority 95 percent of the time, more
than any other justice.  It’s a position that gives Kennedy leverage even beyond his
single vote. In their briefs, lawyers cite his opinions
liberally as they vie for what may be a crucial vote.  Colleagues trying to preserve 5-4 majorities must
accommodate his views or even let him write the opinion himself.
Kennedy wrote the majority opinion in the landmark 2010 case
that said corporations could spend unlimited sums to influence
federal elections.  Stable Record  His voting record shows Kennedy to be one of the most
consistent justices, said Lee Epstein, a law and political
science professor at the University of  Southern California  in
 Los Angeles .  “He hasn’t drifted much to the right or the left relative
to some other justices,” said Epstein, who analyzed voting
patterns on the court over the past half-century in a 2007
study.  What that voting record means for the health-care case is a
matter of guesswork.  “You have on one hand strong libertarian instincts that
might incline him toward striking down the individual mandate,”
Berenson said, “and on the other hand, strong protective
instincts toward the institutional legitimacy of the  Supreme
Court , which might incline him toward upholding it.  ‘‘How those competing instincts will resolve themselves
inside of Justice Kennedy is very difficult to predict.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  