-- Kerviel Witness Calls SocGen Account of 2008 Loss ‘Incoherent’
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-06-14T14:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/kerviel-witness-calls-socgen-account-of-2008-loss-incoherent-.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s account of how
it lost 4.9 billion euros ($6.2 billion) unwinding positions
taken by  Jerome Kerviel  was “completely incoherent” and led
Philippe Hoube, a back-office employee at Newedge brokerage, to
look into the affair to expose an “injustice,” he told a Paris
court today.  Hoube presented his review of the liquidation of Kerviel’s
account, showing differences in the amounts transferred between
Kerviel’s account and that of Maxime Kahn, who did the
unwinding, that could have shown the bank preserving Kerviel
gains for itself and dumping its losses into the Kerviel basket,
he said.  Kerviel, 35, is appealing his 2010 conviction for causing
the loss. Kerviel said Hoube came to him and his lawyers
recently with his account. Kerviel last week spoke to the court
of a possible plot to use him to siphon away the bank’s subprime
mortgage losses. Judge Mireille Filippini ordered them to
produce documents supporting the allegation and then for Hoube
to appear before the court to explain his theory.  When asked why  Societe Generale  would have done that, Hoube
said, “to save their jobs, perhaps.”  From Hoube’s post at Newedge Group, he said he didn’t know
the name Kerviel nor that Kahn was liquidating his account.  The anomalies noted by Hoube were due to him having an
incomplete picture of what was occurring, said Claire Dumas,
head of operational risk at the bank. “Your analysis doesn’t
take into account forwards,” used to transfer the results in a
simple manner given the time constraints in getting Kerviel’s
positions back within Societe Generale’s accepted risk levels.  ‘Residual Positions’  Hoube asked her at what point in the operation were all the
open positions closed. “In terms of risk, we considered that we
had unwound the positions by Jan. 23,” Dumas said. There
remained some “residual positions” that fell “within the
normal risk limits” and they were resolved over the next two
days, she said.  Kahn testified today before Hoube, and called his theory
“absurd.” He said he was “absolutely” sure he didn’t sell
any positions but those in Kerviel’s account, though he also
explained that he was told only that it was for a client who had
to remain confidential. He said that throughout the three days
from Jan. 21, 2008, “never for a moment” did he realize what
was really afoot.  The secrecy was necessary because had the markets known
Societe Generale was selling off 50 billion euros in positions,
the bank could have faced a liquidity crisis, he said.  Kerviel was sentenced to three years in prison and ordered
to repay the full amount to the bank. He has persisted in his
claims, maintained since 2008, that his superiors knew he was
exceeding limits on his trading desk and disguising the exposure
with fake hedges, fending off questions with fake documents and
made-up clients.  The appeal hearings are scheduled to conclude June 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net  