-- King Says Stimulus Case Grows With Stepped Up Crisis Plan
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l ,   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-15T08:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/king-says-stimulus-case-growing-as-boe-steps-up-crisis-response.html
Bank of  England  Governor  Mervyn King 
unveiled measures to fight an escalation of Europe’s debt crisis
as global policy makers prepare for the impact of Greek
elections in two days.  Warning of a “black cloud” from Europe, King said in a
speech in London late yesterday the case for more stimulus in
the U.K. “is growing.” In addition to looser policy, he said
the central bank will activate a sterling liquidity facility to
aid banks and start within weeks a credit-easing operation that
may boost lending in the economy by 80 billion pounds (£124
billion).  The measures, announced jointly with the Treasury,
highlight the alarm of global central bankers over the dangers
posed by the mounting euro-area debt crisis after  Spain  became
the fourth member of the region to seek a bailout last week.
Greece is due to hold elections on June 17 that may determine
its future in the currency zone, and leaders of the Group of 20
nations will hold a summit in  Mexico  the following day.  Investors want global leaders to take action on reviving
economic growth, Institute of International Finance Managing
Director  Charles Dallara  said in a letter yesterday to leaders
attending the G-20 summit. He said markets “will be looking
expectantly for evidence of a globally coordinated policy
response targeted to revive growth prospects.”  G-20 Action  Reuters reported that central banks are prepared to
coordinate actions if needed to boost liquidity in financial
markets, citing officials linked to the G-20 nations. The  S&P
500 Index (SPX)  rose 1.1 percent in  New York . The pound fell 0.4
percent against the dollar today and traded at $1.5503 at 9
a.m. in London. The yield on the 10-year gilt fell 7 basis
points to 1.66 percent.  Spokesmen and spokeswomen at the  European Central Bank ,
Bank of England, Bundesbank,  Swiss National Bank  and Bank of
France declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News on
the prospect of emergency coordinated action.  King said the Bank of England’s latest measures were
prompted by a rapidly deteriorating  U.K. outlook .  “Banks are at risk of future losses from a further
downturn in the economy and exposures to the euro area,” he
said. “Not only have the euro-area problems escalated to the
point where exit for  Greece  and other periphery countries is the
subject of widespread speculation, but signs of a slowing in
China,  India , and other previously buoyant emerging economies,
such as  Brazil , are appearing daily.”  ‘King’s Speech’  “It is clear from Governor King’s speech that he has
become more gravely concerned about the economic outlook, even
over just the past few weeks,” said  Simon Hayes , an economist
at Barclays Plc in London. “Not only has this prompted the new
announcements on banking-sector support, but it also implies a
much increased likelihood that the MPC will sanction more
quantitative easing.”  Speaking at the same event as King at the Mansion House in
London’s financial district, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , said the U.K. Treasury and the central bank will take
“coordinated action” to protect the economy.  “We are not powerless in the face of the euro-zone debt
storm,” Osborne said. “The government -- with the help of the
 Bank of England  -- will not stand on the sidelines and do
nothing as the storm gathers.”  No Limit  The Bank of England’s liquidity plan will see it activate
an unused facility to inject at least 5 billion pounds ($7.8
billion) a month into the financial system at a  minimum rate  of
25 basis points more than the benchmark  interest rate , now at a
record low of 0.5 percent. A separate “funding for lending”
program will allow lenders to swap assets with the central bank
in return for money to be loaned to companies and households.
The Treasury said a 5 percent increase in lending would inject
about 80 billion pounds into the economy.  Treasury minister  Mark Hoban  told BBC radio today there was
no cap on the lending program. The government wanted to send
businesses “a very clear signal that finance is available at a
price they can afford,” he said.  With the euro area turmoil pushing up bank funding costs
and making it harder to access credit, King said the lending
plan will provide banks with funds below current market rates.
This will be linked to their performance “in sustaining or
expanding their lending to the U.K. non-financial sector during
the present period of heightened uncertainty,” he said.  ‘Exceptional Circumstances’  “Exceptional circumstances create a case for a temporary
bank funding scheme to bridge to calmer times,” King said.  The governor also said that European authorities won’t find
a long-term solution to the debt crisis until clarity on the
extent of banks’ bad loans is reached. An “honest recognition
of those losses would require a major recapitalization of the
European banking system,” he said.  King repeated his rejection of calls for the U.K. central
bank to buy assets other than gilts as part of its  QE program .  There are “reasons for treating that idea with caution,”
he said. “The bank has no democratic mandate to put taxpayers’
money at risk” and “purchases by the public sector would
represent a real risk to taxpayers.”  The “big picture” for the U.K. is “the need to generate
a recovery while rebalancing our economy, supported by a loose
monetary policy and a large depreciation of sterling, on the one
hand, and a gradual but steady reduction in the structural
 budget deficit , on the other,” he said. “Let us all work
together to show that in a market economy our financial sector
can get us out of this mess.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  