-- Kodak, DuPont, HTC, Dow Jones: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-06-14T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/kodak-dupont-htc-dow-jones-intellectual-property.html
Eastman Kodak Co. failed to persuade
a judge to rule that  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  has no interest in a group of
patents that Kodak is putting up for sale as part of its
bankruptcy reorganization.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper in  Manhattan  said the
dispute could be resolved as part of a lawsuit in Kodak’s
Chapter 11 case.  “An adversary proceeding will permit the parties to raise
issues in an orderly and expeditious fashion and preserve all of
their just rights,” Gropper said at the hearing.  Kodak is planning to sell patent assets and said in court
papers that it needed the order to aid in the sale. Apple has
claimed ownership of the patents and is trying to “delay and
derail” the sale plans, Kodak said.  Andrew Dietderich, an attorney for Rochester, New York-
based Kodak, said after the hearing that the company would file
an adversary proceeding against Apple.  The bankruptcy case is In re  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , 12-10202,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District  New York  (Manhattan).  DuPont, BP Win Temporary Halt to Rival’s Sale of Isobutanol  A joint venture between  DuPont Co. (DD)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  won a court
order temporarily preventing a competing biofuel company from
trying to sell isobutanol produced at a plant that came online
last month.  U.S. District Court Judge Sue Robinson, in Wilmington,
 Delaware , issued an order June 12 limiting Gevo Inc. from
shipping the chemical, used in making biofuels, to new
customers. The company can continue selling isobutanol to Sasol
Chemical Industries Ltd. and the U.S. Air Force, Robinson said.  Gevo is involved in several patent lawsuits with Butamax
Advanced Biofuels LLC, which DuPont, a specialty chemical maker
based in Wilmington, and U.K.-based oil company BP, own.  “This order provides protection for markets of key
interest to Butamax,” Butamax Chief Executive Officer Paul
Beckwith said in a statement.  Gevo, based in Englewood,  Colorado , built a biofuels plant
in Luverne,  Minnesota , to produce renewable additives that can
be sold to oil refiners that make diesel and jet fuel. The
Minnesota plant can also produce ethanol, according to court
papers.  Robinson said the limits on Gevo will remain in place until
she issues a decision on a related request for a preliminary
injunction.  The order means Gevo can’t pursue new customers, Brett
Lund, Gevo’s general counsel, said in an interview yesterday.  “Our business model is to sell into jet-fuel and chemical
markets,” Lund said. The judge “is just saying ‘Don’t go
beyond your business model,’ and that’s fine,” he said.  The ruling on Butamax’s request for a preliminary
injunction could come in two to three weeks, Lund said.  Last year, Gevo asked the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office 
to review the validity of a Butamax patent for a fuel additive,
questioning who was first to invent the technology.  The case is Butamax (TM) Advanced Biofuels LLC v.  Gevo
Inc. (GEVO) , 12-cv-70 U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  HTC Ends Appeal of U.S. Patent Ruling Win by Apple on Phones  HTC Corp. (2498)  dropped its appeal of a U.S. International Trade
Commission patent case over mobile-phone technology that it lost
against Apple Corp., according to a notice posted on the court’s
website.  The trade agency in February said that Apple wasn’t
violating HTC’s patent rights over a way to control how mobile
phones manage power supply. HTC sought the dismissal of its
appeal May 31 and the request was granted yesterday, according
to the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington .  “We respect the ruling and have made the decision to focus
on other pending cases at this time,” HTC said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  The companies have other cases against each other pending
at the trade agency, and HTC is appealing a finding that it
infringed an Apple patent, according to court and trade agency
dockets. In the case won by Apple, some of HTC’s phones were
held up at the U.S. border last month to ensure the company had
removed a feature for data detection that was found to violate
Apple’s patent.  In a separate case Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC filed against
Apple, an ITC judge on June 8 threw out five of the patents,
leaving three remaining. HTC had obtained the five patents from
Google Inc., whose Android operating system is the most popular
platform for mobile devices.  “We believe the judge’s decision is erroneous as a matter
of law and will appeal the ruling to the Commission,” HTC said
yesterday. “We are confident in our ownership of the patents,
and that Apple infringes our  intellectual property . We look
forward to presenting our case on the remaining patents to the
judge at trial later this year.”  Cupertino, California-based Apple, which developed its own
operating system for the iPhone and iPad, is trying to curtail
the growth of Android. Apple has patent-infringement disputes at
the trade agency with Android-device makers Samsung Electronics
Co. and Motorola Mobility Holdings, now a unit of Google, as
well as HTC.  The HTC case against Apple is In the Matter of Portable
Electronic Devices, 337-721 and the newer HTC case is In the
Matter of Electronic Devices with Communication Capabilities,
337-721. Both cases are filed at the U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  Microsoft Plans to Patent Emotionally Charged Advertising  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest software company, is
seeking a patent on a method of targeting advertisements on the
basis of a computer user’s emotion.  Application  20120143693 , published in the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office June 7, is related to the use
of emotional tags in advertising. Users’ online activities are
obtained and the users are hit with advertisements based on the
emotional state related to that activity, according to the
application.  Microsoft said users’ online activity is processed to
“identify a tone of content.” The computer system also
receives indications of the users’ reactions to the content.  The computer system would then decide which ad with the
“highest monetization value” to deliver to the user, based on
that user’s presumed emotional state.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft filed the application
for this patent in December, 2012.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Cision Settles Copyright Infringement Case Brought by Dow Jones  Cision AB (CSN) , a Swedish media-services provider, settled a
copyright infringement case with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Dow Jones & Co.
unit.  The settlement for an undisclosed amount restricts Cision
from redistributing original content from New York-based Dow
Jones, Cision said June 12 in a statement. The settlement will
affect second-quarter earnings and Stockholm-based Cision now
forecasts a loss before interest and taxes of 10 million kronor
($1.4 million). Underlying earnings before interest and taxes,
excluding the payment and legal fees, is forecast to be 35
million kronor in the quarter, Cision said.  Cision on March 8 said it had received a “threat from a
major U.S. publisher” of a damages claim based on alleged
infringement of rights and that the effect on full-year earnings
could be significant. The company said 11 days later it would
cancel its dividend proposal to the annual general meeting as
well as a share buyback plan.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Weet-Bix Maker’s ‘Granola’ Trademark Claim Rejected by Court  Sanitarium Health & Wellbeing Co. , a food company owned by
the Seventh-day Adventist Church, has lost a trademark challenge
involving the word “granola,” Australia’s Brisbane Times
reported.  The Melbourne-based food company that’s known as the maker
of  Weet-Bix  cereals had claimed that while “granola” is a
generic term in the U.S., it had a “boutique” meaning in
Australia and distinguished its products from those of its
competitors, according to the Times.  Irrewarra Sourdough Bakery  of Geelong, Australia,
successful argued that the term was widely used as a purely
descriptive term in that country, the newspaper reported.  Justice Janet Jagot of Australia’s federal court noted that
the term has appeared in Australia’s dictionaries since 2004 and
said and has had enough time to “percolate into the
consciousness of Australians,” according to the Times.  Japanese University Gets Blue-Field License From Boise State  Boise State University  has licensed  its blue-surface
playing field  to a Japanese university.  The Idaho school has enforced its trademarks related to the
blue-colored surface in the past, suing a bail bond company that
was promoting itself through the use of blue-turf rally towels
and T-shirts with a blue-turf image.  The deal with Japan’s  Hosei University  marks the first time
the distinctive blue field and orange end zone trademark has
been licensed internationally, the school said in a  statement. 
Both schools use blue and orange as school colors. Boise State
said it has the only non-green football field among the National
College Athletic Association’s Division 1 schools.  Hosei’s  new field  was dedicated June 1. The school is a
football powerhouse in Japan, and has won that nation’s
collegiate championship several times.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 