-- NCAA Sends Championship Banner to Wrong North Dakota School
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-14T19:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/ncaa-sends-championship-banner-to-wrong-north-dakota-school.html
North Dakota State ’s championship
banner for winning a national football title made a side trip to
the University of  North Dakota  after a shipping error by the
 National Collegiate Athletic Association .  North Dakota  officials discovered yesterday that a package
that sat in the school’s athletic department offices in Grand
Forks for more than a week contained the banner belonging to
North Dakota State, which is located in Fargo about 80 miles to
the south.  The package was addressed to Brian Faison, the athletic
director at North Dakota, instead of Gene Taylor, his
counterpart at North Dakota State. Faison said it had gone
unnoticed, with his school focused on the controversy involving
its Fighting Sioux nickname. State residents voted to dump the
nickname this week and the NCAA has deemed to be “hostile and
abusive” American Indian imagery.  “Periodically, we’ll get things from the NCAA and it sat
unopened for about a week and a half because we’ve been busy
with the nickname and logo,” Faison said in a telephone
interview. “When we opened it up, we knew right away. I didn’t
think it was that big of a deal, just a little mix-up.”  Faison said the error probably wouldn’t have “seen the
light of day” if a beat writer hadn’t been in the athletic
department at the time. The  Grand Forks Herald  first reported
the shipping mistake involving the banner, which had been on
display in the NCAA’s  Hall of Champions  in Indianapolis.  Kelly Dodds, the director of exhibits at the Hall of
Champions, said she apologized to North Dakota State about
sending the banner to the school’s biggest rival.  “Suffice it to say that I have learned my lesson about the
dangers of reading address-book columns horizontally rather than
vertically!” Dodds said in an e-mail. “After 12 years of
sending nearly 90 banners a year, I was bound to make a mistake
at some point, and this truly was an honest mistake.”  North Dakota State won its first Football Championship
Subdivision title in January, capping a 14-1 season with a 17-6
victory over Sam Houston State. The FCS was formerly known as
Division I-AA, just below college football’s top level.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  