-- New Jersey Has Biggest Monthly Jobs Gain in Seven Years
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-06-14T16:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/new-jersey-had-biggest-jobs-gain-in-7-years-christie-says-1-.html
New Jersey  added 17,600 jobs in May,
its biggest employment gain in more than seven years, as
governments filled seasonal positions and a new casino opened.  The  unemployment rate  rose to  9.2 percent , one percentage
point above the U.S. level, as the state  labor force  expanded,
Governor  Chris Christie  told reporters in Trenton. New Jersey
accounted for one-fourth of all U.S. jobs added in May, he said.  Christie, a 49-year-old Republican who faces re-election in
2013, said the growth supports his “Jersey Comeback,” a
turnaround that he said will allow the state to raise spending
while reducing income taxes 10 percent over three years. Some
Democratic lawmakers have questioned whether the state can
afford a  tax cut  as revenue falls short of the projections in
Christie’s $32.1 billion budget proposal.  “What the folks down the hall, the Democrats, don’t
understand is that New Jersey is optimistic again,” Christie
said. “People who’ve not been looking for jobs for months, and
some of them years, are now entering the labor force to try and
find jobs. They believe the New Jersey Comeback is under way.
We’re back on track.”  Democrats control both houses of the Legislature. The
governor and lawmakers face a July 1 deadline to pass a balanced
spending plan.  Casinos, Summer Jobs  Summer hiring by local and state governments accounted for
the bulk of 4,700 public jobs created in New Jersey in May, or
more than a quarter of the new positions, according to Labor
Department  data .  Nongovernment employers added 12,900 jobs. More than three-
fourths of that gain came from the leisure and hospitality
industries, boosted in part by hiring at the $2.4 billion Revel
casino and hotel. The resort opened on April 2 after Christie
gave the developers a $261 million tax break to help restart
construction.  “The governor has had a laser focus on job creation since
his first day in office,” Senate Minority Leader Tom Kean, a
Westfield Republican, said in an interview at the Statehouse.  ‘Talking Points’  New Jersey’s unemployment rate has been 9 percent or higher
since June 2009. May marked the second-straight monthly
increase, from 9.1 percent in April and 9 percent in March.  The biggest decline in jobs last month occurred in
financial services, with 4,800 positions cut. Losses were also
reported in construction and manufacturing.  Overall, the state has added jobs in eight of the last nine
months, according to the Labor Department. May’s figures show
the need to cut taxes to continue the momentum of  job creation ,
Christie and Kean said.  “Certainly the creation of jobs is good news for New
Jersey, but the fact is that New Jersey lags behind the
nation,” Assembly Deputy Speaker John Wisniewski, a Sayreville
Democrat, said at the Statehouse. “This is all about getting
talking points.”  May’s employment growth was the largest since April 2005,
when New Jersey added about 18,000 jobs, Christie said. A third
of all jobs lost under former Governor  Jon Corzine , a one-term
Democrat, have been regained, according to Christie.  “The New Jersey Comeback is very much a reality as much as
the Democrats want to try and root against it for their own
purposes,” Christie said. “We cannot change course now.”  Senator  Paul Sarlo , a Democrat who heads his chamber’s
Budget Committee, said yesterday that legislative leaders have
agreed on a spending plan. He said his committee will vote on
the budget on June 21 and that he expects it to go before the
full Senate on June 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  