-- Federal Reserve Says AIG, Bear Stearns Rescue Loans Paid
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-06-14T20:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/new-york-fed-says-aig-bear-stearns-rescue-loans-fully-repaid.html
The  Federal Reserve  has been repaid
for its roles in the U.S. government bailout of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2008 and the rescue of Bear Stearns
Cos. earlier that year.  The central bank’s $53.1 billion of loans to vehicles
called  Maiden Lane  and Maiden Lane III, created to help save the
companies, were paid back with interest, the  Federal Reserve
Bank of New York   said  today in an e-mailed statement. A separate
entity,  Maiden Lane II , finished being unwound through sales of
mortgage assets earlier this year.  “This is a major milestone for the bank and for the
public,” New York Fed President William C. Dudley said in the
statement. “The Maiden Lane entities were established to
protect the  U.S. economy  at a time of great economic stress, and
I am pleased we were able to accomplish that policy objective
and be fully repaid.”  Taxpayers remain at risk in the wake of the September 2008
bailout of AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, which swelled
to $182.3 billion in value. The Treasury Department still owns
61 percent of the New York-based company and needs to sell the
 shares  at an average price of $28.72 apiece to break even. The
Fed may still generate profits as it disposes of remaining
assets in the vehicles.  The district bank this year has been selling mortgage debt
acquired in the AIG bailout after halting a series of 2011
auctions following a selloff in credit markets. AIG has said
it’s been among buyers. The Fed has continued to sell assets
from the Bears Stearns-tied Maiden Lane.  Fed’s Lessons  The repayment of the Fed’s loans may help inform future
central bank strategies, said Robert Eisenbeis, a former
research director at the Atlanta Fed and now chief monetary
economist at Sarasota, Florida-based Cumberland Advisors Inc.  “There’s been a lot of precedent set in terms of the
extent to which the Fed will feel free to use a lot of different
methods” to aid markets during crises, Eisenbeis said in a
telephone interview.  AIG advanced 2.4 percent to $31.03 in  New York  trading. It
has gained 34 percent this year.  The government’s cost basis for its shares in the insurer
was $47.5 billion, excluding unpaid dividends and fees of $1.6
billion.  The Treasury  recovered more than $17 billion in three
share sales, cutting its stake from 92 percent. That leaves an
investment of about $30 billion. AIG retired a Fed credit line
last year.  Strong Demand  AIG SunAmerica Chief Executive Officer Jay Wintrob said
yesterday that proceeds from asset auctions were sufficient to
repay the Fed for its loans to Maiden Lane III.  “We’re pleased that the Federal Reserve has decided to
cash in now and capitalize on the strong demand,” Wintrob said
at a conference held by Morgan Stanley in New York.  The Fed took unprecedented steps in 2008 in a bid to thwart
the deepest financial crisis since the Great Depression. Its
assumption of assets in AIG’s bailout followed a template used
in the rescue of Bears Stearns through that investment bank’s
emergency sale to  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co.  Maiden Lane was created with $30 billion of Bear Stearns
assets, including mortgage securities and loans, that JPMorgan
didn’t want to take on as it agreed to buy the 85-year-old
company for $2 a share in March 2008. Bear Stearns faced a
funding squeeze that had led the Fed to offer to lend $13
billion through JPMorgan earlier that month. Its sales price was
later raised to $10 a share, or about $2.3 billion.  Buying Assets  The Fed created Maiden Lane II to buy about $39 billion in
residential-mortgage securities owned by AIG, as well as Maiden
Lane III to purchase $62.1 billion in collateralized debt
obligations. The debt was purchased at about half its face
value, reflecting markdowns AIG had already taken, with the Fed
lending the facilities a total of $43.8 billion.  Maiden Lane III was used to cancel credit-default swaps
that AIG had sold to protect counterparties against losses. The
insurer needed to be rescued after it was unable to meet
collateral calls from banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and Societe Generale SA.  The facility bought the CDOs that AIG insured from the
companies, sparing the Wall Street firms from losses and
sparking criticism from lawmakers who called it a “backdoor
bailout” of banks. The move drew reviews by the Troubled Asset
Relief Program’s special inspector general and the Government
Accountability Office.  Fed’s Profit  Sales of $19.2 billion of Maiden Lane II assets to Credit
Suisse Group AG and Goldman Sachs in January and February helped
the Fed unwind that vehicle at a profit of $2.8 billion. The
bonds in Maiden Lane II packaged individual home loans, while
the CDOs in Maiden Lane III sliced mainly mortgage-backed
securities into new debt with varying risks.  The New York Fed is  scheduled  to auction tomorrow $5.2
billion of CDOs in Maiden Lane III created by TCW Group Inc.
under former chief investment officer  Jeffrey Gundlach ,
according to its website and data compiled by Bloomberg. TCW
managed almost twice as many CDOs that ended up in Maiden Lane
III as anyone else.  As the rest of the Maiden Lane III assets get sold, AIG
will receive the first $5 billion of proceeds following the
repayment of the Fed’s loan, about $600 million in accrued
interest, and then one-third of additional money, according the
New York Fed’s  website  and Wintrob.  “That will provide funding for the company to pursue
buybacks,” Josh Stirling, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., said by phone.  JPMorgan Loan  JPMorgan’s $1.2 billion subordinate loan to Maiden Lane
will be repaid first with the proceeds of sales of its remaining
assets, after which the Fed will receive the rest, according to
the website.  Dealers acquiring the CDOs in the central bank’s sales have
been reworking the debt before reselling it to investors.  Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Plc unwound $7.5 billion of
commercial-mortgage CDOs they bought in April to sell the
underlying holdings, while Bank of America Corp. split an $850
million class of a CDO tied to better-quality home loans it
acquired last month into two pieces, with a $510 million slice
receiving an investment-grade rating of BBB from DBRS Inc.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and a statement from the
grader.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 