-- NYC Loses Jobs With Overseas Rule Exemptions, Gensler Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-14T16:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/new-york-loses-jobs-with-overseas-rule-exemption-gensler-says.html
New York financial firms would move
jobs overseas if the U.S. grants the industry’s request to
exempt companies’ foreign branches from some Dodd-Frank Act
rules, said  Gary Gensler , chairman of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  “If we accept their approach -- that they say, ‘No, don’t
cover their London branches’ -- the jobs will go overseas, but
the risk will be back here,” Gensler said today in an interview
on Bloomberg Television.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are among
U.S. firms to argue that applying Dodd-Frank rules to their
overseas branches or subsidiaries would threaten their ability
to compete with foreign-based rivals. Imposing the law’s margin
requirements on non-U.S. swaps would “eviscerate our ability to
serve clients overseas and cede the global market,” JPMorgan
Associate General Counsel  Don Thompson  said at a House hearing
Feb. 8.  The CFTC is set to propose guidance on June 21 on how the
U.S. may govern the international reach of Dodd-Frank rules on
derivatives, people familiar with the plan have said.  The CFTC also is planning an order providing overseas-based
swap dealers and some affiliates of U.S. banks as much as a year
to comply with all of Dodd-Frank regulations, Gensler said in a
speech prepared for an  Institute of International Bankers ’
conference in  New York . The delay may affect compliance with
capital and some risk management regulations, Gensler said.  Overseas Compliance  Overseas swap dealers would still be required to register
with the CFTC and report trades to swap data repositories,
Gensler said. The CFTC is seeking to have a system for allowing
compliance with overseas regulations substitute for Dodd-Frank
rules.  Regulators are also seeking to complete rules this year for
exchange trading.  “We need to bring the same transparency to the swaps
market that has existed for decades in the securities and
futures market,” Gensler said in the interview today. “That
means that end users can see the bids and the offers, and it
broadens competition.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  