-- News Corp. Reporter, Officers Arrested in U.K. Bribery Probes
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-06-14T17:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/news-corp-reporter-officers-arrested-in-u-k-bribery-probes.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s bribery scandal in
Britain led to four more arrests, including a journalist and a
police superintendent, bringing to 35 the number of people
accused of trading illegal payments for tabloid stories.  London ’s  Metropolitan Police Service  detained a 31-year-old
reporter for News Corp.’s Sun newspaper, a 40-year-old former
prison officer and a 37-year-old woman suspected of conspiring
to corrupt a public official. The Independent Police Complaints
Commission also arrested a serving superintendent for the City
of London police on suspicion of misconduct in public office.  News Corp. is struggling to move on from the bribery probes
and related phone-hacking scandal, which ended its bid for
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  and has cost the company
about $258 million in lawsuit legal fees and settlements. The
first three arrests were announced less than an hour before U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  began testifying at a media-ethics
inquiry triggered by News Corp. wrongdoing.  Police have detained and released on bail more than 50
people since January 2011 in related probes of intercepting
voice mail messages, computer hacking and bribery at News Corp.
titles, including the now defunct News of the World tabloid.  The three people detained by the Met were arrested at
locations in Corby and Croydon,  England , today for questioning
and weren’t identified. A spokeswoman for News Corp.’s U.K.
unit, News International, said the 31-year-old was a journalist
at the Sun, the best-selling daily title in Britain.  The Met arrests were the result of information provided by
News Corp.’s Management Standards Committee, the internal group
investigating phone hacking and bribery at the company’s U.K.
newspapers, police said. The IPCC said it made the arrest after
receiving evidence from the Met.  Paul Durman, a spokesman for the MSC, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  Press officials for the  City of London  Police, which
encompasses Britain’s financial and business center, and the Met
declined to comment on the arrest.  The Met Police have arrested 33 people. The IPCC, which has
opened its own investigation into bribes being paid by
journalists to police, previously arrested a 52-year-old former
officer in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  