-- Nigeria Regulator Reaches Fines Deal With Phone Companies
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-06-14T13:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/nigeria-regulator-reaches-fines-deal-with-phone-companies.html
Nigeria ’s mobile-phone companies
reached an agreement to pay fines set last month by the national
telecommunications regulator for failing to meet minimum service
standards.  The payments will probably be made within the next week,
Tony Ojobo, a spokesman for the Abuja-based Nigerian
Communications Commission, said today by phone. He didn’t say if
the companies would pay all of the 1.17 billion naira ($7.2
million) total set on May 11 and the additional charges of 2.5
million naira a day after the May 21 deadline.  “The service providers have given their commitment that
services are going to improve because substantial investments
are going to be made,” said Ojobo.  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , the largest operator in Africa’s top oil
producer, and  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) , known as
Etisalat, were each fined 360 million naira, while  Bharti Airtel
Ltd. (BHARTI)  was given a 270 million naira penalty and Globacom Ltd. was
charged 180 million naira, the commission said May 11. MTN and
Etisalat cited lack of power and sabotage as reasons for poor
connections and dropped calls.  “We had a most constructive meeting with the NCC in Abuja
last night and reached agreement on the key issues,” Brett Goschen, chief executive officer of MTN Nigeria Communications
Ltd., said in an e-mailed reply to questions today. “We expect
to finalize the full agreement by the end of the week including
the issue of the payment of the fines.”  Investment Boost  While Emeka Oparah, a spokesman for Airtel’s Nigerian unit,
confirmed the companies and the NCC reached an agreement, he
said he couldn’t immediately provide details of the accord in a
phone interview today. Chineze Amanfo, a spokeswoman for
Etisalat’s Nigeria operation, said that all the company
executives met the regulator yesterday, though she couldn’t
confirm the deal.                         MTN is investing $1.4 billion in Nigeria this year to
improve infrastructure and capacity, according to Goschen.
Etisalat on May 12 said it will spend more than $500 million on
its network.  MTN runs two diesel generators at each of its network sites
that provide as much as 80 percent of its needs, Goschen said in
a May 17 interview. Power cuts occur daily as demand for
electricity is almost double the supply. Shutdowns by various
government and state agencies for levies and taxes, along with
an Islamist militant insurgency in the north of the country,
have also hindered repairs and building of new sites, he said.  Mobile-phone subscribers in Nigeria,  Africa ’s most populous
nation of more than 160 million people, reached more than 133
million by April, according to data compiled by the NCC. MTN has
42.8 million users, Globacom has 20.8 million, Airtel has 18.6
million and Etisalat accounts for 11.9 million.  A switchboard operator for Globacom didn’t have contact
details for a company spokesman and an e-mail sent to the
company’s corporate care address wasn’t immediately answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  