-- Noble Ex-Chief Leiman Seeks Bonus And Shares in Lawsuit
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-06-14T00:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/noble-ex-chief-leiman-seeks-bonus-and-shares-in-lawsuit.html
Ricardo Leiman, who quit  Noble Group
Ltd. (NOBL)  the day it posted its first quarterly loss in about 14
years, sued a unit of  Asia ’s biggest commodity supplier,
claiming his shares and 2011 bonus were wrongfully withheld.  Leiman said that as chief executive officer he’s entitled
to an annual discretionary bonus of 3 percent of Noble’s  net
income , according to the lawsuit filed with the Singapore High
Court. He also holds about 67.7 million restricted shares and
share options in a trust, the filing showed. The first closed
hearing is scheduled for tomorrow.  His 2011 bonus works out to $12.9 million based on the
full-year net income of $431 million in 2011 and the shares are
worth about S$77.9 million ($61.1 million) based on yesterday’s
closing price of S$1.15, according to Bloomberg’s calculations.  Noble was “unhappy” with Leiman’s performance and decided
to terminate him, Jeffrey Alam, group general counsel at the
Hong Kong-based company said in papers in response to the
lawsuit. Leiman, 46, resigned after several disagreements with
Chairman Richard Elman and “mutually agreed” to stop work on
Dec. 1, according to his complaint.  Noble spokesman  Stephen Brown  didn’t reply to an emailed
request for comment yesterday.  The lawsuit should be dismissed as it’s vexatious and
Leiman’s ability to exercise his shares and options was “on
condition that he had not acted in any way to the detriment of
Noble,” Noble’s Alam said in his filing.  Noble announced Leiman’s resignation on Nov. 9, the same
day it posted a $17.5 million  loss  in the third quarter. Leiman
left for “personal reasons” and would stay on as an adviser,
the Singapore-listed company said at that time.  Honoring Entitlements  Leiman would be paid $350,000 a year for advising the firm
for at least nine months, according to his lawsuit. Elman, who
founded Noble, became acting CEO following Leiman’s departure.  Elman had assured Leiman that “all his entitlements would
be honored” when he agreed to Elman’s request to extend his
notice period, according to the complaint. Leiman was entitled
to exercise 7.7 million  share  options, another 5.65 million in
incentive shares and be considered for a bonus, according to his
complaint.  On March 1, two days after Leiman was allowed to convert as
much as 5 million share options, Alam emailed him stating that a
committee had rejected the exercise because of “recent
information” received, according to the complaint. Leiman was
also informed by Alam in May that he would not be paid a bonus
for 2011, according to the lawsuit.  Approaching Clients  Noble alleged that since Leiman’s termination, he had
approached its clients, counter parties, advisers and employees
seeking their cooperation with the intention of competing with
the company and with a view to soliciting them, according to a
March 27 letter from the company cited in Leiman’s complaint.  “These approaches have been damaging to Noble’s
relationships with these people and with Mr. Leiman himself,”
according to the letter cited in the lawsuit.  Noble also accused Leiman of misusing the company’s
confidential information and that members of a management team
he hired to run its sugar and ethanol mills in  Brazil  were not
qualified and may have participated in fraudulent conduct at a
former employer.  Leiman “did not conduct himself in any manner to the
detriment of” Noble, he said in his lawsuit, denying the
allegations made by the company.  Noble which appointed Yusuf Alireza, the former Asia-
Pacific co-president of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., as CEO on
April 16, has seen its stock slump 41 percent in the past 12
months. That compares with an 8.9 percent decline on the
benchmark Straits Times Index.  The case is Ricardo Leiman v. Noble Resources Ltd.
S393/2012. Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  