-- Nokia’s Elop Taps Microsoft Colleague Weber to Run Sales
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-06-14T09:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/nokia-s-elop-taps-microsoft-colleague-weber-to-run-sales.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s North American chief,
 Chris Weber , was named head of sales in Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Elop’s biggest management overhaul, taking on the task
of winning buyers for the new flagship Lumia phone line.  Weber, who like Elop is a  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  veteran, will
take over responsibilities now held by Jerri DeVard and Niklas Savander, who are both stepping down, the Espoo, Finland-based
company said in a statement today. Timo Toikkanen will succeed
 Mary McDowell  as head of the mobile-phone division, which makes
low-end handsets mainly for emerging markets.  “They needed to change management,” said Helena Nordman- Knutson, an analyst at Pareto Securities in Stockholm. “It was
overdue.” The CEO “is not a  management consultant , and he
couldn’t make decisions on management in the first months
because the focus was on operating systems. Now he has had time
to evaluate the people.”  Elop, who became CEO in 2010, is betting on smartphones
using a version of Microsoft’s Windows technology to rebuild
market share after losing ground to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
devices operating on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android platform. The
turnaround hasn’t stopped losses yet and Nokia, which is trying
to conserve cash, outlined plans today to cut as many as 10,000
jobs and shutter sites in Finland, Germany and Canada.  American Growth  North America  under Weber was the sole region where Nokia
increased handset shipments sequentially in the first quarter,
helped by the release of the Lumia 710 through  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile division in January. Shipments in the quarter, in
advance of the release of the Lumia 900 phone, were still down
50 percent from a year earlier.  Weber “has made tremendous strides in kick-starting our
re-entry into the U.S., and his track record of driving results
will serve Nokia well,” Elop said in the statement.  In an interview a week ago, Weber, who was born in 1965,
said Nokia needs to show wireless operators why the Lumia stands
out against the competition if it wants to expand deals with
carriers and sell more devices.  Toikkanen, born in 1966, was previously head of business
development. He has worked for Nokia in the greater China area
and  Singapore . Weber, Toikkanen and Juha Putkiranta, who was
appointed executive vice president of operations, will join
Nokia’s executive board, now called the leadership team, as of
July 1, the company said.  Nokia has lost more than 70 billion euros ($88 billion) in
market value since Cupertino, California-based Apple introduced
the iPhone in 2007, taking the lead in smartphone innovation.
Nokia’s operating margin for mobile phones plunged to 3.7
percent of revenue last year from more than 20 percent before
the iPhone went on sale.  The Finnish company now predicts second-quarter operating
margins at the devices unit will be worse than a loss of 3
percent of revenue in the first quarter, Nokia said today. The
phonemaker had projected margins would be “similar to or
below” the first-quarter figure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  