-- Northstar Aerospace (USA) Files Bankruptcy in Delaware
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-06-27T14:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/northstar-aerospace-usa-files-bankruptcy-in-delaware.html
(Corrects location of company in second paragraph of story
published June 14.)  Northstar Aerospace (USA) Inc., a
maker of  aircraft  gear and transmission assemblies, filed for
 bankruptcy protection  to facilitate a sale.  The Bedford Park, Illinois-based company listed assets of
as much as $50,000 and debt of as much as $100 million in
Chapter 11 documents filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Wilmington,  Delaware . Affiliates including Northstar Aerospace
( Chicago ), D-Velco Manufacturing of  Arizona  and Derlan USA also
sought court protection.  Northstar Aerospace (Canada) Inc. and certain of its
Canadian subsidiaries applied today for an initial order from
the Ontario Superior Court of Justice (Commercial Division)
under the Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act, according to a
statement.  “The main purpose of the filings is to effectuate a going
concern sale of the business,” Northstar said in the statement.  Derlan Industries, formed in 1984, changed its name to
Northstar Aerospace in 2002. The company has worked with Rolls-
Royce, Sikorski, Bell Helicopter-Textron, Agusta, Boeing and
General Electric.  The company has an agreement with Wynnchurch Capital Ltd.
affiliates, Heligear Acquisition Co. and Heligear  Canada 
Acquisition Corp., to act as the stalking-horse, or lead bidder,
to buy substantially all its assets for about $70 million plus
certain assumed debt, according to court papers.  Existing Lenders  Northstar arranged a $22 million loan from their existing
lenders in addition to a $7 million junior loan from Boeing
Capital Loan Corp. to help fund operations while in bankruptcy,
according to court papers. The company said its business won’t
be interrupted and obligations to customers and workers will be
fulfilled.  The companies had consolidated assets with a book value of
about $165.1 million as of March 31 and consolidated debt of
about $147.1 million during the same time period, according to
court papers. About 60 percent of the assets and business are
with the U.S. debtors, according to court filings.  The case is In re Northstar Aerospace (USA) Inc., 12-11817,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 