-- NYSE-Nasdaq Feud Misses Congress as Greifeld Drops Hearing
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-06-14T18:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/nyse-nasdaq-feud-misses-congress-as-greifeld-drops-hearing-1-.html
The top executives of  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  won’t get to face off before
lawmakers next week over how brokers affected by  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
botched initial public offering should be compensated.  Nasdaq Chief Executive Officer Robert Greifeld declined an
invitation to testify June 20 at a House Financial Services
capital markets subcommittee hearing, according to two people
with knowledge of the plans. The decision means Greifeld won’t
have to spend several hours sitting at the same table as NYSE
Euronext CEO  Duncan Niederauer , who has led the fight against
Nasdaq’s compensation plan for customers affected by the glitch.  Representative  Scott Garrett , the New Jersey Republican who
is chairman of the subcommittee, called the hearing to discuss
market-structure issues. The  Facebook IPO , however, might have
dominated the hearing had Greifeld and Niederauer appeared
before the panel together.  Joseph Christinat, a Nasdaq spokesman, and Richard Adamonis, a spokesman for NYSE, declined to comment.  “Congressman Garrett will use this as an opportunity to
speak with market participants about how we can increase
competition, foster innovation and facilitate additional capital
for small companies,” Ben Veghte, a spokesman for Garrett, said
in an e-mail.  Executives from Direct Edge Holdings LLC,  Knight Capital
Group Inc. (KCG) ,  Invesco Ltd (IVZ)  and GETCO LLC have also received
invitations to testify, according to one of the people, who
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about the planning.  Computers Overwhelmed  Nasdaq’s computer systems used to establish the opening
price for Facebook were overwhelmed on May 18 by order
cancellations and updates for the IPO. After the exchange
repaired the problem, order updates for 30 million shares didn’t
participate in the auction because of an error, Nasdaq said in a
May 20 conference call with reporters.  The exchange operator is seeking approval from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to set aside $40 million for
brokers whose orders were mishandled. Nasdaq would pay qualified
brokers $13.7 million in cash with the rest credited through
lower trading fees for members who took losses.  NYSE, along with smaller exchange operators such as Bats
Global Markets Inc. and Direct Edge, have called the plan unfair
because it might boost  Nasdaq ’s market share at the expense of
competitors.  “This proposal just doesn’t cut the mustard,” Niederauer
told Bloomberg Television on June 8.  Nasdaq’s Greifeld told CNBC on June 6 that the discounted
trades won’t increase his exchanges’ market share.  “We are offering this to our customers that transact with
us every day,” he said. “They do not have to give us one
incremental share for them to earn this payment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  