-- O’Neill’s BRICs Risk Hitting Wall Threatening G-20 Growth
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-06-14T22:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/o-neill-s-brics-risk-hitting-wall-threatening-g-20-growth.html
Even  Jim O’Neill  is asking whether
the BRICs need reinforcing 11 years after he coined the term to
describe the world’s future powerhouse economies.  O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, says
his thesis that Brazil, Russia, India and China would together
increasingly buoy the global economy faces “a more challenging
test” as investors dump the countries’ stocks. China pared its
growth target to the lowest since 2004,  Standard & Poor’s  may
cut India’s investment-grade credit rating, Brazil is on pace to
expand less than 3 percent for a second straight year and
falling oil prices may hurt Russia.  A prolonged slowdown in the four countries poses a fresh
threat to a world economy suffering its weakest spell since the
end of the 2009 recession, which the BRICs helped shorten by
contributing about half of the international expansion since
2007. Leaders attending next week’s Group of 20 summit in Mexico
are already expressing concern, with Brazilian President  Dilma
Rousseff  warning June 4 that  emerging markets  can’t carry the
weight of the world on their shoulders.  Rich-nation policy makers “are so wrapped up in their own
problems they’re praying some of this weakness is just temporary
in the BRICs,” London-based O’Neill, 55, said in a telephone
interview. “If it’s not, then it’s pretty worrying.”  While O’Neill is standing by his call that  China  will
remain robust and the BRICs will together grow 7 percent this
year after 7.5 percent in 2011, economists at Morgan Stanley,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Citigroup Inc. are scaling
back their forecasts for emerging markets.  Surprise Index  In a sign of the economic threats surrounding the BRICs,
Citigroup’s surprise index, which measures how much data miss
predictions, is at minus 81.10 for the group, down from 15.8
three months ago and the weakest of all its gauges.  Investors have moved out of emerging market equity funds
for eight of the last 10 weeks and asset managers now have their
lowest exposure to such markets since October, a survey by BofA
Merrill Lynch found this week. The capital flight is driving
down stock prices, with the  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC) , which tracks the
group’s biggest equities, down 25 percent from a year ago. The
Indian rupee, Russian ruble and Brazilian real are the three-
worst performing currencies this quater among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  After China’s growth moderated in the past five quarters
and gross domestic product rose 8.1 percent in the first three
months of the year,  consumer prices  rose the least in two years
in May and manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in six
months. The government is targeting growth of 7.5 percent this
year.  Political Roadblocks  India’s 5.3 percent expansion in the first quarter was the
weakest in nine years and S&P warns the country may be
downgraded unless growth picks up and political roadblocks to
decision-making are overcome.  Brazil ’s 0.8 percent growth in the
first quarter from the same period a year ago also undershot
forecasts even after policy makers cut taxes and  interest rates 
to revive  consumer spending .  Although Russia’s economy unexpectedly accelerated in the
first quarter, expanding 4.9 percent from a year earlier, the
government projects growth of no more than 4 percent in the
coming years as output of oil, the nation’s biggest export,
stagnates. The price of oil is down about 18 percent this year.  While  Europe ’s crisis is sapping export demand -- Chinese
shipments to the region have fallen three in the first five
months of the year -- some of the brakes on growth are homespun.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. cited China’s efforts to cool inflation and
demand for property, as well as limited lending from Brazilian
banks. Its economists now expect emerging markets growth of 4.5
percent, down from a previous estimate of 5.2 percent.  Greek Elections  G-20 leaders start arriving in the resort of Los Cabos on
June 17, the same day as parliamentary elections in Greece. With
the threat of Greece exiting the euro currency union hanging
over the summit, BRIC leaders who for years have been seeking a
bigger say in how the global economy is run will come under
pressure to detail contributions to the  International Monetary
Fund . The Washington-based lender said in April that it is
boosting its financial firewall by $430 billion.  O’Neill, who coined the BRICs term in 2001 and was Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s chief economist until September 2009,
estimates that China last year generated the economic equivalent
of Greece every 11 1/2 weeks, while the group contributed about
$2.2 trillion, almost the equivalent of Italy’s GDP.  Weakness in China alone has the potential to reinforce woes
elsewhere. Brazilian soy,  iron ore  and other commodity exports
to the largest emerging economy are already on course for their
worst performance in a decade.  ‘Increasingly Wary’  Caterpillar Inc., (CAT)  the world’s largest maker of construction
and mining equipment, in April identified slowing demand and
revenues in China and Brazil.  WPP Plc (WPP)  Chief Executive Officer
Martin Sorrell said June 13 that the biggest international
advertising agency is “increasingly wary” of a slowdown in
traditionally high-growth economies.  Europe’s difficulties could also escalate if its countries
suffer falling demand from previously strong markets, according
to David Lubin, head of emerging market economics at Citigroup
in  London .  Greece, for example, saw an 82 percent increase in
shipments to China last year, according to a March  report  from
the Greek Embassy in Beijing. China is Germany’s fifth biggest
trading partner,  buying  64.8 billion euros of its goods last
year.  “A country that is potentially insolvent could be tipped
into actual insolvency if external demand is weak enough,” said
Lubin. “If creditworthiness is partly explained by how strong a
country’s export growth is likely to be, then weak Chinese data
plays negatively into the market’s confidence about Europe.”  Driving Growth  Alberto Ades, co-head of global economics research at BofA
Merrill Lynch, estimates that given their combined size, a one
percentage point drop in the GDP of emerging markets is the
equivalent of a 1.7 point fall in the U.S. He predicts
developing economies will expand 5.3 percent this year, down
from a 5.5 percent estimate at the start of the year.  “When you think about emerging markets driving growth,
what happens to them is pretty significant,” he said in a
telephone interview.  Policy makers are responding where they can. China last
week cut borrowing costs for the first time since 2008, while
Brazil’s central bank has signaled it will reduce its benchmark
rate for an eighth straight time in July after cutting it to a
record low 8.5 percent in May.  China may also introduce additional stimulus to protect its
growth target, and Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  on June
6 outlined initiatives including port projects worth $6.3
billion.  Sticky Inflation  Officials may have less room for action than five years ago
when the global financial turmoil began, according to Ades.
Inflation in emerging markets, fueled by the boom years, is
sticky and interest rates adjusted for prices are below their
pre-crisis levels in  Latin America  and low in  Asia , he said.  Government debt loads are also higher, with the combined
emerging-market fiscal deficit at 1.6 percent of GDP last year
compared with 0.2 percent in 2008, according to Ades. Debt
ratios could soar if emerging market currencies that are
overvalued by as much as 60 percent lose strength, said  Walter Molano , head of research for BCP Securities in Greenwich,
Connecticut.  “The marketing hype surrounding the BRICs has run its
course,” said Molano, who regularly travels to eastern Europe,
Asia and Latin America.  To be sure, emerging markets have pockets of strength with
record international reserves and bigger than ever domestic
 capital markets . The group will expand at an average pace of 5.5
percent this year, compared with 1.4 percent for developed
countries, according to  IMF  estimates in April. A Societe
Generale SA poll of emerging market investors released this week
found 47 percent bearish toward emerging markets in the near
term, an improvement from 79 percent in May.  Consumer Economy  O’Neill, who recently published a book entitled “The
Growth Map: Economic Opportunity in the BRICs and Beyond,” said
he is more concerned by Brazil’s weak growth and India’s policy
paralysis than he is by China, which he says remains on track to
become a more consumer-led economy.  He remains “relatively sanguine” that his world view is
intact a decade since he and colleagues at Goldman Sachs
predicted that the countries would join the U.S. and Japan as
the world’s biggest economies by 2050. The BRICs moved from 11
percent of global GDP in 1990 to about 25 percent in 2011 and
are on course to reach 40 percent by 2050, Goldman Sachs said in
a December report, which also said their potential growth rates
may have probably peaked.  “The idea countries always grow at a ridiculous rate was
never the case,” O’Neill said. “The fact they’ve been
disappointing for one or two quarters is neither here nor
there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  