-- Obama Awards Peres Medal of Freedom at White House Dinner
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   M a t t   B o k
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/obama-awards-peres-medal-of-freedom-at-white-house-dinner.html
Israeli President  Shimon Peres  was
awarded the U.S. Medal of Freedom by President  Barack Obama , who
praised his guest at a White House dinner for his
“extraordinary” service.  “In him we see the essence of Israel itself: an
indomitable spirit that will not be denied,” the president said
last night in honoring Peres, 88, who has served in the Israeli
government since 1952. Obama also said that the security of
Israel is “non-negotiable.”  The issue of convicted Israeli spy Jonathan Pollard, who
was arrested in Washington in 1985, is expected to come up
during closed-door sessions between Peres and Obama. Last week,
Peres said he would request Pollard’s release when he meets with
Obama, the Jerusalem Post reported on June 5.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  called on the
U.S. on April 8 to free Pollard, who was sentenced to life in
prison for passing classified information to Israel. Netanyahu
cited reports that Pollard’s health has deteriorated.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday the
U.S. probably wouldn’t change its position on Pollard, and there
was no mention of the matter at last night’s ceremony.  In accepting his award, Peres called for a Palestinian
state alongside Israel and praised young Arabs for seeking
freedom and for standing up “against oppression, poverty and
corruption.”  Critical Voters  Though just 2 percent of the  U.S. population  identify their
religion as Jewish, according to the Gallup poll, they were a
critical part of Obama’s 2008 base.  Obama won in 2008 with 78 percent support from Jewish
voters, according to national exit polls. Republicans don’t
expect to win over the community outright in 2012. They want to
win enough Jewish Democrats and independents to change the
outcome in some swing states.  Obama has been losing support among Jewish voters,
according to a Gallup survey. Obama has 64 percent support from
Jewish voters compared to 29 percent for Republican challenger
Romney. In an October and November 2008 survey, Obama had 74
percent support from Jewish voters, 10 percentage points more
than he has today. The survey polled 576 registered Jewish
voters between April 11 and June 5 and has a five-point error
margin.  Guests at last night’s event included former president  Bill Clinton , Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Nobel Peace
Prize laureate and Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel.  Award Winners  At a May 29 ceremony, Obama honored the other 12 people to
receive the Medal of Freedom, including music icon  Bob Dylan  and
former Secretary of State  Madeleine Albright . Obama said then
that Peres “has done more for the cause of peace in the  Middle
East  than just about anybody alive” and added last night that
Peres has been “strengthening the bonds between our nations for
some 65 years, the entire life of the state of Israel.”  Other medal recipients include author Toni Morrison; former
Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens; John Doar, a lawyer who
played key roles in the civil rights era and Watergate
investigation; epidemiologist William Foege; farmworker
organizer Dolores Huerta; and Pat Summitt, the former University
of Tennessee women’s basketball coach and Alzheimer’s patient
advocate.  The National Jewish Democratic Council congratulated Peres
for receiving the honor.  “As American Jews, we are proud and deeply gratified that
the president of the United States has chosen to recognize the
life’s work of one of Israel’s most important and central
leaders,” Marc Stanley, chairman of the council, and  David
Harris , its chief executive officer, said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Bok in Washington at 
 mbok3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  