-- Obama Heads to G-20 With Few Tools to Stem Euro Crisis
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-06-15T17:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/obama-heads-to-g-20-with-few-tools-to-stem-euro-crisis.html
When President  Barack Obama  meets
with leaders of the world’s largest economies next week, he’ll
confront one of the biggest threats to his re-election.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, which Obama has called the
“cloud” hanging over the U.S. economy, will be the central
topic for the Group of 20 nations summit next week in Los Cabos,
Mexico. Yet U.S. officials said they don’t expect the meeting to
result in significant progress toward a resolution.  The G-20 meets June 18-19, one day after Greek elections
that may determine that country’s future in the euro region and
as global markets look to Europe’s leaders for clearer signs of
how they move forward. A failure to stem the crisis would add to
economic uncertainty in the U.S. at a time when Obama and his
presumptive Republican rival,  Mitt Romney , are entering
intensifying their campaigning.  “Obama is running both against Europe as well as” Romney,
said Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, a research fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in Washington. “He’s in a
bind.”  The U.S. enters the G-20 summit from the position of an
outside adviser: administration officials can give encouragement
and provide suggestions on Europe’s crisis, yet even Obama has
said a resolution is up to the Europeans.  Position of Weakness  “When he walks into the room, President Obama will have
one objective: ring-fencing the European crisis, avoiding
spillovers to the U.S. economy that could prevent him from
getting re-elected,” said Domenico Lombardi, a senior fellow at
the  Brookings Institution  in Washington. “He will do that from
a position of weakness because he doesn’t have any direct card
to play.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  underscored the U.S.
position on the sidelines in European talks.  “This is something they can manage,” he said of euro zone
leaders in a June 13 address in Washington. “I think they made
the choice, that fateful choice, that they’re going to do
whatever it takes to make Europe work.”  Obama has publicly pressed Europe to take decisive action
to stimulate growth and conducted scores of phone calls with
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron .  ‘Herculean Task’  Merkel called finding a solution to the crisis a
“Herculean task.” In a speech to parliament yesterday in
Berlin, she said, “Germany’s power is not infinite” and
rebuffed leaders who are looking to the region’s biggest economy
to underwrite joint euro-area debt.  Europe ’s turmoil this week forced Spain to ask for a
bailout of its banks that may run as high as 100 billion euros
($126 billion), making it the fourth and largest euro-zone
economy to seek aid. The record yield on Spanish bonds has
fueled speculation the world’s 12th-biggest economy may need a
full rescue.  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King said yesterday that
more economic stimulus may be needed because of “signs of a
deterioration in the outlook, especially in world markets.”  The G-20 meeting will be focused on pressing Europe toward
a consensus for a meeting of euro zone leaders later this month,
said Mike Froman, Obama’s deputy national security adviser for
international economics. Germany, France and Italy, the three
biggest euro zone economies, and the U.K. will be the only
European countries represented at the summit.  Unfinished Work  European leaders “recognize that there’s still work to be
done,” Froman said today at a briefing. “Los Cabos will not be
the final word on the euro zone.”  Obama hasn’t scheduled any separate meetings with the
European government chiefs at the summit. He will have
individual talks with Russian President  Vladimir Putin  and
Chinese President  Hu Jintao .  As the crisis in the 17-nation currency union continues to
unfold, indicators signal the  U.S. economy  may be cooling. More
Americans than forecast applied for  unemployment  insurance
payments last week with claims for jobless benefits rising by
6,000 to 386,000 in the week ended June 9. The Commerce
Department reported yesterday that retail sales in the U.S. fell
in May for a second month. Employment growth has waned compared
with its pace earlier this year, and the  jobless rate  in May
rose for the first time in 11 months, to 8.2 percent.  Candidate Speeches  The prominence of the economy in the presidential election
was illustrated yesterday when Obama and Romney delivered
speeches minutes apart in the swing state of  Ohio  to outline
their different visions of how to accelerate growth.  Obama used Europe as a counter example for his policies.  “The economies of many European countries still aren’t
growing,” he said in  Cleveland . “But here in the  United
States , Americans showed their grit and showed their
determination. We acted fast.”  Romney, in Cincinnati, accused of Obama of adopting
European positions on  government spending  that will lead the
U.S. “to chronic high unemployment, like Europe has, low wage
growth, like Europe has, and potential fiscal calamity, like
we’re seeing at the doorstep of Europe today.”  Obama has limited options at home in pursuing his own
economic policies. His prescription of more stimulus to boost
U.S. growth --similar his suggestions for Europe -- has been
rejected by Republicans in Congress. Most of the $447 billion
package of tax incentives and spending that he proposed last
September has been stalled.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in  Washington  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  