-- Messina Consults Jobs to Spielberg in Crafting Obama's Campaign
-- B y   J o s h u a   G r e e n
-- 2012-06-14T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/obama-s-messina-taps-google-s-schmidt-for-wisdom-on-winning-race.html
The day after  Jim Messina  quit his
job as White House deputy chief of staff in January 2011, he
caught a plane to Los Angeles, paid a brief visit to his
girlfriend, and then commenced what may be the highest-wattage
crash course in executive management ever undertaken.  He was about to begin a new job as Barack Obama’s campaign
manager, and being a diligent student with access to some very
smart people, he arranged a rolling series of personal seminars
with the CEOs and senior executives of companies including  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ,  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,
 Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , and DreamWorks SKG, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its June 18 issue.  “I went around the country for literally a month of my
life interviewing these companies and just talking about
organizational growth, emerging technologies, marketing,” he
says at Obama’s campaign headquarters in Chicago.  In two long, private conversations, Steve Jobs tore into
Messina for all the White House was doing wrong and what it
ought to be doing differently, before going on to explain how
the campaign could exploit technology in ways that hadn’t been
possible before.  Segmented Voters  “Last time you were programming to only a couple of
channels,” Jobs told him, meaning the Web and e-mail. “This
time, you have to program content to a much wider variety of
channels -- Facebook, Tumblr, Twitter, YouTube, Google --because
people are segmented in a very different way than they were four
years ago.”  When Obama declared for president, the iPhone hadn’t been
released. Now, Jobs told him, mobile technology had to be
central to the campaign’s effort.  “He knew exactly where everything was going,” Messina
says. “He explained viral content and how our stuff could break
out, how it had to be interesting and clean.”  At DreamWorks Studios,  Steven Spielberg  spent three hours
explaining how to capture an audience’s attention and offered a
number of ideas that will be rolled out before Election Day.  An early example of Spielberg’s influence is
RomneyEconomics.com, a website designed by the Obama team to
tell the story -- a horror story by their reckoning -- of
presumptive Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney’s career
at Bain Capital LLC.  Spielberg Team  Afterward, Spielberg insisted that Messina sit down with
the DreamWorks marketing team. Hollywood movie studios are
expert, as presidential campaigns also must be, at spending huge
sums over a few weeks to reach and motivate millions of
Americans.  An awestruck tone surfaces when Messina talks about these
encounters and what they taught him. At 42, he is tall and
slightly stooped, with an innocent face, a flop of blond hair,
and a sheepdog friendliness made somewhat surreal by the arsenal
of profanity he deploys when not speaking for the record.  Messina, who’s from Denver, managed his first campaign as
an undergraduate at the University of  Montana  and in the 20
years since has never lost a race. Before joining Obama in 2008,
he alternated between running campaigns and working on Capitol
Hill.  He made his name as chief of staff to Senator Max Baucus of
Montana, becoming known as “Baucus’s muscle” for his skill as
a behind-the-scenes enforcer. In 2005 he ran the Democrats’
successful pushback against George W. Bush’s plan to privatize
Social Security.  Drugmaker Deal  “He had a talent for getting K Street to see that it was
to their advantage to get on board with whatever Baucus was
doing,” says Jim Manley, a former top aide to Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid. At the White House, Messina was instrumental
in cutting the deal with the pharmaceutical industry that helped
clear the way for the health-care overhaul law.  Messina is unusual in  Washington , at once a hard-bitten
political fixer known for handling unpleasant tasks -- “In the
White House he was given all the, pardon my French, the s--t
work,” says Baucus -- and also earnestly devoted to self-
improvement in a way few Washington operatives would want
revealed.  A sign on his old computer in Baucus’s office, hung with no
evident irony and left there by the staff as a token of
fondness, reads, “Be Better Today Than You Were Yesterday.”  Along with his conversations with chief executive officers,
Messina’s regimen for the new job included reading a hundred
years’ worth of campaign histories piled on a shelf above his
desk. Still, his obsession runs to the future, not the past, and
to business as much as politics.  New Model  Messina is convinced that modern presidential campaigns are
more like fast-growing technology companies than anything found
in a history book and his own job like that of the executives
who run them.  “What they’ve done is more readily applicable to me,
because they all started very small and got big very quickly,”
he says.  Messina came to this insight through a relationship with
someone keenly attuned to these changes and famous for having
groomed two other young men to run a very large enterprise:  Eric Schmidt , Google’s executive chairman. Messina considers him a
mentor.  “Jim and I met in the 2008 campaign and just hit it off on
a personal basis,” Schmidt says. “We became very good
friends.” Schmidt was an early sounding board and later
arranged many of the meetings with CEOs.  Fading Idealism  Obama can use the help. Re-election campaigns are
unglamorous. For many supporters, the thrill of electing him has
faded, and the idealism that once vitalized them has given way
to disillusionment.  In 2008, Obama’s campaign earned acclaim for using
technology to harness, in volunteers and dollars, the excitement
surrounding his candidacy. He routed the Republican nominee,
 Arizona  Senator John McCain, outspending him almost 3 to 1.  This race will be different. Romney and his allies may hold
the financial upper hand, not least because the  Supreme Court ’s
Citizens United decision in 2010 allowed for a flood of
corporate cash. The unspoken hope in  Chicago  is that superior
strategy and a shrewd use of technology can make up for Obama’s
diminished stature and more formidable opponent. So Messina has
spent 18 months studying and building.  Two Visions  The Nov. 6 election will be a contest between two different
visions of government and between competing ideas about how to
reach voters. Romney’s campaign will take a traditional
approach, heavy on television advertising and backed by a
massive war chest.  Obama’s will rely on organization, scaling up to a national
level the type of grassroots effort Messina once ran for Baucus
in Montana. His big bet is that Schmidt, Spielberg, and the rest
are right about how far technology has advanced -- that it’s
come far enough to mitigate Obama’s disadvantages and solve what
 David Plouffe , the White House adviser who ran the last
campaign, calls “our Electoral College Rubik’s Cube.”  In that sense, the campaign is about how best to run a
large, complex enterprise, while under tremendous pressure and
public scrutiny. Messina is wagering Obama’s second term on the
idea that the collected wisdom of technology’s biggest titans
can outsmart Romney, whose executive savvy has made him rich and
brought him to the cusp of the presidency.  Spinning Fantasy  Presidential campaigns are rarely what they seem. For all
that the candidates crisscross the country, offering sweeping
national visions and vowing to represent everyone, they really
focus on only a handful of states. A campaign manager’s job is
to spin the fantasy and not fall for it.  The last election was unusual in that Obama conducted a
national campaign, expanded the electorate, and won a broad
swath of voters. This election will mark a return to the mean,
as is already evident in Obama’s strategy, which aims to
persuade a sliver of the electorate, not expand it.  Messina is focused on seven states -- Florida, Ohio,
Virginia, Iowa, North Carolina, Colorado, Nevada -- that
probably hold the key to the election. Neither the nature of the
race nor the means of reaching voters will be quite the same.  Messina often tries to convey this to donors by telling the
story of how he came to be campaign manager. It’s December 2010.
He’s wading through chest-high surf in Hawaii with the
president. Obama summons him over.  ‘Got a Favor’  “I’ve got a favor I want to ask,” he says. “I’d like you
to run the re-elect.” Messina replies that he’s flattered, yet
he’ll only take the job on one condition: “You have to
understand, this will be nothing like the last campaign.”  “I thought the last one went pretty well.”  “It did. But everything is different now.”  The story is a windup to a sermon Messina likes to give
about the importance of technology in reaching voters -- a sort
of TED talk that echoes a point about which Schmidt, too, is
adamant. Last January, as Messina was beginning his new job,
Schmidt stepped back from Google and Larry Page took over as
CEO. Since then, Schmidt has become a kind of guru to Messina,
an executive coach and kindred spirit.  The two became acquainted during the last campaign, just
after  Hillary Clinton  dropped out of the race, when Messina,
then Plouffe’s right hand, was preoccupied with ramping up for
the general election.  3-Hour Talk  “I said to him, ‘You’ve done what I’m being asked to
do,”’ Messina says. “He said, ‘Yes, I have. Let me sit down
with you, and we’ll talk.’ For three hours we sat in a
conference room, and he just gave me advice about all the
mistakes he’d made, about purchasing supply chains, about HR,
about the blocking and tackling of growing fast and making sure
you have organizational objectives.”  “What I like about Jim,” Schmidt says, “is that he
starts the day thinking, ‘What are the analytical measurements
that I should make decisions on?’ Many people in politics have
no concept of what I just said. They’re intuitive thinkers, and
they’re often right. But the difference is that to run a large
operation in today’s world, the best way to do it is
analytically. And you have the tools now.”  Even with the last campaign’s success using the Internet,
Schmidt says the world hadn’t yet reached the point where
technology could transform how people run for president.  “In 2008 most people didn’t operate” on Facebook and
Twitter, he says. “The difference now is, first and foremost,
the growth of Facebook, which is much, much more deeply
penetrated into things. The other obvious ones are the growth of
YouTube and Twitter. The smart people were using them in 2008;
now everyone’s using them. You can imagine the implications of
that. You can run political campaigns on the sum of those
tools.”  Channel to Supporters  In his memoir of the 2008 election, Plouffe discusses
technology’s importance. The 13 million e-mail addresses Obama
collected were a potent way to raise money and a valuable means
of talking to supporters as well.  “We had essentially created our own television network,
only better,” he writes, “because we communicated directly
with no filter to what would amount to about 20 percent of the
total number of votes we would need to win -- a remarkably high
percentage.”  Both Schmidt and Messina share a fondness for the metrics
that highlight these changes: Facebook users have grown tenfold
since the last campaign, to more than 900 million. In 2008 most
users were in their teens or twenties; the fastest-growing
segment now is people over 50.  Twitter Followers  On Election Day, Obama sent two Twitter messages to his
116,000 followers; today, he has 16 million followers, and his
top advisers are all prolific Twitter messagers and minor
social-media celebrities.  Extrapolating a bit, it isn’t hard to imagine the campaign
having a direct line to 50 percent or 70 percent -- or maybe
more -- of the voters it will need to win.  To reach this expanding universe of potential supporters,
the Obama team spent nine months building a platform it calls
Dashboard, which allows field staffers and volunteers to access
and update the campaign’s voter database from an app on their
phones.  Canvassers can visit a neighborhood and see which houses
are targets and which are a waste of time. Everything is updated
in real time -- no need to lug around a clipboard or check in at
an office. And for voters, no more annoying knocks on the door
when they’ve just gotten a phone call or e-mail.  ‘Snowflake’ Organization  Dashboard is an important component of what the campaign
refers to as the “snowflake” model of organizing, the idea
that each paid staffer creates and oversees an expanding network
of volunteers -- a snowflake.  Last year, Obama’s fundraisers pushed big donors to
contribute the annual maximum of $35,800 right away. This would
cover the salary of one paid field staffer, who oversees five
unpaid “neighborhood team leaders,” each of whom brings in
five team members, who then recruit 20 volunteers apiece. Total:
500 people.  The campaign estimates each of the Obama snowflakes will
produce an extra 1,000 votes. The earlier they did this, the
more voters they would reach.  “My advice was to think about it in terms of quarters,”
says Schmidt. “You really have six quarters between” the
spring of 2011 “and the election. So essentially all of the key
personnel decisions are made in the first quarter. And then you
build from there.”  Measurable Politics  As Plouffe put it: “Politics always has room for feel and
instinct. But there is so much now that is measurable. We think
from a technology and data perspective that what Jim has built
will be the best that politics has ever seen.”  Silicon Valley’s influence is evident even in the layout of
the campaign’s headquarters. Designed with input from Facebook
executives, the floor plan has few private offices and lots of
big, collaborative open spaces where staffers work in pods.  This avoids a common Washington problem. The history of
American presidential campaigns is full of infighting, hatred,
and rivalries. Then Vice President Al Gore’s 2000 campaign and
then-Senator Hillary Clinton’s 2008 bid were riven with
factionalism among status-obsessed aides on different floors.
Obama’s staff is spread across a single floor -- to outward
appearances, happily.  At Schmidt’s suggestion, Messina bypassed the political
pros who usually handle campaign technology and opted to build
it in-house.  Innovators Needed  “Eric said to me, for a lot of these positions, you don’t
want political people,” Messina says. “You need innovators,
people who can get stuff done quickly.”  The campaign’s chief technology officer, Harper Reed, is a
friendly, bearded startup veteran with lots of tattoos, who’d
never worked in politics and was brought in from the online T-
shirt vendor Threadless.com.  “He looks like he’s the heavy-metal lead guitarist in
Metallica,” Messina says. “But he’s a genius. He threw out all
the old conventional wisdom and said, ‘Show me what you want on
a white board. I’ll build it for you.’ ”  Under Reed, the Obama team has built systems for
registering voters, organizing volunteers, and generally
vacuuming up and analyzing every available bit of personal data
-- voting patterns, political contributions, and consumer
preferences as well as what people read and share, and how they
respond to e-mails, ads, Twitter messages, and other
solicitations.  Fashion as Revenue  At the suggestion of another of Messina’s advisers, Obama-
themed merchandise has become a lucrative revenue source. Early
on, Messina met, and was dazzled by, Anna Wintour, the editor of
Vogue and inspiration for “The Devil Wears Prada,” who created
a spreadsheet to convince him that fashion could generate
serious money for the campaign.  “What is the one thing everyone has from ’08? A T-shirt,”
Messina says.  Wintour drew conservatives’ scorn for appearing in an
online video soliciting donors for a fundraising dinner for the
first couple with Sarah Jessica Parker.  Her influence actually runs much deeper. Last fall the
campaign held a runway show in Manhattan to unveil a luxury
clothing line by celebrity designers, including Vera Wang and
Diane von Furstenberg.  Messina, whose own fashion sense borders on the tragic, was
introduced on the runway by Scarlett Johansson. Republicans
gleefully mock Obama’s designer collection as an exercise in
narcissism, while the Romney campaign also sells merchandise,
mostly the standard T-shirts, hats, and buttons.  Money, Voters  Messina sees only the influx of millions of dollars --
although he won’t say how many millions. Sure, the $95 Thakoon
Panichgul scarf and $75 Tory Burch tote bag are outlandish, yet
they net a lot more than $10 Hanes T-shirts.  “Raise money, register voters, and persuade voters,”
Messina says. “Everything has to feed into those three
things.”  From the outside, it isn’t clear that will be enough. On
June 7, the Romney campaign said it raised $76 million in May,
topping Obama’s $60 million and marking the first time in five
years that Obama had been outraised. Even with Spielberg’s input
on the Bain ad, elite opinion was that it mostly flopped, after
campaign surrogates, including  Bill Clinton  and Cory Booker,
veered off message and commended Romney’s business record, to
the delight of Republicans and cable news producers.  Bain Attack  Messina is adamant that the Bain attack succeeded among the
uncommitted voters he’s concerned with, who ignore pundits and
are only now beginning to form opinions of Romney.  “When people say ‘How’s the Bain thing playing?’ it
doesn’t matter what the set of Morning Joe has to say about
it,” Plouffe says. “But if you’re a 45-year-old swing voter in
Toledo, Ohio, what are you seeing? What’s in your local
newspaper? What ads are running? And what’s going on in the
local field operation? That’s what really matters.”  These voters will probably decide the election. All the
technology, money, and management theory really amount to an
elaborate, determined effort to discredit Romney and win their
support. By virtue of his background, Messina may be especially
well suited to that job.  Messina will go a long way to win, as the two leading
stories from his Montana career suggest. Both involve the 2002
Senate race he ran for Baucus, a Democrat seeking re-election in
a terrible year for Democrats.  Fringe Candidate  To protect Baucus, Messina had him refuse to participate in
any debate that didn’t also include a fringe third-party
candidate who’d inadvertently dyed his skin blue with homemade
antibiotics -- a guaranteed distraction.  The other story involved his Republican challenger, a state
senator named Mike Taylor, who was the target of an ad so
devastating it got national attention.  The ad charged Taylor with having embezzled student loans
from a cosmetology school he’d owned in the 1980s. The ad’s
force lay in the music and imagery. Set to a porn soundtrack, it
featured snippets of an old television ad for Taylor’s hair
salon that showed the candidate clad in a medallioned, open-
shirted disco outfit, massaging lotion into another man’s face,
and then appearing to reach toward the man’s crotch, as a
narrator intoned, “Not the way we do business in Montana.”  “Jim is tough,” Baucus says. “I’ll never forget when he
showed me that ad. We were in Bozeman in a motel. The curtains
were drawn. He said, ‘Max, what do you think?’ They were afraid
I wasn’t going to like it. I loved it!”  ‘No Honor’  Humiliated, Taylor quit the race, and Baucus sailed to
victory. “I found out quickly from Messina that there was no
honor in politics,” Taylor says in an e-mail.  Starting out in Montana provided a broad education in all
aspects of a campaign. A rural state with fewer than 1 million
residents, Montana is so cheap even a legislative candidate on a
$20,000 budget can run a sophisticated campaign with radio and
television ads, direct mail, and phone banks.  Districts are small enough that candidates can, and are
expected to, knock on every door. Messina became known as a
“field guy” for his dogged emphasis on voter contact.  “It taught me very early on,” he says, “that you can win
if you run good enough grassroots and you’re very clear about
the differences with your opponent.”  Because Montana typically votes Republican for president,
it’s often regarded as a red state. Still, it’s almost evenly
divided between the parties.  Competitive Politics  “Politics here is competitive,” says Dave Hunter, a local
consultant and early mentor to Messina. “Democrats usually
perform at around 47 or 48 percent, so candidates have to run a
little better campaign than Republicans to win statewide.”  The state also lacks a significant minority presence.  “We really don’t have African-Americans or a Hispanic
population,” Hunter says. “You win in Montana by convincing
white, independent voters to turn out for you. It’s good
experience for presidential politics because it’s not about
turning out your base; it’s about persuasion.”  Ten years later, Messina is trying to do the same thing,
only at a much higher level. Montana is out of reach. Yet the
seven states he’s targeted, as well as a few more he hopes won’t
end up in play, all lie within striking distance of either
candidate.  If the European crisis explodes or an attack on Iran drives
up  oil prices , the  U.S. economy  may tank and render moot all of
Messina’s careful planning. Or the recovery could pick up steam,
or the old gaffe-prone Romney could return and hand Obama an
unexpectedly easy win.  A likelier scenario, though, is that the race will be
close. Messina may see that happening.  “Jim has said to me, ‘This is the most important thing I
will do in my lifetime,”’ says  Penny Pritzker , the national
finance chairwoman of the last campaign.  Should it come to that, Messina will have a chance to do
what every campaign manager dreams of doing, what most
Washington operatives brag about doing, and what only an elect
few have ever actually done -- make the difference in a
presidential election. Then, the CEOs will come to him for
advice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Green in Washington at 
 jgreen120@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  