-- Obama Taps Entertainers to Stay Ahead of Romney’s Money
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-06-14T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/obama-taps-entertainers-to-stay-ahead-of-romney-s-money.html
President  Barack Obama  is using the
entertainment industry on both coasts to help fill the
fundraising hole left by defections of some Wall Street donors.  Obama has been hitting  California  and  New York  in the race
to stay ahead of Republican Mitt Romney in fundraising for the
presidential campaign. He’ll be in New York tonight for the
second time this month for an event at actress Sarah Jessica Parker’s house and another co-hosted by singer  Mariah Carey  at
the Plaza Hotel, aiming to raise $4.5 million.  “If you go to New York to raise money at Sarah Jessica
Parker’s house you’re really going to Los Angeles,” said Joel
Aberbach, a political science professor at the  University of
California , Los Angeles. “He’s getting a better reception from
show business people than finance people, and those are the
moneyed classes on the two coasts.”  California, the headquarters for the music, movie and
television industries, is outpacing New York as a funding source
for both candidates. Through the end of April, California donors
have raised $19 million for Obama and $10.6 for Romney compared
to New York’s $12.2 million for Obama and $9.7 million for
Romney, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Obama is devoting most of his day to campaigning, including
a speech in  Ohio  intended to sharpen his attacks on Romney and
set out differences on economic policy.  Different Visions  “The president believes that this election is a
fundamental choice between two very different visions for how we
grow the economy, create middle-class jobs and pay down our
debt,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday.  Romney, 65, sought to pre-empt Obama with an address to the
 Business Roundtable  yesterday in Washington.  “My own view is that he will speak eloquently, but that
words are cheap, and that the record of an individual is the
basis upon which you determine whether they should continue to
hold on to their job,” Romney told about 100 executives at
organization’s quarterly meeting.  He argued that Obama’s agenda has been hostile to business
and that has led to “a tepid and unfortunate recovery”  In remarks to supporters, Obama has accused Romney and
Republicans in Congress of pursuing the same policies that led
to the worst recession in more than seven decades.  Economic Reports  Obama, 50, has faced a steady stream of bad economic news
over the past two weeks, the latest being a Commerce Department
report yesterday that showed  retail sales  in the U.S. fell in
May for a second month. Along with slower job growth in May and
subdued wage gains, the report was another sign that the
recovery is cooling.  About 50 people are paying $40,000 each for the reception
at Parker’s home, co-hosted by Vogue magazine editor-in-chief
 Anna Wintour . Another 250 people will pay $10,000 each to attend
the dinner at the Plaza hotel hosted by Carey and Newark, New
Jersey, Mayor  Cory Booker . Booker riled the Obama campaign with
remarks on NBC’s “Meet the Press” last month criticizing the
president’s attacks on Romney’s private-equity experience.  Wintour is a top bundler for Obama, having raised at least
$500,000 for his re-election campaign, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group that
tracks campaign finance reports.  Through April, Parker hasn’t donated to the Obama campaign,
the  Democratic National Committee  or Priorities USA Action, the
pro-Obama super political action committee that has trailed the
Republican groups in fundraising. She gave $2,660 to Obama’s
election effort in 2008. Carey gave the maximum $35,800 to
Obama’s campaign and the DNC this election cycle.  Entertainment Industry  Donors in the TV, music and movie industry have given
Obama’s re-election campaign $2.3 million compared to $392,736
for Romney, according to the center.  That may not make up the shortfall from  Wall Street . The
securities and investment industry gave Romney $8.8 million and
Obama $3.2 million through the end of April, according to the
 center ’s study of Federal Election Commission data.  In 2008, when he was running against  Arizona  Senator  John McCain , Obama received $15 million from employees in the
securities and investment industry, more than any other
candidate. In office, Obama has pushed for tighter regulation of
Wall Street. Romney’s experience as co-founding the private
equity firm Bain Capital LLC has given him greater support from
the industry.  Industry Donations  “It might well be that Obama made the financial industry
unhappy by talking about them, but at the end of the day they’re
still going to be giving him a lot of money,” said Jonathan
Nagler, a political science professor at  New York University .
“What is different this year is that Romney is better known to
them than McCain was -- he’s one of them.”  Since he filed for re-election in April 2011, Obama has
visited California seven times, most stops including fundraisers
in  Los Angeles  or  San Francisco . During the same period he’s
visited New York 12 times, almost all including fundraising
stops in  New York City .  The East and West Coasts are “where the money is, that’s
the Democratic landscape of America,” said Don Baer, who was
the director of communications and chief speechwriter for former
President  Bill Clinton .  While the pace of Romney’s fundraising has increased since
he secured the Republican nomination, Obama’s re-election
committee more than doubled the amount raised by Romney’s
campaign through April, taking in $222.3 million to $100.4
million, and had $115.2 million in the bank entering May,
compared with $9.2 million for the challenger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  