-- Obama Duels With Romney Over Economic Ideology in Ohio
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-06-15T04:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/obama-duels-romney-with-competing-speeches-on-u-s-economic-path.html
President  Barack Obama  cast
November’s election as a chance to break the “stalemate”
between two different economic ideologies, as he and Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney  delivered speeches in Ohio that framed
the choice voters will face.  The candidates’ appearances yesterday in the pivotal swing
state were a rare moment of near-direct conflict in a race that
has largely revolved around a barrage of campaign advertising
and closed-door fundraisers with donors.  “This election is about our economic future,” the
president told supporters at a  community college  in  Cleveland .
“This isn’t some abstract debate. This is not another trivial
Washington argument.”  About 250 miles (402 kilometers) away, at a Cincinnati
manufacturing company warehouse, Romney took the microphone just
minutes before Obama began speaking and assailed the president’s
policies, blaming his administration for the struggling economy.  “As you look at the president’s record it is long on words
and short on action that creates jobs,” he said. “Talk is
cheap, action speaks loudly. Look what’s happened across this
country.”  With most national polls showing Obama and Romney in a dead
heat, campaign strategists said they recognize the race will be
won by the candidate who offers the most compelling vision for
leading the world’s biggest economy back to more robust growth.  Standard Remarks  “It’s not about tactics or campaigns; it’s about the
reality that people are living,” said Romney chief strategist
Stuart Stevens.  Though billed by aides as a major address, Romney largely
stuck to his standard stump speech, speaking to the crowd of
about 200 with his shirt-sleeves rolled up and without a
teleprompter or a suit jacket.  In a speech that was almost twice as long, Obama offered a
crowd of 1,500 cheering supporters an expansive explanation for
how his economic vision differed from that of Romney. Neither
man offered any new ideas.  The back-and-forth came in the midst of a month of
political and economic developments that put the Obama
administration on the defensive and dealt a blow to the
president’s re-election.  White House aides have spent much of the past two weeks
attempting to blunt the political damage of a June 1 report
showing the U.S.  unemployment rate  increased in May, and the
failure of Democrats and unions in a recall vote against
Republican Governor  Scott Walker  in Wisconsin, a state Obama’s
campaign is counting on in the November election.  Mixed Picture  Indicators give a mixed picture of the country’s economic
health. Claims for  unemployment benefits  unexpectedly climbed to
386,000 in the week ended June 9 from 380,000 the previous week,
the Labor Department reported yesterday in Washington. A
Commerce Department report June 13 showed retail sales in the
U.S. fell in May for a second month. Along with slower job
growth in May and subdued wage gains, the figures were a sign
that the recovery is cooling.  Still, the Standard & Poor’s 100 Index of the biggest U.S.
companies has risen 6.7 percent in 2012, beating a version of
the  S&P 500  that strips out weightings for market value by the
most since 1999. Earnings for the 100-company measure are
projected to reach a record high this year, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  has risen 5.7 percent so far this year.  Fundamental Choice  During his speech in Cleveland, Obama cast the election as
a choice between two “fundamentally different” economic views,
rattling off a long list of spending cuts that would affect
Americans if Romney and his party succeed in implementing their
ideas.  At one point, he addressed his comments directly to
undecided voters watching on television, telling them that
Romney advocates the policies of the past that he said brought
prosperity to the nation’s wealthiest at the expense of middle-
income Americans.  “If you want to give the policies of the last decade
another try, then you should vote for Mr. Romney,” Obama said.  In two  New York  City fundraisers last night to collect $4.5
million, Obama returned to some of the same themes. Addressing
about 50 donors at the home of actress Sarah Jessica Parker, he
said the Republican attacks on him are “elegant” and “crisp”
-- and wrong.  As he has done in campaign appearances across the country,
Romney promised to cut  government spending , expand domestic
energy exploration, impose new trade tariffs on  China  and grant
states waivers to opt out of the federal health-care law.  Romney Attacks  Standing in front of a banner reading “Putting jobs
first,” Romney attacked the White House for crafting the
federal health-care law, passing the economic stimulus bill,
imposing new regulations on the financial sector and deciding
not to approve the Keystone XL oil pipeline from  Canada .  He ended his speech on an upbeat note, promising voters
that his policies would spark a “resurgence” for the
struggling economy.  The backdrop of both speeches was  Ohio , a critical
battleground considered one of a handful of states that could
decide the election. Over the past month, the campaigns and the
political groups that back them have run more ads in Ohio than
any other state.  Ads by Obama, Romney and groups backing them ran 17,359
times on network stations, reaching Ohio voters in the 30-day
period between May 13 and June 11, according to New York-based
Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising. Obama’s campaign
made up about 51 percent of the total.  Winning Ohio  Still, the state is somewhat of an economic outlier. Obama
won Ohio in 2008 with 51.4 percent of the vote. Today, the state
is recovering faster than most of the country. It ranks seventh
in improving economic health in the Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States from the fourth quarter of 2010 through the
fourth quarter of last year, the most recent data available.  The  unemployment rate  in Ohio was 7.4 percent in April,
lower than the national rate of 8.1 percent in that month and
down from a high of 10.6 percent from July 2009 through January
2010. Ohio has added 47,200 jobs during the past 12 months
through April, including 16,600 manufacturing positions, though
it still is down 115,000 total jobs since Obama took office,
according to U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data.  After the speeches, both men headed to fundraisers to build
up their campaign war chests.  Romney flew to Chicago for an event at the upscale Public
Chicago hotel, where he raised between $3.3 million and $3.5
million, said Ron Gidwitz, one of the event’s organizers.  In New York, Obama attended the reception at the home of
Parker and  Matthew Broderick , co-hosted by Vogue editor-in-chief
 Anna Wintour . The president later appeared at a dinner at the
Plaza Hotel hosted by singer  Mariah Carey  and Mayor  Cory Booker 
of  Newark ,  New Jersey . The fundraisers were the latest in a
series of celebrity-studded events aimed at combating the flood
of outside money helping Republicans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  