-- Oil Trades Near Eight-Month Low Before OPEC Meeting
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-06-14T12:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/oil-trades-near-eight-month-low-before-opec-meeting.html
Oil traded near its lowest closing
price in eight months in  New York  before the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries meets to discuss potential changes
to its production ceiling.  Futures fluctuated, rising as much as 0.6 percent after
earlier falling for the fifth time in six days. OPEC, which
convenes in Vienna today, will probably maintain its output
ceiling as concern that global growth is shrinking outweighs
calls for supply cuts to stem sliding crude prices, three of the
group’s ministers said. Oil advanced after approaching a
technical support level, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “The market is in a distinctive wait-and-see mode,” Ole Hansen, senior manager of trading advisory at Saxo Bank A/S in
Copenhagen, said by phone. After the results of the OPEC meeting
the “immediate focus will switch to Greece elections this
weekend because that’s really where demand side questions will
be answered,” he said.  Oil for July delivery was at $82.76 a barrel, up 14 cents,
in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
1:40 p.m. London time. It earlier fell 0.4 percent to $82.27.
The contract slid 0.8 percent yesterday to $82.62, the lowest
close since Oct. 6. Prices are down 16 percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement, which expires today, dropped
39 cents to $96.74 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. The more-actively traded August future fell 40
cents to $96.32. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate narrowed to $13.98 from
$14.51 yesterday.  OPEC Output  Oil in New York has technical support along its 200-week
moving average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures
last week halted their decline near the indicator, which is at
$80.80 a barrel this week. Buy orders tend to be clustered near
chart-support levels.  Greece  will hold elections on June 17, after inconclusive
parliamentary elections on May 6, that will decide whether the
country stays in the euro. The  European debt crisis  deepened as
the credit ratings of Spain and Cyprus were downgraded by
Moody’s Investors Service.  The break-even price of Brent for oil-producing nations in
the Gulf Cooperation Council will fall to about $80 a barrel
this year, the first drop since 2003, Deutsche Bank AG said in a
report today.  Brent may average $115 a barrel this year, Mirae Asset
Management Co. said in a report today. The rebound is linked to
Middle East geopolitical risk, it said.  Bad Economic Situation  Ministers from Ecuador, Kuwait and  Nigeria  said yesterday
that OPEC is set to keep its 30 million barrel-a-day limit.
While an increase of as much as 1 million barrels a day
suggested by some Gulf Arab countries would help Europe weather
its slowdown, the 12-member group will probably settle on the
status quo, according to two Middle Eastern delegates who
declined to be identified because a decision hasn’t been made.  Venezuela  will ask OPEC members to cut output,  Rafael
Ramirez , the country’s energy minister, said today in Vienna.
“There is overproduction, and the economic situation is bad in
the  euro zone ,” he said in an interview. “The market has a lot
of oil.”  Countries including Venezuela and  Iran , OPEC’s second-
biggest producer, have argued that crude supplies are excessive.
Venezuela overtook  Saudi Arabia  last year as the nation with the
largest proven oil reserves,  BP Plc (BP/)  said in its Statistical
Review of World Energy yesterday. The South American country’s
deposits were at 296.5 billion barrels at the end of last year,
surpassing Saudi Arabia’s 265.4 billion, BP said.  IEA Forecast  The  International Energy Agency  reduced its forecast for
2012 crude consumption to 89.9 million barrels a day, the Paris-
based energy adviser said yesterday. That’s revised down by
100,000 barrels from May and reflects an increase of 820,000
barrels daily from last year.  U.S. demand for fuels averaged 18.7 million barrels a day
over the past four weeks, the Energy Department reported
yesterday. That’s down 1.9 percent from a year ago. The drop is
“reflecting the ongoing weakness in macro data,”  Michael Wittner , the global head of oil market research at Societe
Generale SA in New York, said in a report.  Gasoline stockpiles declined 1.7 million barrels, the
report showed. They were projected to rise  1.4 million barrels ,
according to the survey. Distillate inventories, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, slid 63,000 barrels compared
with a forecast 1.2 million barrel gain.  Crude supplies dropped  191,000 barrels  last week, the
Energy Department report showed. They were forecast to slip 1.5
million barrels, according to the median estimate from 12
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Companies operated refineries at 92 percent of capacity
last week, up 1 percentage point from the prior week and the
highest level since August 2007, the report showed.  Brent’s July premium over August was at 42 cents, compared
with 41 cents yesterday. The widening price spread is attributed
to concern of the upcoming Greek election as well as the OPEC
meeting, according to Ehsan Ul-Haq, senior market consultant at
KBC Energy Economics in Walton-on-Thames,  England .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  