-- Oil Trades Near Eight-Month Low Before OPEC Meeting
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-06-14T07:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/oil-rebounds-from-eight-month-low-before-opec-meeting.html
Oil traded near the lowest close in
eight months in  New York  before OPEC meets to discuss potential
changes to its production quotas.  Futures fluctuated today, rising as much as 0.6 percent
after earlier falling for the fifth time in six days. The
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which convenes in
Vienna today, will probably maintain its output ceiling as
concern that global growth is shrinking outweighs calls for
supply cuts to stem sliding crude prices, three of the cartel’s
delegates said. Oil advanced after approaching a technical
support level, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “We’ve got a core long position on oil,”  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin in
Sydney, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “We still
feel we’re getting to the lower end of prices. We see $80 a
barrel as having good psychological support.”  Oil for July delivery was at $82.63 a barrel, up 1 cent, in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 2:43
p.m. Singapore time. It earlier fell 0.4 percent. The contract
slid 0.8 percent yesterday to $82.62, the lowest close since
Oct. 6. Prices are down 16 percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement, which expires today, gained
9 cents to $97.22 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. The more-actively traded August future was up 8
cents at $96.80. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
West Texas Intermediate was at $14.63, from $14.51 yesterday.  OPEC Output  Oil in New York has technical support along its 200-week
moving average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures
last week halted their decline near the indicator, which is at
$80.80 a barrel this week. Buy orders tend to be clustered near
chart-support levels.  The break-even price of Brent for oil-producing nations in
the Gulf Cooperation Council will fall to about $80 a barrel
this year, the first drop since 2003, Deutsche Bank AG said in a
report today.  Ministers from Ecuador, Kuwait and  Nigeria  said yesterday
that OPEC is set to keep its 30 million barrel-a-day limit.
While an increase of as much as 1 million barrels a day
suggested by some Gulf Arab countries would help Europe weather
its slowdown, the 12-member group will probably settle on the
status quo, according to two Middle Eastern delegates who
declined to be identified because a decision hasn’t been made.  “The OPEC meeting is a foregone conclusion,” said
Fereidun Fesharaki, the chairman of Facts  Global Energy Inc. (GEYI)  in
Singapore. “Brent is a little below $100 a barrel, which is
what Saudi Arabia wants. OPEC will not let Brent go below $90.”  Venezuela, Iran  Countries including  Venezuela  and  Iran  have argued that
crude supplies are excessive. Iran is OPEC’s second-biggest
producer. Venezuela overtook  Saudi Arabia  last year as the
nation with the largest proven oil reserves,  BP Plc (BP/)  said in its
Statistical Review of World Energy yesterday. The South American
country’s deposits were at 296.5 billion barrels at the end of
last year, surpassing Saudi Arabia’s 265.4 billion, BP said.  The  International Energy Agency  reduced its forecast for
2012 crude consumption to 89.9 million barrels a day, the Paris-
based energy adviser said yesterday. That’s revised down by
100,000 barrels from May and reflects an increase of 820,000
barrels daily from last year.  U.S. demand for fuels averaged 18.7 million barrels a day
over the past four weeks, the Energy Department reported
yesterday. That’s down 1.9 percent from a year ago. The drop is
“reflecting the ongoing weakness in macro data,”  Michael Wittner , the global head of oil market research at Societe
Generale SA in New York, said in a report.  U.S. Inventories  Gasoline stockpiles declined 1.7 million barrels, the
report showed. They were projected to rise  1.4 million barrels ,
according to the survey. Distillate inventories, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, slid 63,000 barrels compared
with a forecast 1.2 million barrel gain.  Crude supplies dropped  191,000 barrels  last week, the
Energy Department report showed. They were forecast to slip 1.5
million barrels, according to the median estimate from 12
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Companies operated refineries at 92 percent of capacity
last week, up 1 percentage point from the prior week and the
highest level since August 2007, the report showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in  Singapore  at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  