-- Oil Rout Has China Hoarding Most Since Olympics: Energy Markets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-14T23:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/oil-rout-has-china-hoarding-most-since-olympics-energy-markets.html
China  is hoarding crude at the
fastest rate since the Beijing Olympics four years ago as the
slump in international prices prompts it to import unprecedented
volumes even as refining slows.  The world’s second-biggest oil consumer built up a surplus
of about 90 million barrels of crude in the first five months of
the year, government data show. The excess, the most since the
run-up to the 2008 games, is probably being kept at
emergency and commercial storage centers, according to the
 International Energy Agency .  London ’s Brent oil slid the most in
more than three years in May.  China, which imports more than half its crude, is
constructing about 200 million barrels of storage capacity in
the second stage of a plan for strategic reserves to help it
manage price swings. Overseas purchases rose to a record last
month even as processing by refiners including  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (600028)  and PetroChina Co. slackened.  “The only thing that can explain this is stockpiling,”
 Neil Beveridge , a senior analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
said in a telephone interview from Hong Kong. “It’s inevitable
that China, which is behind the curve in stockpiling, will try
to build up and the drop in crude prices will only make them
want to keep on buying. It is some form of support for oil.”  Price Slump  Brent crude , a benchmark grade for more than half the
world’s petroleum, tumbled 15 percent in May, the biggest
decline since December 2008, on speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis
will derail the global economic recovery and curb fuel demand.
Futures for July delivery closed at $97.03 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London yesterday.  Prices surged in the first quarter on concern that Middle
East supplies would be disrupted amid tighter international
sanctions on  Iran . Brent traded at $128.40 a barrel on March 1,
the highest level in almost four years, after a report of an
explosion at an oil pipeline in  Saudi Arabia , the world’s
biggest exporter of crude.  China’s imports rose 10 percent to a record 6 million
barrels a day in May compared with April, customs data showed
June 10. Oil refining was little changed at 9.1 million barrels
a day, after falling the previous three months.  Strategic Supplies  The crude surplus, or net  imports  and domestic  production 
minus the volume of oil processed in refineries, was 4.4 million
metric tons in May, or more than 1 million barrels a day. The
surfeit averaged about 591,000 barrels a day in the first five
months of this year, or almost 90 million in total, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s the highest level since China added 99 million
barrels of crude in the first five months of 2008, as refiners
increased stockpiles to ensure supplies during the Olympics.  While this year’s excess may partly reflect demand for
crude to burn in power stations and unreported consumption by
refiners, “some of this is likely also to represent crude-oil
flows into strategic storage,” the Paris-based IEA said in its
monthly Oil Market Report on June 13. “Were China to fill new
storage capacity steadily over the course of 2012, that could
add 150,000 to 200,000 barrels a day to underlying demand.”  Additional imports may be offset by slowing consumption in
China, which accounted for about half of global crude-demand
growth last year, as the economy cools, according to China
National Petroleum Corp., the nation’s biggest oil company, and
JBC Energy GmbH, a Vienna-based consultant. The nation’s gross
domestic product will grow 8.2 percent this year, down from 9.2
percent in 2011, the median estimate of 22 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News last month shows.  Slowing Demand  Chinese oil demand may increase by an average of 340,000
barrels a day this year, compared with 470,000 last year,
Alexander Poegl, an analyst at JBC in Vienna, said by e-mail.
Consumption in April slid by 55,000 barrels a day compared with
a year earlier, according to the IEA.  “China’s oil demand will remain weak until at least the
third quarter,” said Gong Jinshuang, a Beijing-based senior
engineer at CNPC. “There may be a rebound in the fourth quarter
if the government’s stimulus measures work.”  The nation’s central bank lowered benchmark lending and
deposit rates by 25 basis points effective June 8, and also
allowed banks more leeway to set their own  interest rates . It
may cut rates at least once more this year and reduce banks’
reserve requirements three times, Shen Jianguang, the chief Asia
economist for Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong  and a
former European Central Bank economist, said June 10.  Filling Storage  Oil demand will rise to 10 million barrels a day in the
fourth quarter from 9.6 million in the second, the IEA estimated
in its report, citing a “widely held belief” that the
government will act to shore up the economy.  The nation has probably added enough oil to emergency
stockpiles to fill two sites completed late last year under the
second phase of the three-stage reserve plan, China
International Capital Corp. said in a June 12 report. The
centers at Dushanzi in Xinjiang and Lanzhou in  Gansu province 
have a capacity of 38 million barrels, CNPC said in its annual
oil and gas report in February. More than 50 million barrels of
additional capacity will be completed in the second half of this
year, according to CICC.  Long-Term Plans  China, whose overseas oil purchases are second only to the
U.S., plans to have stockpiles equivalent to 100 days of net
imports by 2020, China Petroleum said in September 2009, citing
a plan approved by the government. That’s about 600 million
barrels, based on May’s imports. The U.S. held 696 million
barrels in its  Strategic Petroleum Reserve  as of the week ended
June 1, according to the Energy Information Administration.  China finished building four sites in 2009 under the first
phase of the reserve that can hold about 103 million barrels.
About 207 million barrels of storage capacity at eight sites
will be built for the second stage, CNPC said in its February
report. Third-phase facilities are still being planned.  “China will likely take advantage of falling international
 oil prices  to keep filling its strategic petroleum reserve,”
Janet Kong, an analyst at CICC in Hong Kong, said in the bank’s
report. “Crude imports will likely stay high.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jing Yang  in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net ;
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  