-- Oil Gains a Second Day on Stimulus Speculation, OPEC Call
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-06-15T07:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/oil-gains-a-second-day-on-stimulus-speculation-opec-output-call.html
Oil rose in  New York , heading for a
second week of gains, on speculation that the U.S. Federal 
Reserve may take more steps to stimulate the economy and on
OPEC’s call for members to cut production in excess of quotas.  Futures climbed as much as 1.1 percent, their second
consecutive advance. Reports yesterday showed U.S. jobless 
claims unexpectedly increased and the cost of living fell by 
the most in more than three years. The Organization of 
Petroleum Exporting Countries needs to reduce output by 1.6
million barrels a day to comply with its targeted ceiling,
Secretary-General Abdalla El-Badri said.  “There are more supportive factors now for oil than there
are negative,”  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive officer of
Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity-markets newsletter in Sydney,
said in a telephone interview. “The whole purpose of the cartel
is to provide guidelines to production. Compliance is just a
word. If the price slips below $80 a barrel then quotas will
change and give prices a big bump.”  Oil for July delivery rose as much as 89 cents to $84.80 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $84.68 at 2:54 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract increased 1.6 percent yesterday to $83.91, the highest
settlement since June 8. Prices are 0.7 percent higher this week
and down 14 percent in 2012.  Brent crude  for August settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange climbed as much as 93 cents, or 1
percent, to $98.10 a barrel. The European benchmark contract was
at a premium of $13.10 to New York crude. The gap was $13.12
yesterday, the narrowest close since May 2.  Bullish Chart  Oil in New York is extending gains after yesterday’s
rebound created a so-called bullish engulfing pattern on the
daily candlestick chart, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Crude has long-term technical support along its 200-
week moving average, around $80.81 a barrel. Buy orders tend to
be clustered near chart-support levels.  OPEC kept its output limit at 30 million barrels a day at a
meeting in Vienna yesterday as concern global growth is
shrinking outweighed calls by some members for supply cuts to
stem sliding prices. Increased production from  Saudi Arabia , the
world’s biggest oil exporter, has been blamed for the drop in
prices by members including  Iran , whose own exports will
probably be curbed by a European Union embargo scheduled to
start July 1. OPEC’s 12 members pump about 40 percent of the
world’s crude.  Korea Imports  South Korea ’s crude imports from Iran in May fell 40
percent from a year earlier, the customs service said today. The
world’s fifth-largest oil importer purchased 550,714 metric
tons, or about 17,765 tons a day, from Iran last month, compared
with 911,889 tons a year earlier, according to the service’s
website.  Claims for unemployment insurance payments in the U.S.
unexpectedly climbed by 6,000 to 386,000 in the week ended June
9, Labor Department figures showed yesterday. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News projected claims would fall to
375,000. The cost of living in the world’s largest oil-consuming
nation declined 0.3 percent in May.  Oil in New York may fall next week on speculation  Europe ’s
debt crisis will spread after the downgrade of  Spain ’s credit
rating and weekend elections in  Greece , a Bloomberg News survey
showed. Seventeen of 39 analysts and traders, or 44 percent,
forecast crude will decline through June 22. Fifteen
respondents, or 38 percent, predicted futures will increase and
seven said there will be little change.  China  is hoarding crude at the fastest rate since the
Beijing Olympics four years ago as oil’s slump prompts the
country to import unprecedented volumes, even as refining slows.  The world’s second-biggest oil consumer built a surplus of
about 90 million barrels of crude in the first five months of
the year, government data show. The excess, the highest since
the run-up to the 2008 games, is probably being kept at
emergency and commercial storage centers, according to the
 International Energy Agency .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  