-- Oil Climbs Most in Two Months on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-06-14T19:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/oil-fluctuates-on-opec-u-s-jobless-claims.html
Crude rose the most in more than two
months on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will loosen monetary
policy to spur growth and as OPEC members were asked to cut
production that exceeds their current output ceiling.  Oil advanced 1.6 percent as a worse-than-expected jobless
claims report fueled expectations that Fed policy makers will
announce new stimulus measures next week. OPEC Secretary-General
Abdalla El-Badri said group’s production is about 1.6 million
barrels a day above the 30 million target renewed today.  “It just gives more ammunition to the Fed and a greater
chance that we’ll see something happen,” said Jacob Correll, a
Louisville, Kentucky-based analyst at Summit Energy Inc., which
manages more than $20 billion in companies’ annual energy
spending. The OPEC decision “is basically baked into the cake,
and it’s not really adding positive or negative influence.”  Oil for July delivery gained $1.29 to settle at $83.91 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the biggest
percentage increase since April 11. Futures extended their
advance to $84.37 a barrel in electronic trading after the
settlement.  Brent oil for July settlement, which expired today, slid 10
cents to $97.03 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The more active August contract increased 45 cents, or
0.5 percent, to $97.17 a barrel.  Speculation grew that the Fed will discuss stimulus efforts
after reports showed jobless claims climbed by 6,000 to 386,000,
above the 375,000 median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  The cost of living in the U.S. fell in May by the most in
more than three years, Labor Department data showed today,
giving Fed policy makers more flexibility to take further action
to bolster U.S. economic growth.  FOMC Meeting  The Fed’s policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee will
meet June 19 as slowing employment growth at home and a
deepening crisis in  Europe  weigh on the economic outlook.  “There is a lot of anticipation of a stimulus plan,” said
Phil Streible, a Chicago-based commodities broker at RJO
Futures. “Oil is tracking equities and the dollar.”  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion in bonds from
December 2008 to June 2011 to stimulate the economy in an action
known as quantitative easing. Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said this week that extending the Twist, a plan that
lengthens the average duration of bonds in the Fed’s portfolio,
“would be useful.”  Equities Rise  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.7 percent. The
euro rose 0.4 percent against the dollar. A stronger euro and
weaker dollar increase oil’s appeal as an investment
alternative.  “Oil is finding a short-term base here since we can’t
break through $80,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market
strategist and founder of Iitrader.com in  Chicago . “It’s going
to be pinned in a bit of a range here.”  The 12 members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries are collectively producing 31.6 million barrels a day,
El-Badri told a press conference at the end of the OPEC
ministers’ meeting in Vienna.  Saudi Arabia , whose ministerAli al-Naimi had indicated
this week that he might favor a production increase, said he was
“happy” with today’s decision to leave the output target
intact.  Keeping OPEC production unchanged may be “a bit bullish
because they were looking for an increase, but it might not have
a long-lasting effect,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The main
driver of the market remains the economic outlook, and I don’t
think people have confidence that the U.S. recovery is
proceeding.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 515,914
contracts as of 3:21 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 629,186
contracts yesterday, 12 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.47 million, the highest level since May 18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  