-- Hollande Says Europe Needs Mechanisms Against Speculation
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-06-14T19:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/hollande-says-europe-needs-mechanisms-against-speculation-1-.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
said that Italy has been unjustly attacked by financial markets
and that Europe needs mechanisms to counter speculation.  Speaking in  Rome  today at a joint press conference with
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , Hollande said both leaders
agreed that measures are needed to spur economic growth in
Europe. Growth is necessary for debt reduction and doesn’t
contradict budget discipline, he said.  “Increases in  interest rates  are not justified in
countries like Italy that have made serious efforts and have a
 budget surplus ,” Hollande said. “You can’t ask people to make
efforts when there are no rewards for the effort.”  Italy’s 10-year bond yield has risen almost 40 basis points
since June 9 when  Spain  said it would request as much as 100
billion euros ($126 billion) in emergency loans from EU allies
to shore up its banks. The yield rose to the highest in almost
five months yesterday before declining 9 basis points today to
6.13 percent.  The rise in bond yields “gives the unpleasant impression
that the things that are being done aren’t moving in the right
direction or that they aren’t sufficient, when it’s exactly the
opposite,” Monti said.  Europe must do its duty in helping to deliver economic
growth for Greece, which has made enormous efforts during its
bailout program, Hollande said. Monti said he and Hollande
agreed that Greece needs to remain a member of the single
currency.  Stimulus Measures  A French official told reporters stimulus measures that
could be made available immediately, including project bonds and
adding capital to the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, may add up to as much as 100 billion euros.  Europe  can improve its crisis response, and has the means
to control its future, Hollande said.  “Until we have a strong stable mechanism with adequate
resources, we will be vulnerable,” he said.  Many ideas are on the table to combat the crisis, he said,
citing a banking license for the euro region’s permanent rescue
fund, which would give it “greater power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  