-- Hollande Seeks More Centralized ECB Supervision of Europe Banks
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-06-14T12:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/hollande-seeks-more-centralized-ecb-supervision-of-europe-banks.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
sent to Brussels his plan for stabilizing the euro and spurring
European growth with measures including a more centralized
supervision of lenders by the  European Central Bank .  Hollande sent the European Union presidency his proposals
to be incorporated in a broader plan for building a more
integrated euro area that will be discussed at a summit on June
28-29, an aide to the president said, declining to be identified
because of internal rules. The region’s leaders have asked EU
President  Herman Van Rompuy  to sketch out “building blocks”
for the summit that will come after a Greek election on June 17
that may trigger that country’s exit from the currency.  The French proposals don’t include contingency measures
should  Greece  exit the euro area, Hollande’s  aide  told Bloomberg
News. They include guidelines for growth, financial stability
and a more integrated monetary union, the official said. It is a
political plan that takes into account the concerns of the
market, the aide added.  Proposals from Hollande and other EU leaders reflect
efforts to underpin a banking system pockmarked by bad debt,
notably on  Europe ’s crisis-hit periphery.  Hollande’s proposals call for the ECB to be placed in
charge of a regional banking union, supervising financial
institutions and guaranteeing deposits with funds raised through
a tax on lenders, Le Monde reported, citing unnamed officials in
the president’s office.  More Proposals  He called for the European Stability Mechanism, or ESM, to
be able to recapitalize troubled banks, the daily said.  France ’s plan will be sent to EU members today, Le Monde
said. The proposals also include a 10-year plan for the creation
of euro bonds, the use of bonds to finance infrastructure
projects, a financial transaction tax and the recapitalization
of the  European Investment Bank , the afternoon daily reported,  The 2012 institutional rethink comes after the setup of two
rescue funds, a “Euro Plus Pact” to promote competitiveness, a
“European semester” to coordinate economic policies,
unprecedented ECB bond purchases, two overhauls of fiscal rules
and the drawing of a German-inspired deficit-limitation treaty.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  