-- Shrinking ‘Shadow Inventory’ Eases Threat to U.S. Housing
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-06-14T21:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/home-shadow-inventory-falls-to-lowest-since-2008.html
The overhang of pending foreclosures
that threatened to flood the U.S. housing market and depress
prices is dissipating as banks sell off distressed properties
and let borrowers sell homes for less than they owe.  The so-called shadow inventory of homes that are seriously
delinquent, in the foreclosure process or owned by banks and not
listed for sale tumbled in April to the lowest level in more
than three years,  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX)  said today. Home seizures
plunged 18 percent from a year earlier even as initial notices
of foreclosure increased, a sign that banks are turning to
repossession alternatives, RealtyTrac Inc. said today.  A surge in foreclosed properties, which typically sell at a
discount, may have driven down  home prices , hurting a market
that’s showing signs of bottoming. Transactions involving homes
in the pre-foreclosure process rose 25 percent from a year
earlier in the first quarter to a three-year high,  Irvine ,
California-based RealtyTrac said on May 31.  “In some ways, the shadow inventory was aptly named
because shadows can sometimes appear larger than the actual
problem,”  Daren Blomquist , a RealtyTrac vice president, said in
an interview. “The uncertainty of how much distressed inventory
would end up on the market was more of a problem than what the
actual numbers are turning out to be.”  The shadow inventory fell 15 percent from a year earlier to
about 1.5 million homes and is at the lowest since October 2008,
the  Santa Ana , California-based real estate information company
CoreLogic said in a statement today. That represents a supply of
about four months, down from six months in April 2011.  ‘Positive Development’  “The decline in the shadow inventory is a positive
development because it removes some of the downward pressure on
 house prices ,”  Mark Fleming , chief economist for CoreLogic,
said in a statement today. “This is one of the reasons why some
markets that were formerly identified as deeply distressed, like
Arizona,  California  and Nevada, are now experiencing price
increases.”  Serious mortgage delinquencies also are down, with the
share of payments 90 days late dropping to a three-year low of
6.86 percent in April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Arizona  had a 37 percent decline in serious delinquencies, more
than any other state, followed by California, Nevada, Michigan
and Minnesota, CoreLogic said today.  Foreclosure starts rose in May from a year earlier for the
first time in more than two years after the largest U.S. loan
servicers settled with states over faulty documentation. An
increasing share of those distressed homes are being disposed of
through short sales, in which owners sell their properties for
less than they owe to avoid repossession, Blomquist said.  Distressed houses that come up for sale are likely to be
quickly absorbed as demand rises in some cities where property
inventory is low. Rising buyer interest is spurring banks to
approve more short sales, said Doug Duncan, chief economist for
Washington-based mortgage financier  Fannie Mae. (FNMA)   “The sense is now is the time to move and clear
inventory,” Duncan said today in a telephone interview. “If
you see house prices continue to stabilize, you’re not selling
into a falling price market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  