-- Hong Kong Questions China Claims That Dissident Hanged Himself
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   C r y s t a l   C h u i
-- 2012-06-14T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/hong-kong-questions-if-chinese-dissident-s-death-was-suicide-1-.html
Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  said he told China the death of dissident Li Wangyang was
“suspicious,” using his final address to legislators to make
his strongest criticism of the mainland’s  human rights  record.  Tsang said he “understands the views of Hong Kong people”
after thousands took to the streets over the death of Li, who
was nearly deaf and blind and was found hanged in a hospital
ward in the Chinese city of Shaoyang on June 6. Two days
earlier, at least 85,000 people attended a vigil for victims of
the 1989 Tiananmen Square crackdown.  Tsang’s comments yesterday, less than three weeks before he
leaves office, mark a reversal for a leader who, like his
predecessor, refrained from publicly questioning authorities in
the mainland. Li’s death has been ignored in Chinese state-run
media as the Communist Party seeks to maintain stability ahead
of a once-in-a-decade leadership transition later this year.  Tsang knows that people in  Hong Kong  “care about Li
Wangyang’s death and follow the news very closely,” said Ivan Choy, a senior government lecturer at the  Chinese University of
Hong Kong . He said the comments mean Chinese leaders “cannot
pretend they don’t know what happened and ignore the issue.”  Official Version  The official version of Li’s death was met with incredulity
by some users of Chinese microblogging services after images
circulated online that show him hanged by the neck even as his
feet remained on the ground. His relatives  also questioned  the
authorities’ description of the death as suicide.  Rita Fan, a member of National People’s Congress Standing
Committee, joined other Hong Kong political leaders including
the ministers of health and security in expressing suspicion
about the death, the  South China Morning Post  reported
yesterday.  The southern Chinese province of Hunan has started an
investigation into Li’s death, Hong Kong China News Agency
reported, citing a spokesman from the provincial public
security department it didn’t identify. The Hunan government
earlier asked for a coroner from outside the province to 
examine Li’s body, according to the report.  Li was initially sentenced to 11 years in prison for his
participation in the 1989 pro-democracy movement, according to
information posted on the website of Human Rights in China. He
lost his sight and hearing, and had trouble walking after being
tortured in prison for refusing to admit guilt, the site said.  In the crackdown 23 years ago, Chinese troops fired on
demonstrators who had massed in the square for weeks to demand
democratic reforms. The U.S. Embassy in Beijing estimated a
death toll exceeding 1,000.  ‘Not Familiar’  Asked June 8 about a demand by the rights group  Amnesty
International  to investigate the death, Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokesman  Liu Weimin  told a briefing that Li was “somebody I’m
not familiar with.”  Other scandals have confronted the party this year,
including Chongqing Party Secretary  Bo Xilai ’s ouster and
suspension from the Politburo over murder allegations
surrounding his wife, and legal activist  Chen Guangcheng ’s
flight to the U.S. Embassy in Beijing in April.  The address was Tsang’s last to Hong Kong’s Legislative
Council before he leaves office at the end of this month. In the
speech, he acknowledged having made “lapses of judgment” and
“errors of execution” during his time in office.  His final months were roiled by revelations that he took
trips on yachts and planes owned by billionaire businessmen, in
a city with the widest wealth gap in  Asia .  Soul Searching  While he said he’ll continue to do some soul searching, he
said he won’t resign before his term end. “I must finish my
tasks,” he said.  Of the city’s widening wealth gap, Tsang said salary
increases for low-skilled workers have not matched those of
high-skilled employees in the city. The  wealth gap  in Hong Kong
is a long-term challenge that has fueled discontent, he said.  Tsang said his transition with Chief Executive-elect Leung
Chun-ying will be “smooth.” Leung, a member of the standing
committee of Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference,
will take over as the city’s third chief executive on July 1,
when Hong Kong will mark the 15th anniversary of its return to
 China  from British colonial rule.  Tsang, a career bureaucrat, was chosen to lead the city in
2005. He was Hong Kong’s financial secretary during the Asian
financial crisis, when the Hong Kong Monetary Authority spent
HK$118 billion ($15.1 billion) buying stocks to defend the Hong
Kong dollar’s peg to the greenback.  He took over the city’s top post from Tung Chee-hwa, the
city’s first chief executive after it was returned to Chinese
rule in 1997. Tung resigned halfway into his second term after
demonstrations by hundreds of thousands of people in 2003
against a proposed anti-subversion law they feared would curtail
individual freedoms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Crystal Chui in Hong Kong at 
 tchui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  