-- OPEC Poised to Retain Oil-Output Target
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-06-14T17:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/opec-set-to-keep-output-ceiling-unchanged-amid-europe-crisis-3-.html
OPEC was set to maintain its
production ceiling as concern that global growth is shrinking
outweighs calls for supply cuts to stem sliding crude prices.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has
agreed to maintain the limit, one delegate said from Vienna
where ministers remained locked in a meeting for more than four
hours. The delegate declined to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak to the media. Ministers from  Ecuador ,  Iran ,
Venezuela, Algeria, Angola and Nigeria back a rollover of the
group’s 30 million barrel-a-day limit. Kuwait expects the
ceiling to be unchanged.  Brent crude  dropped 24 percent since March to $97.13 a
barrel yesterday as OPEC’s biggest producer, Saudi Arabia,
pumped near its highest in three decades. Europe has struggled
to control a crisis that started in  Greece  at the end of 2009
and this month led to a bailout of banks in  Spain , the region’s
fourth-largest economy. The  International Energy Agency  cut its
2012 oil demand forecast yesterday by 100,000 barrels a day.  “In the present environment, raising the target would send
out the wrong signal, as it would suggest that OPEC is not
willing to step down the overproduction,”  Eugen Weinberg , head
of commodity research at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said in a
note yesterday. “This would risk a continued oversupply and a
further drop in prices.”  ‘Not so Positive’  Brent, a benchmark for more than half the world’s oil, rose
as high as $128.40 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange on March 1. The contract traded at $97.09 as of
6:42 local time.  While an increase of 500,000 to 1 million barrels a day
would help Europe weather its economic slowdown, members such as
Iran and Venezuela oppose such a move, two delegates who
declined to be identified said yesterday.  Prospects for Europe’s economy are “not so positive” and
will have an important role in determining oil market
fundamentals in the short term, Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said yesterday in Vienna.  “We’re still in a pretty fragile economic situation,”
 David Fyfe , head of the Paris-based IEA’s oil industry and
markets division, said yesterday by phone. “We don’t
necessarily view the market presently as oversupplied.”  OPEC  is pumping  1.58 million barrels a day more than its
target, according to a monthly report from the group’s
secretariat that uses secondary sources such as analysts and
news agencies for output estimates.  Saudi Arabia  boosted production to 9.92 million barrels a
day in May from 9.88 million barrels the previous month,
according to OPEC estimates. The kingdom said it had  cut
production  to 9.8 million from 10.1 million barrels in April.  Dangerous for Producers  The recent slump in crude is dangerous for producers and
prices need to be higher than $100, according to Venezuela’s Oil
Minister  Rafael Ramirez .  “We are asking to reduce oil production,” Ramirez said in
an interview in Vienna today. “There is over production and the
economic situation is bad in the  euro zone . The market has a lot
of oil,” he said.  Iran, facing a European Union embargo on its oil exports,
and Venezuela have been joined by Iraq,  Angola , Libya and
Ecuador in saying that global crude supplies are excessive.  “The drop in prices, we have objection,” Rostam Qasemi,
Iran’s oil minister, said in Vienna. He met today with his Iraqi
counterpart Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi to discuss the group’s
production.  Short Memories  “Some may be tempted to see the market as oversupplied,
and there have been calls by a number of producers for ‘over-
production’ to be reined in,” the IEA said yesterday in its
monthly report. “Memories are indeed short: crude prices remain
very high in historical terms, and are acting as a drag on
household and government budgets.”  Tightening sanctions on Iran and production halts outside
of OPEC pose some risks to supply for the rest of the year, the
IEA said. Outages from producers in the North Sea, Syria, Yemen
and Sudan and South Sudan will reach 1.18 million barrels a day
in the third quarter, the agency said.  OPEC will “most likely” keep its output limit when it
meets,  Kuwait ’s Oil Minister Hani Abdulaziz Hussain said. “That
looks to be the most likely outcome of the meeting: Maintaining
the ceiling.”  Ministers began closed-session talks just before 3:30 p.m.
local time in Vienna. A press conference by al-Luaibi, who holds
the group’s rotating presidency, and Secretary-General Abdalla El-Badri was scheduled for 5 p.m.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Vienna at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Vienna at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  