-- OPEC Decision Puts Onus on Saudi Arabia Should Oil Fall
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-06-15T14:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/opec-decision-puts-onus-on-saudi-arabian-cuts-should-prices-fall.html
OPEC’s decision to keep its output
quota unchanged yesterday throws the onus on the group’s biggest
producer,  Saudi Arabia , to cut supply should crude prices extend
their drop below $100 a barrel.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries would
need to reduce output by 1.6 million barrels a day to comply
with its targeted ceiling of 30 million barrels a day,
Secretary-General Abdalla El-Badri said yesterday. Increased
production from Saudi Arabia has been blamed for plunging prices
by members including  Iran , whose own exports are set to drop as
a European Union embargo starts July 1. Saudi Arabia will make
sure there is enough supply in the global crude market, the
kingdom’s oil minister said today in an interview.  “It puts some of the onus on the Saudis, but at the end of
the day, they’re going to remain very responsive to what happens
in the world market,” Jason Schenker, president of Prestige
Economics LLC, a commodity researcher in Austin,  Texas , said in
an interview in Vienna yesterday. Iranian supply will “come off
the market with the full implementation of the embargo and that
could push the number down toward 30 million,” he said.  Saudi Arabia has led the surge in OPEC’s output above its
official limit this year, as  Brent crude  prices rose in March to
their highest since July 2008 on concern sanctions against Iran
will disrupt Middle East supply. Since then, signs that  Europe ’s
debt crisis will erode fuel demand have driven the price back
below $100, a level favored by its Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi .  Politically Charged  Brent crude traded at $97.53 a barrel at 2:47 p.m. in
 London  today, down 24 percent from this year’s high of $128.40.  Yesterday’s gathering was strained by political tensions
after Iran complained that other members were taking their
customers as the EU boycotts its oil, warning that Saudi
Arabia’s higher output risked causing an “imbalance” in the
market. Al-Naimi suggested at the start of the week that OPEC
may need to boost the ceiling to account for increased demand in
the second half of the year and help ease the burden of high
prices on consumers.  The desert kingdom has bolstered  output  by 11 percent in
the past year to 9.9 million barrels a day last month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. While OPEC no longer sets
individual national quotas, by raising output to a three-decade
peak, Saudi Arabia has done the most to push total OPEC supply
above the target. The nation will cut production in the second
half of the year to 9.5 million, “due to the lower prices and
the massive global stock build,” JBC Energy GmbH, a Vienna-
based researcher, said in a report today.  More Demand Later  While most OPEC ministers highlighted the current excess
supply, some including  Qatar ’s Mohammed bin Saleh Al Sada said a
portion of that would be absorbed by increased demand later this
year. The OPEC secretariat’s own analysis in a monthly  report 
showed demand for the group’s crude rising to 30.9 million
barrels a day next quarter from 29.3 million currently.  Al-Naimi told reporters yesterday after the session that he
was “happy” with the decision and that it was good for
consumers.  “The whole idea is that there will not be any shortages in
the market,” al-Naimi said in the interview with Bloomberg
News. “That has been Saudi Arabia’s policy all along. To manage
stability of the oil market, keeping it in balance.”  Saudi Arabia will honor any requests to supply its
customers within the context of a stable and balanced oil
market, according to an OPEC Gulf delegate with knowledge of
Saudi oil policy. The person declined to be identified because
he isn’t authorized to speak to the media.  Will Saudis Cut?  Some analysts doubt Saudi Arabia will restrain production
as readily as Iran and  Venezuela  would like.  “No, Saudi Arabia doesn’t have to cut production,” Bill Farren-Price, chief executive officer of Petroleum Policy
Intelligence, a Winchester, England-based consultant, said in an
interview in Vienna yesterday. “It will continue to do what it
has been doing until now: meeting customer demand. If customer
demand drops, then they will cut back accordingly.”  OPEC hasn’t specified which nations should cut, Kuwaiti Oil
Minister Hani Abdulaziz Hussain said. “There is no talk of any
particular country” reducing, he said when asked if his country
would be trimming output. The group’s limit is a collective one,
Hussain said, adding that “it’s more of a wait and see.”  Iran Sanctions Impact  Iran pumped 3.2 million barrels a day last month, according
to Bloomberg, as the EU ban nears and additional U.S. sanctions
on Iran’s banking sector inhibit purchases from some non-
European nations. Full implementation of the measures will
“ultimately lead to a cut of some 1 million barrels a day in
Iranian supplies” in the second half of the year, the Paris-
based  International Energy Agency  said in a May 13  report .  Various waivers that the U.S. has granted to some of Iran’s
customers means that “perhaps the impact will only be 400,000
barrels a day this summer instead of 800,000, but it’s still a
loss,” according to Chakib Khelil, a former Algerian oil
minister who held the OPEC Presidency in 2008.  The decision to leave the quota unchanged was in line with
the outcome predicted by all 20 analysts and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg News last week. OPEC will meet again on Dec. 12.  “The old ‘official’ quota is left unchanged as Saudi
Arabia cannot at the same time commit to a supply cut to please
OPEC and commit to replace Iranian barrels to please the G-20,”
 Olivier Jakob , managing director of Petromatrix GmbH in Zug,
 Switzerland , said in a report today.  The 12 members of OPEC are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Ecuador , Iran,
 Iraq ,  Kuwait ,  Libya ,  Nigeria , Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United
Arab Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in Vienna at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net 
Ayesha Daya in Vienna at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  