-- OPEC Maintains Oil Quota as Price Decline Brings Compromise
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-06-14T19:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/opec-leaves-quota-unchanged-as-price-drop-forces-compromise.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries kept its production ceiling unchanged, as
concern that global growth is shrinking outweighed calls by some
members for supply cuts to stem sliding prices.  The 12-member group agreed to leave the limit at 30 million
barrels a day, Youcef Yousfi,  Algeria ’s Minister of Energy and
Mines, said today in Vienna at the end of the producer group’s
first meeting of the year.  Venezuela , Angola and  Ecuador  were
among nations that backed keeping the quota unchanged prior to
the decision. Saudi Arabia, whose minister,  Ali al-Naimi , had
said this week he might favor a production increase, said he was
“happy” with today’s outcome.  OPEC has been exceeding its output limit this year as the
prospect of sanctions against  Iran , the group’s second-largest
member, pushed Brent oil in March to the highest level since
July 2008. Since then, concern that Europe’s debt crisis will
erode fuel demand has driven the crude back below $100 a barrel,
a level favored by Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and Libya.  “This doesn’t hide the elephant in the room, which is
ultimately the upcoming full implementation of sanctions on
Iranian oil,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-
markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London. “These in turn
imply that actual production from the cartel will continue to
remain above the official ceiling.”  Brent futures for August settlement traded at $97.12 a
barrel at 8:02 p.m. on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London, down about 24 percent from this year’s high of $128.40.  December Meeting  All 20 analysts and traders surveyed by Bloomberg News
before the meeting forecast the group would leave the quota
unchanged. OPEC will meet again on Dec. 12, al-Naimi said.  Today’s meeting was the first in a decade at which OPEC has
refrained from reducing supplies while prices have been
tumbling. The group has agreed to cuts at every meeting in the
past 10 years that coincided with a price drop of more than 10
percent in the preceding three months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Members were asked to cut production in excess of the
agreed ceiling, OPEC Secretary-General Abdalla El-Badri said at
a press conference at the end of the meeting.  In taking this decision, the group said in its final
communique that “member countries confirmed their readiness to
swiftly respond to developments that might place oil market
stability in jeopardy.”  Excessive Supplies  Iran, Venezuela, Iraq, the United Arab Emirates, Angola,
Libya and Ecuador said global crude supplies are already
excessive.  Saudi Arabia  pumped 10.1 million barrels a day in
April, the highest in three decades, the  International Energy
Agency  said yesterday in a report. That fell to 10 million
barrels last month, according to IEA estimates.  Iran sees the risk of a “serious decrease” in  oil prices 
because of increased production from Saudi Arabia,Mohammad Ali Khatibi, the nation’s governor to OPEC, said May 29 in comments
posted on Shana, the Iranian Oil Ministry’s news website.  OPEC pumped 31.86 million  barrels  a day last month, the
Paris-based IEA said. Demand for OPEC’s crude will rise to 30.9
million barrels a day in the second half of this year, compared
with 29.8 million from January to June, it said.  Venezuela wants a stable oil at above $100 a barrel,
Ramirez said yesterday.  Libya ’s Oil Minister Abdul-Rahman Ben Yezza also referred to that price as his preferred “base
line.” Al-Naimi had cited that level as a target on a visit to
 Adelaide ,  Australia , on May 13.  The decision on a successor to El-Badri has been postponed
and will be discussed at the next meeting, al-Naimi said.  “The four are excellent candidates and that’s why it was
difficult to choose one of them,” El-Badri told reporters after
the meeting.  The 12 members of OPEC are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran,
Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United
Arab Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Vienna at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  