-- Operation Twist Slows Sales of Structured Notes Tied to Rates
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-06-14T17:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/operation-twist-slows-sales-of-structured-notes-tied-to-rates.html
Sales of U.S. structured notes that
gain when the gap grows between short- and long-term interest
rates have fallen by 82 percent after the  Federal Reserve 
decided last year to drive down longer rates.  Issuance of the securities dropped to $99.2 million over
the last nine months, compared with $571.1 million in the same
period a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The notes are often called “steepeners” because they rise if
the difference between long- and short-term rates increases.  “I’m not going to buy a steepener now if I know with
reasonable certainty that nothing is going to happen to rates in
the next year,” said Guus Oonincx, founder of G.O. Capital
Markets Consulting Services LLC and a former managing director
at ING Financial Group. “There’s more hunger for looking for
other sources of yield than interest rates. Interest rates are
just dead.”  The Fed said Sept. 21 it would seek to improve “broader
financial conditions” by buying $400 billion of bonds with
maturities of six to 30 years through June, while selling an
equal amount of debt maturing in three years or less. The move
has been dubbed Operation Twist by economists and analysts
because policy makers are attempting to twist the yield curve by
reducing longer rates, which are normally higher than short-
term.  Falling Spread  Since the announcement, the spread, or the difference
between yields on two-year and 30-year rates has fallen 43 basis
points to 185, Bloomberg data show. Yields on 30-year bonds fell
to as low as 2.5089 percent on June 1, a record according to
Federal Reserve figures beginning in 1953. Steepeners are often
tied to constant-maturity swap rates, benchmarks that measure
the cost of exchanging floating and fixed interest payments
through the swaps market.  Bank of America Corp. issued $25 million of 20-year notes
May 1 in the largest steepener offering since the Fed decision.
The securities yield 11.25 percent for the first year, then
switch to four times the difference between the 30- and 2-year
rates, capped at 11.25 percent, according to a prospectus filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The second-largest
bank by assets has issued the most of the securities this year
at $50.1 million, Bloomberg data show.  Broadly, sales of U.S. structured notes linked to interest
rates have declined 29 percent to $2.89 billion in the first
five months of 2012, compared with a year earlier, Bloomberg
data show. General Electric Co. has issued the largest deals
this year with four offerings each of $100 million, according to
prospectuses filed with the SEC. Those notes, called step-up
callables, yield a fixed  interest rate  that periodically
increases unless they’re redeemed early.  Structured notes are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 