-- Osborne Vows Joint Steps With Central Bank to Spur U.K. Credit
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-06-14T19:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/osborne-vows-joint-steps-with-central-bank-to-spur-u-k-credit.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and Bank of England Governor Mervyn King are preparing
two programs to increase the flow of credit amid a deteriorating
outlook in the euro area.  The U.K. central bank will activate an unused plan to
inject at least 5 billion pounds ($7.8 billion) a month into the
financial system. Another plan will allow lenders to swap assets
with the central bank in return for money to be lent to
companies and households. The Treasury will indemnify the bank
for any losses.  “We are not powerless in the face of the euro-zone debt
storm,” Osborne told financiers in his annual Mansion House
speech in  London  today. “The government -- with the help of the
Bank of England -- will not stand on the sidelines and do
nothing as the storm gathers.”  The plans mark a departure for the central bank, which has
so far resisted calls for targeted measures to boost lending to
the non-financial sector. Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker , a
contender to become governor when King’s term ends next year,
signaled this week that the bank had eased its stance.  The liquidity plan seeks to help banks alleviate the
strains resulting from the crisis in the euro area. Originally
established in December, the program has never been used. The
bank will announce details of its operation tomorrow.  The separate “funding for lending” plan comes on top of a
Treasury credit-easing program and will be operated by the
central bank for four years. Banks will be allowed to swap
assets with the central bank at monthly auctions and use that
money to lend to households and companies. The Treasury said a 5
percent increase in lending would inject about 80 billion pounds
into the economy. Further details on how the plan will operate
will be announced in the next few weeks, the Treasury said.  ‘Rolling Up Our Sleeves’  “We are rolling up our sleeves and doing everything
possible to protect British families and firms,” Osborne said.  King was the first senior British policy maker to conclude
in 2008 that the financial system was facing potential
insolvency, not merely a crisis of liquidity, and resisted calls
to flood the markets with cash. His stance at the time rankled
with government officials.  The shift comes as Osborne begins his search for a
successor to replace King next year. Two people with knowledge
of the matter said in February that Osborne is considering
looking outside the  Bank of England  for a replacement.  Weighing on prospects for a bank insider this time is a
series of clashes between the incumbent and the Treasury since
the start of the financial crisis. Former Chancellor Alistair Darling wrote in his memoir of his difficult relations with the
“incredibly stubborn” King, whom he considered not
reappointing for a second term.  Growth Emphasis  Osborne today coupled his commitment to cutting the  budget
deficit  and strengthening banks with an emphasis on growth as he
announced plans to expand the remit of the central bank’s
Financial Policy Committee, which monitors financial stability.  “I will make it a legal requirement for the FPC to report,
for every action it takes, how that action is compatible with
economic growth as well as stability,” Osborne said.  Osborne also repeated his support for a banking union in
the euro area to act as a backstop for the single currency. He
called for common bonds and for  Germany  to support weaker
economies in the 17-nation bloc.  Britain will not take part in any of the mechanisms to
support the euro, Osborne said.  “British taxpayers will not stand behind euro-zone banks,
and British voters want the British authorities to be in charge
of supervising our own banks, especially in a crisis,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  