-- Tottenham Says Manager Harry Redknapp to Leave Soccer Club
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-14T10:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/tottenham-hotspur-says-manager-harry-redknapp-to-leave-club.html
Tottenham Hotspur said  Harry Redknapp  will leave the Premier League soccer team, ending his
near four-year spell as manager.  “This is not a decision the board and I have taken
lightly,” Tottenham Chairman  Daniel Levy  said in a  statement  on
the club’s website. “Harry arrived at the club at a time when
his experience and approach was exactly what was needed.”  Redknapp, who was appointed in October 2008 and had a year
remaining on his contract, leaves after Spurs finished fourth in
the Premier League, though missed out on a  Champions League 
berth when Chelsea won  Europe ’s elite club competition. Levy and
Redknapp met yesterday to negotiate the manager’s departure
after talks over a new agreement broke down, the  Daily Telegraph 
reported, without saying where it got the information.  “I have had a fantastic four years with the club, at times
the football has been breathtaking,” Redknapp said in the
statement, which was posted on Tottenham’s website at 3:37 a.m.
local time. “I am sad to be leaving but wish to thank the
players, staff and fans for their terrific support during my
time there.”  Everton manager  David Moyes  is the bookmakers’ favorite to
be Tottenham’s next permanent manager ahead of Wigan’s  Roberto Martinez , according to the  Oddschecker website .  “Moyes was backed heavily earlier this year when Redknapp
was expected to take the England job, so it’s no surprise that
he is the name on everyone’s lips this time,” Coral bookmakers’
spokesman Gary Burton said in a release.  England Distraction  Redknapp, 65, was favored to replace Fabio Capello as
manager of the England national team when the Italian resigned
in February. When Capello left his post Feb. 8, Spurs were 10
points ahead of Arsenal in third place. They finished the season
one point behind their north London rival and the England job
went to  Roy Hodgson .  In an  interview  with the British Broadcasting Corp. last
week, Redknapp said he would have taken national coach’s role
had it been offered to him.  Redknapp took over from the fired Juande Ramos after Spurs
lost six of its opening eight games of the 2008-09 season, the
club’s worst start to a Premier League campaign, and led a
recovery from last place to eighth.  Champions League  Spurs ended the following season in fourth place to qualify
for the Champions League and reached the quarterfinals on their
tournament debut during the 2010-11 campaign, when they finished
fifth in the Premier League.  “I have thoroughly enjoyed my time at Spurs and am proud
of my achievements,” Redknapp added.  Former Tottenham defender John Scales said he was
“bewildered” by the club’s decision to change managers.  “I am staggered that a manager who took the club to
fourth, fifth and fourth again has gone,” Scales was cited as
saying by the Sun newspaper. “Even though we lost out to
Chelsea at the end, it has been another fantastic season.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  