-- Pelosi Joins Cantor Among Wealthiest U.S. House Leaders
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-06-14T18:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/pelosi-joins-cantor-among-wealthiest-u-s-house-leaders.html
House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi 
and her Republican counterpart, Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , are
the wealthiest members of the U.S. House leadership, according
to financial disclosure forms.  Pelosi, 72, of California tops the list of House leaders,
with $40 million to $187 million in financial assets she reports
with her husband, San Francisco commercial real estate investor
Paul Pelosi. Most of their assets are listed as rental
properties in California and partnership income in companies
including investment management and restaurants.  Cantor, 49, of Virginia listed financial assets including
stocks and real estate holdings valued at almost $4 million to
$9.6 million on his annual financial disclosure statement
released today.  In the Senate, Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky 
stands far above all his leadership counterparts, listing assets
valued between at least $9.9 million and $44.5 million. Much of
the wealth is held by his wife, Elaine Chao, who served as labor
secretary throughout former President George W. Bush’s eight
years in office.  Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl , the chamber’s second-ranking
Republican, reported assets between $467,000 and $1.08 million,
with the bulk of it in individual retirement accounts.  Domino’s Pizza  Among Cantor’s biggest stock holdings is an investment of
$500,000 to $1 million in  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ)  His wife, Diana, a
former  Goldman, Sachs & Co. (GS)  vice president who is chairman of
the board of the Virginia Retirement System, is a director of
Domino’s Pizza and  Media General Inc. (MEG) , a Richmond-based
newspaper and broadcast company.  The Cantors also own an Arlington, Virginia, condominium
valued at between $500,001 and $1 million. He listed between
$500,000 and $1 million in Bank of America bank accounts.  Maryland Democrat Steny Hoyer, the minority whip, is among
the least wealthy House leaders.  He cited assets of $30,000 to $100,000. Hoyer reported he
owes at least $100,000 and as much as $250,000 in a mortgage on
his home in Mechanicsville, Maryland, to SunTrust Banks in
Richmond.  Financial disclosure forms filed by members of Congress
require lawmakers to state the value of holdings in broad
ranges. Precise figures aren’t made public.  Mutual Funds  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican who once
owned a small business, listed unearned income of at least
$10,116 and as much as $46,700 from mutual-fund dividends or
capital-gains distributions.  Boehner listed assets valued between $1.8 million and $5.4
million. All of his stock and bond investments in companies
including  Intel Corp ., Home Depot Inc., Honeywell International
Inc., Pfizer Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  were through
individual retirement accounts. He and his wife, Debbie, who
works as a real estate agent, didn’t report a mortgage on their
home near a golf course in suburban Cincinnati.  Pelosi, who yielded the speakership to Boehner after
Republicans won control of the House, and her husband own a
vineyard in St. Helena, California, valued between $5 million
and $25 million.  Reid’s Assets  In the Senate, Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada is the
wealthiest Democratic leader, listing assets between $2.78
million to $6.19 million, with much of his net worth in real
estate holdings in his home state of Nevada and in Arizona.
Reid, the son of a Nevada hard-rock miner, has holdings in bonds
and stock mutual funds and other investments.  Patty Murray of Washington state, the fourth-ranking Senate
Democrat and the only woman in the chamber’s leadership, listed
assets between $564,000 and $1.5 million. Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York, the chamber’s third-ranking Democrat,
listed assets of $320,000 to $950,000.  About 20 percent of U.S. House members applied for filing
extensions this year.  Members of Congress are required to report details of
mortgages on their personal residences for the first time this
year, a provision included as part of a congressional ethics
law. While the Senate required members to list the terms of
their mortgage -- including interest rates, length and points
used to pay down their rates -- the House didn’t.  Mortgage Rates  Among lawmakers paying the highest home-mortgage interest
rates is Schumer, who has a 15-year mortgage taken out in 2002
at 6.85 percent.  House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus ,
an Alabama Republican who will preside over a hearing on
JPMorgan next week, has 2 mortgages with the bank, according to
federal disclosure documents. JPMorgan chief executive  Jamie Dimon  is scheduled to testify before the committee on June 19.  Senate Democrat  Jay Rockefeller  of West Virginia reported
among the best interest rates on a 1998 loan from the United
National Bank of Charleston. It is listed as New York Prime
minus 1 percent. As of June 13, the prime rate was 3.25 percent.  Today’s filings also show what gifts lawmakers have
received. Representative Gary Ackerman, a New York Democrat,
acknowledged exceeding legal limits. Ackerman, who is retiring
at the end of the year, accepted a “priceless” gift, according
to his personal financial disclosure form. What did the Long
Islander get?  “The blessed opportunity for 30 years to pay back, in some
small measure, the good things that happened to me.” And who
gave it to him? “The people,” his form said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Heidi Przybyla in
 Washington  at   hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jodi Schneider
in Washington at   jschneider50@bloomberg.net . 