-- Petrobras’s Plan Increases Spending, Cuts Output Target
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-06-14T20:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/petrobras-to-invest-236-5-billion-2012-2016.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s
state-controlled crude producer, cut its long-term output target
by 11 percent and said spending will rise to $236.5 billion
through 2016 as it increases investment at offshore  oil fields .  Petrobras forecasts output of 5.7 million barrels a day by
2020, down from a previous goal of 6.4 million barrels, the Rio
de Janeiro-based company said today in a statement. About $141.8
billion of the projected spending will help finance exploration
and production as Petrobras ramps up output at offshore fields.  The company is struggling to acquire the drilling equipment
and platforms needed from local and foreign shipyards to tap the
so-called pre-salt oil reserves located deep beneath the ocean
floor off  Brazil . Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Silva Foster took over earlier this year from Jose Sergio Gabrielli
after output in 2011 rose at the slowest pace in four years.
Production is expected to remain little changed this year and in
2013, the company said.  “If you’re a new CEO it might be fairly natural to reset
the target to have something more realistic to measure yourself
against,”  Nick Robinson , who helps manage $15 billion of Latin
American shares at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in  Sao Paulo ,
said by telephone. “It wasn’t the positive surprise a few
people were hoping for and there was no news on gasoline
prices.”  Petrobras fell 3.9 percent to 18.17 reais, the lowest since
November 2008. The stock has dropped 15 percent this year, more
than a 2.5 percent decline in Brazil’s benchmark  Bovespa (IBOV)  index.  Imported Gasoline  Petrobras has been selling imported gasoline at a discount
in Brazil because of a government policy to fix fuel prices as
it seeks to curb inflation. Foster, who became CEO in February,
said June 11 that the company doesn’t plan to increase gasoline
prices after the recent decline in international  oil prices   Exploration spending will rise 11 percent, the biggest
increase of any business unit, as Petrobras develops pre-salt
reservoirs that hold the largest discoveries in the Western
Hemisphere since  Mexico  discovered Cantarell in 1976.  “There were expectations that output would grow” at a
faster pace, Luiz Otavio Broad, an analyst at Agora CTVM SA
brokerage, said in a phone interview from  Rio de Janeiro . “It’s
negative.” Broad rates Petrobras buy.  In 2010 Petrobras bought rights from the government to
produce as much as 5 billion barrels of crude from fields
including Libra, the second-biggest discovery in Brazil,
increasing its exploration costs. The new plan will prioritize
oil and natural gas production in Brazil, Petrobras said in the
statement.  Asset Sales  Petrobras expects to raise $14.8 billion from the sale and
restructuring of assets, with a focus on foreign assets, the
company said. It plans to borrow up to $18 billion a year to
finance investments and it expects the Brent benchmark oil price
to trade within $90 to $100 a barrel through 2016, it said.  “If the crude price continues falling it will have less
money and everything will get delayed even more,” Juan Ramon Fernandez Arribas, an independent analyst based in  Madrid , said
in an e-mail. “This plan will devalue all the pre-salt
assets.”  Cash flow  for the five years through 2016 will be at $38
billion to $44 billion, depending on oil prices, Petrobras said.
Petrobras expects its debt to equity ratio to remain within its
target of 25 percent to 35 percent, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  