-- Philippine Peso Falls as Spain Concern Mounts
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-06-14T08:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/philippine-peso-falls-as-spain-concern-mounts.html
The  Philippine peso  advanced to the
strongest level in a month after April exports climbed more than
economists estimated.  Overseas shipments increased 7.6 percent from a year
earlier, a statistics office report showed today, exceeding the
median 0.5 percent gain forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The
currency strengthened for a third day before the central bank
unveils remittances data for April tomorrow. Funds sent home by
overseas Filipinos rose 5.4 percent in the first quarter,
outpacing the 5 percent growth predicted by the monetary
authority for 2012.  “The exports data was positive and some banks are
experiencing more inflows,” said Lito Mercado, head of trading
at  Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. (RCB)  in Manila. “The peso will
remain strong but will still be affected by events globally.”  The peso appreciated 0.2 percent to 42.558 per dollar in
 Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency touched
42.430, the highest level since May 11. Its one-month implied
volatility, a measure of  exchange-rate  swings used to price
options, increased 59 basis points, or 0.59 percentage point, to
7.09 percent, the highest level in more than a week.  “The uptick in exports is a welcome development,
especially given the uncertainties in other jurisdictions,”
central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in a mobile-phone
message to reporters. “We will continue with our policy of a
market-determined exchange rate, but we will maintain a presence
in the market to ensure there are no excessive movements.”  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept its benchmark  interest
rate  at a record-low 4 percent during a review today, a decision
forecast by 14 of 15 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. One
predicted a 25-basis-point cut.  The yield on the government’s 8 percent bonds due July 2031
increased six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 6.0
percent, according to prices from Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  