-- Philippine Airlines in Talks to Buy Foreign Carrier Stake
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-06-14T16:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/philippine-airlines-in-talks-to-buy-foreign-carrier-stake.html
Philippine Airlines Inc. (PAL)  is in talks
to invest in a foreign carrier as it seeks to expand operations
after winning investment from  San Miguel Corp. (SMC)   “There are several opportunities for PAL to acquire other
companies in the region,” President Ramon Ang told reporters in
Manila yesterday. “Yes, we’re in talks to invest in a foreign
airline,” he later said in a mobile-phone message.  Philippine Air plans to order at least 100 new planes in
the next five years, resume flights to Europe and bolster U.S.
services, Ang said in April. The company will be positioned as a
low-cost brand, he said yesterday as the carrier seeks to fend
off competition from  Cebu Air Inc. (CEB)  and other regional rivals.  “I can see the logic of buying a regional airline if it is
to expand their network and the brand and enhance the image,”
said  Jomar Lacson , an analyst at Campos Lanuza & Co. in Manila.
“There are several airlines in the region with problems which
PAL can buy at a discount.”  Philippine Air’s long-haul expansion plans depend upon the
nation improving safety standards, Ang said earlier this year.
The country is blacklisted by the European Union and has a
Category 2 rating from the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration ,
meaning it doesn’t meet international regulations.  San Miguel , which started as a brewer more than a century
ago before becoming the Philippines’ largest company by sales,
is evaluating about 10 deals “on the table right now,” Ang
said. It is also “seriously considering” investing in a
 broadcast network . The company’s appetite for acquisition is
“still quite strong” after investing $500 million in
Philippine Air, he said earlier.  $20 Billion  The company has expanded from food and drinks to industries
including oil, power and infrastructure to meet a target of
doubling sales. Its purchase of almost half of Philippine Air
and low-cost affiliate Air Philippines Corp. will boost San
Miguel’s sales this year to almost $20 billion, at least three
years ahead of target, Ang said.  Profit will rise this year helped by investments in new
businesses even as unit  Petron Corp. (PCOR)  may be “temporarily
affected” by declining oil prices, Ang said.  San Miguel plans to sell preferred shares in September and
may use the funds to buy the government’s shares in the company,
Ang said. The company has the option to buy back the
government’s 754 million preferred shares at 75 pesos each,
according to its 2010 annual report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  