-- Philips Starts Production of Imaging Systems at India Facility
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-06-14T15:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/philips-starts-production-of-imaging-systems-at-india-facility.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  has
begun production at a health-care facility in India, its first
in the country, to expand by offering lower-cost interventional
imaging systems.  The facility, 200 kilometers (124 miles) east of Mumbai,
will produce the imaging systems for cardiology and radiology
applications, mainly to serve smaller hospitals in the country
with limited budgets, Bert van Meurs, executive vice president
at Philips Healthcare, said in a phone interview today.  “We will continue to provide top hospitals in the cities
with our high-end equipment from Best, the Netherlands,” Van
Meurs said. “At the same time we will supply smaller hospitals
with machines from this facility in India which require less
complex products because the medical procedures at those places
are less complicated.”  Philips is looking to expand its health-care operations in
growth economies such as  India , China and  Latin America , at a
time when sales of its medical division are under pressure in
Europe and  North America . In 2011 almost 40 percent of the
Amsterdam-based company’s sales came from health-care.  The so-called “value segment” for interventional X-ray
systems now makes up for a small part of the total 2.6 billion-
euro market for those offerings, because the procedures require
trained medical personal, Van Meurs said. It will grow more than
15 percent a year, he predicted.  Philips has developed the facility since  buying  Alpha X-ray
Technologies and Meditronics in the country in 2008.  The company plans to ship some of the systems from the
India site to growth economies such as eastern  Europe  and Latin
America, Van Meurs said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  