-- Pimco Opens Long-Short Fund Under Ex-Catamount Manager
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-06-14T13:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/pimco-opens-long-short-fund-under-ex-catamount-manager-1-.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
the bond manager that in 2009 made a push into stocks, said it’s
opening its long-short equity fund to investors.  Pimco EqS Long/Short Fund (PMHIX)  aims to let investors participate
in the returns of long-term stock ownership while seeking to
limit losses when markets turn bearish by holding cash or
selectively betting against securities, according to a statement
today from the  Newport Beach , California-based firm.  Geoffrey Johnson, who joined Pimco in April from Catamount
Capital Management LLC, runs the fund, which uses the same
investment process as a hedge fund Johnson managed since 2003.
Long-short is the fourth equity strategy for Pimco, in addition
to “deep value” global stocks, emerging-market equities and
dividend-paying stocks.  “It brings a nice balance of  capital appreciation  and
capital preservation,” Johnson said in a telephone interview.
“We can smooth out some of the volatility that has been the
hallmark of the market for the past decade.”  The fund generally has long positions in about 20 global
stocks, Johnson said. Pimco EqS Long/Short Fund combines the
firm’s global macroeconomic views with stock-picking by its
portfolio managers.  Stock Expansion  Pimco, known for its bond funds run by  Bill Gross , began
expanding into other asset classes including stocks more than
two years ago to reduce its reliance on traditional fixed-income
products. The firm in December 2009 hired  Neel Kashkari , a
former U.S. Treasury official, to oversee the move into
equities.  Pimco has said it will pursue equity strategies with a
global focus, in line with its “new normal” philosophy adopted
in May 2009 to describe an era of lower returns, heightened
 government regulation , diminishing U.S. clout in the world
economy and a bigger role for developing nations.  “We look at the economy and see macroeconomic risks,”
Kashkari said in a telephone interview. “It’s critical to limit
the downside risks to generate good attractive returns.”  Pimco EqS Long/Short Fund trades under the symbol PMHIX and
has a management fee of 1.4 percent for institutional shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  