-- Pimco’s Kashkari Says Fed Likely to Ease Further With QE3
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-06-14T16:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/pimco-s-kashkari-says-fed-likely-to-ease-further-with-qe3.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Neel Kashkari said the  Federal Reserve  is likely to start a
third round of quantitative easing as  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s  Robert Doll  said the central bank will wait to see whether the economy
weakens more.  “The economy is slowing,” Kashkari, who heads global
equities at  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco, said today at
the Bloomberg Asset Management Summit in  Boston . Worsening
unemployment, lower equity prices and the risk of shocks coming
out of the euro region suggest the Fed will act, he said.  U.S. stocks rose today and the dollar weakened as reports
on inflation and jobless claims fueled speculation that the Fed
will discuss stimulus efforts at its meeting next week. Jobless
claims unexpectedly climbed by 6,000 to 386,000 in the week
ended June 9, the Labor Department said today. The  U.S. economy 
expanded at a 1.9 percent annual rate in the first quarter, the
Commerce Department reported May 31, down from its prior
estimate of 2.2 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.9 percent to 1326.07
at 11:40 am in  New York . The dollar weakened against 15 of 16
major peers.  Doll, who plans to retire as BlackRock’s chief equity
strategist, said regulators would have to see significantly
weaker economic growth or a “bust in the euro” before they act
to stimulate the economy with another round of bond purchases.  “QE3 is for an emergency,” Doll said today. “The Fed
wants us to know there is an insurance policy if we need it,”
he said.  Fed Stimulus  The U.S. financial crisis four years ago spurred the Fed to
revive the economy by purchasing $2.3 trillion of bonds from
December 2008 to June 2011 in two rounds of a tactic called
quantitative easing. The Fed is scheduled to buy as much as
$2.25 billion of Treasuries today due from February 2036 to May
2042 as part of Operation Twist, a program to replace $400
billion of shorter-term securities in its holdings with longer-
term bonds through this month to keep borrowing costs down.  The crisis in  Europe  will weigh on U.S. policy makers’
decision to further stimulate the economy, Kashkari said. It
will take “years, not months” to solve as Greece exits from
the euro region, Kashkari said.  Greece’s exit may not necessarily happen next week, after
the country’s elections, and the outcome for markets will
greatly depend on how orderly the process is, according to
Kashkari.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  