-- Occupy London Protesters Evicted From Final Protest Site
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   E r i c   B u r g
-- 2012-06-14T08:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/police-officers-move-to-evict-occupy-london-protesters-bbc-says.html
Police evicted the last Occupy
 London  campaigners from Finsbury Square near the city’s
financial district, eight months after the income inequality
demonstrations began in the U.K. capital.  As many as 100 officers were involved in the operation,
which followed a court ruling that the area must be returned to
community use. There were no arrests and no violent incidents
during the operation that began at about 1 a.m., said a
spokesman for London’s  Metropolitan Police Service .  “Today’s enforcement action was peaceful and low-key,”
said Paul Convery, the executive member for community safety
with the council for the borough of Islington where the camp is
located. “A number of homeless people have been living in the
square. We have been speaking to them and offering advice and
support.”  The Occupy Movement, which has spread to cities around the
world, began in  New York  in September when protesters took up
residence in a park to highlight Americans who suffered as banks
recovered from the 2008 global financial crisis. The non-
confrontational end to the London occupation contrasts with
cities like New York and Oakland,  California , where police in
riot gear confronted demonstrators.  Occupy London moved to Finsbury Square in north London last
October, extending protests that began outside  St. Paul’s
Cathedral .  City Costs  The occupation will cost Islington about 100,000 pounds
($155,000), including the legal action and restoring the square,
according to a statement from the borough. The last occupier had
left the square by about 3 a.m.  Hours after the removal, about 18 tents had been set up in
Shoreditch Park and three Metropolitan Police vans had been
dispatched to monitor the situation. The park is located in the
borough of Hackney adjacent to Islington.  A judge yesterday refused to give the protesters permission
to appeal a June 1 ruling that they must leave the site, Ranjit
Bhose, a lawyer for the borough of Islington where the camp is
located, said in an e-mail late yesterday.  Remnants of discarded tents, broken wooden pallets, traffic
cones, chairs, sheets of tarpaulin and other debris littered the
area between Old Street and Moorgate subway stations. Bloomberg
LP’s European headquarters are located on the square. Work to
clean and repair the public park has begun and the space, now
fenced off, will be reopened soon, the council said.  ‘Like Glastonbury’  “I sort of feel sympathy for them,” said  Rob Williams ,
who walks past the camp on his way to and from work. “I liked
it when it was green and you could sit on it. It looks like
Glastonbury now,” he said, referring to the famously muddy 
music festival in Somerset,  England .  The protestors said at a hearing earlier this month that of
the 99 people still at the Finsbury Square site, 88 were
homeless.  Occupy London protesters have cost the City of London and
its police about 1 million pounds in legal and monitoring
expenses, according to information obtained in a Freedom of
Information request by Bloomberg News.  The Islington authority served the protesters on May 11
with a legal notice of eviction from the site giving them until
May 18 to clear the square of tents and other temporary
structures. The process was halted during court challenges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Burg in London at 
 eburg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 