-- Portugal’s Nerve-Ruining Disease Kills From the Feet Up
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-06-14T20:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/portugal-s-nerve-ruining-disease-kills-from-the-feet-up.html
The patients are young adults, often
in their 30s. The disease, known as TTR-FAP, starts with
tingling in the feet. Then it moves up the body, destroying
nerves and killing within a decade.  Pfizer Inc., the world’s largest drugmaker, has a pill
called tafamidis meglumine that may stem the tide of the rare
genetic illness, keep patients’ bodies from wasting away and
give them a chance at a full life. TTR-FAP, or Transthyretin
Familial Amyloid Polyneuropathy, was first detected near a
village in Portugal, where it has ravaged families. Clusters
also have been found in  Japan  and  Sweden .  For the estimated 8,000 patients worldwide like 34-year-old
Kevin Mui, Pfizer’s medicine may be the best hope for a therapy.
In the three years since his symptoms surfaced, TTR-FAP has cost
him 100 pounds and most of his mobility. The disease killed his
mother and uncle at age 47. His brother, 45, also has it.  “We have this kind of magic number in our heads where we
wonder whether we’ll make it past our 47th birthday,” said Mui,
who was a technology analyst at the Bank of New York in
 Manhattan  before his illness forced him to stop working. “Even
though I saw my family members go through it, it was a surprise
how quickly it came on.”  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  is scheduled to
decide by June 16 whether to approve tafamidis. An approval
would make it the first drug for sale to treat TTR-FAP, which
New York-based Pfizer estimates affects 3,000 people in the U.S.  Pfizer  shares  gained 1.7 percent to $22.56 at 4 pm.  New
York  time.  Recommended Against  In a report dated May 24, the FDA said the studies didn’t
support approval “based on inadequate evidence of
effectiveness.” A panel of outside advisers voted 13-4 to
recommend the drug, saying data from Pfizer suggested a benefit.  The medicine was approved with the name Vyndaqel in
November in  Europe  where the disease is concentrated around the
Portugese town of Póvoa de Varzim. It was first described there
in 1952, and the largest treatment center is at a local
hospital. Póvoa de Varzim, once a fishing village, is now a
suburb about 30 kilometers (19 miles) north of Porto.  Around Póvoa de Varzim, as many as one in 1,000 people have
TTR-FAP. “In some regions, it’s not a rare disease,” said
Teresa Coelho, a doctor at Hospital Santo Antonio in Porto.
Coelho led the trials of  Pfizer’s (PFE)  drug at the hospital.  “It runs in families,” Coelho said in a telephone
interview. “If you are a carrier, the likelihood you will
develop the disease is very high.”  Lou Gehrig’s Disease  TTR-FAP resembles the better-known amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis, or  Lou Gehrig’s disease . It’s also a
neurodegenerative disease characterized by loss of use of the
limbs. TTR-FAP, though, often strikes people at younger ages
than ALS, which usually develops in 40- to 60-year-olds,
according to the  National Institutes of Health . TTR-FAP attacks
the digestive system while ALS patients often die from
respiratory failure.  In the Porto region, children of families with a history of
TTR-FAP have genetic testing at age 18, then counseling and
monitoring after that.  The signs are easy to identify. “One year they come in and
say, ‘I’m feeling something strange in my feet. I have neuralgic
pain, I can’t feel hot water the way I used to,’” Coelho said.  The loss of bowel control can force many to use a colostomy
bag. Eventually, they are paralyzed.  “What you have is a picture of progressive, relentless,
debilitating symptoms that invariably lead to death,” said
Ilise Lombardo, Pfizer’s lead clinical developer of the drug.  Protein Breaks Up  Pfizer’s pill targets transthyretin, a protein which
carries thyroid hormone and retinol. In those with the rare
genetic mutation that causes TTR-FAP, the protein breaks apart
and clumps into plaques called amyloids.  Toxicities from the plaque attack the body’s longest nerves
first. Patients lose sensation in their feet, genitals and
digestive system. To slow damage, Pfizer’s drug puts a lock on
the problem protein, stopping it from breaking apart and
reforming into the toxic clusters.  The current treatment is a  liver transplant  -- the organ
produces the problematic protein and a new one can extend
patients’ lives.  Alnylam Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALNY) , based in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , also has a drug in early trials.  Isis
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ISIS) , based in Carlsbad,  California , and London-
based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  have teamed to develop a treatment.  Analysts haven’t estimated a market for the medicines.
Pfizer declined to comment on its European or potential U.S.
sales.  Stop Production  The Alnylam and Isis therapies stop the production of the
transthyretin protein, said  Rodney Falk , director of Brigham and
Women’s Hospital’s program for  cardiac amyloidosis , a related
disease where patients’ heart muscles are damaged. The hospital
is based in  Boston .  “I don’t think they’re necessary rivals to tafamidis,”
Falk said in a phone interview. “My prediction is that none of
these drugs will be perfect, and we’ll end up using a
combination.”  Bill Hanshaw, 62, lives in Tallmadge,  Ohio , and was
diagnosed in 2007 -- older than many patients in  Portugal . He
retired onto disability because the disease has made work too
difficult. Like others, he has relatives who’ve died from TTR-
FAP.  “A lot of people were dying undiagnosed,” he said of his
family. Tipped off by a cousin about the family’s history, he
went for a test that confirmed TTR-FAP.  Hardens Heart  The plaque began to harden the walls of his heart, dropping
Hanshaw’s blood pressure and leaving him constantly short of
breath and fatigued. While he has nerve damage that makes
walking difficult, he was able to get into the trial for
tafamidis and said it’s stalled the progress of the disease.  “I watched my father slowly die. I watched my brother
slowly die. So I had an idea how this disease progressed,”
Hanshaw said. “As I looked at how I’ve progressed, my symptoms
have slowed down.”  Hanshaw’s family has been tested, and more than half of his
siblings have the gene. His children are luckier.  “My son and my two grandsons are OK,” Hanshaw said. “For
my family, it stops with me.”  Mui, the former New York analyst, said he’s hopeful
Pfizer’s drug can give him more time. “I have to just keep on
fighting and not give up.”  After his symptoms started, a test confirmed Mui had the
gene that causes the disease. He jogged and worked with a
trainer at the gym, trying to build up muscle and balance in his
legs. Three years later, he rarely gets around without a cane.  Mui does yoga and tai chi to help his balance. He gets
looks at the gym, after losing 100 pounds in the first year of
symptoms, leaving just 115 pounds on his 5-foot-11-inch frame.
He started a nonprofit called  “Living with Amy”  to raise
awareness about the disease.  “My friends are trying to figure out how they can help
me,” he said. “I have to keep being active to keep things
going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  