-- Pound Remains Lower After BOE Steps Up Crisis Response
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-06-14T20:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/pound-remains-lower-after-boe-steps-up-crisis-response.html
The pound remained lower versus the
euro after Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  disclosed
joint steps with the  Bank of England  to increase the flow of
credit amid a deteriorating outlook in  Europe .  The U.K. central bank will activate an unused plan to
inject at least 5 billion pounds ($7.8 billion) a month into the
financial system. Another plan will allow lenders to swap assets
with the central bank in return for money to be lent to
companies and households. The Treasury will indemnify the bank
for any losses.  Sterling weakened 0.3 percent to 81.18 pence per euro at
4:19 p.m. in  New York . The U.K. currency was 0.3 percent higher
at $1.5556 and down 0.2 percent to 123.44 yen.  The new measures were announced after record low official
interest rates and a so-called quantitative easing program
failed to bring down borrowing costs that lenders charge to
companies and households. The central bank has said the turmoil
in the euro area, Britain’s biggest trading partner, poses the
biggest risk to the economy and financial stability.  “We are not powerless in the face of the euro-zone debt
storm,” Osborne told financiers in his annual Mansion House
speech in  London  today. “The government -- with the help of the
Bank of England -- will not stand on the sidelines and do
nothing as the storm gathers.”  The plans mark a departure for the central bank, which has
so far resisted calls for targeted measures to boost lending to
the non-financial sector. Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker , a
contender to become governor when King’s term ends next year,
signaled this week that the bank had eased its stance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  