-- Pound Weakens Amid Speculation BoE to Boost Liquidity
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-06-14T10:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/pound-weakens-amid-speculation-boe-to-boost-liquidity.html
The pound declined against the
dollar and the euro amid speculation the  Bank of England  will
announce plans to boost liquidity among the U.K.’s lenders to
increase the flow of credit into the economy.  Sterling fell versus most of its 16 major peers as the
Financial Times reported that Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and the central bank may announce measures today. Gilts
fell for a fourth day after the Debt Management Office sold 1.5
billion pounds ($2.3 billion) of January 2060 bonds. Benchmark
interest rates have been at a record-low 0.5 percent since
policy makers cut them by 50 basis points in March 2009.  “The market is expecting some kind of liquidity measures
from policy makers after the cut in official base rates did
little to bring down borrowing costs in the real economy,” said
 Ian Stannard , the head of European currency strategy at Morgan
Stanley in  London . “Although such measures should benefit the
economy, people in the market speculate they might involve more
policy easing, which could be bad for the pound.”  The pound dropped 0.2 percent to $1.5528 at 11:24 a.m.
London time. It reached $1.5269 on June 1, the lowest in almost
five months. Sterling weakened as much as 0.3 percent to 81.21
pence per euro before trading at 80.97 pence.  The yield on 10-year  gilts  rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.77 percent, having risen 15 basis points
since June 8. The 4 percent bond due December 2022 slid 0.165,
or 1.65 pence per 1,000-pound face amount, to 119.885.  ‘Tight Credit Conditions’  Sterling has lost 2.6 percent in the past month, the worst
performance among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro lost 0.9
percent while the dollar gained 1.3 percent.  The three-month sterling Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of
banks’ reluctance to lend, is at 54.3 basis points today, within
six basis points from this year’s high reached in January.  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said on June 12
that U.K. officials may need to do more to ease credit
conditions and encourage lending as banks confront the mounting
debt crisis in  Europe . The central bank has said the turmoil in
the euro area, Britain’s biggest trading partner, poses the
biggest risk to the economy and financial stability.  “The banks themselves did not bring about the underlying
challenges facing the euro area,” Tucker said in a speech in
London. “Given the costs to our economy, the authorities,
including” the U.K. central bank, “need to consider what more
we could do to alleviate tight credit conditions in the U.K.”  Futures Bets  Futures traders have reversed their  bets  that the pound
will gain against the dollar, according to data from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the pound compared with those
on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 2,867 on June 5. That
compared with net longs of 1.475 a week earlier.  Today’s bond sale drew bids for 1.8 times the amount of
securities on offer. It was the first time the bond was tapped
through an auction after it was sold through banks in October
2009.  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday cut  Spain ’s credit
rating by three steps to Baa3, one level above junk, citing the
nation’s increased debt burden. Spain’s 10-year bond yield rose
to a euro-era record 6.998 percent today as the nation’s request
for aid for its banks fuels speculation the world’s 12th-biggest
economy may need a full rescue.  “As the debt crisis deteriorates further, the perception
of the pound as a safe haven from trouble there is called into
question as the  euro zone  is Britain’s major trading partner,”
Stannard said.  Gilts have outperformed German bonds in the past week, with
yield the difference between their 10-year securities narrowing
five basis points to 25 basis points.  U.K. government bonds have returned 1.4 percent this year,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analyst Societies. Bunds advanced 2.5
percent and Treasuries gained 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  