-- Qatar Mall Fire Caused by Faulty Wiring in Nike Store, QNA Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-06-14T06:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/qatar-mall-fire-caused-by-faulty-wiring-in-nike-store-qna-says.html
A Qatar shopping-mall fire that
killed 19 people last month was caused by faulty electrical
wiring in a Nike store, the committee charged with investigating
the blaze said in a  release  posted on the website of state-run
Qatar News Agency.  There was a “lack of adherence to laws, systems and
measures by all concerned parties” and the Villaggio mall,
Qatar’s biggest, had no early warning systems, according to the
release. The committee said safety deficiencies extend beyond
the mall to other buildings that are “not adhering to the laws
and measures regarding safety and fire-fighting.”  The May 28 blaze killed 13 children and four teachers who
were trapped in a child-care facility near the Nike store. Two
firefighters also died. The victims, who came from countries
including  New Zealand ,  Spain ,  Japan ,  South Africa  and the
 Philippines , had to be pulled from a hole knocked in the roof of
the mall. The first wasn’t reached until two hours after the
fire started, according to the release.  The child-care facility, called Gympanzee, wasn’t a
licensed nursery and didn’t abide by the “necessary safety
conditions,” according to the release.  The fire has raised questions about public safety in the
Persian Gulf emirate, the world’s richest country per capita,
with a population that has more than doubled in the past decade.  Five Detained  Qatar’s public prosecutor ordered the detention of five
people, including the mall’s owner, manager and the owner of the
child care center, Qatar News Agency said May 29.  The six-year-old Villaggio mall is designed to resemble an
Italian village, complete with canals and gondolas, as well as
an amusement park, ice rink and cinema. The daycare facility was
located in the middle of the mall, accessed through two narrow
and winding hallways and up a flight of stairs.  The committee has issued 11 recommendations to prevent or
reduce risk of similar incidents, according to the release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  