-- Queen Bees, Mentors and the Female Boss Problem: Diane Brady
-- B y   D i a n e   B r a d y
-- 2012-06-14T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/queen-bees-mentors-and-the-female-boss-problem-diane-brady.html
Female Bosses. They’re a type,
aren’t they? At least that’s what dueling research findings seem
to suggest.  You either get the ones who hang with their sisters at some
women’s conference and then offload a project to run home to
their kids, or some alpha female whose stiletto seems aimed at
kicking you back down the career ladder.  If they work in a male-dominated industry, they benefit
from more slack than guys when it comes to making
mistakes, according to research by Christian Thoroughgood of
 Pennsylvania State University . Linguistics expert Judith Baxter
has discovered they’re not even funny: More than 80 percent of
quips from senior women were met with silence in her research,
while 90 percent of the men’s jokes got an immediate laugh.  And working for a female boss if you’re a woman? Don’t get
the experts started, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in the June
18 edition.  Women with female bosses report more headaches and anxiety
than those who report to men, a  University of Toronto  study
concluded. German researchers found they suffer higher levels of
depression. Maybe that’s because female bosses direct their
hostility toward other women more than 70 percent of the time,
according to the Workplace Bullying Institute, while men are
more inclined to make everyone feel miserable.  Then again, consultants Jack Zenger and Joseph Folkman 
surveyed 7,280 leaders last year and found women notably better
at mentoring, motivating and driving for results. Put them in
charge, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  has found, and other
women in the company end up making more money.  Better Mentors  Now comes a June 12 study from Catalyst, a nonprofit group
that focuses on expanding opportunities for women in business.
As part of its ongoing study of 742 MBA grads, it found that
women are not only better than men at helping others -- women
and men -- move up the ladder, but those who sponsored or
developed others earned an additional $25,075 in compensation
from 2008 to 2010. Moreover, 73 percent of those are especially
inclined to help women, while only 30 percent of the men were.  The goal of this study, says Catalyst Chief Executive
Officer Ilene Lang, is to “prove the value of paying it
forward” and thereby debunk the queen bee stereotype that
female bosses generally set out to undermine female underlings.  “There is this myth out there that women don’t help other
women and are a factor in holding them back,” Lang says.  Rational Fear  So does this undermine new research from Olin Business
School professor Michelle Duguid finding that women who are
surrounded by male colleagues when they reach senior management
are less inclined to help female newcomers? Perhaps.  Maybe there’s a rational fear of appearing to show
favoritism when you’re the only woman sitting at the table. It’s
a concern that anyone in a visible minority would likely have
when another member of their group comes on the scene.  With women so underrepresented in the senior ranks of
business, it’s no wonder the female boss’s mysterious DNA is so
prodded and picked apart. As the numbers increase, researchers
may find they’re surrounded by nurturers, queen bees and other
types that display the same breadth of leadership qualities as
do the men who fought so hard to get there.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Beucke at   dbeucke@bloomberg.net  