-- Quest Surges on $25.50-a-Share Buyout Offer, Tops Insight
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-06-14T20:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/quest-receives-25-50-a-share-buyout-offer-topping-insight-s-bid.html
Quest Software Inc. (QSFT) , a maker of
tools to help companies manage computer systems, rose above a
new $25.50-a-share cash buyout offer from a strategic bidder
that topped a previous agreement with Insight Venture Partners.  The shares increased 9.2 percent to $26.06 at the close in
 New York , for the biggest gain since May 9, when Quest said it
got alternative buyout proposals after reaching a deal to be
acquired by Insight for $23 a share in March. The  stock  has
climbed 40 percent this year.  Aliso Viejo , California-based Quest said on March 9 it
agreed to be acquired by Insight for $23 a share, and didn’t
name the new bidder in a statement today. Two months later,
Quest said it received several other proposals during a so-
called “go-shop” period that it anticipated would lead to a
superior offer.  “The likely outcome here is Quest gets sold at $25.50,”
said Brian Freed, an analyst at Wunderlich Securities in Denver,
in an interview today. “You might see Insight raise its bid to
match, but I really don’t see a bidding war here.”  Tracy Benelli, a Quest spokeswoman, and Blair Flicker,
Insight Venture Partners general counsel, didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment.  Dell Inc. (DELL)  was in discussions to buy Quest, though
negotiations broke down, a person familiar with the matter said
on June 1.  David Frink , a Dell spokesman declined to comment.  Dell is the unidentified strategic bidder that offered to
buy Quest by topping Insight’s proposal, Reuters reported today,
citing people familiar with the matter.  ‘Increased Competition’  “There’s a sense of urgency at Dell that the PC business
has limited life as a valuable segment because of increased
competition in that business and that it needs to diversify with
companies like Quest software,” said  Shebly Seyrafi , an analyst
with FBN Securities in New York, in an interview today.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. has said Quest is worth about $28,
based on the software provider’s sales and cash flow, and could
attract bids from International Business Machines Corp., Dell or
private-equity firms.  Ed Barbini , an IBM spokeman, declined to
comment on Quest.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  might also be interested in Quest, said
Seyrafi. Carol Sato, an Oracle spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  