-- Rain, Pests Imperil India’s Wheat Crop as Warehouses Full
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-06-14T06:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/rain-pests-imperil-wheat-crop-in-india-as-warehouses-overflow.html
India , the world’s second-biggest
wheat producer, risks losing more than 6 million metric tons of
grain to rain and pests as the country lacks warehouses to
stockpile crops that have risen to records for six years.  Wheat is kept in the open across markets in north India as
state granaries are overflowing with about 82 million tons of
rice and wheat, Food Minister K.V. Thomas said in an interview
in New Delhi. A group of ministers will soon consider the sale
of about 13 million tons of wheat and rice to the poor and in
the open market at subsidized rates, and discuss steps to boost
exports to create room for newly harvested crops, he said.  Efforts to draw down stockpiles may boost shipments from
India, adding to global supplies and extending the biggest slide
in food prices in two years as measured by the  United Nations ’
Food & Agriculture Organization. Overflowing granaries may
hasten a plan to enact a law to guarantee food grain to 64
percent of India’s  1.2 billion  people, where the  World Bank  says
more than 75 percent of the people live on less than $2 a day.  “Grains kept unscientifically are susceptible to damage,”
Thomas said yesterday. “Earlier also, some quantities were
under unscientific storage, but not to this extent as seen this
year. An expert team has already gone to the states to look into
what has to be done so that there is no damage.”  State reserves  of food grain almost quadrupled to 82.4
million tons as of June 1 after the nation harvested record
wheat crops starting in the 2006-2007 season. The government,
the single biggest buyer of food crops in the country, purchases
grain at guaranteed rates from farmers to sell to the poor.  ‘It Will Rot’  “There won’t be any problem of storage if the government
distributes the food grains at reduced prices,” said Biraj
Patnaik, principal adviser to the country’s  Supreme Court  on
food issues. “It will rot after monsoon rains start if
government does not act fast.”  The June-to-September rainy season typically  blankets  the
entire country by July 15. The onset of monsoon over the
mainland in southern Kerala state was delayed by four days this
year, according to the  India Meteorological Department .  The government will immediately evacuate about 6.6 million
tons of wheat kept in the open, enough to meet  Japan ’s annual
demand, Thomas said. Additional warehousing capacity of 15.1
million tons will be added in the year ending March 31, he said.  A rebound in global wheat production and a slump in prices
have thwarted India’s efforts to boost exports after the country
lifted a four-year ban on shipments in September, said Atul Chaturvedi, chief executive officer of Adani Wilmar Ltd.  ‘Time Bomb’  “With rains round the corner, I think they are sitting on
a time bomb with such a huge stockpile of wheat,” he said.
“They have to incentivize and get rid of the stockpile through
exports. Otherwise, they will ultimately end up having a much
bigger problem.”  Wheat for December delivery was little changed at $6.5925 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 11:46 a.m. in Mumbai.
The most-active price has gained 1 percent this year.  Wheat stockpiles climbed to an all-time high of 50.2
million tons as of June 1 from 37.8 million tons a year earlier,
according to the Food Corp. of India. Rice inventory was 32.15
million tons, compared with 27.64 million tons a year earlier,
it said. The stockpile also included 94,000 tons of so-called
coarse cereals.  The wheat crop will probably reach 90.2 million tons in the
year to June 30, up from 86.9 million tons a year earlier, while
the rice harvest may gain to a record 103.4 million tons from 96
million tons, according to the farm ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  