-- Rand Weakens First Day in Three as Stocks, Metal Prices Decline
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-06-14T15:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/rand-weakens-first-day-in-three-as-stocks-metal-prices-decline.html
The rand weakened for the first time
in three days as metal prices and stocks fell after  Spain ’s
borrowing costs rose, fueling concern the euro-area debt crisis
is worsening.  South Africa’s currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 8.4119
per dollar as of 4:28 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on the
nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 fell five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 7.56 percent.  Spain’s borrowing costs rose to a euro-era record today
after its  credit rating  was lowered three steps to Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service yesterday. Greece holds elections this
weekend that may determine whether it stays in the euro zone.
The euro area is South Africa’s biggest regional trading
partner, buying a fifth of the nation’s exports.  “ Risk aversion  remains the order of the day ahead of the
much-anticipated Greek election,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in
e-mailed comments.  A benchmark index of  emerging-market stocks  declined as
much as 0.8 percent.  South Africa ’s benchmark stock  index 
dropped as much as 1.1 percent, led by commodity exporters
including Anglo American Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd, as the prices
of metals including copper fell.  The rand stayed weaker after more Americans than forecast
applied for unemployment insurance payments last week, and
consumer prices in the world’s biggest economy fell by the most
in more than three years.  With the U.S. economy slowing and inflation cooling, the
 Federal Reserve  may have more flexibility to take further action
to bolster growth. The rand may pare its decline if stimulus
measures boost riskier assets, Guma said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  