-- Reed Smith, BuckleySandler, Nelson Mullins: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/reed-smith-buckleysandler-nelson-mullins-business-of-law.html
Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom
LLP represented Upsher-Smith Laboratories Inc., which agreed to
buy  Proximagen Group Plc (PRX) , a U.K. biotechnology company pursuing
treatments for central nervous system diseases, for as much as
356.8 million pounds ($554.7 million).  Skadden’s  London  mergers and acquisitions partners included
Michael Hatchard and Scott Hopkins. Corporate finance partners
David Goldschmidt in New York, and  Jim McDonald  in London,
worked on the deal, as did London partners Clive Wells, banking
and Tim Sanders, tax.  Proximagen received legal advice from Reed Smith LLP. The
Reed Smith team was led by London partner Giles Beale and
included London corporate partner James Wilson. Assistance on
the deal also came from London partners Caspar Fox, tax; Jeremy
Glover, benefits; and George Brown, litigation.  Sidley Austin LLP advised lender JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Sidley partners included Zulfiqar Bokhari and Howard J. Waterman, global finance, Stephen Blackshaw, corporate and
securities, and Kevin R. Pryor, tax.  Travers Smith provided additional legal advice to Upsher-
Smith, Skadden said. The firm didn’t respond to a request for
information about the partners involved.  Upsher-Smith, based in Maple Grove,  Minnesota , will pay 320
pence a share in cash for London-based Proximagen, the companies
said in a statement yesterday. Proximagen holders can receive
additional payments of as much as 192 pence a share in cash or
loan notes if two experimental drugs meet certain goals, the
companies said.  For more, click here.  News  Former Dewey Partner Sues Firm Leaders for Fraud  Former Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP partner Henry Bunsow is suing
the leaders of his bankrupt firm, including ex-chairman  Steven Davis , for committing fraud by lying about the firm’s finances.
The American Lawyer first reported the suit yesterday.  Filed in  San Francisco  Superior Court, Bunsow accused firm
leaders of running a  Ponzi scheme  and committing fraud when they
began recruiting him in 2010 to join the firm. He said they
relied on financial numbers provided to The American Lawyer
magazine to convince him of the financial health of the firm.  In the suit filed by lawyers at Lynch, Gilardi & Grummer,
PC, Bunsow names  Jeffrey Kessler , Joel Sander, Stephen DiCarmine
and James Woods, along with Does as defendants. In the
complaint, he said firm leaders came up with “a scheme to get
plaintiff and other lateral partners to advance their payment of
capital knowing full well that such capital would never be
repaid.”  Bunsow, formerly at Howrey LLP, another big firm that
closed, started at Dewey in January 2011. He left last month,
with a group of lawyers to start Bunsow & DeMory in San
Francisco, according to press reports.  DiCarmine declined to comment through a lawyer, while the
others didn’t respond to a request for comment, The American
Lawyer reported.  The firm filed for bankruptcy May 28. The firm, based in
New York, listed debt of $245 million and assets of $193 million
in a Chapter 11 filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  The case is Bunsow v. Davis, 12-cv-521540, California
Superior Court, (San Francisco).  Rebekah Brooks Case Sent to Crown Court for June 22 Hearing  Rebekah Brooks, the former head of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s British
publishing unit, who is being advised by the London law firm
Kingsley Napley and the barrister  Hugo Keith , made her first
court appearance to face charges she tried to cover up the
tabloid phone-hacking scandal.  Brooks, 44, had her case transferred to a higher criminal
court by Judge Howard Riddle at a hearing yesterday in London.
The next hearing in the case will be at Southwark Crown Court on
June 22.  Brooks was charged last month with conspiracy to pervert
the course of justice. Prosecutors said she conspired to
“remove seven boxes of material from the archive of News
International” and “conceal documents, computers and other
electronic equipment,” from police investigating phone hacking
and bribery of public officials by the News of the World and the
Sun tabloids.  Brooks’s husband, Charlie; her personal assistant, Cheryl
Carter; the former head of security at News International, Mark
Hanna; Brooks’s chauffeur, Paul Edwards; and former News
International security guard Daryl Jorsling, were also charged
in the cover-up.  None of the defendants, who are free on bail, commented at
the hearing.  Nigel Pilkington , of the  Crown Prosecution Service , said
the defendants must inform officers from the Metropolitan
Police’s Operation Weeting if they are planning any foreign
travel. Brooks isn’t allowed to contact Carter, Edwards, Hanna
or Jorsling directly under her bail conditions, including by
text message or through social-networking websites, Pilkington
said.  The charges against Brooks, which relate to events from
July of last year, are the first in the expanded police
investigation into phone hacking. The charge, which can be
related to destroying evidence or deliberately misleading a
court or investigation, carries a maximum sentence of  life
imprisonment , according to prosecutors.  For more, click here.  Moves  BuckleySandler Adds Former Civil Chief to U.S. Attorney’s Office  Andrew W. Schilling, former chief of the civil division of
the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of  New
York , is joining BuckleySandler LLP as a partner in New York.  As chief of the civil division, Schilling supervised 57
Assistant U.S. Attorneys in eight specialized units, one of the
largest civil divisions in the country, the firm said in a
statement. He established the office’s new civil frauds unit,
which investigates and prosecutes complex financial fraud cases,
including  mortgage fraud  and health care fraud cases.  Schilling’s hire follows the firm’s announcement that
Thomas A. Sporkin, chief of the Office of Market Intelligence at
the Securities and Exchange Commission, will also join the firm.  “As financial services and other corporate entities
continue to grapple with increased scrutiny and regulations, it
is important for our clients to have a team with broad
experience in defending against complex enforcement and criminal
prosecutions working on their behalf,” Andrew L. Sandler,
BuckleySandler chairman and executive partner, said in a
statement.  BuckleySandler started in March 2009 with approximately 40
attorneys. The firm now has over 150 attorneys in Washington,
 Los Angeles  and New York.  Cadwalader Financial Services Partner Moves to WilmerHale  Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP announced that
Drew G.L. Chapman has joined the firm’s New York office as a
partner in the securities department and investment management
group and head of the alternative investment practice.  Chapman joins the firm from Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft
LLP, where he was a partner in the financial services practice.  His practice focuses on the alternative investment, asset
management, and financial services industries, in which he has
transactional, structuring and fund formation experience. He has
worked with some of the leading hedge funds and hedge fund
service providers throughout his 15 years of private practice in
New York.  “We are pleased to welcome Drew to WilmerHale,” said
Robert Novick, co-managing partner of the firm. “Drew will act
as a core investment management partner to our New York office.
The transactional services that he provides compliment the
manner in which we currently represent our hedge fund and
alternative asset management clients in this growing market.”  WilmerHale has 1,000 lawyers with offices in 12 cities in
the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Nelson Mullins Hires Two Corporate Partners in Boston  Two partners focused on corporate and technology clients
have joined the Boston office of Nelson Mullins Riley &
Scarborough LLP from separate firms.  Juan Marcelino, previously at Greenberg Traurig LLP,
focuses his practice on securities enforcement matters,
representing corporate entities, officers and directors in
matters involving, among others,  insider trading , financial
reporting, offering fraud, and other securities law violations.  James P. O’Hare, previously at K&L Gates LLP, represents
technology-based companies, their boards of directors, and
investors in the areas of general corporate matters, mergers &
acquisitions, dispute resolution and public and private
financings.  Nelson Mullins opened its Boston office in 2006 and has 37
attorneys and other professionals providing legal services. The
firm has more than 430 attorneys and government relations
professionals with offices in Atlanta; Boston; Washington;
Nashville, Tennessee; Tallahassee, Florida; West Virginia; North
Carolina and South Carolina.  Mills & Reeve Appoints New Insurance Partner to Head Practice  Mills & Reeve LLP announced that Kate Archer has joined the
firm in its Birmingham, England, office, where she will lead the
development of its casualty capability in the firm’s insurance
practice.  Archer was previously with DAC Beachcroft Slp, the firm
said. She specializes in catastrophic injury work and has
experience in a range of casualty work.  “We are delighted to welcome Kate to head our casualty
unit. Insurance is a key strength of the firm and, under Kate’s
leadership, our casualty team will further enhance our ability
to service clients,” said Guy Hodgson, national head of
insurance disputes at Mills & Reeve.  Mills & Reeve has 98 partners and over 360 additional
lawyers at six offices in England.  Litigation  Gupta Prosecutors, Defense Trade Critiques in Summations  Rajat Gupta  “abused” his role as a director at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Procter & Gamble Co. by leaking secret tips
to an associate, a prosecutor said during summations in Gupta’s
federal insider-trading trial.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Tarlowe told jurors in
Manhattan federal court that there is “overwhelming evidence”
Gupta passed secret information to Galleon Group LLC co-founder
Raj Rajaratnam, the hedge fund manager now serving an 11-year
prison sentence for insider trading.  “Gupta abused his position as a corporate insider by
providing secret information,” Tarlowe said. Those leaks
allowed “Rajaratnam and his criminal associates at Galleon” to
make millions of dollars through illicit trades, he said.  In the defense summation, attorney  Gary Naftalis  decried
the lack of “real, hard, direct evidence” in the U.S. case.  “The prosecution failed here to prove that Mr. Gupta acted
knowingly and willfully and with any specific intent to
defraud,” he said in a conversational tone that contrasted with
Tarlowe’s fiery closing.  Gupta, 63, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, is on
trial for allegedly leaking secret tips to Rajaratnam, 64, about
New York-based Goldman Sachs and Cincinnati-based Procter &
Gamble. He left the Goldman Sachs board in 2010 and the P&G
board last year.  Naftalis said at the start of his summation that he would
prefer to sit down with the jury “as people” and simply
discuss the case. “Regrettably, the rules don’t permit that,”
he said.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 