-- Related, Wilpon Agree With NYC on Plan for Willets Point
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-06-14T16:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/related-wilpon-agree-with-nyc-on-plan-for-willets-point.html
Willets Point, an area near the  New
York Mets ’ ballpark filled with auto shops and junkyards, would
be redeveloped under an agreement announced today between  New
York City  and developers Related Cos. and Sterling Equities Inc.  Under the plan, the companies would build stores and
entertainment attractions on both sides of Citi Field in Queens,
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said in a statement. The project also
calls for the cleanup of 23 contaminated acres (9 hectares) in
Willets Point, with the city providing almost $100 million for
demolition, remediation and infrastructure.  “Today the Valley of Ashes is well on its way to becoming
the site of historic private investment, major  job creation  and
unprecedented environmental remediation,” Bloomberg said in the
statement, referring to the ash dump described by  F. Scott Fitzgerald  in his 1925 novel “The Great Gatsby.”  The mayor is counting on New York-based Related and
Sterling, controlled by Mets owner  Fred Wilpon , to upgrade a
longtime eyesore. Bloomberg’s administration has been battling
business owners in the 61-acre Willets Point area who have
resisted attempts to buy them out. The city has made progress in
negotiations with those operators and now has agreements to
acquire about 95 percent of the land needed for the project,
according to the statement.  Retail, Entertainment  The city needs to update its environmental impact statement
and amend its zoning plan for the area before the development
could go ahead. The first step of the project would be the
cleanup of the 23 acres, said Jen Freidberg, spokeswoman for the
city’s Economic Development Corp.  In the first building phase, part of the parking lot west
of the stadium would be converted to a 1 million-square-foot
(93,000-square-meter) retail and entertainment center with more
than 200 stores, plus movie theaters and restaurants. A 200-room
hotel and 30,000 square feet of retail would be constructed
across 126th Street east of the ballpark, an area now lined with
auto shops and small businesses.  The plan also calls for a “public recreation zone” that
may include such facilities as soccer fields, basketball courts
and an ice-skating rink, according to the mayor’s statement.  Later development east of the ballpark would include 2,500
housing units, 900,000 additional square feet of retail, 500,000
square feet of offices and 280 more hotel rooms.  The total project would involve $3 billion of private
investment, according to the statement.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
the parent company of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  