-- Renesas Rises on Report of $630 Million Loan: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-06-14T08:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/renesas-rises-after-report-of-50-billion-yen-loan-tokyo-mover.html
Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  surged in
Tokyo trading after the Mainichi newspaper said the world’s
biggest maker of microcontrollers for cars is in final talks to
borrow 50 billion yen ($630 million) from its major lenders.  The chipmaker rose 15 percent to 316 yen at the close on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange, while  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average fell 0.2 percent.  The company’s three biggest  shareholders  --  Mitsubishi
Electric Corp. (6503) ,  NEC Corp. (6701)  and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  -- will guarantee
loans from its banks, including  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306)  and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , the Mainichi newspaper
reported, citing an unidentified person. Kawasaki, Japan-based
Renesas will also have a commitment line for more than 50
billion yen in additional loans, the newspaper said.  “The report eases some concerns about the company, as it
may get support from its shareholders,” said  Mitsushige Akino ,
who oversees about $600 million at Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co. in Tokyo. The rally may be short-lived, he said.  Yoichi Kobayashi, a spokesman for Renesas, declined to
comment.  “The current troubles at Renesas aren’t just a problem for
us, but for Japan’s automakers as well,” Kunihiko Onuma, head
of Hitachi’s automotive systems unit, told analysts and
reporters today in Tokyo. “We’ve strongly told Renesas
management that they need to act to survive.”  Japanese carmakers will lower their reliance on Renesas
chips, he said.  Survival Value  Renesas is worth keeping afloat, Japanese Bankers
Association Chairman  Yasuhiro Sato  said at a regular press
conference today. Sato, who is also chief executive officer of
Mizuho, declined to comment on bank support for the chipmaker.  “Nothing has been decided,” NEC said in a statement to
the stock exchange. Atsushi Konno, a spokesman for Hitachi, also
said no decision has been made and declined to comment further.
Mitsubishi Electric has no comment, said a spokesman, who
declined to be named.  Renesas was formed in 2010 after the merger of money-losing
chipmakers Renesas Technology Corp., a venture between Hitachi
and Mitsubishi Electric, and NEC Electronics Corp. The new
company has lost money every year since.  The chipmaker’s semiconductors are used in products from
automobiles to consumer electronics for tasks including
triggering air bags in cars and controlling  DVD players . The
company’s  customers  include Apple Inc. and Sony Corp., according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  