-- Renewable Energy Systems May Buy Shares in Offshore Wind Parks
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-06-14T15:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/renewable-energy-systems-may-buy-shares-in-offshore-wind-parks.html
Renewable Energy Systems Ltd., a
U.K. clean-power developer, may buy stakes in offshore wind
projects as European governments seek to attract investment into
the industry to curb  carbon emissions  and secure supply.  “Our participation in investment in offshore projects in
the future is an interesting area strategically that we’ll look
to get into,” Chris Morgan, chief executive officer of the
company’s RES Offshore unit, said in an interview in London.  European countries are seeking to boost offshore wind even
as they struggle to finance power-generating turbines, which
cost about 3 million pounds ($4.7 million) a megawatt to build.
The U.K. plans to lure pension and insurance money, after Danish
and Dutch retirement funds took stakes in wind parks.  RES Offshore offers development, engineering, construction
and project management services for wind farms at sea, as well
as project operations and maintenance, Morgan said. “In due
course we’d very much like to be an investor in projects,” he
said, with the company taking minority stakes in ventures.  The RES unit has won the rights to develop a 500-megawatt
offshore wind park off the coast of Brittany with Iberdrola SA
and its other developments include working with U.K. utility
 Centrica Plc (CNA)  on a 4.2 gigawatt project in  the Irish Sea .  The industry has potential beyond the balance sheets of
utilities and will need other investors, Morgan said. The U.K.
plans 18 gigawatts of capacity by 2020 and  Germany  10 gigawatts.
 France  began a 6-gigawatt program rolled out in the next decade.  RES, based in Hertfordshire,  England , is also interested in
developing offshore wind in the U.S., which currently hasn’t any
turbines at sea, Morgan said. The company has delivered more
than 6.5 gigawatts of wind power in the U.K., Ireland, France
and Scandinavia and owns 750 megawatts of onshore generation.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  