-- Roche’s Zelboraf Fails to Win U.K. Drug-Cost Agency Backing
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-06-15T13:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/roche-s-zelboraf-fails-to-win-u-k-health-cost-agency-s-backing.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Zelboraf skin-
cancer treatment failed to win the backing of the U.K. health-
cost agency, and German regulators said the drug’s side effects
reduced its benefit to patients.  The  National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence ,
or NICE, didn’t back the Roche drug even after the Swiss company
offered to cut Zelboraf’s price.  Zelboraf costs about 1,750 pounds ($2,720) a week in the
U.K. Also known as vemurafenib, the melanoma drug is among the
new medicines Roche is counting on to boost growth as sales slow
for its tumor drug Avastin.  “Vemurafenib is an expensive drug, and its long-term
benefits are difficult to quantify,” NICE Chief Executive
Officer Sir  Andrew Dillon  said today in an e-mailed statement.  The Roche drug’s long-term impact on survival was uncertain
because many patients taking dacarbazine, an older drug, in a
study were shifted onto other therapies such as Zelboraf when
their disease worsened, NICE said. That made a comparison
difficult, the U.K. health-cost agency said.  Side Effects  Taking Zelboraf’s side effects as well as its benefits into
account, the new drug showed an indication of a considerable
benefit to patients versus the older therapy dacarbazine,
 Germany ’s IQWiG drug-review panel said in a statement today. The
agency said Zelboraf’s side effects prevented it from getting a
higher rating of additional patient benefit.  NICE advises the U.K. state-run  National Health Service  on
which treatments represent value for money. Zelboraf won
European approval in February, and a diagnostic test is
available to identify which patients are most likely to benefit
from the drug. The drug was approved in the U.S. in August and
competes with  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Yervoy.  Germany’s Federal Joint Committee will use IQWiG’s
recommendation to make a final ruling on its benefit for
patients, a key step in negotiating the price of new drugs in
that country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  