-- Truckers as Leading Indicator Show Stable U.S. Economic Growth
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/truckers-as-leading-indicator-show-stable-u-s-economic-growth.html
Rising truck shipments show the U.S.
economic expansion is intact, even amid concerns that a slowdown
in retail sales and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis could stall
growth.  Two measures of trucking activity signal the industry
remains steady and has even “firmed up” since mid-May,
according to Ben Hartford, an analyst in  Milwaukee  with Robert
W. Baird & Co. The data complement anecdotal information from
carriers that freight demand ended May on a strong note after
more weakness than anticipated earlier in the month, he said.  “Trucking trends are reflective of an economic environment
that is stable, not deteriorating,” Hartford said.  The for-hire truck-tonnage index rose 2.8 percent in April
from a year earlier, up from 0.2 percent the prior month,
marking 29 months of growth, based on data from the American
Trucking Associations. The economy has never contracted without
tonnage turning negative first, so the truck figures are a
leading indicator, providing the “first signal” of a slump,
said Thom Albrecht, an analyst in Richmond,  Virginia , with BB&T
 Capital Markets .  His “buy” recommendations include  Celadon Group Inc. (CGI) ,
 Swift Transportation Co. (SWFT)  and  Old Dominion Freight Line Inc. (ODFL)   Another index that tracks the movement of goods between
manufacturers and consumers also is a “good barometer” of the
economy, said Jonathan Starks, director of transportation
analysis at FTR Associates. FTR’s index of U.S. truck loadings
increased 3 percent to 115.9 in April from a year earlier, the
highest since 2008, based on data from the Nashville, Indiana-
based transportation-forecasting company.  Not Stalling  April’s improvement suggests the economy is expanding.
“It’s not red-hot, but it’s not stalling, either,” Starks
said, adding that annual gains above 5 percent would suggest
robust activity. Index growth exceeded 5 percent between July
2010 and March 2011, the data show, while gross domestic product
expanded an average 2.9 percent year-over-year in the same
period.  Contacts at trucking companies describe a “seasonally
stable demand environment,” Hartford said. Albrecht agreed,
saying two carriers characterized activity in early June as
“robust.”  These anecdotal “channel checks” are consistent with
sentiment reported by  Landstar System Inc. (LSTR)  in its mid-quarter
update, Albrecht said. The Jacksonville, Florida-based trucking
company affirmed on May 29 its second-quarter earnings estimate
of 71 cents to 76 cents a diluted share. This compares with
first-quarter earnings of 57 cents a share.  ‘As Forecasted’  Both the economy and the operating environment for Landstar
are “pretty much as forecasted,” moving “in a northerly
direction, albeit in a slow and sometimes choppy pace,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Henry Gerkens said on a
conference call that day.  Landstar reiterated its guidance even as U.S. retail sales
weakened. A  0.2 percent  drop in May matched an April decline
that previously was reported as a gain, based on data from the
Commerce Department. This prompted some economists -- including
those at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and Credit
Suisse AG -- to cut forecasts for second-quarter growth.  The sequential declines are “consistent with retailers’
broader concerns about consumer demand and validate cautious
recent inventory strategies among retail and consumer
shippers,” Hartford said.  Greek Exit  There also are “clouds of global economic uncertainty”
hanging over the industry that could cause activity to falter,
he added, with the possibility of a Greek exit from the euro
area contributing to doubts about the future of  Europe ’s
monetary union.  There occasionally have been “head fakes,” such as
between November 1995 and September 1996, when annual tonnage
was negative and the economy didn’t enter a recession, Albrecht
said. Still, industry data and anecdotal comments from carriers
-- both of which “have a good track record of signaling
downturns or upturns” -- are “remarkably consistent in
demonstrating slow but steady economic growth,” he said.  Further, forecasts for FTR’s loadings index suggest
activity will return steadily to 2007’s pre-recession levels by
late 2014, Starks said. The index has risen 12 percent from a
16-year low of 103.5 in December 2009, six months after the 18-
month slump ended, the data show.  “We probably won’t get a new peak for another couple
years,” Starks said. “But the data is clearly showing that
we’re also not entering any sort of recessionary environment at
the moment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  