-- Rumsfeld Says Treaty Would Force U.S. to Share Wealth
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-06-14T20:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/rumsfeld-says-treaty-would-force-u-s-to-share-wealth.html
Former Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld  urged U.S. senators to reject the Law of the Sea Treaty
backed by the Obama administration because it would force rich
countries to give to poorer ones.  “I do not believe the  United States  should endorse a
treaty that makes it a legal obligation for productive countries
to pay royalties to less productive countries, based on rhetoric
about the common heritage of mankind,” Rumsfeld said today in
testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  The Obama administration says ratifying the 30-year-old
treaty is key to exerting U.S. influence in the Asia-Pacific
region, a focus of the revamped global strategy the Pentagon
presented in January. Rumsfeld’s position puts him at odds with
President Barack Obama and also former President  George W. Bush ,
whom Rumsfeld served as secretary of defense for six years.  He resigned in 2006 amid a political backlash against the
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.  Rumsfeld, 79, said in his testimony that a system of
royalty payments under the  United Nations  treaty compels
countries such as the U.S. to make payments to  developing
countries  without making their own “sovereign choice.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , Defense Secretary Leon Panetta and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman General Martin Dempsey all appeared before the Senate panel last month, urging
ratification of the treaty. The administration says the accord
is needed to counter China and maintain influence in Asia.  Business Support  The treaty was signed in 1994 by President  Bill Clinton  and
subsequently endorsed by Bush. It has twice failed to win Senate
ratification due to opposition from some conservatives who
pressed the argument on sovereignty that Rumsfeld voiced today.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce supports the treaty, as do
companies including  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
Business supporters say the treaty offers a stronger legal
foundation for activities such as offshore oil drilling, metal
harvesting and undersea cable operations.  Rumsfeld’s criticism centered on the treaty’s creation of
an International Seabed Authority that would be involved in
commercial activity in international waters, including mining
and gas exploration.  The U.S. would have to transfer to the authority a big
share of all royalties generated by U.S. companies. He said the
system could set a precedent for outer-space resources in the
future.  ‘Enormous Consequences’  “This, in my view, is a new idea of enormous
consequence,” Rumsfeld said. “It establishes a way of looking
at industry, investment, talent, risk and good fortune that
argues in favor of distributing a significant portion of the
value of minerals in the deep sea beds to developing
countries,” he said.  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman  John Kerry , a
Massachusetts Democrat, rejected the notion that the authority
is an “out of control” entity and said there are numerous
misperceptions about its structure.  “It’s totally separate from the United Nations,” he said.  Kerry has said he’ll wait until after the November
elections to advance the treaty, which also is supported by the
committee’s top Republican, Senator  Richard Lugar  of Indiana.  Underscoring the political sensitivity for Republicans,
Lugar lost his May Republican primary to Indiana state Treasurer
Richard Mourdock after facing criticism for past votes,
including his leading role in pushing a treaty with Russia
through the Senate in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  