-- Russia’s GDP Grew 4.9% in First Quarter, Matching First Estimate
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-06-14T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/russia-s-gdp-grew-4-9-in-first-quarter-matching-first-estimate.html
Russia ’s  economy  grew last quarter
at the fastest pace since the three months ended September 2011
as retail sales outweighed slower production in mining.  Gross domestic product expanded 4.9 percent from the same
period last year after rising 4.8 percent in the fourth quarter,
the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said in an e-mailed
statement today. That matched its first estimate on May 15.  The world’s biggest energy exporter is growing “above
potential” and is on target to expand about 4 percent this year
and next, the  International Monetary Fund  said yesterday.
President  Vladimir Putin  is counting on domestic demand to
balance shrinking sales in Russia’s biggest trading partners,
the European Union and  China .  “We’re seeing a fairly comfortable picture,” Vladimir Pantyushin, a Moscow-based economist at  Barclays Capital , said
by phone before the release. “Consumer demand is growing and
investment has been more or less fine.”  Retail and wholesale trade grew 9.1 percent in first three
months from a year earlier, while manufacturing expanded 3.5
percent and mineral extraction rose 2 percent, the service said.
Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said today GDP expanded 4 percent
in the period.  Putin, who was inaugurated for his third term in the
Kremlin on May 7, has said growth must reach at least 6 percent
annually to turn the economy into one of the world’s five
largest by purchasing power by 2015.  The economy grew at an average annual rate of 7 percent
during Putin’s first two terms, from 2000 to 2008. before
plunging 7.8 percent in 2009. The government reduced its
projection for economic growth this year to 3.4 percent, from
3.7 percent, because investment will be weaker than initially
estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  