-- Russia Leaves Rates Unchanged to Gauge Inflation Risk
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-06-15T07:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/russia-to-leave-interest-rates-unchanged-to-gauge-inflation-risk.html
Russia ’s central bank kept its key
policy rates unchanged unchanged for a sixth month and lowered
the cost of currency swaps to improve access to ruble liquidity.  Bank Rossii held the  refinancing rate  at 8 percent, a
quarter point off the record low, according to a statement
posted on the regulator’s website today. That was in line with
the forecasts of 19 of 20 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . The
overnight auction-based repurchase  rate  stays at 5.25 percent
and the overnight deposit  rate  will be kept at 4 percent.  The world’s largest energy exporter is the last of the BRIC
group of the biggest emerging economies to leave rates unchanged
this year. China, India and  Brazil  have eased borrowing costs to
stimulate growth as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens to derail the
global economy. Cutting the rate on ruble currency swaps to 6.5
percent from 8 percent will limit money-market volatility,
according to Bank Rossii.  “Given the current domestic and external macroeconomic
trends, the present level of money-market rates is seen as
appropriate for the coming months,” the central bank said in
the statement. The decision is “neutral” for the regulator’s
monetary-policy stance, it said.  Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev this month reiterated
his forecast for inflation to stay below this year’s target of 6
percent, even as delayed utility-tariff increases in July spur
price growth. Consumer prices rose 3.7 percent as of June 9 from
a year earlier, up from May’s record low of 3.6 percent, Bank
Rossii said today.  Ruble Pares Gains  The ruble pared gains against the dollar, trading 0.5
percent stronger at 32.4477 by 11:18 a.m. in Moscow after the
decision. The Russian currency was gaining as much as 0.9
percent in earlier trading. The Micex Index kept its advance,
adding 0.9 percent to 1,358.39 and heading for the strongest
close since May 12.  The ruble depreciated 12 percent against the dollar last
month, the most among more than 20 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg and the sharpest drop since January 2009,
prompting the central bank to intervene by  selling  foreign
currency for the first time since January.  ‘Not Negligible’  “Risks of a quick acceleration in the second half on the
back of tariff hikes and now pass-through from the weaker ruble
are not negligible,” Societe Generale SA analysts led by
Vladimir Kolychev, director of research at the French lender’s
OAO  Rosbank (ROSB)  unit in Moscow, wrote to clients yesterday.  Traders are betting that three-month  interest rates  may
rise as much as 26 basis points, or 0.26 percentage point, up
from eight basis points the day before the last rates meeting on
May 10, according to forward-rate agreements tracked by
Bloomberg.  A sustained 10 percent drop in the ruble may boost
inflation by a percentage point, though the increases would be
spread over time, Ignatiev said June 6, citing independent
research. Policy makers are focused on risks that price growth
will accelerate in the second half, according to Ignatiev.  “There is no rationale for the central bank to tighten
policy, and it’s too early to ease,” Alexey Pogorelov, an
economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Moscow, said by e-mail.
Bank Rossii “will keep its policy stance neutral, as long as
medium-term inflation risks prevail over a potential slowdown in
economic activity.”  Gross domestic product unexpectedly quickened in the first
quarter, expanding 4.9 percent from a year earlier. Decelerating
industrial output in April “isn’t indicative of rising risks of
an economic slowdown,” the central bank said.  “For them, I think growth remains a secondary indicator,”
Vladimir Pantyushin, chief economist at  Barclays Capital  in
Moscow, said by phone yesterday. “They’re looking mostly at the
 exchange rate , at liquidity in the banking sector, and naturally
at inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  