-- Russia Must Cut Break-Even Oil Price to $80, Citigroup Says
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-06-14T15:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/russia-must-cut-break-even-oil-price-to-80-citigroup-says-2-.html
Russia  must lower the average oil
price it needs to balance the budget by more than 30 percent to
attract investors and reduce risk, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “It’s not impossible,”  Kingsmill Bond , chief strategist
at Citigroup Inc. in Moscow, said in an interview today. “It
would massively reduce risks for Russia, and actually Russia
will truly become one of the world’s most attractive markets.”  The government should cut spending to balance the budget at
$80 a barrel compared with about $117 now, Bond said. Urals
crude, Russia’s main export earner, is trading at an average of
$113.76 a barrel this year. Citigroup lowered its 2012 estimate
for the dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  by 20 percent to 1,600
after paring its 2013 Brent oil estimate to $99 from $120.  Russia’s central bank has urged the government to curb its
oil dependence. The price the 2012 budget is based upon is “too
high,” Alexey Ulyukayev, Bank Rossii’s first deputy chairman,
said in an April 18 interview.  Russian equities  trade  at the cheapest valuations among 21
 emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg, reflecting concern that
the country is too reliant on oil. About 50 percent of
government revenue comes from energy exports. The Micex Index
was little changed at 1,346.04 by the close in Moscow.  Restraint ‘Unlikely’  “Until the oil price falls, the government is highly
unlikely to do much to seek to restrain expenditure,” Bond
said. Crude will drop to an average price of $80 a barrel over
the next five years, he said.  Russia’s construction, real-estate, healthcare and banking
stocks will gain from declining oil prices over the next decade
as investors focus on companies that benefit from local growth
rather than commodity prices, according to Bond.  The  economy  grew 4.8 percent in the first quarter, the
fastest pace since the three months ended September 2011, the
Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Stock valuations will be boosted by wider foreign
participation as the Micex-RTS Exchange debuts a central
securities depositary in July, spurring liquidity by allowing
investors such as U.S. pension and mutual funds to trade, Bond
said.  Moscow’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  trades at 4.9 times estimated
earnings, 50 percent  less than the valuation for  shares in the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That discount won’t narrow while  Europe ’s debt crisis drags on,
Bond said.  Apartment Searches  “Russia is a very attractive story, but there’s still so
much global uncertainty,” he said.  “To overcome that, we need
more than a quite-good reform story.”  Vladimir Putin  returned to the Kremlin as president this
year after four years as prime minister on promises of political
reform, state asset sales and higher pensions and salaries.
Privatizations have yet to begin, while police searched the
homes of opposition leaders before a protest march on June 12.  Higher social outlays will bring a 4.8 trillion-ruble ($160
billion) jump in spending through 2018, according to Capital
Economics Ltd.  “Very, very powerful, centrally directed” reforms are
needed, Bond said. “Clearly we aren’t going to get that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  