-- S&P Seven-Day Alternation Shows Tug of War
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2012-06-14T21:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/s-p-seven-day-alternation-shows-tug-of-war-technical-analysis.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
posted the longest streak of alternating up and down days since
October, a sign that stock bulls and bears are in a “tug of
war,” according to Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  The benchmark measure for U.S. equities hasn’t posted back-
to-back gains or losses since June 6. The stretch of alternating
up and down days matched the seven-day span that ended on Oct.
20, which was the longest since the eight-day streak in July,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The fluctuation came after a 9.9 percent decline from this
year’s peak in April pushed the S&P 500 below its 200-day moving
average for the first time since December. The index has since
rebounded 4 percent from the June 1 low and stayed above its
200-day threshold for seven days.  “We are at the tug-of-war point here,” Ari Wald, a New
York-based technical strategist at  Brown Brothers , said in a
telephone interview. “This is investor indecision as bulls and
bears wage a war at this important support level. Neither bears
nor bulls are taking control.”  Equities swung between gains and losses as optimism about
further stimulus from central banks and concern over  Europe ’s
debt crisis dominated the market. The S&P 500 rose 1.1 percent
today, following yesterday’s 0.7 percent retreat, amid reports
central banks may take steps to help economies battered by
Europe’s debt crisis.  Investor ‘Confusion’  There is “lots of confusion,” Roger Volz, a technical
strategist at BGC Partners LP in New York, wrote in an e-mail.
Investors are “awaiting resolution and would go with the
direction,” whenever a key support or resistance level is
broken, he said.  Wald at Brown Brothers said current market conditions look
similar to those a year ago, when a drop from an almost three-
year high on April 29 took the  S&P 500  close to its 200-day
average in June. The initial rebound was followed by eight days
of alternating gains and losses through July 21. The subsequent
advance was then followed by a 17 slump through Aug. 8, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sentiment indicators have yet to show signs of extreme
pessimism during the S&P 500’s retreat since April, suggesting
there is room for bears to push the market lower, Wald said. A
lack of pessimism is considered a contrarian indicator by some
analysts who follow charts to make predictions, because
investors who haven’t sold stocks may have the power to drive
the market lower.  A measure of bearish sentiment tracked by Brown Brothers
reached 42 percent, short of the 50 percent threshold that Wald
considers bullish. It got as high as 63 percent in 2011 and 57
percent in 2010.  “I don’t think there is enough pessimism out there just
yet,” Wald said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  