-- Sarkozy Enters Post-Elysee Life Facing Possible Investigations
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-06-14T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/sarkozy-enters-post-elysee-life-facing-possible-investigations.html
Former French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who’s going back to practicing law, may spend much of
his time in the months ahead defending one person: himself.  Only the second French president to not win re-election,
Sarkozy’s immunity ends tonight, opening the door for his
questioning as a witness or a target in allegations ranging from
illegal campaign financing to two-decade-old kickbacks.  “Mr. Sarkozy has to be a little concerned once he loses
his immunity of being hauled before the courts,” William Keylor, a professor of modern French history at  Boston
University , said in a telephone interview.  With questions involving  L’Oreal SA (OR)  heiress  Liliane Bettencourt , a French submarine sale to Pakistan and funds from
late Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi , Sarkozy, 57, is likely to
remain in the limelight he sought to avoid after being defeated
in the May 6 election. Before the vote, he said he would quit
politics if he lost. He has since found an office in the chic 8th
arrondissement of Paris and begun hiring staff for a return to
practicing law.  Sarkozy’s office and lawyer didn’t return calls and e-mails
requesting comment on the end of his immunity.  His predecessor,  Jacques Chirac , was the first to test the
immunity provided to the head of state by the French
Constitution. A 1999 Constitutional Council ruled he was
shielded from answering questions while he served his term, with
his immunity expiring a month after leaving office.  ‘A Precedent’  French courts showed they meant business, trying and
convicting Chirac once his immunity ended. He got a suspended
jail sentence in December for corruption during his time as
Paris mayor, a post he held from 1977 until 1995.  Chirac “does establish a precedent,” Keylor said.  For Sarkozy, the case Keylor calls “the big one” involves
Bettencourt, who according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index 
is  France ’s richest woman. Judges in Bordeaux are looking into
allegations that her former financial adviser gave cash
illegally to Sarkozy’s party treasurer in 2007 for his
presidential bid. Many of the allegations were made by
Bettencourt’s former accountant,  Claire Thibout .  The judges are looking into whether Bettencourt -- who’s
under the care of her family since a court last year said the
89-year-old was no longer able to manage her own affairs -- was
manipulated by her entourage.  What began as a family affair has spiraled into a political
scandal after secret recordings of Bettencourt talking to her
advisers were published in 2010. Judges have charged and jailed
her former financial adviser, holding him since March to answer
questions on what he did with cash withdrawn from Bettencourt
accounts around the 2007 French presidential vote.  ‘Very Implicated’  While the judges don’t have any evidence directly against
Sarkozy, “it is indispensable that he be heard because he’s
very implicated in this affair,” said  Antoine Gillot , lawyer to
the former accountant.  Lawyers for the former financial adviser, Patrice de
Maistre, didn’t return calls for comments on the status of the
investigation.  Sarkozy has denied getting illegal campaign contributions,
saying on April 3 on Canal Plus television channel that
“there’s not a penny whose origin is unaccounted for.”  He acknowledged knowing Bettencourt and her family, saying
they were long-time residents of his town of Neuilly and “of
course” he’s met them, adding “what’s the problem?”  A related case involves a probe into whether France’s
intelligence service was used to spy on reporters of the
newspaper  Le Monde  to determine the source of their stories
linking Sarkozy’s administration to the Bettencourt case.  ‘Karachi Affair’  Another investigation looming on the horizon is the so-
called Karachi Affair. Investigating judges are looking into
whether money from bribes to secure submarine sales to  Pakistan 
in the 1990s returned to France via kickbacks to fund the failed
1995 presidential bid of then-Prime Minister Edouard Balladur.  Sarkozy was Balladur’s budget minister and campaign
spokesman. Charged in the case are two of Sarkozy’s friends --
one a witness at his 2008 wedding to  Carla Bruni  and the other a
former adviser to him at the budget ministry. Prosecutors began
investigating the case after 11 French military engineers were
killed in a May 2002 bomb attack in Karachi.  The Le Figaro newspaper reported in June 2009 that
prosecutors concluded the attack was linked to then-President
Chirac’s decision to cancel secret payments agreed under his
predecessors to middlemen who brokered the contract.  Opened Breach  Sarkozy is likely also to face questions about an April
press report based on a letter suggesting Qaddafi offered to
fund his 2007 campaign. He called the story “a set-up.” The
Libyan National Transitional Council called the letter a fake.  Presidents are fair game Chirac’s trial showed, said  Robert
Zaretsky , a European history professor at the  University of
Houston .  “A breach has been opened in that wall,” he said.  There’s nothing to suggest that investigators or courts,
would be as “extraordinarily lenient” with Sarkozy as they
were with Chirac, he said.  Prosecutors trod lightly in part because of 79-year-old
Chirac’s ill-health, for which he was excused from the trial.
The former president was also one of France’s most popular
politicians after he left office in 2007.  “An avuncular figure,” Chirac “wasn’t necessarily
respected but he was liked,” Zaretsky said.  In contrast, Sarkozy was reviled by the time he became the
first president since Valery Giscard d’Estaing in 1981 to lose
re-election. Also, the investigations, especially related to
Bettencourt, are much more advanced than the allegations that
dogged Chirac in his second term. Additionally, some of the
cases touch Sarkozy’s activities while he was head of state.  Sarkozy “is an extremely divisive figure, unlike Chirac,
and one wonders how the magistrates will handle” him, Zaretsky
said. “There is something far more brutal and blunt and direct
in the accusations against Sarkozy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  