-- Senate Panel Tells Labor Agency to Settle Media Dispute
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-06-14T22:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/senate-panel-tells-labor-agency-to-settle-media-dispute.html
A U.S. Senate committee directed the
Labor Department to settle a dispute with news organizations
over proposed changes to the way journalists report economic
data.  The Senate Appropriations Committee, in adopting a measure
today to set the department’s budget for next year, told
officials to “collaborate with the news media in developing a
revised policy that responds to the reasonable concerns of both
the department and the news media.”  The provision, adopted without debate, may increase
pressure on the agency to revise or rescind a proposal to
require journalists reporting monthly jobs statistics and other
economic data to use government computers and other equipment.
The administration said in April it would no longer let
journalists use their own equipment when they are given early
access to financial data to prepare stories.  The changes are needed to prevent market-sensitive
information from leaking out early, the administration said.
Officials said reporters sometimes used electronic equipment
that violated security protocols. Bloomberg News and other media
organizations have opposed the changes as an infringement on
press freedom.  The two sides have been negotiating changes to the plan
though no conclusion has been reached.  Representative Darrell Issa yesterday pressed the Labor
Department to review its security procedures. He said a
technology-consulting group that examined the way the agency
releases data wasn’t allowed to examine all potential security
shortcomings.  Sandia Laboratories  The government-run Sandia National Laboratories “was
prevented from examining the full scope of the department’s
handling of economically significant data,” Issa, a California
Republican and chairman of the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee, said in a June 12 letter to Labor Secretary
Hilda Solis.  Issa’s letter to Solis demanded a copy of Sandia’s analysis
by June 26. Stephen Barr, a Labor Department spokesman, said the
agency is reviewing Issa’s request. Barr said Sandia was told to
look at Labor Department procedures regarding print reporters
because “that was the focus of concerns and complaints and the
Sandia review was limited to the print media.”  The new policy would change a longstanding practice that
allows news organizations to use their own computers, phone and
data lines to file and transmit stories about  unemployment 
figures, consumer prices and other data from so-called lock-ups
at the Labor Department. The department said it wanted to
implement the new policy by July 6.  Early Access  Agency officials told Issa’s committee on June 6 that the
changes were based on Sandia’s recommendations. The
administration said it wants to continue giving reporters early
access to the data to ensure their stories are accurate. Some
lawmakers questioned why journalists should see the figures
before the public.  Requiring journalists to use government-provided software,
hardware and dedicated lines would inhibit journalistic
independence, Rick Blum, coordinator of the Sunshine in
Government Initiative, wrote May 8 in a letter to Solis. “As
the government grows more concerned about  cyber security , the
proposed policy would create a single point of failure,” he
wrote.  The news media initiative’s members include the American
Society of News Editors, the Online News Association and the
Society of Professional Journalists. A representative of
Bloomberg News testified at Issa’s hearing on the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  