-- Serbia’s Tadic Says Politicians Must Compromise to Form Cabinet
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-06-14T14:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/serbia-s-tadic-says-politicians-must-compromise-to-form-cabinet.html
Serbian politicians must reach a
compromise in talks to form a new government after inconclusive
elections last month, said former president and  Democratic Party 
leader  Boris Tadic .  Tadic’s party, which placed second on May 6, agreed with
the third-place Socialists to form a coalition that would
control 111 of the legislature’s 250 seats. The former head of
state has been holding talks to find a third partner to give the
group a majority before an end-August deadline to create an
administration. If a government isn’t approved by the that time,
fresh elections will be held.  The talks “are tough because it’s difficult to establish a
majority in a parliament that has 46 parties,” Tadic told
reporters in Belgrade today. “People need to make a compromise
and that’s tough.”  Serbia  needs to form a government quickly to ease concern
over its fiscal outlook as the economy teeters on the brink of
recession, according to  Fitch Ratings . The country’s three-
member Fiscal Council, which monitors budget performance, warned
on May 30 about a looming debt crisis after the budget gap rose
to 7 percent to 8 percent of gross domestic product and public
debt approached 50 percent of GDP.  IMF Talks  A new government also needs to resume talks with the
 International Monetary Fund  over a suspended $1.3 billion
precautionary loan arrangement earlier this year when it became
clear the country would slip on agreed fiscal targets that
include keeping a full-year gap under 4.25 percent of GDP.  The Socialists oppose Serbia’s recognition of Kosovo, the
breakaway province which unilaterally declared independence in
2008. Their leader Ivica Dacic said June 11 his party would turn
to Nikolic’s Progressives if talks with the Democrats fail.  The Socialists, once led by former strongman  Slobodan
Milosevic , are looking for a broader coalition to include the
 Liberal Democratic Party , which calls on Serbia to recognize the
reality of Kosovo’s independence, and the United Regions of
Serbia, a group led by  Mladjan Dinkic , who has held the posts of
the economy minister, finance minister and central bank governor
since Milosevic’s fall in 2000.  Tadic’s Democratic Party, which dominated the previous
government, removed Dinkic in February 2011 following his
criticism that the Cabinet led by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic
was no longer following his authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  