-- Shell Concerned After French Guiana Drilling Permits Halted
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-06-14T10:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/shell-concerned-after-french-guiana-drilling-permits-halted.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
biggest oil producer, said it’s “obviously concerned” at
reports France suspended drilling permits for French Guiana.  Ecology Minister Nicole Bricq suspended permits to drill
off the coast of the overseas region of France, citing the risk
to the environment, Agence France-Presse reported yesterday.
Shell,  Total SA (FP)  and  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  are targeting about 1.4
billion barrels of resources in French Guiana offshore blocks.  “We are aware of the view of the Ministers of Ecology and
Industry and we will be discussing this situation further,”
Patrick Romeo, Shell’s country chairman for France, said in an
e-mailed statement. “As a major investor in the French Guiana
Exploration project, we are obviously concerned but we
anticipate a satisfactory solution.”  Tullow, which opened a new oil frontier with the Zaedyus
discovery off the northeast coast of  South America  last year,
had planned to drill the Zaedyus-2 appraisal well in the third
quarter and the Dasypus-1 well in the fourth alongside its
partneres. Both Shell and Tullow declined to comment if drilling
would be delayed.  “Following the basin-opening Zaedyus discovery in French
Guiana in September 2011, a drillship has been contracted by the
joint venture to commence a comprehensive exploration and
appraisal programme in June,” Tullow said May 16.  The partners spent more than $250 million last year
drilling the Zaedyus-1 offshore well, which found light and
heavy oil. Tullow in March increased the estimate for the
field’s gross reserves to 840 million barrels of oil equivalent
from its September forecast of 700 million barrels in the
 Demerara Plateau’s Eastern Slope  frontier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  