-- California Hedge Fund Is Latest Europe Crisis Casualty
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-06-14T16:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/sinclair-to-liquidate-hedge-fund-after-lacking-edge.html
Hedge-fund manager Paul Sinclair is
the latest casualty of  Europe ’s sovereign-debt turmoil, almost
six thousand miles away from the epicenter of the crisis.  Sinclair, who is based in  Los Angeles , is liquidating his
$458 million health-care equities fund,  Expo Capital Management
LLC , after more than five years, as political decisions made on
the other side of the globe have undermined his stock picks and
spurred losses for a second year.  “I don’t have an edge on Greek elections, the Spanish
banking system, what the  European Central Bank , the
 International Monetary Fund , the Chinese government,  Angela
Merkel , or the U.S. Federal Reserve will do,” he said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Sinclair, 41, said that over the past year he’s found it
increasingly difficult to make money because of the
macroeconomic environment, and that investing in health care
since 2004 has left him “physically and mentally exhausted.”
He said he chose to return money to investors, which he plans to
do by the end of the month, rather than hold cash and charge
them fees.  Billionaire energy trader  John Arnold , former Morgan
Stanley co-president Zoe Cruz, and Duke Buchan III are among
managers who have shuttered hedge funds in the past year as
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis has roiled global markets. The
industry last month posted its biggest loss since September as
stocks slumped on concern  Greece  may exit the euro and the
global economy is weakening.  ‘Tricky Markets’  “It’s a confluence of tricky markets, super-cautious
investors and a tough fundraising environment that’s making it a
difficult time for hedge-fund managers,” said Steven Nadel, a
partner at New York-based law firm Seward & Kissel LLP, which
advises hedge funds.  Sinclair said he has most of his liquid net worth invested
in his fund and was no longer comfortable putting it at risk
when markets are subject to the actions of policy makers
globally.  He said he plans to spend the rest of the summer sleeping
and relaxing and may take up a new hobby, according to a June 9
e-mail he sent to clients. Sinclair said he would continue to
follow the health-care industry and is keen to see how it is
shaped by a U.S. Supreme Court decision on President  Barack
Obama ’s health law overhauls and the November presidential
elections.  Returning client money “is an unusual move but fair and
would be welcomed by investors,” said Graziano Lusenti, founder
of Nyon, Switzerland-based Lusenti Partners, which advises
clients on investing. “Most hedge funds would try to hold onto
the money for as long as they can.”  Liquidations Rise  Liquidations in the hedge-fund industry rose to 775 last
year, the most since 2009, according to Hedge Fund Research
Inc., a Chicago-based research firm.  Fortress Investment Group LLC, based in New York, last
month said it will liquidate its $500 million commodities fund
run by William Callanan after losing almost 13 percent in the
first four months of the year.  Arnold also said the same month that he plans to close
Centaurus Energy Master Fund in Houston. Cruz, the former Morgan
Stanley executive, is liquidating her $200 million hedge fund
after losing 8 percent last year.  Buchan, a New York-based hedge-fund manager, cited the
 European debt crisis  as one of the reasons behind the closing of
his equity hedge fund Hunter Global Investors LP.  “Markets seem to be driven more by the latest news out of
Europe than by a company’s earnings prospects,” he said in a
Dec. 8 investor letter. “We have not weathered the ensuing
volatility well.”  Moore Traders  At least three hedge funds run by former Moore Capital
Management LLC traders have shuttered in the past seven months
after losing client money. They are Salute Capital Management,
run by Lev Mikheev, Avesta Capital Advisors LLC, founded by
William Tung and  Tim Leslie ’s JCAM Global fund.  Sinclair’s Expo Health Sciences Fund lost about 6 percent
this year through May, after falling 8.7 percent in 2011, the
hedge fund’s first year of negative returns, he said in an e-
mail. The fund has returned about 50 percent since its 2007
inception, net of fees.  Hedge funds  slumped 2.9 percent in May and 1.3 percent this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They lost 5.8
percent last year and a record 19 percent in 2008, the data
show.  Market Correlation  The turmoil in the global markets has spurred stocks across
industries to rise and fall in tandem. The relationship between
price fluctuations for health-care stocks and the rest of the
market has tightened. The 30-day correlation coefficient between
the MSCI World Index and its members in that industry is 0.92,
compared with the average since 1995 of 0.73, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Readings of 1 mean prices are moving in
lockstep.  Sinclair employed a seven-person team with offices in  San
Francisco . Before he started his hedge fund, Sinclair worked at
Vantis Capital Management LLC, a hedge fund in  Pasadena ,
 California , where he managed a health sciences fund from about
two years until the end of 2006, when the firm shut down. He was
previously at Merrill Lynch & Co., within the bank’s health-care
investment banking group, and before that at investment bank
Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette.  Sinclair received a masters of business administration from
Stanford Graduate School of Business in 1999 and graduated with
a bachelors degree in business economics from the  University of
California  in 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  