-- Singh Doubles Tax-Free Bonds in Blow to Projects: India Credit
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-06-14T07:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/singh-doubles-tax-free-bonds-in-blow-to-projects-india-credit.html
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
drive to double tax-free bond sales risks a glut that will make
infrastructure borrowers pay a premium over government debt for
the first time, according to  India ’s biggest underwriter.  Top-rated National Highways Authority of India and Indian
Railways each plan to sell 100 billion rupees ($1.8 billion) by
March and may pay as much as 25 basis points more than benchmark
rates, according to Axis Bank Ltd. National Highways last sold
the notes in January to yield 8.2 percent, or about 7 basis
points less than 10-year sovereign debt, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Borrowing costs for AAA rated Chinese companies
 average  4.86 percent, according to Chinabond indexes.  India’s government is pushing state-run borrowers to sell a
record 600 billion rupees of tax-free notes this fiscal year to
revitalize economic growth, which was the slowest in nine years
in the first quarter. Singh outlined proposals last week to put
$6.3 billion into port projects and build 9,500 kilometers
(5,904 miles) of roads in the coming year as part of India’s
plans to spend about $1 trillion on infrastructure by 2017.  “If the entire amount of tax-free bond supply is to be
absorbed, it will have to be at a significant spread,”
Parthasarathi Mukherjee, Mumbai-based president of treasury and
international banking at Axis, said in a telephone interview
June 11. “The rate outlook doesn’t suggest a sustained drop in
benchmark rates.”  Growth Constraint  Lack of adequate infrastructure in  Asia ’s third-largest
economy is a constraint to India’s growth, Finance Minister
 Pranab Mukherjee  said in his annual budget speech to parliament
on March 16, when he announced the increased issuance of the
bonds, which exempt buyers from taxation on interest payments.  “Investors want to cover risks from fundamentals and
market developments,” K. Ramanathan, chief investment officer
in Mumbai at ING Investment Management Pvt., a unit of the
largest Dutch financial services company, said in a telephone
interview June 8. “Tax breaks and other such options can help
issuers ensure availability of funds.”  India last year built an average 4.5 kilometers of roads a
day against a target of 20 kilometers, according to a
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP study. The national highway system, a
predominately two-lane network linking major cities, carries 65
percent of India’s freight and 80 percent of passenger traffic.  National Highways’ finance chief J.N. Singh in  New Delhi 
could not be reached on his cell phone. Indian Railway Finance’s
Managing Director Rajiv Datt didn’t respond to two calls to his
office in New Delhi.  Bond Quota  “The parameters for us and investors have changed alike
from our last issuance, as we have to take into account
developments like firm inflation, a weakening rupee, and the
fiscal situation,” Hari Das Khunteta, finance director of Rural
Electrification Corp., a lender to power projects, said in a
telephone interview from New Delhi on June 12. “The cost of
tax-free bonds will differ from last time as they have to
account for the present macro-economic conditions.”  The company hasn’t decided on the timing of its tax-free
issuance this year, he said. The government will allow power
companies, including Rural Electrification, to sell 100 billion
rupees of the debt by March.  The borrower paid a yield of 7.93 percent on 10-year notes
and 8.12 percent for 15-year debt when it raised 30 billion
rupees in March.  India’s rupee weakened 8.7 percent in the fiscal year that
began April 1, the worst performance among Asian currencies. The
rupee dropped 0.1 percent to 55.75 per dollar at 12:52 p.m. in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation Quickens  The government today said inflation accelerated to 7.55
percent last month from 7.23 percent in April and 6.89 percent
in March. The median estimate of 37 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was 7.5 percent.  Elsewhere in the markets, yields on 10-year  government
bonds  have dropped 17 basis points since April 17 when the
 Reserve Bank  of India lowered the benchmark  interest rate  to 8
percent. The yield on the 8.79 percent note due November 2021
was little change at 8.29 percent today, according to the
central bank’s trading system.  The extra yield investors seek for top-rated corporate
five-year rupee debt compared with similar-maturity government
notes widened 17 basis points in May, the biggest monthly gain
in at least a year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
spread was 117 basis points, or 1.17 percentage points,
yesterday.  ’Not in Favor’  “Non-sovereign debt is not in favor among investors given
the weak global and domestic environment,” Mukherjee at Axis
said.  The cost of protecting  State Bank of India  debt against
non-payment rose 0.2 basis point yesterday, having increased 43
basis points in the past month to 374 basis points, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  State Bank  is regarded as a proxy for the nation in the
market. The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Demand for the tax-free bonds may also pose “a bit of a
challenge” as regulations restrict companies from buying debt
at yields below the official  bank rate , according to Yes Bank
Ltd. The bank rate was increased as a technical adjustment to
9.5 percent in February, from 6 percent earlier. The rate has
stood at 9 percent since April.  “It is too much of supply too soon, because there is a lot
of supply from the previous year still floating around,” Nirav
Dalal, head of debt capital markets in Mumbai at Yes Bank, said
in an interview yesterday. “The authorities need to tweak the
regulation restricting corporates, otherwise demand may be
muted.”  RBI Decision  Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will cut the
repurchase rate by 25 basis points to 7.75 percent next week to
support economic growth, according to 14 of 18 economists in a
 Bloomberg survey . High inflation levels may still prevent policy
makers from reducing rates, according to CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets and Kotak Securities Ltd.  “We also have to keep in mind that there are inflation
pressures,” Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said in response to
questions from reporters in Mumbai June 5.  The government allots companies a quota of tax-free bonds
they’re allowed to issue. In the financial year ending March,
National Highways,  Indian Railways  and Indian Infrastructure
Finance Co. can each sell 100 billion rupees of the notes while
Housing and Urban Development Corp Ltd., National Housing Bank,
and Small Industries  Development Bank  of India can offer 50
billion rupees. Port operators can raise as much as 50 billion
rupees and power companies have a 100 billion-rupee allocation.  “Any offering has to cover more than the cost for an
investor, which in this case is high inflation,” Ashish Sable,
vice-president at SBI Capital Markets Ltd., said in a telephone
interview from Mumbai on June 11. “The total quantum offered is
still very high and there isn’t enough demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net  