-- SNB Pledges to Defend Franc Cap as Crisis Intensifies: Economy
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-06-14T09:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/snb-pledges-to-defend-franc-ceiling-as-debt-crisis-persists-1-.html
The Swiss central bank pledged to
keep defending its franc cap and left borrowing costs at zero to
protect the economy from “exceptionally high” risks as the
euro area’s crisis intensifies.  The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN) , led by President Thomas Jordan,
today maintained the ceiling at 1.20 francs per euro and
reiterated that it will uphold the measure “with the utmost
determination.” The Zurich-based  central bank  also kept its
 benchmark interest rate  on hold, as projected by all 20
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  With  Europe ’s debt turmoil worsening and investors growing
more concerned about a euro breakup, pressure on the SNB to
defend the franc ceiling is increasing. The central bank’s
foreign-currency reserves surged to a record in May as policy
makers stepped up euro purchases to stave off attacks spurred by
the crisis. Jordan said at a briefing in Bern that there “is no
limit” to interventions and officials are considering emergency
measures if the turmoil escalates.  “European developments have shown that the SNB hasn’t
chosen an easy instrument with the ceiling,” said Felix Brill,
an economist at Wellershoff & Partners Ltd. in Zurich. “It’s a
question of credibility. The SNB has signaled to investors that
it won’t give in and that it’s ready to do more if needed.”  The Swiss currency, which is considered a haven in times of
global turmoil, was little changed today at 1.2009 per euro as
of 11:48 a.m. in Zurich.  ‘Upward Pressure’  The euro region’s fiscal woes “have deteriorated
seriously” over the past months, sparking “increased upward
pressure” on the franc, Jordan said. He called the franc
“still high” versus the euro at the current level.  “ Switzerland  will experience a significant economic
slowdown over the rest of the year,” he said. “The risks for
the Swiss economic situation remain exceptionally high.”  Policy makers raised their 2012 growth forecast to 1.5
percent from about 1 percent after what they called an
“unexpectedly strong” winter half-year.  The SNB kept its inflation forecasts largely unchanged.
 Consumer prices  will fall 0.5 percent this year, before rising
0.3 percent in 2013 and 0.6 percent in 2014, the SNB said. In
March, it forecast prices to drop 0.6 percent this year.  ‘Unorthodox Tools’  The central bank, which doesn’t disclose details of its
market operations, introduced the ceiling in September after the
franc’s surge to near parity with the euro raised deflation
threats and eroded export competitiveness. Foreign-currency
holdings rose to 303.8 billion francs ($316 billion) in May from
237.6 billion francs in April as the turmoil worsened.  Jordan, 49, said the SNB “will not tolerate” any further
increase in the franc and “stands ready to take further
measures at any time.”  “We’re obviously considering other measures” that could
be used if there’s an “escalation of the crisis,” he said.  Peter Rosenstreich, chief currency analyst at Swissquote
Bank SA in Geneva, said in an e-mailed note today the
introduction of “unorthodox policy tools” such as  capital
controls  are “highly unlikely” as long as the economic
recovery remains steady.  Swiss Recovery  The franc ceiling has helped soften the impact of the euro
region’s economic slump. The government on June 12 raised its
economic forecast for this year on stronger domestic demand. The
KOF leading economic indicator rose for a fourth month in May
and consumers were the most optimistic in a year in April.  Burckhardt Compression Holding AG (BCHN) , which sells compressors
to  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , said on June 5 that new order growth may
exceed 10 percent this year.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , the
world’s second-biggest luxury goods company, last month reported
full-year profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Credit Suisse Group AG and Deutsche Bank AG today lowered
their forecasts for  China ’s growth this year.  South Korea ’s
central bank Governor Kim Choong Soo reiterated his concerns
about the risks posed by excessive global liquidity and policy
makers in  New Zealand  and the  Philippines  kept their benchmark
 interest rates  unchanged.  The  European Central Bank  last week also kept borrowing
costs on hold ahead of Greek elections.  Greece  will vote on June
17 on whether to back Alexis Tsipras, who wants to scrap the
austerity plan dictated by the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  as a condition of its bailout.  SNB Diversification  Latest available data show the SNB has been reducing its
euro exposure over the past two years. Euro holdings accounted
for 51 percent of reserves at the end of the first quarter, down
from 70 percent in the second quarter of 2010. Reserves of
dollars rose to 28 percent from 22 percent in that period.  Jordan said the SNB added currencies such as Australian and
Singapore dollars as well as Danish krone and Swedish krona in
2010 “to diversify its investments further.”  “Since the first quarter of 2012, the SNB has also been
investing in the Korean won,” he said. “Additional investment
opportunities in the advanced and emerging economies are
continually being evaluated, both for bonds and for shares,
although this is subject to an adequate level of liquidity in
the markets in question.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  