-- SNB Sees Need for Corrective Measures on Swiss Property Market
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-06-14T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/snb-sees-need-for-corrective-measures-on-swiss-property-market.html
The  Swiss National Bank  said
measures are needed to prepare lenders for “growing” risks
stemming from the country’s real estate and mortgage markets.  “SNB estimates on apartment prices indicate that they
already exceed values justified by fundamentals,” the central
bank said in its annual financial stability report, published
today. “In view of the growing risks in the Swiss real estate
and mortgage markets, the SNB considers that there is a need for
corrective measures.”  The Swiss government this month announced measures to
reduce mortgage-lending risks, including rules that will give it
the discretion to raise capital requirements for all banks by as
much as 2.5 percent of risk-weighted assets to counter “excess
credit growth.” They come into effect next month and the
government would activate the capital-buffer requirement at the
request of the SNB and in consultation with the Swiss banking
regulator.  “A temporary adjustment of system-wide  capital
requirements  may have to be considered,” the SNB said in
today’s report. “For some domestically focused banks, there is
a need for corrective measures not just in the medium term, but
also in the short term, since the environment could deteriorate
rapidly. These short-term risks should be addressed with
microprudential measures.”  Stress Scenario  The SNB is assessing the banks’ capital adequacy by
estimating potential risks from a “very severe but possible
scenario” of an escalating sovereign debt crisis that leads to
a “deep recession” in  Switzerland , a fall in real estate
prices and an increase in household and corporate defaults. Even
in the baseline scenario for the next 12 months, the central
bank sees risks increasing in the real estate market.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the country’s biggest
banks, had combined mortgage claims amounting to 241 billion
Swiss francs ($251.5 billion) at the end of 2011, the SNB said.
Mortgage loans of domestically focused banks totaled about 540
billion francs, which is equivalent to about 70 percent of these
banks’ total balance sheets.  “The mortgage market constitutes a significant risk
concentration for domestically focused banks,” the SNB said,
adding that the risk appetite of such lenders “has increased
significantly over the last few years.”  Average mortgage volumes at those banks rose 6.5 percent in
2011, according to the SNB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  