-- Sonangal Says Cobalt Selections Followed Angola Law
-- B y   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-06-14T22:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/sonangal-says-cobalt-selections-followed-angola-law.html
Sonangol EP,  Angola ’s state-owned
oil company, said its selection of  Cobalt International Energy
Inc. (CIE)  and other partners in offshore crude fields followed
Angolan law.  Recent oil discoveries in Angola have attracted “parties
interested in causing controversy where none exists,” Sonangol,
based in Luanda, said in a statement today. Sonangol selected
Cobalt and its partners “through processes which included an
open and transparent lease sale for the deep-water pre-salt
blocks.”  Cobalt, based in Houston, said in a Feb. 21 regulatory
filing that it’s under investigation by the U.S. Securities &
Exchange Commission and the U.S. Justice Department for alleged
connections between senior Angolan government officials and
Nazaki Oil and Gaz SA, a partner in two offshore blocks.  “We’re confident we’ve done nothing wrong,” Lynne Hackedorn, a spokeswoman at Cobalt headquarters, said in a
telephone interview today. “We’re completely working diligently
with them.”  The Financial Times reported April 15 that former Sonangol
chief  Manuel Vicente  and Angolan General Manuel Helder Vieira
Dias Jr. confirmed they are Nazaki shareholders. The connections
raise questions about the company’s compliance with anti-
corruption laws, the London-based newspaper said.  “Sonangol’s announcement regarding the bid process is
fully consistent with Cobalt’s understanding and experience in
Angola,” Hackedorn said. “We look forward to a long and
prosperous relationship for our shareholders, partners and the
people of Angola.”  Seabed Drilling  Cobalt and Maersk Oil, a subsidiary of  Denmark ’s A.P.
Moller-Maersk A/S, are drilling for oil more than 2 miles (3
kilometers) beneath the seabed off the coast of Angola,  Africa ’s
largest oil producer after  Nigeria .  Cobalt, whose largest shareholders are  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and Riverstone Holdings LLC, said on Feb. 10 that test
results from the Cameia-1 well in Angola showed a “high-
quality” oil reservoir that may have the potential to produce
more than 20,000 barrels a day. The company plans to release
results on the Cameia-2 well within the next 30 to 60 days,
Hackedorn said.  Maersk Oil said in January its Azul-1 well might produce
more than 3,000 barrels a day.  Joao Rosa Santos, a Luanda-based spokesman for Sonangol,
didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone seeking comment because
he’s traveling, said a colleague who declined to be identified
according to company practice.  Cobalt rose 0.9 percent to $21.87 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 41 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candido Mendes in Luanda at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net ;
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  