-- Soros-Backed Farms Ripe for Bid at 36% Discount: Real M&A
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-06-14T20:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/soros-backed-farms-ripe-for-bid-at-36-discount-real-m-a.html
Adecoagro SA (AGRO) , the agricultural
company that counts  George Soros  as its biggest investor, is
giving potential buyers the chance to get a hold of farms in
Brazil and Argentina at a 36 percent discount to its net assets.  The producer of soybeans, sugar and rice slumped 21 percent
in the  past year , more than three times the average decline of
similar-sized farming companies around the world, as investors
shunned Argentine assets after the government seized YPF SA.
That’s left the $1.1 billion farmland venture trading at 0.64
times its net asset value of about $14.78 a share, based on the
average of four analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Adecoagro, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange,
is projected to post  record revenue  and profit next year as the
United Nations says global food output must rise 70 percent by
2050 to feed a growing world population. While ties to  Argentina 
have been a drag on the stock, HSBC Holdings Plc says most of
the company’s growth will come from Brazil, potentially luring
takeover interest from agriculture traders  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  and
Cargill Inc. Adecoagro could command as much as $15 a share in a
takeover, said ING Groep NV, a 57 percent premium.  “It does look cheap,”  Ed Kuczma , who helps manage $30
billion at Van Eck Associates, said in a phone interview from
New York. “Some of their farms are very valuable and some of
the growth opportunities in Brazil are attractive for acquirers
who are looking for more access to the story in Brazil.”  A spokeswoman for Adecoagro, which is run from  Buenos Aires 
and incorporated in Luxembourg, didn’t respond to phone calls
seeking comment.  Soros’s Investment  Today, the shares rose 0.8 percent to $9.61, the highest
price in two weeks.  Adecoagro was  formed  in 2002 with the acquisition of more
than 74,000 hectares (182,780 acres) of land from the Perez
Companc family, according to its website. The company owned more
than 290,000 hectares of land as of December 2011, divided among
23  farms  in Argentina, 13 in Brazil and one in  Uruguay ,
according to a  regulatory filing . It also runs two sugar mills
and ethanol plants in Brazil, as well as rice plants and a dairy
plant in Argentina.  When the company first sold shares to the public in January
2011,  Soros Fund Management  LLC, founded by the 81-year-old
billionaire, reduced its stake to 21 percent from 33 percent,
according to regulatory filings. The firm is still Adecoagro’s
 largest shareholder .  Michael Vachon , a spokesman for  New York- 
based Soros Fund Management, referred questions about the
potential for a takeover to Adecoagro.  Argentine Risk  Since its IPO at $11 a share, Adecoagro has fallen 13
percent as a lack of rain in  South America  in the second half of
2011 and early 2012 reduced crop yields and investors became
more averse to Argentina because of potential political
interference. Congress passed a law in December restricting the
purchase of farmland by foreigners and in April nationalized
YPF, the country’s largest oil company.  “They have the Argentine risk, but I believe that risk is
being discounted in the shares more than it should be,”
Alessandro Baldoni, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a
phone interview from  Sao Paulo . “It’s a company with great
assets. They will continue developing the Argentine assets but
won’t buy more there. The trend is to grow more in Brazil.”  Adecoagro’s  21 percent  stock decline in the last 12 months
outpaced the average 5.7 percent drop among farming companies
around the world with market values of at least $500 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Undervalued’ Assets  The shares closed yesterday at $9.53, 36 percent less than
its net asset value of about $14.78 a share, according to the
average of four analysts’ estimates. The company’s largest asset
is its farmland.  “It’s pretty undervalued compared to its underlying
assets,” Eric Conrads, who helps manage $1 billion at ING in
 New York , said in a phone interview. While Argentine government
policies, land ownership rules and drought conditions have been
a drag on the stock price, most of Adecoagro’s future growth
will come from Brazil, he said.  Brazil is the world’s largest exporter of coffee, sugar and
orange juice, the second-biggest supplier of soybeans and the
fourth-largest for corn, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Adecoagro is seeking to expand in the country, particularly
in sugar and ethanol production. Last year, a majority of the
IPO proceeds were designated for the construction in Brazil of a
sugar mill, which is scheduled to start operating next year,
Chief Executive Officer Mariano Bosch said on a conference call
last month.  Controlling Farms  The company is projected to boost  net income  by 60 percent
from last year to a record $89.8 million in 2013, according to
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg and past results
dating back to 2007. Revenue may also reach an all-time high.  The farming business stands to benefit as the  United
Nations ’  Food and Agriculture Organization  says  food output 
needs to increase  70 percent  by 2050 to accommodate a world
population expected to reach 9 billion from about 7 billion now.  While an acquisition may not happen in the “short term,”
buying Adecoagro would give agricultural trading companies, such
as  White Plains , New York-based Bunge and closely held Cargill,
direct access to farmlands and crops, according to Pedro Herrera, an analyst at HSBC. Cargill and Bunge buy agricultural
produce from farmers to sell or process. Cargill is the world’s
largest sugar trader and also  processes  oilseeds, while Bunge
processes sugar, oilseeds and corn.  “Instead of just buying from farmers, they’d go to control
some degree of the supply,” Herrera said in a phone interview
from New York. “Over time there’s this perception that there’s
not enough supply to meet all the demand, and in order for big
traders to have the supply, they will have to have some farms
themselves.”  ‘Very Unpredictable’  Spokesmen for Bunge and Minneapolis-based Cargill didn’t
respond to phone calls and e-mails requesting comment.  Still, the majority of Adecoagro’s land is in Argentina,
and the political risks there make it hard to determine an
appropriate value for the company, said Kristof Bulkai, a  fund
manager  at Thames River Capital LLP, a unit of F&C Asset
Management Plc, which oversees more than 100 billion euros ($126
billion). Bulkai said his firm no longer owns shares of
Adecoagro.  “The problem with Adecoagro is -- because of the big
circus in Argentina and what is happening in Argentina -- it’s
very unpredictable,” Bulkai said in a phone interview from
 London . “In a way it looks cheap optically, but if there’s no
security of your owning your assets and the treatment these
assets will get, you can put any price on them you want.”  Farming Consolidation  Nomura Holdings Inc. last week cut its forecast for
Argentina’s economic growth to 2 percent this year from 3
percent, and forecasts for  Brazil ’s economic expansion have
fallen for five straight weeks to 2.53 percent, according to the
median estimate in a central bank survey of about 100 analysts.
While growth may be slowing, Adecoagro’s revenue is largely
driven by global demand and prices for commodities.  A takeover offer for Adecoagro would have to exceed its IPO
price of $11 a share, according to ING’s Conrads. Major
shareholders are unlikely to sell for less than $15 a share, he
said, which would top the company’s estimated net asset value
and represent a 57 percent premium to the  stock ’s closing price
yesterday.  “Farming will become a more corporate, large-scale
industry” as consolidation continues, particularly in Brazil,
said HSBC’s Herrera. “Companies like Adecoagro will continue to
grow. Investors don’t truly understand that the company’s growth
will come from outside Argentina. That’s been part of the
strategic plan all along.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 