-- South Sudan Joined by UN to Probe Reports of Rapes by Police
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-06-14T14:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/south-sudan-joined-by-un-to-probe-reports-of-rapes-by-police.html
South Sudan  and the  United Nations 
are investigating reports that 500 police who were disarming
civilians in Jonglei state abducted and raped women, a UN
spokesman said.  South Sudanese and UN soldiers were sent by helicopter to
two villages, Lukongule and Manyabol, that were reportedly
attacked by the police over the past week, said Liam McDowall, a
spokesman for the  UN peacekeeping mission in the south .  “They are looking into whether reports of abduction of
women and allegations of rape have veracity,” McDowall said by
phone today from Juba, the capital. The original force of police
has split into smaller groups, he said.  Jonglei Governor Kuol Manyang said the police were under
the command of the army and were sent to Pibor County to carry
out disarmament after being trained in Juba. After reports of
poor conduct by the police, they were told they would receive
further training in the state capital, Bor, Manyang said today
by phone from the city.  South  Sudan  started a disarmament campaign in Jonglei after
about 8,000 members of the Lou Nuer ethnic group attacked
communities in Pibor County, homeland of the Murle tribe, in
late December and early January. The Pibor County commissioner,
Joshua Konyi, said about 3,000 people died in those attacks.  A group of non-governmental organizations including
Washington-based PACT and the South Sudan Law Society urged the
UN in April to withdraw support from the disarmament campaign in
a report that alleged abuses including beatings and simulated
drownings.  Oil Potential  Jonglei, an eastern state bordering  Ethiopia , is mostly
covered by the Block B oil concession in which  France ’s biggest
oil company, Paris-based  Total SA (FP) , holds a 32.5 percent stake.  Total signed an exploration and production-sharing
agreement with Sudan’s government in 1980, before suspending
exploration in 1985 because of “escalating insecurity in the
region, related to the civil war,” according to the company’s
website.  Company spokesman Florent Segura said on Feb. 2 that Total
submitted a “preparatory work plan” for resuming operations to
the government, and was monitoring the Block B area “to ensure
the safety of its personnel and contractors as soon as
operations resume.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  