-- South African Union Fight Threatens Platinum Producers
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-06-14T15:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/south-african-union-fight-threatens-platinum-producers.html
A clash between unions is
threatening to spread across South Africa’s platinum-mining belt
and disrupt production in a region accounting for three-quarters
of world supplies of the precious metal.  Already this year fighting between the 30-year-old  National
Union of Mineworkers  and the insurgent Association of
Mineworkers and Construction Union, or AMCU, has led to four
deaths and a strike that closed the world’s biggest platinum
mine,  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd.’s (IMP)  Rustenburg operation, for
six weeks.  Now AMCU says it may call a fresh strike at the mine to
gain the right to deal with the company and it’s recruiting at
the mines of  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s largest
platinum producer, having secured a foothold at  Lonmin Plc’s (LMI) 
Karee operation. For the unions about 100 million rand ($12
million) in annual fees are at stake. For the companies mines
producing about 5.5 million ounces of platinum a year, worth
$8.2 billion at current prices, are threatened.  “The impact on the  mining industry  could be severe,” Anne Fruhauf, an analyst at New York-based risk research company
Eurasia Group, said in a June 7 e-mailed response to questions.
“Employers believe that union rivalry could benefit their
negotiating position in the long run, but such long-term gains
may come at a high price in the short term, by causing major
mine disruption and production losses.”  The price of platinum, used in jewelry and in equipment to
cut pollution from cars, has plunged 17 percent over the last
year to $1,488.38 an ounce as of 4:03 p.m.. in  London .  Worst Performers  In February Anglo Platinum announced a review of its
operations because of unsatisfactory profits, last month Lonmin
posted a first-half loss and Impala said third-quarter
production fell 46 percent because of the strike.  Aquarius
Platinum Ltd. (AQP)  this week idled a mine shaft in South Africa and
in May  Eastern Platinum Ltd. (ELR)  halted development of a mine.  The shares of the three companies, all of which are based
in Johannesburg, are the  worst  performers over the past year on
an index of the 40 biggest companies traded on the city’s stock
exchange with with Anglo Platinum falling 20 percent, Impala 21
percent and Lonmin 43 percent. Impala rose 0.9 percent to 143
rand by the close of trading in Johannesburg. Anglo Platinum
rose 0.2 percent to 511.90 rand and Lonmin fell 1.7 percent to
93.26 rand.  Fires, Barricades  “We’re worried about the state the industry finds itself
in,” Justin Froneman, an analyst at Johannesburg’s SBG
Securities, said in an interview. “The industry just isn’t
making a return. Local-currency prices for platinum group metals
are almost unchanged over the last two years while mining
inflation has increased about 15 percent a year for the last
three.”  The NUM, which was founded in 1982 and became the country’s
largest labor union as it fought against apartheid with the
 African National Congress , says AMCU is using force to take its
members at Impala’s mine 90 miles (145 kilometers) northwest of
Johannesburg.  In addition to the deaths, the strike resulted in at least
50 people being injured and cost more than 120,000 ounces of
production. Protesters set fire to cars, barricaded roads and
miners going to work were attacked with guns, axes, traditional
fighting sticks and stones.  Pay Rise  The unrest began when rock-drill operators went on strike
illegally after some workers at the mine were given a pay rise.
They were later fired by Impala and compelled to reapply for
their jobs. That unrest degenerated into inter-union clashes as
striking workers tried to prevent colleagues from working. Rock
drill operators including Emmanuel Ntetha said in February that
they had lost faith in the NUM because it did not ensure that
all workers got the same pay rise.  NUM President Senzeni Zokwana said at the time that the
local branch of the union hadn’t communicated adequately with
its members at the mine.  “Our members are forced to resign from NUM through assault
or killing,” Eddie Majadibodu, chief negotiator for the NUM at
Impala, said by phone on June 4.  AMCU, which says it doesn’t advocate violence, recruited
half of Rustenburg’s 30,000 employees and has the right to be
the dominant union in terms of  South Africa ’s labor law, it said
in a legal notice to Impala. The company on May 29 said that NUM
has lost at least 10,813 members.  ‘Strongly Recruiting’  “NUM has failed to represent Impala Platinum Mine
employees,” AMCU President Joseph Mathunjwa said at a
Johannesburg press conference on June 6. NUM negotiated a poor
wage deal for workers, sparking the strike in January, he said.
“Now employees have found a new home in AMCU.”  AMCU is “strongly recruiting” at Anglo Platinum and has
gained more than 5,000 members at Lonmin, the third-largest
producer, Mathunjwa said.  “The rivalry for membership between the unions could be a
feature for the foreseeable future with a corresponding increase
in the risk of escalation of costs and disruptions to
production,” Lonmin said in a stock exchange statement on May
14.  Workers pay the unions 1 percent of their basic salary,
excluding overtime pay and benefits such as medical insurance
and housing allowances, for membership.  At about 80 rand a month per employee, the Rustenburg mine
alone generates about 1.6 million rand a month in membership
fees, Johan Theron, Impala’s group executive for personnel, said
June 4. About two-thirds of employees at the mine belong to
unions, he said.  ‘Shock Waves’  It’s difficult for new unions to win organizational rights,
he said.  “The framework doesn’t lend itself to change easily,”
Theron said. “When change occurs, there are a lot of shock
waves.”  NUM, whose Secretary-General Frans Baleni accuses Impala of
collaborating with AMCU, may be underestimating “how unhappy
their own people are with them,” Theron said. While “there may
be people who were forced to join AMCU,” it’s “naive” to
think that thousands were forced, he said.  The NUM, which says it has about 320,000 members, is an
affiliate of the Congress of South African Trade Unions, a
political ally of the ruling ANC.  AMCU, formed in 1998 by former NUM leaders at coal mines,
is based in Emalahleni, which lies in eastern South Africa’s
coalfields. AMCU is an apolitical organization with about 50,000
members, the union’s Mathunjwa said.  AMCU’s arrival at Impala and  African Rainbow Minerals
Ltd.’s (ARI)  Two Rivers venture a few years ago also led to a strike,
Theron said. Now, there is a peaceful multi union committee and
the mine performs well, he said.  The Rustenburg mine “is just bigger and the stakes are
bigger,” Theron said. “People will get hurt. You can’t put a
cost to that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  