-- Spain in Post-Bailout Backlash, Davies Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-06-14T14:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/spain-in-post-bailout-backlash-davies-says-tom-keene.html
Spain  is experiencing a backlash
following last week’s bailout as borrowing costs increase along
with the country’s debt load, according to the French School of
Political Science’s  Howard Davies .  Spain’s bonds slumped, with 10-year yields rising to a
 euro-era record , after Moody’s Investors Service cut the
nation’s credit rating to one step above junk, citing its rising
debt burden and weakening economy. Spanish lenders’ net
borrowings from the  European Central Bank  jumped to a record
287.8 billion euros ($361.4 billion) in May.  “This is just a liquidity arrangement and the obligation
lies with the Spanish government, which is becoming more
indebted,” Davies, a former  Bank of England  deputy governor and
Financial Services Authority chairman, said in a radio interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.
“This has not actually solved the problem at all and the market
is now realizing that and telling us that very quickly.”  Spain’s 10-year  yield  climbed 16 basis points, or 0.16
percentage point, to 6.91 percent at 10:49 a.m. in  New York  time
after rising to 6.998 percent, the highest since the  euro was
introduced  in 1999. The yield has jumped 70 basis points this
week.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of similar-maturity German bunds widened 16 basis
points to 543 basis points after reaching 551 basis points, also
a euro-era record.  ‘Risen Further’  The Spanish bailout, which was designed to “channel money
from the European Financial Stability Facility into the Spanish
government” has “increased the Spanish government’s overall
debt,” Davies said. “A consequence of that has been that
Spanish borrowing costs have actually risen further.”  Moody’s lowered Spain’s credit rating yesterday to Baa3
from A3 and put it on review for a further downgrade. The
request for aid from the European Union to recapitalize its
banking system adds to the government’s debt load, it said.  Spanish bonds have handed investors a loss of 5.6 percent
this year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Spain on June 9 became the fourth euro member to seek a
bailout since the debt crisis began almost three years ago,
asking for as much as 100 billion euros to rescue lenders
pummeled by a real-estate slump now in its fifth year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  