-- Spanish Home Prices Post Annual Drop on Deepening Slump
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-06-14T10:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/spanish-home-prices-16th-annual-decline-on-deepening-rece.html
Spanish  home prices  posted the
biggest annual decline on record in the first quarter as the
euro area’s fourth-largest economy sank deeper into recession
and banks reined in lending.  The average price of houses and apartments declined 12.6
percent from a year earlier, the most since the measurement
began in 2008, the  National Statistics Institute  in Madrid said
today in an e-mailed statement. Prices dropped 5 percent from
the previous quarter.  “The state of the economy and government measures to force
banks to set aside more provisions are accelerating the drop in
 home prices ,” said  Fernando Encinar , head of research at
Idealista.com, Spain’s largest property website. “This trend
will continue over coming quarters as home owners have no other
option than to cut asking prices if they want to sell.”  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is battling to turn around a
real-estate slump that has pushed Spain into its second
recession since 2009 and driven  unemployment  to 24.3 percent,
the highest in the European Union. His government forecasts an
economic contraction of 1.7 percent this year.  Spain passed decrees in February and May forcing banks to
make deeper provisions for losses linked to real estate in an
effort to push down prices, boost sales and restore credibility
to the banking industry.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Spain’s credit rating
yesterday by three steps to Baa3, one level above junk, citing
the nation’s increased debt burden and weakening economy. The
move came days after Europe’s 100 billion-euro ($126 billion)
weekend bailout of Spanish banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Smyth in  Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  