-- Spurs Make Moyes Top Target to Replace Redknapp: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-14T07:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/spurs-make-moyes-top-target-to-replace-redknapp-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  No. 1 Target  Everton’s  David Moyes  is the No. 1 managerial target for
Tottenham after  Harry Redknapp  negotiated his departure from
Spurs, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Tottenham Chairman  Daniel Levy  put Moyes top of a list
including  Roberto Martinez , Andre Villas-Boas and Jurgen Klinsmann, the Mirror added.  Winger Wanted  Liverpool is in talks to sign Milos Krasic from Italian
champion Juventus as West Ham United manager  Sam Allardyce  tries
to take the Serbia international winger on loan, the  Daily
Mirror reported .  Krasic, 27, may be available for 6 million pounds ($9.2
million) because Juventus is trying to raise cash to pay for a
striker, with Robin Van Persie and Luis Suarez the top targets,
the Mirror said.  Tello Price Tag  Liverpool has been told that Barcelona forward Cristian
Tello, who is out of contract at the end of next season, will
cost 7 million pounds, the  Daily Mail reported .  Yakubu, Jaaskelainen  West Ham is preparing a bid for Blackburn striker Aiyegbeni Yakubu, who has a clause in his contract allowing him to leave
for 1 million pounds, the  Sun reported .  Allardyce also has agreed on a deal to sign Bolton’s
Finnish international goalkeeper Jussi Jaaskelainen on a free
transfer, the newspaper added.  Modric Move  Tottenham Hotspur playmaker Luka Modric will quit the club
because of its failure to qualify for the  Champions League , the
 Sun reported , citing his Croatian teammate Vedran Corluka.  “Luka is one of the best players in the world and the kind
who wants to play in the best competition,” the Sun cited
Corluka as saying. “Not getting into the Champions League will
cost Spurs next season.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  