-- Stanford Faces Possible Life Term for $7 Billion Fraud
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-06-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/stanford-faces-possible-life-term-for-7-billion-fraud.html
R.  Allen Stanford , found guilty of
leading a $7 billion international fraud scheme by a U.S. jury,
will spend the rest of his life in prison if a federal judge
grants prosecutors’ request.  Stanford, 62, will be sentenced today by U.S. District
Judge David Hittner in Houston. Jurors in March convicted the
Stanford Financial Group principal of 13 charges, including five
counts of mail fraud and four of  wire fraud , each punishable by
as long as 20 years in prison.  Prosecutors asked for a 230-year term, the maximum under
federal sentencing guidelines. Ali Fazel, one of Stanford’s
lawyers, said the defense asked for a sentence of 31 to 44
months, based on a different, much-lower calculation of
investors’ losses. Prosecutors contended that such a sentence
was tantamount to “time served” for Stanford, who has been in
custody since June 2009.  A sentence of about 30 years is more likely, according to
Douglas Burns, a  New York  criminal defense lawyer.  “This isn’t the Madoff case,” Burns said, referring to
 Bernard Madoff , the New York financier who received a 150-year
term for a Ponzi scheme that bilked investors of more than twice
as much money as  Stanford’s victims. “This doesn’t seem to be
at the same level.”  Stanford’s jury found he lied to buyers of certificates of
deposit issued by his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank
Ltd. and sold in the U.S. by his Houston-based securities firm,
Stanford Group Co.  ‘Ruthless Predator’  Jurors rejected claims that investors received adequate
disclosures of how their money was being spent and that any
wrongdoing was the fault of finance chief James Davis, who
pleaded guilty to fraud and testified against Stanford.  “Robert Allen Stanford is a ruthless predator responsible
for one of the most egregious frauds in history,” the  Justice
Department  said in its 34-page filing on June 6.  Having won a $330 million forfeiture verdict two days after
the conviction, prosecutors on June 12 asked Hittner to enter a
$5.9 billion money judgment against the financier.  Barry Pollack, Washington criminal defense lawyer, said the
government’s recommendation is inappropriate for a symbolic
sentence. Stanford would be 77 if he served 15 years and would
be unlikely to commit crimes after being released, Pollack said.  “It’s hard to take a request for a 230-year sentence
seriously,” Pollack said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Burns, a former federal prosecutor, agreed.  “The government, I think, is not looking for this 230-year
sentence,” he said. Given Stanford’s age, “a life sentence
approximates 25 years.”  No Madoff  U.S. District Judge  Denny Chin  was under “unbelievable
pressure” when he sentenced Madoff in 2009, Burns said, adding
he doubted Hittner would mete out a comparable punishment.  “I don’t think he’s going to give him a Bernie Madoff-like
sentence because I don’t think the case is viewed like the
Madoff case,” he said. A 12 1/2-year sentence would fairly and
severely punish the financier, he said.  Thomas Petters , 54, a Minnesota businessman found guilty of
orchestrating a $3.5 billion fraud in Dec. 2009, received a 50-
year prison term.  Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam last year was
sentenced to 11 years for insider trading. He will be 55
tomorrow. Enron Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Skilling ,
found guilty of both fraud and  insider trading  at the world’s
biggest energy trading company, got a 24-year term in 2006. He
is now 58.  Expressing Empathy  In sentencing Stanford, Hittner will take into account the
amount of money lost, and the impact on his victims. The judge
will also consider the financier’s health and whether he
expresses remorse for his acts, said Pollack.  “You can express some empathy for the people who lost
money without admitting that you intentionally committed a
fraud,” preserving the viability of an appeal, he said.  More than 300 victims’ letters have been received by the
court. Two fraud victims will address the judge before the
financier is punished, according to court papers.  “Madoff may go down in history for operating the world’s
biggest  Ponzi scheme , but I hope Judge David Hittner gives Allen
Stanford the ‘bragging rights’ he deserves for operating the
world’s most criminal Ponzi scheme,” victims advocate Angela
Shaw said in an e-mailed statement. “His actions have ruined
thousands of lives, for which he has shown no remorse.”  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 