-- States, Congress Hampering Recovery in Cities, U.S. Mayors Say
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/states-congress-hampering-recovery-in-cities-u-s-mayors-say.html
U.S. cities recovering from the
worst recession since the 1930s are hampered by partisan
bickering in  Washington , D.C., and pressure from state lawmakers
to fill budget shortfalls, U.S. mayors say.  “It’s keeping capital on the sidelines,” Philadelphia
Mayor Michael Nutter said of the factionalism in Congress.
“Business people are not sure what direction we’re going in.”  U.S. mayors gathered in  Orlando ,  Florida , for their annual
meeting say cities are slowly rebounding, citing examples of
declining unemployment in Columbus,  Ohio , an increase in
construction fee collections in  West Palm Beach , Florida, and a
new outlet mall in Livermore, California.  “We are really beginning to feel a recovery that is real
and substantial,” said Mayor Michael B. Coleman of Columbus,
where unemployment is 6.5 percent, down from 9.3 percent in
January 2010. “It’s not as fast as we want, but it’s clearly
steady and purposeful.”  For the first time since 1980, cities are simultaneously
collecting less in property taxes and in state aid, according to
a June 1 report by the Philadelphia-based Pew Charitable Trusts.
The two revenue sources typically account for about half of
municipal income.  States “have been coming to cities to pick their pockets
to make their budget,” said John Marchand, mayor of Livermore,
a city of about 81,000 people, some 40 miles east of  San
Francisco .  Closing Gaps  Thirty states have projected or filled budget gaps totaling
$54 billion for fiscal year 2013, the Washington-based Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities said in a May 24 report. State
revenue remains 7 percent below 2007 levels, according to the
report.  In Livermore, sales tax and property tax collections are
down from last year and the budget of $77 million is at the same
level as in 2005, Marchand said.  The city is seeing  home construction , while $1 million in
local tax incentives helped land a new outlet mall, he said.  In West Palm Beach, Mayor Jeri Muoio said fees for
construction projects may reach the highest in six years, and
home sales have increased slightly.  Muoio and other mayors said economic issues would decide
the presidential election this year.  “We’re moving in the right direction, but I don’t think
that’s trickled down to the average person,” Muoio said. “I’m
not really sure that the average person, the average voter, is
seeing an impact on their personal economic well-being.”  Output Increases  All but 23 of the U.S.’s 363 metropolitan areas will
increase their gross output, James Diffley, chief regional
economist for forecasting firm IHS  Global Insight , said at the
conference.  The gains will add to a national economy projected to grow
by about 150,000 jobs a month for the rest of the year, he said.  “We are more confident than a year ago that our economic
recovery is self-sustaining,” Diffley told mayors. “We will
continue to see significant growth in jobs and income this year
and the next.”  Diffley said 57 cities will increase output by more than 3
percent this year, including  New Orleans ,  Salt Lake City  and
three Texas municipalities: Austin, Dallas and Houston. The U.S.
gross domestic product is expected to grow 2.1 percent, he said.  High-tech expansion in Denver and San Francisco will spur
growth near 3 percent, he said. Riverside,  California , and
Phoenix will “at last strongly rebound from the depths of the
housing crunch,” Diffley said.  Nutter and other mayors said Congress can help cities with
a new transportation bill to increase spending on road projects
and by avoiding defense cuts scheduled to reach about $500
billion by 2021. The automatic cuts in Pentagon spending were
required after a congressional committee failed to agree on how
to reduce the  national debt .  “We need them to do their jobs,” Nutter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  