-- Statoil Books Supertanker to Ship North Sea Crude to South Korea
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-06-14T12:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/statoil-books-supertanker-to-ship-north-sea-crude-to-south-korea.html
Statoil ASA (STL)  booked a very large
crude carrier to haul North Sea oil to  South Korea , raising the
number of supertankers involved in the trade to 15 since mid-
December, shipbroker reports showed.  Statoil chartered the Elizabeth I.A. to load crude at
Mongstad in  Norway  on July 15 at a cost of $4.85 million,
according to data from New York-based Poten & Partners Inc.
Galbraith’s Ltd., located in London, separately reported the
tanker as loading July 1 at a rate of $4.8 million. Vessel
charters are sometimes not concluded.  The unprecedented crude flow is taking place after South
Korea and the European Union signed a free-trade agreement in
July 2011. The accord exempted the nation’s refineries from a 3
percent tax on crude imports from the EU. More than half of the
 North Sea  oil shipped to South Korea is Forties blend, a grade
used to set Dated Brent, the benchmark for more than half of the
world’s crude, according to the table of ships chartered.  The Elizabeth I.A. is owned by Athens-based Anangel
Shipping Enterprises SA. Chartering manager  Harvey Miller 
declined to comment by phone from London. Each VLCC typically
holds 2 million barrels of oil.  Morten Eek, a spokesman for Stavanger, Norway-based
Statoil, also declined to comment. The company is the country’s
largest oil and gas producer.  Forties traded at a 38 cent-a-barrel premium to Dated
Brent, a two-month high, as of June 7, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The blend was at a 31-cent discount to
the benchmark today.  Details of VLCC fixtures from the North Sea to  Asia  since
December are as follows. Freight amounts are in millions of
dollars.  Scotland ’s Hound Point is the loading terminal for
Forties, and Mongstad is where ships take on cargoes of the
Norwegian Troll and Heidrun grades. The data are based on oil-
tanker reports and ship-tracking data from IHS Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  