-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Haiti (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-06-14T12:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-haiti-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  Haiti :  A mission from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) headed by
M. Boileau Loko visited Port-au-Prince from June 4 to 8, 2012
for discussions related to the Fourth Review under the Extended
Credit Facility (ECF) arrangement.[1] The mission met with Prime
Minister, Laurent Lamothe, Minister of Economy and Finance, Marie
Carmelle Jean-Marie, Minister Delegate responsible for human rights
and combating extreme poverty, Marie Carmèle Rose Anne Auguste,
Governor of the Bank of the Republic of Haiti Charles Castel, other
senior government officials, and representatives of the banking sector
and development partners. The mission would like to thank the authorities
for their warm hospitality and the climate of close cooperation and
frank discussion that prevailed throughout its stay. At the end of its
visit, the mission issued the following statement:
“The economy continues to grow, albeit below the levels projected
in the ECF-supported program, which remains broadly on track.
The slowdown in public investment, associated with the process
of political transition over the recent months, was offset by
sustained dynamism in the commercial sector and manufacturing
industries as well as by a good harvest. Inflation slowed to 5.4
percent in April in line with easing international food and
energy prices. The fiscal position firmed as a result of strong
domestic revenue collection and lower  capital expenditures  than
initially forecast in the budget. Credit to the economy picked up
and gross foreign reserves exceeded the equivalent of five months
of imports at end-March.
“The government of Haiti and the mission reached agreement ad
referendum on the broad outlines of a macroeconomic and structural
reform program covering the remainder of 2012 and the new 2013
budget year. The authorities’ program will continue to focus on
preserving macroeconomic stability, supporting economic recovery,
and further reducing poverty.
“The new government would need to accelerate the pace of reconstruction
against the backdrop of political stability and security. With the
expected upturn in public investment, real economic growth is expected
to range between 4.5 and 5.5 percent in 2012. Raising poverty-reducing
expenditures and investment levels will remain key fiscal policy objectives.
An appropriate combination of macroeconomic policies should help maintain
inflation at around 5 percent, while the external position is set to
remain strong.”
“The structural reform program will focus mainly on: (i) strengthening
domestic revenue collection; (ii) improving public financial management
and economic governance; (iii) strengthening institutional capacity to
enhance public investment management; (iv) reinforcing liquidity
management and monetary and foreign exchange operations to bring them
more closely in line with market conditions; and (v) reforming the
business environment. Close coordination between the new government
and the donor community is important to ensure the success of the
program.
The IMF staff will recommend that management request the completion
of the fourth review under the ECF, to be taken up by the Executive
Board in July 2012.”  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  