-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Ethiopia (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-06-14T14:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-ethiopia-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to Ethiopia:  An International Monetary Fund (IMF) mission visited  Addis Ababa 
May 30-June 13 to conduct discussions for the 2012 Article IV
Consultation. The mission met with Prime Minister Meles Zenawi,
Minister of Finance and Economic Development Sufian Ahmed, Governor
of the National Bank of Ethiopia Teklewold Atnafu, Economic Advisor
to the Prime Minister Newai Gebre-ab, other senior officials, as
well representatives of the private sector, the international
community, and civil society.
At its conclusion, the mission head Mr. Michael Atingi-Ego issued
the following statement:
“The Ethiopian economy continues to grow at a robust pace, poverty
continues to fall, and inflation, while still high, has been declining.
The expansion in economic activity has been supported by robust export
growth and public enterprise investments. Tight monetary and fiscal
policies have contributed to the deceleration of inflation, which also
reflects declining international commodity prices. Monetary tightening,
reflected in a contraction of base money, was achieved by terminating
central bank financing of the budget and significant sales of foreign
exchange. As a result of this foreign exchange intervention, gross
official foreign reserves have declined to under two months of import
coverage. The budget execution has been prudent, but increased domestic
credit to public enterprises has been providing strong fiscal impulse.
“For 2011/12, the mission projects real GDP growth at 7 percent and
end-year inflation at about 22 percent. A similar growth rate and
single digits inflation are achievable in 2012/13 if implementation
of tight monetary and fiscal policies is maintained.
“Going forward, the mission recommends continuing the fight against
inflation. Raising  interest rates  immediately would enhance the
activation of the Treasury bill market for liquidity management and
monetary policy implementation. Higher interest rates will also support
domestic savings mobilization efforts that are key for financing
investment to achieve ambitious objectives in the Growth and
Transformation Plan (GTP). In addition, the policy of no central
bank financing of the budget should remain in place to send a
strong signal of the government’s commitment to fight inflation.
 “The financing of the GTP should strike a balance between seeking
to promote growth and ensuring macroeconomic stability. Given the
authorities’ objective of financing long-term projects by domestic
sources and the resulting strong financial real sector linkages,
it will be important to increase the oversight of the financial
sector to ensure its stability. On the external front, rebuilding
gross official foreign reserves will provide a buffer against
potential exogenous shocks given the current volatile global
environment. A comprehensive monitoring of both external and
domestic public debt would help maintain debt sustainability.
“The IMF Executive Board is expected to complete the 2012 Article IV
consultation in mid-September 2012.”  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  