-- Stiglitz Calls for Bigger Wal-Mart South African Fund
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-06-14T11:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/stiglitz-calls-for-bigger-wal-mart-south-african-fund.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  should be
required to set up a bigger suppliers’ fund than originally
planned as a condition for its purchase of a stake in  Massmart
Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , Nobel Laureate Joseph Stiglitz said in a report.  Wal-Mart’s purchase of Johannesburg-based Massmart was
approved by  South Africa ’s Competition Tribunal last year,
subject to the companies promising to refrain from firing
employees for two years and setting up a 100 million-rand ($11.8
million) fund to assist local suppliers and manufacturers. Judge
Dennis Davis, president of the Competition Appeal Court, ordered
in March that three experts make recommendations on the mandate
and conditions of the fund.  Stiglitz and James Hodge, managing partner of Genesis
Analytics, called for the fund to be increased to 500 million
rand to 2 billion rand allocated over five to 10 years. The
third member of the panel,  Mike Morris , a professor at
University of  Cape Town , said in a separate report dated June 9
that the fund should be smaller and more focused.  “There are a number of positive as well as problematic
features with the current form of Massmart’s supplier
development fund,” Stiglitz and Hodge wrote in their report. A
fund of as much as 2 billion rand would be recommended
if it “were to materially address the concerns of the court and
provide sufficient incentives to Massmart to implement a serious
program to empower local suppliers.”  The judge has given the companies, three government
ministries and a retail workers’ union a month to respond to the
reports. A date for the court’s decision hasn’t been set, the
registrar said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “To require that the fund address all small and medium
suppliers would be highly discriminatory,” Morris said in his
report. “It would impose both very substantial costs and very
substantial uncertainties on Wal-Mart/Massmart which are not
borne by any of its competitors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  