-- Sugar Waiting to Be Loaded at Brazil's Santos Increases
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-14T09:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/sugar-waiting-to-be-loaded-at-brazil-s-santos-increases.html
The amount of sugar waiting to be
loaded onto ships at the port of Santos in  Brazil  rose over the
past week as traders favored the country’s biggest port over
second-ranking Paranagua because of freight costs.  Vessels in Santos were waiting to load as much as 1.7
million metric tons of sugar yesterday, 1 percent more than a
week earlier, e-mailed data from shipping agency Williams
Servicos Maritimos Ltda. showed. In Paranagua, the amount of
sugar fell 8.4 percent in the period to 445,935 tons.  Traders shipping sweetener to China benefit from lower
freight costs at Santos, according to broker Kingsman SA.
Shipping from Brazil’s biggest port can be as much as $4 to $5 a
ton cheaper than exporting from Paranagua, as Brazil boosts
exports to Asian countries including  China  and ships less to
traditional buyer  Russia , the Lausanne, Switzerland-based
company said in a report on June 12.  About 18 percent, or 300,250 tons, of all the sugar waiting
to be loaded at Santos will be shipped to China, according to
Williams Brasil. There were no vessels scheduled to sail to the
Asian nation from Paranagua, the data showed.  China’s sugar imports will climb by 1 million tons to 3.1
million tons in the current 2011-12 season, according to the
 International Sugar Organization  in London. Russia’s imports
will fall to 600,000 tons in the same period, down from 2.5
million tons a year earlier, the Moscow-based Institute for
Agricultural Market Studies, or Ikar, estimates.  The amount of sugar waiting to be loaded in all of Brazil’s
main ports fell 2 percent over the past week as dry weather
facilitated loading operations. Brazil will get dry weather this
week through tomorrow, weather forecaster Somar Meteorologia
said in an e-mailed report on June 11.  Ships waiting at the country’s ports were set to load as
many as 2.152 million tons of the sweetener as of yesterday, the
shipping data showed. That compared with 2.196 million tons a
week earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 