-- Suu Kyi Plight Reminds Us of Dissidents’ Pain, Nobel Chief Says
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-06-14T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/suu-kyi-plight-reminds-us-of-dissidents-pain-nobel-chief-says.html
The 21 years that  Aung San Suu Kyi 
has had to wait before collecting her Nobel Peace Prize must
serve as a reminder of the suffering other dissidents continue
to endure, said Nobel Institute Director Geir Lundestad.  “We hadn’t thought it would take that long,” the 67-year-
old said in a June 13 phone interview from Oslo. The historian
took up his position in 1990, the year before the Myanmar
opposition leader was awarded the prize for her struggle for
democracy and human rights in her home country.  Suu Kyi, 66, left Myanmar two days ago for her first visit
to  Europe  in 24 years, and will tomorrow give the acceptance
speech at Oslo  City Hall . She was detained by Myanmar’s military
junta after winning elections in 1990 and was unable to travel
to collect her prize, which was accepted by her son, Alexander.  “It made an enormous impression on me when she got the
prize and wasn’t able to come,” Lundestad. “I remember well
when her son Alexander gave the acceptance speech on behalf of
his mother. Not many eyes stayed dry.”  Annual prizes for peace work, physics, chemistry, medicine,
and literature were established in the will of  Alfred Nobel , the
Swedish inventor of dynamite who died in 1896, and they were
first awarded in 1901. The peace prize is handed out in Oslo and
the others in  Stockholm , including one for economics that was
established by  Sweden ’s central bank. Past laureates include
U.S. civil rights leader  Martin Luther King Jr ., President
 Barack Obama  and Mother Teresa.  Strong Positions  Suu Kyi will spend four days in Norway, meeting with Prime
Minister Jens Stoltenberg and King Harald and attending
conferences on peace work.  While the visit will be a celebration, Suu Kyi’s story will
remind the world of the 2010 laureate, jailed Chinese dissident
 Liu Xiaobo , who also was unable to attend his ceremony.  “They both hold a strong, moral position, and they have
been imprisoned for a long time,” Lundestad said. “But
conditions are much tougher for him,” Lundestad said, referring
to Suu Kyi’s 15 years of house arrest. Lundestad wouldn’t
speculate on when Liu would be able to travel to Oslo. “It’s
impossible to say if it will take him less than the 21 years it
took her. We can’t do more than hope.”  While the Nobel Committee is independent of the government,
Liu’s award has strained relations between  Norway  and  China  and
hampered trade. Former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik was
denied a visa to China this week, a decision “clearly” related
to the prize, he said.  Taking Risks  Bondevik, who now runs the Oslo Center for Peace and Human
Rights, said it was important to highlight the need for
political and civil rights by choosing a Chinese dissident for
the prize. He said the Nobel had worked as a protection for Suu
Kyi and that he hoped it would do the same for Liu.  “No regimes are the same,” Bondevik said in an interview
yesterday at the inauguration of the Aung San Suu Kyi World
Freedom Fund in Oslo. “We can’t know. But you have to take some
risks in awarding the prize.”  Lundestad said the committee had “no exaggerated ideas”
of what the prize can achieve as other impetus is also needed
for change. This was the case in Myanmar, where the opposition
was able to take part in by-elections in April, in which Suu Kyi
was elected to parliament, he said.  “Those reforms are sensational and very interesting, but a
lot remains to be done,” Lundestad said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  