-- Suu Kyi Calls for Clarity on Myanmar Citizenship After Fighting
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-06-14T11:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/suu-kyi-calls-for-clarity-on-myanmar-citizenship-after-fighting.html
Myanmar needs to clarify citizenship
laws and carefully police its borders in the wake of clashes
between Rakhine Buddhists and Rohingya Muslims that have killed
dozens, opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi said.  Myanmar President  Thein Sein  declared a state of emergency
on June 10 in western Rakhine state bordering Bangladesh in a
bid to end religious and ethnic clashes that erupted a week
earlier. Rohingyas have been denied citizenship and face
restrictions moving around the country.  “We have to be very clear about what the laws of
citizenship are and who are entitled to them,” Suu Kyi told
reporters in Geneva today when asked if Rohingyas should be
granted Myanmar citizenship. “All those who are entitled to
citizenship should be treated as full citizens deserving all the
rights that must be given to them.”  The clashes in western Myanmar highlight the difficulty in
unifying the country of 64 million people even after a military
junta that kept Suu Kyi under house arrest for 15 years shifted
to democracy. The Rohingyas are not among Myanmar’s 135 official
ethnic groups and those fleeing this month’s violence have also
been denied entry into neighboring  Bangladesh .  ‘Delicacy and Sensitivity’  The conflict in Rakhine “will have to be handled with
delicacy and sensitivity,” Suu Kyi said on her first trip to
 Europe  since 1988. “We need the cooperation of all people
concerned to regain the peace that we want for our country.”  The unrest began after an alleged rape prompted a mob of
about 300 Rakhine Buddhists to murder 10 Muslims on June 3,
according to New York-based  Human Rights Watch . Myanmar imposed
a dusk-to-dawn curfew in four towns in Rakhine and prohibited
more than five people from gathering in public areas at a time,
according to the state-run New Light of Myanmar newspaper.  Rohingyas,  Sunni Muslims  who are descended from Arab
traders, are prevented from obtaining citizenship and traveling
freely throughout Myanmar, according to  Human Rights Watch .
About 800,000 Rohingyas live in Myanmar, also known as Burma,
and 200,000 are in Bangladesh, the group estimates.  The U.S. State Department has linked the Muslim minority to
designated terrorist organization Harakat ul-Jihad-i-
Islami/Bangladesh, which it said in a 2010  report  “had trained
and fielded operatives in Burma to fight on behalf of the
Rohingya.” Bangladesh banned the group in 2005, the report
said.  ‘Victims’  Last year  Eric Schwartz , a deputy to Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , called Rohingyas he visited in Bangladesh
refugee camps “victims guilty of nothing other than a desire to
flee repression and create a better life for themselves.”
Clinton on June 11 said Rohingyas should be included in talks to
halt the violence.  Bangladesh saw influxes of about 250,000 Rohingya refugees
from Myanmar in 1978 and in the early 1990s, followed by
repatriation efforts “that were not wholly voluntary,” the
UNHCR’s policy development and evaluation service said in a
December  report .  “One of the greatest problems comes from the fear on both
sides of the border, that is to say Bangladesh as well as  Burma ,
that there will be illegal immigrants crossing all the time,”
Suu Kyi said, referring to her country by its former name.
“This is due to the porous border. We need more responsible,
uncorrupt border vigilance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  