-- Swiss Stocks Drop as SNB Says Banks Must Raise Capital
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-06-14T15:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/swiss-stocks-drop-as-snb-says-banks-must-raise-capital.html
Stocks in Switzerland  declined for
the first time in eight days as the  Swiss National Bank  said  UBS
AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG need to increase their capital
this year.  Credit Suisse, the country’s second-biggest bank, slumped
to the lowest in 19 years.  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  and Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA declined more than 1.5 percent each.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  fell 0.6 percent to 5,908.51 at the
close of trading in Zurich. The gauge has lost 6.8 percent from
its  2012 high  on March 16 amid mounting concern that  Greece  will
have to leave the euro currency union. The broader Swiss
Performance Index declined 0.7 percent today.  “The SNB’s comments on Credit Suisse only added to the
uncertainties on the market that have been and will be present
until we see the outcome of the Greek new elections,” said
Christoph Riniker, head of strategy research at Julius Baer
Group Ltd. in Zurich. “Hence investors will be on the sell side
in the short term. We need to see some confirmations before
we’ll see a calming of the markets.”  Greeks head to the polls on June 17 after an inconclusive
May 6 election in which a left-wing group opposed to spending
cuts required for obtaining international aid came in the second
place.  Banks Decline  Credit Suisse tumbled 10 percent to 17.01 Swiss francs, the
lowest since September 1992, after the SNB said the lender needs
a “marked increase” in capital this year to prepare for risks
stemming from the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “For Credit Suisse, given the low starting point and the
risks in the environment, it is essential that it already
substantially expand its loss-absorbing capital base during the
current year,” the SNB said in its annual financial stability
report.  “The third dividend cut in three years may be a precursor
to significant management changes, which will cause further
uncertainty,” said  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst with
Mediobanca SpA. “In addition, while the bank has been vigorous
in de-leveraging, it may have to do more and reduce its credit-
trading risk appetite.”  The  central bank , which also recommended that UBS boost
capital, said improvements can be achieved by suspending
dividend payments or selling new shares in addition to the
banks’ plans for cutting assets. UBS fell 0.3 percent to 11.12
francs.  The SNB maintained the currency ceiling at 1.20 francs per
euro and reiterated that it will uphold the measure “with the
utmost determination.” It also kept its benchmark  interest rate 
on hold, as projected by all 20 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Spanish Credit Rating  Moody’s yesterday cut  Spain ’s rating three steps to Baa3,
one level above junk, from A3, citing the nation’s increased
debt burden, weakening economy and limited access to  capital
markets . Moody’s also lowered Cyprus’s bond rating to Ba3 from
Ba1. Spain’s 10-year bond yield rose to a euro-era record today.  Italy’s yields reached the highest in almost five months as
the Mediterranean nation prepared to auction 4.5 billion euros
($5.7 billion) of three-, seven- and eight-year bonds. Its
borrowing costs climbed at a sale of 12-month bills yesterday.  In the U.S., a Labor Department report showed that  first-
time applications  for  unemployment benefits  unexpectedly climbed
by 6,000 to 386,000 in the week ended June 9 from a revised
380,000 the prior week that was more than first estimated.
Economists had forecast a drop to 375,000, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Swatch, the world’s largest watchmaker, fell 2.4 percent to
356 francs, while Richemont, the owner of the Cartier brand,
retreated 1.7 percent to 52.05 francs.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  lost 1.4 percent to 49.53 francs.  Sika AG , Europe’s biggest maker of chemicals used in
construction, slid 4.9 percent to 1,778 francs on its first day
trading on the 30-company Swiss Leader Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  