-- U.K. Softens Vickers’ Bank Proposals, Prompting Criticism
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-06-14T17:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/u-k-to-let-protected-consumer-banks-undertake-simple-hedging.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  softened the recommendations of the Independent
Commission on Banking on how much capital lenders must hold,
prompting criticism from the report’s author.  In the government’s first detailed response to the
proposals made by former Bank of England Chief Economist  John Vickers , the Treasury said that banks will only have to hold 3
percent of capital against total assets in line with Basel III
requirements rather than the 4.06 percent recommended in the
ICB’s September report. That will make it less costly for banks.  “The white paper proposals are far reaching, but on some
points, such as limits on the leverage of big banks, we believe
they should go further,” Vickers said in an e-mailed statement
today. We “urge the government to resist pressure to weaken
their effectiveness,” he said.  Osborne is adopting the overwhelming majority of the
Vickers report, which recommended that banks separate consumer
and investment banking operations and each have a separate board
with at least two thirds of their members sitting on only one
board. Banks will also be forced to have their own risk
committees.  “This paper now ensures that the government is more
willing to toe the Basel III, European line,” Chirantan Barua,
an analyst at Sanford Bernstein Research in  London , said in a
note to investors. “This will come as a big relief to the U.K.
banks.”  Currency Hedging  In a further softening of the ICB’s proposals, Britain will
allow the consumer units of banks operating in the U.K. to hedge
currencies and some simple derivatives for small and mid-sized
companies. More complex derivatives trades won’t be allowed.
Vickers last year proposed all those functions remain outside
the consumer operations of a bank.  The Treasury said banks’ consumer units should boost the
amount of loss-absorbing equity and debt they hold to 17
percent, at the low end of the range suggested by Vickers who
proposed they hold as much as 20 percent.  The opposition  Labour Party  attacked Osborne for not
presenting the plans in Parliament.  Ed Balls , who shadows
Osborne in Parliament for Labour, said the government has
“watered down and fudged” Vickers’s plans following its
failure to get international backing for the reform package.  The Treasury plans to pass all legislation relating to
Vickers recommendations by 2015 and fully implement them by
2019, resisting pressure from the industry to slow down their
adoption. Banks will have to build so called “high and
flexible” firewalls between their consumer and investment
operations. Their overseas operations will be exempt if they are
deemed to pose no potential risk to taxpayers. Consumer banks
will be prevented from holding equity of the other units.  Depositors Protected  The proposed legislation will also include plans to
increase competition and put bank customers first among
creditors in the event of a failure, the so-called “depositor
preference” advocated by Vickers.  Osborne will exempt smaller banks from the rules so that
only institutions big enough to threaten the viability of the
financial sector have to implement them. Banks such as  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  with operations outside the U.K. that aren’t a risk
to financial system will be excluded from having to hold larger
loss-absorbing buffers.  Vickers’s report proposed that the units inside the
firewalls will handle all checking accounts, mortgages, credit
cards and lending to small and medium-size companies. As much as
a third of U.K. bank assets, or about 2.3 trillion pounds ($3.6
trillion), and 90 percent of deposits will be included,
according to the recommendations. Trading and investment-banking
activities will be outside the firewalls.  The proposals will cost U.K. banks as much as 7 billion
pounds a year, while the annual benefit to the economy will be
9.5 billion pounds, the Treasury said.  The plans “balance safety with the needs for growth,” the
British Bankers’ Association Chief Executive Officer  Angela Knight  said in a statement today. Questions remain over costs
and banks need to be assured they won’t be subject to competing
rules, Knight said. It is also unclear how the plans will affect
U.K. banks that mainly operate abroad, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  