-- U.S. Consumer Prices Probably Fell for First Time in Two Years
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-06-14T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/u-s-consumer-prices-probably-fell-for-first-time-in-two-years.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably fell in May for the first time in two years as fuel
prices retreated, buttressing Federal Reserve projections that
cheaper commodities will help reduce inflation, economists said
before a report today.  The consumer-price index decreased 0.2 percent after no
change in April, according to the median forecast of 78
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The so-called core
measure, which excludes volatile food and fuel costs, may have
climbed 0.2 percent for a third month. Another report may show
jobless claims were little changed last week.  Cheaper energy costs may provide some relief for Americans
against a backdrop of moderating job and wage gains that have
slowed  consumer spending . With inflation cooling, Fed policy
makers also have more flexibility to take further action to
bolster U.S. economic growth.  “Subdued is the right word for the inflation outlook,”
said Steven Blitz, chief economist at ITG Investment Research
Inc. in  New York . “Assuming that what we currently see in terms
of wages and employment growth continues, that will be a lid on
prices. The Fed recognizes that the risk to inflation right now
is lower rather than higher.”  The Labor Department will release the data at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a decrease of 0.6
percent to an increase of 0.2 percent.  Consumer prices advanced 1.8 percent over the past year,
the smallest gain since January 2011, according to the survey
median. The core index is projected to increase 2.2 percent from
May 2011.  Fed’s Bernanke  “Substantial resource slack in U.S. labor and product
markets should continue to restrain inflationary pressures,”
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress’s Joint Economic
Committee last week. With a “subdued” inflation outlook, high
unemployment and “strains in global financial markets,” the
central bank anticipates it will keep its benchmark lending rate
near zero though late 2014, he said.  Fed policy makers, who projected the run-up in energy costs
would subside, aim for 2 percent inflation as part of their dual
mandate of stable prices and maximum employment. Their preferred
price gauge, issued by the Commerce Department and tied to
consumer spending, rose 1.8 percent in the 12 months ended in
April, the smallest gain in more than a year.  Falling energy costs are helping hold down inflation. The
 cost  of a gallon of regular gasoline at the pump fell to $3.54
through June 12 from a 10-month high of $3.94 in early April,
figures from automobile club AAA show.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said last week she sees more
scope for easing, while San Francisco Fed President  John
Williams , a voting member of the FOMC this year, called on
policy makers to stand ready to act should the recovery falter.  Jobs, Wages  Labor Department figures showed June 1 that employers in
May added the fewest workers in a year, further restraining
consumers’ buying power. Average hourly earnings rose 1.7
percent in May from the same month last year, the smallest
increase since December 2010.  First-time applications for  unemployment benefits  dropped
by 2,000 to 375,000 last week, according to the median
projection in a Bloomberg survey before the Labor Department’s
data at 8:30 a.m. With claims averaging 373,500 this year, the
estimated figure shows scant improvement in the job market.  Inflation expectations have “definitely come down,” David
Tehle, chief financial officer of  Dollar General Corp. (DG) , said
during a June 4 earnings call. The Goodlettsville, Tennessee-
based dollar-store chain anticipates 0.5 percent inflation for
the full year, compared with 2 percent in the final three months
of 2011, Tehle said.  Commodity Prices  Dollar General  expects no apparel inflation this year and
sees broad slowing in commodity prices, Chief Executive Officer
 Rick Dreiling  said during the call.  A Labor Department report yesterday showed prices paid to
producers dropped 1 percent in May, the most since July 2009.
Import prices in the U.S., reported June 12, also decreased
1 percent.  The CPI is the broadest of the three monthly price measures
from the Labor Department because it includes goods and
services. About 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers
pay for services ranging from medical visits to airline fares
and movie tickets.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  