-- U.S. Housing Rebound Evident in Bond Yield Gap: Credit Markets
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-06-14T15:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/u-s-housing-rebound-evident-in-bond-yield-gap-credit-markets.html
Investors are accepting the lowest
yields since the real estate boom peaked in 2005 on the debt of
U.S. homebuilders relative to the rest of the junk-bond market
as evidence mounts that housing is on the rebound.  Homebuilder yields have fallen 1.1 percentage points below
the average for U.S. speculative-grade notes, the biggest gap
since September 2005, after the housing bust pushed them above
the average. Debt of  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV)  to Los Angeles-
based  KB Home (KBH)  has returned 11 percent this year, the highest for
the period since 2009 and more than double the 5 percent gain
for junk overall, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The  housing market  is stabilizing, bolstering the balance
sheets of those builders that survived the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression, even as the world’s biggest
economy shows signs of weakness. Home prices advanced 1.1
percent in April from a year earlier, according to data provider
CoreLogic Inc., while purchases of new homes rose to an almost
two-year high as record-low  mortgage rates  lure buyers.  “After a couple of challenging years, people feel that the
worst is over,” said  Sabur Moini , who manages about $2.5
billion of high-yield assets at Los Angeles-based Payden &
Rygel. Moini, who owns bonds of KB Home and  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , said
in a telephone interview that housing prices have probably
“bottomed out.”  ‘More Confidence’  Credit-default swaps on the 10 biggest homebuilders climbed
15 percent since the end of April to 348.6 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s half the 32
percent increase in the cost of protection on the benchmark
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which rose as
U.S. employers added the smallest number of jobs in a year in
May.  “People have gained some more confidence in the
fundamentals,” said Jennifer Machan, a senior high-yield
analyst in  Des Moines ,  Iowa , at Principal Global Investors,
which manages $258 billion. “Home prices are starting to show
some stabilization.”  Homebuilder bonds yielded 1.135 percentage points less than
speculative-grade debt on June 8, the least since Sept. 29,
2005, Bank of America Merrill Lynch Index data show. Over the
past seven years, yields in the U.S. junk market were 0.8
percentage points less than the homebuilder index on average.  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. fell, with the Markit
CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declining by 1.6 basis points to a mid-price of 123.3 basis
points as of 11:51 a.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, rose 0.41 basis point to 30.85 basis points
as of 11:52 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors
seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows
when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of  General Electric Co. (GE)  are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with
42 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:51 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Home Prices  Home price declines are easing. Values in 20 U.S. cities
fell 2.6 percent in the 12 months through March, the slowest
pace in more than a year, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller
index. Prices will likely rise 1.4 percent next year, 3.7
percent in 2014 and 4.4 percent in 2015, JPMorgan analysts led
by  John Sim  wrote in a June 12 report.  “There’s less of a fear of another major drop,” Martha Ucko, an analyst at CreditSights Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “The builders prepped their balance sheets and their
businesses to survive at these levels.”  Purchases of  new homes  in the U.S. rose 3.3 percent in
April from the previous month to an annual pace of 343,000, the
Commerce Department said May 23. Homeowners are benefiting from
falling borrowing costs. The average 30-year U.S. mortgage rate
dropped to 3.67 percent in the week ended June 7, down from 5.05
percent in February 2011, and the lowest since McLean, Virginia-
based  Freddie Mac  began records in 1971.  An  index  of housing affordability is at the highest level
in data going back to 1986, according to the National
Association of Realtors. The gauge, which is updated every
quarter, climbed to 205.9 at the end of March.  Recovery Stage  “People are a bit more confident about purchasing homes,”
said Bob Curran, a New York-based analyst at  Fitch Ratings .
“You need a catalyst and there’s been pent-up demand as people
had deferred on buying homes.”  Hovnanian  earned  $1.8 million in the three months ended
April 30, after losing money for the previous eight quarters,
Bloomberg data show. The  Red Bank , New Jersey-based company’s
$797 million of 10.625 percent notes due October 2016 climbed to
90.5 cents for a yield of 13.6 percent on June 12 from 80 cents
and 16.9 percent at the end of last year, Trace data show.  “We’re encouraged that the homebuilding industry may be
entering the early stages of recovery,”  Larry Sorsby ,
Hovnanian’s chief financial officer, said yesterday at a
conference organized by Deutsche Bank AG.  Toll Brothers  At  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , orders climbed to 1,290 homes in the
first quarter from 879 a year earlier. Hovnanian’s net contracts
for its fiscal second quarter jumped to 1,775 homes from 1,166 a
year earlier.  Yields on some homebuilders’ junk-rated debt are at or
approaching levels of investment-grade companies.  The debt of Toll Brothers, based in Horsham,  Pennsylvania ,
yields 4.05 percent on average, better than the 4.12 percent for
BBB rated companies, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. The yield on  Fort Worth , Texas-based DR Horton Inc.’s
bonds averages 4.16 percent, while that of Ryland Group Inc.,
based in  Westlake Village ,  California , is 4.74 percent.  Lack of issuance by the companies is partly responsible for
the low yields, according to Principal’s Machan.  “Anything available to buy has been getting grabbed in a
hurry,” said Machan, who doesn’t own any homebuilder bonds.
“People don’t want to be short the sector anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  