-- U.S. Consumer Bureau Seeks Input on Elder Financial Abuse
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-06-14T16:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/u-s-consumer-bureau-seeks-input-on-elder-financial-abuse.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau today announced it is seeking public comments
as part of an inquiry into financial exploitation of senior
citizens.  “Older Americans have lost billions of dollars to the
silent crime of financial exploitation,” the bureau’s director,
 Richard Cordray , said in an e-mailed statement. “Our older
adult population is growing every year, which makes it even more
critical that we study this issue.”  The bureau hired Hubert H. “Skip” Humphrey III, a former
Minnesota attorney general, to head its Office of Older
Americans in October. Cordray, a former Ohio attorney general,
said their experiences suggest elder financial abuse is a
serious issue.  “Get us together and we can tell you horrifying stories
about these crimes -– people looted of their pension benefits,
or talked into investing much of their life savings in endless
varieties of fraudulent schemes,” Cordray said at a White House
event to mark World Elder Abuse Awareness Day. The victims often
end up poor and “in a nursing home at the expense of American
taxpayers.”  Americans age 60 and older lost at least $2.9 billion to
financial exploitation in 2010, up 12 percent from 2008, the
bureau said, citing a study by the  MetLife Mature Market
Institute . Victims are most often women, and abuse comes most
frequently at the hands of family members, the study found.  “In order to help older Americans, we must also reach out
to the millions of Americans who are positioned to be the
guardians and protectors of their aging parents,” Cordray said
in at the White House.  Seeking Resources  The bureau said in the statement it is seeking information
on what resources are available to help with decisions on
choosing financial advisers, and on evaluating their
credentials. More broadly, it wants information on financial
literacy efforts aimed at older Americans.  It is also seeking information on “unfair, abusive or
deceptive” practices targeted at Americans age 62 and over,
including veterans.  “We are also concerned about military pension buyout
schemes,” Cordray said at the White House. “Military retirees
are offered lump-sum cash payments in return for surrendering
their rights to their pension payouts. These schemes are usually
very bad deals for the retirees.”  Public comments are due by Aug. 13.  “We will use the information we collect to inform policy
making processes,” Cordray said. “We want to know what is
working and what is not, so that we can fix what is not
working.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  