-- Unibail-Rodamco to Enter Germany in Perella Weinberg Deal
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-06-14T15:50:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/unibail-rodamco-to-enter-german-market-in-perella-weinberg-deal.html
Unibail-Rodamco SE (UL) ,  Europe ’s largest
publicly traded real-estate company, agreed to buy most of
 Germany ’s second-biggest shopping-mall operator to gain a
presence in Europe’s largest economy.  A fund managed by Perella Weinberg Partners LP will sell 51
percent of the company that controls Mfi Management fuer
Immobilien AG to Unibail-Rodamco for 297 million euros ($373
million), the Paris-based acquirer said in a statement today.
Unibail-Rodamco has a three-year option to buy the rest of
shares for an additional 288 million euros.  The acquisition of Mfi and the purchase of a 50 percent
stake in the Ruhr Park mall in Bochum not owned by Mfi will give
Unibail-Rodamco six shopping centers in Germany valued at about
1.5 billion euros. Mfi is building four more malls in the
country with an estimated value of 530 million euros and manages
20 centers for other companies.  “With no presence to Europe’s strongest economy, this move
makes sense,” said  Robert Duncan , an analyst at Jefferies Group
Inc. with a buy rating on Unibail-Rodamco shares. Mfi is
Germany’s largest mall operator after ECE Projektmanagement
GmbH.  Unibail-Rodamco gained 2.4 euros, or 1.8 percent, to 138.35
euros in Paris. The shares have dropped 11 percent in the past
12 months, reducing the company’s market value to 12.7 billion
euros.  Earnings Boost  The transaction values Mfi at 1.1 billion euros, including
assumed debt, and the real estate generates an income equivalent
to a net 5.5 percent of the purchase price, the company said.  “Unibail-Rodamco has paid a stiff price for entering
Germany, but the strategic rationale had become logical, given
the superior state of the German economy,” said Arjan Knibbe,
an analyst at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam with a buy rating on the
shares.  The acquisition will start adding to Unibail-Rodamco’s
recurring profit per share immediately, the company said without
being more specific. Recurring profit is defined as earnings
excluding changes in the value of properties and interest-rate
derivatives.  The price reflects competition between investors for retail
assets in Germany, where shoppers have less debt than those in
most other European countries, there is a low provision of
shopping centers relative to the size of the population and
exports are enabling the economy to grow.  Sales Proceeds  Unibail-Rodamco is investing the  proceeds  from disposals of
smaller centers or malls with limited scope to generate more
rent. The company raised 1.3 billion euros from divestments last
year. Chief Executive Officer Guillaume Poitrinal has focused on
owning large shopping centers, with big-name brands, that
dominate their region  The French company is also planning to enter  Portugal 
through the acquisition of  Almada Forum  and  Forum Montijo  from a
fund controlled by Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG, according to
two people with knowledge of the transaction, which is under
negotiation. An informal agreement has yet to be signed.  Leon Bressler, a former Unibail-Rodamco CEO, is a partner
at Perella Weinberg in Europe and Mfi’s deputy chairman, which
probably gave Poitrinal “privileged access” in the deal,
Knibbe at ING said.  Bressler “is very well placed to know what Unibail-Rodamco
can do,” Poitrinal said at a press conference in Paris today.  Perella Weinberg Real Estate Fund I, the European fund run
by the New York-based investment bank established six years ago,
acquired its controlling stake in Mfi in 2010. The balance is
owned by Chairman Roger Weiss, who founded the company in 1987.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 