-- Unpredictable Clean-Energy Policies Hurt U.S., Senator Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-06-14T17:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/unpredictable-clean-energy-policies-hurt-u-s-senator-says-1-.html
The lack of consistent U.S. support
for clean-energy production has put the nation at a disadvantage
with  China , where the government has been investing in
companies, a senior Senate Democrat said.  “The U.S. cannot compete on a level playing field with
countries that have strong industrial policies when our own
policies have been so inconsistent and erratic,” Senator  Jeff Bingaman  of  New Mexico , chairman of the Energy and Natural
Resources committee, said today at a hearing in Washington.  Clean-energy manufacturers in China and the U.S. are
grappling with an economic downturn, and government aid to boost
production has added to tensions between the nations. The Obama
administration in May imposed duties on solar- and wind-energy
imports from China, while the Beijing government filed a
complaint with the  World Trade Organization  alleging that U.S.
anti-subsidy measures undercut $7.3 billion in Chinese goods,
including solar panels.  While the U.S. “should continue to rigorously enforce its
trade laws” to be competitive, “additional domestic measures
are likely to be needed if the U.S. is to fully compete” on
clean energy, Bingaman said.  The China Development Bank Corp. since 2010 has made
available $47.3 billion in credit, which hasn’t been fully
tapped, to support the country’s wind and solar manufacturers,
according to a Bloomberg New Energy Finance study in October.  U.S. Loans  The U.S. has aided clean-energy companies with loan
guarantees from the 2009 economic stimulus law and incentives
such as a production tax credit for  wind energy , which ends this
year. The Energy Department has guaranteed about $14.9 billion
in lending for wind- and solar-power initiatives, mainly for
generation, according to the agency.  Policymakers should consider China’s policies when
considering U.S. responses, including what the U.S. can afford
to spend, according to Senator  Lisa Murkowski  of  Alaska , the top
Republican on the panel.  “Imitating China is not necessarily the best way to
compete with China,” where production of raw materials for
energy use has harmed air and water quality, she said.  The U.S. leads China in innovation and shouldn’t seek to
match the financial investment in clean energy just to keep up,
said Derek Scissors, a senior research fellow at the Washington-
based  Heritage Foundation , a group that backs limited government
and a strong national defense.  “Money should not be the metric,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  