-- Lira Weakens 1st Time in 3 Days on Moving Average, Spain Rating
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-06-14T11:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/turkish-lira-weakens-first-time-in-three-days-bonds-unchanged.html
The Turkish lira weakened for the
first time in three days as it faced resistance after nearing a
key technical level and  Spain ’s credit rating was cut, hurting
demand for the riskier emerging-market assets.  The Turkish currency depreciated 0.1 percent to 1.8222 per
dollar at 1:06 p.m. in Istanbul, trimming its gain this year to
3.8 percent, the biggest appreciation among major developed and
emerging-market currencies after the Colombian peso.  The lira has appreciated 2.5 percent since May 31,
approaching its 200-day moving-day average of 1.8146, a key
level for technical analysts, in intraday trade today. On May
31,  Turkey  announced its trade deficit for April narrowed more
than expected, contracting for a sixth month and beating analyst
estimates. Its current-account deficit retreated in April for a
sixth month, the central bank said June 11. Global stocks
dropped and Spain’s bond yields rose to a euro-era record after
the country’s credit rating was cut to one level above junk by
Moody’s Investors Service yesterday.  “The risk appetite has simply run out of steam and
therefore we were unable to breach the 200-day moving-average
support,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt , said in e-mailed comments. “Spanish yields are
rising again so markets are definitely putting pressure on
periphery countries again,” she added.  In technical analysis, crossing the 200-day moving average
threshold and remaining above it is an indication the currency’s
move may be sustained.  “Local companies have a constant foreign-exchange need and
they want to meet some of this demand after the lira declined
from levels around 1.87 to 1.8150,” Burcin Metin, chief
currency trader at ING Bank AS in Istanbul, said in e-mailed
comments.  The  yield  on benchmark two-year bonds was unchanged at 9.18
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  