-- Uruguay Quarterly GDP Quickens on Transport, Communications
-- B y   L u c i a   B a l d o m i r
-- 2012-06-14T18:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/uruguay-quarterly-gdp-quickens-on-transport-communications-2-.html
Uruguay’s economic growth quickened
in the first quarter, spurred by increased transport and
communications.  Gross domestic product  expanded 4.2 percent from a year
earlier and grew 1.9 percent from the fourth quarter of 2011,
the central bank said today on its website. In the final quarter
of last year, the economy grew 3.5 percent year-on-year and
contracted 1.6 percent from the previous period.  Growth was led by transport and communications, which
expanded 9.4 percent, while retailers boosted activity 5
percent, the bank said. Construction expanded 12.9 percent,
mainly because of the building of a 2 billion dollar pulp mill
in the west of the country, the bank said. A shutdown at the
state oil refinery until mid-February caused industrial output
to shrink 1.2 percent. Drought led to a 22 percent contraction
in electricity, gas and water supplies.  In March, the policy makers left the overnight lending rate
at 8.75 percent while signaling concern about increasing
inflationary pressures in an uncertain global context. Consumer
prices rose 8.06 percent in May from a year earlier, the fastest
rate of increase since December, the national statistics
institute reported on June 4.  Argentina, Global Outlook  Last year, the agriculture-based economy grew 5.7 percent,
fueled by growing domestic demand and increased exports.
Analysts expect 4.45 percent expansion in 2012 according to the
median of 10 economist surveyed by the central bank in May.  Import restrictions by neighboring  Argentina  and the impact
of the global economic crisis held back growth in the first
quarter, said Ramiro Almada, an economist at Oikos research firm
in Montevideo.  “We expected an impact from the refinery and other
industry sectors affected by Argentina’s trade barriers and the
international crisis,” Almada said.  “In the next quarter
there may be a slight contraction because of the global crisis
but we estimate that the economy will grow 4 percent this
year.”  The yield on Uruguayan dollar bonds maturing in 2022 fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.43 percent, at
2:19 p.m.  New York  time. The price of the securities rose 0.12
cent to 139.71 cents on the dollar.  Policy makers will meet July 3 to discuss the benchmark
rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Baldomir in Montevideo at 
 lbaldomir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  