-- US Airways Sees Progress Toward American Airlines Merger
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-06-14T20:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/us-airways-sees-progress-toward-american-airlines-merger.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  is making
“great progress” toward a merger with  American Airlines  that
would cure network failings at the  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  unit, Chief
Executive Officer Doug Parker said.  American’s push to restructure in bankruptcy as a stand-
alone carrier won’t be enough to fix weaknesses at the third-
largest U.S. airline, including a loss of market share, Parker
said today at US Airways’ annual meeting in New York.  Parker’s comments extended his public pressure for a tie-up
with American, which has said it wants to exit Chapter 11 and
then consider a combination, with itself as a likely acquirer.
US Airways expects American to begin considering alternatives to
its own plan after resolving labor concessions, possibly later
this month, he said.  “That’s all we’re asking for -- a chance to show our plan
against others,” Parker said at the meeting. “We’re highly
confident the benefits of the network would be far superior to
any other alternative available to American today.”  US Airways has received “tremendous” support from
bondholders and analysts for a merger with  Fort Worth , Texas-
based AMR, Parker said. A combination of American and US Airways
would surpass United parent United Continental Holdings Inc. as
the world’s largest airline based on passenger traffic.  Unit Revenue  American’s restructuring strategy is already showing
progress, with an industry-leading unit revenue performance, as
well as operational and customer service that are “the best
they’ve been in many years,”  Andy Backover , a spokesman, said
in an e-mailed statement.  “Our hub locations and our international alliance and
joint-venture partners place us in an enviable position relative
to the highest concentrations of high-value customers,”
Backover said. “All of this progress supports our confidence in
the strength of our plan for success.”  US Airways rose 4.3 percent to $12.48 at the close in  New
York . The shares have more than doubled this year.  The judge overseeing AMR’s bankruptcy has said he’ll rule
by June 22 on whether the company can void existing labor
contracts, unless concessionary agreements are reached first.
American has failed to secure accords in the most recent round
of talks with unions for flight attendants and mechanics, and is
continuing negotiations with  pilots . The airline wants to cut
annual labor costs by $1.25 billion during its restructuring.  American in May reached an agreement with the unsecured
creditors committee in its bankruptcy to explore options to its
stand-alone plan.  Market Share  Compared with before American sat out a wave of airline
consolidation earlier in this decade, the carrier’s market share
has fallen to No. 4 from third in the western U.S., to fourth
from first in the country’s midsection and to fifth from third
in the East.  “This is a structural weakness the bankruptcy cannot
fix,” Parker said. A combination of Tempe, Arizona-based  US
Airways  and American would be first in market share in the U.S.
East and midsection and third in the West, he said.  “Put them together and the result is a network that can
compete with anyone,” Parker said.  US Airways has reached tentative contracts with American’s
three largest unions, and leaders of those labor groups attended
today’s shareholder meeting. US Airways is working to build
support among AMR’s unsecured creditors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  