-- UVA Faculty Sentate Expresses No Confidence in Board
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-06-15T00:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/uva-board-to-meet-with-faculty-over-president-s-sudden-ouster.html
The University of  Virginia ’s faculty
expressed a lack of confidence in the school’s leadership today
following the sudden resignation June 10 of President Teresa Sullivan.  The faculty Senate passed a resolution supporting Sullivan
and saying it lacked confidence in the university’s rector, vice
rector and board of visitors, according to an e-mailed
statement. The rector and visitors serve as the corporate board
and are responsible for the long-term planning of the
university.  “We offer this resolution mindful of the best interest of
the university and the Commonwealth,” the Senate said in the
statement.  Sullivan this week said she’s stepping down because of a
“philosophical difference of opinion.” She began at the school
in 2010 after serving as provost of the  University of Michigan 
and plans to leave on Aug. 15.  Rector Helen Dragas today issued an invitation to meet with
the faculty Senate, though a meeting hasn’t yet been set up,
Carol Wood, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  In a letter to faculty members, Dragas said “matters of
disagreement” would be kept confidential.  “We comprehend how deeply the entire university family
feels a sense of loss and distress at what appeared to be an
abrupt turn of events,” Dragas said in a June 13 statement.
“We have heard your concern that our deliberation on this
matter was not inclusive of the faculty or transparent to the
university community.”  Another Resignation  Peter Kiernan, the chairman of the Darden School Foundation
Board of Trustees, resigned today, apologizing for an  e-mail  he
sent to other trustees after Sullivan’s resignation.  Darden  is
UVA’s business school. In the e-mail, Kiernan said that several
weeks ago, he talked with two university alumni about a
strategic initiative involving Dragas and a search process for
it, according to the text of the e-mail published by Virginia
newspaper The Daily Progress.  Founded in 1819 by  Thomas Jefferson , the school’s alumni
include actress and writer  Tina Fey  and journalist  Katie Couric .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  
 jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 