-- VF’s Vans Unit to Add Athletic Shoes to Challenge Nike
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-06-14T20:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/vf-s-vans-unit-to-add-athletic-shoes-to-challenge-nike.html
VF Corp. (VFC) ’s Vans skateboarding and
stunt-biking shoe brand for teens plans to expand into athletic
footwear to compete with  Nike Inc. (NKE)   VF will start selling the Vans LXVI, named for Vans’
founding in 1966, at sporting-goods and athletic retailers
including  Foot Locker Inc. (FL)  and Footaction in two weeks, Kevin Bailey, Vans’ president, said today in an interview at Bloomberg
News headquarters in New York. The line is part of Vans’ push to
boost sales by $1 billion to $2.2 billion in five years.  The shoe, starting at $70, is aimed at young consumers who
“are more likely to be a teen walking around the streets in a
pair of running shoes or basketball shoes,” said Bailey, 51.
“This brings a new consumer into the Vans stable of footwear.”  The new release from VF, the world’s largest apparel maker,
comes as sales of skating shoes in the U.S. declined 2 percent
to $504 million in the 12 months through April, according to NPD
Group. The overall U.S. athletic shoe market increased 0.7
percent to $25.9 billion in the same period, the  Port
Washington , New York-based group said.  Sales of athletic footwear have been growing as companies
such as Nike, the world’s largest sneaker maker, introduce more
premium technical shoes that also double as fashion accessories.
Revenue in the running category has been surging as consumers
buy brightly colored, lightweight shoes to wear more with jeans
than for jogging.  ‘The Same Shoes’  “People are buying shoes that have all kinds of technical
attributes and then wearing them to the mall,” said  Matt
Powell , an analyst for SportsOneSource in Scarborough,  Maine . In
skateboarding footwear, “there really hasn’t been any newness
injected into the industry. People have been making basically
the same shoes over and over again, and each season they sell a
little less well.”  Vans raised the heel of its new shoe to give it a more
athletic feel and makes it without sewing and seams, Bailey
said. The company also changed the checkerboard pattern on the
bottom of its traditional Vans shoes to create a more flexible
sole.  “We see a mainstreaming of action sports,” Bailey said.
“Now it’s just another activity in their lives -- the
basketball player who skateboards home or the soccer player who
puts away the cleats at winter time and pulls out the
snowboard.”  VF, which also owns Timberland and 7 For All Mankind, plans
to sell the new shoes globally, including in 350 Foot Locker
stores and 50 Footaction stores in the U.S.  VF advanced 1.2 percent to $139.75 at the close in  New
York . The shares have risen 10 percent this year.  Quadrupled Sales  Vans has about quadrupled sales since its 2004  acquisition 
by Greensboro, North Carolina-based VF. Vans is one of VF’s so-
called “lifestyle brands,” along with North Face and Reef,
that are meant appeal to consumers who want to dress like
mountain climbers and surfers even when they’re not.  About half of the $1 billion in sales Vans expects to add
will come from the Western Hemisphere as the brand works to draw
more sales outside of the U.S. West Coast, the company said
today in a statement.  About $350 million of the gain will come from  Europe , where
sales in constant dollars rose 55 percent last year, the company
said.  “Brands like Vans are authentic,” Eric Wiseman, VF’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said in an interview
today. “You can go back to the early days of skateboarding in
the ’60s. It’s not some model showing a product in an ad.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  