-- Visteon Shareholders Elect Directors Supporing Revamp
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-06-14T20:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/visteon-shareholders-elect-directors-supporing-revamp.html
Visteon Corp. (VC) , the auto-parts maker
shopping two of its four units, took another step toward
remaking itself today as shareholders elected nominees who
support revamping the company.  Shareholders voted today to re-elect directors Duncan
Cocroft, Kevin Dowd, Jeffrey D. Jones, Tim Leuliette, Chief
Executive Officer Don Stebbins and Harry J. Wilson and to add
Robert Manzo, a consultant to troubled companies nominated by a
“significant shareholder,” according to a proxy statement. The
company said in April that four directors would not stand for
re-election, giving control to directors pushing a makeover.  The voting results were disclosed by  Jim Fisher , a company
spokesman, in a telephone interview.  Visteon, which left bankruptcy in 2010, has been shedding
lower-margin revenue in interiors and lighting to focus on
faster-growing operations in Asia.  Stebbins hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Rothschild for
advice for a strategic review, the company said Oct. 17.
Independent board members such as Wilson and Leuliette pressed
Stebbins to interview banks to help streamline the supplier, two
people familiar with the process said in October.  The company reported a first-quarter net loss of $29
million, its second consecutive quarterly deficit after four
straight profitable quarters. Visteon, based in  Van Buren
Township , Michigan, has been plagued by losses since it was spun
off in 2000 by Ford Motor Co. The supplier has expanded business
with automakers other than Ford and narrowed its product
offerings.  Visteon Sales  “When the market thinks about focused growth stories,
Visteon isn’t top of mind,” Matthew Stover, an analyst at
Guggenheim Securities LLC, said in an interview before the
shareholders meeting.  Visteon declined to 0.5 percent $38.56 at the close in New
York. The shares have dropped 23 percent this year after falling
33 percent in 2011.  Visteon began simplifying its corporate structure in
November when it signed a nonbinding memorandum of understanding
to sell most of its interiors unit to Yanfeng Visteon, the
Chinese joint venture with  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104)   The company agreed to sell its lighting unit to Varroc
Group of  India  in March for $92 million. The unit, which
supplies automotive exterior lights, had revenue of $531 million
last year. Visteon Oct. 31 sold a part of its stake in Duckyang
Industry Co., an interiors joint venture, and it no longer had a
controlling interest.  Market Capitalization  Visteon also plans to buy the remaining 30 percent of  Halla
Climate Control Corp. (018880) , a publicly traded Daejeon, South Korea-
based maker of vehicle air conditioners and heaters, five people
familiar with the plans said in October.  The company’s market capitalization, $2.03 billion as of
yesterday, has been less than the value of its stakes in Halla
and Shanghai-based Yanfeng Visteon Automotive Trim Systems Co.,
the venture with SAIC, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Visteon now has about 40 percent of the revenue it had in
2000, when it spun off from  Ford. (F)  Originally dependent on the
North American market, in 2011 Visteon got 42 percent of its
sales from Asia and 36 percent from Europe. It counts  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380) , based in  Seoul , among its biggest customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in New York at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  