-- Vitro Bondholders Defeat Bankruptcy Plan Enforcement in U.S.
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-06-14T01:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/vitro-bondholders-defeat-bankruptcy-plan-enforcement-in-u-s-1-.html
Vitro SAB (VITROA)  lost its bid for a court
ruling enforcing its Mexican bankruptcy plan in the U.S. as a
federal judge ruled in favor of bondholders that have been
fighting the glassmaker’s restructuring.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Harlin DeWayne Hale in  Dallas  denied
Vitro’s request to enforce the plan following a hearing last
week on whether the proposal should be recognized in the U.S.,
according to a decision today.  Hale said that Vitro’s bankruptcy plan is “manifestly
contrary” to U.S. policy and can’t be enforced in the U.S. The
plan improperly extinguishes claims of bondholders against units
not in bankruptcy that guaranteed Vitro debt, he said.  “If approved for enforcement, the present order would
create precedent without any seeming bounds,” the judge wrote.  The decision is a setback for Vitro in its battle with
bondholders, who have called the company’s bankruptcy plan “a
testament to audacity, brazen manipulation and greed.” The two
sides have been fighting in courts in the U.S. and  Mexico  over
the plan following Vitro’s default. Bondholders have sued Vitro
units that guaranteed company debt to recover what they’re owed.  June 29  “The protection of third party claims in a bankruptcy case
is a fundamental policy of the  United States ,” the judge wrote
in his ruling. “The Concurso Approval Order does not simply
modify such claims against non-debtors, they are extinguished.”  Hale said his ruling is stayed until June 29 to give Vitro
time to file an appeal.  Donald Cutler, a spokesman for the bondholders, declined to
comment on the ruling.  Roberto Riva Palacio, a spokesman for Vitro, said the
company is disappointed with the ruling “at the subsidiary
level.” He said the company will continue to defend “the
validity of our restructuring” and will appeal the ruling.  “This decision will not impact our ability to serve our
U.S. customers due to the fact that our main subsidiary is
protected by a separate and distinct Concurso proceeding,” he
said in an e-mail. “Vitro’s financial restructuring was fully
consistent with Mexican law, which has been consistently
recognized and respected in the U.S.”  Vitro, which makes glass containers and car windshields,
defaulted on $1.5 billion of debt in 2009, including $1.2
billion of bonds, after construction and auto-glass sales
plunged. The company also incurred $340 million of derivative
losses.  ‘Utter Chaos’  Vitro, based in San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico, argued that
bondholders had pressed their case in Mexico and lost. The
bankruptcy plan approved there should be respected in the U.S.,
it said. Rejecting the plan would cause “utter chaos” for the
company, Andrew Leblanc, a Vitro attorney, told Hale during the
hearing.  Bondholders argued the plan is unfair to creditors and
contradicts core components of U.S. bankruptcy law.  The case is in re Vitro SAB, 11-33335,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Dallas at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  