-- West Bank’s Nablus Wagers on Spices, Samaritans, Palaces
-- B y   M i c h a e l   L u o n g o
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/west-bank-s-nablus-wagers-on-spices-samaritans-palaces.html
In Nablus, being a good Samaritan is
something locals take literally. That’s because some are.  I’m on Mount Gerizim, meeting  Samaritan Museum  Director
Husney Kahen. He’s wearing a long traditional robe and rounded
hat, his gray eyes shimmering.  “People don’t believe that Samaritans exist, that it is a
story in the Bible,” he says. “People are surprised to find
that there are actually such people.”  Until visiting the West Bank city of Nablus, once a center
of violence during the second intifada, the Palestinian uprising
against  Israel  that broke out in December 2000, I also thought
Samaritans were a fable.  Their religion mirrors Judaism, but rather than Jerusalem,
Samaritans believe Mount Gerizim was where the  Temple Mount 
existed and Abraham was to sacrifice Isaac.  Christian legend states that Jesus met a Samaritan woman in
Nablus at Jacob’s well, marked now by a Greek Orthodox church.
The parable talks of making peace with people whose beliefs
differ from your own.  “I think without peace here in the Holy Land, there is not
peace in all the world,” Kahen says, adding, “there is no
winner or loser in the war. Everyone is a loser.”  Samaritans should know. Millennia of violence have shrunk
them to about 700 adherents.  Markets, Martyrs  The city of Nablus, originally Neopolis, or New City, is
ancient, its history stretching back at least 4,000 years. Even
the building housing my hotel, the  Yasmeen , is more than 600
years old, nestled within the Old City’s souk.  With sites holy to Islam, Christianity and Judaism, Nablus
feels like  Jerusalem , minus the tourists. Yet there are odd
adornments in the Old City: discomforting posters of young men
killed in the intifada, terrorists or martyred freedom fighters,
depending on your view.  There’s a hope that conflict is slipping into the past. I’m
taken around by 27-year-old Nizar Abuzant, raised in the Old
City with nine family members crowded into two rooms. He
delights in guiding foreigners, part of his work with the
Canadian nongovernmental organization  Project Hope . We visit the
Basil Break spice shop, almost sardonically named for its owner,
and redolent of zaatar, cinnamon and coffee.  Soap Factory  Old City landmarks range from crumbling Ottoman palaces to
an olive-soap factory, producing one of Nablus’s most famous
products. Cleanliness seems to be a civic virtue. We look at an
ancient hammam, or bath, Al-Shifa, one of two still operating in
Nablus, down from 10 in the Ottoman era. Owner Hazem Marea
claims the building was originally Roman, which would make it
among the world’s most ancient operating hammams.  Despite feeling welcome, I am often the only foreigner.
It’s the same several miles away at one of the West Bank’s
grandest archaeological sites, the still largely unexcavated
Sebastia. Here I meet smiling, suited Hafez Kayed at his
restaurant Holy Land Sun, near the ruins.  When I ask how many people came to visit that day, he
saddens. “Usually, we have pilgrims, from  Italy , from other
places,” he says. “Today, only you.”  We enter the ruins through a colonnaded procession route,
stumbling into a forum where kids play soccer within the
columns. Long gone are the acropolis temples, but marble ledges
hold column bases perhaps 5 feet across, hinting at their scale.  Textured Landscape  Below, I see Palestinian farms in a valley, outlines of
unexplored ruins texturing the landscape. I cast my glance in
another direction to an Israeli military base. As layers of
civilization under my feet attest, occupation and conflict have
always been here. Later we visit living Sebastia, itself
thousands of years old, where one building has a Roman column
embedded in a Crusader-era wall and sports an Ottoman roof.
Nearby is a tomb said to be that of St. John the Baptist.  Locals prefer to focus on history’s peaceful aspects.  “Jesus walked from Nazareth to Jerusalem to Bethlehem to
Jenin to Nablus. We hope the road will be re-opened the way that
Jesus walked it,” says Khaled Tamem, in charge of festivals and
events for Nablus’s tourism office.  He’s referring to intifada days, when fighting and
roadblocks decimated tourism. Checkpoints are largely gone, but
only companies serving the heartiest Christian pilgrims have
returned.  Camel Business  I learn of plans to revitalize the Old City for tourism
from Naseer Arafat, director of the Civil Society of Nablus
Governorate. Folding open a book detailing a 13-point master
plan, he explains the architectural richness of Nablus, once the
 West Bank ’s largest city.  Amid palaces and biblical sites, Arafat points out “a
caravanserai with 150 rooms built 400 years ago” for camel-
riding merchants who traipsed through the deserts. “This is a
long-term plan that needs a lot of money, but it is a good shot
because here you have a framework,” he says.  His office, within a restored Ottoman building with
kaleidoscopic windows and ornate columns, screams potential.  One Nablus mountain is commanded by Beit Falastin, or the
 Palestine  House, the Palladian mansion of Munib Masri, one of
Palestine’s wealthiest men. He’s chairman of Padico, the
 Palestine Development & Investment Co. (PADICO) , building tourism
properties including the  Moevenpick  hotel in  Ramallah .  “Look up, you see God, and after God, you see Abraham,
Moses, Jesus and Mohammed,” says Masri as our voices echo in
the art-filled rotunda. “So you see we are all together.”  World Anger  That’s something Masri says he explains to Americans and
Israelis alike, although he voices frustration. “Tourism with
the occupation, it doesn’t work, you have to have an independent
state,” he says. “We are angry at the world, because they
don’t understand the situation.”  Masri’s time in the U.S. as a young man inspired his
mansion, based on the Palladium, a grand Chicago restaurant.  “We know lots about America, but the Americans, they know
very little about us,” he says, adding that he also wants
Israeli tourists to visit and learn about their Palestinian
neighbors. “The people who don’t know anything at all are the
Israelis. They know nothing and they are a few meters away.”  Information:  http://www.travelpalestine.ps   (Michael Luongo writes on travel for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art.  To contact the writer on this story:
Michael Luongo at  mtluongo@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 