-- Woods Pursues Return to Golf Relevance as Favorite at U.S. Open
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-06-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/woods-pursues-return-to-golf-relevance-as-favorite-at-u-s-open.html
Tiger Woods , wearing a red shirt and
black pants, flexed his right arm and unleashed an uppercut as
the ball tumbled into the hole on the 16th green. He let out a
wide-mouthed roar that was matched by the crowd.  The scene at Muirfield Village Golf Club in  Ohio  on June 3
was straight out of Woods’s pre-scandal world, when he was the
unchallenged best. Television ratings more than doubled for the
Memorial Tournament as he tied  Jack Nicklaus  with 73
professional victories, his second win of the season following a
title at  Arnold Palmer ’s Bay Hill event in March in  Orlando ,
Florida.  While those victories are signs that the game’s former No.
1 player is closer to reestablishing his winning ways, the 36-
year-old Woods and many of his peers say the questions won’t end
until he uses his arms to again hoist a major trophy, not just
pump his fists. His latest chance to end a four-year  Grand Slam
drought , the longest of his career, starts today as the  U.S.
Open  begins at the Olympic Club in San Francisco.  “It’s not just that he wins anymore,” Curtis Strange, 57,
a two-time Open winner, said on a media conference call June 7.
“But I think down deep inside me, to say he’s back to a level
of competing every week? Yeah, I think he would have to win a
major first.”  Woods can move within three of Nicklaus’s record 18 major
titles this week. He is listed as a 7-1 favorite by the Las
Vegas Hotel and Casino’s Super Book. Rory McIlroy, the defending
U.S. Open champion, and five-time runner-up  Phil Mickelson  are
second at 15-1. The tournament had an $8 million purse in 2011,
with this year’s prize disclosed tomorrow.  Faster Rate  Woods reached 73 wins 10 years sooner than it took
Nicklaus, both trailing  Sam Snead ’s record of 82. The feat
leaves some competitors searching for ways to describe it.  “They’re just stupid numbers,” 1992 Masters Tournament
winner  Fred Couples  said in a June 6 interview in Birmingham,
 Alabama . “It makes no sense.”  Yet, Woods has been stuck at 14 majors since he defeated
 Rocco Mediate  in a 19-hole playoff in the U.S. Open at  Torrey
Pines  in  San Diego  in 2008. Woods is skeptical that a win this
week will be enough to end the comeback talk.  “Even if I do win, it will still be, ‘You’re not to 18
yet,’ or, ‘When will you get to 19?’” Woods said in a press
conference two days ago. “It’s always something. I’ve dealt
with that my entire career. It hasn’t changed.”  John Cook, a longtime friend of Woods who now plays on the
senior tour, said the three-time U.S. Open champion is as close
to returning to his old form as he has seen.  “He’s ready, he’s prepared and he’s thinking clearly,”
Cook, 54, said in Birmingham last week. “It reminds me of the
old Tiger Woods.”  Sex Scandal  Woods’s life began to unravel publicly on a November night
in 2009, when he smashed his SUV into a fire hydrant outside his
 Florida  home. The aftermath revealed extramarital affairs that
led to his divorce and loss of sponsors, including AT&T Inc. and
Accenture Plc.  He underwent addiction therapy and apologized for his
behavior. As the marquee player in a $76 billion golf industry,
as measured by the National Golf Foundation, Woods is still
listed as the highest-earning athlete by  Sports Illustrated  with
$60 million in annual endorsement income. He signed sponsorship
deals in October with the luxury watchmaker Rolex Group and
sports nutrition company Fuse Science Inc.  As he returned to golf while dealing with his personal
problems, Woods battled leg injuries and went more than two
years without a full-fledged tournament victory, a streak that
ended at Bay Hill. His ability to win again was often pointed to
as the only way to make the public forget about his
transgressions.  ‘Huge Mistake’  “Hell, yeah, he made a huge mistake,” said Couples, 52,
whose former caddie,  Joe LaCava , now carries Woods’s bag. “He’d
be an idiot if he sat there and thought that he didn’t do
something wrong. But in my opinion, that’s all in the past and
now he’s a golfer making his way back to being the best
player.”  The golf public has embraced Woods again, at least
according to television ratings. His win two weeks ago drew a
3.8 overnight rating on CBS, up from 1.6 a year earlier when
 Steve Stricker  won the rain-plagued event, according to the
network. The ratings were up 19 percent from 2010.  Not all of Woods’s peers are ready to forgive him.  “Everybody can make up their own opinion,” three-time
U.S. Open winner Hale Irwin, 67, said in Birmingham, where the
senior tour played last week. “I don’t really care. I think
he’s got a long way to go to make up for some of the hurt that
he has put on the golf world over the last couple of years.”  Rekindle Magic  The sport, along with the hysteria that surrounded Woods’s
record-setting play, is unlikely to return to the way it was
before his accident, Couples said. Woods is trying his best to
rekindle some of that old magic.  At the Memorial, an event hosted by Nicklaus, Woods -- in
his traditional Sunday red and black -- added a defining shot to
his personal highlight collection.  Faced with a downhill lie from behind a green that was
sloping away from him toward water, Woods hit a high-lofted shot
out of the rough to a two-foot landing area on the 16th green.
The ball plunked on the putting surface, then rolled down the
slope and into the hole, producing pre-scandal-style euphoria.  The shot was seen as another step in the quest to regain
the top spot in the game by Woods, now fourth in the Official
World Golf Ranking after falling out of the top 50 in October.
The same optimism was evident two weeks before the season’s
first major, April’s Masters Tournament, when Woods captured Bay
Hill. Woods then left Augusta National Golf Club in  Georgia  with
a 40th place finish, the worst of his professional career.  Worst Streak  Things got worse. He missed the 36-hole cut at  Charlotte ’s
Quail Hollow Club, a course many players deem to be major
championship worthy, and finished 40th at the Players
championship. Woods went from the win column to the three worst
consecutive results of his career.  “Something happened in those two weeks before Augusta and
he didn’t look the same,” Cook said. “I venture to guess
that’s not going to happen to him this week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in  San Francisco  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  