-- Woods-Mickelson Combination Makes Life Tough for Shortest Fans
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-06-14T16:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/woods-mickelson-combination-makes-life-tough-for-shortest-fans.html
To have any chance of seeing  Tiger Woods ,  Phil Mickelson  or Bubba Watson at the U.S. Open this
morning, Laura Goldner and her daughter Camila had to fight for
a spot. They chose an area about 20 yards short of the putting
green.  Both stand 5-foot-1 and managed to position themselves in
the front row, in front of other taller spectators.  “We tried to get to the tee, but we couldn’t see
anything,” said Laura Goldner, 47. “We’re so short.”  The Goldners, who traveled from Houston for the tournament,
were among several thousand fans who rose as early as 3:45 a.m.
local time to get to  San Francisco ’s Olympic Club for the
opening round of golf’s second Grand Slam of the year.  With the grouping of Woods and Mickelson, two of the
sport’s most popular players, and Watson, the reigning Masters
Tournament winner, spectators were lined up down both sides of
the fairway on the 449-yard ninth hole, where the group began play.
A grandstand area behind the green was filled soon after the
course opened at 6 a.m.  “Unfortunately, it’s so hard to see them,” Phil Shannon,
54, said in an interview near the tee box moments after the
group started. “I’m trying to follow them for a little bit
before it gets too crazy.”  Woods and Watson made par on the opening hole, while
Mickelson took a bogey after losing his tee shot in the cypress
trees to the right of the fairway.  Executive Director  Mike Davis  of the U.S. Golf Association,
which stages the tournament, said it chose to put the players,
especially Woods and Mickelson, together because the fans wanted
to see it.  ‘Great Players’  “Here you have two of the great players of our generation
and they hardly ever play together in a major,” Davis said in
an interview yesterday.  Large crowds were unavoidable, he said.  “Before we ever did it, we did all of our homework about
parking, traffic, when to tee them off,” he said.  Shannon, a legal services business owner, said he rose at 4
a.m. to leave his house in  San Jose ,  California , to catch a
shuttle to the course from  Candlestick Park , home of the
 National Football League ’s San Francisco 49ers. He came by
himself and stood in the front row to see the trio.  “You’ve got three incredible golfers who are at the tops
of their games,” Shannon said. “It’s exciting to watch. It’s
really cool.”  Scandal Ignored  While Woods, a 14-time major tournament winner, has gone
four years since winning his last major at the 2008  U.S. Open ,
the longest drought of his career, ticket buyers didn’t seem to
care. His off-course marital scandal also wasn’t an issue.  “I’m a Tiger fan,” said Rich Reisinger, a 44-year-old
operations manager who is attending his first U.S. Open. “I
could care less what he does in his personal life. I don’t
respect him for it, but I respect what he does on the golf
course.”  For fans who didn’t catch the threesome today, the group
will return for Round 2 tomorrow, beginning at 1:29 p.m. on the
first hole.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  