-- World Bank Ready to Help East Withstand Europe’s Crisis
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-06-14T12:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/world-bank-ready-to-help-east-weather-debt-crisis-harrold-says.html
The  World Bank  is ready to give east
European countries backing that would allow them to withstand
shocks coming from  Europe ’s debt crisis and ease their reliance
on bailout funds, a bank official said.  The Washington-based lender, which approved a 1 billion-
euro ($1.26 billion) three-year precautionary loan to Romania on
June 11, is in preliminary talks to arrange the backing of
Croatian bonds and may provide technical support to  Hungary  once
it reaches a bailout-loan agreement with the IMF and the
European Union, Peter Harrold, the bank’s director for central
Europe and the Baltics, said in a June 12 interview.  Romania, Ukraine, Serbia, Hungary and  Latvia  have all taken
International Monetary Fund assistance in the past three years
to help them through the crisis. IMF loan programs outline
measures such as spending cuts and public-sector wage reductions
that officials need to adopt to receive aid. Governments in some
of these countries have fallen because of the unpopular moves
taken to adhere to the terms of the credits.  Romania ’s loan “fits very well in the region” and “it
could well be an example for this sort of arrangements,”
Harrold said in Bucharest. “Moving from a situation where the
IMF is really in the kitchen to a situation where they are very
much helping you with a much lower profile on a precautionary
basis, as an anchor and not as your controller, that’s a good
thing. It reflects the move along and this is very much in
keeping with that approach.”  Crisis Effects  Eastern Europe, the hardest hit region in the world after
the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. froze global
credit markets, is trying to shield itself from possible
contagion from an escalation of the European sovereign-debt
crisis through banking and trading channels. Emerging Europe is
the only region in the world where international banks own the
biggest share of the domestic banking industry.  Harrold said the AAA rating of the bank, which has already
backed bonds issued by Macedonia, Montenegro and  Serbia , may
also help lower Croatia’s borrowing costs with its possible
guarantee for euro-denominated bonds, pending fiscal adjustment
in the country. The Adriatic nation needs to reduce its  budget
deficit , which is the same as two years ago, and pursue fiscal
adjustment measures, he said.  “Countries like Serbia and Croatia are facing very high
financing costs indeed,” Harrold said. “Doing bond issuance or
borrowing, because it can be a loan as well, with the backing of
the bank can have a very sharp impact on costs and it can be
very good.”  ‘Gentle Discussions’  The cost of insuring against a default by Hungary increased
to 569.6 basis points at 2 p.m. in Budapest, after declining to
as low as 497 basis points on May 7 this year, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The
credit-default swaps of Hungary are higher than those for
neighboring Romania which stand at 436.3 basis points and also
exceed those of  Croatia  of 528.7 basis points.  The World Bank is “in very gentle discussions” with
Hungary now to support reforms and provide reassurance “for
critical elements of the financial sector,” Harrold said.  Hungary, which requested IMF aid in November and has been
delaying the approval of measures needed to start the talks,
can’t access resources from the World Bank except under
exceptional circumstances because it has already graduated from
an IMF loan program, Harrold said.  “There’s been no suggestion that the World Bank should
have another financial relationship with Hungary, but we have
discussed with Hungary the possibility of certain types of
involvement,” he said. “We’re seeing if, for example,” the
bank might help small Hungarian companies access funding “in
the context of a new arrangement with the IMF and the EU.
Everything is a very long way away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  