-- World’s Oldest Cave Art Possibly Made by Neanderthals
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-06-14T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/world-s-oldest-cave-art-possibly-made-by-neanderthals.html
Cave paintings in northern  Spain ,
possibly created by Neanderthals, may be the oldest known
examples in the world, according to a new analysis.  Hand stencils and disks made by blowing paint onto the wall
in  El Castillo  cave were found to date back at least 40,800
years, according to a team of researchers led by  Alistair
Pike  of the  University of Bristol  in  England . One red disk
depiction found in Spain pre-dates pictures at  Chauvet  cave in
 France  by about 4,000 years, they said. Their analysis was
published today in the journal Science.  The archaeologists used a method based on the radioactive
decay of uranium to analyze calcium carbonate crusts formed on
top of the paintings. The El Castillo artworks are “the oldest
reliably dated paintings in the world,” Pike told reporters on
a conference call, dismissing claims made by scientists in
Australia and  India , whose dating methods “suffer from
ambiguities.”  As for their authorship, there is a “strong probability”
that Neanderthals can be credited, as modern humans arrived in
 Europe  between 41,000 and 42,000 years ago and Neanderthals
still existed 40,000 years ago, said  Joao Zilhao , a professor of
paleolithic archaeology at the University of Barcelona. Evidence
of symbolic culture, such as body painting and pendants made of
bones and ivory, have already been associated with Neanderthals
from about 50,000 years ago, he said.  Nail in Coffin  “So it would not be surprising if the Neanderthals were
indeed Europe’s first cave artists,” he said. The discovery at
El Castillo may be “the last nail in the coffin of the notion
of Neanderthals as the archetypal dumb retard.”  As the possibility still exists that modern humans may have
painted the cave walls, further tests are necessary, and any
samples that pre-date their arrival would prove Neanderthal
authorship, Pike said.  “Given that no Neanderthal art of this kind has previously
been found, this would represent an extraordinary discovery,”
said David Whitley, former chief archaeologist at  University of
California ,  Los Angeles , in an e-mail. “In science,
extraordinary discoveries require extraordinary evidence.”  The traditional method of radiocarbon dating, used to date
the Chauvet cave paintings, wasn’t employed as they don’t work
where there is no organic pigment. Recent developments in
uranium-series dating have enabled scientists to reduce the size
of samples from a gram (0.04 ounce) of material to about 10
milligrams, Pike said. That has in turn permitted the collection
of more samples, he said.  “What’s really exciting about the possibility that this is
Neanderthal art is that anyone, because it’s open to the public,
can walk into El Castillo cave and see a Neanderthal hand on the
wall,” Pike said. “And this is something that is invisible to
archaeology, or has been until we worked out where to look.”  The research was funded by the U.K.  Natural Environment
Research Council .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  