-- Mercury-Laced Baby Formula Recalled Amid China Food Campaign
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-15T07:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/yili-recalls-mercury-laced-milk-powder-amid-china-food-campaign.html
Inner Mongolia Yili Industrial Group
Co. (600887) , China’s largest dairy producer by market value, recalled
some baby formula after finding “abnormal” levels of mercury
in some of its products.  The recalled milk products were made between November 2011
and May 2012, Yili, based in the northern Chinese city of
Hohhot, said on its website. The company’s stock  fell  by the
daily limit in Shanghai.  China set out this week measures to improve food safety,
including tighter supervision and harsher punishments, according
to the official  Xinhua News Agency . In December, regulators
reported that toxins were found in dairy products of  China
Mengniu Dairy Co. (2319) , while Yili agreed to spend 1.24 billion yuan
($195 million) in 2009 to improve its operations after a
tainted-milk scandal.  “In the short term, there will be pressure on Yili’s share
price,” said Jason  Yuan , Beijing-based head of research at
Pegasus Investment Management. “This may affect investor
confidence in companies in the milk powder segments.”  Yili Industrial’s shares fell 10 percent to 21.85 yuan at
the close of trading in Shanghai, its biggest fall since
November 2008. The company posted a 226 million-yuan net loss in
the third quarter of 2008 after recalling some products found to
contain melamine.  Nerve Damage  Mercury may damage the central nervous system and lungs,
and may cause  birth defects . Children are more susceptible to
its deleterious effects.  Tainted milk killed at least six babies and sickened
300,000 others in 2008, and 22 companies were found to have sold
formula made from milk contaminated with the industrial chemical
melamine, prompting the government to execute two people
involved in the scandal and form a  food-safety  commission led by
Vice Premier Li Keqiang.  Li has called for harsh punishments against violations and
said the nation plans to establish a long-term mechanism this
year to check food safety. Food safety is important to the
country’s harmony and stability, according to a May Xinhua
report, citing Li.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  