-- Youku Leads Slide as Credit Suisse Cuts Outlook: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-06-14T20:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/youku-leads-slide-as-credit-suisse-cuts-outlook-china-overnight.html
Chinese Internet stocks slipped in
New York, led by  Youku Inc. (YOKU) ’s first decline in two weeks, as
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Deutsche Bank AG reduced their growth
forecast for Asia’s largest economy.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity  Index (SHCOMP)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. fell 0.5 percent to 90.02 in New
York yesterday. Online video operators Youku and  Tudou Holdings
Ltd. (TUDO)  had their first loss since June 1 while  Ctrip.com
International Ltd. (CTRP)  rose the most in a week after the company
said it will buy back shares.  Huaneng Power International Inc. (902) 
climbed to the highest level since 2009 as HSBC Holdings Plc
raised its recommendation on the electricity producer’s stock.  Credit Suisse cut its outlook for China’s economic growth
this year to 7.7 percent from 8 percent yesterday, while
Deutsche Bank lowered its forecast to 7.9 percent from 8.2
percent. China cut its benchmark  interest rates  last week for
the first time since 2008 as May economic data showed slower
growth and Europe’s debt crisis exacerbated.  “Visibility about China’s economy for second half is
limited, so cutting growth estimates is reasonable,” Qi Guo, an
e-commerce analyst at ThinkEquity Partners LLC in San Francisco,
said in a phone interview. “Online advertising slowed there in
the second quarter, so for Youku that is a concern because we’re
not sure if consumer spending is going to pick-up for the rest
of the year.”  China ETF Gains  The iShares FTSE  China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest U.S.-
listed China exchange-traded fund, rose 0.2 percent to $33.75.
The Shanghai Composite Index of mainland stocks fell 1 percent,
the most since June 4, to 2,295.95. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index added 1.1 percent to 1,329.10 as data on inflation and
jobless  claims  bolstered speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
act to spur growth.  Credit Suisse economist Tao Dong said that to restore
China’s economic strength, the government should end its
monopolies in banking and utilities, open its  service industries 
and deregulate its  exchange rate .  China’s non-manufacturing industries expanded at the
 slowest  pace in May in more than a year owing to a decline in
exports and a weak real estate market, the country’s National
Bureau of Statistics and the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said on June 3.  “China’s growth has slowed, and they’re unlikely to make
any big stimulus moves until after the change in power,”  Kevin Shacknofsky , who helps manage about $5 billion at Alpine Mutual
Funds in  New York , said by phone yesterday. “Equity investors
would probably like them to do more. Europe is China’s largest
trading partner, and China remains very sensitive to European
news.”  China’s Communist Party is preparing for a once-a-decade
leadership transition later this year when President Hu Jintao
and Premier Wen Jiabao are set to step down.  Youku, Tudou Plunge  Youku, owner of China’s most popular online video site,
tumbled 6.5 percent to $23.89. The Beijing-based company has
gained 52 percent this year after losing 55 percent in 2011.
Youku said on March 12 that it plans to acquire smaller rival
Tudou in a stock deal  valued  at $953 million. Tudou fell 4.4
percent to $36.60.  Ctrip gained the most since June 6 after China’s biggest
online travel agency said it will buy back as much as $300
million of its American depositary receipts. Shares in New York
rose 3.5 percent to $17.05.  Huaneng Power Advances  Huaneng Power, China’s largest electricity producer, added
2.5 percent to $28.11, its highest price since Oct. 23, 2009, as
HSBC raised its rating in the stock to overweight from neutral.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , the largest search-engine company in China,
rose 0.8 percent to $117.64. The Beijing-based company said
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  will be entitled to a share of advertising sales
after the Chinese company’s search-engine was added as part of a
software upgrade for iPhones in China. Apple said this week it
will offer Baidu’s search-engine as an option for iPhone and
iPad customers, and add Chinese-language support for its Siri
voice technology.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , a Macau Casino operator,
fell for a second day, dropping 4.3 percent to $11.25 as
Macquarie Securities Ltd. lowered its 2012 revenue growth
forecast for Macau gaming to 13 percent from 15 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  