-- Youngest U.S. Open Golfer Zhang Matches World No. 1 Luke Donald
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-06-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/youngest-u-s-open-golfer-zhang-is-nine-over-after-rough-start.html
Andy Zhang, the youngest golfer on
record in  U.S. Open  history, matched world No. 1  Luke Donald  in
the first round of the U.S. Open. Unfortunately, they’re 9-over
par and in danger of being eliminated today.  Zhang, 14, who is from  China  and lives in Reunion,  Florida ,
began his first major tournament with a triple bogey 7. He
followed with a double bogey and three consecutive bogeys to go
8 over after five holes.  Zhang said his hands and knees were shaking as he prepared
to begin his round at the Olympic Club in  San Francisco .  “On the first tee, I was like, ‘Just please don’t hit a
hundred-yard slice,”’ he said in a news conference. “I was
shaking really hard.”  He settled down after the rough start, with two birdies, a
bogey and a double bogey the rest of the round for a 79. He
ended his day by sinking a putt from the fringe for a birdie and
celebrating with a fist pump.  “At least I broke 80,” he said.  He wasn’t the only notable player to struggle on the first
day of the second major of the year. Donald had nine bogeys and
no birdies in his round. Masters Tournament winner Bubba Watson
had a 78, while defending champion Rory McIlroy is 7-over.  Phil Mickelson , a four-time major champion and five-time runner-up at
the U.S. Open, is 6-over.  Zhang and Donald are tied for 141st place going into the
second day. The top 60 players and ties qualify for the third
and fourth rounds.  Zhang made the field as an alternate when  Paul Casey 
withdrew because of a shoulder injury. Zhang competed in a
qualifier in Florida on June 4 and shot rounds of 70 and 72 to
earn a first alternate position.  Zhang is the youngest golfer to participate in the
championship at least since the U.S. Open returned from a four-
year hiatus following World War II in 1946. The youngest
previous competitor on record in the tournament’s modern era was
Tadd Fujikawa, who was 15 when he played in the 2006 tournament
at Winged Foot Golf Club in  New York , according to the U.S. Golf
Association.  “When I was 14, I couldn’t play like that,”  Michael
Thompson , a 27-year-old American who holds the first-round lead
at 4-under 66, said in a news conference. “It took me roughly
about a year or so to experience crowds like they have out here
and really be able to handle it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  