-- YPF Soars as Billionaire Slim Gets 8.4% Stake From Eskenazis
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-06-15T20:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/ypf-says-mexican-billionaire-carlos-slim-owns-a-8-4-stake.html
YPF SA (YPFD)  climbed the most in three
years after Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim  became the fourth-
largest stakeholder in Argentina’s top oil producer.  Slim controls 32.9 million of YPF’s Class D shares, or an
8.4 percent stake worth $345 million, according to a regulatory
filing yesterday from the Buenos Aires-based company. A loan
default prompted Argentina’s Eskenazi family to transfer the
creditors. Slim’s Grupo Financiero Inbursa SAB was among banks
that received YPF shares as collateral after the default, said
 Arturo Elias , a spokesman for Slim, the world’s richest person.  “We view it as a solid company with good growth
potential,” Elias said in a telephone interview from Mexico
City. Slim is analyzing whether to retain the stake, he said.  Argentina seized 51 percent of YPF from  Repsol SA (REP)  in April
as President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government seeks
to halt declining oil output and stem fuel imports that doubled
to $9.4 billion last year. The government opposed YPF dividends,
which were favored by the Eskenazi family, operators of YPF
before the seizure. The Eskenazi-owned Petersen Group had used
YPF dividends to meet obligations until defaulting in May on a
$1 billion loan that used a YPF stake for collateral.  YPF’s American depositary receipts  gained 7 percent to
close at $11.17 at 4:15 p.m. in New York, after earlier soaring
as much as 21 percent, the most since March 2009. The ADRs have
plunged 70 percent this year as of yesterday’s close.  ‘Big Opportunity’  “It’s great that someone powerful behind this stock has
seen there is a big opportunity here,” said Marcus Sequeira, an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in  New York . Slim may be looking to
“position for the long-term. You can’t buy this stock for one
or two years.”  Slim’s company didn’t acquire the rights to Eskenazi’s debt
after the default, Elias said in an e-mailed response to
questions today. Inbursa informed YPF that it isn’t interested
in increasing its stake, YPF said in a regulatory filing today.  Two units of the Eskenazi’s Petersen Group transferred
shares used as collateral to a group of banks on June 11 after
defaulting on a loan, Petersen said today in a U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission filing. The filing contradicts a YPF SEC
filing yesterday that said the Eskenazis were forced to sell
25.9 million shares to Inbursa because of the default.  The default sparked cross-defaults on three other loans,
one of which had been issued by banks and the other two by
Repsol. Before the defaults the Eskenazis owned 25 percent of
YPF.  Board Seat  Credit Suisse AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., BNP Paribas SA,
Banco Itau BBA SA, Standard Bank Group Ltd. and Citigroup Inc.
were the lending banks and took 19 percent of YPF after the
Eskenazi default. Repsol took the family’s remaining 6 percent.  The acquisition makes Slim the  fourth-largest YPF
stakeholder,  behind the government, Madrid-based Repsol and the
group of banks led by Credit Suisse.  Under the terms of YPF bylaws, Slim’s stake entitles him to
name a member on the next board. The current board was elected
last month.  The Argentine government, which said Repsol under invested
since it acquired YPF in 1999, wants to tap shale reserves that
may hold at least 23 billion barrels of oil equivalent in the
country’s south.  YPF,  Argentina ’s largest oil producer, will invest $7
billion in 2013 as it plans to double exploration in five years
and boost refining, Chief Executive Officer Miguel Galuccio said
June 6. The company targets investments of $1.2 billion in shale
oil next year, he said.  Argentine ‘Confidence’  “The incorporation of the Mexican businessman in the
shareholding ranks of the company is a clear signal to the
international financial market,” Galuccio said in a separate
statement. “It’s a great show of confidence in Argentina and
the company’s new initiative.”  Slim, 72, has been dabbling in oil investments for years,
including stakes in oil services company Bronco Drilling Co. in
2008 and Allis-Chalmers Energy Inc. in 2007. Both companies were
later acquired.  Slim’s Grupo Carso SAB holding company has an oil services
unit which counts  Petroleos Mexicanos , the Mexican state-owned
producer, as its client. The unit, which had sales of 3.1
billion Mexican pesos ($223 million) last year, announced a $205
million contract last week to provide three offshore platforms
for Pemex.  Last year, Carso agreed to pay $23.3 million for a 70
percent stake in Tabasco Oil Co., which has a contract to
explore and produce oil in a field in eastern  Colombia .  ‘Value Play’  The acquisition of the YPF stake may be fortunate timing
for Slim, said Laurence Balter, who oversees $100 million for
Fox Island, Washington-based Oracle Investment Research.  “YPF is worth much more than it is priced today,” Balter
said. “Another great value play by Mr. Slim.”  Slim’s only major holding in Argentina is the wireless
carrier Claro, a unit of America Movil SAB that has about a
third of the nation’s mobile-phone subscribers. The company had
sales of 11.9 billion Argentine pesos ($2.6 billion) last year
in Argentina, Uruguay and  Paraguay  combined, according to its
fourth-quarter report.  Slim’s net worth has surged 8 percent in 2012 to $66.5
billion, expanding his lead as the world’s richest person,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  daily ranking.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  