-- 
‘Say-on-Pay’ Votes May Lead Boards to Revisit Pay, Survey Finds

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-12T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/-say-on-pay-votes-may-lead-boards-to-revisit-pay-survey-finds.html
U.S. corporate board members would
be willing to reconsider executive compensation packages if
shareholders express dissatisfaction through non-binding “say-
on-pay” votes, according to findings from an annual director
survey conducted by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  With a second proxy season approaching after the Dodd-Frank
Act required companies to let shareholders express their views,
72 percent of directors said their boards would review pay plans
even if executives win more than 50 percent support,  New York- 
based PricewaterhouseCoopers said in the survey released today.  “This data suggests that even at lower levels, some board
members would have concern,” said Donald Keller, a partner in
the firm’s center for board governance who analyzed the survey.  The votes were established this year after lawmakers
responded in Dodd-Frank to complaints that incentive-based pay
fueled excessive risk-taking before the 2008 credit crisis. The
PricewaterhouseCoopers survey aimed to find out how boards are
responding to this and other changes to corporate governance.  Though the votes are non-binding, compensation experts say
executives who tally less than 80 percent approval should see
that as a sign of shareholder discontent.  “Boards should be reaching out to their shareowners if
there is a significant against vote on say-on-pay, whether it’s
a majority or not,” Amy Borrus, deputy director for the
Washington-based Council of Institutional Investors, said in an
interview.  Easier to Understand  Two-thirds of directors said their firms have changed the
way they communicate executive pay ideas to investors, with many
of them aiming to make the plans easier to understand, according
to survey responses from 834 directors.  When it comes to their chief executive officers, board
members expressed greater confidence about steering pay than
they did last year, with 49 percent saying boards are in control
of CEO pay -- 15 percent more than in the 2010 survey.  Directors were less confident about their firms’ ability to
handle risk. Fewer than one in five thought their board was
doing a “very effective” job reducing risk from financial,
environmental or computer-security threats.  “Because of the financial crisis, there were questions
raised about the role of the board and I think the boards are
reacting to that,” Keller said. Directors seem reluctant to
exhibit assurance because of the range of things that have been
proven to go wrong, he said.  Information technology  was seen as a particular trouble
spot, with 52 percent saying it’s difficult to get technology
expertise onto their boards.  One area in which technology has found its way into the
board is in the use of tablets and smartphones, with 42 percent
of respondents now using them to work with board materials, and
38 percent wanting their boards to start using such gadgets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  