-- 
A Fresh Controversy in Stem Cell Research Is Easily Solved: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-12T00:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/a-fresh-controversy-in-human-stem-cell-research-can-be-easily-solved-view.html
Last week, with the announcement
that scientists had created stem cells, not from embryos, but
from adult cells, one controversy in biomedicine was replaced by
another. No sooner had the problem of using human embryos been
solved than a problem with selling human eggs sprang up. Let’s
take these one at a time.  Stem cells are promising because, like those “letters of
transit” in “Casablanca,” they are fill-in-the-blank cells
that can be turned into any of the more complex cells in the
human body. Therefore, they are a potential replacement for
diseased or missing cells and a potential cure for a long list
of illnesses.  Embryonic stem cells have been controversial because they
are derived from human embryos. The controversy is based on a
common misunderstanding: An embryo is not the same thing as a
fetus. It is a clump of cells with no ability to feel pain and
no self-awareness of any sort. Nature itself creates and
destroys millions of them every year in the natural process of
human reproduction.  The embryos used in stem cell research come from fertility
clinics, where creating more embryos than are needed and
discarding (or pointlessly freezing) the rest are standard
procedures. Such practices at fertility clinics are almost
completely uncontroversial.  Stem cells can also be derived from adult human beings, but
these are more complex and specialized cells that must be
reverse-engineered into their “pluripotent” (could-become-
anything) state. Nevertheless, adult stem cells have two great
advantages: They are uncontroversial, and once the reverse-
engineering trick is perfected, they could be derived from a
patient’s own cells, reducing the risk of rejection.  But research on adult stem cells still requires the
harvesting of a human egg in which to implant the cell.
Furthermore, adult stem cell research has run into various
roadblocks and dead ends. This is why those who hailed adult
stem cells and claimed that they obviated any need for embryonic
stem cell research were so wrong. When something as potentially
miraculous as stem cells comes along, you need to pursue all
avenues of research, because you never know which one will pay
off.  Last week the  New York Stem Cell Foundation  announced that
two of its scientists had discovered a possible solution to a
crucial problem with adult human stem cells. This has created
yet another ethical controversy, having to do with the needed
eggs. As reported by Nicholas Wade in the New York Times, donors
are being paid $8,000 each via  Columbia University , a co-sponsor
of the research.  Yet paying egg donors violates the guidelines of the
 National Academy of Sciences . “Many ethicists fear that paying
donors will lead to a market in organs,” the Times article
says.  So what? We appreciate the medical and economic dangers
involved in allowing a donor to be paid for giving up a kidney.
But eggs for stem cell research are not vital organs. They can
be removed at minimal risk to the donor. And others will develop
in their place.  Many donors will be motivated by a combination of mercenary
and charitable impulses -- which society ought to encourage. You
shouldn’t have to be an absolute saint in order to do a bit of
good.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 