-- 
Madoff Trustee Says Defendants’ Judge-Shopping Perverts Law

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-10-13T16:03:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/madoff-trustee-says-defendants-eviscerate-bankruptcy-court.html
The liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s firm said people and companies he sued in 247 actions
are “perverting” the law by rushing to find new judges for
their cases. Investors say he’s doing the perverting.  Defendants in lawsuits by trustee  Irving Picard , including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and the  New York Mets  owners, have asked
district judges to decide whether Picard has the right to sue
them, and for how much. They seek an “escape hatch” from
 bankruptcy court , which Congress intended to handle such cases
as clawbacks of money withdrawn from a  Ponzi scheme , the trustee
said yesterday in court papers.  Picard’s filing was a response to the effort by Melvyn Weiss, the disbarred co-founder of the law firm Milberg LLP, to
move a case to district court. Higher-court rulings on the power
of bankruptcy judges, including one in the Anna Nicole Smith
case, enabled Picard’s targets to try to get hearings elsewhere.  “With the floodgates fully flung open, more and more
parties are blatantly engaging in forum shopping,” Picard said
in the filing in U.S. District Court in  New York . “Through this
procedural gamesmanship, the Weiss defendants -- along with the
defendants in the 246 other actions presently before this court
-- are eviscerating the bankruptcy court’s nearly three years of
hard work,” he said, referring to the start of the Madoff
firm’s liquidation in 2008 after the confidence man’s arrest.  Picard’s targets have a right to defend themselves against
“unfair treatment,” said the Network for Investor Action and
Protection, a group founded by Madoff investors.  Suing the Innocent  It is the trustee who is perverting investor protection law
by suing thousands of innocent investors, Ron Stein, president
of the group, said in an e-mailed statement.  “It is absurd that the trustee is complaining about the
targets of his lawsuits exercising their right to defend
themselves,” he said. “And it should be noted that despite his
‘three years of hard work,’ he has barely begun to return lost
money to these innocent investors -- not exactly a swift return
of funds that investor protection laws clearly require.”  Picard this month started sending holders of 1,230 Madoff
accounts $312 million, or about 4.6 percent of the money he said
they lost in the fraud. About $5 billion of the $8.7 billion he
said he has recovered to pay principal of $17.3 billion is tied
up in court challenges.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland , who is handling much
of the Madoff case, commented separately from Picard about an
attack on his court yesterday.  Cayman Islands  Case  Stopping a lawsuit against the trustee in the Cayman
Islands, he said Maxam Absolute Return Fund Ltd.’s action was
“a clear attack on this court’s exclusive jurisdiction and a
blatant attempt to hijack the key issues to another court,”
according to a court filing.  Picard sued Maxam for about $100 million.  Ex-Milberg lawyer Weiss asked a district judge last month
to take his case from bankruptcy court, saying it raised federal
law questions that require a district judge’s ruling.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff cut two-thirds off Picard’s
billion-dollar claim against the owners of the New York Mets and
threw out about $9 billion of claims against  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
and other parties.  Picard and his firm have charged more than $224 million for
work since Madoff’s 2008 arrest. Madoff is serving a 150-year
sentence in a federal prison in  North Carolina .  The Weiss case is Picard v. M&B Weiss Family Limited
Partnership, 11-cv-06244, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 