-- 
Aer Lingus Seeks ‘Flexibility’ to Return Cash to Investors

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-10-12T09:45:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/aer-lingus-seeks-flexibility-to-make-returns-to-shareholders.html
Aer Lingus (AERL)  Group Plc, Ireland’s
second-biggest airline, said it will seek approval from
shareholders to cancel up to 500 million euros ($690 million) in
non-distributable reserves to give it the flexibility to return
cash to shareholders.  Aer Lingus, which may post a profit for a second straight
year, is under pressure from  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , its largest
shareholder, to return cash to investors. Ryanair holds 30
percent of Dublin-based Aer Lingus’s stock following two failed
takeover bids.  The proposed balance-sheet restructuring could pave the way
for Aer Lingus to pay a special dividend within a range of 50
million euros to 100 million euros as soon as next year, said
 Joe Gill , an analyst at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin.  “With such huge cash balances on the balance sheet, you can
envisage a scenario of that being how they reward
shareholders,” if the company remains profitable and barring
major aircraft purchases, Gill said in a phone interview.  Aer Lingus fell 2.8 percent to 65 cents at 10:40 a.m. in
Dublin. The carrier’s stock has tumbled 40 percent this year,
cutting its market value to 344 million euros, amid concern that
waning economic growth will crimp  travel demand .  ‘Hard to Defend’  “While the board is not currently contemplating the
payment of a dividend to shareholders or the redemption or
repurchase of ordinary shares, the board believes that it is in
the best interests of shareholders to enable the company to have
greater flexibility to consider a return of capital to
shareholders,” Aer Lingus said on its  website .  “It’s very hard to defend that a special dividend isn’t the
way to reward shareholders given the state of the company,” Gill
said.  The carrier will hold an extraordinary general meeting in
Dublin Nov. 4 to vote on the capital reduction.  Ryanair responded to the Aer Lingus statement by publishing
an open letter to Chairman Colm Barrington urging him to reply
to a Sept. 28 message in which the carrier outlined its
proposals to reverse the collapse of the company’s share price.
Ryanair asked Aer Lingus to consider a 110 million-euro special
dividend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  