-- 
Thai Rice Damage May Push Up Global Prices, Mohanty Says

-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-10-12T11:05:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/thai-rice-damage-may-push-up-global-prices-mohanty-says-1-.html
Damage to rice crops from  Thailand 
to  Philippines  may “push up” prices this year as global
production of milled rice may be less than previously forecast,
according to the International Rice Research Institute.  Flooding in Thailand, the biggest exporter, may have
damaged as much as 5 million metric tons of paddy, while a
typhoon in Philippines and flooding in Cambodia and  Laos  will
trim rice output, Samarendu Mohanty, a senior economist at the
institute, said in New Delhi today. Global production of milled
rice may be as low as 455 million tons in the year that began on
Sept. 1, less than the 460 million forecast last month, he said.  Reduced rice supplies, the staple for half the world, may
fuel a 21 percent rally in prices in the past year in Chicago
and boost global food costs that the  United Nations  predicts
will remain high and fluctuating as demand rises because of
economic growth. Damage to crops may boost import demand for
rice,  Robert Zeigler , director-general of the institute, said in
a separate interview.  “There will be supply-demand imbalances by the end of this
year and early 2012,” he said. “There may be price volatility
in rice because of weather problems.”  Prices of Thai white rice may climb 21 percent to $750 a
ton from $619 a ton today because of crop damage and Thailand’s
plan to buy rice from farmers above market rates, said Sumeth
Laomoraphorn, chief executive officer of C.P. Trading Co.,
Thailand’s fourth-largest exporter. Rough-rice futures for
November in  Chicago  climbed as much 1.6 percent to $16.23 per
100 pounds today.  Thai Stockpiles  Thailand last week started a government-purchase program,
at prices as much as 44 percent above market rates, to boost
crop prices and rural incomes. Global rice prices will depend on
what Thailand does with the rice it buys from growers, rice
institute’s Mohanty said.  “The damage to the crop in Thailand might put upward
pressure on prices,” Mohanty said in an interview. “Thai
export policy is not very clear. Global prices will depend on
the rice export policy in Thailand.”  Flooding devastated crops mostly in Chao Phraya basin in
central Thailand and paralyzed shipments, C.P. Trading’s Sumeth
said by phone today. The nation’s exports may halve to about
500,000 tons a month from October to December, he said.  “Thailand, Cambodia and  Vietnam  are facing the same
destiny but supplies from  India  will make up for the decline in
production, limiting a chance of rice price rally,” Sumeth
said.  Indian Exports  India, the world’s second-largest producer, allowed private
companies to export non-basmati rice for the first time in more
than three years in July after state-run stockpiles reached a
record. Shipments from the South Asian nation may total 4
million tons in the year from April 1, according to the All
India Rice Exporters Association.  Indian shipments will account for 11 percent of global
trade this calendar year, overtaking the U.S. and  Pakistan  to
become the third-largest shipper, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture , or USDA, in a Sept. 12 report.  “India should export more to benefit at a time when Thai
rice is not very competitive,” Mohanty said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net 
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Kutty Abraham at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net  