-- 
Thailand Flood Crisis to Stretch Into Fourth Month as Bangkok Under Threat

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-10-13T07:34:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/thailand-flood-crisis-to-stretch-into-fourth-month-as-bangkok-under-threat.html
Thailand  said floods that have
killed more than 283 people and hurt exports may last until the
month’s end, swamp Bangkok and cut deeper into economic growth.  “The damage hasn’t stopped,” Deputy Prime Minister
Kittiratt Na-Ranong said today. “It has spread widely. The
government and all agencies involved are working to limit damage
to the manufacturing sector and the economy.”  The three-month-old crisis has submerged towns and rice
fields, forced companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to shut
factories and prompted forecasters to slash estimates for Thai
economic expansion. Bangkok’s 9.7 million residents are hoarding
rice, instant noodles and bottled water, and buying sandbags as
they prepare to protect their homes.  A “huge amount of water” flowing from northern provinces
and peak tides predicted from Oct. 14-17 and Oct. 28-31 will
test barriers defending the capital, according to the
government’s flood center.  Costs are likely to rise from an earlier estimate that
indicated the disaster may pare economic growth by 0.6
percentage points to 0.9 percentage points, Kittiratt said.  The damage bill may rise to 156.7 billion baht ($5.1
billion) and curb growth by 1.3 percentage points to 1.5
percentage points, the University of the Thai Chamber of
Commerce said today.  The university, a private institution established by the
chamber, now expects the economy to grow by 3 percent to 3.5
percent this year.  Consumer confidence  declined to a four-month
low in September, a separate report showed today.  Helicopters Deployed  “Don’t underestimate the floods,” Energy Minister Pichai Naripthaphan said yesterday in an interview. “Anything can
happen with the power of water. We must be ready.”  Authorities yesterday used helicopters to drop food and
emergency supplies to people still stranded in Ayutthaya
province, where water has swamped World Heritage-listed temples
and crippled operations of Japanese manufacturers including
Nikon Corp. and Pioneer Corp.  Flooding has disrupted operations at 930 plants in 28
provinces, the Industry Ministry said in a statement yesterday.
The waters have affected 61 of the nation’s 77 provinces.  In Nakhon Sawan, north of Bangkok, power was cut to the
provincial capital of almost 100,000 people to avoid
electrocutions as rising floodwaters forced residents to
evacuate. That water will reach Ayutthaya between Oct. 14 and 17,
when peak tides are expected, before flowing down the Chao
Phraya river toward Bangkok, Pracha Promnog, head of the flood
center, said yesterday.  Sentiment Hurt  “The central bank can help the economy by holding its key
 interest rate  on Oct. 19,”  Thanavath Phonvichai , an economist at
the university, said today. “Consumer confidence is on a
downtrend. If they can cut the key rate, that will help boost
the economy next year.”  Thailand’s gross domestic product rose 2.6 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace since 2009.
A faltering world recovery also poses a threat to expansion.  In the capital, residents are grappling with conflicting
government warnings, with Defense Minister Yuthasak Sasiprapa
saying “no one can guarantee” Bangkok will be spared, while
the national flood center said the city has a 90 percent chance
of avoiding widespread damage.  “We can’t rely on the government,” said Siraporn Nikorata,
a 37-year-old nurse who was buying 10 bags of rice from a Tesco
Plc supermarket in the capital. “No one can guarantee what will
happen to Bangkok. We have to take care of ourselves first. I
need to protect my family.”  ‘Suffering’  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra yesterday urged food
producers not to raise prices, as shoppers anticipating
floodwaters emptied shelves at Tesco and Big C Supercenter Pcl
stores in parts of Bangkok.  “People are suffering,” said Yingluck, who took power
after her party won an election in July. “If you raise product
prices, people will try to stockpile more food, which will
create more problems.”  Authorities said shortages at some supermarkets were being
caused by logistics issues and bulk purchases for flood relief
rather than a lack of staple goods.  “We want to ask the public not to panic,”  Permanent
Secretary  for Commerce Yanyong Phuangrach said yesterday.  Floods have cut road and rail links in some parts of the
country, complicating efforts to transport goods, said Banyat
Kamnoonwat, assistant vice president of  CP All Pcl (CPALL) , which
operates 6,002 7-Eleven outlets in the country.  Necessities including rice, water and instant noodles are
still available, and the company has stored supplies to meet an
expected increase in demand, he said yesterday by phone.  “When consumers see empty shelves, that intensifies
worries and spurs hoarding,” Somchai Pornrattanacharoen,
president of the Wholesale and Retail Association, said this
week. “Increased production by some manufacturers isn’t enough
to meet demand, and replenishing stockpiles usually takes one to
three days.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  