-- 
Thailand Needs Cambodia Deal to Avoid Gas Shortages, Energy Minister Says

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-10-12T08:25:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/thailand-needs-cambodia-deal-to-avoid-gas-shortages-energy-minister-says.html
Thailand ’s petrochemical industry
may lose billions of dollars if the government fails to strike
an agreement with neighboring  Cambodia  on overlapping claims in
the Gulf of Thailand, Energy Minister Pichai Naripthaphan said.  “Thailand is running out of gas in 15 years,” he said in
an interview in Bangkok today. “Petrochemical companies rely on
components of wet gas from the Gulf of Thailand. Billions of
dollars every year will be gone if we can’t get more supply.”  Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s two-month-old
government has sought to mend ties with Cambodia after gun
battles in disputed border areas killed more than 20 people
since 2008. Waters claimed by both countries contain enough gas
to secure Thailand’s supply for 50 years, Pichai said.  Development in the  26,000 square kilometers , more than
twice the size of Qatar, has stalled for more than three
decades. Pichai said the “huge” gas reserves in the disputed
zone may at least be equal to the country’s current reserves,
which BP Plc estimates at 11 trillion cubic feet, about a 10th
of  China ’s gas reserves.  It will take at least 10 years to pump gas out of the
ground after a political agreement is reached, a process that is
now under way, said Pichai, 49.  “At this moment it looks very positive,” he said. “We
want to get it done and Cambodia wants to get it done. We just
need to make sure internal politics won’t be an obstacle.”  ‘Amicably Resolve’  Cambodian Deputy Prime Minister Sok An, who is also
chairman of the Cambodian National Petroleum Authority, said
Oct. 12 that negotiations would begin when both governments are
ready.  “Cambodia is determined to amicably resolve the dispute,”
he said, according to a  transcript  of his remarks. “A
resolution would enable the economic benefits that might arise
from oil and gas production in the area to be fairly allocated
between the two countries.”  In 2008, the last time ex-Thai leader  Thaksin Shinawatra ’s
allies were in power, protesters accused the government of
ceding sovereignty to Cambodia. Former Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva, now opposition leader, threatened to revoke an
agreement to demarcate the waters in 2009 after Cambodia named
Thaksin as an adviser.  Thailand’s petrochemical industry, based on the  gulf coast 
about 200 kilometers from Bangkok, has attracted investment from
 Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corp. and Siam
Cement Pcl. Thailand accounted for almost half of  Southeast
Asia ’s production of polyolefins, polymers used in making
plastic parts in appliances and automobiles.  Renegotiate Concessions  Thailand will seek to renegotiate concessions in the
overlapping area awarded in the 1970s to companies such as
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and Idemitsu Kosan Co. to ensure that state-run
PTT Pcl has a stake, Pichai said. In 1997, Cambodia awarded
concessions to  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , ConocoPhillips and Royal Dutch
Shell Plc.  “As a partner of both Thailand and Cambodia, we encourage
the two countries to resolve their differences so the OCA can be
developed for the benefit of both countries,” Gareth Johnstone,
a Singapore-based spokesman for Chevron, said today in an e-mail
response to questions, referring to the disputed area.  Natural gas fuels 72 percent of power generation in
Thailand, up from 62 percent in 2000 and 40 percent in 1990,
according to Energy Ministry statistics. Gas imports from
Myanmar, which started in 2000, accounted for 20 percent of
Thailand’s consumption last year,  statistics  show.  Electricity Prices  Gas piped from the Gulf of Thailand costs about $6 per
million British thermal units, compared with $18 for liquefied
natural gas, Pichai said. Thailand would be forced to import
more LNG if it can’t develop the disputed area, he said.  “People who don’t like Cambodia much may start to like
Cambodia more if they know that they’ll have to pay double for
electricity,” Pichai said.  Pichai plans a trip to Myanmar later this month in an
attempt to secure more gas in the face of “aggressive”
competition from China. That gas is used primarily for  power
plants , he said.  “The gas in the overlapping claims area may be more vital
because it has the petrochemical component that may create more
value added,” Pichai said. “Just bring it up and the value
will be there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  