-- 
Air France Crash Book Shows Transcript of Pilot Confusion

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-10-13T09:12:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/air-france-crash-book-shows-full-transcript-of-pilot-confusion.html
The first book investigating the Air
 France  447 crash into the Atlantic Ocean in 2009 supports
official conclusions that the pilots took the wrong measures to
avert disaster that killed all 228 on board.  Publishing what he says is the first full transcript of the
pilots’ voice recordings, French aviation author Jean-Pierre
Otelli describes a scene in the Airbus SAS cockpit that is
dominated by confusion, a lack of coordination, and denial among
the flight crew as the jet plunged through the night sky toward
the ocean surface. Otelli, who specializes in aviation safety,
publishes his book “Piloting Error, Volume 5” today.  Aviation investigators have been able to piece together the
last hours of the June 2009 flight from  Rio de Janeiro  to Paris
after retrieving the flight and data recorders from the ocean
ground following a two-year search. France’s BEA investigator
has published two reports that contained only select
transcripts. The reports showed the crew pulled the jet into a
steep climb until it slowed to an aerodynamic stall before
slumping into the sea.  “This accident, and the mystery surrounding it, elicited
huge emotion in France as well as in Brazil,” Otelli writes.
“Beyond the questions raised about modern air safety and pilot
training, the crash of the Rio-Paris flight will remain a case
study in the annals of air transport.”  Ice-Blocked Tubes  The BEA accident investigation bureau said it ’’strongly
condemns’’ the disclosure of the full transcript. The mention of
personal conversations between the crew members “have no
bearing on the event, which shows a lack of respect for the
memory of the late crew members,” the bureau said.  The BEA will issue a final report on the accident June 2012
following meetings of experts that will examine pilot behaviors
in stressful situations. An interim report from a criminal probe
earlier this month broadly endorsed the findings by the BEA in a
report in May, which showed ice-blocked speed sensors shut down
the aircraft’s autopilot and the crew reacting incorrectly.  The French aviation safety authority earlier this year
released only limited portions of pilots’ conversations to help
shed light on what occurred in the cockpit. Air France SA said
yesterday that the information in the book was ’’non-verified,
and non-verifiable,’’ saying it brought “no new elements.”  Meat Cargo  “At this stage, the analysis done by judicial experts and
the technical investigation led by the BEA don’t permit any
definitive conclusions to be drawn,” the Paris-based airline
said in a statement commenting on Otelli’s book.  Otelli’s presentation of the night’s events showcase the
relative inexperience of the pilot who was controlling the
plane. At 32 years of age, he was the youngest and least tested,
with less than a third of the flight hours of the captain who
was almost twice his age, and only a handful of flights to  South
America .  When the captain prepared to leave the cockpit for routine
crew rest, he asked the young pilot if he had a full airline
pilot’s license, rather than just a commercial pilot license,
Otelli’s account shows. The captain returned to the flight deck
in the last moments of the flight, but never resumed control.  Anyone for Whisky?  As the plane hurtled vertically toward the sea, time to
salvage the aircraft quickly ran out, Otelli writes. Aggravating
the situation was the fact that neither of the co-pilots
appeared entirely sure at times who had the controls of the
plane.  The book acts as a fly-on-the-wall account that reveals
some of the more trivial banter in the cockpit in the hours
before the deadly impact.  At one point, a flight attendant enters the cockpit to
inquire if the temperature in the baggage hold could be lowered
to protect the meat she’s brought back in her suitcase from
 Brazil , Otelli’s transcript says. The pilot acquiesces, joking
that they’d send her the bill for the extra fuel consumed.  Earlier in the flight, the captain and the younger co-pilot
are enjoying music from a portable player after dinner,
prompting the junior pilot to joke that “all we need is
whisky,” Otelli writes.  Air France and Airbus were charged in March with
manslaughter in the criminal investigation, an interim status
that does not mean they will stand trial. Both companies deny
the charges. Lawyers for Air France, Airbus and the crew did not
return messages left at their offices and on their mobile phones
for comment.  “It reflects what has already been published by the BEA,”
Airbus spokesman  Stefan Schaffrath  said by e-mail.  “Piloting Error, Volume 5,” is published by Altipresse,
based near Paris, for 24 euros ($33).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net 
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  