-- 
Haitong Leads Rally for Brokerages on Report of Cross-Border ETF Approval

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-12T08:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/haitong-leads-rally-for-brokerages-on-report-of-cross-border-etf-approval.html
Haitong Securities Co. jumped by the
maximum 10 percent in  Shanghai , leading a rally for Chinese
brokerages, after Xinhua News Agency reported the securities
regulator approved cross-border exchange-traded funds.  Haitong Securities, the third-biggest brokerage by market
value, surged 0.81 yuan to 8.87 yuan, the most since December
16, 2008. Citic Securities Co., the largest brokerage, gained
6.2 percent to 11.91 yuan. The China Securities Regulatory
Commission signaled the go ahead for cross-border ETFs, Xinhua
reported in a flash headline, citing an unidentified person. The
report didn’t provide any more details.  “The introduction of cross-border ETFs will add a new
profit engine for brokers for the long term,” said  Li Jun , a
strategist at Central China Securities Co. “It will help boost
investors’ confidence in brokerage shares.”  ETFs mimic the performance of an index and trade like
stocks. Chinese investors may benefit from the introduction of
ETFs tracking overseas indexes as they currently have limited
access to foreign stocks. China’s stock exchanges plan to more
than double the number of ETFs they offer in 2011, aiming to
spur investor interest in the world’s worst-performing major
equities market last year, according to interviews with exchange
officials in Shanghai and Shenzhen in March.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index advanced 71 points,
or 3 percent, to 2,420 today, the most since Oct. 15, 2010. The
gauge tracking financial companies including banks and brokers
in the CSI 300 Index jumped 4.5 percent, the most among 10
industry groups.  A proposal to list Hong Kong ETFs on Chinese exchanges has
been submitted to the China Securities Regulatory Commission,
the China Securities Journal reported Sept. 8, citing an
unidentified person at stock exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  