-- 
Taiwan Jet Deal Aids Ally Without Provoking Rival China: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-12T00:01:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/taiwan-jet-deal-aids-ally-without-provoking-rival-china-view.html
The 100th  anniversary  marking the
fall of  China ’s last imperial dynasty upped tensions in the
Taiwan Strait, with Chinese President  Hu Jintao  calling for
“reunification through peaceful means” and his Taiwanese
counterpart, Ma Ying-jeou, responding that he was just fine with
the status quo.  The last thing needed is outside provocation. So we applaud
the Obama administration’s compromise decision last month to go
ahead with a $5.85 billion deal to upgrade Taiwan’s existing
fleet of F-16 fighter jets.  Taiwan had wanted the U.S. to sell it 66 newer versions of
the aircraft, and leaders of both parties in Congress pressured
the administration to do so. China objects to any arms sale to
Taiwan. The U.S. is obligated by a 1979 law to supply weapons to
Taiwan, whose government broke from mainland China in 1949 after
the Communist Party came to power.  The campaign for selling newer aircraft to Taiwan was led
by Democratic Senator  Robert Menendez  of  New Jersey  and
Republican Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas , where  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  manufactures the F-16. A study commissioned by Lockheed
estimated that selling Taiwan new planes would have been worth
$8.7 billion and created about 16,000 jobs at a time when the
U.S desperately needs to reduce unemployment. The assembly line
might close now that the sale is off the table.  Needless Provocation  Yet selling new planes to Taiwan might have needlessly
provoked China, a vital U.S. trade partner. Although China vies
with the U.S. for influence in the region, the two nations also
cooperate (sometimes fitfully) on a number of military and
diplomatic issues, including keeping  North Korea  in check. China
temporarily severed military ties with the U.S. after a round of
arms sales to Taiwan in 2010 and has said it may do so again.  Taiwan, which publicly expressed gratitude for the upgrade
deal, has to be privately disappointed. It has 400 combat
aircraft, including 145 F-16s, 56 French-made Daussault Mirages
and 60 F-5s. This fleet is no match for the 2,300 combat
aircraft that China possesses. This imbalance doesn’t take
account of 1,100 missiles aimed across the 100-mile-wide  Taiwan
Strait  at the island that China considers a province temporarily
occupied by a renegade regime.  The U.S. commitment to ensuring that the island is
adequately armed makes diplomatic sense. Taiwan’s deterrent
capability goes hand-in-hand with a thaw in relations between
Taipei and Beijing. Direct air service between China and Taiwan
started in 2008, and educational and cultural exchanges are
increasing. Taiwan President Ma has renewed calls for China to
respect the island’s self-governance.  Jet Crashes  Under the agreement, Taiwan’s A/B versions of the  F-16  will
be overhauled and given most of the capabilities of more
advanced C/D models of the plane, including all-weather
navigation and offensive firepower. The upgrade may have one
distinct advantage: The Obama administration says it can be done
more quickly than building new planes.  But the F-16 retrofitting deal leaves one issue unresolved.
Many of  Taiwan ’s planes have outlived their useful life. Most
troubling: Two Taiwanese F-5s crashed last month killing three
people. An investigation is under way to determine the cause,
but crashes of combat aircraft are often traced to mechanical
failures. Taiwan temporarily grounded its F-5s, planes from the
Vietnam War era, and repeated its request to buy new F-16s.  If Taiwan can prove -- perhaps with assistance from U.S.
military analysts -- that the wear and tear on its fighter jets
has rendered too many of them obsolete or unsafe, the Obama
administration should reconsider selling the newer aircraft.
Placating China at the expense of an ally’s ability to defend
itself isn’t a trade-off worth making.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 