-- 
JAT Capital Said to Jump 31% This Year on Market-Neutral Bets

-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 
2011-10-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/thaler-s-jat-tops-hedge-funds-with-bet-against-chinese-internet-companies.html
John A. Thaler’s $3 billion global
long-short hedge fund, JAT Capital Management LP, jumped 31
percent this year through September as the manager’s market-
neutral stance and short positions drove returns, according to
four people familiar with the matter.  Thaler’s short holdings, or bets that stock prices will
fall, more than offset declines in his long positions as markets
slumped, said three of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private.  The New York-based fund, whose assets have tripled since
Dec. 31, stopped accepting new capital from investors on Oct. 1
and may reopen next year, the people said. Hedge funds on
average dropped 0.9 percent in the year’s first nine months and
long-short managers posted losses of 2.6 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Steve Bruce , an outside spokesman for the firm, declined to
comment on JAT’s returns.  The fund has typically swung between about 10 percent net
long or short in the past 18 months, the people said. It
currently has gross exposure of about 200 percent, using
leverage to magnify its long and short wagers, and a market-
neutral position with zero net exposure, they said.  JAT has a “philosophy of making money on both sides of the
book,” according to a marketing document dated Aug. 31 that was
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Baidu Inc., the Beijing-based Internet search-engine
operator whose American depositary receipts were one of JAT’s
biggest stakes at midyear according to a regulatory filing,
plunged 27 percent last month, the people said.  Short Bets  The loss was mitigated by short bets Thaler placed on other
Chinese Internet stocks, which tumbled amid a dimming global
economic outlook and growing regulatory scrutiny. The  U.S.
Department of Justice  is reviewing allegations of accounting
fraud at firms operating from the Asian nation, Securities and
Exchange Commission Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in
a Reuters interview published Sept. 29.  JAT declined 3.2 percent in September, matching the average
fund’s loss during the worst month for the $2 trillion hedge
fund industry in more than a year. Long-short funds dropped 4.4
percent last month as the worsening European debt crisis
exacerbated market declines, Bloomberg data show.  Thaler, 36, grew up on  Long Island . He received his
bachelor’s degree in economics at the University of  Chicago  and
became a banking analyst at Merrill Lynch & Co. and an associate
at private-equity firm Spectrum Equity Investors LP.  Shumway Capital  Thaler joined Chris Shumway’s Shumway Capital Partners LLC
at its inception in 2002 as an analyst covering
telecommunications, media and technology. He eventually managed
the SCP Omni Fund, which traded stocks in those industries,
before leaving in 2007 to open his own hedge fund with start-up
capital from Shumway. He began JAT that November with more than
$220 million in assets, the people said.  JAT started with 90 percent of its investments in telecom,
media and technology and now has half in those industries and
half in consumer, industrial and gaming companies, which have
driven the majority of profits this year. The firm employs 31
people, three of whom also worked at Greenwich, Connecticut-
based Shumway: Ken Palumbo, 40, Shumway’s former chief operating
officer and now JAT’s president; Eduardo Costa, 35, an analyst
in Thaler’s fund at Shumway and now JAT’s director of research;
and Kristy Kennedy, a marketing director at Shumway and now head
of marketing at JAT.  Thaler generally aims to hold long positions for two years
and short positions for three to 12 months, the people said.  ‘Find a Thesis’  Baidu has been one of JAT’s five largest long holdings for
almost two years, regulatory filings show. JAT currently has
about 100 long and short positions, according to the people.
About half of the fund’s investments are currently in companies
with less than $10 billion in market value, they said. The
majority of its stakes can be liquidated within five business
days.  Thaler and his investment team of seven industry heads and
three analysts spend the majority of their time on research, the
people said. JAT’s risk-management process is designed to
insulate the fund from market volatility, they said.  “Find a thesis, not a stock idea,” the firm said in the
marketing document. “JAT Capital conducts a bottom-up ‘kick-
the-tires’ approach to research that forms the foundation of
ideas.”  JAT gained 11 percent last year and 20 percent in 2009,
according to the document. The firm lost 5.9 percent in 2008 and
0.7 percent in November and December 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  