-- 
McCaw’s Foot Is ‘Fine’ Before World Cup Semifinal, All Blacks Coach Says

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-12T22:54:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/all-blacks-coach-hansen-says-mccaw-s-foot-is-fine-before-cup-semifinals.html
Richie McCaw’s foot is “fine” and
the  New Zealand  captain is set to lead his team in the Rugby
World Cup semifinal against  Australia , All Blacks assistant
coach Steve Hansen said.  McCaw, who had a screw inserted into a bone in his right
foot in February, has managed the injury throughout the
tournament and is again training lightly before the Oct. 16 game
at Auckland’s  Eden Park , Hansen said.  The appearance of Canterbury open-side flanker Matt Todd at
All Blacks training yesterday sparked speculation that McCaw,
the only three-time world player of the year, was in doubt for
the game at Eden Park and may even follow fly-halves  Dan Carter 
and  Colin Slade , and full-back Mils Muliaina in being ruled out
of the tournament.  “Matt Todd’s in Auckland and it just made commonsense to
have him here,” Hansen said today at a news conference. “That
doesn’t mean to say that Richie’s foot is worse than it was, it
doesn’t mean that Richie’s not playing, it just means that Matt
Todd was in Auckland and that we wanted to use him for training
as opposition.”  Todd deputized for McCaw in the southern hemisphere’s Super
Rugby competition earlier this year when McCaw was unavailable
after being diagnosed with a stress fracture in his foot and
having the screw inserted.  McCaw missed New Zealand’s World Cup pool game against
 Japan  with a calf problem and withdrew on the eve of the match
against  Canada  because his foot was “niggly.” He played 72
minutes of the 33-10 quarterfinal win over  Argentina .  ‘Tough Game’  “It was tough game for loose forwards because the Pumas
were outstanding defensively and got a lot of numbers in the
breakdown,” Hansen said. “I thought he played well.”  New Zealand, which is seeking a first World Cup title in 24
years, is scheduled to announce its semifinal team tomorrow. The
only player in the 30-man squad who may be unavailable for
selection is flanker Adam Thomson, who’s struggling to overcome
an ankle injury, Hansen said.  “Our loose forwards have got niggles, but I’d suggest so
have the other three sides,” Hansen said. “That’s what
tournament rugby is about. The fittest stay the strongest and
longest and you play with the niggles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  