-- 
AMAG Board Says Shareholders Should Vote for Allos Purchase

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-10-12T20:15:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/amag-board-says-shareholders-should-vote-for-allos-acquisition.html
AMAG Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMAG) , the maker
of the anemia drug Feraheme, urged investors today to support
its $189 million bid for cancer drugmaker  Allos Therapeutics
Inc. (ALTH)  over the objections of MSMB Capital Management.  MSMB Capital, a New York-based hedge fund that owns 5.9
percent of AMAG, said in a statement yesterday that it opposes
AMAG’s attempt to purchase Allos. MSMB in August made an
unsolicited $378 million offer for AMAG, based in Lexington,
 Massachusetts .  AMAG is working with Allos, based in Westminster,  Colorado ,
to complete the all-stock acquisition valued at $2.44 a share
when the deal was announced in July. It’s now worth about $1.79
after declines in AMAG’s share price. AMAG investors are
scheduled to vote on the Allos acquisition on Oct. 21.  “Do not rely on MSMB Capital’s illusory proposal,” AMAG
said in a filing today to investors. “Your Board believes that
the combination with Allos will create a financially strong
company.”  Allos shares were unchanged at $1.45 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. AMAG gained 5.3 percent to $13.94.  “Allos shareholders are getting an excellent price -- and
AMAG shareholders may be overpaying,” MSMB said in its
statement. Martin Shkreli, MSMB’s chief investment officer, said
in announcing his takeover bid on Aug. 3 that AMAG had been
mismanaged.  AMAG wants to add Allos to acquire its lymphoma drug
Folotyn, which AMAG said has a common customer base. AMAG is
seeking new revenue after Feraheme failed to meet second-quarter
estimates by five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales of
Folotyn may slow though, Citibank analyst Yaron Werber in New
York said in an Oct. 5 note to clients that disparaged the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  