-- 
Apple Is Most Valuable Global Brand as Microsoft Tops Google

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-10-12T14:11:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/apple-most-valuable-global-brand.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPod
music player and the iPhone, is the most valuable global brand,
beating  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the  European Brand Institute  said.  Apple topped the list, with a brand value of 69.7 billion
euros ($96 billion), in a study of more than 3,000 companies in
24 countries, the Vienna-based institute said.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
took third spot, one ahead of rival  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Apple overtook
Google in brand value in May in a separate report by WPP Plc’s
Millward Brown unit.  North American brands performed twice as well as European
counterparts in value terms, according to the institute, which
compiled global rankings for the first time. The top 10 brand
companies were all U.S.-based.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest
luxury-goods maker, retained its position as the most valuable
brand corporation in Europe, the 15th globally.  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) , the world’s biggest mobile-phone operator, and Anheuser-
Busch InBev NV, the maker of Budweiser and  Stella Artois , ranked
second and third.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , which topped the European list in 2009 and came
second last year, dropped to 14th place this year, 45th globally.  The institute, which includes public and private companies
in its annual listing, uses an in-house methodology to calculate
value and rankings based on factors including market value,
brand revenue and overall sales.  Brand corporations in Finland, Switzerland, Luxembourg,
Sweden, Denmark and Austria made the highest contribution to
their respective economies, the institute said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  