-- 
Apple Using ICloud to Lock in Users After Online Misfires: Tech

-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 
2011-10-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/apple-using-icloud-to-lock-in-users-after-online-misfires-tech.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iCloud service, part of
its first product release since the Oct. 5 death of  Steve Jobs ,
may cement the loyalty of millions of consumers lured by Jobs’s
pioneering mobile devices over the past decade.  The service will automatically store photos, songs and
other files on servers at Apple’s data centers and sync them
with all of a customer’s gadgets. A photo taken with an iPhone
would appear within seconds on a user’s iPad, iPod Touch, Apple
TV set-top box and any personal computer running iTunes.  The move steps up competition with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
and other mobile-device rivals by making it harder to switch
away from Apple products, said Bill Whyman, a technology analyst
with  International Strategy & Investment Group . If iCloud works
as advertised -- something Apple’s previous online products
haven’t always achieved -- the convenience of no longer needing
to upload, download or sync files may lead many customers to buy
exclusively from Apple, he said.  “ICloud could raise the switching costs for the customer,
and the barriers to entry for the competitor,” Whyman said.
“That’s very powerful.”  Walter Price, a portfolio manager at RCM Capital
Management, has estimated that iCloud could increase Apple’s
market value by $100 billion to $500 billion, due to the
service’s effect on hardware sales and purchases of songs,
movies and other media. The Cupertino, California-based company
is already the world’s most valuable business, with a
capitalization of $371.1 billion.  ‘Just Works’  ICloud will be included free along with an update of
Apple’s iOS mobile software, which will be made available to
customers today. The service marks Apple’s most ambitious effort
to expand its Internet-based operations beyond the basic iTunes
store, which doles out songs, TV shows, audio books and mobile
apps to one device at a time.  “Keeping these devices in sync is driving us crazy,”
Jobs, then chief executive officer, said when he introduced
iCloud at Apple’s Worldwide Developers Conference in June. With
the new service, he said, “everything happens automatically and
there’s nothing new to learn. It all just works.”  To succeed, Apple will need to improve on its mixed record
in online services. Since Jobs returned to the company in 1997,
the company has unveiled a series of Internet features. While
iTunes and its  App Store  took off, some were quickly forgotten,
such as an Apple-staffed editorial site to recommend websites
called iReview. An online storage service named  iDisk  also never
caught on. And a synchronization service called  MobileMe 
suffered high-profile outages and performance problems after it
was introduced in 2008.  Walled Garden  If iCloud is a hit, it could help Apple build thicker walls
around its carefully controlled ecosystem of devices, at a time
when Google, Facebook Inc. and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  are trying to
lock in users to their own technologies.  Price predicts that iCloud will magnify Apple’s strength as
a content distributor. If more customers buy only Apple devices,
they’re more likely to get their music, TV shows and other forms
of media from Apple -- rather than from  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , Amazon and
Comcast Corp.  ICloud is one of many features in Apple’s new mobile
operating system, called iOS 5. The software also includes a
service called iMessage that lets Apple customers send  text
messages  to each other. And iOS 5 includes better integration
with Twitter Inc.; a service for seeing the location of other
iOS devices; and Cards, for people who want to create greeting
cards and have Apple print and mail them.  Photo Stream  ICloud itself is comprised of a handful of separate free
services. One called Photo Stream automatically stores a user’s
1,000 most recently taken pictures and syncs them with a
customer’s iOS devices. Another one ensures that all the
machines have the latest version of memos and spreadsheets
created with Apple’s iWork applications.  Apple will charge $25 for a service called iTunes Match,
which lets music fans automatically sync songs in their iTunes
library that weren’t purchased from Apple. Apple will also
charge for extra storage on its servers, offering the first 5
gigabytes for free.  ICloud is a risky, if necessary, move for Apple, said
 Stephen Baker , an analyst at  NPD Group . One challenge: Customers
will need to balance the convenience of iCloud with the cost of
running up their monthly bandwidth fees. For now, many of the
iCloud services only work over Wi-Fi networks. If the company
wants to let customers also sync files over cellular networks --
when out of range of a Wi-Fi hot spot -- “someone is going to
have to pay for the bandwidth,” Baker said.  ‘Hotel  California ’  If Apple makes it difficult for consumers to move files to
rival online services, iCloud also could infringe users’ rights
to their own information, said Jonathan Zittrain, co-founder of
the Berkman Center for Internet & Society.  “Just because Apple’s in Silicon Valley doesn’t mean it
should run the Hotel California,” where data enters but can
never leave, he said.  Then there’s the risk of disruptions, said Trip Chowdhry,
an analyst at Global Equities Research. Not having access to the
iTunes store due to an outage is an inconvenience. Losing one’s
family photos or business documents is far more serious, he
said. Millions of consumers may try iCloud, but would quickly go
back to using existing services such as Google’s Gmail or
Dropbox Inc. if it isn’t easy and reliable from the start.  “There’s no second chance to get it right,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  