-- 
Arbs See Best Mining Deal Profit in Sundance’s China-Africa Ties: Real M&A

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-10-13T05:41:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/arbs-see-best-mining-deal-profit-in-sundance-s-china-africa-ties-real-m-a.html
No mining takeover in the world is
offering arbitragers a bigger potential windfall than
Australia’s Sundance Resources Ltd.  Sundance, owner of the $4.7 billion Mbalam  iron ore  project
in Africa, agreed to sell itself to Sichuan Hanlong Group after
the Chinese conglomerate boosted its offer last week. While the
agreement was struck at the biggest premium for a metals or
mining company in five years, Sundance has given up most of its
share gain since Hanlong’s proposal was first announced in July.  By betting the acquisition will succeed, traders now stand
to reap a 31 percent profit, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. While Sundance has retreated on speculation that the
deal may face delays as both Sundance and Hanlong seek approvals
from Australia, Cameroon and the Republic of Congo, CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets says the Chinese government’s economic ties with
the two African nations will help bolster support for the A$1.36
billion ($1.4 billion) takeover.  “The deal will be completed,” said  Michael Evans , Sydney-
based analyst at CLSA. The negotiations between the companies
and the governments involved are “more advanced than the market
or the share price is suggesting,” he said.  Paul Armstrong , a spokesman for Perth, Australia-based
Sundance, and Ilse Schache, a spokeswoman for Hanlong in Sydney,
both declined to comment on the drop in Sundance’s share price.  Hanlong, located in  Chengdu  in  China ’s southwestern
province of Sichuan, has investments in highway and power
projects and said last year it will spend as much as $5 billion
on resource assets to feed China’s demand for commodities.  Acquisition Detail  The company acquired 16 percent of Sundance in March from
Talbot Group after millionaire mining magnate  Ken Talbot  was
among the Sundance board members killed in a plane crash in the
Congolese jungle in June 2010.  After becoming Sundance’s largest shareholder, Hanlong made
an unsolicited bid of A$1.2 billion, or 50 cents a share in
cash, in July. Hanlong then increased its proposal to 57 cents a
share, 43 percent higher than Sundance’s price of 40 cents prior
to the initial offer and a 68 percent premium to its 20-day
average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While Sundance climbed as high as 54 cents, the stock ended
at 43.5 cents today after declining almost 20 percent since
July. The gap is now the widest for any mining takeover in
percentage terms and second-largest of any billion-dollar
acquisition in the world, the data show.  Buying Sundance will give Hanlong control of the Mbalam
rail, port and mine project straddling  Cameroon  and Congo.  510-Kilometer Railroad  Sundance said in April that it intended to build a 510-
kilometer (320-mile) heavy-haulage railroad through Cameroon and
a deep water port for bulk iron ore carriers and aimed to start
shipping iron ore by 2014. Once completed, the mine will produce
35 million metric tons a year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Before Hanlong can start work and begin building out the
rail and port capacity, the companies must obtain a mining
permit from Congo, while Cameroon needs to adopt laws covering
taxation and royalty payments that will provide an investment
framework for the project, according to CLSA’s Evans.  Concern the deal will unravel because of the regulatory
approval process may be misplaced. The company has already
received drafts of the mining concession and terms of the mining
permit from both governments, said Evans, who cited an investor
call on Oct. 5 with Sundance Chairman  George Jones  and Chief
Executive Officer Giulio Casello.  Loans and Timber  Having a Chinese buyer for the mining project in western
 Africa  may also help expedite the approvals because Cameroon has
received “substantial” interest-free loans from China, while
the world’s fastest-growing major economy is also the biggest
purchaser of Congolese timber, Evans said.  “It’s a Chinese buyer, it’s an underdeveloped western
African asset with large  capital requirements ,” said  Chris Weston , a dealer at IG Markets in  Melbourne . “If you looked
long and hard at the situation, and you really thought the deal
was going to go through, there’s great upside.”  Roddy Barclay, an analyst on the Africa desk at  Control
Risks  in  London , said the re-election of Paul Biya, who has
ruled for almost three decades as president of Cameroon, will
also bolster confidence that the government’s policies for the
 mining industry  won’t be undermined by political upheaval.  “The likely re-election of Biya will signal a continuation
of the status quo with regards to the government’s interactions
with businesses,” he said. “There is unlikely to be a radical
shift in government policy toward the mining sector in the
immediate term.”  The results of the Oct. 9 elections aren’t known yet.  Welcome Mat  While an investigation in  Australia  of Hanlong employees
suspected of  insider trading  in relation to Sundance may delay
the Foreign Investment Review Board’s ruling on the takeover,
 Michael McCarthy , chief market strategist at CMC Markets Asia
Pacific Pty, said the deal will likely to be approved because
Sundance’s mine isn’t a strategic asset to Australia.  Hanlong said in an e-mailed statement that the company
wasn’t under investigation over the insider trading allegations
and that it is cooperating with all the relevant government and
regulatory bodies. Peter Arden, an analyst with Ord Minnett Ltd.
in Melbourne, didn’t consider the investigation a “serious
impediment” to the success of the acquisition.  “I don’t see these resources as being considered
strategic,” CMC Markets’ McCarthy said. “There’s a much higher
level of eagerness to welcome Chinese groups in Africa than
possibly what we’ve seen in Australia so far.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  