-- 
Mark Hurd Lawyers Appeal Ruling on Unsealing Fisher Letter

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-10-12T17:43:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/mark-hurd-lawyers-appeal-ruling-on-unsealing-of-fisher-letter.html
Lawyers for former Hewlett-Packard
Co. Chief Executive Officer  Mark Hurd  sought to keep secret a
letter about his relationship with contractor Jodie Fisher,
contending in Delaware  Supreme Court  today that the contents are
private.  In March, Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons Jr.
ruled that a copy of the letter, with a few redactions, be made
public. The order was stayed after Hurd appealed to the state’s
high court.  “The right to public access is non-existent,” and the
parties have “a constitutional right to privacy,” Hurd’s
lawyer, Rolin P. Bissell, told the justices at a public hearing
in Dover.  Publicizing the letter will provide “a full opportunity to
air out” background details of Hurd’s departure,’’ Felipe
Arroyo, a lawyer for shareholder Ernesto Espinoza, told the
panel.  The letter was sent to Hurd by Fisher’s lawyer,  Gloria Allred , and is part of a Chancery case filed by Espinoza seeking
access to company books and records. The letter contains
accusations of sexual harassment and details of Hurd’s alleged
advances toward Fisher and her rejection of them, according to
Parsons’s ruling.  August 2010 Resignation  Hurd is now president of software maker  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  He
resigned from  Palo Alto , California-based HP in August 2010
after a company investigation determined he violated its
standards of business conduct. HP said it didn’t find that Hurd
had violated the company’s sexual-harassment policy.  Espinoza also wants to see an internal report prepared for
the HP board by lawyers at Covington & Burling LLP as part of
his investigation into possible waste by directors. Parsons on
March 25 denied Espinoza access to the report.  “The Covington report is essential to understanding the
deliberative process of the board when it made its decision not
to fire Hurd,” and give him a severance package of as much as
$40 million, Espinoza lawyer Blake Bennett said in court papers.  “Plaintiff did not demonstrate the requisite need for the
report to assess the board’s decisions” because other
information is available, said Hewlett-Packard’s attorney, Peter J. Walsh Jr., in a pre-hearing document.  The letter was sent to Hurd by Allred in an attempt to
arrange private mediation with Fisher. It includes allegations
that Hurd misused corporate funds to “wine and dine Fisher”
and leaked potential non-public information about the company to
her, Parsons said in his ruling.  The Chancery case is Espinoza v.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,
CA6000, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington). The appeal is Hurd
v. Spinoza, 167, 2001, Delaware Supreme Court (Dover).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  