-- 
Arms Dealer Bout Planned Sale to Terrorists, Prosecutor Says at Trial

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-10-12T18:06:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/arms-dealer-bout-planned-sale-to-terrorists-prosecutor-says-at-trial.html
Viktor Bout , the alleged
international arms dealer once called the “merchant of death,”
agreed to sell weapons to a foreign terrorist group he believed
planned to kill Americans, a prosecutor said.  “He jumped at the opportunity,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Brendan McGuire said during opening arguments of Bout’s trial,
which began today in federal court in  Manhattan  before U.S.
District Judge Shira Scheindlin.  Bout, a former Soviet air force officer, was arrested in
Bangkok in March 2008 in a sting operation by undercover sources
who told him they were buying weapons for the Revolutionary
Armed Forces of  Colombia , or FARC.  The U.S. accused Bout of agreeing to sell millions of
dollars worth of weapons, including surface-to-air missiles,
armor-piercing rocket launchers and AK-47 rifles, to  FARC , a
Marxist insurgency that’s classified as a terrorist organization
by the U.S. and the European Union.  McGuire began his opening argument by listing the weapons
Bout was alleged to be providing: 100 surface-to-air missiles,
20,000 machine guns, 20,000 grenades, 740 mortars, 350 sniper
rifles, 10 million rounds of ammunition and five tons of C-4
explosives.  Prosecutors said Bout controlled a fleet of as many as 50
cargo planes capable of transporting weapons and military
equipment to Africa,  South America  and the  Middle East .  Bout was framed by U.S. undercover sources who pulled a
“bait and switch,” his lawyer said today.  No Intent  “They baited Viktor by pretending they were interested in
purchasing two cargo airplanes,” Albert Dayan told jurors in
his opening argument. “They then planned to inject a
conversation about arms into that deal.”  Bout “never wanted to, never intended to, and was never
going to sell arms to anyone in this case,” Dayan said.  Bout, dressed in a dark suit and blue tie, with short brown
hair and a mustache, looked considerably thinner than he did in
a 2008 photograph displayed in the courtroom. He sat with his
two lawyers.  The first government witness today was William Brown, a
U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration agent who managed the
investigation. The three undercover sources used to make contact
with Bout and his associates and pretend to be FARC members were
paid almost $1 million for their work on the case, he testified.  Diplomatic Dispute  Bout was brought to  New York  in November from  Thailand  in a
move that fueled a diplomatic dispute between the U.S. and
 Russia , which called the transfer an “illegal extradition.”  In July, Scheindlin denied a bid by Bout to dismiss the
charges on grounds that there was no legal connection between
his alleged crime and the U.S. Scheindlin said in her opinion
that the indictment alleges Bout knew that FARC intended to use
weapons to kill U.S. forces in Colombia.  “At that point, Bout should have reasonably anticipated
being hauled into court in this country,” the judge wrote in
her opinion.  Scheindlin in August granted a motion from Bout’s lawyers
to exclude statements he made to DEA agents after his arrest in
Bangkok in March 2008, saying the agents ignored Bout’s request
for more time to decide whether to talk.  U.S. Nationals  Bout is charged with conspiracy to kill U.S. nationals,
conspiracy to kill U.S. officers or employees, conspiracy to
acquire an anti-aircraft missile and conspiracy to provide
material support to a designated foreign terrorist group. If
convicted, he faces as long as life in prison.  Peter Hain, the former top U.K. Foreign Ministry official
for  Africa , called Bout a “merchant of death” in a 2000
speech, a phrase that became the title of a 2007 book by authors
Douglas Farah and Stephen Braun. Prosecutors in May agreed to
stop calling Bout the “merchant of death” after defense
attorneys objected to its use.  The case is U.S. v. Bout, 08-cr-0365, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 Djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 