-- 
Pennsylvania Capital Harrisburg Files for Bankruptcy, Council Lawyer Says

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-10-12T05:49:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/harrisburg-city-council-votes-4-3-to-seek-bankruptcy-protection.html
The city of Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania , facing a state takeover of its finances, filed for
bankruptcy protection following a vote by the City Council,
according to a lawyer for the council.  Mark D. Schwartz , a Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania-based lawyer
and former head of municipal bonds for Prudential Financial
Inc.’s mid-Atlantic region, said he filed the documents by fax
to a federal  bankruptcy court  last night. The filing couldn’t be
confirmed with the  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Harrisburg.  The state capital of 49,500 faces a debt burden five times
its general-fund budget because of an overhaul and expansion of
a trash-to-energy incinerator that doesn’t generate enough
revenue.  “This was a last resort,” Schwartz said in an interview
after the council voted 4-3 to seek  bankruptcy protection .
“They’re at their wits' end.”  While bankruptcy would mean the loss of state aid under a
law passed in June, it’s preferable to a proposed recovery plan,
said Councilwoman Susan Brown-Wilson.  “We’re not incompetent,” Brown-Wilson said. “We’re just
not going to let you run us over with the train anymore,” she
said, referring to state officials.  Jason Hess, the acting city attorney, told the council
members before the vote that they didn’t follow procedure and
their action wouldn’t be binding. The members went ahead anyway.  Preparing for bankruptcy is going to mire the city in
litigation it can’t afford, said Councilwoman Patty Kim, who
voted against it.  ‘Don’t Have Money’  “The problem still exists that we still don’t have money,
and we still haven’t moved one foot forward,” Kim said.  Harrisburg, the seat of Dauphin County, needs $310 million
to make bond payments, restructure debt and repay the county and
insurer  Assured Guaranty  Municipal Corp., which made payments
the city skipped on the waste-to-energy facility. Schwartz said
he expects Assured Guaranty will reduce the value of its debt.  “Why should they be first in line?” he said.  In an opinion article published yesterday in a local
newspaper, the Patriot-News, the four council members who voted
for bankruptcy  said  Assured Guaranty and bondholders should
forgive at least $100 million of the debt.  They also said there should be a countywide sales tax of 1
percent to help pay off the debt. Schwartz, in the interview,
said that could forestall asset sales.  Assets, Debt  In a copy of the Chapter 9 petition provided by Schwartz,
the city lists both assets and debt of $100 million to $500
million. According to the copy, the city has 49 or fewer
creditors.  The Pennsylvania Senate is scheduled to take up legislation
next week that would make Harrisburg the first municipality in
the state to be placed in receivership.  The council in July and August rejected fiscal rescue
blueprints from consultants hired by the state and Mayor  Linda Thompson , triggering the legislative response.  The bill would let Republican Governor Tom Corbett declare
a fiscal emergency in Harrisburg and name a receiver who would
develop a recovery plan. The manager would be able to sell
assets, hire advisers and suspend the authority of elected
officials who interfere. Unlike in  Michigan , the receiver
wouldn’t be able to change union contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  