-- 
Asia Institutions to Cut Mature Markets Holdings, Survey Says

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-10-12T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/asia-institutions-to-cut-mature-markets-holdings-survey-says.html
Asian pensions, insurers, central
banks and sovereign wealth funds plan to cut their developed
market investments in favor of regional and alternative assets
in the next year or two to counter market swings and low returns,
said a Fidelity Investments survey.  Thirty-nine percent of such investors in  Asia  outside of
 Japan  expect to increase investments domestically, according to
 Pyramis Global Advisors LLC , a Smithfield, Rhode Island-based
Fidelity unit that manages $176 billion for institutions.  Both those in and outside of Japan plan more allocations to
Asian, emerging markets, international and global equities, and
fixed income, it said in an e-mailed statement today.
Institutions are trying to boost returns as market volatility
surged worldwide amid debt crises in the U.S. and  Europe , and
mixed economic data. U.S. Treasury yields are near1 all-time
lows as investors seek refuge in safer assets.  “The financial crisis of 2008 to 2009, and more recently
the Eurozone sovereign debt issue, has forced institutional
investors to identify better strategies for managing
volatility,” Pyramis Chief Investment Officer Young Chin said
in the statement. “The low return environment is driving more
investors to also look for ways to enhance returns by deploying
timelier, more dynamic asset allocation strategies that can
exploit market dislocations.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX,
jumped to a one-year high of 48 in early August, almost triple
the end-2010 level. The index measures the cost of using options
as insurance against drops in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury sank to 1.6714
percent on Sept. 23, the lowest since at least 1953.  Japan Institutions  Pyramis surveyed 95 institutional investors overseeing $1.1
trillion of assets between them in Japan,  South Korea ,  Taiwan ,
 Hong Kong ,  Singapore  and  China .  Unlike their peers elsewhere in Asia, Japanese institutions
expect to reduce domestic stock allocations, it said.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific ex-Japan Index fell about 18 percent
this year, outpacing the 10 percent decline of the MSCI World
Index. Stocks in Hong Kong and China are valued cheaper than U.S.
peers after the declines, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Alternative Assets  Expansion of investments in frequently traded alternative
assets, such as equity long/short and global macro, and in high-
yield and emerging markets stocks are the top two changes those
institutions are likely to make to boost returns, the survey
found.  Sixty-one percent of Asian institutions outside of Japan
said they are diversifying into alternative assets and 55
percent will use currency hedging to smooth returns, it said.  Investors are speeding up internal decision making and
farming out more assets to outside managers to take advantage of
shifting market conditions, the survey said.  About 33 percent of Japanese institutions and 28 percent of
those elsewhere in the region plan to make their investments
more global 10 years from now, with heavier weightings given to
 fixed-income  and alternative assets, the survey found.  “They’re increasing allocations to strategies such as real
estate and private equity with a view to enhancing returns,”
Chin said. They’re “balancing those investments, which often
require extended time commitments, with more unconstrained
strategies like equity long/short and global macro.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  