-- 
Asian Currencies Weaken, Led by Won, as Europe Debt Woes Deter Risk-Taking

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-10-12T08:56:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/asian-currencies-weaken-led-by-won-as-europe-debt-woes-deter-risk-taking.html
Asian currencies dropped, led by
 Indonesia ’s rupiah and the South Korean won, as concern Europe’s
debt crisis will worsen sapped demand for higher-yielding
assets.  The rupiah fell for a fourth day, the won retreated from a
two-week high and Taiwan’s dollar snapped four days of
appreciation after Slovakia’s parliament failed to ratify
changes to the euro-region’s bailout fund in a vote yesterday.
European officials are striving to meet an end-of-month target
set by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  stave off a default in
Greece and shore up confidence in the euro.  “Concern Europe’s debt crisis will widen to a financial
crisis is making investors risk averse and curbing demand for
Asian assets, weighing on the currencies,” said  Hideki Hayashi ,
a researcher at the Japan Center for Economic Research in Tokyo.
“In addition, under a crisis situation like this, demand for
dollars increases.”  The rupiah dropped 0.3 percent to 8,939 per dollar as of
3:47 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The won slid 0.2 percent to 1,166.85 and Taiwan’s dollar
declined 0.2 percent to NT$30.40.  The won retreated as overseas investors sold more local
shares than they bought today, adding to net sales of about $8
billion in the past three months. The nation’s jobless rate was
3.2 percent in September, compared with a 3.1 percent level the
previous month that was the lowest since July 2008, according to
government data released today.  Rate Cut  “The markets are swinging back and forth in tandem with
progress or setbacks in  Europe ’s plans to stem the crisis,”
said Park Joo Hyung, a Seoul-based currency dealer at Korea
Exchange Bank. “The Slovakia rejection threw cold water on
sentiment again. This, together with importers’ dollar demand,
is driving the won lower.”  The rupiah declined after the central bank unexpectedly cut
its benchmark interest rate yesterday.  Bank Indonesia  lowered
its  reference rate  by 25 basis points to 6.50 percent after
holding it steady for seven months, citing easing inflation. The
currency has slid 1.8 percent this month as foreign funds sold
$55 million more Indonesian shares than they bought through
yesterday, according to exchange data.  “The rupiah is declining because of the rate cut,” said
Bambang Eko Joewono, the Jakarta-based head of the global-
markets division at PT Bank UOB Indonesia. “We have also seen
foreign investors exiting the market.”  U.S. Senate  Bill  China ’s yuan rose, reversing earlier losses, after the U.S.
Senate passed a bill that would allow sanctions on countries
with misaligned exchange rates. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner  said in Washington yesterday in a Bloomberg TV
interview that the nation must move more quickly to allow its
currency to appreciate and he’s “very supportive” of the
objectives of the Senate’s bill. The yuan added 0.3 percent to
6.3585 per dollar in Shanghai.  “The bill is aimed at U.S. election politics,"  Tim Condon ,
Singapore-based head of Asian research at ING Groep NV, wrote in
a note today. "The threat of a trade war will keep it from being
passed.”  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso was little changed at 43.405
per dollar and the Malaysian ringgit gained 0.2 percent to
3.1344. India’s rupee gained 0.5 percent to 49.07 and the  Thai
baht  added 0.3 percent to 30.87.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  