-- 
ASML Says Orders to Increase on More Advanced Machines

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-10-12T15:46:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/asml-forecasts-higher-fourth-quarter-orders-after-profit-beats-estimates.html
ASML Holding NV (ASML) ,  Europe ’s biggest
semiconductor-equipment maker, said fourth-quarter orders will
increase from the previous three months as customers add
capacity and shift to more advanced machines.  Bookings at the Veldhoven, Netherlands-based company will
rise because of continued demand for “leading-edge systems,”
Chief Executive Officer Eric Meurice said in a statement today.
ASML shares climbed 6.3 percent to close at 28.20 euros in
Amsterdam trading, the biggest jump since Aug. 11.  Net bookings excluding second-generation EUV, or extreme
untraviolet, lithography systems reached 514 million euros ($709
million) in the third quarter, beating ASML’s earlier forecast
of not more than 500 million euros. Net income rose 32 percent
from a year earlier to 355 million euros, beating a 323 million-
euro average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The outlook for a sequential increase in orders is
reassuring,” said  Victor Bareno , an Amsterdam-based analyst at
SNS Securities.  Revenue rose 24 percent to 1.46 billion euros.  ‘Mixed Bag’  Next year will be a “mixed bag,” Chief Financial Officer
Peter Wennink said on the company’s website. “Generally we
expect slower growth next year. On the other hand, new
applications like tablets and new smartphones need advanced
semiconductor devices. Those will drive the need for leading-
edge technology.”  The situation differs from that of the banking crisis in
2008 and 2009, Meurice said in a conference call. “We had a
freeze of six months at the time,” he said. “Today we do have
a crisis, but customers do feel they can take the decisions on
investments.”  ASML predicts fourth-quarter revenue will exceed 1.1
billion euros, including delivery of one EUV system for about 40
million euros of sales with a profit margin of zero.  ASML, the maker of machines that produce chips for  Nokia
Oyj (NOK1V) ’s mobile phones and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPads, said it’s
maintaining its forecast for 2011 of revenue of about 5.5
billion euros.  That figure includes EUV systems. ASML expects these
machines, which will help shrink the size of chips while
increasing their capacity and speed, will become “commercially
viable” in the second half of 2012, Meurice said. The company
has had a delay of about six months in developing them as it had
to address issues at the light source, he said.  ASML is the world’s largest maker of machines to project
lines on the silicon slices from which chips are made. Its main
competitor is  Japan ’s  Nikon Corp. (7731)   Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , based
in  Santa Clara , California, is the world’s largest maker of
semiconductor equipment.  ASML shares have declined 2.4 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 12.5 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  