-- 
Australia Home-Loan Approvals Rise as Consumer Sentiment Gains

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-12T02:33:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/australia-home-loan-approvals-rise-for-fifth-month-in-august-1-.html
Australian home-loan approvals rose
in August for a fifth straight month and  consumer confidence 
extended its rebound from a two-year low as the central bank
left interest rates unchanged.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments gained 1.2 percent from July, when they rose a
revised 1.9 percent, the statistics bureau said in a report in
Sydney. Also today, a Westpac Banking Corp. and  Melbourne 
Institute survey of 1,200 consumers taken Oct. 3-8 showed the
consumer sentiment index rose 0.4 percent to 97.2. The gauge had
dropped to 89.6 in August, the lowest since May 2009.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  last week
left the benchmark  interest rate  at 4.75 percent, citing “very
unsettled” global markets and signs of weaker domestic growth.
Stevens, who has kept borrowing costs unchanged for 11 months,
signaled less concern a mining boom will boost wage pressures
and said there’s more scope to cut rates if necessary.  “We’ve had a period of rate reprieve that’s approaching a
year and that’s probably encouraged some people” to borrow,
said  Michael Turner , an economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in
Sydney. “We are in a bit of a holding pattern at the moment.
Confidence has rebounded off some pretty big lows, and I think
people are just waiting for things to become clearer, to see if
the labor market softens further and what happens offshore.”  First-Home Buyers  First-home buyers accounted for 15.3 percent of dwellings
that were financed in August, up from 14.9 percent in July,
today’s report showed. That was the first increase since March.  Australian consumer confidence was little changed in
October as the possibility of lower rates offset global turmoil.  “Financial markets were again unsettled with sharp falls
in both the share market and the Australian dollar,”  Bill Evans , Westpac’s chief economist, said in a statement. “On the
positive side we saw a marked change in the rhetoric of the
Reserve Bank. After discussing the option of raising interest
rates as recently as August the bank reported that it had
adopted an easing bias.”  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, dropped 10 percent last month after reaching a record-
high $1.1081 on July 27, amid speculation Greece will default
and spur a repeat of the 2008 credit freeze that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Currency Reaction  The currency weakened after today’s home loans report,
trading at 99.01 U.S. cents at 1:32 p.m. in Sydney from 99.34
cents before the data and 99.52 cents yesterday in  New York .  The total value of loans rose 1 percent to A$20.8 billion
($20.6 billion) in August, today’s report showed.  The value of lending to owner-occupiers gained 0.6 percent,
it showed. The value of loans to investors who plan to rent or
resell homes advanced 1.8 percent.  A report tomorrow will show Australian employers added
10,000 jobs in September, snapping a two-month drop, according
to economists in a separate Bloomberg News survey. The jobless
rate likely held at 5.3 percent.  An index measuring the weighted average of prices for
established houses in eight major cities declined 0.1 percent in
the second quarter to the lowest level since 2009.  That Aug. 2 government report showed  house prices  fell 1
percent in Perth and dropped 1.6 percent in Darwin from the
previous quarter, while they advanced 0.4 percent in Sydney and
gained 1.1 percent in Canberra. In Melbourne, prices slipped 0.1
percent.  A jump in  home prices  was among the reasons Stevens
increased the benchmark rate by 175 basis points from October
2009 to November last year.  Evans, who in July predicted the RBA would reduce rates at
its December meeting, said while that remains his view, a cut
next month “is quite real.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  