-- 
Australians Fret About Crash With Fortescue Metals Growth Stock

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M e l l o r
-- 
2011-10-12T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/australians-fret-about-crash-amid-fortescue-metals-flight-as-growth-stock.html
Neville Power gazes out the window
of a chartered jet at the rust-red, mineral-rich Australian
Outback.  Power, 53, is the new chief executive officer of  Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , a mining company whose one-time penny stock
has soared almost 1,200-fold in value in nine years as a result
of China’s insatiable hunger for Australian iron ore. While the
world teeters on the brink of financial turmoil, Power talks up
his company’s next miracle, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports
in its November issue.  Fortescue’s share price surge has at various times lifted
the firm into the ranks of the world’s 500 biggest companies --
and among the fastest-growing of this century, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Even though the share price plunged 28 percent this year,
an investment of A$10,000 ($10,318) in Fortescue stock at its
lowest point in November 2002 would be worth nearly A$12 million
today. The 31.5 percent stake of Chairman  Andrew Forrest , who
took control in 2003, is worth A$4.6 billion.  Power says he’s not resting on past successes. He says
Fortescue is spending $8.4 billion to triple production to 155
million tons by 2013.  “When we reach that target, we’ll be as big in iron ore as
BHP is today,” Power says, referring to  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company.  Profits for Miners  Such lofty ambitions are cutting both ways for  Australia ,
if not for Fortescue. The nation of 22.7 million people
sprinkled over a land mass the size of the continental U.S. is
in the grip of its biggest mining boom since a mid-19th-century
gold rush.  While delivering record profits for miners, surging demand
for Australia’s minerals sent the local currency soaring to its
highest level in 30 years. It has also forced the government to
keep the benchmark interest rate at 4.75 percent, the highest in
the developed world.  The combined impact of a rising currency and such high
borrowing costs has crippled manufacturers, retailers and other
nonmining industries. It has also helped to destabilize Prime
Minister Julia Gillard’s 18-month-old government, which clings
to power by a single parliamentary seat.  Even for miners, the boom carries risks because of the
industry’s potentially dangerous overdependence on a single
customer.  Slash  China ’s Growth  According to Australian government statistics, the country
is already the world’s No. 1 exporter of iron ore, coal and
alumina. It ranks second in gold, zinc and lead production;
fourth in nickel and silver; and sixth in copper.  Now, companies such as Rio Tinto Group, BHP and Fortescue
are pouring $174 billion into new projects, according to
government estimates. Some 40 percent of those minerals are sold
to China.  Chinese steelmakers buy more than 95 percent of Fortescue’s
iron ore. A recession in the West could slash China’s growth to
7.3 percent in the first quarter of 2012 from 10.4 percent in
2010, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  Growth may even sink to 5 percent after 2013,  Nouriel
Roubini , chairman of New York-based Roubini Global Economics
LLC, told a conference in  Shanghai  in July.  “If China’s growth falls by half, the price of nonfood
commodities will be seriously affected,” says  Michael Pettis , a
finance professor at Beijing’s Peking University.  ‘Turbo-Charged by Growth’  Gillard rejects such predictions. “We have a resources
sector that is turbo-charged by the growth in the region,” she
said in an interview with Bloomberg News on Sept. 15. “There’s
no advice to me that would cause me concern about Chinese demand
collapsing.”  That sort of bullishness was on ample display down under in
early August when a record 2,400 mining entrepreneurs and their
financial backers flew to the Outback.  Their destination: the Wild West gold-rush-era town of
Kalgoorlie. Their purpose: to party and promote their newest
discoveries at a beer-fueled annual convention called the
 Diggers and Dealers  Forum.  This was no Davos, the buttoned-down thinkathon for
corporate and political elites in the Swiss Alps.  By day, the miners and their bankers convened in a large
tent near Australia’s biggest  gold mine , a 3-kilometer-long
(1.9-mile-long), 1.5-kilometer-wide and 400-meter-deep hole
known as the Super Pit.  Scantily Clad  By night, many of them continued their wheeling and dealing
at honky-tonk watering holes staffed by female bartenders so
scantily clad that they’re known as “skimpies.”  Among those packed 10 deep at the bar amid the fading
grandeur of the  Palace Hotel  one evening in August was David
Flanagan, CEO of  Atlas Iron Ltd. (AGO) , who has increased his
company’s market value by more than 50-fold to A$2.9 billion
during the past five years.  “There are so many amazing deposits out there that the
opportunities are limitless,” Flanagan, 39, says. Nor is he
concerned that Atlas Iron doesn’t have a single customer outside
China. “If China suddenly catches the flu, the whole planet’s
cactus anyway,” he says.  Gina Rinehart skipped the Diggers party but not the
dealing. Rinehart, already one of the world’s richest women with
a fortune of at least $10 billion, has teamed up with Rio Tinto
in the development of the Hope Downs iron ore mine near
Fortescue’s pits and is also developing vast coal deposits in
Queensland state on the other side of the country.  Amid the Bonhomie  On Sept. 16, Rinehart set about making herself another
$1.26 billion when her Hancock Prospecting Ltd agreed to sell a
79 percent stake in two Queensland coal assets to Indian
billionaire G.V. Krishna Reddy’s  GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. (GVKP)   Amid the Diggers and Dealers bonhomie, Todd Buchholz, a
former managing director at Tiger Management LLC hedge fund and
a one-time adviser to U.S. President George H.W. Bush, struck a
note of caution.  “China’s golden moment will eventually fade,” Buchholz
said. “Australia can’t just rely on one narrow part of the world
economy.”  Fortescue’s Forrest and Power were the undisputed stars of
the convention. Having already made his billions, Forrest passed
the CEO baton to Power in July and stepped up to the
chairmanship so he could spend more time on his philanthropic
work.  Forrest will be a hard act to follow. Fortescue’s profit
for the financial year that ended on June 30 jumped 76 percent
to A$1.02 billion as China in 2010 exceeded the average 10
percent growth surge it has maintained for more than three
decades.  Global Markets Plunge  Lately, China’s red-hot economy has been cooling--even
before fears over  Europe ’s debt crisis deepened and global
markets began their plunge in the wake of  Standard & Poor’s 
downgrading the U.S. to an AA+ credit rating.  The slowdown began after Beijing raised  interest rates  and
curbed lending in a bid to lower inflation, which in July hit a
three-year high of 6.5 percent, before easing to 6.2 percent in
August. Partly as a result, global commodities prices slipped 18
percent from April 8 to Oct. 11 after more than doubling in the
previous two years, according to the S&P GSCI Index.  The Australian economy is also not shining on miners such
as Fortescue. Unemployment, while rising slightly as a result of
the troubles of the economy outside of mining, is still just 5.3
percent -- barely half of what it is in the U.S.  Spiraling Costs  While that may sound like good news, there is such a
shortage of skilled labor that average wages in the  mining
industry  have jumped 33 percent in the past five years to
A$2,113 a week.  That’s almost twice as much as miners earn in the U.S.,
according to government statistics in both countries.
The state of the Australian dollar doesn’t help, either.  Mining companies are paid in U.S. dollars by their
customers, yet they have to pay their employees in the local
currency, which soared more than 40 percent in three years to
well above parity with its U.S. counterpart before losing some
of those gains in September. It was trading at just below parity
on Oct 12.  Other costs have spiraled even higher. The giant, 3.5-
meter-diameter tires used on dump trucks that haul iron ore and
coal have tripled in price to $100,000 each -- roughly the price
of a Porsche 911 Carrera S -- on the  spot market , according to
Leighton Holdings Ltd., a contractor for BHP and other mining
companies.  Other Sectors Wilt  In August, Rio Tinto blamed rising costs and currency gains
for a profit that came in below analysts’ estimates despite
climbing 30 percent to $7.6 billion in the first half of 2011.  Now, the mining companies face the prospect of higher
taxes. As other sectors of the economy wilt, Prime Minister
Gillard is planning to introduce an additional 30 percent tax on
iron ore and coal miners’ profits next year and, in a bid to
reduce pollution, charge them $23 a ton on their  carbon
emissions .  Fortescue’s 28 percent share price decline compares with an
11 percent fall in the benchmark index as of Oct. 12. Still,
Power says his faith in Fortescue’s prospects is undiminished.  “All I have to do to allay any concerns is to take another
trip back to China,” Power says. “It is such a tremendous
country, with a great track record of development.”  Power says he’s not reassured simply by China’s soaring
city skylines and massive construction projects that consume the
steel made from Australian iron ore, coal and manganese.  ‘Even More Dependent’  What strikes him more, Power says, is the Chinese
government’s decision to move major steelworks to the coast from
inland. Beijing-based Shougang Group has already shifted
operations, and Baosteel Group Corp. and Wuhan Iron & Steel Co.
plan to follow suit.  “That shows the Chinese intend to become even more
dependent on imported iron ore than on their own domestic
mines,” Power says.  If something does go wrong in China, Fortescue has a
cushion. Power says the company could still be profitable even
if iron ore prices plunge to $70 a ton from the average of $169
that Fortescue obtained last year.  Australia’s biggest money manager is also upbeat on China.
“People say it’s a bit risky to put all your eggs in the China
basket, but China is going to continue to grow,” says  Stephen
Halmarick , who helps manage A$150 billion at Sydney-based
Colonial First State Global Asset Management. “If we don’t sell
to China, someone else will.”  ‘Massive Projects’  Halmarick says there’s no sign that the recent global
turmoil will slow mining investment in Australia. “There are
some massive projects in train in Australia, and they will all
go ahead,” he says.  Some of Australia’s resources have even at least partially
bucked the downward commodities trend. On Sept. 6, gold hit what
was then an all-time high of $1,923.70 per ounce before
declining to $1,674 on Oct 12.  Iron ore, at $164.40 a ton, was still 11 percent higher on
Oct. 11 than a year earlier and supply shortages will likely
support an average price of $181 between 2012 and 2014, Standard
Chartered Plc said in a September report.  That’s a far cry from the A$28 a ton that iron ore was
selling for in November 2002, when shares in a company then
known as Allied Mining & Processing Ltd. were trading at the
equivalent of just 0.004 Australian cents.  Allied owned what turned out to be one highly valuable
asset: rights to mine in the Pilbara, the richest iron ore
region in Australia, where BHP and Rio Tinto had been digging
ore for 40 years.  Two Mining Giants  In April 2003, Forrest took control of Allied, renamed it
Fortescue and began adding adjoining mining leases on flatland
that BHP and Rio Tinto had ignored in favor of the mountains of
ore in the nearby Hamersley Range that had appeared more iron
rich and accessible.  When the two mining giants refused to let the interloper
use their railroad lines, Fortescue raised the money to build
its own -- one capable of carrying the heaviest loads ever
transported by rail.  This year, trains 2.7 kilometers long will carry 55 million
metric tons of ore across 300 kilometers of sun-scorched
wilderness to China-bound ships waiting at Port Hedland.  Now, Forrest and his board have entrusted Power with
overseeing Fortescue’s next great leap forward: the tripling of
production by spending $8.4 billion on the construction of new
mines, more heavy-haul rail tracks and a new port.  Tripled in Value  Power says Fortescue will raise half of the funds through
regular  cash flow  and may partly finance the rest by selling
shares in  Hong Kong  or bonds in the U.S.  Surveying what Fortescue has already achieved from 30,000
feet just days before the Diggers confab, Power says that
Chinese and other foreign investors, rather than investing in
their own mines, should be putting their money into Fortescue
shares.  Some already have. In 2009, Chinese steelmaker Hunan Valin
Iron & Steel Group Co. paid $1.3 billion for a 17 percent stake
in Fortescue -- an investment that had almost tripled in value
when it sold about 1 percent of its holding in July.  Russian billionaire Victor Rashnikov’s Magnitogorsk Iron &
Steel Works bought 5 percent of Fortescue in 2007 for an
undisclosed amount. And in 2006, New York-based investment firm
 Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  paid $400 million for a 10 percent stake
in Fortescue and a 13-year unsecured note that pays a 4 percent
royalty on the revenue from some of its mining operations.  ‘A Delicious Investment’  Leucadia has since recouped almost $1 billion in share
sales and interest and still retains a 5 percent stake valued at
an additional A$733 million. It’s involved in a legal dispute
with Fortescue over what it claims is an attempt by the company
to dilute its royalties by offering other investors similar
notes.  Even so, the New York investors are pleased with the
returns Fortescue has delivered.  “This is, has and will remain a delicious investment,”
Leucadia Chairman Ian Cumming and President Joseph Steinberg
said in April in their annual  letter  to shareholders.  How long it will remain so depends not only on Neville
Power’s ability to triple production of iron ore but also on
China’s appetite for consuming it.  -- With assistance from Elisabeth Behrmann and Angus Whitley in
Sydney, Jason Scott in Perth, Matthew Winkler in Canberra and
Helen Yuan in Shanghai.
Editors: Stryker McGuire, Michael Serrill  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Mellor in Sydney at 
 wmellor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at   lcolby@bloomberg.net  