-- 
Australian Dollar Drops Amid Europe Crisis, China Trade Concern

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-10-12T05:34:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/australian-new-zealand-dollars-drop-amid-europe-concern-equity-declines.html
The Australian dollar fell for a
second day against its U.S. and Japanese counterparts amid
concern  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis will worsen and hamper
global economic growth.  The so-called Aussie dropped against most of its 16 major
peers on speculation trade relations between the U.S. and  China 
may deteriorate after the U.S. Senate passed legislation aimed
at pushing the Asian nation to boost the value of the yuan. New
Zealand’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi, pared losses against the
dollar and yen as a gauge of  house prices  rose to a 22-month
high in September.  “The sentiment is still pretty cautious for the Aussie and
for the kiwi,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at
Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “Global concerns are still there.”  Australia’s dollar fell 0.2 percent to 99.33 U.S. cents as
of 4:23 p.m. in Sydney. It declined 0.1 percent to 76.20 yen.
 New Zealand ’s dollar traded at 78.03 after earlier falling to as
low as 77.43 cents. The currency was little changed at 59.88 yen.  The euro-region crisis “is systemic and must be tackled
decisively,” European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday. “Sovereign stress has moved from
smaller economies to some of the larger countries,” he told
lawmakers in Brussels.  Yuan Valuation  The People’s Bank of China said it firmly opposes U.S.
legislation aimed at pressuring China to appreciate its currency.
The bill will seriously hurt trade relations and hamper the
world economic recovery, the central bank said in a statement on
its website today.  “There are some concerns over the impact of the  U.S.
Senate  passing the China yuan bill,” said Forecast’s Lee.
“This will be a negative for sentiment because China is warning
this issue can trigger some trade wars.”  New Zealand home prices rose in September, with a Real
Estate Institute index rising 1.7 percent from the previous
month to 3,279.2. That’s the highest since November 2009. House
sales rose to 5,235 from 5,192 in August, the Auckland-based
institute said.  Losses in the Aussie were limited as data showed Australian
home-loan approvals rose for a fifth month and before a report
projected to indicate that employers added jobs in September for
the first time since June.  Australian Jobs  “We are expecting a pickup in employment and that could
provide a small boost to the Aussie,” said Joe Heffernan, a
senior economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “In the
shorter term, I see the Australian and New Zealand currencies
supported.”  Australian employers added 10,000 jobs in September, after
cutting 9,700 positions in August, the statistics bureau will
probably say tomorrow, according to the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Strength from the employment report would represent an
extension of the recent trend towards positive surprises from
economic indicators,”  Todd Elmer , head of Group-of-10 currency
strategy for  Asia  excluding  Japan  at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a
research note today. “On a stronger-than-expected outcome, we
see upside” for the Australian dollar.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments gained 1.2 percent in August from July, when they
increased a revised 1.9 percent, the statistics bureau said in
Sydney today.  An index of Australian  consumer confidence  rose 0.4 percent
to 97.2, according to a Westpac Banking Corp. and Melbourne
Institute survey of 1,200 consumers taken Oct. 3-8 and released
today in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  