-- 
Australia Says Budget, Economy May Be Affected by Global Slump

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-12T08:28:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/australia-says-budget-economy-may-be-affected-by-global-slump.html
Australia ’s budget is likely to be
affected by global instability and the resource exports driving
the nation’s economy are vulnerable to a slump in overseas
demand, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  “Despite our fundamental strengths, we know that the
Australian economy and our budget will not remain untouched from
global instability,” Swan said in a statement today. “Coal and
iron ore prices -- the commodity prices most important to the
Australian economy -- are holding up relatively well to date,
but remain vulnerable to any sharp slump in global demand.”  The comments reflect an unresolved European sovereign-debt
crisis, elevated U.S. unemployment and a tumble in shares that’s
wiped more than $6 trillion of stocks worldwide this year. Swan
said  Europe  needs to restore market confidence in its capacity
to meet debt obligations and that the U.S. must make “tough
decisions” on spending and tax measures.  “If the worst fears for Europe are realised this time, the
impacts on our own economy could be just as severe as those in
2008,” Swan said in the statement to parliament in Canberra.
“That’s why international engagement is just as important now as
it was at the height of the global financial crisis.”  Australia’s budget deficit was narrower than forecast in
the year through June as a reduction in spending offset lower-
than-estimated tax revenue. Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has
pledged to return to a surplus in 2013, an election year.  Demand from developing nations such as  China  and India for
iron ore, coal and natural gas is driving the economy.  That has spurred the nation’s currency, which reached
$1.1081 on July 27, the highest since it was freely floated in
1983. It fell about 10 percent last month amid speculation
Greece will default and spark a repeat of the 2008 credit freeze.  Swan urged developing nations to boost domestic drivers of
expansion and move to more flexible exchange rates to help
increase and rebalance global growth.  “I argued this case directly to Chinese leaders on my
recent visit to Southern China, as well as at recent IMF and G20
meetings in  Washington , and I’ll continue to do so at this
week’s G20 meetings in Paris,” he said, referring to the
 International Monetary Fund  and the Group of 20 economies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  