-- 
Bangkok Residents Begin Hoarding Food, Water on Flood Threat

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-10-12T08:28:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/bangkok-residents-hoard-noodles-rice-as-flooding-threatens-thai-capital.html
Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra urged food producers not to raise prices as Bangkok
residents started hoarding rice, instant noodles and bottled
water amid conflicting government warnings about floods
threatening to inundate the capital this week.  Shoppers anticipating floodwaters that have killed at least
281 people north of Bangkok emptied shelves at Tesco Plc and Big
C Supercenter Pcl stores in parts of the city. Authorities can’t
agree on how severe flooding may be, with Defense Minister
Yuthasak Sasiprapa saying “no one can guarantee” the capital
will be spared, while the national flood center said the city
has a 90 percent chance of avoiding widespread damage.  “We can’t rely on the government,” said Siraporn
Nikorata, a 37-year-old nurse who bought 10 bags of rice from a
Tesco Lotus supermarket in Bangkok’s Chaeng Wattana district.
“No one can guarantee what will happen to Bangkok. We have to
take care of ourselves first. I need to protect my family.”  The government is focused on delivering emergency aid to
the millions of people displaced by the floods, and protecting
assets is a secondary goal, Yingluck said.  “The volume of water is substantial today,” she told
reporters in Bangkok. “If we try to block the water, we won’t
have enough people to help save lives.”  Risk Period  Oct. 16 through Oct. 18 is the highest risk period for
Bangkok, with low-lying areas near Suvarnabhumi airport and
communities next to the river and canals the most vulnerable,
the city’s Governor Sukhumbhand Paribatra said this week.
Officials are shoring up flood walls, preparing evacuation plans
and readying medical supplies, he said.  The Thai capital has an official population of 6.3 million,
excluding unregistered workers. The U.S. Department of State
estimates the city’s total population at 9.7 million.  Flood-defense efforts are focused on the Chao Phraya river,
whose banks are lined with hotels including the Peninsula and
the  Shangri-La , as well as the Bank of  Thailand .  Work on a new flood barrier will be completed tomorrow,
“but we still don’t know whether it can prevent flooding in
Bangkok,” Yingluck said today.  Efforts to divert water from the capital may help Bangkok
escape widespread flooding, Wim Rungwattanajinda, a spokesman
for the national flood center, said by phone yesterday.  “There is a 90 percent chance that Bangkok will not be
inundated,” Wim said. “We have monitored water levels around
the clock to assess if the barriers can prevent floods. If they
can’t, we will provide warnings.”  Panic Buying  Thai authorities urged consumers to avoid panic buying,
arguing that shortages at some supermarkets are being caused by
logistics issues and bulk purchases for flood relief rather than
a lack of staple goods.  “We want to ask the public not to panic,”  Permanent
Secretary  for Commerce Yanyong Phuangrach said at a media
briefing today. “Producers will continue to make products, so
there will be enough to meet demand.”  Yingluck asked producers not to raise product prices, and
Yanyong said anyone who did could be fined 140,000 baht ($4,500
and face a jail term of up to 7 years.  “People are suffering,” Yingluck said. “If you raise
product prices, people will try to stockpile more food, which
will create more problems.”  7-Eleven Outlets  Floods have cut road and rail links in some parts of the
country, complicating efforts to transport goods, said Banyat
Kamnoonwat, assistant vice president of  CP All Pcl (CPALL) , which
operates 6,002 7-Eleven outlets in the country.  Necessities including rice, water and instant noodles are
still available, and the company has stored supplies to meet an
expected increase in demand, he said today by phone.  “When consumers see empty shelves, that intensifies
worries and spurs hoarding,” Somchai Pornrattanacharoen,
president of the Wholesale and Retail Association, said
yesterday. “Increased production by some manufacturers isn’t
enough to meet demand, and replenishing stockpiles usually take
one to three days.”  Some residents aren’t waiting to see whether store shelves
will be restocked.  “I need to go to another supermarket because, as you see,
there is not much left here,” said Siraporn, who was shopping
for water, noodles and canned seafood and is considering
evacuating her children and grandmother to the island of Hua Hin
this week. “They should be safe there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  