-- 
Bank Lending Rises for First Time in Two Years on Post-Earthquake Spending

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 
2011-10-12T06:24:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/bank-loans-rise-first-time-in-two-years-on-quake-spending-1-.html
Japan ’s bank loans increased in
September for the first time in almost two years as the
country’s biggest earthquake and tsunami spurred lending for
reconstruction.  Lending by 119 local banks led by  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. (8306) ’s unit rose 0.1 percent to 420 trillion yen ($5.5
trillion) as of Sept. 30 from a year earlier, the  Japanese
Bankers Association  said in a statement today, the first year-
on-year increase in 23 months.  Mitsubishi UFJ Chief Executive Officer  Katsunori Nagayasu 
was among forecasters who predicted a recovery in lending
following the magnitude-9 quake and tsunami on March 11. The
rebound comes as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis raises concerns
of slowing global economic growth and casts doubt on the health
of some financial institutions.  “Regional banks are expanding loans to local
municipalities, which seem to be shifting to bank loans from
bond sales,” Katsuhito Sasajima, a Tokyo-based bank analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said before the release of today’s
statement. “To make this loan recovery sustainable, Japan needs
much stronger lending requirements along with reconstruction
efforts after the quake, and real growth in corporate  capital
spending .”  Major commercial banks such as Mitsubishi UFJ and its rival
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ’s banking unit lent 177.4
trillion yen as of Sept. 30, down 2.1 percent from a year
earlier, the lobby group said. Lending by 63 regional banks
increased 2.1 percent to 158.3 trillion yen, the report shows.  The disaster triggered explosions at  Tokyo  Electric Power
Co.’s nuclear plant in Fukushima, northern Japan, and led to
reactor meltdowns. The country’s worst atomic plant incident
hampered the operations of other reactors nationwide, making it
difficult for utilities to sell bonds and instead prompting them
to rely on loans.  Japan’s top five power companies and nuclear-plant
operators are seeking a record 4 trillion yen in loans this year
in part to finance rising costs for natural gas and coal, the
two main thermal power plant fuels. That amount includes an
emergency loan of about 2 trillion yen to  Tokyo Electric  granted
immediately after the accident.  The  Bank of Japan  will unveil its lending data for
September on Oct. 13. It uses a different method of analysis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 