-- 
Baxter Shares Fall as Insurers Favor Rival’s Blood Products

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-10-12T20:08:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/baxter-shares-fall-as-much-as-5-4-after-ubs-trims-estimates.html
Baxter International Inc. (BAX) , the maker
of blood products and intravenous drugs, declined 3.1 percent 
after an analyst said the company may be hurt by health insurer 
 Aetna Inc. (AET) ’s decision to favor a rival  Grifols SA (GRF)  treatment for immune
system disorders.  Aetna indicated it plans to consider Barcelona-based
Grifols’s Gamunex the “preferred” brand of IVIG, a treatment
for immune system disorders, said Matthew Prior, an analyst for
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  Melbourne . The decision may
limit use of other medications, including Baxter’s Gammagard,
Prior wrote in an Oct. 12 note to investors. Baxter, based in
Deerfield,  Illinois , declined to $54.40 at 4 p.m. New York time.  While details are still unclear, the preferred status for
Gamunex is slated to take hold on Jan. 1, Prior said. Hospitals
might automatically use Gamunex first and patients may have to
pay face higher co-payments if they want an alternative, he
said. The decision follows similar moves by Highmark Inc. and
 Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH) , smaller health insurers, earlier this
year that required patients to use a specific IVIG, he said.  “The ‘preferred’ status could be a softer approach
compared to that of Highmark or Coventry that require you to
‘fail first’,” on the specified product before getting access
to the others, he wrote.  IVIG, also known as intravenous immunoglobulin, is
comprised of antibodies extracted from human blood. It is given
to patients with immune system disorders who don’t make enough
of their own natural defenses to ward off infections.  Aetna, based in Hartford, Connecticut, is the third-largest
U.S. health insurer behind UnitedHealth Group Inc. and WellPoint
Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  