-- 
Berlusconi Will Defend Government in Parliament as Confidence Vote Looms

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-10-13T08:10:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/berlusconi-to-address-parliament-after-stumbling-on-budget-vote.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
will defend his government in Parliament and may seek a
confidence vote after  Italy ’s president called on him to prove
he can still govern after losing a routine legislative vote.  Berlusconi will deliver a speech to the Chamber of Deputies
in Rome at about 11 a.m. The premier may also call a confidence
vote after President Giorgio Napolitano urged him yesterday to
clear up “questions and concerns” about the government’s
parliamentary support after the lower house failed to rubber
stamp the 2010 budget report in the Oct. 11 vote.  The main opposition parties decided last night not to
attend today’s session, leaving Berlusconi to address only his
own supporters. The opposition also vowed to vote against the
government in the confidence vote likely to be held tomorrow.  “The confidence vote could be a significant event,”
 Lavinia Santovetti , an economist at Nomura International in
London, said in an e-mail. “I would not rule out the ability of
the government to, once again, get together and find the numbers
to get through the confidence vote. Berlusconi’s leadership is
clearly weakening, but a muddle-through could continue.”  Fighting Contagion  Berlusconi is scrambling to convince investors that he can
cut  Europe ’s second-biggest debt and reverse surging borrowing
costs that risk making Italy the biggest victim of the euro-area
debt crisis. Italy has been downgraded by the three main rating
companies in the last month even after the government won final
approval for 54 billion euros ($73 billion) in austerity moves
that convinced the  European Central Bank  to buy Italian bonds to
bring down record bond yields.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond rose 4 basis points to
5.782 percent at 10:03 a.m. in Rome, after closing at a three
week-high yesterday. The yield difference with similar maturity
German bunds increased 3 basis points to 358 basis points. That
spread reached a euro-area record 416 basis points on Aug. 5.  The Treasury will auction as much as 6.5 billion euros of
bonds today, following a sale of 9.5 billion euros of Treasury
bills on Oct. 11 at which borrowing costs declined and demand
rose for the nation’s debt.  Bank of Italy  Governor  Mario Draghi , in a speech yesterday,
urged the government to quickly implement the austerity moves.
“If protracted, the high borrowing costs seen in the last three
months could largely offset” the effects of the austerity moves
approved last month, “with a further negative impact on the
cost of debt, in a spiral that may end up being ungovernable,”
Draghi said in  Rome .  Tremonti Absent  The government’s failure to get a majority in the Oct. 11
vote, which ended 290 to 290, meant last year’s budget wasn’t
approved. The tie could have been broken if  Umberto Bossi , whose
 Northern League  is in the ruling coalition, or Finance Minister
 Giulio Tremonti  had been present to vote. Their absence sparked
speculation that parliamentary support for the government may be
unraveling as pressure mounts on Berlusconi from the worsening
debt crisis and four criminal trials that he faces. He denies
any wrongdoing.  Tremonti has already clashed with Berlusconi over issues
including last month’s austerity package and Draghi’s successor
at the central bank. He was “engaged at the Ministry” in a
review of economic policy during the Oct. 11 vote and was
“represented by undersecretaries,” Tremonti said in a
statement. There was “no political reason of any kind” for his
absence from the ballot, he said.  Scajola’s Role  “Tensions within the coalition are escalating,”
Santovetti said. Tremonti and Bossi’s absence from the vote “is
probably a clear indication of this.”  Also absent from the Oct. 11 ballot was former Industry
Minister  Claudio Scajola . He and about 15 allies in Parliament
are considering withdrawing their support for the government,
affaritaliani.it website said yesterday, citing lawmakers close
to the group. Scajola is “ready to bring down the government,”
the website said.  Scajola met with Berlusconi in Rome yesterday and pledged
that he and his backers will support the government should the
premier call a confidence vote, Ansa newswire said yesterday.  While the failed budget vote doesn’t affect this year’s
public finances, “it has symbolic importance as approval is
required” by the constitution, Fabio Fois, a Barclays Capital
economist in  London , said in a note yesterday.  Berlusconi must spell out in his speech today how he
intends to get last year’s budget report approved, Napolitano
said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday. “It will then be
up to the speakers of the two houses” of Parliament to decide
whether the premier’s suggested solution can work, Napolitano
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 asarri@bloomberg.net 
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net .
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  