-- 
Berlusconi to Address Parliament Tomorrow After Vote Defeat

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-10-12T12:46:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/berlusconi-must-show-he-can-still-govern-italian-president-says.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
will defend his government in a speech to Parliament at 11 a.m.
tomorrow and may seek a confidence vote after failing to muster
a majority in a ballot in  Italy ’s lower house.  Chamber of Deputies Speaker Gianfranco Fini made the
announcement in Rome today after President Giorgio Napolitano
called on Berlusconi to demonstrate that he still has sufficient
backing in the legislature to govern. Fini said he will discuss
the matter with Napolitano today.  “Acute tensions in the government and in the ruling
coalition” are sparking “questions and concerns,” Napolitano
said in an e-mailed statement. The government needs to show it
has the support “to carry out essential commitments, such as
budget decisions,” he said.  The government stumbled yesterday in a routine vote to
rubberstamp the 2010 budget, raising doubts about its staying
power. Any confidence vote would come amid efforts by Berlusconi
to convince investors he can cut  Europe ’s second-biggest debt
and reverse surging borrowing costs that risk making Italy the
biggest victim of the region’s debt crisis.  The government’s failure to get a majority in yesterday’s
vote, which ended 290 to 290, meant the budget wasn’t approved.
The tie could have been broken if  Umberto Bossi , whose Northern
League is in the ruling coalition, or Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  had been present at the ballot. Their absence sparked
speculation that parliamentary support for the government may be
unraveling as Italy relies on  European Central Bank  bond-buying
to stem a jump in borrowing costs that’s pushed bond yields to
euro-era records.  Unclear Outcome  “The outcome of a hypothetical no-confidence vote is far
from a foregone conclusion,” Vladimir Pillonca, senior European
economist at Societe Generale SA, wrote in a note to investors.  The premium investors demand to hold Italian 10-year bonds
over German bunds was at 354 basis points at 1:49 a.m. in Milan,
the highest in a week. That compares with a euro-era high of 416
basis points on Aug. 5.  Tremonti has already clashed with Berlusconi over issues
including last month’s 54 billion-euro ($73 billion) austerity
package and  Mario Draghi ’s successor as  Bank of Italy  head. He
was “engaged at the Ministry” in a review of economic policy
during the vote, and was “represented by undersecretaries,”
Tremonti said in an e-mailed statement. There was “no political
reason of any kind” for his absence from the ballot, he said.  First Time  Newspapers including  Il Sole 24 Ore  reported that this was
the first time an Italian government lost a vote on finalizing a
previous year’s budget. While the incident doesn’t affect this
year’s public finances, “it has symbolic importance as approval
is required” by the nation’s constitution, Fabio Fois, a
Barclays Capital economist in  London , said in a note.  Also absent from yesterday’s vote was former Industry
Minister  Claudio Scajola . He and about 15 allies in Parliament
are considering withdrawing their support for the government,
affaritaliani.it website said today, citing lawmakers close to
the group. Scajola is “ready to bring down the government,”
the website said.  While Economy Undersecretary Alberto Giorgetti said the
government will find a “technical solution” to the budget
vote, opposition leaders including Anna Finocchiaro said the
defeat in Parliament required Berlusconi to present his
resignation to Napolitano.  As a result of the failed vote “the very preconditions for
public-finance accounting no longer exist,” Finocchiaro, who
heads the main opposition party in the Senate, said in an e-
mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 asarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 