-- 
RIM in ‘Race Against Clock’ as BlackBerry Disruption Spreads

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g ,   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-10-12T20:07:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/blackberry-maker-rim-still-clearing-data-backlog-vodafone-says.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s BlackBerry
service was disrupted for some users in North America, as a snag
that is halting messaging for a third day across  Europe , the
 Middle East  and Africa spread to its largest market.  Subscribers in the Americas may experience “intermittent
service delays,” RIM  said on its website  today. The company
said it is working to resolve the issue and apologized to users.  RIM, which has built a reputation as a maker of secure and
reliable e-mail devices, is struggling to stem declines in
market share to touch-screen phones such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
that offer more consumer applications. The service disruptions
began in areas that RIM is counting on for sales growth as
revenue in  North America  drops.  “It’s like being disconnected from the world because
people have gotten so addicted to BlackBerry services,” Nilesh Dedhia, managing director of Vidhi Wealth Management in Mumbai,
said in an interview.  The disruptions began in Europe and  Asia  early this week.
BlackBerry users continue to have problems accessing data
services as RIM works to clear the backlog of data, U.K.-based
mobile-phone operator  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  said today.  “The resolution of this service issue is our number one
priority right now and we are working night and day to restore
all BlackBerry services to normal levels,” RIM  said  on its U.K.
website.  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, fell 2.2 percent to $23.88
at the close in  New York . It has lost 59 percent this year.  Data Backlog  RIM routes its traffic through two main centers, in
Waterloo for North America and in Slough, southern England, for
Europe, the Middle East and Africa, said Nick Dillon, an analyst
at research firm Ovum in  London .  That network concentration “has always been a risk to the
service,” Dillon said. BlackBerry “is still the most robust e-
mail system.”  RIM said the delays were caused by a core switch failure
within its infrastructure. While the system is designed to
transfer to a backup switch, that didn’t happen, it said. The
result was a large backlog of data.  The company believes it has identified the root cause of
the problem though will do further tests to make sure, David Yach, RIM’s chief technology officer of software, said today on
a conference call.  The problem is centered on its U.K. hub and service
disruptions in North America were primarily caused by the
backlog, not by technical faults there, Yach said.  Race Against Time  For RIM, facing investor demands for a shakeup in strategy
and calls for new leadership, the interruption comes at an
inopportune time. The company has to fix the problem today to
avoid sacrificing customer data as the backlog grows too great
and alienating clients, said Malik Saadi, an analyst at  Informa
Telecoms & Media  in Guildford, southern  England .  “They cannot afford to have the problem for one more day,
because the data backlog will just be massive,” Saadi said.
“It’s really a race against the clock.”  Yach said the company has no plans to erase data to cut
through the backlog.  Regions outside the RIM’s traditional stronghold of North
America are accounting for an increasing share of its revenue
and new subscribers. As RIM’s U.S. revenue dropped 50 percent
last quarter to $1.11 billion, sales outside the U.S., U.K. and
Canada jumped 38 percent to $2.33 billion.  ‘PR Challenge’  “These outages create another highly visible PR challenge,
coming in markets where the company is still growing,”  Mike Abramsky , an RBC Capital Markets analyst in Toronto, said in a
note to clients. He has a “sector perform” rating on the
stock.  Users in  India , one of RIM’s growth markets, were among
those experiencing disruptions. BlackBerry users in South  Africa 
that use local carrier Vodacom Group Ltd. received a text
message telling them that “BlackBerry services could remain
impaired for the remainder of today.”  Services were also disrupted in  Brazil , Chile and Argentina
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  