-- 
Black Death Bacteria Little Changed While Advances Avert Recurring Plague

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-10-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/black-death-bacteria-little-changed-while-advances-avert-plague.html
The bacteria responsible for the
 Black Death  that killed a third of  Europe ’s population from 1347
to 1351 has changed little since then as health and hygiene
advances held it in check, scientists said.  Researchers extracted DNA from the teeth of four skeletons
exhumed from a cemetery near the Tower of  London  to reconstruct
the Yersinia pestis genome, according to a report yesterday in
the journal Nature. The study determined the germ is still
circulating yet probably didn’t cause earlier plagues in Rome
and  Greece , suggesting the European outbreak was the first to
spread the bacteria worldwide, the researchers said.  “We do not see a single position in the ancient genome
that cannot be found in modern Y. pestis in the same state,”
said researcher Johannes Kraus, a professor in the departments
of archeological sciences and human genetics at the  University
of Tubingen  in Tubingen,  Germany .  Modern antibiotics can effectively kill the ancient
bacteria, said Hendrik Poinar, a researcher at the departments
of ancient DNA, biology and infectious disease at  McMaster
University  in Hamilton, Ontario.  The virulence of the outbreak may have occurred because
there were other infections circulating at the time, there was a
dramatic change in the weather and a less hearty population,
Poinar said yesterday during a televised news conference.
“There is no smoking gun,” he said.  Faster Response  Kraus said later generations also adapted to the outbreak
of the bacteria, helping minimize its deadly effects.  At first, “people basically don’t know what pathogen it
is, what kind of disease it is, they don’t know how to treat it,
they don’t know what to do,” he said. “Later on, people had
developed containment, first aid, how to treat patients with the
symptoms. That could all play a big role to lower virulence at
later outbreaks.”  Researchers used tools and technology recently developed to
study Neanderthals to enrich the material they extracted from
the teeth to ensure they had authentic ancient bacteria. They
analyzed about 99 percent of the genome, Kraus said.  More work is needed to examine small variations to ensure a
different layout wouldn’t make it more deadly, according to the
researchers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  