-- 
Boston Consulting’s Buerkner Says Europe Cleanup to Take Decade

-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   D e i r d r e   B o l t o n
-- 
2011-10-12T03:20:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/boston-consulting-s-buerkner-says-europe-cleanup-to-take-decade.html
Boston Consulting Group Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Hans-Paul Buerkner spoke about the financial
problems facing  Europe , managing the Greek crisis and on
protectionism. He spoke to Bloomberg News in an interview at the
World Knowledge Forum in Seoul.  On how long it will take to fix Europe’s problems:  “We will need another decade to clean up, it’s not just
the toxic assets the European banks acquired from U.S.
institutions.”  “It is also the aftermath of the real estate bubble. In
Europe, it’s the sovereign debt crisis that hit the banks.”  “I think they need to deleverage significantly over the
next years, and it will probably take a decade until we see
balance sheets stable and solid again.”  On what investors should do to manage risk in Europe:  “The key issue is to really understand what the balance
sheet looks like. Then step by step clean it up.”  “If you have exposure to southern European sovereign debt
I think write offs are in place and need to be done.”  On how the Greek crisis should be handled:  “There is still time for orderly defaults. The key part is
to understand that what the implications are. There needs to be
a willingness and actions planned by the Greek government, by
the Greek institutions.”  “There is not just one silver bullet to solve
everything.”  “You need to have a significant haircut, 50, 60 percent at
the minimum. Also, I think you need to make sure, rather than
just throwing good money after bad money, we see major action in
 Greece  and the other European countries to reduce, first, their
budget deficits, and then overall debt levels to decent
levels.”  On regulation, protectionism and balancing budgets:  “There are still many sectors in the European economies
that are highly regulated, where there is very little or no
competition. There are lots of subsidies that can be cut.”  “I think we can balance the budgets over the next several
years by on the one hand, cutting unnecessary expenditure, while
also increasing the collection of taxes, without necessarily
increasing the  tax rate .”  “I am not that pessimistic. I think there is a lot of
rhetoric around protectionism. Overall, I am optimistic that the
countries and governments understand that open markets are key
to really recreating and regenerating growth in the developed
world.”  Editor: Brett Miller  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in  Seoul  at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net 
Deirdre Bolton in New York at 
 dbolton@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  