-- 
BP, Halliburton, Transocean Get U.S. Violation Notices

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-10-12T23:31:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/bp-halliburton-transocean-get-u-s-violation-notices-in-spill.html
BP Plc (BP/) ,  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  and
 Halliburton Co. (HAL)  received environmental and safety violation
notices from the U.S. for the 2010  oil spill  in the Gulf of
Mexico, a step that may lead to fines in the nation’s worst
marine disaster.  U.S. regulators sent notices after the Deepwater Horizon
accident investigation on Sept. 14 found that the companies
violated federal offshore safety standards. The companies have
60 days to appeal before any penalties are imposed,  the Bureau
of Safety and Environmental Enforcement  said today in a
statement.  “To ensure the safe and environmentally responsible
conduct of offshore operations, companies that violate federal
regulations must be held accountable,”  Michael Bromwich ,
director of the safety agency, said in the statement. “The
joint investigation clearly revealed the violation of numerous
federal regulations designed to protect the integrity of
offshore operations.”  BP, owner of the well, was cited for seven violations,
including failing to perform operations in a “safe and
workmanlike manner,” failing to take measures to prevent
pollution of offshore waters, failing to keep the well under
control and not properly cementing the well.  Maintenance Failure  Transocean, owner of the rig that was drilling the Macondo
well, was cited with four violations, including failing to
maintain the rig’s blowout preventer, a stack of valves designed
to shut an out-of-control well. Halliburton, which provided
cement that was being prepared to seal the well, also received
four violation notices, including a citation for not properly
cementing the well.  The notice “makes clear that contractors, like operators,
are responsible for properly conducting their deepwater drilling
activities,” London-based BP said in an e-mailed statement.  BP said it is strengthening its oversight of contractors
and putting new safety standards in place that exceed current
regulatory requirements in the  Gulf of Mexico . The Macondo spill
occurred after an explosion at the well on April 20, 2010.  Transocean has received the notice and plans to appeal its
citations, Lou Colasuonno, a spokesman for the Vernier,
Switzerland-based company, said in an e-mailed statement.  Halliburton “believes it is fully indemnified by BP
against any loss resulting from the Macondo incident and any
penalties arising from the violations alleged” by the Bureau of
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Tara Mullee Agard, a
spokeswoman for Halliburton, said in an e-mailed statement. The
Houston-based company is reserving its right to appeal, Agard
said.  A report issued last month by a joint U.S. Interior
Department-Coast Guard panel held BP “ultimately responsible”
for ensuring the safety of crew members and the environment
while Transocean and Halliburton shared some of the blame for
the catastrophe that killed 11 workers and spilled almost 5
million barrels of oil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ; 