-- 
BP Says TNK-BP Minority Investor May Lose Case Against Directors

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-10-12T12:18:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/bp-says-tnk-bp-minority-investor-may-lose-case-against-directors.html
BP Plc (BP/)  said a Siberian court will
probably throw out an 87 billion-ruble ($2.8 billion) claim
brought by a shareholder in OAO TNK-BP Holding, part of its
Russian oil venture, after he failed to garner investor support.  A Tyumen court today rejected minority shareholder Andrey
Prokhorov’s request to extend a deadline for shareholders in the
TNK-BP traded unit to join his claims, the U.K. explorer and
lawyers for the minority shareholder said in separate e-mailed
statements.  The investor has claimed in two suits that the collapse of
BP’s alliance with state-run OAO Rosneft deprived TNK-BP of
potential profit. Prokhorov last month called for investors to
join a class action suit against two BP directors on the  TNK-BP
Holding (TNBP)  board.  No other shareholders joined the initial claim, BP said.
Prokhorov, who owns 0.0000106 percent of TNK-BP Holding, failed
to clear a 1 percent ownership threshold needed to sue board
directors, according to the U.K. explorer. Dmitry Chepurenko,
Prokhorov’s lawyer, said the percentage of those willing to join
can’t be determined at the moment.  BP won an appeal on Oct. 10 against an earlier decision by
the Tyumen court that had allowed a two-day document search at
its Moscow offices, which disrupted normal operations.  ‘Legally Absurd’  BP, which owns the TNK-BP venture equally with a group of
Russian billionaires, has called the claims “legally absurd.”
BP’s directors on TNK-BP’s board voted down a proposal to have
the third-biggest Russian oil producer replace BP in a planned
share swap and Arctic exploration alliance with Rosneft, the
venture said March 12. Rosneft had said it didn’t want TNK-BP as
a partner.  The court today also rejected Prokhorov’s application to
conduct hearings behind closed doors, BP said. The case is
scheduled for Nov. 10, both parties said.  The court will hear Prokhorov’s other suit for 154 billion
rubles against BP and BP Russian Investments Ltd. tomorrow.  Prokhorov’s lawyers have said the damages represent the
increase in the price of the Rosneft stake that BP had planned
to acquire in a share swap and the estimated lost profit from
potential projects.  BP and Rosneft’s planned alliance collapsed after a
challenge from the U.K. producer’s billionaire partners in TNK-
BP, who said the venture had the right of first refusal to
pursue the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  