-- 
Brazilian Homebuilder PDG Heads to One-Month High in New York

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-10-12T16:38:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/brazilian-homebuilder-pdg-heads-to-one-month-high-in-new-york.html
PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos &
Participacoes,  Brazil ’s biggest homebuilder by revenue, headed
to its highest price in almost a month in New York as the
European Union laid out plans to recapitalize banks, fueling
gains for stocks with low valuations.  PDG’S American depository receipts jumped 11 percent to
$7.94 at 12:29 p.m. New York time, the highest since Sept. 15.
Brazil’s stock market was closed for a holiday.  Rio de Janeiro-based PDG trades in  Sao Paulo  at 6.9 times
analysts’ earnings estimates. Its ratio was as low as 6 on Oct.
3, after dropping from this year’s high of 16.5 in January. The
benchmark Bovespa index trades at 9.4 times earnings estimates,
down from a January high of 12.2.  “PDG has been a beaten down stock, even though its
fundamental story has been quite good,” said Greg Lesko, who
helps oversee over $800 million at Deltec Asset Management in
 New York . “If the world is short of capital and freaking out,
then these stocks go down quite a bit. But if those concerns are
being alleviated, you get the opposite reaction.”  Global stocks rose as European Commission President  Jose Barroso  called for a reinforcement of crisis-hit banks, the
payout of a sixth loan to  Greece  and a faster start for a
permanent rescue fund to master Europe’s debt woes. Barroso
urged a “coordinated approach” to deliver a “significantly
higher capital ratio of highest quality capital” for banks,
while offering government funds only as a last resort.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.4 percent to
1,212.42, its highest intraday level since Sept. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  