-- 
Buffett Refuses Congressional Republican’s Offer for Swap of Tax Returns

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-10-12T19:16:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/buffett-refuses-congressional-republican-s-offer-for-swap-of-tax-returns.html
Warren Buffett , who is pushing for
higher taxes on the wealthy, refused the request of a Republican
congressman to swap tax returns and reiterated his pledge to
publish the form if other billionaires would do the same.  “If you could get other ultra-rich Americans to publish
their returns along with mine, that would be very useful to the
tax dialogue and intelligent reform,” Buffett said in a letter
yesterday to Rep. Tim Huelskamp of   Kansas . “I stand ready and
willing -- indeed eager -- to participate,” he said in the
letter, which was e-mailed to Bloomberg today by an assistant.  Buffett, 81, has drawn criticism from Republicans since
teaming with President Barack Obama this year to push tax
increases. The chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has said his
 tax rate  is the lowest of the people who work in his office.
Huelskamp, who offered his return in exchange for Buffett’s in
an Oct. 5 letter, wouldn’t advance the tax-policy discussion by
releasing his form, the billionaire said.  “Unfortunately, publishing your  tax return  or that of
other members of Congress would cast no new light on my claim
that the ultra-rich in many cases are paying less in total taxes
-- income and payroll taxes paid by them or on their behalf --
to the federal government than many of the middle class,”
Buffett said in the letter. “Thanks for your letter. I’m glad
you are looking into tax inequities.”  Huelskamp’s letter was forwarded to Bloomberg by Buffett’s
assistant,  Debbie Bosanek . CNNMoney reported on the letters
earlier.  Buffett said in the letter he had adjusted gross income of
$62.9 million last year. He told  Charlie Rose  in an Aug. 16
interview that the figure was “about $62 million.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  