-- 
German Bunds Decline for Sixth Day on Europe Optimism; Italian Bonds Drop

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-10-12T15:35:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/bunds-halt-5-day-drop-as-slovakia-rejects-europe-s-bailout-fund.html
German 10-year bunds fell for a
sixth day as stock gains and optimism European leaders are
moving closer to resolving the sovereign debt crisis sapped
demand for the region’s safest securities.  Thirty-year German yields climbed to the highest level in
five weeks as an auction of the securities failed to attract
enough bidders to reach the maximum target. Italian bonds led
losses among the securities of the region’s high-deficit nations
as the government prepares to sell up to 6.5 billion euros
($8.97 billion) of debt tomorrow. A measure of dollar funding
costs for European banks dropped.  “The market at the moment is thinking that the solution of
the debt crisis is going in the right direction and in that case
there’s not much value” in longer-maturity German bonds, said
Annalisa Piazza, an economist at Newedge Strategy in  London .  The 10-year bund yield rose 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 2.19 percent at 4:32 p.m. London time. The
2.25 percent bond due September 2021 slid 0.930, or 9.30 euros
per 1,000-euro face amount, to 101.495. Thirty-year rates
climbed 13 basis points to 2.94 percent, after reaching 2.95
percent, the highest since Sept. 2.  The European Union’s Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said progress is being made toward a
consensus on resolving the debt crisis. European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  called for a reinforcement of crisis-hit
banks, the payout of a sixth loan to  Greece  and a faster start
for a permanent rescue fund.  Slovak Agreement  Slovak parties have agreed to approve  Europe ’s enhanced
bailout fund, paving the way for a second vote in coming days,
opposition leader  Robert Fico  told reporters today. Slovakia is
the only nation yet to pass the measures.  Treasury 10-year yields rose seven basis points to 2.22
percent, the Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 1.5 percent and the
euro strengthened 1.2 percent to $1.3803.  Germany ’s 30-year auction drew bids for 1.78 billion euros,
less than the maximum sales target of 2 billion euros, the
Bundesbank said. The average yield was 2.82 percent, versus 3.43
percent at the previous sale of the bonds on July 20.  The one-year cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks pay
to convert euro payments into dollars, fell to 63 basis points
below the euro interbank offered rate from 68 yesterday after
six banks sought three-month dollar loans from the  European
Central Bank  in a tender. That’s the narrowest since Sept. 16.  Italian Bonds  Italian 10-year bonds dropped for a fourth day, with the
yield climbing 11 basis points to 5.74 percent, the highest
since Sept. 22.  The nation will sell debt maturing between 2016 and 2025
tomorrow. Yields on the March 2025 bonds climbed three basis
points to 6.31 percent, matching a record, based on closing-
market rates, amid speculation the securities aren’t covered by
ECB asset purchases.  “We have Italian supply tomorrow and there is a bond that
is outside the ECB’s bond-buying program and so there’s some
anxiety about how that’s going to go,” said  Peter Schaffrik ,
head of European interest-rate strategy at Royal Bank of
Canada’s  RBC Capital Markets  in London.  The ECB doesn’t disclose which bonds it is buying under its
asset-purchase program. The central bank said Oct. 10 it settled
2.3 billion euros of debt purchases in the week through Oct. 7,
down from 3.8 billion euros in the previous week. It has spent
90 billion euros on euro-region bonds since reactivating the
plan, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields Widen  The spread between yields on Italian bonds due in 2025 and
2021 has widened by 54 basis points since the ECB reactivated
its plan. It was 60 basis points today, compared with an average
of 32 basis points over the past six months.  Spanish bonds dropped amid concern banks will need
additional government financing.  Spain ’s 10-year bond yields
climbed nine basis points to 5.12 percent.  “The market will be looking at the progress made on bank
recapitalization,” said Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income
strategist at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “The idea is
that banks needing capital should go to the market first and if
that doesn’t work then they will ask their governments for
capital. That’s where there is a feedback loop for the European
debt crisis.”  Banks may be forced by the European Banking Authority to
raise their core tier-one capital ratios to 9 percent, the
Financial Times reported, citing senior regulators. The EBA
asked lenders for more information on sovereign-debt holdings as
part of its review of financial industry capital levels, four
people familiar with the situation said yesterday.  Belgian 10-year rates rose six basis points to 4.23 percent
after reaching 4.25 percent, the most since Aug. 9.  German bonds have handed investors a 1.1 percent loss this
month, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, trimming
year-to-date returns to 6.6 percent. Spanish bonds have handed
investors 5.6 percent this year, and Italian debt made a loss of
2.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  