-- 
Burberry Beats Estimates and Plans Expansion

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-10-12T09:36:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/burberry-beats-estimates-with-21-sales-rise.html
Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s
largest luxury-goods maker, reported fiscal second-quarter sales
that beat analysts’ estimates and dispelled concern over slowing
demand with plans to add 15 percent to its average retail space.  Revenue in the three months ended Sept. 30 rose to 463
million pounds ($722 million) from 382 million pounds a year
earlier, the London-based company said today. The average of 11
estimates compiled by Bloomberg was 447.8 million pounds.  Burberry said it plans to open as many as 10 stores in the
second half of the fiscal year, including outlets in  China ,
 Latin America  and Paris. Concern that economic growth in China,
the industry’s fastest-expanding market, may be stagnating has
led to declines in European luxury-goods stocks since July.
Burberry’s first-half sales in Asia-Pacific rose 52 percent.  The “extremely strong” revenue growth “confirms more or
less what other companies have been saying: There are no signs
of slowing demand,” said Davide Luigi Vimercati, an analyst at
Unicredit in Milan. “The read across for the sector is
positive,” said Vimercati, who advises buying Burberry shares.  Burberry rose as much as 59 pence, or 4.7 percent, to 1,323
pence in  London  trading, and was at 1,301 pence at 10:28 a.m.,
gaining for a seventh day. The shares have fallen 9.5 percent in
the last three months, giving the maker of 3,995-pound cashmere
and wool trench coats a market value of 5.7 billion pounds.  New Stores  Retailing revenue at the 155-year-old British company rose
44 percent in the quarter, boosted by last year’s acquisition of
its operations in China and sales of outerwear and large
leather-goods. Comparable stores sales climbed 16 percent, with
the strongest growth in so-called flagship markets including  New
York ,  San Francisco , London, Paris,  Hong Kong , Tapei and Dubai.  Wholesaling revenue climbed 10 percent. Excluding China,
third-party sales climbed 20 percent on an underlying basis in
the first half, beating the company’s July forecast of a “high-
teen” percentage gain. Licensing revenue advanced 12 percent.  Burberry sees no sign of a slowdown in any of its markets,
Chief Financial Officer Stacey Cartwright said today on a call
with journalists. Even so, the company, which is better
positioned for a slowdown than it was in 2008, is preparing
contingency plans should demand weaken, she said.  A shift from wholesaling toward retail will continue in the
second half with the conversion of five Saudi Arabian stores and
Spanish men’s wear moving to a concession model, Burberry said.
Against a period of tougher comparatives, the luxury-goods maker
said it expects wholesale revenue to increase by a mid single-
digit percentage at constant exchange rates in the second half.  Margin Outlook  Reported licensing revenue is still expected to increase by
about 10 percent in the full year, Burberry said.  Burberry confirmed it expects a “modest” increase in
full-year profit margins as it boosts  capital spending  to as
much as 200 million pounds. The company, whose “Beads, Weaves,
Parkas and Prints” spring-summer 2012 fashion show in London
featured sheath-knit skirts and woven-wedge sandals, is
investing in new technology and stores as demand grows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 