-- 
Cain’s ‘9-9-9’ Tax Plan in Debate Spotlight as Perry Recedes

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-10-12T16:59:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/cain-9-9-9-tax-plan-captures-debate-spotlight-as-perry-candidacy-recedes.html
Herman Cain  defended his “9-9-9”
tax plan against criticism from rivals seeking to halt his
momentum at a Republican presidential debate last night that
showcased Mitt Romney’s status as front-runner.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry , in need of a strong performance
to recharge his bid, rarely challenged Romney, using his time on
the Dartmouth College stage to promote an energy-related job
creation plan he said he would unveil later this week.  With fewer than 100 days until New Hampshire is expected to
hold its primary, the eight presidential contenders focused on
jobs and the economy at the event sponsored by Bloomberg News,
The Washington Post and WBIN-TV, a Derry, New Hampshire,
station.  The gathering unfolded as Romney, who is making his second
presidential bid, seeks to bolster his status as front-runner
and Cain and Perry, among others, vie to emerge as a fiscally
and socially conservative alternative to the former
Massachusetts governor’s candidacy.  “The Cain bubble is going to continue to grow for a
while,” said Fergus Cullen, a former chairman of the  New
Hampshire  Republican Party, who also credited Romney with a
“strong performance” in the debate.  Perry, Cullen added, “didn’t implode, but did he do
enough? I don’t think so. He no longer looks like Superman, like
he did two months ago” when he entered the race and for a few
weeks led in the polls.  Cain said his plan to scrap the tax code and replace it
with 9 percent individual, corporate and sales taxes is superior
to his rivals’ because it’s simple.  ‘9-9-9’ Defense  “9-9-9 will pass,” the former Godfather’s Pizza chief
executive said, “because it has been well-studied and well-
developed. It starts with -- unlike your proposals -- throwing
out the current  tax code . Continuing to pivot off the current
tax code is not going to boost this economy.”  Other Republican candidates criticized or ridiculed the
idea. “I thought it was the price of a pizza when I first heard
it,” former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. said.  Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann  hinted at
something more sinister: “When you take the 9-9-9 plan and turn
it upside down, I think the devil is in the details,” she said.  The number 666 is associated by some Christians with the
devil.  Too Simple  Romney said the proposal was too simple to solve the
nation’s economic problems. “To get this economy restructured
fundamentally, to put America on a path to be the most
competitive place in the world to create jobs, is going to take
someone who knows how to do it,” said Romney, who has proposed
a 59-point economic plan. “And it is not one or two things.”  Cain, addressing the New Hampshire House of Representatives
in Concord today, said the harsh questioning on his tax plan was
a sign his candidacy was surging.  “It attracted a lot of attention at the debate,” Cain
said of the idea. “You know you must be doing something right
when you get a lot of arrows in your back, but this is the first
time that arrows have felt really, really good.”  Appeal for Supporters  Cain, who was announcing endorsements from a handful of New
Hampshire legislators this afternoon, asked those not backing
Romney to get behind him, “and for those of you who do support
him, I’m asking you to reconsider.”  Appearing on ABC’s “Good Morning America” earlier today,
he deflected criticism that the 9-9-9 plan would hurt poor
people the most while slashing taxes for the wealthy.  “You have to take the three together,” he said.
“Together, you broaden the tax base and together you lower the
net-net taxes for everybody.” He said he wouldn’t revise the
plan because of criticism from independent analysts, who he said
used different assumptions about the economy than he does.  Today one of his advisers, Rich Lowrie, provided Bloomberg
News with an analysis showing the 9-9-9 plan would have
generated about $2.3 trillion in revenue in 2008, on par with
the amount the federal government collected that year.  Last night’s debate -- conducted around a large table where
candidates sat and fielded questions from journalists as well as
each other -- unfolded as unemployment sits at 9.1 percent,
standards of living are falling, and the Occupy Wall Street
protests have spread from  Lower Manhattan , giving voice to
mounting public frustration with economic inequality.  ‘Job Killer’  Asked about how he would address wealth disparities, Perry
attacked Obama.  “The reason we have that many people living in poverty is
because we have a president of the  United States  who’s a job
killer,” Perry said. “You have a president that does not
understand how to create wealth.”  Perry, who is scheduled to give a speech on the economy and
energy in Pittsburgh on Oct. 14, said he wanted to open up the
nation’s “treasure trove” of energy resources to invigorate
the economy. “That’s the real key,” he said.  Romney kept his focus on Obama, shrugging off criticism
from his competitors while portraying the president as
incompetent.  “What’s happened in this country under the Obama
administration is that you have a president who I think is well-
meaning, but just over his head when it comes to the economy,”
Romney said.  Christie Endorsement  Romney entered the debate with a new advantage. Earlier in
the day,  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie , whom some
Republicans had urged to enter the presidential race, endorsed
his candidacy.  Christie, who last week announced to reporters in New
Jersey that he wouldn’t run, joined Romney in Lebanon, New
Hampshire, for a joint news conference. “I have no question in
my mind that Governor Romney is our party’s and our country’s
best opportunity to defeat President Obama,” Christie said.  Bachmann, a favorite of the anti-tax Tea Party who has seen
her support drop following Perry’s entrance into the race,
during the debate placed responsibility for the financial
meltdown on the government, rather than on the private sector.  “If you look at the problem with the economic meltdown,
you can trace it right back to the federal government,” she
said, arguing that low  interest rates  and laws encouraging
weaker lending standards to allow more middle-class people to
purchase homes were to blame. “There’s a real problem, and it
began with the federal government.”  Bank Bailout  Romney offered tepid support for the financial rescue
package passed in 2008 with backing from both parties. He
criticized its implementation, and left open the possibility he
might support another one.  “My experience tells me that we were on the precipice, and
we could have had a complete meltdown of our entire financial
system, wiping out all the savings of the American people. So
action had to be taken,” Romney said. “Was it perfect?  No.
Was it well implemented? No, not particularly.”  Cain, whose standing jumped in public opinion polls after
his victory in a non-binding straw poll in  Florida  on Sept. 24,
drew criticism from U.S. Representative Ron Paul of  Texas , who
long has advocated abolishing the  Federal Reserve . Paul said
Cain, a former board member of the Federal Reserve Bank in
Kansas City,  Missouri , had resisted efforts to audit the central
bank.  Greenspan Criticized  When Cain named former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  as a model for the type of chairman he would appoint,
Paul retorted that Greenspan was a “disaster” who set the
country on course for recession. “Alan Greenspan has ushered in
the biggest bubble,” he said. “And what did we do? We’ve
continued the same thing.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  was also under attack in the
debate. Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich of  Georgia  won
applause when he called for Bernanke’s removal.  “Bernanke has in secret spent hundreds of billions of
dollars bailing out one group and not bailing out another
group,” Gingrich said. “It is wrong and it is corrupt for one
man to have that kind of power.”  Romney said that as president he would pick a new Fed
chairman, though he declined to indicate whom he might choose.  Huntsman, Obama’s former envoy to  China , challenged Romney
over how to handle the Asian economic giant, saying Romney’s
plan to sanction China for currency manipulation would prompt
retaliation that would harm the  U.S. economy .  Trade War  “I don’t want to find ourselves in a trade war,” Huntsman
said. “We have to find common ground.”  Romney responded: “If you are not willing to stand up to
China, you will get run over by China.”  Rick Santorum, a former senator from  Pennsylvania , said he
wanted to increase American economic competitiveness by
challenging China. “I want to go to war with China and make
America the most attractive place in the world to do business,”
he said.  Perry was asked whether he would follow the model of
President Ronald Reagan and agree to tax increases as part of
spending cuts. “I don’t think he ever saw those reductions,”
Perry said, calling for a balanced budget amendment.  “One of the reasons that I think Americans are so
untrustworthy of what’s going on is because they never see a cut
in spending,” Perry said.  A pre-debate national poll of Republicans and Republican-
leaning independents by Bloomberg News and The Washington Post
showed Romney leading with 24 percent, followed by Cain at 16
percent and Perry at 13 percent.  Rounding out the field, 6 percent backed Paul, 4 percent
were for Bachmann, 3 percent supported Gingrich, 1 percent
picked Santorum and fewer than 1 percent preferred Huntsman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  