-- 
California Kids Face Days Without Class as Revenue Trails

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-10-12T17:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/california-kids-face-days-without-class-as-revenue-falls-short.html
Public schools in  California , which
already spend less per student than those in 28 states, are
bracing for a $1.7 billion cut that may wipe out high-school
sports and student busing, and trim the academic calendar by
seven days next year.  Automatic cuts built into this year’s budget, intended to
protect bondholders if revenue falls short of projections, are
drawing new attention after California fell $705 million behind
estimates in the first quarter.  A shortfall of $1 billion will slash hundreds of millions
of dollars from universities and care of the elderly and
disabled. A deficit of $2 billion will trigger reductions to
public schools, creating “a fiscal emergency” that could leave
some districts insolvent, a group of superintendents told
Governor  Jerry Brown  in a Sept. 15 letter.  “We’re certainly really, really close to the first round
of trigger cuts and inching closer to ours,” said Debra Brown,
lobbyist for the  California School Boards Association , referring
to the second round of cuts concentrated on schools. “It is a
little troubling.”  California  earmarked  $64.1 billion for kindergarten through
12th grade in the current budget. The cuts would remove $1.5
billion, the equivalent of seven school days, and a $248 million
subsidy for bus service.  Union Reaction  School officials say districts can’t shorten the academic
year without agreements with unions, which means reopening
contracts. The state budget also bars schools from dismissing
teachers.  Dean Vogel , president of the 325,000-member California
Teachers Association, the state’s largest teacher union, said he
expects local affiliates to be flexible. Districts shouldn’t
have the power to impose terms, such as shortening the school
year, he said.  “We have a vehicle for solving these kinds of differences
locally,” Vogel said by telephone. “That vehicle is collective
bargaining.”  State officials wouldn’t dictate specific cuts to local
districts, said Carol Bingham, a senior fiscal policy adviser at
the Education Department. The state would give districts the
option of reducing the school year by as many as seven days from
the current 175, she said.  Shorter School Years  Each day of school forfeited would save about $215 million,
said H.D. Palmer, a Finance Department spokesman.  “The reason we have said up to seven days is it is the
least amount of steps to achieve the greatest amount of
savings,” Palmer said in a telephone interview.  The San Diego Unified School District, California’s second-
largest with 130,000 students, already shortened its school year
to 175 days from 180 two years ago because of budget cuts, said
Linda Zintz, a spokeswoman said.  District officials would probably look at eliminating high-
school sports and other extracurricular programs before cutting
the school year again, she said by telephone.  “That is not a viable solution for us,” Zintz said.
“That’s taking away from kids.”  California spent $9,657 per student on kindergarten-
through-12th-grade education in 2008-09, the latest data
available, according to a U.S. Census Bureau  report . The
national average that year was $10,499.  Dropout Rate  The Golden State’s high-school dropout rate of 5 percent
 exceeded  the national average of 4.1 percent in 2007-2008,
according to the U.S. Education Department.  Rather than make further cuts to public education,
California lawmakers should revisit the automatic cuts to spare
schools while further reducing social programs and
“bureaucracy,” said Assemblywoman Kristin Olsen, a Republican
from Modesto.  “Before the trigger cuts are put into effect -- and
clearly that seems like where we’re heading -- we need to come
back to Sacramento to discuss everything,” Olsen said in a
telephone interview. “Our resources need to go to education and
public safety the most.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in  Sacramento  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  