-- 
Canadian Stock-Bond Gap Signals Equity Rally, National Bank Says

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-10-12T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/canadian-stock-bond-gap-signals-equity-rally-national-bank-says.html
Canada’s main stock index may rise
9.5 percent within six months,  National Bank of Canada (NA)  said,
citing a gap between stock and bond yields that suggests
investors overreacted to the risk of a U.S. recession.  The gap between the earnings yield of Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index stocks and the yield of Canadian corporate bonds
has widened to levels seen only once since 1988, during the
2007-09 U.S. recession, said Marco Lettieri, an economist at the
Montreal-based lender. Since the U.S. economy is still growing,
the yield gap should be half the size, which would require stock
prices to rally.  “The common shareholder is probably the most-exposed to
the financial risks in the market,” Lettieri, who wrote a note
to clients on the topic last week, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “There’s probably a desire to reduce risk from
people’s portfolios, and that means you would reduce your
position in equity markets. However, if a recession is averted,
these valuations do give investors an attractive entry point.”  The S&P/TSX sank 17 percent from April 5 through yesterday
as global equity markets plunged on concern that the European
debt crisis will send the world economy back into recession.
 Canada ’s benchmark stock index fell to the lowest relative to
earnings since July 2009 on Oct. 4.  The gap between the S&P/TSX’s earnings yield, or earnings
divided by price, and the yield of the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Canadian Corporate Index of bonds climbed to 3.56
percentage points last week, the widest since March 2009,
according to Bloomberg data. The historically low bond yields
eliminate an alternative to investing in stocks, Lettieri said.  Growth Scenario  If the U.S. avoids a recession, the S&P/TSX probably would
rise to 13,000 in three to six months, he said. The index gained
2.5 percent to 11,875.55 yesterday.  National Bank, Canada’s sixth-largest lender, forecasts a
35 percent to 40 percent chance of a U.S. contraction over the
next 12 months. Efforts by European politicians to reduce
uncertainty by addressing their debt and banking crises are the
best bet to head off a global recession that would drag the U.S.
down with it, Lettieri said.  The  U.S. economy  is the most-important factor for the
S&P/TSX because of Canada’s dependence on exports to the U.S.
and the weighting of resources companies in the index, he said.
The U.S. accounted for  75 percent  of Canada’s exports last year,
according to  Statistics Canada . Energy and raw-materials
companies make up 47 percent of the country’s stocks by market
value, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff at 
 Mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 Nbaker7@bloomberg.net  