-- 
Canada’s Dollar Gains Most in Two Months on Added Demand for Risk Assets

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-10-12T21:25:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/canada-s-dollar-gains-most-in-two-months-on-added-demand-for-risk-assets.html
Canada ’s dollar gained the most in
more than two months versus its U.S. counterpart as optimism
that European officials will agree a plan to recapitalize the
region’s banks sparked advances in higher-yielding assets.  The currency strengthened along with commodity-linked peers
the Australian and New Zealand dollars as crude oil futures
topped $86 a barrel and stock markets in  Europe  and  North
America  rose. The greenback and yen were among the worst
performing of the 16 most-traded currencies against the Canadian
dollar.  “The Canadian dollar is really a risk trade, and the fact
we had a really nice improvement in risk appetite has proven to
be a huge boost,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency
research at online trading firm GFT Forex in  New York . “We also
had some good housing market data. People are looking at this
and at the increasing likelihood of a larger bailout plan for
Europe, and all of that is helping the Canadian dollar.”  The Canadian currency advanced 1.2 percent to C$1.0172 per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, the biggest increase since
Aug. 9. One Canadian dollar buys 98.31 U.S. cents.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1 percent in New
York as benchmark gauges in France, Germany and  Italy  surged
more than 2 percent. Canada’s benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index climbed 1.3 percent.  Bonds Fall  Government bonds  dropped, pushing the 10-year yield higher
by six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.35 percent,
the sixth straight increase. Ten-year yields reached a record
low 1.994 percent on Oct. 4. They trade at 14 basis points above
U.S. 10-year yields, compared with 31 basis points on Oct. 3.  Canada auctioned C$3.5 billion ($3.45 billion) of five-year
notes today, drawing an average yield of 1.729 percent. The
government received bids of C$8.1 billion for the 1.5 percent
notes due in March 2017, according to a statement from the
central bank.  The nation’s budget deficit was C$33.4 billion in the year
that ended March 31, the finance department’s annual report
said. The figure was C$2.8 billion less than Finance Minister
 Jim Flaherty  predicted in a June budget, the report said. That
was because revenue was higher than expected while spending was
lower.  Flaherty Stance  Flaherty said he may increase stimulus if the global
recovery falters.  “We will continue to carefully monitor the economy and will
remain flexible and pragmatic in responding to any material
deterioration in global economic conditions,” Flaherty said in
a summary of the annual report posted on the department’s
website. “We are exercising fiscal responsibility and we are
urging other countries around the world to demonstrate the same
discipline.”  Canada’s new-home price index rose for a fifth month in
August led by a gain in Toronto, the government statistics
agency said. The index advanced 0.1 percent matching the July
increase,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. The August
increase was also the same as the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey with 14 responses.  Canada’s currency will weaken to C$1.02 versus the  U.S.
dollar  by year-end before rebounding to 98 cents by the end of
2012, according to the median forecast of 35 economists and
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The median forecast from a month
ago was for the loonie to end 2011 at 98 cents per U.S. dollar.  Weekly Pattern  The loonie has declined 0.4 percent in the past week,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies. The greenback is down
2.5 percent, while the yen has lost 3.2 percent.  The euro rose as European Commission President  Jose Barroso 
unveiled proposals on coordinating bank recapitalizations across
the European Union. EU and International Monetary Fund officials
indicated yesterday that  Greece  will get an 8 billion-euro ($11
billion) loan next month. Germany and  France  pledged to draw up
a plan by early November.  “There’ve been a lot of comments from European officials
promising to increase the EFSF, and just maintaining their
commitment to these bailouts,” said Blake Jespersen, director
of foreign exchange in Toronto at Bank of  Montreal , referring to
the European Financial Stability Facility. “That was seen as
very positive news.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  