-- 
Canada August New House Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-10-12T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/canada-august-new-house-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the new house price index report for August released by
 Statistics Canada .  The New Housing Price Index (NHPI) rose 0.1% in August,
following a similar increase in July.  Evolution of the New Housing Price Index  The metropolitan region of Toronto and Oshawa was the
top contributor to the increase in August.  Between July and August, Regina (+1.2%) posted the
largest increase, followed by the aggregated metropolitan
regions of Greater Sudbury and Thunder Bay (+0.9%) as well
as Saint John, Fredericton and Moncton (+0.6%).  In Regina as well as in Greater Sudbury and Thunder
Bay, the price increases were primarily the result of
increased material costs. Builders in Saint John,
Fredericton and Moncton cited good market conditions as
the main reason for their price increases.  In August, prices remained unchanged in 6 of the 21
metropolitan regions surveyed.  The most significant monthly price declines were
recorded in  Vancouver  (-0.4%) and Victoria (-0.3%) as
builders recorded lower negotiated selling prices or
offered promotional pricing to generate sales.  Year-over-year, the NHPI was up 2.3% in August
following a similar increase in July. The main
contributors to the advance in August were the
metropolitan regions of Toronto and Oshawa as well as
 Montreal .  Toronto and Oshawa as well as Regina post the highest 
year-over-year price increases  The largest year-over-year price increases were in
Toronto and Oshawa as well as in Regina (both +5.1%).  Compared with August 2010, contractors' selling prices
were also higher in  St. John's  and Winnipeg (both +4.1%),
followed by Kitchener-Cambridge-Waterloo (+3.4%).  Among the 21 metropolitan regions surveyed, 5 posted 
12-month price declines in August, led by Windsor (-3.2%)
and Victoria (-1.9%).  Note: The New Housing Price Index measures changes over
time in the selling prices of new residential houses
agreed upon between the contractor and the buyer at the
time of the signing of the contract. It is designed to
measure the changes in the selling prices of new houses
where detailed specifications pertaining to each house
remain the same between two consecutive periods. The
prices collected from builders and included in the index
are market selling prices less value added taxes, such as
the Federal Goods and Services Tax or the Harmonized Sales
Tax.  This release presents data that are not seasonally
adjusted and the indexes published are final.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  