-- 
Cemex Surges on Speculation Investors Unwinding Shorts on Its U.S. Shares

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-10-12T20:22:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/cemex-surges-as-investors-unwind-short-positions-barclays-says.html
Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker
in the Americas, jumped as much as 27 percent amid speculation
investors sold short positions on the U.S. shares.  Cemex’s American depositary receipts rose 19 percent to
$3.44 at the close in  New York . The ADRs, which equal 10 locally
trades shares, rose to as high as $3.69, marking the biggest
intraday increase since December 2008.  There is short interest on 84.3 million ADRs, the highest
level since 88.3 million in March 2009, according to Bloomberg
data. Investors sought to get out of their short positions,
which added to a rally that began amid a global market rebound
this week, said Benjamin Theurer, a Barclays Bank Plc analyst in
Mexico City.  “It’s the classic move on short interest. You could make a
lot of money today,” Theurer said. “There’s no fundamental
explanation today for a move of 20 percent.”  Stocks in the U.S. and  Mexico  rose after European leaders
outlined plans to recapitalize banks and head off a sovereign
debt crisis. Cemex said it has nothing to disclose concerning
the shares’ upsurge in a filing to the Mexican stock exchange.  Debt Covenants  Cemex’s U.S. shares before today’s trading had plunged 72
percent this year on concern over sluggish construction in the
U.S. and a decline in the  Mexican peso , which hurts the
company’s profits in dollars. Cemex is struggling to meet debt
covenants and may have to renegotiate them with banks, Theurer
said. At the end of June, Cemex had $18.4 billion of total debt
plus perpetual notes.  “I still have my doubts concerning the covenants,”
Theurer said.  Cemex Chief Executive Officer Lorenzo Zambrano said the
company would meet a year-end covenant by selling assets,
cutting costs and improving profits. Cemex’s profits plunged in
2009, forcing it to negotiate a $15 billion  bank loan  to avoid
default. The company’s debt soared after it purchased Rinker
Group for $14.2 billion in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  