-- 
Jim Chanos, Bill Gross, Understand Wall Street Protests

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-10-12T20:28:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/chanos-signals-understanding-for-wall-street-protests-paulson-dismisses.html
Jim Chanos , founder of $6 billion
hedge fund Kynikos Associates, and  Bill Gross , who runs the
world’s biggest bond fund, joined top asset managers in voicing
understanding for anti-Wall Street protests as they spread to
 Manhattan ’s Upper East Side, home to the city’s financiers.  Chanos said New Yorkers don’t appreciate the impact
government bank bailouts have had on other U.S. citizens. Gross,
who works at Pacific Investment Management Co., said that wage
earners are fighting back after three decades of class warfare
against them.  “New York is so finance-centric that people here
underappreciate the reaction of the rest of the country,”
Chanos, who was born in Milwaukee, said yesterday in an
interview in New York. “People are angry, they feel the game is
rigged, that they didn’t get their fair shake.”  Demonstrators in New York marched to the upscale Upper East
Side neighborhood as the Occupy Wall Street movement that
started last month in New York’s financial district spread to
other U.S. cities.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Laurence D. Fink, who runs
the world’s biggest asset manager, and billionaire investor
 Warren Buffett  have said they understand the protesters’
frustration.  Hedge-fund manager  John Paulson , who became a billionaire
by betting against the U.S. housing market and then profited
from the recovery of banks, criticized the movement. His
townhouse was among those targeted by marchers who left a fake
tax-refund check made out for $5 billion on his doorstep, which
was barricaded by police.  Paulson Fights Back  “Paulson & Co. and its employees have paid hundreds of
millions in  New York City  and New York State taxes in recent
years and have created over 100 high paying jobs in New York
City since its formation,” the $30 billion hedge fund said
yesterday in a statement. “Instead of vilifying our most
successful businesses, we should be supporting them and
encouraging them to remain in New York City and continue to
grow.”  The protest march, which organizers called a “billionaires
walking tour,” targeted other executives including  Jamie Dimon ,
who runs  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and billionaire oilman David Koch.  Protesters have criticized the government for propping up
hobbled financial giants, including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Bank of
America Corp., with a $700 billion taxpayer-funded bailout in
2008, while leaving Americans to struggle with unemployment,
depressed wages, soaring foreclosures rates and slashed
retirement savings.  ‘Completely Understandable’  Citigroup, based in New York, and Bank of America, based in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , have repaid money they received from
the government.  Vikram Pandit, Citigroup’s chief executive officer, said he
would be happy to talk with protesters, calling their sentiments
“completely understandable.”  “Trust has been broken between financial institutions and
the citizens of the U.S., and that is  Wall Street ’s job, to
reach out to Main Street and rebuild that trust,” Pandit, 54,
said today at a breakfast organized by Fortune magazine in New
York.  Citigroup in January raised Pandit’s salary to $1.75
million from the $1 he told Congress he would take in 2009 until
the lender turned a profit. In May he entered into a company
profit-sharing plan that will give him an additional $25 million
if the firm meets analysts’ expectations.  Since Sept. 17, thousands of demonstrators have transformed
a park in lower Manhattan, near the site of the World Trade
Center, into a sea of blue tarps, sleeping bags and tables
offering free medical care and food.  London Protests  In  Boston , more than 100 people were arrested near the
city’s financial district where scores have been camping out in
tents since Oct. 1 to protest Wall Street policies, according to
the organizing group, Occupy Boston. The arrests followed a
march by thousands of students from Boston Common to the area
where the tents are pitched.  Demonstrators in the U.K. are preparing to set up camp
outside the London Stock Exchange, as well as the London offices
of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Bank of America, with protests
scheduled to begin Oct. 15, organizers said today.  Chanos, 53, said the “disjointed” nature of the
demonstration, which started last month in New York’s financial
district and spread to cities such as Washington and Seattle,
shouldn’t be underestimated because protests in the sixties
started in a similar way.  “The elderly and savers have been hurt by Fed policy,”
said Chanos, whose firm is based in New York.  ‘Class Warfare’  “Class warfare by the 99%? Of course, they’re fighting
back after 30 years of being shot at,” Gross  said  on a Twitter
post.  Fink, whose firm has $3.7 trillion under management, said
last week he understands the concerns of protesters speaking out
against financial companies in  New York  and other cities.  “These are not lazy people sitting around looking for
something to do,” Fink, 58, said on Oct 5 during an event in
Toronto. “We have people losing hope and they’re going into the
street, whether it’s justified or not.”  Fink received $23.8 million in compensation for 2010, a 50
percent increase from the previous year.  Joe Dear , 60, chief investment officer of the $218 billion
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System , said yesterday
in a CNBC interview that people are “waking up” to the fact
that “the game appears to be rigged.”  ‘Paycheck to Paycheck’  “The financial system gets bailed out, executives’
salaries stay high and the incomes of people who work for a
living, paycheck to paycheck, continue to decline,” he said.  Buffett, chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc ., said in
August that the nation’s richest people have been “coddled long
enough by a billionaire-friendly Congress” and called for
higher taxes for the “mega-rich” in the U.S.  Buffett, the world’s third-richest man, according to Forbes
Magazine, told  Charlie Rose  in New York during a Sept. 30
interview on PBS that class warfare is going on, “and my class
isn’t just winning, I mean we’re killing them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  