-- 
Chicago Hotel Tax Boosted, Police Stations Cut in Emanuel’s First Budget

-- B y   J a m e s   L a w s o n   a n d   A n d r e a   R i q u i e r
-- 
2011-10-12T17:52:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/chicago-hotel-tax-boosted-police-stations-cut.html
Chicago visitors would pay an extra
$1.78 a night on their hotel bills and rush-hour parking
downtown would cost more under the budget Mayor  Rahm Emanuel 
proposed today.  The fiscal 2012 plan, Emanuel’s first as mayor of the
third-largest U.S. city, also would close three police stations
and end Chicago’s tradition of ward-based garbage collection to
help plug the $635.7 million deficit left by his predecessor,
 Richard M. Daley .  “We can’t kick the can down the road because we ran out of
road,” Emanuel said as he presented his plan, which calls for
517 layoffs effective Jan. 1 and the elimination of more than
2,000 vacant positions. “No matter how tough times get,
Chicagoans are tougher.”  Emanuel, 51, said his budget would save taxpayers $417
million while avoiding increases in property or sales taxes. It
would boost average water and sewer bills by $120 a year to
replace 900 miles of century-old water pipes and other aging
infrastructure. The work would create more than 18,000 jobs in
the next 10 years, the administration said.  The mayor defended the percentage-point increase in the
city’s hotel tax by saying it would align Chicago’s levy with
 Los Angeles  and  New York .  Tourism Impact  “It will help increase revenue that supports tourism, not
deters it,” according to a statement from the mayor’s office.
The city is predicting an increase of as much as 7 percent in
hotel occupancies from a NATO summit and other events planned
for next year, so the administration said it doesn’t anticipate
a drop in tourism revenue.  The $3.09 billion budget would save additional money by
reducing library hours, merging police and fire department
headquarters and shutting some stations. The total is a 5.4
percent reduction in the $3.26 billion approved last year under
Daley, who retired in May.  “Closing police districts has always been the third rail of
 Chicago  politics, but that should not stop us from doing what’s
right,” Emanuel said. “The North Side district we are closing is
the one that serves my neighborhood and my community. If I
didn’t think this would improve public safety, I would not do
it.”  The proposal drew praise and caution from some aldermen.  “This is a very creative approach,” Alderman Deborah Graham
said after the presentation. “However, the closing of police
stations may be a sticking point for some.”  ‘Congestion Premium’  Emanuel’s plan would generate $28 million by imposing a $2
“congestion premium” on all drivers parking in downtown garages
and lots on weekdays.  “On a typical workday, our central business district is
jammed with vehicles which make it harder to do business,”
Emanuel said. The administration said it would use revenue from
the fee to rebuild two of the downtown area’s busiest elevated
train stations.  The budget, which must be approved by the City Council by
Dec. 31, would end the city’s tradition of having each of its 50
wards responsible for its own garbage collection. He proposes
doing so by a grid system that city officials said would save at
least $20 million.  The budget must make up for an estimated $23 million a year
the city will lose from Emanuel’s plan to reduce a head tax on
businesses with 50 or more employees.  Emanuel in the past has criticized Daley’s leasing of some
city operations, saying that reserve funds from the Chicago
Skyway and a 75-year deal on 36,000 city parking meters
shouldn’t have been used to balance budgets.  The new mayor doesn’t have the parking-meter money that
Daley repeatedly used to fill deficits, leading  Standard &
Poor’s  to cut Chicago’s credit rating on Nov. 5 by one level to
A+, the fifth-highest grade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Lawson in Chicago at 
 JLConcept@aol.com ;
Andrea Riquier in New York at 
 ariquier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at   fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  