-- 
Chilean Economists Forecast Interest Rate Cut in December

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-10-12T12:18:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/chile-economists-see-oct-interest-rate-at-5-25-survey-says.html
Chilean economists expect the
central bank to reduce its benchmark  interest rate  to 5 percent
in December, the first cut in more than two years, according to
a monthly survey posted today on the central bank’s website.  The key rate will fall to 4.75 percent by March and 4.5
percent by September, the survey showed. In last month’s survey,
economists forecast the first rate cut wouldn’t come until next
year.  The central bank, which last reduced interest rates in July
2009, may cut borrowing costs as soon as this week as a
proactive measure to mitigate the impact on Chile of a global
economic slowdown, Cesar Guzman, head of macroeconomic research
at Inversiones Security, said in a note to investors yesterday.  “The central bank is ready to reduce the monetary policy
rate,” he wrote in the e-mailed report. Accelerated inflation
in September as well as gains in spending and salaries “could
delay the start of the monetary stimulus until November.”  Three-month interest rate swaps, which reflect traders’
views of rate decisions, rose 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 5.18 percent at 9:14 a.m. in Santiago.  Inflation, which quickened to 0.5 percent in September from
0.2 percent in August, will slow to 0.3 percent in October,
according to the survey of economists. Annual inflation will
accelerate to 3.4 percent in December from 3.3 percent in
September, the poll showed.  According to a separate survey of traders and investors
released today by the central bank, the key interest rate will
remain at 5.25 percent this week and drop to 5 percent in three
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  