-- 
China Yuan Strengthens as PBOC May Allow Gains to Curb Inflation

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-10-12T10:05:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/china-yuan-strengthens-as-pboc-may-allow-gains-to-curb-inflation.html
China ’s yuan strengthened as the
nation’s stocks rose the most in a year and on speculation
policy makers will allow exchange-rate gains to curb inflation.  The currency erased an earlier loss of as much as 0.3
percent as the  Shanghai  Composite Index rallied 3 percent. The
yuan in Hong Kong jumped the most since September 2010, after
falling as much as 1.2 percent earlier. The  U.S. Senate  passed a
bill yesterday that would allow sanctions on countries with
misaligned exchange rates. The People Bank’s of China said today
the yuan’s exchange rate was at a “reasonable level” and it
would continue "gradual" currency reform.  “It’s a very volatile day for both onshore and offshore
yuan,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a Singapore-based senior
currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. “As the market
stabilizes, people are again selling the dollar and buying the
yuan. China will continue with the gradual appreciation approach
regardless of the U.S. Senate bill, which is political
posturing.”  The yuan rose 0.26 percent to close at 6.3585 per dollar in
Shanghai, after falling as much as 0.3 percent, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System. In Hong Kong’s offshore
market, the yuan rose 0.76 percent to 6.4260, a 1.1 percent
discount to the onshore spot rate. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards were little changed at 6.3805.  Consumer prices in China climbed 6.1 percent in September
from a year earlier, compared with August’s 6.2 percent
increase, according to the median estimate of 22 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before the data due on Oct. 14.  “There’s still strong desire in Beijing for the currency
to appreciate, with the domestic reasons to deal with inflation
and rebalance the economy,” said  Brian Jackson , a Hong Kong-
based strategist at  RBC Capital Markets .  Dumping Duties  The Senate voted 63-35 yesterday to approve the measure.
Under the bill, governments that undervalue their currencies
would face penalties, including increased dumping duties. House
Speaker  John Boehner  has said the measure risks starting a trade
war and urged President  Barack Obama  to oppose the bill. The
proposed U.S. legislation will disturb trade relations, China’s
Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  said in a statement.  The People Bank’s of China set the daily reference rate 0.2
percent weaker at 6.3598 per dollar today. The yuan is allowed
to fluctuate 0.5 percent on either side of the fixing. The U.S.
currency bill violates world trade rules and will not achieve
its aim of addressing American unemployment, Foreign Ministry
spokesman Liu Weimin told reporters at a briefing in Beijing
today.  Wider Swings  “The fixing today could be interpreted as a sign that
Beijing doesn’t want to be pressured by the U.S.,” said RBC’s
Jackson. “The Senate bill is unlikely to be passed by the House
and signed by the President. The bill may actually make it
harder, not easier, to encourage China to appreciate its
currency.”  Price swings in the yuan have widened in the past two
weeks. The yuan moved 0.497 percent from the  reference rate 
today, Bloomberg data show. The currency also neared the bottom
of the trading range in the final three days in September.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was 3.35 percent today, from 1.8
percent as of Sept. 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Election Politics’  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in
Washington yesterday in a Bloomberg TV interview that China must
move more quickly to allow its currency to appreciate and he’s
“very supportive” of the objectives of the Senate’s China
bill. The yuan has risen 10 percent in real terms since summer
last year and the U.S. has been pushing China “very hard” on
the currency, Geithner said.  China has been aggressive in “gaming the trading system,”
including intervening to keep the value of its currency
artificially low, Obama said in  Washington  last week. He also
warned that legislation in the Senate to penalize China risked
triggering a trade war.  “The bill is aimed at U.S. election politics,”  Tim Condon , Singapore-based head of Asian research at ING Groep NV,
wrote in a note today. “The threat of a trade war will keep it
from being passed.”  Global Demand  Yuan appreciation may slow if China’s exports fall further,
Jackson said. The world’s biggest exporting nation faces the
risk of its two largest markets, the European Union and the
U.S., falling back into recession. China’s exports rose 20.5
percent in September from a year earlier, down from 24.5 percent
in August, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists before data due tomorrow.  China’s gross domestic product climbed 9.3 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, according to a separate
survey before a report due next week. That would be the third
straight quarter of slowing growth.  The yuan added 1.2 percent against the dollar in the third
quarter, while  Brazil ’s real slumped 15 percent,  Russia ’s ruble
dropped 13 percent and  India ’s rupee weakened 8.7 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The JPMorgan Nominal Effective
Exchange Rate, a trade-weighted index for the yuan, gained 4.5
percent in September, the most since December 1997, increasing
the cost of goods made in China.  -- Editors: Anil Varma,  James Regan   To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  