-- 
China’s CIC to Invest $1 Billion in Kremlin-Backed Fund

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 
2011-10-12T10:45:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/china-sovereign-fund-to-invest-1-billion-in-kremlin-backed-fund.html
China  Investment Corp., the nation’s
sovereign-wealth fund, agreed to contribute $1 billion to a
Russian private-equity vehicle, the first foreign commitment to
a project championed by President  Dmitry Medvedev .  Beijing-based CIC, which oversaw $409.6 billion by
end-2010, plans to invest in a new Russia-China Investment Fund,
Kirill Dmitriev, head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund that
will co-manage the new vehicle, said by phone from Beijing
yesterday, where the agreement was signed during a visit by
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin .  CIC has been raising allocations to infrastructure, real-
estate and private-equity assets as well as increasing
investments in emerging markets since 2010 to help boost
returns, according to its annual  report . Its international
investments returned 11.7 percent last year, compared with the
9.6 percent gain in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index.  “It’s a strategic move and a form of support by China,”
said  Zhao Qingming , a Beijing-based senior analyst at China
Construction Bank Corp., the nation’s second-largest lender,
said by telephone. “China has demand for energy resources and
technology. Russia is lacking money, especially on the energy
side, and $1 billion isn’t a lot for China and CIC.”  The investment in the fund is a “fresh approach” for
China compared with its loan-for-oil agreements, according to
Zhao. The bulk of the sovereign fund’s investments are in
emerging markets, Ken Fan, an executive, said at a conference in
Moscow on Oct. 6.  Russia’s Potential  “Only four months after we were set up, we have shown that
investors want to put money in  Russia , and believe in Russia’s
investment potential,” Dmitriev said. “CIC is one of the
biggest and most respected investors in the world.”  The sovereign fund may be planning more investments in the
country. The 21st Century Business Herald reported today that
CIC is preparing to participate in the privatization of Russia
companies, including state-owned oil producer OAO Rosneft. CIC
and Rosneft are in initial talks on the investment outlook for
Russian oil assets, the newspaper said, citing a person familiar
with the situation it didn’t identify.  A Beijing-based CIC spokeswoman, who declined to be
identified because of company policy, declined to comment on the
report. Rustam Kazharov, a spokesman for Moscow-based Rosneft,
declined to comment by phone today.  CIC said two years ago it paid $300 million for 45 percent
of Russia’s Nobel Oil Group.  Cutting Rosneft Stake  The Russian government may cut its stake in Rosneft, which
produces almost a quarter of the nation’s oil, to less than 50
percent,  Arkady Dvorkovich , Medvedev’s economic adviser, said in
June. The president is urging a bigger state-asset sale program
to lure investors and speed up the lowest rate of growth among
major emerging economies.  The Kremlin established the Russian fund in June to co-
finance international investment amid efforts to deepen capital
markets and wean the economy off its dependence on energy
exports. Russia relies on energy sales for about 17 percent of
its gross domestic product, while commodities make up 8 percent
of Brazilian GDP, according to government data.  Russia will contribute $1 billion and will seek $1 billion
to $2 billion from other Chinese investors for its new fund,
Dmitriev said yesterday.  Reassuring Investors  The private-equity fund set up by Medvedev is trying to
reassure those wary of investing in the country by putting
government money alongside their capital in pursuit of returns
of as much as 30 percent, Dmitriev said in a Sept. 22 interview.  The Russian government will pump about $10 billion into the
fund in the next five years, and aims to attract an additional
$50 billion of co-investments from foreign buyout firms,
sovereign wealth funds and companies seeking to expand in the
country, he said at the time.  It’s in talks with a major foreign pharmaceutical company
seeking to expand in Russia and expects to complete some of the
20 deals it’s working on, with a combined value of $5 billion,
by early next year, according to Dmitriev.  Blackstone, Apollo  The Russian fund appointed  Lou Jiwei , chairman of CIC, to
its international advisory board in September, alongside  Stephen Schwarzman , Blackstone Group LP’s chief executive officer, and
 Leon Black , CEO of Apollo Global Management LLC.  The fund was in talks with a Chinese group about making
joint investments in deals that benefit from the Russia-China
relationship and trade, Dmitriev said in the Sept. 22 interview.  The Russia-China fund will invest at least 70 percent of
its capital in Russia, Belarus and  Kazakhstan , and expects to
make its first transaction by the end of the year. As much as 30
percent may be invested in China, according to a statement.  The Russian Direct Investment Fund will own 60 percent of
the company managing the joint investment vehicle with China,
Quinn Martin, the fund’s spokesman, said today by e-mail.  CIC was set up in 2007 with $200 billion in initial
capital. It is the world’s fifth-biggest country fund, according
to the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  