-- 
Chinese Banks’ Bad Debt May Hit 60% of Equity Capital, Credit Suisse Says

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-10-12T20:24:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/chinese-banks-bad-debt-may-hit-60-of-equity-capital-credit-suisse-says.html
Loan losses at Chinese banks may
climb to levels equivalent to 60 percent of their equity capital
as real-estate companies and local governments fail to repay
debts, according to  Credit Suisse Group AG .  Nonperforming loans will probably increase to 8 percent to
12 percent of total debt in the “next few years,” causing
losses amounting to 40 percent to 60 percent of Chinese banks’
equity, Hong Kong-based analysts led by Sanjay Jain at Credit
Suisse wrote in a research report dated Oct. 12. Jain cut 2012
and 2013 profit estimates by as much as 25 percent and
maintained an “underweight” rating on the industry.  Chinese bank stocks have tumbled this year, sending the
MSCI  China  Financials Index down as much as 43 percent, amid
growing concern that slower economic growth will spur bad debts
after a three-year credit boom. The retreat sent price-to-
earnings ratios on bank stocks to record lows and prompted the
government to begin buying shares in the four biggest lenders
this week. The MSCI gauge gained 9 percent in the past two days.  “Any sustained outperformance will be likely only after
banks effectively tackle issues related to asset quality,” Jain
wrote. Lending to real estate companies, manufacturers, local
governments and small and medium enterprises may cause more than
four fifths of the total bad debt, the analyst said.  Jain had previously estimated that Chinese banks’ bad debt
ratio would be 4.5 percent to 5 percent. The projection compares
with a “base case” forecast of 5 percent to 8 percent by
Moody’s Investors Service in July. Nonperforming loans were 1
percent of total debt as of June, according to the People’s Bank
of China.  Buying Spree  Central Huijin Investment Ltd., an arm of China’s sovereign
wealth fund, said Oct. 10. it began buying shares of the four
biggest Chinese banks and that it will continue with “related
market operations,” without providing details on how much it
will buy. Huijin’s purchases haven’t changed the bearish outlook
for the industry, said  Jim Chanos , founder of New York-based
hedge fund Kynikos Associates, who has been short-selling
Chinese banks, property developers and construction companies.  “The fact that people are even talking about the
government stepping in to shore up the banks, when two months
ago people thought there was nothing wrong with the Chinese
banks, should tell you just how seriously this situation is
deteriorating,” Chanos, who bet on a decline in Enron Corp.
shares before the company filed for bankruptcy in 2001, said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television Oct. 11.  ICBC, China Construction  Credit Suisse has given “outperform” recommendations on
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. and  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the world’s two biggest lenders by
market value.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) , the nation’s
third-biggest lender, China Minsheng Banking Corp. and  Chongqing
Rural Commercial Bank (3618)  Co. were rated “underperform.”  Shares of ICBC gained 1.2 percent in Hong Kong trading
yesterday. The increases in the past five days have helped trim
its loss this year to 25 percent. China Construction rose 2.5
percent yesterday, after it reached the lowest level in 29
months on Oct. 4.  Stocks in the MSCI China Financials Index traded at 6.8
times earnings yesterday, according to Bloomberg data, after the
multiple plunged to a record low of 5.6 on Oct. 4.  China’s banking watchdog ordered “systemically important”
lenders to have bad-loan provisions that are no less than 2.5
percent of total outstanding credit by the end of 2013, or 150
percent of non-performing debt, according to a statement on the
agency’s website Oct. 8. The nation’s lenders increased their
provision coverage ratio for bad loans to 249 percent in the
second quarter from 124 percent for the three months ended March
2009, China Banking Regulatory Commission data showed.  Bad Debts  Agricultural Bank said bad debts accounted for 1.67 percent
of total loans at the end of June in its semi-annual report, the
highest non-performing loan ratio among the biggest lenders,
compared with ICBC’s 0.95, Bank of China’s 1 percent and
Construction Bank’s 1.03.  The banking regulator told lenders in July to tighten
lending for real estate to guard against the risk of bad loans
should government efforts to cool the market cause property
prices to fall, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  China’s  property market  is in the “first parts of a very
serious pullback,” Chanos said. “The property market is what
investors ought to be watching, because that drives everything
in China.”  Home transactions in the world’s second-largest economy
fell during last week’s public holidays after residential prices
posted their first monthly decline in a year, according to
 Soufun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , China’s biggest real estate website owner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  