-- 
China May Impose Additional Fuel-Pricing Changes This Year

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-12T04:17:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/china-may-impose-additional-fuel-pricing-changes-this-year-1-.html
China , the world’s biggest energy
user, may announce changes to its fuel-pricing system by the
year-end and adjust gasoline and diesel tariffs more regularly
to curb consumption growth, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said.  Oil companies  may also be allowed to make price adjustments
within a range set by the government, Hong Kong-based Bernstein
analysts led by  Neil Beveridge  and  Michael Parker  wrote in a
report today.  China introduced a mechanism in December 2008 allowing the
National Development and Reform Commission, the top economic
planner, to adjust fuel prices when benchmark crude grades
fluctuate more than 4 percent over 22 working days. Controls on
fuel tariffs mean refiners including Sinopec, as  China Petroleum
& Chemical Corp. (386)  is known, cannot pass on increases in global
crude costs to consumers.  “If oil companies are allowed to make changes, it would be
a major step forward in achieving transparency and eliminating
losses from the system,” the analysts said. “Sinopec will be
the big winner when these reforms are announced.”  China, which controls fuel prices to curb inflation, raised
tariffs by about 10 percent in the first half while crude in New
York averaged 26 percent higher from a year earlier. PetroChina
Co.,  Asia ’s biggest company by market value, urged the
government to allow oil companies to earn “reasonable” margins
after second-quarter profit missed estimates.  Inflation Concerns  Sinopec, China’s largest refiner, rose 1.8 percent to
HK$7.22 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:14 a.m. local time, while
PetroChina was unchanged at HK$9.02. The benchmark  Hang Seng
Index (HSI)  advanced 0.3 percent.  The government may increase the frequency of fuel-price
adjustments and change the global crude price benchmarks it
monitors, the NDRC  said  on Oct. 8, without being more specific.  The government cut fuel prices for the first time this year
on Oct. 9 after crude oil costs fell. The NDRC last reduced
prices in June 2010, and since then, has increased them four
times, by about 20 percent.  “China hadn’t raised fuel prices enough” when crude
climbed to high levels in late April and early May because of
inflation concerns, the NDRC said. The  consumer price index  rose
6.2 percent in August, near the three-year high of 6.5 percent
in July.  Tax Regulations  Premier  Wen Jiabao  called on local governments to step up
efforts to conserve energy and reduce  carbon emissions , saying
the current situation is “rather severe,” according to a
report by the official Xinhua News Agency on Sept. 28.  China will extend a value-based tax on sales of oil and
natural gas nationwide starting next month to help conserve
energy, the government said on Oct. 10.  The tax, ranging from 5 to 10 percent of sales, may crimp
the earnings of Chinese oil and gas producers. Possible changes
to the windfall tax will likely offset the impact of the new
resource tax, the Bernstein analysts said.  The windfall tax, introduced in 2006, charges oil companies
at a rate of 20 to 40 percent of crude sales when oil is above
$40 a barrel. China is due to raise the threshold at which the
tax is paid this year, PetroChina Chairman  Jiang Jiemin  said on
March 14, citing a government plan. The adjustment will be made
when China introduces a nationwide resources tax, Jiang said.  “We expect the starting point of the windfall tax to be
increased by $10 to 20 a barrel,” the Bernstein report said.  Crude in  New York  rose to a 30-month high of $114.83 a
barrel on May 2 and has since declined to about $85.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jing Yang in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 