-- 
China Stock Futures Fall on U.S. Senate Bill, Property Curbs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-12T01:24:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/china-stock-futures-fall-on-u-s-senate-bill-property-curbs.html
China’s stock-index futures fell
after the  U.S. Senate  passed legislation aimed at pushing the
government to boost the value of the yuan and a southern Chinese
city backtracked on plans to ease property curbs.  Futures on the CSI 300 Index expiring in October lost 0.3
percent to 2,541.80 as of 9:16 a.m. local time. China Shenhua
Energy Co. may drop after the China Securities Journal said more
provinces will impose higher fees on coal producers. Changsha
Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and Technology Development Co.
may advance after saying nine-month profit may rise 92 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index added 0.2 percent to 2,348.52
yesterday, as banks advanced after a state-run investment arm
began buying shares of the nation’s four biggest lenders. The
CSI 300 Index lost 0.2 percent to 2,551.99.  “The increased pressure on the yuan will hurt Chinese
exporters like textile and electronic appliance companies,”
said Zhang Han, a strategist at Guotai Junan Securities Co.
“The government’s gesture to support the market hasn’t proved
sufficient to boost shares, hurting sentiment.”  The Shanghai Composite has tumbled 16 percent this year as
the government raised  interest rates  and reserve-requirement
ratios for banks to cool inflation that’s at the highest level
in almost three years. The stock measure is valued at 10.84
times estimated profit, compared with the record low of 10.82
times set on Oct. 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The CSI 300 Financials Index rose 1.3 percent yesterday
after state-run Central Huijin Investment Ltd. said it started
buying shares in the four biggest lenders including Bank of
China Ltd. The gauge’s estimated price-earnings ratio fell to a
record low of 8.02 on Oct. 10 amid concern slowing economic
growth will spur bad debts after a three-year credit boom.  Bearish on Banks  Jim Chanos , the hedge-fund manager who’s been betting that
Chinese bank stocks will tumble, said a rally spurred by
government purchases of the shares hasn’t changed his bearish
outlook.  “The fact that people are even talking about the
government stepping in to shore up the banks, when two months
ago people thought there was nothing wrong with the Chinese
banks, should tell you just how seriously this situation is
deteriorating,” Chanos, founder of New York-based hedge fund
Kynikos Associates, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s  Michael McKee  yesterday.  The U.S. Senate passed legislation letting companies seek
duties to compensate for a weak Chinese yuan, putting pressure
on House Speaker  John Boehner  to take up a bill he has called
“dangerous.”  China’s leaders and Washington opponents such as
Boehner and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have said the measure
risks starting a trade war.  The Senate voted 63-35 on the evening of Oct. 11 U.S. time
to approve the measure backed by Democrats such as Senators
Sherrod Brown of  Ohio  and  Charles Schumer  of  New York  and
Republicans including  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  and  Jeff
Sessions  of  Alabama .  Yuan Outlook  The yuan has appreciated 4.6 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past year and 24 percent in the past five years,
the steepest advance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  China  limits currency conversions for investment
purposes and buys dollars to slow the yuan’s advance and
preserve the competitiveness of China’s exports.  Foshan city in southern  Guangdong province  suspended its
decision to ease limits on property purchases less than a day
after the local government said it would allow residents to buy
a second home.  Local authorities need to further assess the impact of
relaxing property limits, Foshan’s Bureau of Housing and Urban-
Rural Development said late yesterday. The city government had
earlier yesterday said it would from today begin allowing local
residents to buy a second residential property priced at less
than 7,500 yuan ($1,177) per square meter.  Coal Taxes  Foshan would have been the first city in China to ease
measures ordered by the central government aimed at reining in
the nation’s property prices. Limits on mortgages and property
purchases introduced by the central government on concerns
surging prices could fuel an asset bubble and lead to social
unrest as homes became less affordable are also restricting an
important source of revenue for local authorities.  More coal producing provinces may follow Guizhou in the
southwest and increase charges for local coal producers, China
Securities Journal reported today, citing unidentified analysts.  Guizhou raised the charge to 10 percent of the coal sales
price starting Oct. 1, with the fee put into a local coal price
adjustment that will be used to subsidize coal-fired  power
plants , the newspaper said.  Coal producers plunged yesterday on concern about earnings
prospects after the government said it levy a tax of 8 yuan to
20 yuan on every metric ton of coking coal sold starting next
month. The tax on coking coal is 8 yuan a ton currently,
according to Anna Yu, a  Hong Kong  based energy analyst with ICBC
International Research Ltd.  Changsha Zoomlion estimated its net income in the first
nine months may have risen 92 percent to 6 billion yuan,
according to a filing to the Shenzhen Stock Exchange after the
market close yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  