-- 
Christie Approval Jumps to Record as Women Back Up Decision to Shun Race

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-10-12T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/christie-approval-rating-jumps-to-record-after-he-spurns-race.html
Governor  Chris Christie ’s approval
rating reached an all-time high after he turned away from a
presidential bid as 84 percent of New Jersey registered voters
said he did the right thing, according to  Quinnipiac University .  Almost three-fifths, or 58 percent, of those surveyed said
they approved of Christie’s job-handling, a poll released today
by the Hamden, Connecticut-based school shows. That’s up from 47
percent in August, as speculation built that he’d enter the
Republican field to challenge President  Barack Obama .  “There’s nothing like some national attention to get the
folks back home to appreciate you a little more,” said  Maurice Carroll , director of the university’s Polling Institute. “We
don’t know if it’s cause and effect, but Christie’s approval
rating, especially among women, is way up.”  Christie, 49, won a positive job-approval rating from more
than half of women in a Quinnipiac poll for the first time since
taking office in January 2010. The governor yesterday endorsed
 Mitt Romney  to be his party’s nominee against Obama next year.
Christie on Oct. 4 put an end to speculation that he might enter
the race after party leaders and financial backers called on the
governor to reconsider a year of denials that he would run.  The number of women who approved of Christie’s job
performance climbed to 51 percent from 37 percent in August, the
poll showed. Among men, 65 percent approved compared with 58
percent in August, when 36 percent disapproved. The governor’s
disapproval numbers fell to 44 percent for women surveyed, down
from 55 percent in August, and 32 percent among men.  Political Future  Those tallied also said by an overwhelming majority that
Christie made “the right decision” in spurning a White House
run. Just 10 percent said that was the wrong move. Yet 73
percent said the governor has a political future outside  New
Jersey .  Reflecting on the media attention Christie drew as he
reconsidered, 60 percent of respondents said it was good for the
state. Jokes about the governor’s girth “are in bad taste,”
according to 71 percent of those surveyed. Just 20 percent said
they were funny.  Pollsters questioned 1,186 registered voters by telephone
from Oct. 5-10. The survey has a margin of error of plus or
minus 2.9 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 