-- 
Cigna CEO Says Acquisitions Sought as Global Business Grows

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-10-12T12:28:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/cigna-ceo-says-acquisitions-sought-as-global-business-grows-1-.html
Cigna Corp. (CI) , a U.S. health insurer,
is “perpetually” looking at acquiring companies and has the
resources to make purchases of more than $1 billion, Chief
Executive Officer David Cordani said today.  The company’s capital position and profit growth of 19
percent a year allow it to be “opportunistic with
acquisitions,” Cordani said at a meeting with reporters in
Istanbul, where Cigna obtained a license to operate in August.  The Bloomfield, Connecticut-based insurer will seek to
acquire businesses worldwide that enable it to add capabilities,
expand or enter new areas, Cordani said.  “We’re looking at opportunities in all of these
categories, and we’re looking at them perpetually,” he said.
International business is expected to grow to a third of the
total from the present 20 percent within three years, excluding
acquisitions, he said.  Cigna invested “tens of millions of dollars” in starting
its business in  Turkey , which it singled out a year ago “as the
most attractive new market to enter,” Cordani said. This year,
the company failed in a bid to buy Turkish insurer Deniz
Emeklilik Hayat AS from  Denizbank AS (DENIZ) , Dexia SA’s Turkish arm.
 Metlife Inc. (MET) , the biggest U.S. life insurer, agreed to buy the
unit for 161.9 million euros ($224 million) in June.  Total life and non-life insurance premiums grew to 14.1
billion liras ($7.7 billion) in 2010, from 9.7 billion liras in
2006, according to the Turkish Treasury. Average spending on
insurance is $105 per person, compared with the global average
of $547 and the developed-markets average of $3,500, according
to Refik Berkol, Cigna’s Turkey CEO. “Turkey can achieve at
least the world average in years to come,” he said.  Direct Sales Focus  Cigna, which has 75 employees in Istanbul, is focusing on
individual direct sales in Turkey, where it plans to publicize
its products mainly through telemarketing, the Internet and
direct TV. Foreign companies have 69 percent of Turkish
insurance business, according to data given out at the meeting.  The company broke even in  China  in little more than three
years and now has 2,500 employees there, according to Bill Atwell, who heads global operations. He said he sees similar
potential in Turkey.  “Demographic trends play favorably to building a very
successful business here,” he said.  Cigna had revenue of $23.1 billion last year, according to
Bloomberg data. The insurer has $45.7 billion in assets,
including $1.6 billion in cash, its balance sheet as of last
Dec. 31 showed.  The shares rose 0.4 percent to $43.62 in New York trading
yesterday, extending their gain this year to 19 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  