-- 
Pandit: Happy to Talk With Wall Street Protesters

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-10-12T15:10:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/citigroup-s-pandit-says-he-d-be-happy-to-talk-with-wall-street-protesters.html
Vikram Pandit, chief executive
officer of  Citigroup Inc. (C) , said he would be happy to talk with
Occupy Wall Street protesters, calling their sentiments
“completely understandable.”  “Trust has been broken between financial institutions and
the citizens of the U.S., and that is Wall Street’s job, to
reach out to Main Street and rebuild that trust,” Pandit said
today at a breakfast organized by Fortune magazine in  New York .  Several hundred people tied to the movement marched on the
New York City homes of Wall Street figures including billionaire
hedge fund manager  John Paulson  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  CEO
Jamie Dimon yesterday. Pandit, who bought a 10-room apartment on
the Upper West Side for $17.9 million in 2007, said he would
tell the protesters how Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank,
is trying to increase lending to small businesses.  “I’d talk about the fact that they should hold Citi and
the financial institutions accountable for practicing
responsible finance,” Pandit, 54, said. “I’d be happy to talk
to them any time they want to come up.”  Pandit also confirmed that Citigroup would make a profit in
the third quarter, the bank’s seventh profitable quarter in a
row since losing a total of $29.3 billion during 2008 and 2009.
The bank may post earnings of $2.49 billion, according to a
survey of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The economic recovery is not what we all want it to be,”
Pandit said. “There are a number of people who can’t achieve
what they’re capable of achieving and that’s not a good place to
be.”  -- Editor: Steve Dickson  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 