-- 
Citigroup Japan Probe, Volcker Rule, Recruiting: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-10-12T12:40:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/citigroup-japan-probe-volcker-rule-recruiting-compliance.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  stopped soliciting
clients for some retail banking products in Japan as it awaits
the outcome of a government investigation into its compliance
with local rules, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The U.S. bank told employees at its Japan retail unit in
late June not to market financial products such as investment
trusts and foreign currencies, said the people, who declined to
be identified as the information is confidential.  Citibank Japan Ltd.  is reviewing its compliance processes
and offering training to staff to improve internal controls, the
people said. Citigroup, which has 32 branches and offices in
Japan with 1,780 employees, still helps customers exchange
currencies or buy products if asked, they said.  Mika Nemoto, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Citigroup,
declined to comment on the lender’s response to the
investigation.  The U.S. bank faces a possible penalty from the  Financial
Services Agency  in Japan by as early as Dec. 31 for failing to
fully explain product risk to retail customers, two people
familiar with the situation previously said.  Compliance Policy  Dodd-Frank’s Volcker Rule Released by Regulators for Comment  U.S. regulators requested public comment on Dodd-Frank Act
restrictions that would ban banks from making short-term trades
for their own accounts and prevent them from owning or
sponsoring hedge funds and private-equity funds.  The so-called Volcker rule, released yesterday by the
 Federal Reserve , the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, is aimed at heading
off risk-taking that helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  The language of the rule is little changed from drafts that
have been leaking in recent weeks. It would ban banks from
taking positions held for 60 days or less, exempt certain
market-making activities, change the way traders involved in
market-making are compensated, and make senior bank executives
responsible for compliance.  The board of the FDIC voted 3-0 yesterday to seek comments
on the proposal through Jan. 13. The Federal Reserve also said
it would accept feedback by that date.  For more, click here.  CFTC May Finish Curbs on Speculation for Oct. 18, Gensler Says  The top U.S. commodities regulator may complete Dodd-Frank
Act limits on speculation in oil, natural gas and other markets
at an Oct. 18 Washington meeting, said  Gary Gensler , chairman of
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  At the same meeting, the agency’s five commissioners may
also vote on rules governing clearinghouses that stand between
buyers and sellers in derivatives markets, Gensler said in a
speech prepared for a  Futures Industry Association  conference
yesterday in Chicago. In addition, the agency may vote to delay
until next year regulations that were originally scheduled to be
completed by last July and already were postponed to the end of
the year.  The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission , which are
leading U.S. efforts to write new derivatives rules, are also
working on a final rule that will define which Wall Street
banks, energy firms and other companies are considered swap
dealers or other major swap participants. Those definitions will
lead companies to have higher capital and margin requirements to
limit risk in trades.  A requirement to clear swaps may not take effect until the
second quarter of 2012 with some smaller participants in the
derivatives markets having an additional nine months to comply,
Gensler said.  Stockbrokers Balk at Australian Fees to Fund New Regulator  Plans to make users of Australia’s securities markets pay
some of the costs of regulation are too expensive and unfair,
according to brokers, exchanges and industry associations.  The complaints are contained in industry  responses  to a
 plan  by the Australian Treasury to raise almost A$30 million
($29.9 million) in the first 18 months toward the budget of the
 Australian Securities and Investments Commission , the country’s
market regulator. The government is proposing flat supervision
fees for exchanges based on market share, charges for the cost
to connect to new technology platforms and imposts for both
trades and computer messages for market participants.  ASIC, as the regulator is known, took over direct
supervision of financial markets in August 2010 from the
country’s main bourse,  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  The transfer was part of a plan
by the  Labor Party  government of Prime Minister Julia Gillard to
turn Australia into a financial hub by introducing competition
in the Asia-Pacific’s fourth-largest equity market. Opponents of
the charges say the plan will deter new operators.  The total estimated cost recovered by Treasury from the
charges will be A$29.8 million in 18 months from Jan. 1, 2012,
to June 30, 2013. The charges will be reviewed after that.  A major point of contention among industry participants is
a proposed fee related to computer messaging by brokers using
ASIC’s computer system to execute trades. A draft consultation
by Treasury says it intends to charge more to those with greater
trading volume.  A  response  submitted by the  Australian Financial Markets
Association , which represents more than 140 banks, brokers,
securities companies, fund managers and trading companies, notes
this inherently charges more to traders using high-frequency
strategies.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Goldman May Drop Bank Status on Volcker Rule Cost, Hilder Says  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  may consider
dropping their status as bank holding companies to avoid
expenses tied to the Volcker rule, said  David Hilder , an analyst
at Susquehanna Financial Group LLP.  The Volcker rule in its current form would impose costs on
lenders and drive capital to non-bank market makers, causing the
two New York-based firms to consider whether to stop being
banks, Hilder said in a note yesterday, when four regulatory
agencies issued a 298-page draft of the rule for public comment.  Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley were the biggest U.S.
securities firms before they converted to bank holding companies
after the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. Both became subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve
and won access to central bank programs such as the discount
window, which are designed to protect deposit-taking banks.  David Konrad, a bank analyst at  KBW Inc. (KBW) , said in a
telephone interview that Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley are
unlikely to change their status as bank holding companies to
dodge the Volcker restrictions because Congress would then amend
the rule to include systemically important banks rather than
holding companies.  Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer David Viniar said
Jan. 21, 2010, the same day President Barack Obama announced his
support for the Volcker rule, that it was “unrealistic” to
imagine the firm won’t be a federally supervised bank.  The rule was included in last year’s regulatory overhaul to
rein in risky trading.  Stephen Cohen, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, and Morgan
Stanley’s Mark Lake declined to comment.  EBA Asks Banks for More Debt Information in Capital Review  The European Union’s top banking regulator asked lenders
for more information on sovereign debt holdings as part of its
review of financial industry capital levels, four people
familiar with the situation said.  The  European Banking Authority  asked banks for “the
difference between the book value and the fair value of
sovereign assets” in their “held to maturity and loans and
receivables portfolios,” according to a data template seen by
Bloomberg News. Banks were also asked for “relevant changes”
to their balance sheet made since June.  Ben Fischer , a spokesman for German financial regulator
Bafin, said in an interview that the request for information
isn’t a new stress test. He described it as “more of an update
of numbers on foreign exposure, a follow-up to the old stress
test.”  European Commission  President  Jose Barroso  is expected to
propose measures today to recapitalize banks gripped by the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis. Heads of state are scheduled to
meet in Brussels later this month to discuss the proposals.  Lenders haven’t been told what the EBA intends to do with
the anticipated data, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the process is private.  Fed Requests Comment on Simplifying Reserve Requirement Rule  The Federal Reserve requested comment on proposed rules
that would simplify so-called Regulation D, a rule focused on
reserve requirements for banks.  The proposals are “intended to simplify the administration
of reserve requirements and reduce administrative and
operational costs for both depository institutions and Reserve
Banks,” the Fed said yesterday in a statement in Washington.  The rules would create a common two-week maintenance period
for all depository institutions, set up a “penalty-free band”
around reserve balance requirements and eliminate the
contractual clearing balance program. The Fed is seeking comment
within 60 days of the proposed rule’s publication in the Federal
Register.  Banks May Face Fraud, Municipal Claims After Settlement  U.S. banks may still face state securities-fraud claims and
municipal lawsuits over unpaid mortgage fees under a settlement
that is “getting closer,” the official leading talks for state
attorneys general said.  Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller said in an interview Oct.
10 that any settlement wouldn’t prevent a growing number of
municipalities from suing banks for allegedly cheating them out
of millions of dollars in filing fees, or individual states from
pursuing securities claims against banks.  State attorneys general and federal officials have been
negotiating a settlement with the largest mortgage servicers.
Officials are seeking an agreement that would fund loan
modifications for homeowners and set requirements for how the
banks conduct foreclosures.  For more, click here.  Bank Failures Will Cost $19 Billion Through 2015, FDIC Says  U.S. bank failures through 2015 will drain $19 billion from
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. fund for covering losses
from shutdowns, the agency said in an update of its reserve
ratio projections.  The $19 billion figure reported by the FDIC yesterday is a
decrease from the estimated $23 billion needed to cover bank
failures in 2010, reflecting both the slowing rate of bank
shutdowns and the impact of assessment increases imposed by the
FDIC to bolster the Deposit Insurance Fund.  Yesterday’s report shows that the FDIC may have gone
farther than it needed to in increasing assessments, according
to  James Chessen , chief economist for the  American Bankers
Association .  Failed Bank’s Executives Sued by SEC for Concealing Losses  Three former United Commercial Bank executives misled
investors by concealing at least $65 million in loan losses
before the San Francisco-based lender collapsed in 2009, the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said.  Thomas Wu, who was the bank’s chief executive officer,
worked with chief operating officer Ebrahim Shabudin and senior
officer Thomas Yu to hide impaired assets from auditors, causing
UCBH Holdings Inc. to understate 2008 operating losses, the SEC
said in a complaint filed yesterday in California. Shabudin and
Yu will face related criminal fraud charges under a federal
grand jury indictment unsealed in  San Francisco .  “Hundreds of banks have failed in the financial crisis and
the regulators need to blame someone,” Steven Bauer, Wu’s
attorney at Latham & Watkins LLP, said in a statement. “Thomas
Wu is counting on our justice system to clear his good name.”  United Commercial was one of the 10 biggest bank failures
to result from the 2008 credit crisis, causing a $2.5 billion
loss to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s insurance fund,
the SEC said.  Craig On, the bank’s former chief financial officer,
separately agreed to pay $150,000 and accept a five-year
suspension from practicing before the SEC to resolve claims that
he helped the fraud, the agency said. On, 59, didn’t admit or
deny wrongdoing in settling the SEC’s claims.  Phone calls to James Lassart, a lawyer for Shabudin;
Stephen Kaus, a lawyer for Yu; and Nanci Clarence, an attorney
for On, weren’t returned.  The FDIC said yesterday in a separate release it fined 13
former United Commercial employees more than $1.7 million
combined.  Interviews/Speeches  Trading Rebates on Exchanges Should End, ICE’s Sprecher Says  The pricing system used by the majority of U.S. stock
exchanges should be banned because it encourages trading aimed
only at collecting rebates, according to Jeffrey Sprecher, chief
executive officer and chairman of  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)   Regulators shouldn’t let venues offer maker-taker pricing,
in which an exchange charges some firms to trade and gives
others rebates, Sprecher said yesterday at a  Futures Industry
Association  conference in Chicago. He said the pricing structure
discourages some traders from owning stock.  The number of U.S. stock and options exchanges has risen to
13 and nine, respectively, and one way they try to differentiate
themselves is with pricing plans. Maker-taker pricing is mainly
used to compensate market makers and other providers of bids and
offers, while traders who execute against those orders pay a
fee. Most futures exchanges charge trading fees and offer no
rebates.  The maker-taker system is reversed on some markets to pay
firms that trade against orders supplied by market makers or
others who are charged a fee. That pricing, called taker-maker,
in conjunction with the more popular structure may allow traders
to be paid to supply orders on one market and get rebates when
they trade against bids or offers elsewhere.  For more, click here.  Maughan Says Capital Requirement ‘Wall’ Curbs New Banks  Simon Maughan , head of sales and distribution at MF Global
Ltd., discussed the  Independent Commission on Banking ’s proposed
changes to the U.K. financial industry.  He talked from  London  with  Andrea Catherwood  and Elliott
Gotkine on Bloomberg Television’s “Last Word.”  For the video, click here.  Erste’s Treichl Says  Europe  Should Enact Basel Uniformly  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  head Andreas Treichl said Europe should
implement new rules by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision in a uniform way and refrain from rules that differ
from country to country.  “It’s not going to be a level playing field in Europe,”
Treichl told European Union lawmakers in Brussels yesterday.
“There are too many people and countries in Europe who are
trying to improve it on their own,” he said. “Why don’t we
just agree that we all accept Basel III as it is. It’s great and
it’s going to make banking safer.” He added that it is a
“dangerous path” to change bank capital rules without first
resolving the European debt crisis.  Treichl, whose bank is the biggest in Austria and the
second-biggest in eastern Europe, said he “just can’t accept”
that the new Basel accord doesn’t help lending to companies
“whose only mistake is that they are too small to get a
rating.”  “While we increase the capital requirements for lending to
the real economy, high-frequency trading has tripled over the
last three years,” he said. “I’d love to have something that
kills this stupid business tomorrow.”  Erste generates more than three-quarters of its revenue
from retail clients and small and medium-sized companies.  Comings and Goings  EU Bank Recruiting Hurt by Global Bonus Rules, FSB Says  European Union banks face tougher pay and bonus rules than
rivals in other countries, putting them at a competitive
disadvantage in attracting talent, the Financial Stability Board
said.  The U.S, Australia, Canada,  Hong Kong  and Japan have given
banks “more flexibility” than the U.K. and other EU countries
in applying international rules limiting bonuses, the FSB said
yesterday following a review of global practices. National
regulators should address the “level playing field” issues,
the FSB said.  EU regulators approved laws to impose limits on cash
payouts and on the size of bankers’ bonuses. Thirteen of the
FSB’s member countries, including EU nations, have implemented
the FSB pay guidelines, the FSB said. All but one of the
standards have been adopted in the U.S, Switzerland and
Australia. Argentina and  South Africa  are among countries that
have made the least progress.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 