-- 
McKillen Sues Barclay Brothers Over Claridge’s Owner Maybourne’s Debt Deal

-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 
2011-10-12T17:05:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/mckillen-sues-barclay-brothers-over-maybourne-hotels-debt-deal.html
Patrick McKillen, who holds 36
percent of Maybourne Hotels Ltd., sued fellow shareholders David
and  Frederick Barclay  in a dispute over a deal involving the
landmark London hotel operator’s debt.  McKillen is also suing Maybourne Finance Ltd., the company
that the Barclays used to acquire 800 million euros ($1.1
billion) of the hotel group’s debt last month, according to an
Oct. 5 filing in London’s High Court.  “We are taking this action to protect our shareholding,”
said Breda Keena, a spokeswoman for McKillen, in an e-mailed
statement. She declined to comment further.  Maybourne Hotels  owns the Berkeley, Claridge’s and
Connaught luxury hotels in the U.K. capital. Two Irish banks
loaned 800 million euros to fund the acquisition of the hotels
in 2005. Ireland’s National Asset Management Agency acquired the
loans from the banks in June 2010, according to a statement by
NAMA. It then sold them to the Barclays, the billionaire owners
of  London ’s Daily Telegraph newspaper.  The Barclay brothers declined to comment through spokesman
 Max McGahan .  Maybourne’s parent company, Coroin Ltd., was due to repay
660 million pounds ($1.04 billion) to NAMA on Sept. 30. A new
loan had been agreed to on April 1 and was to be renewed each
quarter “subject to NAMA’s consent,” according to regulatory
filings by Coroin this month. The deal for the loans was
announced on Sept. 29.  McKillen released a statement following the announcement of
the Barclays’ loan purchase that he remained Maybourne’s largest
shareholder with 36 percent.  The suit also names  Misland  (Cyprus) Investments Ltd.,
which was bought by the Barclay brothers in January and owns
about 25 percent of Coroin. McKillen is also suing Coroin
directors Richard Faber, Michael Seal and Rigel Mowatt as part
of the case.  Faber, Seal and Mowatt couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment.  The case is: McKillen v. Barclay & Ors., case no.
HC11C03437,  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division  (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 