-- 
Cloud Peak Value Means Even Record Premium Is Cheap: Real M&A

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-10-12T20:24:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/cloud-peak-rock-bottom-value-means-even-record-premium-is-cheap-real-m-a.html
Cloud Peak Energy Inc. (CLD)  is so cheap
that a potential acquirer could pay a record premium for a coal
producer and still secure the Powder River Basin mining company
at the industry’s lowest valuation.  Even matching the coal industry’s highest takeover premium
of 56 percent, a buyer would get Cloud Peak for 11.5 times this
year’s estimated net income, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. At that premium, a $1.8 billion purchase of the
Gillette, Wyoming-based company’s equity would be the least
expensive relative to earnings of any coal acquisition greater
than $1 billion, the data show.  With Rio Tinto Group’s sale of the stake in its former coal
unit in December removing an obstacle, Cloud Peak may now lure
takeover interest from  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  or
Glencore International Plc, according to Morningstar Inc. An
acquirer could export Cloud Peak’s thermal coal to China and
 India  as the world’s fastest-growing major economies ramp up
electricity production, Morningstar said. Cloud Peak also
produces cleaner coal that will be more coveted as power plants
reduce emissions to comply with new pollution regulations, said
Tudor Pickering Holt & Co.  “The valuation does look really attractive,” Todd Williams, a Dallas-based coal analyst and fund manager at
Westwood Holdings Group Inc., said in a telephone interview. “A
longer-term option is exporting Powder River Basin coal into
Asia. So if you’re a global coal company and you’re looking at
that situation, it’s a nice long-term option for some cheap
coal.”  Westwood oversees $13.8 billion including 1.85 million
Cloud Peak shares.  Today’s Trading  Molly Nichelson, a spokeswoman for Cloud Peak, Samantha
Stevens, a spokeswoman for Melbourne-based BHP, and Alison Flynn, a spokeswoman for Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata, and
 Simon Buerk , a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore,
declined to comment on market speculation.  Cloud Peak shares climbed as much as 4.9 percent today
before closing up 2.8 percent at $19.57 in  New York  trading.
That was almost triple the 1 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Rio, now the world’s second-biggest mining company, took
its Cloud Peak coal unit public in November 2009 and retained a
48 percent stake. After London-based Rio sold off the rest of
its holdings in December 2010, Cloud Peak Chief Executive
Officer Colin Marshall said on a May conference call that the
company isn’t structured in a way that “would stop someone
making an offer if they wanted to.” He was responding to a
question about whether the company had so-called golden
parachutes or a poison pill that may deter hostile bids.  ‘Anybody’s Game’  “Rio got rid of its shares,” Michael Tian, a Chicago-
based analyst at Morningstar, said in a phone interview. “It’s
really anybody’s game now.”  A buyer willing to pay 56 percent more than Cloud Peak’s
closing stock price yesterday -- matching the highest premium in
a coal deal greater than $1 billion -- would value the company
at about $29.69 a share, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The industry’s record for a premium was set in
November when Walter Energy Inc. agreed to pay 56 percent more
than Western Coal Corp.’s 20-day stock trading average in a $3.9
billion takeover, the data show.  A price tag of about $1.8 billion for Cloud Peak, not
including $604 million in net debt, would equate to 11.5 times
analysts’ estimated net income of $157.3 million this year. That
would be the cheapest multiple in the industry for any deal
greater than $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Nothing Else’  “It’s undervalued in the market,” Brandon Blossman, an
analyst at Tudor Pickering, the Houston-based investment bank
specializing in energy companies, said in a phone interview.
“We like the basin and we like Cloud Peak because it’s
leveraged to that basin and nothing else.”  The Powder River Basin in Montana and  Wyoming , where  Arch
Coal Inc. (ACI) ,  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  and  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR) 
also operate, contains the largest and least-expensive U.S. coal
reserves.  “You only have a limited number of players as it is, so
anyone wanting to take over Cloud Peak would have to come from
the outside,” Lucas Pipes, a New York-based analyst at Brean
Murray Carret & Co., said in a phone interview. “The Federal
Trade Commission would probably not allow a Peabody or an Alpha
or an Arch to take out the fourth player in the area.”  ‘The Long Run’  Cloud Peak’s assets may instead appeal to BHP, the world’s
largest mining company, Xstrata, the biggest exporter of coal
burned in power plants, or commodities trader Glencore, said
Morningstar’s Tian. The companies could help build the rail and
port capacity on the U.S. West Coast needed to export more coal
to  Asia  because they already have established trading routes and
customer relationships in the region, Tian said.  “In recent years, Asia coal demand has spiked,” Tian
said. “The Powder River Basin, located on the other side of the
world, in the long run could become the bridge.”  While Cloud Peak declined 18 percent this year through
yesterday amid concern the global economy may fall back into a
recession, it fared better than the 29 percent retreat for the
Stowe Global Coal Index of 35 companies primarily focused on
coal mining and production. Cloud Peak closed at $19.03
yesterday, giving it a market value of about $1.16 billion. It
traded at 1.76 times the value of its net assets, near its
record low price-to-book ratio of 1.46 times, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Coal Prices  Cloud Peak may deserve to trade at a discount because its
mines have a lower reserve life relative to competitors and
won’t benefit if prices rebound for metallurgical coal used in
steelmaking, Pipes at Brean Murray wrote in an August report.  Still, while economic slowdowns in the U.S. and  Europe  have
pushed down prices for steelmaking coal from a record, thermal
coal may rise as high as $138 a metric ton by 2013, helped by
increasing demand for electricity in  China  and India, Credit
Suisse Group AG said in a report on Oct. 4.  China’s economy 
expanded 9.5 percent in the second quarter compared with the
year-earlier period, while India grew 7.7 percent, the biggest
increases among the world’s 10 largest economies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The benchmark Asian price for thermal coal was $120.55 a
metric ton in the week ended Oct. 7, according to IHS McCloskey,
a Petersfield, England-based data provider. That’s 1.4 percent
lower than the previous week. Prices reached a peak of $130.85 a
ton in March, the data show.  ‘A Little Hotter’  “It makes sense to take the stuff from Wyoming, train it
over to  Washington  or  Oregon  and ship it because it’s low-
sulfur, it burns a little hotter and you can deliver it
cheaper,” David Beard, an analyst at Iberia Capital Partners
LLC, said in a telephone interview from New Orleans. “It’s
cleaner coal for the U.S. market, and it’s cleaner coal for the
international market.”  The Powder River Basin’s coal for use in power plants
contains 15 times less sulfur and leads to fewer emissions of
 greenhouse gases  than coal from the eastern U.S., according to
the U.S. Department of the Interior.  The Environmental Protection Agency in July issued a final
regulation, the  Cross-State Air Pollution Rule , requiring 27
states from New York to  Texas  to improve  air quality  by reducing
power-plant emissions. By 2014, combined with other EPA actions,
the rule will require the reduction of sulfur dioxide emissions
by 73 percent from 2005 levels.  “More aggressive air regulation in general and sulfur
specifically are going to benefit PRB and make Cloud Peak more
attractive,” said  Tudor Pickering ’s Blossman. “It is an
excellent value here for somebody.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 