-- 
Codelco Targets Anglo American Chile Stake After $6.75 Billion Mitsui Loan

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   J a v i e r a   B a e z a
-- 
2011-10-12T20:46:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/codelco-signs-6-75-billion-loan-for-purchase-of-los-bronces-mine-holding.html
Codelco, the world’s biggest copper
company, plans to exercise an option to buy as much as 49
percent of an  Anglo American Plc (AAL)   Chile  unit in a deal that may
increase the state-owned company’s annual output by 10 percent.  Mitsui & Co. Ltd., based in  Tokyo , agreed to lend Codelco
up to $6.75 billion toward the acquisition of the stake in Anglo
American Sur SA, which owns the Los Bronces and El Soldado mines
in central Chile, Codelco said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. The Santiago-based company also agreed to sell Mitsui
30,000 tons of copper a year and can repay some of the loan
through selling Mitsui 50 percent of the stake acquired.  “If, as currently anticipated, we exercise the purchase
option, we hope to work closely with Anglo American,” Chief
Executive Officer  Diego Hernandez  said in the statement. “Our
investment decisions aren’t affected by the volatility that the
global economy may experience in the short term.”  Hernandez plans to spend about $20 billion this decade to
revamp aging mines as part of a total $67 billion estimated
investment by mining companies in the world’s biggest copper
producing nation. Chile is seeing few signs of weaker Chinese
demand even after prices plunged on concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis will damp raw material demand, Mining Minister Hernan de Solminihac said in an Oct. 5 interview.  The decision on whether to take up the option in January
will depend on market conditions and the company’s finances at
the time, Hernandez told reporters in Santiago yesterday. The
deal with Mitsui won’t affect Codelco’s investment plan, he
said.  Put Option   Codelco would participate in the transaction through its
investment subsidiary Inversiones Mineras Acrux SA. The
arrangement with Mitsui gives Codelco an option to sell the
company half of any stake it buys as part payment for the loan.
The deal values the 49 percent stake at about $9.76 billion.  The rest of the loan would be converted into a five-year
loan to Acrux, not backed by Codelco. The loan would then be
paid with income from the new stake in Anglo American Sur,
Codelco said in the statement.  Should Acrux exercise its put option and sell half of its
stake to Mitsui, the companies have drafted a shareholder pact.  Besides the mines in the Andes Mountains north of Santiago,
Anglo American Sur also owns the Chagres copper smelter and two
nearby exploration prospects.  Anglo Considers  The unit produces about 450,000 metric tons a year, meaning
the deal would increase Codelco’s output by as much as 10
percent, the state-owned company said.  Anglo America, based in  London , will consider the
implications of Codelco’s announcement, it wrote yesterday in an
e-mailed statement, without elaborating.  Codelco’s option to buy dates from a 1978 option given to
the Empresa Nacional de Mineria by Exxon Minerals Chile Inc.
Empresa Nacional de Mineria transferred the right to Codelco in
2008. The option can be exercised every three years.  Los Bronces produced 221,400 tons last year, a 7 percent
decline compared with 2009, Anglo American said in its last
 annual report . The company plans a $2.5 billion expansion of the
mine, scheduled to start in the fourth quarter, aimed at making
it the fifth-largest  copper mine  in the world. Codelco’s Andina
mine is adjacent to Los Bronces.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net ;
Javiera Baeza in Santiago at 
 jbaeza1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  