-- 
Colombia Bond Yields Fall Near 3-Week Low on Europe Optimism

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-10-12T18:57:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/colombia-bond-yields-fall-to-three-week-low-on-europe-optimism.html
Colombia ’s peso bonds rose, pushing
yields near a three-week low, as optimism  Europe  will contain
its sovereign debt crisis boosted demand for higher-yielding,
emerging-market assets.  The yield on Colombia’s benchmark 10 percent bonds due in
July 2024 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
7.47 percent. It fell to 7.46 percent on Oct. 10, its lowest
level on a closing basis since Sept. 20. The bond’s price rose
0.135 centavo today to 120.320 centavos per peso.  Global stocks rose and emerging-market currencies gained as
the European Union released a road map of its plans to
recapitalize banks and halt the region’s debt crisis. European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  called for a “coordinated
approach” to recapitalize the region’s banks as well as the
payout of a sixth loan to  Greece  and a faster start for a
permanent rescue fund to master Europe’s debt woes.  “Local markets have a high correlation with what is
happening abroad, and in that sense volatility should
continue,” said Pedro Ospina, a bond analyst at Interbolsa SA,
the nation’s biggest brokerage. “There’s still no clarity on
what will happen to Europe, but markets today are driven by the
hope the crisis will be contained.”  Colombia may pare next year’s local bond auction plan as
faster economic growth bolsters tax revenue and reduces the
government’s financing needs, Public Credit Director German Arce
said in an interview yesterday.  Government Financing Program  The government will announce new figures for its 2012
financing program in December, Arce said. A reduction would be
the second this year after Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry trimmed last month the planned offerings to 18.6
trillion pesos ($9.8 billion) from an initial 20 trillion pesos
after a debt swap lowered financing needs.  “If there are any surprises, these will be positive in
fiscal terms,” Arce said.  Local peso bonds, known as TES, will gain should Colombia
trim issuance plans further, according to Ospina.  “A lower supply should help TES,” said Ospina. “As
uncertainty in the external market falls, local assets will
again be driven by Colombia’s fundamentals. For now, though,
we’re very tied to movements in external markets.”  The peso rose 1 percent to 1,896 per  U.S. dollar , from
1,914.75 yesterday. It has dropped 4 percent in the past month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  