-- 
Free-Trade Accords With Korea, Colombia, Panama Pass U.S. House

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-10-12T22:37:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/congress-begins-debate-on-korea-colombia-panama-trade-accords.html
The U.S. House of Representatives
passed legislation for free-trade agreements with  South Korea ,
 Colombia  and Panama reached more than four years ago, sending
the measures to the Senate for final votes tonight.  “We want America to compete and win, and today’s action
shows our friends and allies around the world that America is
leading again by resurrecting a robust trade agenda,”
Representative Dave Camp, the Michigan Republican who leads the
House Ways and Means Committee, said in an e-mailed statement.  The accords, reached under President  George W. Bush  and
revised by the Obama administration, had been stymied in a
stalemate with Republicans over aid for workers who lose their
jobs to foreign competition. President Barack Obama submitted
legislation on Oct. 3 after House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, said he would consider the worker assistance in
tandem with the trade deals. The House voted 307-122 to pass the
worker-aid legislation.  The House and Senate debated the agreements as South Korean
President Lee Myung-Bak visited Washington. Lee is scheduled to
address Congress tomorrow.  “The trade bills we’ll be voting on tonight are a start,”
Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky  said on the
floor. “There’s no reason we should have had to wait nearly
three years for this president to send them up to Congress for a
vote, but they’re a good start nonetheless.”  Colombia Opposition  The House voted 278-151 for the South Korea agreement,
300-129 for the  Panama  deal and 262-167 to pass legislation on
the Colombia accord.  Richard Trumka , president of the AFL-CIO, the nation’s
largest federation of labor unions and a frequent Democratic
ally, had urged lawmakers to oppose the Colombia deal, saying
the nation remains the world’s most dangerous for workers.
Fifty-one Colombian union members were killed last year, up from
47 in 2009, according to the National Union School, a labor-
rights organization based in Medellin, Colombia.  The South Korea deal, the biggest since the North American
Free Trade Agreement, would boost U.S. exports by as much as
$10.9 billion in the first year in which it’s in full effect,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission. The accord
with Colombia would increase exports by as much as $1.1 billion
a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  