-- 
Convicted King of Class Actions Bill Lerach Builds Aviary, Regrets Nothing

-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-10-12T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/convicted-king-of-class-actions-bill-lerach-builds-aviary-regrets-nothing.html
Bill Lerach, the convicted felon
once labeled the lawyer who brought corporate America to its
knees, was giving a tour of his six-acre estate when he noticed
pots of bamboo lined up at the end of the driveway.  Not far from the tennis court at his mansion north of  San
Diego , the disbarred multimillionaire attorney who pioneered
securities class-action suits was building an exotic-bird aviary
for toucans, hornbills and parrots. The bamboo would be planted
to hide poles holding up the enclosure’s net.  “Boy, that stuff is bigger than I thought,” he said as he
inspected the bamboo. “That’s good.”  These days, most things are good for the 65-year-old
Lerach, who pleaded guilty in 2007 to a $251 million client-
kickback scheme.  Having left prison 19 months ago, he’s in a retirement many
might envy. On most days, he spends hours tending the
boysenberry bushes, blueberries, fruit trees and vegetable
garden spread among the lush greenery surrounding his $24
million Italianate home. The house is perched 250 feet above the
 Pacific Ocean .  Lerach is best known for leading investor litigation that
achieved a record $7.2 billion settlement with alleged enablers
of Enron Corp.’s historic 2001 collapse, the biggest bankruptcy
ever when it was filed. A decade later, he gives an occasional
speech, hosts fundraisers at his La Jolla home, guides art
students through his museum-quality collection of tribal art,
reads and travels. Since his release, he has taken a six-week
European vacation, gone fly-fishing in  Alaska  and hiked up  Mount
Kilimanjaro  on a three-week trip to Africa.  Term of Isolation  While behind bars, Lerach didn’t suffer much, he said,
except for a stint in “the hole” for offering a gift to a
guard that was interpreted as a bribe.  He did some sweeping as his official prison job, while
sharing magazines as a loose sort of currency, a favor inmates
returned by doing chores such as making his bed. A former Hells
Angels motorcycle gang leader served as an unofficial guardian
during much of his prison term, he said.  By the time he got out, he was  barred  from the profession
to which he had devoted his life. Still, he said, he has no
regrets for the path he took that put him behind bars.  “I wouldn’t change anything I did,” he said. “I’m proud
of my life and what we achieved for people.”  Lerach was feared by executives, accountants and bankers
because of the  securities fraud  settlements he was able to
extract. In addition to Enron, his firms won multibillion- and
multimillion-dollar settlements from firms including Cendant
Corp., Qwest Communications International Inc. and Dynegy Inc.  Targeted by Congress  His work, and that of his partner Melvyn Weiss, helped
provoke Congress to pass the Private Litigation Securities
 Reform Act  of 1995 to rein them in.  Republican staffers and some reporters called it the “get
Lerach act,” according to the 2010 book “Circle of Greed: The
Spectacular Rise and Fall of the Lawyer Who Brought Corporate
America to Its Knees,” by journalists Patrick Dillon and Carl
M. Cannon.  Their law firm, Milberg, Weiss, Bershad, Hynes & Lerach
LLP, dominated class-action suits by investors claiming they
were defrauded or misled about the value of a company’s shares.
The firm is now called Milberg LLP.  In the Enron case, Lerach sued lenders as well as the
company, alleging that banks helped executives manipulate the
company’s books to hide debt and inflate earnings.  Bicoastal Firm  Weiss headed the  law firm ’s main office in  New York . Lerach
built the West Coast outpost in San Diego before striking out on
his own in 2004 to start Lerach Coughlin Stoia and Geller LLP.
It’s now Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP.  Lawyers from law firms that included Weiss and Lerach were
among counsel in 43 percent of the 755 securities class action
settlements from 1995 to 2005, according to the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce. The firm closest to them was involved in about 8
percent of settlements.  Prosecutors said the successes of Weiss and Lerach were won
in part by illegal conduct: paying clients and lying about it in
court declarations. If the courts had known of the kickbacks to
clients, the firms would have been barred from the cases, the
federal judge who sentenced Lerach said.  Lerach was unrepentant in an interview, referring to the
payments as “a defect” in his work.  “We chose to lead a life in a certain way, at a certain
level of confrontation, and in most respects it was enormously
successful,” Lerach said. “But it had a defect in it that was
exploited by people who were happy to go after us.”  Money for Victims  His approach produced billions of dollars of recovery for
defrauded investors, including public pension funds, he said.
His lawsuits imposed a “sense of accountability” on errant
executives and “made people feel good that there was somebody
fighting for them,” he said.  Matt Webb, a senior vice president at the Chamber’s
Institute for Legal Reform, took the opposite view, claiming
Lerach and his firm used stock price fluctuations and fear “to
extort billions of dollars.”  Lerach, whose firm amassed multimillion-dollar war chests
to finance their litigation, said the congressional backlash
might not have happened if he and Weiss had stayed “below the
radar” with simple, sue-and-settle cases. They would have made
lots of money, but they wanted to expand the fraud law, he said.  For all his corporate detractors, Lerach had fans. Before
sentencing, some 160 people including U.S. Senator  Carl Levin , a
Michigan Democrat, and consumer advocate  Ralph Nader  wrote
letters supporting him.  No Successor  “There’s nobody on the scene like him today,” said
Patrick Coughlin, a former partner, of Lerach. “Big companies,
no matter who they are, feared us when they got sued because
they knew that he was going to be relentless.”  Webb agreed, saying the “fear factor” of getting on the
wrong side of a suit brought by Lerach or Weiss “was enough to
make a company think about settling just to make it go away.”  Lerach earned an average of $10.3 million a year from 1990
to 1998, according to “Circle of Greed.” The San Diego
Business Journal estimated in 2007 that he was  worth
$900 million . The book put the number at $700 million. Lerach
declined to discuss his net worth or pay.  The former securities lawyer pleaded guilty to a single
conspiracy count and was ordered to pay $8 million in fines and
forfeitures. He was required to do 1,000 hours of community
service and is serving a two-year probation term that ends in
March.  Lerach lived for 12 months of his term in a low-security
prison near  Safford, Arizona , about 130 miles northeast of
Tucson. He served alongside drug kingpins, gang members and
other inmates doing long sentences.  No Danger  He said he never felt in danger, in part because his age
earned him prisoners’ respect. Aside from his unofficial
guardian, other inmates, including one nicknamed King Kong, made
sure he was escorted when walking around the prison at night.  “I was treated very, very nicely by everybody, with the
exception of the white-power guys, who didn’t like me because I
hung out with black guys,” Lerach said.  Lerach slept in barracks that held 50 men in bunk beds,
except for three months he said he spent in isolation. The
officer who thought he was trying to bribe him with San Diego
Chargers tickets “took it the wrong way,” Lerach said. He was
in a cell with a metal toilet and desk attached to the floor. He
had no visitors, no mail and virtually no human contact.  The library is where Lerach spent much of his prison time,
along with  Greg Domey , the former  Hells Angels  member.  Intimidating Ally  Domey was serving a 20-year sentence for dealing in
methamphetamines and cocaine, according to the Boston Herald. He
is “a real intimidating guy,” Phil Muollo, a drug agent who
infiltrated the group, told the British Broadcasting Corp.  To Lerach, Domey was a “nice fellow” with whom he spent
evenings writing letters and talking about prison life. Lerach
said he and his wife helped Domey’s girlfriend get interviews
for a hairdresser job in San Diego.  The ex-lawyer said he tried to help fellow inmates when he
could with what he knew. Simple problems that most on the
outside could easily resolve stymied some of them, such as how
to get a Social Security card, he said.  Lerach said he subscribed to so many magazines and
newspapers and received so much mail and so many books that the
daily haul filled a Postal Service carrying box. He gave
publications to fellow inmates, some of whom returned the favor
by doing chores for him.  “It’s something that gives you a little cachet and I think
helps make friends,” he said.  Injured Veterans  Released from custody in March 2010, Lerach said he
completed his community service by advising a program that helps
war-injured veterans set up and run businesses.  While on probation, he must ask permission to leave the
country, as he did for his overseas trips. Until March, he can’t
communicate with other felons without permission. He said he
hasn’t talked with Weiss, who spent a year in prison and is on
probation.  John C. Coffee Jr., a Columbia University securities law
professor, called it a “delicious irony” that the two men’s
firms fared better than their competitors after passage of the
securities reform act intended to restrict them.  Before the 1995 statute, law firms won control of massive
litigation by being first to sue after a company’s stock dropped
and triggered suspicions of fraud. As lead counsel, they
garnered the lion’s share of the legal fees.  Racing to Court  The “race to the courthouse door” worked well for firms
like Milberg Weiss, with stables of clients who owned shares in
huge companies susceptible to such litigation. Paying clients
helped Milberg Weiss win the race, prosecutors said.  “Something’s wrong with litigation when the lawyers hire
the clients rather than the clients hiring the lawyers,” said
Coffee. “A 100-share plaintiff is just a bought and paid client
of the firm,” unlikely to act as a check on attorney conduct,
he said.  The reform act calls for the largest shareholder suing a
company for securities fraud to lead class actions. It forces
plaintiffs to be more specific than was the case previously
about the details of the alleged fraud. Such an investigation
requires time and money that some lawyers can’t afford.  Lerach and Weiss satisfied the law by investing in research
and developing alliances with institutional clients, such as
pension funds, that were often the largest stakeholders.  “They did raise the caliber of securities litigation,”
Coffee said. “For a time at least, they were head and shoulders
above their competitors.”  Lerach left his firm before his biggest case, Enron, was
over. He was behind bars when a Houston judge approved the
attorney fees in the case -- $688 million plus interest.  Enron Share  The attorney’s former partners won court approval to give
him his share, estimated to be as much as $70 million by the
authors of “Circle of Greed.”  When not traveling, Lerach throws fundraising events with
his fourth wife and former law partner, Michelle Ciccarelli
Lerach, who owns Cups, an organic-cupcake shop in  La Jolla .  In June, they hosted their second annual  “Berry Good
Night, ” which brought together organic farmers and chefs for
food and wine. They have raised money to send high school
students to  Ghana  to deliver computer equipment, he said.  Lerach keeps up with politics. He gave almost $1.5 million
to mostly Democratic candidates and groups in the past decade,
none since last year. The donations slowed to a trickle after
some candidates returned his money as the allegations against
him emerged, according to campaign finance reports.  Barney Frank   Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who
was then chairman of the House Financial Services Committee,
returned $2,300 in 2007.  Presidential candidate  John Edwards , a former trial lawyer
and Senate Democrat, returned $2,300 in 2008 after Lerach was
sentenced, and before Edwards’ own legal case began. In an
unrelated matter, Edwards was indicted in June and accused of
using illegal campaign contributions to hide an extramarital
affair. He pleaded not guilty.  Lerach said he wouldn’t be meeting with President  Barack Obama  during a presidential trip to San Diego, as he might have
in the old days.  “I’m damaged goods,” Lerach said.  This summer he took friends and family members, plus his
Chihuahua, Tommy, on a 44-day tour of  Europe , using an itinerary
he planned while in prison. Prosecutors opposed it, but a judge
let him go. In September, he made it more than halfway up
Tanzania’s  Kilimanjaro .  High on Kilimanjaro  “Around 15-16,000 feet,” he wrote in an e-mail at the
time. “Views and nite sky defy description. Wonderful plants,
trees, monkeys.”  Before he left for  Africa , Lerach gave a breakfast speech
to 100 San Diego executives and professionals, warning of what
he called an ignored crisis: how deregulation, Wall Street greed
and a loosening of fiduciary standards are ruining public
pension funds. He gives the speech, complete with slide show,
whenever asked.  Sometimes he gives law school students a lecture he calls
“The Life and Times of Bill Lerach.” He said it has war
stories and “a moral, cautionary tale.”  The case is U.S. v. Lerach, 07-00964, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ann Woolner  in Atlanta at   awooolner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net  