-- 
Copper Rises to Two-Week High on Speculation Europe Will Stem Debt Crisis

-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-10-12T21:03:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/copper-in-london-rebounds-as-base-metals-rally-after-china-stocks-surge.html
Copper futures rose to a two-week
high amid investor optimism that  Europe  will contain its
sovereign debt crisis.  European and U.S. equities rose, and the euro climbed to a
three-week high against the dollar and the yen as European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  called for a “coordinated
approach” to recapitalize the region’s banks. Germany and
France have pledged to draw up a plan by early November.  “We will be moving higher over the very short term, teeing
off the better tone in the equity markets and cautious optimism
that some sort of comprehensive package will come out of
Europe,”  Edward Meir , a senior commodity analyst at MF Global
Holdings Ltd. in Darien, Connecticut, said in a report.  Copper futures for December delivery gained 3.1 percent to
close at $3.3935 a pound at 1:24 p.m. on the Comex in  New York .
Earlier, the price reached $3.4115, the highest for a most-
active contract since Sept. 28.  The metal has climbed 13 percent from a 14-month low of
$2.994 on Oct. 3.  At the end of last year, domestic stockpiles in  China , the
world’s biggest metals buyer, totaled 1.9 million metric tons,
the Financial Times reported today, citing the China Non-Ferrous
Metals Industry Association.  “I am not surprised by the number,” Catherine Virga, the
director of research at CPM in New York, said in a telephone
interview. She had estimated it to be at least 1.63 million
tons.  “Traders bought more copper when arbitrage trades became
more profitable,” Virga said.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months rose 3.2 percent to $7,525 a metric ton ($3.41 a pound).  Aluminum, zinc, lead, nickel and tin also gained in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  