-- 
Cotton Falls on Bigger U.S. Crop Outlook; Orange Juice Advances

-- B y   B l a i r   E u t e n e u e r
-- 
2011-10-12T19:49:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/cotton-falls-on-bigger-u-s-crop-outlook-orange-juice-advances.html
Cotton futures fell the most in
almost three weeks after the U.S. government raised its crop
forecast. Orange juice gained.  Farmers will produce 16.608 million bales of cotton in the
harvest that began in August, 0.3 percent more than projected in
September, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said today in a
report. Output gains in California, Mississippi and Georgia are
making up for losses in Texas, where crops were damaged by the
worst drought in more than 100 years. The USDA also cut its
forecast for exports by the U.S., the world’s largest shipper.  “There’s more supply and less demand,”  Keith Brown , the
president of Keith Brown & Co., a broker in Moultrie, Georgia,
said in a telephone interview. “Global inflation is affecting
foodstuffs, and people will go to that before they go to
cotton.”  Cotton for December delivery slumped 2.9 percent to settle
at $1.0051 a pound at 2:36 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York ,
the biggest decline since Sept. 22. The fiber has tumbled 54
percent from a record $2.197 on March 7.  U.S. exports will total 11.5 million bales, down 4.2
percent from last month’s forecast of 12 million bales and 20
percent lower than shipments in the previous year, the USDA
said. Each bale weighs 480 pounds (218 kilograms).  Prices also may be lower on concern that demand will fall 
in  China , the largest user and importer, Brown said.  The  U.S. Senate  passed a bill aimed at punishing China for
keeping the yuan undervalued. Chinese officials said the measure
risks damaging trade relations and undermining the global
recovery.  The yuan’s slow gain against the dollar is hindering growth
and “blocking what might be a normal recovery process in the
global economy,” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
last week. House Speaker John Boehner today said he has “grave
concerns” with the bill because it may start a trade war.  Orange-juice  futures for November delivery gained 1 percent
to $1.63 a pound in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blair Euteneuer in Chicago at 
 beuteneuer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  