-- 
Credit Managers for Manufacturers See Less U.S. Recession Risk

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-10-12T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/credit-managers-dealing-with-manufacturers-show-lower-u-s-recession-risk.html
The U.S. manufacturing industry
rebounded in September from its lowest level since December
2009, helping to defy concerns about a double-dip recession.  The Credit Managers’ Manufacturing Index rose last month to
53.3 from 52.1 in August, as its gauge of sales jumped to the
highest since April, according to the National Association of
Credit Management’s monthly survey of 600 executives.  The increases represent a “vast improvement,” said Chris
Kuehl, economic adviser for the Columbia, Maryland-based
association. “The doldrums that sank the manufacturing
community in the summer appear to be lifting.”  The  Industrial Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLI)  also is stabilizing
after a “significant breakdown,” said Michael A. Gayed, chief
investment strategist at Pension Partners LLC. The exchange-
traded fund -- which includes  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  and  3M
Co. (MMM)  -- fell 22 percent between July 1 and Aug. 18, compared with
a 14 percent fall for the SPDR Standard & Poor’s 500 ETF,
Bloomberg data show.  Since then, the industrial fund has risen 6 percent,
compared with 5 percent for the S&P fund.  Following this summer’s underperformance of industrials
relative to the broader market, the sector may be poised to
outperform again, said Gayed, whose New York firm oversees $140
million in assets. That’s because investors have discounted an
economic slowdown that’s “too extreme” as prospects for a
recession grow less likely, he said.  Credit managers offer a leading indicator of the
manufacturing industry because “they live in the future,”
forecasting whether their customers can pay invoices as many as
four months from the survey date, Kuehl said.  ‘Big Bounce Back’  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index
also rebounded in September after falling the prior month to the
lowest since July 2009. Following two consecutive months of
decline, the “big bounce back” indicates the modest U.S.
recovery is “still alive,” said Ellen Zentner, senior U.S.
economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York.  These indexes “track the broader economy fairly well,”
and last month’s improvements demonstrate that manufacturing
activity is holding steady, Zentner said. Even during a
“horrific” August, both indexes remained above 50, indicating
growth. This “showed amazing resilience in the face of a storm
of negative impacts to the  U.S. economy .”  The credit managers’ index indicates demand for new
machinery is beginning to “pick up steam,” said Kuehl, who is
also the economist for the Fabricators & Manufacturers
Association. The Rockford, Illinois-based organization is co-
sponsoring next month’s FABTECH,  North America ’s largest metal-
forming, fabricating and welding conference, which is forecast
to set an attendance record, he said.  ‘Ready to Buy’  “Several manufacturers are already anticipating it will be
one of their best-selling shows since 2007,” Kuehl said. More
than 36,000 people have registered, up from last year’s 27,000,
“a sign people are ready to buy.”  Bystronic Inc.  will spend at least 50 percent more
exhibiting at this year’s conference than in 2009 because
“we’re having a good year,” said President Robert St. Aubin.
The Elgin, Illinois-based manufacturer’s unit orders through
August are up about 85 percent this year, compared with about 75
percent for the entire sheet-metal industry, he said.  The company, a subsidiary of Switzerland-based Bystronic
Laser AG, makes  machine tools  for a “very diverse” client base
that includes  Deere & Co. (DE)  and Case New Holland Inc., St. Aubin
said. As a result, its order activity tends to be a “canary in
the  coal mine ” for the broader economy.  ‘Rather Steady’ Orders  Orders for laser-cutting equipment also have “remained
rather steady” for the past 14 months at  Mazak Optonics Corp. ,
another exhibitor at FABTECH, said President Bill Citron. The
Elgin-based manufacturer, a division of  Japan ’s Yamazaki Mazak
Corp., sees no indication of deteriorating demand from customers
including agricultural, mining and construction businesses -- a
“microcosm of the economy,” he said.  “Companies are looking at what growth plans are going to
be and will make plans irrespective” of where the stock market
is trading, Citron said. While the number of units sold for the
fabricating-machinery industry as a whole was “fairly
mediocre” in 2010, this year has “really taken off,” he said.  Total company orders at  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)  “continued to
reflect strength,” rising as much as 15 percent in the three
months ending in August compared with last year, the St. Louis-
based maker of electrical products said in a Sept. 20 statement.  Lingering Weakness  There’s still some lingering vulnerability in the
manufacturing industry, according to Nomura’s Zentner. New
orders were unchanged from August, and an increase in production
was “propped up” by a drawdown in the backlog of orders, she
said.  “Some of the forward-looking indicators suggest there’s
still weakness ahead,” Zentner said. “We’re not out of the
woods yet.”  July and August “were very concerning” for  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON) ’s Automation and Control Solutions division,
Roger Fradin, president and chief executive officer of the
 Morris Township , New Jersey-based business unit said at a Sept.
27 conference hosted by Oppenheimer & Co. Still, September was
“much better” and “industrial markets are doing just fine,”
he said.  As manufacturers including Honeywell’s safety-products unit
prepare their exhibits for prospective buyers in  Chicago  next
month, Bystronic’s St. Aubin expects his company will “get a
significant return on investment” in terms of future sales.  “From our perspective, there’s no sign of a double-dip
recession,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  