-- 
Dealing With Yemen, U.S. Should Remember the Cole: Ali H. Soufan

-- B y   A l i   H .   S o u f a n
-- 
2011-10-12T00:03:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/dealing-with-yemen-terrorists-u-s-should-remember-the-cole-ali-soufan.html
Anwar al-Awlaki may be dead, but the
two terrorists in  Yemen  most deserving of U.S. retribution
remain alive and well.  They are  Jamal al-Badawi  and  Fahd al-Quso , two al-Qaeda
members who in 2000 confessed to U.S. investigators their roles
in the bombing of the USS Cole, which occurred 11 years ago
today. The attack on the U.S. Navy destroyer, at the Yemeni port
city of Aden, left 17 sailors dead and almost 40 injured.  The two were convicted for their part in the Cole bombing
by a Yemeni court in 2002, after the U.S. government decided not
to press for extradition. Since then, they’ve gone through a
cycle of repeatedly “escaping” from jail, being rearrested
and, eventually, receiving clemency. Quso is today helping to
coordinate al-Qaeda’s activities in the country.  Yemen is complex, and for 33 years President Ali Abdullah Saleh has maintained power by playing a balancing game that
involves manipulating political factions, tribal alliances and,
on many occasions, Islamic extremists. That helps explain why
the Yemeni government has turned a blind eye to Badawi and Quso.
But it doesn’t explain the U.S. government’s inaction.  Although both men have been indicted in federal court in
 New York  and the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  has placed them
on its Most Wanted Terrorists list (with a $5 million bounty on
their heads), few U.S. officials have shown any real desire to
apprehend them. The reason is that the Cole bombing is the case
that many in Washington would rather forget.  When my partner, Special Agent Robert McFadden of the Naval
Criminal Investigative Service, and I interrogated Quso in early
2001, besides confessing his role in the Cole bombing, he told
us about a mission he undertook in January 2000 for a key Osama bin Laden aide named Walid bin Attash (who is generally known as
Khallad). Quso said that, with another operative, he had
transported $36,000 from Yemen to Bangkok and given it to
Khallad.  Investigating that claim led us first to the  Washington 
Hotel in Bangkok, where Quso had stayed, and then to a phone
booth in  Malaysia , which Khallad had used to contact Quso. We
asked others in the U.S. intelligence community what they knew
about the meetings and the travel a year earlier, and each time
they said they didn’t have any information.  The day after the Sept. 11 attacks, we learned that wasn’t
true: Other intelligence agencies were aware of Quso and
Khallad’s movements in early 2000. Worse, it turned out that the
meeting in Malaysia was al-Qaeda’s Sept. 11 planning summit.
After Khallad received the $36,000 from Quso, two men he had
traveled with from Malaysia to Bangkok, Khalid al-Mihdhar and
Nawaf al-Hazmi, purchased first-class tickets to  San Diego . On
9/11, they crashed American Airlines Flight 77 into the
Pentagon.  In the period after the attacks, we also learned from
detainees at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, that al-Qaeda terrorists
viewed the U.S. as being weak for failing to respond to the Cole
bombing, which in turn inspired them to initiate more attacks.
Images of the Cole bombing played a major role in al-Qaeda
propaganda tapes and recruitment efforts.  Why didn’t the U.S. respond? By Oct. 29, 2000, when the
damaged ship was towed out of Aden harbor, we were aware that
al-Qaeda was behind the attack. The outgoing Bill Clinton
administration, however, was distracted by internal problems and
didn’t act, and the incoming George W. Bush administration also
ignored the case.  At one point during our investigations, a visiting official
from Washington told us that the Bush White House didn’t want
al-Qaeda blamed for the Cole attack because it didn’t want to be
pressured into taking action against the group in  Afghanistan .
The deputy secretary of defense, Paul Wolfowitz, later told the
 9/11 Commission  that the Cole attack was “stale.” The families
of the dead U.S. sailors were not permitted to meet with the
president.  In the end, it doesn’t matter whether the U.S. failure to
respond inspired al-Qaeda to bigger things. We owe it to the
dead sailors and their families, and to future generations of
American servicemen and women, to ensure that no American death
goes unpunished.  I will never forget visiting the damaged Cole after I
landed in Yemen, and seeing bodies draped in American flags
lying on the blood-stained deck, while those still alive -- many
with cuts and bruises -- fought to prevent the ship from
sinking. It pains all of us involved in that investigation that
two of the terrorists behind it are still free -- especially in
a country that receives millions of dollars in aid.  (Ali H. Soufan, a former FBI supervisory special agent, was
the case agent for the USS Cole investigation. He is the chief
executive officer of the Soufan Group, an international
strategic consulting group, and the author of “The Black
Banners: The  Inside Story  of 9/11 and the War Against al-
Qaeda.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ali H. Soufan at  media@soufangroup.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 