-- 
Denmark Tells Banks Facing Insolvency to Prepare Auction Plans

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-10-12T08:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/denmark-tells-banks-facing-insolvency-to-prepare-auction-plans.html
Denmark ’s bank winding-up agency is
telling struggling lenders to seek its help before they collapse
as the government steps up efforts to push through takeovers to
ensure the country doesn’t experience more bail-ins.  The Financial Stability Company will assist banks facing
insolvency in cleaning up their accounts to make them more
attractive for potential bidders, the Copenhagen-based agency’s
Chief Executive Officer Henrik Bjerre-Nielsen said. The measure
will save acquiring banks some due diligence work and spur
takeovers needed to avoid triggering senior creditor losses, he
said.  “If bank management feels they are in a vulnerable
situation, they can prepare by getting the necessary data to
have a speedy and well-prepared auction process,” Bjerre-
Nielsen said in an interview.  The Oct. 8 failure of  Max Bank (MAX)  A/S was the first to test
Denmark’s consolidation bill, passed last month in an effort to
sidestep the country’s bail-in laws. The risk of more bail-ins
remains unless takeovers can be engineered more efficiently.
While Sparekassen Sjaelland A/S stepped in at the last minute to
buy parts of Max Bank, the auction process for failed banks
still needs some refining, Bjerre-Nielsen said. Denmark doesn’t
need more than 15 to 20 banks, according to Financial
Stability’s Chairman Henning Kruse Petersen.  “Max Bank didn’t have a contingency plan, though they were
in dialogue with the Financial Supervisory Authority,” Bjerre-
Nielsen said. “We were able to find a solution in a specific
case. We cannot guarantee that we can do it all the time.”  Credit Events  Denmark adopted its bail-in law in October 2010. Four
months later, Amagerbanken A/S became the first bank to fail
under the new legislation, triggering the European Union’s first
senior creditor losses within a resolution framework. Fjordbank
Mors A/S in June was the second bank to be wound down under the
bill, inflicting further losses on senior bondholders.  The credit events have left most of Denmark’s roughly 120
banks cut off from funding markets. Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded six Danish lenders in May, including the country’s
biggest Danske Bank A/S, citing an absence of state support.  Lawmakers in September passed the consolidation bill, which
subsidizes takeovers in an effort to ensure troubled lenders
aren’t forced to resort to the country’s resolution framework.  Even though Max Bank’s failure didn’t trigger more senior
bondholder losses, creditors may wait before investing in Danish
banks again.  ‘Knocking on the Door’  “It doesn’t mean that foreign funding will be knocking on
our door tomorrow,” said Thomas Hovard, head of credit research
at Danske Markets. “But we can be a bit more optimistic about
the future.”  The FSA has warned troubled lenders it will conduct random
inspections to ensure solvency ratios and writedown levels
reflect the actual risk in a bank’s operations. When the
regulator decides a bank’s reported solvency ratio is too low,
it informs the Financial Stability Company. The agency then has
48 hours to decide whether the bank can be bought or whether it
needs to be wound down under Denmark’s bail-in bill. The process
is typically conducted over a weekend.  Any delays would prompt depositors and other clients to
close their accounts in search of a healthier rival, Bjerre-
Nielsen said. That would in turn frighten off potential bidders
as the assets in the troubled bank are depleted.  “The best customers don’t want to belong to banks owned by
us,” he said. “If they already, on Sunday or Monday, can see
that there has been a rather good solution, the assumption is
that they’ll stay with the banks. That’s a very important trick
in the whole process.”  Good Indicator  Sparekassen Sjaelland will take over Max Bank’s healthy
parts while the state will assume the bank’s bad loans. Under
the consolidation bill, the transaction will be subsidized by
Denmark’s guarantee fund. Senior creditors will be spared, while
shareholders will lose their investments.  “It’s a good indicator that a smaller bank such as
Sparekassen Sjaelland can manage to do this,” said Claus Groen Therp, an analyst at SEB Enskilda Securities. “It indicates
there are smaller banks with fairly good  capital ratios .”  There’s no guarantee that the new consolidation measures
will be used again, Bjerre-Nielsen said. Max Bank had few senior
creditors, making its resolution relatively simple, he said.  “Each banking failure, or avoidance of losses for senior
creditors, is always a specific event,” Bjerre-Nielsen said.
“I don’t think it’s possible to come to any general
conclusion.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Frances Schwartzkopff in
Copenhagen at   fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Tasneem
Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  or Angela
Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  