-- 
Detroit Tigers Defeat Rangers, Trail Texas 2-1 in AL Championship Series

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-10-12T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/detroit-tigers-defeat-rangers-trail-texas-2-1-in-al-championship-series.html
Doug Fister pitched 7 1/3 innings
 and the  Detroit  Tigers beat Texas 5-2 to pull within a
game of the Rangers in the American League Championship Series.  Victor Martinez , Jhonny Peralta and  Miguel Cabrera  hit solo
home runs for the Tigers, who trail two games to one in the
best-of-seven series. Game 4 is today at Comerica Park in
Detroit.  Fister allowed two runs on seven hits and struck out three.
Jose Valverde got the save, giving up one hit and striking out
one in the ninth inning.  “They came out firing,” Fister said in a televised
interview. “We stuck with our game plan.”  Ian Kinsler scored for Texas in the first inning on Josh Hamilton’s single.  Martinez hit a home run in the fourth, Cabrera drove in
Austin Jackson with a double in the fifth and Peralta hit his
homer in the sixth off starter  Colby Lewis . Jackson also drove
in a run in the sixth with a single off reliever Koji Uehara as
the Tigers took a 4-1 lead.  Cabrera ended the Tigers’ scoring in the seventh with a
home run, before Yorvit Torrealba crossed home plate on
Kinsler’s groundout to second in the eighth for the Rangers.  Lewis surrendered four runs on eight hits in 5 2/3 innings
and struck out six.  Texas won the first two games at Rangers Ballpark in
Arlington, Texas, before the series shifted to Detroit for three
games. If necessary, the teams will go back to Arlington this
weekend.  The National League Championship Series is tied at one game
apiece between the  Milwaukee Brewers  and the  St. Louis
Cardinals . The teams play Game 3 tonight in St. Louis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  