-- 
Dimpledough, Netflix, Beyonce, AK: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-10-12T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/dimpledough-netflix-beyonce-ak-steel-intellectual-property.html
Dimpledough Inc., one of 15
companies sued for patent infringement by a U.K. company that
specialized in credit-card design, said it shouldn’t be among
the defendants.  Serverside Group Ltd. , based in  London , sued in federal
court in  Delaware  in June, claiming Dimpledough and the other
companies infringed two patents relate to computerized card
production. In dispute are patents 7,931,199, issued April 26,
and 7,946,490, issued May 24.  In a  statement  yesterday, Independence, Ohio-based
Dimpledough said that the scope of the suit “cannot include
Dimpledough’s gift card technology offerings or any of its other
products and services.”  “Customization techniques have been used across many
industry verticals for years, several vendors provide card
customization, and we are confident that our technology is
proprietary and also very different from what Serverside
patented,” the company said.  In its suit, Serverside seeks money damages, litigation
costs and attorney fees, and an order barring infringement.  The case is Serverside Group Ltd. v. CIP Card Group-
Minnesota Inc., 1:11-cv-00559-PD, U.S. District Court, District
of Delaware (Wilmington).  Wilson Claims Textured Football Lace Patent Infringed  Amer Sports Oyj (AMEAS) ’s Wilson Sporting Goods unit sued a
competitor for patent infringement.  PSI 91 Inc. , of Springfield,  Massachusetts , is accused of
infringing patent 7,867,116, issued Jan. 11. According to the
complaint filed yesterday in federal court in  Chicago , PSI 91
sells balls with lacing that falls within the scope of the
patent.  The patent covers footballs with lacing that has an exposed
pebbled surface, intended to make the balls easier to grip. PSI
sells  “Under Armour” footballs  with textured laces, according
to the company website.  Wilson, based in Chicago, asked the court for an order
barring further infringement of the patent, and for awards of
money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs. Claiming the
infringement is “willful and deliberate,” Wilson asked the
court to triple the damages to punish PSI 91 for its actions.  PSI 91 didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Wilson is represented by Jeffery A. Key of  Key & Associates 
of Chicago.  The case is Wilson Sporting Goods v. PSI 91 Inc., 1:11-cv-
07150, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Netflix Abandons Qwikster Shortly After Seeking Trademark  Less than one month after it filed two applications to
register “Qwikster” as trademarks, movie-rental service
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  said it abandoned plans to start the business unit
that would bear the names.  Netflix, based in  Los Gatos , California, said Sept. 18 it
would split off its by-mail video-rental service, to be named
Qwikster, while it would keep the video-on-demand business under
the Netflix name.  At that time, Netflix Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings
said the DVD and streaming operations “are becoming two quite
different businesses, with very different cost structures,
different benefits that need to be marketed differently, and we
need to let each grow and operate independently.”  The company’s three trademark applications were filed Sept.
29, according to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office.  Consumers complained about the company’s plans, and in an
Oct. 10 blog posting, Netflix said it was abandoning plans for
the separate division.  “It is clear that for many of our members two websites
would make things more difficult, so we are going to keep
Netflix as one place to go for streaming and DVDs. This means no
change: one website, one account, one password in other words,
no Qwikster,” the company said.  A third application to register Qwikster is pending,
according to the patent office database. It was filed Sept. 20
by Manhattan Entrepreneurs Group LLC of  New York .  Manhattan Entrepreneurs said it, too, would use the term
for rental of video recordings, and also for video-on-demand
services and for clothing.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Beyonce’s ‘Countdown’ Said to Contain Plagiarized Choreography  Beyonce Knowles ’ newest music video contains plagiarized
dance moves, a Belgian choreographer claimed,  according to  the
U.K.’s Guardian newspaper.  Anne Teresa De Keersmaeker  said the  “Countdown” video ,
directed by Adria Petty, contains  dance moves that are taken
from a piece  she choreographed for Thierry De Mey’s 1997 film
“Rosas Danst Rosas,” the Guardian reported.  Petty has said some of the choreography in the video
contains references to some German modern-dance performances,
according to the Guardian.  De Keersmaeker’s work itself contains references to earlier
choreography, such as Vaslav Nijinsky’s  L’Apres Midi d’un Faune ,
the newspaper reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets /Industrial Espionage  AK Steel’s Secrets Case Against Defecting Employees Dismissed  AK Steel Holding Corp. (AKS) ’s trade-secrets case against three
employees who defected to work for a unit of Essen,  Germany ’s
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)   was dismissed by a federal judge in Mobile,
 Alabama .  AK, based in West Chester Ohio, initially sued the former
employees in state court. The suit moved to federal court in
April 2010. AK claimed that the former employees -- a senior
electrical maintenance manager, a quality coordinator and a
senior process engineer -- took proprietary content with them
when they moved to the ThyssenKrupp unit in 2009.  U.S. District Judge Kristi K. DuBose disagreed with AK’s
contention that what was taken was a trade secret and that the
company was harmed by the loss. AK failed to prove it was
injured and barring the ex-employees from working for
ThyssenKrupp “would disserve the public interest,” she said.  When two of the employees left to work for ThyssenKrupp
they “truthfully disclosed to AK their intentions to work for
ThyssenKrupp without receiving any objection from AK in
return,” DuBose said.  She dismissed all charges against the three employees and
ordered each side to pay its own litigation costs.  The case is AK Steel Corp. v. Earley, 1:10-cv-00415-KD-C,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Alabama (Mobile).  AT&T’s Trade-Secrets Claims Too Broad, Public Knowledge Says  AT&T Co.’s planned $49 billion takeover of T-Mobile USA
Inc. lacks sufficient transparency because the companies are
claiming that too many elements of the deal are trade secrets, a
public interest law group said in a  letter  to the Federal
Communications Commission.  Public Knowledge, a Washington-based digital-rights group,
said that the parties are claiming “confidentially and highly
confidential protection not just for information that would put
them at a competitive disadvantage but for information that is
merely embarrassing or contrary to the publicly articulated
justifications for the proposed merger.”  The U.S. Justice Department sued in federal court in
 Washington  Aug. 31 to block the takeover. Seven states and
Puerto Rico joined the suit.  In its letter to the FCC, Public Knowledge said that a
trade secret must give its owner an economic advantage over
others. The group claims that much of what AT&T has labeled as
confidential doesn’t fit this description.  AT&T “ought to bear the burden of demonstrating that each
piece of confidential or highly confidential data fits under the
scope of a protective order,” Public Knowledge said.  The antitrust case is U.S. v.  AT&T Inc. (T) , 11-cv-01560, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  IP Moves  Bracewell & Giuliani Adds Foley & Lardner’s Spivey to IP Group  Bracewell & Giuliani LLP hired Jonathan R. Spivey for its
 intellectual-property  practice, the Austin, Texas-based firm
said in an e-mailed statement.  Spivey , a litigator, joins from Milwaukee’s Foley &
Lardner. After law school, he served as a judicial clerk for H.
Robert Mayer, former chief judge at the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Federal Circuit.  Before he was a lawyer, Spivey worked as a machine design
engineer at Hallmark Cards Inc. He also has served as a patent
examiner at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  Spivey has represented clients in the electro-mechanical,
electrical computer technology and software industries, handling
patent, copyright, trade secret and unfair-competition disputes.  He has an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering
from Prairie View A&M University, a law degree from Thurgood
Marshall School of Law, and a master’s degree in intellectual
property law from George Washington University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 