-- 
Do Men Have a Problem With Elizabeth Warren?: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-10-12T00:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/do-men-have-problem-with-elizabeth-warren-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
Some women just bug men.  Hillary Clinton  did (and still does).  Nancy Pelosi , who has replaced
Clinton as the Scary Democratic Woman in Republican fundraising
appeals, surely does. And now  Massachusetts  Senate candidate
 Elizabeth Warren  has joined the club.  Warren originated the idea of a Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, but she proved so annoying to powerful men in
Washington that she didn’t get the job of running it.
Republicans, rallying to the defense of  Wall Street , twice
called her a liar at congressional hearings last spring, and
opposition to her nomination among Republican senators was so
virulent that she never had a chance.  Yet Warren’s Republican detractors were not alone. Powerful
Democrats, including Senator Chris Dodd, the Connecticut liberal
who retired after affixing his name to the Dodd-Frank financial
reform legislation, didn’t lift a finger to help her on the
grounds that everyone knew she would never be confirmed.
President  Barack Obama  could have made a recess appointment but
didn’t, eventually nominating former Ohio Attorney General
 Richard Cordray  instead of Warren. The big boys in Washington,
including some in the White House according to author Ron Suskind, just didn’t like Warren playing in their sandbox.  So Warren, a former Harvard law professor, headed back to
Massachusetts to try to reclaim Ted Kennedy’s seat for the
Democrats. The incumbent, Republican  Scott Brown , is popular,
but, true to form, Warren is making the race interesting. At a
Democratic primary debate last week, Warren was asked how she
had paid for college. “I kept my clothes on,” Warren replied,
in a blunt reference to Brown having posed in the altogether for
Cosmopolitan magazine in 1982.  No Secret  It’s not as if Warren had revealed a secret. The photo of
the naked Brown had been well viewed during Brown’s successful
2009 campaign. Nor did Warren comment on Brown’s physique. He
would have been wise to let the comment fade away.  Brown couldn’t resist. When an interviewer later in the
week remarked that Warren had never similarly posed in the buff,
Brown blurted out, “Thank God.”  We all agree that sex has no place in politics. There are
now 17 women in the  U.S. Senate  and 73 in the  House of
Representatives , an exponential increase from just 20 years ago.
We have already had -- and lost -- the first female speaker of
the House. Clinton is the third female secretary of state since
1997; Colin Powell is the only man to have held the job in the
past 14 years.  Yet as Brown’s comment reveals, sex rises to the surface so
easily. Brown’s put-down was inherently sexual, and every woman
who heard about it recognized it for that. The episode was
reminiscent of candidate Obama saying that Clinton was
“likeable enough” during their debate prior to the 2008 New
Hampshire primary. Had Obama said it to a man, it would have
died. But there is sexual chemistry on the political stage as
elsewhere, and even bland statements that pass between man and
woman can acquire an extra charge.  Women were not amused by Obama’s crack at Clinton and,
judging by the response to Brown’s comment, they still aren’t.
While Warren has wisely held her tongue, women’s groups have
been using the episode to raise hay -- and perhaps some money. A
spokesman for Emily’s List, the pro-choice Democratic women’s
group that is raising money for Warren, said its members are
“fired up” over Brown’s remark.  Lost in the wrangling is a blatant double standard: Who
thinks that a woman who posed naked for a magazine would be
sitting in the U.S. Senate as the favorite for re-election? Look
around the chamber next time you tune into C-Span: There’s not a
Playboy centerfold in sight.  Class Warfare  Brown enlisted a couple of female Republicans to testify to
what a good guy he is, with Senator  Susan Collins  of  Maine 
advancing the ball down the field from sex to class. “It’s
wrong to mock anyone” who overcame “tough obstacles” to
success by disrobing, she said. There was a time when
Republicans covered a nude statue in the  Justice Department  lest
public morals be undermined. Now it seems nudity is equivalent
to waiting tables.  Brown pushed the anti-elitism theme. “Listen: Bottom line
is, you know, I didn’t go to Harvard,” Brown said. “I went to
the school of hard knocks. And I did whatever I had to do to pay
for school.”  For the record, Brown attended two private schools: Tufts,
down the street from Cambridge, and  Boston College . Warren went
to two public schools, the  University of Houston  and  Rutgers
University , where she worked at multiple jobs to pay her way.  Having been passed over by men in  Washington , Warren is now
working to get past a man in Massachusetts. After appearing
unbeatable, Brown is leading Warren by only 3 points in a recent
University of Massachusetts-Boston Herald  poll , with a margin of
error of 3.8 percentage points. By letting Warren’s quip get
under his skin, Brown looked worried and gave his rival a
generous boost. Before she can face Brown in a general election,
however, Warren will have to win the Democratic nomination.
She’s running against five men.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 