-- 
Dodgers, EPA Rules, Immigration, Innkeepers in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-10-12T11:50:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/dodgers-epa-rules-immigration-law-innkeepers-in-court-news.html
Los Angeles Dodgers season-ticket
holders, including the heirs of singer Frank Sinatra, urged a
judge to let Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig try to
sell the bankrupt team.  The request was among dueling court papers filed yesterday
in which Selig,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports and ticket holders lined
up against team owner Frank McCourt, who is battling to retain
control of the club.  The Dodgers claim that since McCourt bought the team in
2003 for about $325 million the club has seen record success
financially and on the field. The team wants court permission to
auction future television rights to raise enough money to exit
bankruptcy.  Fox, Selig and the Ad Hoc Committee of Season Ticket
Holders asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington,
Delaware, to say no.  The auction “appears to be self-motivated by Mr. McCourt
and his personal financial issues and not the interests of the
Dodgers and its core creditors, the season ticket holders,” the
ticket owners said.  Yesterday was the deadline for written arguments on
competing proposals that would either force McCourt to sell the
team or allow him to auction the TV rights.  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy in June after Selig
refused to approve a new television contract that McCourt
negotiated with Fox Sports, the current broadcaster.  The ticket holders want Gross to approve Selig’s motion to
strip McCourt of exclusive control of the Dodgers’ bankruptcy
case. That would allow MLB to file a reorganization plan in
which McCourt would be forced to sell the team.  For more, click here.  Lawsuit News  Cerberus, Innkeepers Trial Over Buyout Delayed Again  A trial over Cerberus Capital Management LP’s decision to
end a deal to buy 64 hotels from  Innkeepers USA Trust  was
delayed for a third time.  The trial is scheduled to begin today at 10 a.m. in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan, according to court papers filed
yesterday.  The start date was initially postponed from Oct. 10, when
two people with knowledge of settlement talks said Cerberus
might resolve the dispute by agreeing to buy the hotels at a
lower price. Innkeepers sued after Cerberus, a New York-based
private-equity firm, and  Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT)  in August sought
to cancel their $1.1 billion purchase.  The companies agreed to the sale in May and Innkeepers won
approval of its reorganization terms in June. The company, in
bankruptcy since July 2010, operates 71 hotels, including
Residence Inns, Marriott hotels and Hampton Inns.  Cerberus cited a clause in the sale agreement allowing the
buyers to back out if there was an adverse change in the lodging
company’s business or overall economy.  The lawsuit against Cerberus is Innkeepers USA Trust v.
Cerberus Four Holdings LLC, 11-02557, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The Chapter 11 case
is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, in the same court.  ABN Amro Wins Review of $267 Million Madoff Trustee Suit  ABN Amro Bank NV, the bank run by a Dutch government
agency, persuaded a U.S. district judge to take over a $267
million lawsuit brought by the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s
firm.  The trustee,  Irving Picard , sued ABN Amro’s Irish
affiliates in bankruptcy court, demanding the return of funds
they allegedly got from swap transactions with Rye Select Broad
Market XL Portfolio Ltd. Picard, who wants $400 million from
Rye, said it made leveraged investments with Madoff. U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff said the case resembled others he’s
now considering, according to a court filing.  More than 60 related lawsuits await Rakoff’s attention,
court documents show. Those and others may be affected by his
rulings on whether Picard can recoup funds protected by the so-
called safe-harbor law that governs securities transactions.  The case is Picard v. ABN Amro Bank (Ireland), 11-cv-06877,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  AT&T, U.S. Ask Judge to Deny Google Entry into T-Mobile Case  AT&T Inc. and the U.S. asked the federal judge overseeing
the government’s lawsuit seeking to block the company’s purchase
of T-Mobile USA Inc. to deny a bid by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  to enter the
case to protect its confidential data.  In separate filings in  Washington  yesterday, AT&T and the
Justice Department told U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle
that Google’s request for advance notice of possible disclosures
of “competitively sensitive” data is unnecessary and would
slow down the litigation.  AT&T said in the filing that its ability to select expert
witnesses could be harmed by Google’s proposal that non-parties
in the case get five days’ notice before confidential data is
turned over to its experts.  Last month, Google, which provided the information to the
Justice Department in its investigation of the proposed T-Mobile
deal, asked Huvelle to amend her order governing confidential
data in the case, claiming that “without such additional
protection, Google and other non-parties could find their
confidential information -- such as Google’s business plans
related to Android -- in the hands of competitors.”  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies would “substantially” reduce
competition. Seven states and Puerto Rico joined the
government’s effort to block the deal, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier.  In its filing, the Justice Department and the states said
the protective order in the case already offers Google and other
non-parties protection from confidential material being publicly
released in filings and during court proceedings.  The parties are required to file confidential data under
seal and Huvelle has the authority to close the courtroom if
such material is going to be discussed, they said.  Adam Kovacevich, a spokesman for Mountain View, California-
based Google, and AT&T spokesman Mike Balmoris didn’t
immediately respond to e-mail messages seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v.  AT&T Inc. (T) , 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials and Appeals  Alabama Opposes U.S. Bid to Delay Immigration Law for Appeal  A new Alabama immigration law empowering the police to
question the status of persons otherwise detained shouldn’t be
blocked while the U.S. government and civil-rights groups appeal
a ruling allowing its enforcement, state lawyers told a federal
appeals court yesterday.  Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn in Birmingham last month
rejected challenges to the police provision as well as other
sections of the Beason-Hammon Alabama Taxpayer and Citizen
Protection Act.  The legislation requires schools to collect data on the
enrollment of children of unlawful residents, criminalizes the
failure of those unlawfully in the U.S. to complete or carry
alien registration documents, and makes it a felony for those
illegally present to do business with the state or any of its
political subdivisions.  The judge ruled in the federal government’s case and two
others -- a parallel suit filed by the American Civil Liberties
Union and Southern Poverty Law Center, and one brought by church
leaders.  The civil-rights groups also asked the appeals court for an
order that prevents the state from enforcing those parts of the
law being fought on appeal.  Blackburn barred the enforcement of parts of the act making
it illegal for unregistered aliens to apply for jobs or work in
the state, as well as a provision making it a crime to transport
or harbor them. The state says it will appeal.  First-term Governor Robert Bentley, a Republican, signed
the legislation into law on June 9. The federal government’s
failure to enforce its own immigration laws necessitated the
measures taken by his state, he has said.  The federal government argues that only it has the
authority to set immigration policy. The rights groups contend
the new laws are unconstitutional. The clergy haven’t sought to
appeal the ruling in their case.  Separately, Indiana Attorney General Greg Zoeller, in an
unrelated ACLU lawsuit challenging his state’s new immigration
law, said he’s asking an Indianapolis federal judge to add the
U.S. as a party needed to resolve the dispute.  “This case is about what authority the states have in the
absence of federal guidance in immigration policy and
enforcement,” Zoeller said yesterday in a press statement.
“The Department of Justice should represent the federal
government and not leave it to others.”  Xochitl Hinojosa, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said
the department is reviewing Indiana’s motion.  The cases are U.S. v. State of Alabama, 11-14532, and
Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama v. Bentley, 11-14535,
U.S. 11th Circuit Court of Appeals (Atlanta).  The Indiana case is Buquer v. City of Indianapolis,
11cv708, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Indiana
(Indianapolis).  Accused Underwear Bomber Sought Martyrdom, U.S. Tells Jurors  The man accused of the Christmas 2009 attempt to blow up a
Northwest Airlines plane with explosives hidden in his underwear
wanted to be a martyr, a prosecutor told jurors yesterday as his
terrorism trial began.  Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, 24, is accused of trying to
detonate explosives in his underwear as Northwest Airlines
Flight 253, with 279 passengers and 11 crew members, approached
Detroit on Dec. 25, 2009. He set fire to his clothing and a wall
before passengers subdued him, prosecutors said. Northwest is a
unit of  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)   Abdulmutallab, who wore a bluish-gray tunic adorned with
white and gold running below his waist in Detroit federal court
yesterday, faces eight terrorism-related counts in, including
attempted murder and attempted use of a weapon of mass
destruction. Abdulmutallab, a native of Nigeria, traveled to
Yemen to become involved in a “violent jihad on behalf of al-
Qaeda” and practiced detonating explosives before the failed
attack, the U.S. claims.  The defendant, who is representing himself at the trial,
faces a life sentence if convicted. Abdulmutallab, who has
pleaded not guilty, hasn’t yet revealed his defense. His
arguments may include a claim that the explosives were
insufficient to blow up the plane, a lawyer assigned to help
Abdulmutallab at the trial has said.  Abdulmutallab said he wouldn’t deliver an opening statement
and would reserve the right to do it later.  U.S. District Judge Nancy Edmunds, who is hearing the case,
yesterday rejected a request by the defendant seeking to bar the
government from calling the materials he used a “bomb” or
“explosive device.”  A jury of three men and nine women was selected last week
for the trial before Edmunds.  The case is U.S. v. Abdulmutallab, 10-cr-20005, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  For more, click here.  EPA Cement Factory Rules Are Flawed, Industry Tells U.S. Court  U.S. rules meant to cut mercury emissions and other air
pollutants at cement plants are too restrictive and based on
flawed data, a lawyer for the industry told a federal appeals
court.  A three-judge panel in Washington heard arguments yesterday
in challenges to Environmental Protection Agency regulations set
to be enforced in 2013. The cement industry predicts the rules
may cost $3.4 billion and shutter 18 of 100 plants.  “No existing plant can achieve any of these in
combination,” said  Carter Phillips , a partner at Sidley Austin
LLP in Washington who represents the Portland Cement
Association, an industry trade group. He told the panel that the
EPA rules are “unreasonable” because they are based on
“pollutant-by-pollutant” analyses instead of the sources of
pollution as a whole.  The EPA says the cost would be no more than $950 million.  The Portland Cement Association, based in Skokie, Illinois,
is also lobbying Congress to block the EPA rules on behalf of
companies such as Cemex SAB, the largest producer of cement in
the U.S., and  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)   Last week, the U.S. House of Representatives passed
legislation that would force the EPA to scrap and rewrite the
cement plant regulations. The bill hasn’t been taken up by the
Senate. President Barack Obama’s administration issued veto
threats on Oct. 3.  At yesterday’s hearing, judges David Tatel and Janice
Rogers Brown asked Justice Department lawyers whether EPA’s
rulemaking put the cement industry in a position of making
investments that it may learn later it didn’t have to make.  Justice Department attorney Daniel Dertke said the agency
was required to issue regulations based upon the information it
had at the time.  “There has to be an end point for the EPA to issue
enforceable emission standards,” he said, adding that the rules
were “a long time coming.”  Tashiba Peoples, another department lawyer, told the judges
that Portland Cement Association commented on every proposal
before the agency and that some of those comments influenced its
decision-making.  The cases are Portland Cement Association v. EPA, 11-1358
and 11-1359, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
(Washington).  Environmental Groups Sue U.S. Over Rejected Ozone Standards  U.S. President Barack Obama’s rejection of stricter ozone
standards was challenged by environmental groups as “illegal
and irresponsible” as they asked a federal appeals court to
overturn the decision.  The organizations want the court to force the
administration to impose tighter caps on the main ingredient in
smog, according to a statement yesterday on the lawsuit, which
was filed in Washington.  Obama told the EPA last month to quash the rule after
industry representatives including the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce ,
National Association of Manufacturers and the Business
Roundtable lobbied White House officials to drop it because of
the weakened economy.  “We were counting on the administration to set ozone
standards that would protect our health but now have to go back
to court to get the protection we all deserve,” John Walke,
clean-air director for the New York-based Natural Resources
Defense Council, said in a statement on the lawsuit.  The American Lung Association, Environmental Defense Fund
and National Resources Defense Council asked the U.S. Court of
Appeals in Washington to review the administration’s decision in
a petition filed yesterday. The court has jurisdiction over
administrative rulemaking by federal agencies.  “This administration has put in place historic standards
and safeguards for clean air,” Betsaida Alcantara, an EPA
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We will revisit
the ozone standard and review the latest science in compliance
with the Clean Air Act.”  EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson told a congressional panel
last month the agency recommended a cap for ozone at 70 parts
per billion, below the level of 75 parts per billion issued in
2008 under former President George W. Bush. A scientific
advisory panel had said a limit of 60 to 70 parts per billion
was necessary to protect public health.  Jackson had called the Bush-era standard “not legally
defensible.” The EPA has told states it would begin enforcing
that regulation.  After release of the EPA’s proposed changes was delayed for
months, Obama announced Sept. 2 that the revised ozone
restrictions would be reconsidered because it was scheduled for
a routine review in 2013 and he wanted to “underscore the
importance of reducing regulatory burdens and regulatory
uncertainty.”  The case is American Lung Association v. U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, 11-1396, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia (Washington).  U.S. Supreme Court to Review Mortgage Closing Costs Case  The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to clarify the scope of a
federal law aimed at protecting home buyers from being
overcharged by companies that provide real estate settlement
services.  The justices yesterday accepted an appeal from a group of
Louisiana consumers seeking to sue Quicken Loans Inc. over fees
they paid at their mortgage closings.  The home buyers say Quicken charged as much as $1,100 in
“loan discount fees” without providing the  interest-rate 
reduction those fees typically bring.  The fight at the high court centers on a provision in the
1974 Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act that bars settlement
providers in at least some cases from collecting money for
services they didn’t perform.  The question for the justices is whether that provision
applies only when two companies split the disputed fee -- as in
the case of a kickback. A New Orleans-based federal appeals
adopted that reading of the statute in throwing out the suit
against Detroit-based  Quicken , putting it at odds with other
courts around the country.  The Obama administration urged the Supreme Court to accept
the home buyers’ appeal and overturn the lower court ruling.  Quicken said in a statement that the suit’s underlying
premise is wrong.  “It is undisputed that the loan discount points collected
in this case were earned and resulted in a lower interest rate
for the borrowers,” the company said.  Quicken is a unit of closely held Rock Holdings Inc.  The case is Freeman v. Quicken, 10-1042.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Failed Bank’s Former Executives Sued by SEC Over Hidden Losses  Three former United Commercial Bank executives misled
investors by concealing at least $65 million in loan losses
before the San Francisco-based lender collapsed in 2009, the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said.  Thomas Wu, who was the bank’s chief executive officer,
worked with chief operating officer Ebrahim Shabudin and senior
officer Thomas Yu to hide losses on loans and real estate assets
from auditors, causing UCBH Holdings Inc. to understate 2008
operating losses, the SEC said in a complaint filed yesterday in
California.  United Commercial Bank was one of the 10 largest bank
failures to result from the 2008 financial crisis, causing a
loss of $2.5 billion to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s
insurance fund, the SEC said. Craig On, the bank’s former chief
financial officer, separately agreed to pay $150,000 and a
accept five-year suspension from practicing before the SEC as an
accountant to resolve claims that he helped the fraud, the
agency said.  The “charges reflect an all too familiar pattern --
corporate executives once seen as rising stars embrace deception
to avoid losses and conceal negative news, with investors and
the FDIC insurance fund left to pick up the pieces,” SEC
Director of Enforcement Robert Khuzami said in a statement.  The U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of California
yesterday announced parallel criminal charges against former
employees of the bank, and the FDIC announced enforcement
actions against 13 individuals for violations of federal banking
regulations.  Phone calls to Steven Bauer, an attorney for Wu; James
Lassart, a lawyer for Shabudin; Stephen Kaus, a lawyer for Yu;
and Nanci Clarence, an attorney representing On, weren’t
immediately returned. On didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing in
settling the SEC’s claims.  Julius Baer Bankers Said to Be Charged in Offshore Tax Probe  Two client advisers at Swiss bank  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) 
were charged with helping U.S. customers evade taxes, according
to an indictment and a person familiar with the matter.  Daniela Casadei and Fabio Frazzetto conspired with more
than 180 U.S. clients and others at the bank to hide at least
$600 million in assets from the Internal Revenue Service,
according to the indictment in federal court in New York and the
person, who wasn’t authorized to speak about the matter. The
indictment refers to the bank as Swiss Bank No. 1.  “The bank is one of a number of Swiss financial
institutions supporting the ongoing tax negotiations between the
U.S. and Switzerland and is cooperating with the U.S. government
investigation,” Baer said in an e-mailed statement.  The charges come amid a U.S. crackdown that includes grand
jury investigations of eight foreign banks. Prosecutors have
filed tax charges against three dozen former U.S. clients of  UBS
AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s two biggest banks,
and London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest bank. At
least 21 bankers, advisers and attorneys also have been charged.  The case is U.S. v. Casadei, 11-cr-866, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 