-- 
Draghi Urges Italy to Implement Austerity to Avert Spiral

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-10-12T16:23:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/draghi-urges-italy-to-implement-austerity-to-avert-debt-spiral.html
Bank of Italy Governor  Mario Draghi 
said the country must quickly implement austerity measures and
boost economic growth to avert an “ungovernable” debt spiral.  “Action must be taken quickly,” Draghi said in a speech
in Rome today. “If protracted, the high borrowing costs seen in
the last three months could largely offset” the effects of the
austerity moves approved last month, “with a further negative
impact on the cost of debt, in a spiral that may end up being
ungovernable.”  Draghi, who on Nov. 1 takes over from  Jean-Claude Trichet 
as president of the  European Central Bank , also said that Italy
must take steps to boost economic expansion. Italian growth has
lagged behind the euro-region average for the last decade,
making it harder to reduce debt of about 120 percent of gross
domestic product, the second-largest in  Europe  after Greece.  Italy’s government got final approval last month for 54
billion euros ($73 billion) in austerity measures that helped
convince the ECB to start buying the nation’s bonds after its
borrowing costs surged to record highs. It’s imperative that
countries such as Italy meet their European fiscal commitments,
Draghi said today.  While the austerity measures have put public finances on a
more sustainable path, they’re “not enough,” Draghi added. He
called for structural changes to boost economic growth, such as
overhauling the civil justice system and education, improving
competitiveness, liberalizing the labor and services markets,
and opening up closed professions.  Italy needs “a strong growth impulse to drastically reduce
public debt,” he said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 