-- 
DuPont Said to Seek Buyers for Teijin Venture, Powder Paint Unit

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-10-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/dupont-said-to-seek-buyers-for-teijin-venture-powder-paint-unit.html
DuPont Co., the third-biggest U.S.
chemical maker, is seeking buyers for a polyester-film joint
venture and a business that makes powder-based paint, said
people with knowledge of the matter.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is advising DuPont on the sale of
DuPont Teijin Films Ltd., owned jointly by Wilmington, Delaware-
based DuPont and  Osaka , Japan-based  Teijin Ltd. (3401) , said the
people, who declined to be identified because the process is
private. Greenhill & Co. is working with DuPont on the powder-
coatings sale, the people said. The assets would likely fetch
less than $1 billion each, the people said.  The powder-coatings business is part of DuPont’s
performance-coatings operations, a unit that accounted for 12
percent of the company’s $31.5 billion in revenue last year.
 Ellen Kullman , who became chief executive officer in January
2009, has been steering DuPont toward faster-growing products
such as food enzymes and biofuel with her $7.1 billion purchase
of food-ingredient maker Danisco A/S this year.  “DuPont has made very few divestitures since Kullman took
over,”  Mark Gulley , a New York-based analyst at Ticonderoga
Securities who rates the shares “buy,” said in a telephone
interview. “This is probably overdue.”  DuPont has completed six separate sales of assets in the
past three years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One
of the deals fetched $40 million, while prices for the others
weren’t disclosed.  Solae Venture  DuPont is also considering buying the 28 percent stake it
doesn’t already own in its Solae LLC soy-products joint venture
with  Bunge Ltd. (BG) , one person said. DuPont had been seeking a
buyer for the venture since July and has now put that process on
hold while it decides whether to merge the business with
Danisco, the person said.  Danisco may have provided DuPont with the infrastructure
and expertise it needs to make Solae more profitable, Gulley
said. Combining Danisco’s dairy-focused food business with Solae
would be “very complementary” and “enable higher growth,”
Kullman said in a Jan. 10 conference call discussing DuPont’s
bid for Danisco.  DuPont and Bunge formed Solae in 2003 when they merged two
businesses. Solae makes more than 1,000 products, including soy
proteins used in hot cereals, sports drinks, vegetarian foods
and meat products. The venture employs about 2,400 people.  Liqui-Box  DuPont had expected to fetch as much as $1.75 billion for
Solae, people familiar with the matter said in August. A company
executive said in September that a sale may happen by the end of
the year, or the two partners may instead continue with the
venture.  Solae’s customers include soy-milk maker 8th Continent,
which was created as a joint venture between DuPont and General
Mills Inc. in 2000 and sold to Stremicks Heritage Foods in 2008.  Earlier this year, DuPont also hired Bank of America Corp.
to help seek buyers for a unit known as Liqui-Box, which makes
plastic packaging for food items such as ketchup and mustard,
said people with knowledge of that sale effort. DuPont bought
Liqui-Box for about $333 million in 2002.  Spokesmen from DuPont, Goldman Sachs, Greenhill and Bank of
America declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net 
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 