-- 
Health Insurers Bid to Take Elderly Poor Out of U.S. Plans

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-10-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/health-insurers-bid-to-take-over-care-for-9-million-elderly-poor-from-u-s-.html
The U.S. may save as much as $125
billion over a decade if health insurers manage care for about 9
million people now covered by Medicare because of their age and
Medicaid because they’re poor, the companies have told Congress.  America’s Health Insurance Plans, or AHIP, the Washington-
based trade group for insurers, is lobbying the congressional
supercommittee studying debt reduction to allow states to hire
health plans such as  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  to direct care for
the indigent elderly and disabled, whose medical needs now cost
taxpayers as much as $230 billion a year.  More than half of this group suffers from five or more
chronic conditions, and their care costs twice as much on
average as patients just covered by Medicare, a study published
by the insurers’ group found. The cost gap is occurring because
the programs don’t coordinate medical services, said Ken Thorpe,
the study author and chairman of health policy at Emory
University’s Rollins School of  Public Health  in Atlanta  Managed care would be “by far a better model of care, and
provide better quality, as opposed to what goes on now, which is
nothing,” Thorpe said in a telephone interview. “You’re pretty
much on your own, and there’s not much coordination at all.”  The supercommittee, created by the debt-limit law enacted
in August, is seeking about $1.5 trillion in spending cuts over
10 years. While the committee hasn’t indicated where it will
make cuts, Medicare, the U.S. health plan for the elderly and
disabled, and Medicaid, the joint U.S.-states program for the
poor, cost the nation $876 billion in 2009.  Medicare Pays Most  A person eligible for Medicare and Medicaid has most acute
medical services, such as hospitalization, doctors’ visits and
prescription drugs, paid for by Medicare. Medicaid pays for co-
payments, nursing homes and other long-term care.  Only about 100,000 of the elderly poor are now in managed-
care plans, said  Karen Ignagni , AHIP’s president and chief
executive officer. Her group’s proposal suggests that Congress
create a new medical program to replace Medicare and Medicaid
for people eligible for both, and pay insurers a per-person fee
to provide services.  If such a proposal were passed, the industry payoff “could
be in the billions,” said  Les Funtleyder , a health-care analyst
with Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York .  “There probably is plenty of opportunity in terms of
dollars saved to deal with these very sick people,” Funtleyder
said in a telephone interview. “The payoff is the delta between
what these high utilizers currently cost, and what they could
cost if they were getting ‘optimal’ care.”  Cost Concerns  The idea was opposed by  Patricia Nemore , a senior policy
attorney at the Center for Medicare Advocacy. Putting the
indigent elderly and disabled into managed care because of cost
alone concerns risks harm to them if insurers cut back on
services, she said in a telephone interview.  “There is little evidence that managed care for people who
require a lot of medical services is either very good for them
or saves much money,” Nemore said.  State lawmakers, too, may resist enrolling this group of
patients into managed care because of historical distrust of
insurers and because most savings would accrue to the federal
government, said Joy Johnson Wilson, health policy director at
the National Council of State Legislatures in  Washington , D.C.  States also would have to pay to administer the managed-
care contracts, Wilson said in a telephone interview. “There’s
really no incentive for states to save Medicare a lot of money
if it’s going to cost Medicaid a lot of money.”  Savings ‘Credit’  The AHIP proposal would be more attractive to states if the
federal government agreed to pay them a “credit” for Medicare
savings, Wilson said.  The program should be voluntary for states, Ignagni said in
a telephone interview. They could choose less dramatic forms of
managed care, for example hiring insurers to simply coordinate
services in the traditional Medicare and Medicaid systems, she
said.  “We have the skills and tools and programs that can
support better care for this population,” she said. “Quite a
lot of this is making sure people have appointments, that they
get to their appointments, that they have transportation support
and that one specialist knows what the other is doing.”  Better care coordination could reduce hospital visits, for
example, by ensuring patients don’t take drugs that cause side
effects when used in combination, said Thorpe of Emory. Medicare
pays for hospitalization, so a reduction would save money for
the federal government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim in Washington at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 