-- 
Heating Oil Rises to Three-Week High on European Debt Optimism

-- B y   B a r b a r a   J   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-10-12T19:33:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/heating-oil-rises-to-three-week-high-on-european-debt-optimism.html
Heating oil rose to a three-week
high amid optimism that  Europe  will be able to contain its debt
crisis, limiting damage to the regional economy, and as the
dollar weakened.  Futures gained as European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said the region is approaching a
consensus on resolving Europe’s debt crisis. The dollar fell 1.1
percent against the euro at 3:19 p.m. in New York, increasing
the investment appeal of commodities priced in the U.S.
currency.  “There’s a revival of optimism about the European debt
crisis,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Heating oil for November delivery rose 3.06 cents, or 1.1
percent, to settle at $2.9347 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  in the first three-day rally since August.
It was the highest settlement since Sept. 20.  The premium of heating oil to gasoline widened after a
forecast for cooler U.S. weather indicated greater demand for
heating fuel. November heating oil was 18.6 cents over the motor
fuel, up from 15.65 cents yesterday.  Parts of the U.S. Midwest and East may have low
temperatures in the 30s to 40s Fahrenheit (minus 1 to 4.4
Celsius) during the next two weeks, said  Matt Rogers , president
of the Commodity Weather Group LLC.  Colder Weather  Rogers said the Midwest may have one or two cold nights
from Oct. 17 to Oct. 21, while the cooling will reach the East
during the Oct. 22 to Oct. 26 period. Parts of the South may
also get lower temperatures next week.  “A cooler forecast for the northeast coming next week
prompted some buying for heating oil,” said Fred Rigolini, vice
president of Paramount Options Inc. in  New York .  Heating oil’s gain coincided with a broader rally in
equities and commodities as European Commission President  Jose
Barroso  called for a reinforcement of crisis-hit banks, the
payout of a sixth loan to Greece and a faster start for a
permanent rescue fund. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.4
percent at 3:19 p.m. in New York.  European industrial production rose for a second month in
August, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said today, indicating greater demand for U.S. diesel exports.
Output in the 17-nation euro area advanced 1.2 percent from
July, the biggest gain since November 2010.  Brent, Gasoil  Brent crude oil and gasoil advanced on  London ’s ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Brent oil for November delivery increased 63
cents to $111.36 a barrel. Gasoil for November delivery added
$13.25 to $918.50 per metric ton.  “If the European economy stabilizes, that influences
diesel prices,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston.  Prices also rose as refineries ran at the lowest level
since June. Operating rates probably fell 0.8 percentage point
to 86.9 percent last week, according to the median estimate of
14 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. ConocoPhillips stopped
production at its Trainer, Pennsylvania, refinery Sept. 30,
saying if it couldn’t find a buyer, the plant would be shut
permanently in six months.  The Energy Department is scheduled to report last week’s
U.S. inventories at 11 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington .  Supplies of diesel and heating oil in the U.S. probably
fell 500,000 barrels last week, according to the survey.
Gasoline stockpiles were unchanged, and crude oil inventories
rose 800,000 barrels.  Gasoline for November delivery gained 0.11 cent to settle
at $2.7487 a gallon on the exchange, the highest settlement
since Sept. 16.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.9
cent to $3.405 yesterday, according to AAA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  