-- 
Egypt Violence Piles Pressure on Army to Hand Over Power Faster

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-10-12T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/egypt-s-sectarian-killings-pile-pressure-on-army-to-hand-over-power-faster.html
Egypt ’s worst violence since the
popular revolt that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  in February
adds to pressure on the army to speed up the transfer of power
to an elected government.  Clashes between protesters, mostly Coptic Christians, and
security forces in Cairo this week left at least 25 people dead
and fueled calls for the ruling generals to change a timeline
that may allow them to stay in power until 2013. The violence
rocked the government, with Finance Minister Hazem El Beblawi
handing in a resignation that was rejected by the army council.  Egypt’s return to civilian rule starts with elections for
parliament next month. The end-date is less clear, tied to a
presidential vote that currently requires a new constitution to
be drawn up first. With  Fitch Ratings  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
already saying the prolonged transition is hurting the economy
and draining currency reserves, this week’s violence may prompt
the generals to cede power earlier than they planned.  The clashes may motivate the military “to speed up the
transition of power to a civilian authority, to respond to the
wish of the majority,” Mahmoud Ghozlan, a spokesman for the
Muslim Brotherhood, Egypt’s biggest Islamist group, said in a
telephone interview. “To drag it to the end of next year or
into 2013 is unacceptable. We are exerting pressure in this
direction.”  Thousands of mourners chanted against the rule of the
Supreme Council of the Armed Forces during a funeral for 17
protesters held Oct. 10 in the Coptic Christian Cathedral in
Cairo, the  Associated Press  reported.  Driving Into Crowds  Footage broadcast on  Al Jazeera  and local television
channels showed armored vehicles driving into crowds who were
protesting an attack on a church in southern Egypt. The army has
denied soldiers used excessive force or were responsible for the
killings.  General Mahmoud Hegazy said yesterday that the military is
looking for the perpetrators. He also said the army has no
desire to hang on to power.  “We’re the first who want to turn over governance,”
Hegazy told reporters. “But this is a big country. There must
be objective grounds for the transfer, so that it doesn’t
collapse.”  The Free Egyptians Party, co-founded by Christian
billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , warned the military council that
“continuing to handle events with force will shake the trust
that Egyptians have given it.” It called on the army to
“shoulder its responsibility to protect Christian
establishments” and said the violence was “a clear attack on
the freedom to peacefully protest.”  Stocks, Bonds Slump  Sawiris’s  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE)  is down 27 percent
this year, outperforming the  EGX 30 index. (EGX30)  The benchmark has
slumped 43 percent, the third-worst in the world after Cyprus
and Ukraine. Government borrowing costs have soared to the
highest level since 2008. The economy contracted 4.2 percent in
the first quarter and grew 0.4 percent in the following three
months.  “The longer this transition takes, the more difficult it’s
going to be for the economy,” Richard Fox, the London-based
head of Middle East and Africa Sovereigns at Fitch Ratings, said
in a telephone interview. Fitch cut Egypt’s credit rating to BB
on Feb. 3, leaving it two levels below investment grade.  Egypt scrapped plans for a $3 billion agreement with the
 International Monetary Fund  in June. The military played a role
in vetoing that loan, leaving the government dependent on local
banks to finance its  budget deficit , said David Butter, regional
head of the Economist Intelligence Unit in  London .  ‘Quite Perilous’  IMF backing “would have stabilized the balance of payments
and potentially provided the kind of assurance that would have
encouraged foreign investors,” he said. “Egypt’s foreign
exchange situation is starting to get quite perilous.”  Currency reserves have fallen by one-third this year to $24
billion.  Speeding up the transfer of power depends “on the ability
of various political forces to agree among themselves,” Samer
Soliman, assistant professor of political economy at the
American University in Cairo, said in a phone interview.  Most Egyptians welcomed the army’s takeover in February.
Some still want it to stay in power until security is restored,
said Hani Sabra, a  Middle East  analyst at Eurasia Group in  New
York . The military council “does enjoy some support as
guarantor of stability,” he said.  “The majority of the Egyptian people know exactly how
honest the army is,” General Hegazy said. “I don’t think we’ve
lost that.”  Tantawi Angers Activists  The council has yielded to public pressure in some cases
and refused to budge on others. It fired remaining Mubarak-era
ministers after demonstrations against them, and waived charges
against an activist accused of insulting the armed forces. The
army council has refused to repeal emergency law, a key demand
of protesters.  This week’s violence capped a series of incidents that
worsened relations between the military and activists who led
the revolt. Another was an Oct. 2 speech by Field Marshal Mohammed Hussein Tantawi, who heads the military council, in
which he said Mubarak didn’t order him to use force during the
uprising. Activists said that statement was an attempt to
exonerate the former president, who is standing trial on charges
of conspiring to kill protesters.  The pressure on the military to yield power started before
the sectarian violence. Six presidential hopefuls, including
former Foreign Minister  Amre Moussa , proposed April 1 as a date
for presidential elections. The current timeline risks delaying
economic recovery, Moussa said in a conference call with
analysts and journalists Oct. 5.  ‘Will Is There’  “The mood in the country will prevail and the mood in the
country is to have presidential elections” before a
constitution is in place, said Moussa, the front-runner for the
job in an April survey by Pew Research Center’s Global Attitudes
Project. “If there is a will, there is a way, and the will is
there.”  The violence may help unite political groups in an effort
to speed up the shift to democratic rule, said  Shadi Hamid ,
director of research at the Brookings Doha Center in Qatar.  “The military is going to have to give in unless it’s
willing to use full force against its own people,” he said in a
telephone interview. “They would be wise going in that
direction, to avoid tearing the country apart even further.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  