-- 
Egypt May Maintain Key Interest Rate to Help Growth After Revolt

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 
2011-10-12T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/egypt-may-maintain-key-interest-rate-to-help-growth-after-revolt.html
Egypt’s  central bank  will probably
keep its benchmark  interest rate  at the lowest level in almost
five years in a bid to bolster economic growth after the popular
uprising against  Hosni Mubarak .  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Farouk El- Okdah, will keep the overnight deposit rate at 8.25 percent, the
lowest since November 2006, when it meets today, according to
all five economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The bank usually
meets at 3 p.m. and announces the decision two hours later. It
hasn’t changed the rate since September 2009.  The Egyptian economy is struggling to recover from the
aftermath of this year’s turmoil. Gross domestic product
contracted 4.2 percent in the first quarter and rose 0.4 percent
in the following three months, according to official data. The
government’s borrowing costs have soared to the highest level
since 2008 after foreign investors slashed their holdings of
treasury bills, leaving domestic banks to buy the debt.  “On the economic side, there’s a need to keep attracting
capital flows into the country,” said  Marios Maratheftis ,
Dubai-based head of research for the  Middle East  at Standard
Chartered Bank. “Inflation is to some extent a concern but at
the same time growth needs to be maintained and also increased
so the best way forward is to keep rates unchanged.”  Economic Slump  Since the uprising, tourists have fled, foreign investors
have dumped Treasury bills and factory output has been hit by
protests and strikes. The benchmark EGX 30 stock index is down
43 percent this year. Yields on 1-year treasury bills were at
13.72 percent in an auction this week after surging 90 basis
points in the third quarter. Previous governments have said they
need growth of about 7 percent to create enough jobs for a
growing working-age population.  Inflation in urban parts of  Egypt  slowed to 8.2 percent
from 8.5 percent in May as food prices, one of the causes of the
unrest that toppled Mubarak, rose at a slower pace.  Sectarian tensions have increased amid fears by many
Christians that Islamists will have more influence in post-
Mubarak Egypt, where parliamentary elections are scheduled to
start on Nov. 28. Fighting erupted on Oct. 9 while Christians
were protesting an attack on a church in southern Egypt.  The demonstrations started peacefully and then turned
violent when protesters were attacked by men in civilian
clothing who pelted them with stones, witnesses said. They later
clashed with security forces and some were killed and injured by
gunfire. Others were run over by an armored vehicle, they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 