-- 
Egypt’s Army Defends Handling of Protests Amid Growing Economic Concerns

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-10-12T15:38:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/egypt-finance-minister-retracts-his-resignation-amid-political-confusion.html
Egypt ’s ruling military council
denied claims it killed protesters last week, amid growing
concerns over its handling of a transition to civilian rule and
the impact on the country’s ailing economy.  “Were they killed by the armed forces? Certainly not,”
General Mahmoud Hegazy told reporters today, referring to
clashes between protesters and security forces on Oct. 9 that
left at least 25 people dead. Demonstrators say some of those
were killed by gunfire and others crushed to death by a military
vehicle, in the worst violence since the popular revolt that
ousted former President  Hosni Mubarak  in February.  Finance Minister Hazem El Beblawi submitted his resignation
yesterday, citing security concerns after the deaths. His
departure would have delayed and disrupted talks with  Saudi
Arabia  and the  United Arab Emirates  for $5 billion in loans,
said Alia Moubayed, London-based senior economist at  Barclays
Capital . El Beblawi said today he was reconsidering his decision
to quit after the army rejected his resignation.  The Egyptian economy is struggling to recover from this
year’s political turmoil. Gross domestic product contracted 4.2
percent in the first quarter and rose 0.4 percent in the
following three months, according to official data. The
government’s borrowing costs have soared to the highest level
since 2008 after foreign investors slashed their holdings of
treasury bills, leaving domestic banks to buy the debt.  The day after the clashes the country’s benchmark stock
index, the EGX 30, declined 2.3 percent to the lowest level
since March 2009.  Ministerial U-Turn  El Beblawi said today it may be “more logical” for him to
stay in his position, which he has occupied for three months.
“I have resigned for political reasons but I don’t want my
resignation to have repercussions on the economy,” El Beblawi
said in a telephone interview.  The finance minister, who is also deputy premier, yesterday
said he was resigning due to a “severe breach of the security
and safety of society” after the violence, according to the
state-run Middle East  News Agency .  Adding to yesterday’s political disarray were comments by
Prime Minister Essam Sharaf, who said the Cabinet “puts its
resignation at the disposal” of the council. He said the move
was “standard procedure and doesn’t mean” that the government
had quit.  IMF Support  El Beblawi said last month he had “no inhibitions” about
proposals by the  International Monetary Fund  to support the
country. Egypt turned down a $3 billion loan offer from the fund
in June.  “Any delay or disruption in bringing financial support to
Egypt will undermine the sentiment of investors, both domestic
and international, and will put additional pressure on the
currency,” said Moubayed.  Egypt’s foreign reserves fell for the ninth straight month
this year to $24 billion in September.  Sectarian tensions have increased amid fears by many
Christians that Islamists will have more influence in post-
Mubarak Egypt, where parliamentary elections are scheduled to
start on Nov. 28. The fighting erupted while Christians were
protesting an attack on a church in southern Egypt.  The Oct. 9 demonstrations started peacefully and then
turned violent when protesters were attacked by men in civilian
clothing who pelted them with stones, witnesses said.
Demonstrators later clashed with security forces in central
Cairo. The army, which has ordered the Cabinet to form a fact-
finding committee to investigate the violence, said that some
protesters had been carrying swords and Molotov cocktails.  Sawiris Warning  The Free Egyptians party co-founded by Christian
businessman  Naguib Sawiris  said in an e-mailed statement that it
“warns the military council that continuing to handle events
with force will shake the trust that Egyptians have given it.”
It called on the army to “shoulder its responsibility to
protect Christian establishments” and called the violence “a
clear attack on the freedom to peacefully protest.”  “The gap between the revolutionaries and SCAF has been
widening,” Hani Sabra, an analyst at Eurasia Group said,
referring to the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, the
official name of the military council. “But not everyone hates
SCAF. SCAF does enjoy some support as guarantors of stability.”
The prime minister’s “popularity with young revolutionary
activists has plummeted. They view him as more of an enabler of
the military council.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 