-- 
Elle Macpherson Browses Frieze, $1.4 Million Rauch Leads Sales

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-10-12T23:27:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/elle-macpherson-browses-frieze-as-art-buyers-party-buy-1-4-million-rauch.html
Elle Macpherson , the model, and
actor Joseph Fiennes were among the browsers on the VIP day of
the Frieze Art Fair in London as paintings by Neo Rauch, Rudolf
Stingel and Luc Tuymans sold for as much as $1.4 million.  Amid the smattering of celebrities, there were fewer of the
most wealthy regular visitors, particularly from the U.S. Some
preferred to wait for next week’s  FIAC  fair in Paris, said
dealers. Many browsers this year were also slower to purchase
newer works that they regard as speculative investments, even
with most priced at less than $50,000.  Bidders hesitated over some pieces at Phillips de Pury &
Co.’s evening sale too as the art market’s latest test opened up
to auctions and some Frieze-goers headed to parties. The top
lot, a Jeff Koons sculpture, sold to a single telephone bid of
2.1 million pounds ($3.3 million) against a low estimate of 2
million pounds. More than $500 million of works are on offer,
$350 million of them at Frieze,  Europe ’s biggest commercial
event focused primarily on living artists.  “People are checking things out rather than actually
buying,” the London-based dealer  Offer Waterman  said. “They are
definitely cautious in the light of world events,” he said,
referring to economic weakness and volatile financial markets.  “If the market is less frenzied, we get a little bit more
time to consider work,” Tate Director Nicholas Serota said at
 Frieze . “It means that dealers are more willing to sell to us.”  Serota said  Tate  itself earmarked 1 million pounds to 1.5
million pounds a year of its tax-funded grant to buy art. The 
gallery -- using 150,000 pounds given to it by the Outset 
Contemporary Art Fund charity -- spent 120,000 pounds of that 
money at Frieze yesterday on works by three women artists: 
 Poland 's Alina Szapocznikow, Portuguese-born Helena Almeida and
Melanie Smith.  Zwirner Sale  The 2003 painting “Haus des Lehrers,” by the Leipzig School
artist Rauch, was one of the few confirmed sales of more than $1
million. It was sold by the  New York  dealer  David Zwirner  to a
U.S. collector, the gallery said.  “People are looking at works, thinking about them and
buying them,” Robin Vousden, the London-based director of
 Gagosian , said after six works sold during the first two hours
of Frieze. Stingel’s 2011 monochrome portrait of the Austrian
artist Franz West, who curated the Gagosian booth, sold for a
price of more than $500,000.  “Interior nr. I,” a 2010 painting by the Belgian Tuymans,
was bought by a U.K. collector on the booth of the Antwerp-based
 Zeno X Gallery , also for a price of more than $500,000.  Reserve at $5 Million  New York-based  Pace , keen to make contact with European
collectors, was one of four dealerships making their debut at
Frieze. Pace showed Chuck Close’s 1993 portrait “Joel,” priced
at about $5 million. It attracted two reserves, Marc Glimcher,
the gallery’s president, said. It also showed, for one day, a
1941 Alexander Calder mobile, marked at $6.5 million.  “People are being more selective about which art fairs they
attend because there are too many and not enough differentiation
among them,” New York-based adviser Mary Hoeveler said. “None of
my clients do more than one or two fairs a year, if that many.”  London  and Zurich dealer  Hauser & Wirth  now represents the
rising British artist  Thomas Houseago . One from the edition of
three 2011 bronze “Hermaphrodite” sculptures was sold from the
Frieze Sculpture Park to a U.K. collector, priced at $425,000,
while a unique plaster mask sold for $100,000.  “Business was being done,” the London-based adviser Michael 
Frahm said in an interview. “Even though everyone is sitting on 
the fence, trying to work out what is going to happen in the 
economy. Activity levels are probably going to go down slightly
and mid-career artists will probably be affected.”   Two-thirds of  Phillips's  35 lots sold, raising a total of 
8.2 million pounds with fees against a low estimate of 9.9 
million pounds, based on hammer prices. Koons's painted 
aluminum-and-steel “Sea Walrus Trashcans” sculpture from the 
"Popeye" series was from an edition of four begun in 2002.   A reflective 2010 silver monochrome by New York's Jacob 
Kassay -- the subject of a show at London's Institute of 
Contemporary Arts -- made 163,250 pounds, beating a 50,000-pound 
low estimate and approaching the record $290,500 paid for
another painting by the artist at Phillips in New York in May.  Frieze, which has  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  as its main sponsor,
runs through Oct. 16 in Regent’s Park, London. Information:
 http://www.friezeartfair.com , +44-20-3372-6111.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 