-- 
Emdeon Among Companies Planning Bond Offerings: New Issue Alert

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-10-12T09:33:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/emdeon-among-companies-planning-bond-offerings-new-issue-alert.html
Emdeon Inc. (EM) , the provider of billing
systems and software for the health-care industry, is among
companies planning to sell at least $3.3 billion of bonds in the
U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Borrowers sold $1.3 billion of bonds in the U.S. yesterday,
Bloomberg data show. Companies have sold $920.9 billion of bonds
this year, compared with $888 billion in the similar period of
2010.  Following is a description of pending sales of corporate
and other bonds.  Investment Grade  BANCO DE BOGOTA SA (BOGOTA) , the unit of Grupo Aval Acciones y
Valores, plans to sell $1 billion of 10-year senior unsecured
notes denominated in U.S. dollars, Moody’s Investors Service
said on Sept. 22. Moody’s said that it would rate the proposed
notes Baa2.  (Updated Sept. 26. See BOGOTA CB.)  INDIAN RAILWAY FINANCE CORP., the funding arm of  India ’s
rail ministry, plans to sell $300 million of dollar-denominated
bonds to fund train purchases. The fixed-rate notes due in five
years may pay a coupon lower than the 4.406 percent set at its
March sale, Managing Director Rajendra Kashyap said in an
interview in New Delhi. The proposed notes are rated BBB- by
 Standard & Poor’s .  TRITON CONTAINER INTERNATIONAL LTD, the world’s largest
owner-lessor of marine intermodal cargo containers, plans to
sell $180 million of senior notes, according to a statement
distributed by Standard & Poor’s. S&P assigned a BBB issue-level
rating to the notes from the San Francisco-based company, which
leases dry van, open top and flat rack containers.  Split-Rated  UNION BANK OF INDIA LTD., the Mumbai-based lender that went
 public  in 2002, hired banks to help it arrange a series of
credit investor meetings in  Asia  and  Europe , according to a
person with knowledge of the transaction. The bank may consider
a sale of dollar bonds thereafter subject to market conditions,
the person said, asking not to be identified as details are
private. Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc.,
HSBC Holdings Plc, Deutsche Bank AG and Standard Chartered Plc
are helping to arrange the meetings, the person said. The bank
is rated Ba1 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  Not Rated  BANCO BICE plans to sell $120 million of five-year bonds
denominated in U.S. dollars, said Diario Financiero, citing the
Santiago-based lender.  UCO BANK, a Kolkata, India-based state-owned bank, plans to
meet with debt investors in  Hong Kong ,  London  and  Singapore 
ahead of a possible sale of bonds denominated in U.S. dollars,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter. BNP
Paribas, Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Standard Chartered Plc will arrange the so-called non-deal
roadshows, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because he is not authorized to speak on the matter.  PRONACA will sell $50 million in bonds to help refinance
existing debt, the Bolsa de Valores de Quito said. Ecuador’s
biggest food processing company will sell the bonds, which have
maturities ranging from 3.2 years to 5.9 years, to yield between
6.25 percent and 7.25 percent, the exchange said in an e-mailed
statement.  AKKORD INDUSTRY CONSTRUCTION I, a civil engineering firm
based in Baku,  Azerbaijan , plans to sell $100 million of bonds
in U.S. dollars, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
notes will be due in three years, the data show.  (Added Aug. 8. See  http://www.akkord.az/ )  High Yield  KINETIC CONCEPTS INC. (KCI) , the wound-care company that’s being
purchased by Apax Partners Inc., plans to sell $1.65 billion of
senior secured notes denominated in euros and dollars. The
company canceled plans to issue $900 million in unsecured bonds
denominated in dollars, according to a person familiar with the
offering who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Moody’s assigned the debt a grade of B3 and S&P ranked them.  (Added Oct. 11. See KCI US .)  EMDEON INC., the provider of billing systems and software
for health-care companies, may sell $375 million of eight-year
notes to help pay for its leveraged buyout by Blackstone Group
LP and Hellman & Friedman LLC, according to a person familiar
with the offering who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. Moody’s rated the notes Caa1.  (Added Oct. 10. See EM US .)  VIETNAM JOINT STOCK COMMERCIAL BANK FOR INDUSTRY AND TRADE,
or VietinBank, may offer a coupon of 5 percent to 6 percent on
its planned $500 million overseas bond sale, Chairman Pham Huy
Hung said in an interview in Hanoi on Sept. 15. The lender is
“determined to sell the bonds within this year,” said Hung.  MANNKIND CORP., the biotechnology company founded by
billionaire investor Alfred Mann, plans to raise $370 million by
selling senior secured discount notes due 2017, the Valencia,
California-based firm said in a Sept. 23 statement distributed
by Business Wire. Proceeds may be used to complete Phase 3
clinical trials of MannKind’s lead product candidate, Afrezza,
preparing for the commercialization of Afrezza, continuing to
build out a Danbury, Connecticut, factory and for research and
development, according to the statement.  EMPRESA DE ENERGIA DE BOGOTA SA, Colombia’s second-biggest
electricity transporter, hired Deutsche Bank AG and Banco
Santander SA to sell bonds overseas, according to a person
familiar with the offering. Bogota-based EEB, as the utility is
known, may seek to sell bonds that mature in 10 years, said the
person who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  YPF SA, Argentina’s dominant integrated oil company, may
sell $300 million to $600 million of dollar-denominated eight-
year notes, according to a July 8 note from  Fitch Ratings , which
rates the bonds BB-. The proceeds of the offering of senior
unsecured notes may be used for general corporate purposes,
mainly capital investments and working capital needs, according
to the note.  PROBUSINESSBANK hired BCP Securities LLC and UBS AG to
arrange meetings with investors in Asia and Europe for a
possible sale of bonds in dollars, said a banker with knowledge
of the deal, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. The Russian lender is rated B2 by Moody’s.  Offerings in Pipeline  UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP. (UTX) , the maker of Pratt & Whitney jet
engines, may raise $12 billion of debt to help finance its $16.5
billion acquisition of Goodrich Corp., Chief Financial Officer
Greg Hayes told analysts on a conference call on Sept. 22. Most
of the debt will mature within five years, he said.  CODELCO, the world’s largest copper producer, will look to
sell bonds to help finance a record $4 billion investment in its
Chilean mines next year, Chief Executive Officer  Diego Hernandez 
said.  ENTERGY LOUISIANA LLC, the unit of the New Orleans-based
power company, plans to sell about $206 million of bonds,
according to a company statement. The offering was delayed and
reauthorized after the utility violated regulations by
publicizing the sale in the wrong newspapers, the Associated
Press said on Aug. 11.  ISLAMIC BANK OF THAILAND, the nation’s state-owned bank,
may sell $150 million of Sharia-compliant bonds overseas, the
bank’s president Dheerasak Suwannayos, told reporters.  DOLPHIN ENERGY LTD., the Dubai-based natural gas producer,
will be “actively monitoring the market” and will release
terms on its planned dollar benchmark bond issue in an
“appropriate window of execution,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement.  ABU DHABI may sell an international bond, Lars Boman,
senior adviser at Abu Dhabi’s Debt Management Office, told a
Euromoney conference in London.  ROMANIA has started work on upgrading its medium-term note
program to include dollar-denominated notes, Deputy Finance
Minister Bogdan Dragoi said at a conference in Bucharest. The
ministry will have the option to sell bonds in either dollars or
euros, he said.  THE NETHERLANDS may sell “a few billion” of dollar-
denominated bonds this year, according to the Dutch State
Treasury Agency. The securities are likely to have five-year
maturities, Peter Nijsse, the head of cash management, issuance
and trading at the agency, said in an interview following a
media presentation in London on June 10. The Netherlands is
rated AAA by Standard & Poor’s and Aaa by Moody’s Investors
Service.  CODERE SA (CDR) ,  Spain ’s only publicly traded gambling operator,
may sell its first dollar-denominated bonds to refinance
existing debt in euros, Chief Financial Officer David Elizaga
said in an interview. Codere, which has 760 million euros ($1.1
billion) of bonds maturing in 2015, will sell “certainly a
minimum of $400 million” in the securities that will help the
company buy back debt and extend maturities to 2018 or 2019, he
said.  EL TEJAR SA, the world’s largest grain producer, plans to
sell as much as $300 million of bonds in the U.S. this year
before a planned initial public offering, according to the
company’s chief financial officer. The Buenos Aires-based
company could accelerate plans for the IPO depending on investor
reaction to the sale of between $200 million and $300 million of
bonds maturing in seven to 10 years, Chief Financial Officer
Mario Lorencatto said.  BHARTI AIRTEL LTD., India’s biggest mobile-phone operator,
plans to raise $750 million selling its first overseas bonds,
according to Fitch Ratings. Fitch graded the notes BBB-, the
lowest investment grade, according to a statement from the
ratings company.  CHINA AUTOMATION GROUP LTD. plans to issue $200 million of
senior notes due 2016 to yield 7.75 percent, the company said in
a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange on April 14. UBS AG
will lead the sale of the issue, for which conditions and terms
are yet to be decided, it said.  ASTON RESOURCES LTD., the Australian mineral exploration
company, is considering selling bonds in the U.S. to help raise
funds to develop its Maules Creek coal project in New South
Wales, Chief Executive Officer Todd Hannigan said at a business
luncheon in Sydney on March 3. Aston may raise $300 million to
$500 million, he said.  MONGOLIA is planning its first sale of sovereign bonds,
seeking about $500 million, to establish a benchmark that would
help companies from the resource-rich nation located between
China and  Russia  raise funds from credit markets. The issue will
be used to finance expansion of the mining industry and build
roads and bridges, President Tsakhia Elbegdorj said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York .  AVG TECHNOLOGIES, the Czech maker of Internet security
software, plans to sell bonds to U.S. investors to raise money
for dividends and acquisitions,  Siobhan MacDermott , AVG’s
Prague-based investor relations officer, said in an interview
Feb. 10. The producer of a free antivirus program that competes
with McAfee Inc. and Symantec Corp. is seeking to raise $300
million of debt, MacDermott said.  TATA STEEL LTD., India’s biggest producer of the alloy,
plans to sell $500 million of debt by the middle of this year,
CNBC-TV18 news channel reported, without saying where it got the
information.  RODOPA EXPORTACAO DE ALIMENTOS & LOGISTICA LTDA, a
Brazilian beef producer, may sell as much as $100 million in
five-year bonds in the second half of this year or early next
year, Chief Executive Officer Sergio Longo said Feb. 4 in an
interview at the company’s headquarters in Sao Paulo.  (Added Feb. 8. See  http://www.tatuibi.com.br/ )  GAIL INDIA LTD., the nation’s largest natural gas
distributor, plans to borrow $300 million overseas, P.K. Jain,
director of finance, said in a telephone interview on Sept. 12.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group (BARKA) , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
hasn’t decided on the size of the bond, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 