-- 
English Soccer Bodies Receive Deadline to Change Regulation of Sport

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-10-12T13:02:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/english-soccer-bodies-receive-deadline-to-change-regulation-of-sport.html
England ’s soccer authorities have
been given until the end of February to respond to U.K.
government proposals demanding changes in the way the game is
run or face intervention.  The government today released a 16-page report that called
for the Football Association to do more to regulate club’s
finances and add outsiders to the sport’s governing bodies.
Sports Minister Hugh Robertson last week said officials are
drawing up draft legislation should authorities not comply
before next season.  The report follows a yearlong investigation by lawmakers
about issues including levels of debt and poor management.
Politicians questioned some of the most senior figures in the
game, including the chief executive officers of the Premier
League,  Manchester United  and the Football Association.  “This country is hugely passionate about our national game
and there are many reasons we should be pleased with how it has
progressed over the last two decades,” Robertson said a
statement. “However I believe that there are improvements that
can be made in the governance arrangements, which have failed to
keep up with the changing pace of the modern game.”  Responsibility for licensing England’s 92 professional
teams should shift from the leagues to the  F.A ., the government
said. The proposal comes after a number of teams suffered
financial problems. Two seasons ago, Portsmouth became the first
Premier League club to require  bankruptcy protection , with debt
of more than 100 million pounds ($157 million). Greg Clarke,
chairman of the Football League, said overall debt in the three
lower leagues is about 500 million pounds.  Ownership Issues  The identity and integrity of team owners is also an issue.
Portsmouth changed hands four times within six months before
collapsing, and briefly had an owner in Ali al-Faraj, who was
nicknamed Ali Al-Mirage by U.K. newspaper because he’d never
been seen.  Shaun Harvey, the chief executive officer of former English
champion Leeds, told lawmakers in March he didn’t know who
controlled a trust that at that time owned his team.  “The evidence taken by the committee in this area
demonstrates how clearly football governance has failed to keep
pace with the challenges of the modern game and global
commercial attractiveness of English football,” today’s
statement said.  It said, “particularly robust criteria” must be applied
to prospective owners and directors before they are able to own
or run a club. The Premier League has tightened its rules since
Portsmouth’s problems but the Football League doesn’t have the
structures to implement and monitor its rules as strongly.
That’s why there should be a consistent licensing model that is
overseen by the F.A., the report said.  Board Changes  The government also recommended changes to the structure
and composition of the F.A.’s board and governing council,
saying it lacked diversity as well as individuals who’d played
the game at a high level. A process to hire two independent
directors is already under way and Chairman  David Bernstein  said
he’d also like to add a woman to the group.  “I do not want the government to run football, so this is
an opportunity for the football family to work together to
benefit the game in the long-term,” Robertson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 