-- 
Esprit Shares Plunge After Report Says It Overstated Outlets

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 
2011-10-12T07:26:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/esprit-shares-plunge-after-report-says-it-overstated-outlets-2-.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , the biggest
Hong Kong-listed clothing retailer, fell the most in three weeks
in trading in the city after a magazine report said the company
overstated its number of stores.  Esprit plunged as much as 14 percent, the biggest intraday
drop since Sept. 19, to HK$9.51 and traded at HK$10.14 as of
3:05 p.m., after Next Magazine reported that 30 outlets listed
by the company on its website in the Chinese cities of Shanghai
and Shenzhen either don’t exist or couldn’t be reached. The
benchmark  Hang Seng  index gained 0.9 percent.  The retailer has lost more than 40 percent of its market
value since it said Sept. 15 full-year profit plunged 98 percent
amid declining sales in  Europe , intensified competition and
costs to close stores and sell its North American operations.
Esprit’s share price is vulnerable to any additional bad news,
said  Alex Wong , an asset-management director at Ample Capital
Ltd. in Hong Kong.  “Esprit doesn’t have a very solid asset base,” Wong said.
“Trust is a big issue right now.”  Four calls made to Patrick Lau, Esprit’s investor relations
vice president, on his mobile phone went unanswered. An e-mail
sent to him this morning also wasn’t answered. Chew Fook Aun,
Esprit’s chief financial officer, didn’t answer a call to his
mobile phone.  Next Report  Out of 37 directly operated stores and 35 department-store
counters in Shanghai listed by the retailer, seven don’t exist
and 13 couldn’t be reached, Next Magazine, a local publication,
said in its report. In Shenzhen, where the company listed a
total of 37 outlets, seven don’t exist and three couldn’t be
contacted, Next said.  Esprit had 300 directly operated stores in  China  as of June
30, a net increase of 12 from last year, the company said in its
annual report.  The retailer plans to more than double sales in China, the
world’s most populous nation, in four years to make up for
declining demand in Europe. In the year ended June, it had
HK$2.68 billion ($344 million) in revenue from China, its
fastest-growing market.  Revenue from Europe, where Esprit makes most of its sales,
has declined for three straight years amid the region’s debt
crisis and intensified competition from regional rivals  Hennes &
Mauritz AB (HMB)  and  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara.  Esprit rose to a three-week high yesterday after hedge fund
Lone Pine Capital LLC, a Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge fund,
increased its stake in the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  