-- 
MetLife May Sell Mortgage Business to Focus on Insurance

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-10-12T22:17:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/metlife-may-sell-mortgage-business-in-life-insurer-s-retreat-from-banking.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the life insurer
selling banking assets to limit federal oversight, may also seek
a buyer for its mortgage operation as it increases focus on its
main businesses.  Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian , who took the job
in May, is planning to exit a business that expanded in June
when it replaced Bank of America Corp. as the preferred lender
of builder KB Home. Kandarian announced in July he was putting
the deposits business on the market as the federal government
tightens rules on the biggest financial firms.  Keeping the mortgage unit could divert “resources away
from MetLife’s primary focus on its global insurance and
employee benefits businesses,” the New York-based company said
today in a statement. The company, the largest U.S. life
insurer, plans to keep a so-called reverse-mortgage business
that issues home equity-backed loans to people age 62 or older
and jumped to No. 2 in the U.S. this year.  “They were in the forward-mortgage business, but where
they really wanted to be is in the reverse-mortgage business,”
said  Steven Schwartz , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates
Inc., who has an “outperform” rating on MetLife’s stock. “The
reverse side, they see as all part of the retirement, savings,
income-distribution package.”  Assets at the MetLife Bank unit more than doubled to  $16.5
billion  in the three years ended in June, according to Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. data. Second-quarter operating earnings
at the bank plunged to $14 million from $67 million on higher
expenses and lower mortgage sales, the company said July 28.  Regulatory Environment  MetLife will continue to originate mortgages as it seeks a
buyer for the business, it said. MetLife Bank made about $4.4
billion of residential home loans in the first quarter of 2011,
accounting for 1.5 percent of total mortgage originations,
according to data from Inside Mortgage Finance.  “We plan to continue our reverse mortgage origination
operations,”  Christopher Breslin , a MetLife spokesman, said in
an e-mail. “I would note that, as a public company, we
continuously evaluate all of our businesses based on market
conditions and the regulatory environment.”  Insurers, which are regulated by the U.S. states, are
exiting banking businesses as federal policy makers prepare
additional oversight of the largest lenders. MetLife said in
July it was exploring the sale of its deposit-gathering business
to sidestep regulation aimed at banks.  Allstate, Hartford  “Today’s uncertain marketplace and regulatory environment
require a tremendous amount of resources,” MetLife said in the
statement. “Exiting the depository business and deregistering
as a  bank holding company  also will enable MetLife to operate
within the same regulatory framework as other insurance
companies.”  Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the largest publicly traded U.S. home and
auto insurer, said in August it would shut its bank after a deal
to sell deposits to Discover Financial Services failed to win
regulatory approval. Insurer Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. struck a deal in May to sell the lender that it had
acquired in 2009 to qualify for a bailout.  MetLife has dropped 29 percent this year on the New York
Stock Exchange, compared with the 20 percent decline in the 24-
company KBW Insurance Index.  MetLife is the second-biggest provider of reverse mortgages
behind  Wells Fargo & Co ., according to U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development data.  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America fell from second to third. Wells Fargo,
based in  San Francisco , said in June it would discontinue
origination of reverse mortgages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  