-- 
Metro Gets Online a Decade After Amazon to Stanch Electronic Loss: Retail

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-10-12T22:04:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/metro-gets-online-a-decade-after-amazon-to-stem-electronic-loss-retail.html
For  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s largest
retailer, showing up 10 years late for the online party is
better than not turning up at all.  A decade after  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  started selling televisions
and cameras to Germans, Metro’s Saturn stores followed this
week, to be joined in January by its Media Markt chain. The
decision will help Metro post sales growth at the division of
4.4 percent in 2012, the average of five analyst estimates
shows, returning the traditionally fastest-growing business to
expansion after its first loss in at least 10 years.  The resumption of growth “will not happen without Web
sales,” said Sebastian Frericks, a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Bankhaus Metzler. “Media Saturn is not competitive compared
with online businesses and that’s why e-commerce is very
important to stop the electronics business from bleeding.”  Whether the unit can restore sales growth to a five-year
historic average of 9.4 percent may also depend on it cutting
store prices that can be more than 10 percent higher than at
online competitors. Metro, searching for a successor to Chief
Executive Officer Eckhard Cordes, must reduce the amount it
charges Saturn and Media Markt customers by 5 percent on
average, according to  Peter Steiner , an analyst at BHF-Bank AG.  After 20 years of being Metro’s growth driver, Media-Saturn
has contributed to a 40 percent decline in the company’s share
price this year as delays getting online meant losing sales to
cheaper rivals. The Dusseldorf-based retailer also faces a
domestic retail market where sales declined the most in more
than four years in August, as concern about the impact of
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis weighs on  consumer spending .  ‘Very Ambitious’  Media-Saturn, which acquired Web retailer Redcoon GmbH in
July, is targeting 5 billion euros ($6.9 billion) in online
sales by 2015, a goal which is “very ambitious, but feasible,”
said Thomas Effler, an analyst at WestLB in  Frankfurt . By then,
the company will be under new leadership. Cordes said this week
that he won’t renew his contract beyond next year, citing media
speculation of opposition on the company’s board.  “There are lots of challenges for the future CEO,” said
Christoph Schlienkamp, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe in
Dusseldorf. These include deciding on the future of Kaufhof
department stores and the Real supermarket chain, which Metro
has said it may sell or find partners for.  Metro reported second-quarter profit that missed analysts’
estimates in August, weighed down by an operating loss of 44
million euros at the consumer-electronics division, which
accounts for almost a third of group revenue.  The retailer’s online pricing is expected to be “quite
aggressive” to compete with the likes of  Amazon.de , said  Robert Greil , an analyst at Merck Finck & Co. in Munich.  Simpsons DVD  The  Saturn.de  website offers a Canon digital camera at 175
euros and a DVD of the latest series of The Simpsons for 43.99
euros, matching prices on Amazon’s German site, while a De
Longhi coffee machine is cheaper than at its competitor.  “They’re late to join the party, but are making an effort
to bring down prices to a level similar to the Internet,” said
Mark Josefson, an analyst at Silvia Quandt Research GmbH.  Media-Saturn last year began online operations in the
Netherlands and  Austria , where its prices are “much closer to a
competitive level,” Charles Allen, global food retail analyst
at Bloomberg Industries, said in a phone interview.  Still, prices at Saturn stores can be more expensive than
online. A Bosch washing machine could be found on the Web more
than 10 percent cheaper than its price in a Frankfurt Saturn
shop on Oct. 8, including the cost of delivery, while a Samsung
fridge could also be bought for almost 10 percent less online.  Multichannel Approach  Saturn’s website went live in  Germany  on Oct. 10, giving
customers the option to pick up or exchange goods in a store.
The retailer has 144 Saturn stores and 237 Media-Market outlets
in Germany. Worldwide, the chains have 862 stores combined.  “Being able to pick up an item in a store and take it back
to a store is a big advantage,” Josefson said.  Saturn charges as much as 39.90 euros for home delivery of
“large goods” on purchases made through its website.  PPR SA, the French owner of the Gucci luxury-goods brand,
and  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) , Europe’s second-largest electronics
retailer behind Metro, are among businesses that have benefited
from a multichannel approach combining stores and the Web.  Online sales at Fnac,  PPR (PP) ’s French electronics and media
chain, rose 17 percent to 185 million euros in the first half,
and represented 9.9 percent of the unit’s revenue. Overall, Fnac
sales dropped 3.2 percent on a like-for-like basis.  ‘A Big Plus’  Dixons started its online platform more than a decade ago
and had Web sales of more than 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion)
in its last fiscal year ended April 30. Online revenue at the
U.K. owner of the Currys and PC World chains now represents 14
percent of sales, up from about 10 percent five years ago.  “Having an online business plus shops bringing image,
logistics and service is a big plus,” said Marc Renaud, Paris-
based founder of Mandarine Gestion, which has about 2 billion
euros under management and holds Metro shares in its 840
million-euro Mandarine Valeur fund. “That’s the reason why they
could succeed in spite of being late,” he said of Metro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  