-- 
EU Calls for Coordinated Approach to Strengthen Banks: Text

-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 
2011-10-12T13:24:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/eu-calls-for-coordinated-approach-to-strengthen-banks-text.html
Below is the text of a statement
from the European Commission on proposals for combating the debt
crisis.  A roadmap for stability and growth  Brussels, 12 October 2011 - Today, the Commission has presented
a roadmap outlining the comprehensive response that is needed to
restore confidence in the Euro area and the European Union as a
whole. This response is designed to break the vicious circle
between doubts over the sustainability of sovereign debt, the
stability of the banking system and the European Union’s growth
prospects’.   Delivering on the commitments made in President Barroso’s State
of the Union Address, the Commission outlines five areas of
action that are interdependent and need to be implemented
together and as quickly as possible. The five areas are: a
decisive response to the problems in Greece; enhancing the euro
area’s backstops against the crisis; a coordinated approach to
strengthen  Europe ’s banks; frontloading stability and growth
enhancing policies, and building robust and integrated economic
governance for the future.   President Barroso said, “This roadmap charts Europe’s way out
of the economic crisis. Reactive and piecemeal responses to
different aspects of the crisis are no longer sufficient. We now
need to get ahead of the curve. Confidence can be restored
through an immediate deployment of all the elements needed to
solve the crisis. Only in this way we will be able to convince
our citizens, our global partners and the markets that we have
the solutions that measure up to the challenges all economies
are facing. We need to reach agreement at the European Council
on the 23rd October”.  The roadmap calls for:  1. Decisive action on  Greece  – so that all doubt is removed
about Greece’s economic sustainability. This must include
disbursement of the sixth tranche, a second adjustment
programme, based on adequate financing through public sector and
private sector involvement and continued support from the
Commission Task Force.  2. Completing Euro area intervention – including making the
decisions agreed on 21 July 2011 operational, maximising the
effectiveness of the EFSF, accelerating the launch of the
European Stability Mechanism to mid 2012 and the provision of
sufficient liquidity by the  European Central Bank .  3. A fully coordinated approach to strengthen Europe’s banks -
this should be based on a reassessment by the supervising
authorities using a temporary significantly higher capital ratio
of highest quality capital after accounting for exposure. Banks
should first use private sources of capital, with national
governments providing support if necessary. If this support is
not available, recapitalisation should be funded via a loan from
the EFSF. Pending this recapitalisation, these banks would be
prevented by national supervisors from distributing dividends or
bonuses.  4. Speeding up stability and growth-enhancing policies –
including rapid implementation of existing commitments on
services, energy and free trade agreements; swift adoption of
pending proposals to enhance growth such as tax initiatives,
fast-tracking forthcoming proposals, especially those that
extend the benefits of the Single Market and targeted investment
at the European Union level, including through project bonds.   5. Building robust and integrated economic governance for the
future, based on the existing treaties (Article 136),
reinforcing the Community approach. Building on the reinforced
“six pack” on economic governance and the European semester
already adopted, the proposals seek to integrate the European
Stability Mechanism and the Stability & Growth Pact into the
same fully integrated governance system to increase coherence
and efficiency. This would provide new powers for the
Commission/Council to intervene in the preparation of national
budgets and monitor their execution. Enhanced cooperation should
be envisaged in all cases where otherwise decisive action would
be held back.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net  