-- 
EU Carbon Price Hurt by Concern on Post-2012 Rules, CDC Says

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-10-12T16:23:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/eu-carbon-price-hurt-by-concern-on-post-2012-rules-cdc-says-1-.html
European Union carbon prices are
being hurt by a lack of clarity as to how the bloc’s emissions
trading system will operate after 2012, a report said.  Current undervaluation of carbon-dioxide permits is linked
to uncertainty about the “exact market operation rules” for
the next trading period running to 2020, according to research
conducted by academics from the University of Paris-Ouest and
published by the CDC Climat. CDC is a climate-protection unit of
Caisse des Depots et Consignations, the French state-owned bank.  European carbon allowances for delivery in December dropped
24 percent this year, trading at 10.73 euros ($14.81) a metric
ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  as of 4:48 p.m.
local time. The price of carbon fell by roughly half from 22.50
euros at the beginning of the current trading period in 2008.  “The market needs greater clarity and predictability
regarding its operating rules and the level of constraint that
will affect the allowance supply in the long-term,” Anna Creti,
Pierre-Andre Jouvert and Valerie Mignon said in the  report .  The EU cap-and-trade system, the world’s largest, is moving
toward auctioning in the next eight-year trading period after
giving most permits to companies for free since 2005. Fraud and
an increased supply of United Nations-backed offset credits have
added to investor uncertainty, according to the academics. UN
offsets can be used for compliance under the EU system.  Reduced Demand  EU lawmakers should consider tightening the market as slow
economic production has cut demand, David Hone, climate adviser
at  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and chairman of the International
Emissions Trading Association, said Oct. 6.  Hone suggested the bloc consider “setting aside” a fixed
number of allowances, meaning a certain volume of permits would
be at least temporarily removed from the market. He also
suggested lawmakers consider an auction-reserve price for the
period from 2021, when the fourth phase begins.  The EU won’t seek to introduce a minimum price for carbon
permits in its system, a spokesman for the European Commission
said today. “The commission never proposed a floor price in the
past, nor is it considering it now, nor will it propose it in
the future,” said Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman for
the commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm.  What’s needed are tighter emission-reduction limits, said
James Emanuel, head of environmental markets at STX Services BV
in Amsterdam, a carbon-trading company.  “What we should be discussing is not floors on price, but
governments setting more ambitious targets, which in turn would
result in a higher short-term price until such time that the
market achieves those targets and the price falls again,”
Emanuel said yesterday by e-mail. “The best-case scenario is a
very ambitious target and a low price, which would be an
indication that the target is close to being achieved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  