-- 
EU Commission Recommends Serbia to Win EU Candidate Status

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-10-12T14:27:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/eu-recommends-serbia-win-candidate-status-ties-kosovo-to-talks.html
The European Commission recommended
 Serbia  win candidate status and promised European Union entry
talks would start once the Balkan state makes “further
progress” in ties with the breakaway province of Kosovo.  Serbia will join other former Yugoslav republics in moving
toward the world’s largest trading bloc. Montenegro joins the
Republic of Macedonia in being ready to start negotiations,
while Croatia is set to join on July 1, 2013, the Brussels-based
commission said today. Today’s recommendations need approval by
all 27 EU members in December.  Once a pariah in the West under former President  Slobodan Milosevic , Serbia has made progress in overhauling its economy
and political landscape, the commission said. Improving
relations in Kosovo, Serbia’s former province that declared
independence in 2008, remains a priority.  “I recommend granting Serbia candidate status on the
understanding that Serbia re-engages in the dialogue with  Kosovo 
and is moving swiftly to the implementation in good faith of
agreements reached to date,” Enlargement Commissioner Stefan
Fule said today in Brussels. “The fact that this is the only
priority we set is in itself a tribute to the reforms we have
witnessed.”  President Boris Tadic said he was “proud” of the
recommendation and reiterated Serbia’s determination to continue
talks with Kosovo, while Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic
called it the “best possible outcome” and Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  said it was “status neutral.”  ‘Territorial Integrity’  Though Tadic ruled out accepting concessions that are
counter to Serbia’s view of its “territorial integrity,” he
said “it doesn’t mean it’s impossible to find a political
solution to the crisis if the other side has will for that.”  The Serbian dinar gained 1 percent on the day to trade at
100.209 at 4:10 p.m. in Belgrade, according to Bloomberg data.
The BELEX15 index of the most actively traded stock at the
Belgrade Stock Exchange rose 0.81 percent on the day.  Serbia took a key step in becoming EU ready when it turned
over the two last suspected war-crime fugitives to  The Hague 
earlier this year. Still, the EU’s pressure for Belgrade to give
up its claims for full control of Kosovo has taken its toll. EU
leaders will meet Dec. 9 at a summit in Brussels.  Waning Support  Support in Serbia for membership fell to 46 percent in
September from 53 percent in June, the lowest reading since
polling on the subject was introduced in 2002, said Djelic on
Sept. 30, without providing poll details.  EU ambassador to Serbia Vincent Degert, who called the
opinion a “milestone,” said Serbia has a “few more weeks, a
few more months” to continue talks with Kosovo and implement
agreements that “have been achieved.”  Kosovo is recognized by 22 of 27 EU member states and
 Germany  wants unconditional resumption of dialogue between the
capital Belgrade and Kosovo. Talks on economic and political
ties were halted after Kosovo’s authorities declared a trade war
on Serbia and sent their police and customs staff to control two
administrative checkpoints.  Serbs consider Kosovo, the home of their Orthodox church,
as the cradle of their own culture and religion and reject any
move to carve it from the nation.  In its report on Kosovo, the commission said “it is
important that Kosovo launches a comprehensive agenda for the
north,” referring to the territory majority populated by the
Serbs, who do not accept Pristina authorities.  Kosovo Issues  Kosovo itself has a list of problems to tackle, including
the widening budget deficit, a weak rule of law, an unstable
electricity supply, inadequate infrastructure and unskilled
labor, all of which affect businesses in the country.  “Weak economic policy planning and implementation caused
the derailment of the IMF standby agreement reached in 2010,”
forcing the commission to halt the disbursement of cash under
macro-financial assistance.  “The Kosovo government needs to take urgent steps to
address the budgetary deficit,” it said.  The commission left out Bosnia, the only republic from the
defunct communist  Yugoslavia  where a lack of functional
institutions at all levels still hampers required changes needed
for European integration. It also didn’t recommend the start of
membership talks with Albania, which retains candidate status.  Serb Transition  The progress report commended Serbia’s efforts to cooperate
with the war crimes tribunal in The Hague, harmonize laws to
meet EU standards and fight organized crime and corruption.  The transition to a market economy continues to make
progress, while the issue of competitiveness remains a problem,
the report said.  The Cabinet of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic has set EU
candidacy as the top goal in its four-year term that started in
2008. Negotiations between the EU and  Croatia , which is due to
sign the accession pact in December and become a member in July
2013, lasted six years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  