-- 
European Union Seeks Higher Bank Capital, Greek Payout as Crisis Worsens

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-10-12T16:19:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/eu-seeks-higher-bank-capital-greek-payout-in-bid-to-halt-financial-crisis.html
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  called for a reinforcement of crisis-hit banks, the
payout of a sixth loan to Greece and a faster start for a
permanent rescue fund to master Europe’s debt woes.  Barroso  urged  a “coordinated approach” to deliver a
“significantly higher capital ratio of highest quality
capital” for banks, while offering government funds only as a
last resort. Banks that require aid would be barred from paying
dividends or bonuses.  “Reactive and piecemeal responses to different aspects of
the crisis are no longer sufficient,” Barroso told the  European
Parliament  in Brussels today. “We now need to get ahead of the
curve.”  An Oct. 23 summit of euro leaders looms as a deadline for a
breakthrough in combating the crisis, which has driven  Greece 
toward default, rattled world markets and dented confidence in
the survival of the 17-nation currency.  Stocks and the euro rose today as optimism flickered that
the next anti-crisis plan will do what 256 billion euros ($353
billion) in aid pledges and 163 billion euros in European
Central Bank bond purchases have failed to do so far.  European bank stocks advanced for a sixth day, buoyed by
expectations that European governments would make money
available to bolster balance sheets so banks can withstand a
potential Greek bankruptcy. The Bloomberg European bank index
rose 2.9 percent.  Seek Market Finance  Backing a division of labor demanded by Germany, Barroso
said “systemic” banks should first seek market finance, tap
their own governments if that fails and only draw on the
European rescue fund as the ultimate backstop.  Banks may be required to maintain a 9 percent capital
buffer to absorb sovereign risks, up from the 5 percent core
capital level used in July’s stress tests, according to a person
familiar with discussions at the European Union’s top banking
regulator.  The specter of a possible Greek default shadows the pre-
summit consultations. A debt restructuring “can’t be ruled
out,” Jens Weidmann, head of  Germany ’s central bank, told  Bild 
in an interview published today.  To make Greece’s debt burden manageable, European leaders
are debating whether to push bondholders to accept losses that
go beyond the roughly 21 percent agreed on in July.  Sustainable Solution  Barroso and the commission’s economics chief,  Olli Rehn ,
tiptoed around that question in today’s parliament debate.
Bondholders must make an “adequate” contribution to “a
sustainable solution for Greece,” Rehn said.  Greek state workers barricaded the  Finance Ministry  in
downtown  Athens  today, museum attendants stayed home, prison
guards went on strike and dockworkers staged a four-hour
stoppage to protest budget cuts needed to unlock international
loans.  The unrest will continue in the lead-up to a parliamentary
vote next week on Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s plans to
cut wages and pensions and fire 30,000 government employees.  Greece won breathing space yesterday when commission, ECB
and  International Monetary Fund  inspectors recommended releasing
a loan installment of 8 billion euros next month.  The “positive” report will clear the way for the payout,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the
panel of euro finance chiefs, told RTL radio today. “With that
the Greek problem isn’t yet solved, but this is an important
step.”  Barroso sought to put the  commission , the EU’s executive
arm, at the center of rescue operations marked so far by discord
between Germany,  France , smaller euro-zone governments and the
independent central bank.  Slovakia Struggles  The latest country to make the crisis response hostage to
domestic politics was Slovakia, which failed to ratify a planned
reinforcement of the rescue fund late yesterday in a vote that
toppled the government.  Politicians in Slovakia, which switched to the euro in 2009
and sat out Greece’s first 110 billion-euro aid package last
year, agreed today to hold a second vote on Oct. 14. Parties
representing a majority pledged to vote yes.  “Political uncertainties, such as this one, will
contribute to the euro-area crisis persisting at varying degrees
of intensity for an extended period,”  Fitch Ratings  said in a
statement in  London  today.  Rescue Fund  Barroso said  Europe  needs to get more out of the 440
billion-euro rescue fund, set to obtain additional powers once
Slovakia completes the 17-country ratification marathon.  Known as the  European Financial Stability Facility , the
fund will be enabled to buy bonds in the primary and secondary
markets, offer precautionary credit lines and enable the
bolstering of bank capital.  Officials are working out how to scale up the financial
clout without requiring another round of parliamentary approvals
or tapping the ECB’s balance sheet. The central bank has ruled
out granting the EFSF a banking license.  “The EFSF must be more than just a firewall,” Barroso
said. “It should have real firepower. We should maximize its
capacity.”  Barroso repeated a call for governments to set up the
permanent fund, the 500 billion-euro European Stability
Mechanism, by mid-2012, a year earlier than planned.  The commission’s proposals for strengthening euro-area
economic management centered around giving more power to the
central EU authorities to intervene in national budget setting.  Barroso also said he will release an options paper on the
sale of joint euro-area bonds -- now rebaptized “stability
bonds” by the end of the year. Top-rated countries such as
Germany have ruled out common borrowing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  