-- 
EU Urges Turkey to Forge Cyprus Ties to Revive Stalled Talks on Membership

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-10-12T10:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/eu-urges-turkey-to-forge-cyprus-ties-to-revive-stalled-talks-on-membership.html
The European Union urged  Turkey  to
normalize relations with Cyprus, amid concerns about rising
tension between the two countries, to jump-start membership
talks that stalled more than a year ago.  Turkey has made progress over the past year in its push to
join the 27-nation bloc, the EU said today in an annual progress
report. The European Commission, the EU executive arm that also
oversees expansion, said Turkey needs to improve fundamental
rights, particularly freedom of expression, to advance.  The pace of Turkey’s membership application depends on full
implementation of a customs-union agreement that includes
Cyprus, the EU said in Brussels. Turkey, which doesn’t recognize
the Greek Cypriot government, has sent warships alongside a
Turkish vessel that is exploring for natural gas off the divided
Mediterranean island. It also threatened to freeze its EU ties
if Cyprus takes on the bloc’s rotating presidency without a
solution to the four-decade split.  “The accession negotiations with Turkey have regrettably
not moved into any new areas for over a year,” the EU said in
the report. “The pace of accession negotiations would gain new
momentum if Turkey proceeded to the full implementation of its
customs-union obligations with the EU, and made progress towards
normalization of relations with Cyprus.”  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  and Foreign Minister
 Ahmet Davutoglu  have repeatedly said Turkey would cease to have
relations with the EU if Cyprus assumes the presidency in the
second half of 2012 without a solution to reunify the island.  Rising Tensions  Since mid-September, tensions in the eastern Mediterranean
have been rising, with Turkey responding in kind to Greek
Cypriot drilling off the island’s southern coast.  Noble Energy
Inc. (NBL) , the U.S. firm that started drilling Sept. 18, found gas
reserves, the Greek Cypriot Phileleftheros newspaper reported
yesterday.  Cyprus split in 1974, when Turkey invaded in response to a
coup by supporters of a union with  Greece . Turkey is the only
country to recognize a Turkish Cypriot administration in the
island’s north, where it keeps thousands of troops. Greek
Cypriots rejected a 2004 UN plan submitted to a popular vote on
both sides of the island by three to one. Turkish Cypriots voted
two to one in favor.  The EU said trials of writers and journalists, as well as
limitations to  Internet access , cause “serious concerns” about
freedom of expression in Turkey.  Trade Accord  The bloc started talks in 13 of 33 policy areas as part of
the membership negotiations. Discussions on one of the issues
have been provisionally closed and talks on eight others can’t
be opened until Turkey meets certain obligations, the EU said.
That includes the so-called Ankara Protocol that would extend a
trade accord with the EU to Cyprus. The bloc demands that Turkey
open its ports and airports to traffic from Cyprus under the
July 2005 protocol.  Turkey can overcome the “competitive pressure and market
forces” in the EU and should speed up implementation of
structural reforms to its economy, according to the report by
Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule’s group. The country’s 8.9
percent economic growth last year was driven by domestic demand
and its expansion has continued in 2011 as Turkey “strengthened
its presence in new markets” and continued its integration with
the EU, the group said.  “Turkey has become one of the fastest-growing economies in
the world,”  Egemen Bagis , a lawmaker heading Turkey’s newly
created EU Affairs Ministry, said Sept. 30 in Strasbourg,
 France , where he was meeting with counterparts from the bloc.
“There are still those who try to treat us as if we were the
Turkey of the 1960s. We can give them the response they deserve
with self-confidence because Turkey is quickly advancing on the
path to become a global power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 