-- 
EU to End Sugar Quotas After 2015 in New Agriculture Policy

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-12T14:55:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/eu-will-end-sugar-quotas-after-2015-in-new-farm-policy-correct-.html
The European Union, the world’s
largest grower of sugar beets, wants to abolish limits on
domestic sugar production in 2015, ending a policy that caused
a supply shortage of the sweetener in the bloc this year.  Sugar quotas should expire on Sept. 30, 2015, the European
Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, said today in proposals
for the bloc’s future agriculture policy. The quotas now cap
how much sugar can be produced for the EU’s domestic market.  The EU spent four years since 2006 shrinking its sugar-
beet industry to comply with a World Trade Organization ruling
limiting exports, turning the 27-nation bloc into a net
importer. Surging global prices since 2009 meant importers to
the EU have been able to sell sugar for more elsewhere. That
left food companies without enough supplies, Nestle SA says.  “The higher the sugar price, the more there will be an
increase in production by the more efficient beet-producing
countries in  Europe , and the lower the scope for imports,”
Alan Matthews, emeritus professor of European agriculture
policy at Trinity College in Dublin, said by phone yesterday.
“The expansion would take place in  Poland ,  Germany ,  France .”  Subsidized Sugar  The WTO ruling limits EU exports of subsidized sugar to
1.37 million metric tons. Beet growers have been asking to
increase the amount of sugar they can ship outside the region,
as well as how much can be sold for food use within the bloc.  “With most  developing countries  enjoying unlimited duty-
free access to the EU market, but EU exports limited by WTO
rules as long as there are quotas, an end to quotas is the only
option for providing the sector with a long-term perspective,”
the commission said in the statement today.  The EU began paying sugar factories to shut in 2006 to cut
output.  Tate & Lyle Plc (TATE) , after 132 years in the business, sold
its EU refineries last year to American Sugar Refining Inc.
Danisco A/S, based in Copenhagen, sold its sugar operations in
2009 to Germany’s Nordzucker AG.  The consumption-sugar quota for the 2011-12 season that
started Oct. 1 is about 13.8 million tons, according to the
commission. EU farmers can’t sell their entire crop for food use
because of the quotas.  EU sugar production is forecast to exceed 18 million tons
this year, up from 15.4 million tons in 2010 and 17.5 million
tons in 2009, French crops office FranceAgriMer said last month.  Without quotas, “the production response and therefore the
effect on imports will be determined by the level of world
sugar prices at the time, that is over the next decade,”
Trinity College’s Matthews said.  Frost Damage  The EU sugar beet crop was 10 percent smaller last year
because of frost, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture . That pushed up sugar prices as much as 70 percent
in some parts of the EU, according to Rabobank International.  To boost supplies, the EU authorized more sugar imports at
zero duty. White, or refined, sugar was selling in Europe at
about 517 euros ($712) a ton in March, more than the EU’s
reference price of 404.40 euros, spurring the EU to take market
action to boost supplies, according to Rabobank.  After the end of quotas, white, or refined, sugar would
become eligible for private-storage aid, the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 