-- 
Euro to Advance If Retracement Level Broken, Citi Says: Technical Analysis

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-10-12T14:32:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/euro-to-advance-if-retracement-level-broken-citi-says-technical-analysis.html
The euro may rise to $1.40 if it
breaks through a key level that marks the midway point of the
shared currency’s drop against the dollar since the end of
August, according to Citigroup Inc.  The 17-nation currency today approached the 50 percent
Fibonacci retracement level of its fall since Aug. 29, at
$1.3848. A break through there could drive it $1.4050, where the
200-day moving average converges with the 50 percent retracement
level from the euro’s high this year in May, said  Tom Fitzpatrick , chief technical analyst at Citigroup in  New York .  “If we close above it, it would suggest we are in danger
of seeing an extension in terms of this move,” Fitzpatrick
said. The euro’s rise this week has been “pretty vicious. The
market got caught a little bit ahead of itself.”  The euro rose 1.3 percent to $1.3812 at 10:31 a.m. in New
York, touching $1.3817. It has appreciated 3 percent this week,
paring its drop since Aug. 29 to 5 percent.  Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that securities
tend to rise or fall by specific percentages after reaching a
new high or low. It is based on a formula developed by a 13th
century mathematician, Leonardo of Pisa, known as Fibonacci, who
discovered the sequence while studying the reproduction rate of
rabbits.  The euro rose this week after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  pledged to deliver a
plan to support banks and repeated a commitment to keep  Greece 
in the single-currency bloc. European Commission President Jose Barroso today called for a reinforcement of crisis-hit banks,
the payout of a sixth loan to Greece and a faster start for a
permanent rescue fund to master  Europe ’s debt woes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  