-- 
Dollar Slumps; Fed Minutes Show ‘Uncertainty’

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-10-12T21:21:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/euro-rises-to-3-week-high-on-optimism-over-eu-bank-proposals.html
The dollar fell to a three week low
against the euro as minutes from the last Federal Reserve
meeting showed some policy makers saw “considerable
uncertainty” that U.S. economic growth will pick up.  The euro reached a one-month high versus the yen as
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  called for a
“coordinated approach” to recapitalize the region’s banks. New
Zealand’s dollar rose the most in two months against the dollar
as stocks and commodities advanced, buoying higher-yielding
currencies, and the yen sank against all its major counterparts.  “The U.S. outlook is still contentious; if Europe is making
progress in the right direction, then the U.S. is making
progress in the wrong direction,” said  David Watt , senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital unit
in Toronto. “Now that we have the right people seeming to talk
about the right things in the right way in the European Union,
we’re seeing the market has just gone nuts.”  The dollar depreciated 1.1 percent to $1.3791 versus the
euro at 5 p.m.  New York  time, after earlier touching $1.3834,
the weakest level since Sept. 16. The 17-nation currency gained
1.9 percent to 106.56 yen after reaching 107.05 yen, the most
since Sept. 9. The dollar rose 0.8 percent to 77.26 yen, after
touching 77.49, the highest level since Sept. 12.  Capital Buffers  Barroso urged a “coordinated approach” to deliver a
“significantly higher capital ratio of highest quality
capital” for banks, while offering government funds only as a
last resort. Banks that require aid would be barred from paying
dividends or bonuses.  Banks may be required to maintain a 9 percent capital
buffer to absorb sovereign risks, up from the 5 percent core
capital level used in July’s stress tests, according to a person
familiar with discussions at the European Union’s top banking
regulator.  Slovak parties reached an agreement to approve  Europe ’s
enhanced bailout fund, paving the way for a vote this week.  “The market is taking each proposal as a step towards
getting out of the European crisis, however, it will likely have
to get a lot worse before there is greater consensus on what
needs to be done. said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist
at Barclays Plc in New York. “Until then we remain cautious and
see politicians as being behind the curve. If the euro hovers
around here there will be less urgency from European
politicians.”  Fed Minutes  The Fed said some officials at its Sept. 20-21 meeting
wanted to keep further asset purchases as an option to boost the
economy as policy makers saw “considerable uncertainty” that
U.S. growth will pick up. The debate culminated in the central
bank’s decision to replace $400 billion of Treasuries in the
central bank’s portfolio with longer-term debt to reduce
borrowing costs, a policy known as Operation Twist.  “ While a couple of different tools were considered and
debated overall the outlook is consistent with a gradual and
painfully slow recovery in the economy,” said  Omer Esiner ,
chief market analyst in  Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign
Exchange Inc. “I would be a seller of euro at these levels,
there may be some near-term upside as this optimism plays out,
but I don’t see these gains as sustainable.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six U.S. trading partners, slid 0.8 percent to 77.026.
It earlier reached 76.796, the lowest since Sept. 21.  Stocks Rally  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1 percent.
 Government bonds  declined, with  Germany ’s 10-year bund falling
for a sixth straight day, pushing the yield on the securities up
10 points to the highest level since Aug. 31. The U.S. Treasury
30-year bond yield climbed as much as 15 basis points to 3.25
percent, the highest since Sept. 20.  Australia ’s dollar rallied 2.1 percent to $1.0159 and
gained 2.9 percent to 78.49 yen.  New Zealand ’s dollar
strengthened 2.1 percent to 79.59 U.S. cents and appreciated 2.9
percent to 61.50 yen.  The European Commission recommended  Serbia  win candidate
status and promised European Union entry talks would start once
the Balkan state makes “further progress” in ties with the
breakaway province of  Kosovo . Serbia will join other former
Yugoslav republics in moving toward the world’s largest trading
bloc.  Serbia’s dinar traded at 100.74 against the euro, up from
the central bank’s official mid-rate of 101.2273 yesterday.  The  U.S. Senate  passed legislation yesterday punishing
 China  for its undervalued currency, increasing concern that
trade between the two nations will be hurt.  U.S. lawmakers voted 63-35 to approve a measure that would
let companies seek duties to compensate for a weak Chinese yuan.
Governments that undervalue their currencies and don’t take
corrective action would face penalties, including increased
dumping duties and a ban on federal procurement in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  