-- 
Euro-Area Industrial Production Rose in August

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-10-12T11:32:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/european-industrial-production-unexpectedly-increased-in-august.html
European industrial production
unexpectedly rose for a second month in August as increasing
output in countries from  France  to Portugal and Italy offset a
German decline.  Production in the 17-nation euro area advanced 1.2 percent
from July, when it rose 1.1 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. That’s the biggest
gain since November 2010. Economists forecast a drop of 0.8
percent, the median of 32 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
showed. In the year, output increased 5.3 percent.  Europe ’s export-led recovery is losing some momentum as
governments struggle to contain the region’s 19-month fiscal
crisis just as global demand falters. Euro-region manufacturing
output contracted in September, economic confidence plunged to
the lowest in almost two years and the  International Monetary
Fund  lowered its growth forecasts for this year and next.  “We’ll still have a relatively robust third quarter in the
euro region,” said David Milleker, chief economist at Union
Investment GmbH in  Frankfurt , one of two economists in the
Bloomberg survey who forecast an increase. “Still, pressure is
increasing and that’s obviously a reason for concern. We have a
series of negative factors.”  The euro extended gains after the report, trading at
$1.3776 at 1:18 p.m. in Brussels, up 1 percent on the day. The
Euro Stoxx 50 Index advanced as much as 1.4 percent.  German Decline  In the 27-member EU, output rose 0.9 percent from July,
today’s report showed. Among the member states for which data
are available, production rose in 12 and dropped in 10. Portugal
had the highest monthly gain.  In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, which has powered the
region’s economic expansion, industrial output dropped 1 percent
from July, when it rose 3.9 percent. In France, the region’s
second-biggest economy, production advanced 0.6 percent, while
Spain reported an increase of 1.3 percent. In Ireland and Italy,
output also rose in that period. Greece reported a drop of 1.4
percent.  Today’s report “is a pleasant surprise and may reduce
fears that euro-zone economic activity might have contracted in
the third quarter,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at  ING
Groep NV (INGA)  in Amsterdam. Still, “the risk of a recession, later
down the road, remains high.”  ‘Standstill’  The economy may struggle to gather strength after expanding
just 0.2 percent in the second quarter. Commerzbank AG said in
an e-mailed note last month that the region “looks set to slip
into recession” over the coming months, when forecasting the
economy to stall in 2012.  The European Commission on Sept. 15 cut its euro-region
growth forecasts for the second half and warned the economy may
come “close to standstill at year-end.” The IMF in Washington
on Sept. 20 also lowered its growth projections for the euro
region, Germany and France for this year and next.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s largest maker of heavy-duty
vehicles, said on Sept. 19 it expects truck sales to keep
growing, even as global growth falters. German rival  MAN SE (MAN)  is
monitoring the impact on demand from Europe’s crisis.  Euro-region output of capital goods jumped 2.1 percent from
July, when it rose 3.2 percent, the statistics office said.
Production of intermediate goods and non-durable  consumer goods 
rose 1.7 percent and 1.1 percent, respectively. Energy output
failed to grow after rising 0.1 percent in July.  ‘Systemic Dimension’  The  European Central Bank  on Oct. 6 kept its benchmark
 interest rate  at 1.5 percent and extended liquidity measures to
support banks. President  Jean-Claude Trichet , who will be
replaced by  Italy ’s  Mario Draghi  at the end of the month, said
he sees “intensified downside risks” to the growth outlook.  “The crisis has reached a systemic dimension,” Trichet
told European lawmakers in Brussels yesterday. “Sovereign
stress has moved from smaller economies to some of the larger
countries.”  European officials are seeking to meet an end-of-month
deadline set by French President Nicolas Sarkozy to get to grips
with the crisis, which has pushed Greece close to default.
Governments are working out how to scale up the European
Financial Stability Facility’s firepower without requiring
another round of parliamentary approvals.  Trichet along with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  this week is scheduled to attend a Group of 20 finance
chiefs meeting in Paris as investors grow increasingly concerned
that the fiscal crisis will hurt global growth.  “The outlook for the world’s major economies is continuing
to darken,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Bloxham
Stockbrokers in an e-mailed note before today’s report. “Many
major western economies are teetering on the brink of recession
as they struggle to repay inflated levels of debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  