-- 
Euro’s Affordable Salvation, in Five Steps: Laurence Kotlikoff

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 
2011-10-12T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/euro-s-affordable-salvation-in-5-steps-commentary-by-laurence-kotlikoff.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  are in a terrible bind. They
don’t want financially distressed European governments to
default. But they can’t afford to keep them solvent.  Collectively, the governments in question --  Greece ,
Ireland,  Portugal ,  Spain  and  Italy  -- owe more than 3 trillion
euros ($4.1 trillion), much of it short term, and are still
borrowing at a rapid clip. The market isn’t buying their fiscal
pledges or their risky paper, forcing the European Financial
Stability Facility and the  European Central Bank  to step in. But
the EFSF has its limits, and the ECB doesn’t want to keep buying
indefinitely.  There’s a big rub, though. European banks hold large
quantities of sovereign debt, so if the governments don’t pay
the banks, the banks might not be able to pay their depositors.
Since depositors are paid on a first-come, first-served basis,
widespread government defaults -- or even the expectation of
them -- could produce a colossal bank run.  Financially strapped governments are in no position to
borrow to bail out their banks. And if other governments do so,
their own creditworthiness could be threatened. Indeed,
investors are showing increased concern about  Belgium , which
together with  France  just committed to bail out Dexia SA (whose
balance sheet is larger than Belgium’s annual economic output).
France and even  Germany  face a potential downgrade of their
credit ratings, or so says the market. Default insurance on AAA
rated French and German government bonds now costs roughly
thrice and twice as much, respectively, as insuring AA+ U.S.
Treasuries.  Bank Run  To some extent, the feared bank run is already under way.
U.S. lenders and money-market funds are moving their money out
of European banks, which are balking at lending to one another.
This is exactly what happened before the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  In this quiet run, the ECB is again left holding the bag.
It’s printing fresh euros to replace those fleeing the banks.
But ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  doesn’t want to go far
beyond this, as signaled by his reluctance to provide financing
to bolster the EFSF.  Merkel and Sarkozy are pledging to recapitalize  Europe ’s
banks, but doing so without fundamental banking reform will,
over time, prove impossible. Governments can sell bonds to their
banks knowing that Merkel and Sarkozy, in backing all European
banks, are effectively guaranteeing the returns on these and
other risky investments. Indeed, financial institutions could
end up holding all the outstanding debt of distressed sovereigns
as governments take advantage of free access to this guarantee.
This “no fail” policy would create immense moral hazard -- or,
rather, immoral certainty -- because it suggests that all bank
creditors, not just depositors, will never lose a penny.  Plan Unclear  What specifically the two leaders have in mind remains
unclear. Meanwhile, every day the crisis festers is another day
a major run can spontaneously erupt. Just imagine how the media
would react to long lines of desperate people trying to get
their money out of every bank in every city, town and village in
Europe.  Reporters might start asking whether the U.S. banking
system is exposed to Europe and could also suffer a run.
 According  to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency,
federally insured banks had sold more than $7 trillion in credit
protection as of June 30. An unknown share of that insures
European sovereign debt.  Insured Deposits  The  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  is supposed to
stand ready to protect all insured deposits. But some muckraker
-- say,  Rush Limbaugh  -- might point out that the FDIC has only
about $4 billion in net assets with which to meet $6.5 trillion
in deposit guarantees. And Limbaugh’s avid followers might
decide to get their money quick and use it to buy something real
before the  Federal Reserve  starts printing the missing
trillions. The Empty Wall Street movement would be a lot scarier
than Occupy Wall Street.  Last month, I wrote about the impending global Greek
tragedy. I’m getting more concerned and more convinced that the
only safe way out is Europe’s immediate switch to limited-
purpose banking -- that is, transforming all European lenders
into non-leveraged mutual funds. Once that happens, Merkel and
Sarkozy can go back to their regular jobs and let the financial
system run itself.  So what’s the cost and way to get to limited-purpose
banking? First, the ECB would inject 300 billion euros into the
banks in exchange for shares, thereby making them solvent. Next,
the European Union would require each bank to reorganize itself
immediately as a 100 percent equity-financed mutual-fund holding
company by following some simple steps.  1. Stop borrowing in any form, including checking and
 savings accounts .  2. Transform  investment banking  into a no-risk consulting
business, and trading into a no-risk matching business.  3. Open cash mutual-fund accounts for all checking
customers, and very strongly encourage them to put their money
in the new accounts. This will transfer the banks’ reserves to
the mutual funds, which will automatically be backed to the buck
because they will hold only cash. They will also constitute a
perfectly safe, fully reliable payment system because funds can
be accessed using checks, debit cards, and ATMs.  4. Very strongly encourage other short-term creditors to
transfer their accounts to short-term money-market mutual funds.
Have these mutual funds purchase the short-term assets held by
the banks.  5. Very strongly encourage long-term bank creditors to swap
their holdings for shares of mutual funds that specialize in
long-term bonds, stocks or real estate. These mutual funds would
then purchase those assets from the banks. In the case of real
estate, the mutual funds would be closed-end funds, which don’t
provide for immediate redemptions but have shares that trade in
secondary markets.  Such a banking system can’t fail because it has no debt on
which to default, and its assets always cover its liabilities.
The transition can be done quickly, and the 300 billion-euro
cost is small compared with eliminating the risk of financial
collapse. Merkel and Sarkozy could even provide the protesters
occupying  Wall Street  with a concrete goal for their movement:
adopting a system that limits bankers to their sole legitimate
purpose, which is boring, low-paying, safe financial
intermediation.  ( Laurence Kotlikoff , a professor of economics at  Boston
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Laurence Kotlikoff at  kotlikoff@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  