-- 
European Commission to Release Opinion on Serbia’s Candidacy

-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-10-12T07:02:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/european-commission-to-release-opinion-on-serbia-s-candidacy.html
The European Commission will
announce today whether it supports offering  Serbia  formal
candidacy status as the Balkan country withstands European Union
pressure to recognize the breakaway province of Kosovo.  The largest former Yugoslav republic wants to become a
candidate by year’s end and win a firm date to begin entry talks
after it turned over the two last suspected war-crime fugitives
to The Hague earlier this year. The commission will release its
report at noon in Brussels, with a briefing at 2 p.m. by
Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule.  EU membership is losing its shine among Serbians after
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  on Aug. 23 said Kosovo
recognition is on a list of conditions to be met for deeper
integration and the chance to win billions of euros of EU aid.
EU leaders are more skeptical of Serbia as a border dispute
between Serbia and  Kosovo  has escalated into sporadic violence
since the summer.  “The situation looks pretty bad,” said Predrag Simic, a
political analyst at the Faculty for Political Sciences in
Belgrade. EU sentiment toward Serbia has “soured to a point
unseen for a decade.”  EU accession needs approval by all 27 EU nations. Support
in Serbia for membership fell to 46 percent in September from 53
percent in June, the lowest reading since polling on the subject
was introduced in 2002, said Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar
Djelic on Sept. 30, without providing poll details.  Serbs consider Kosovo, the home of their Orthodox church,
as the cradle of their own culture and religion and reject any
move to carve it from the nation.  NATO Attack  The dispute over Kosovo’s independence dates back to 1999,
when the North Atlantic Treaty Organization bombed Serbia to
drive its soldiers from the province, which is majority
populated by ethnic Albanians, during the rule of former
President  Slobodan Milosevic .  Gaining candidacy status won’t lead to quick entry.
Neighboring  Croatia  started talks six years ago and is scheduled
to join in July 2013.  Kosovo, which declared independence in 2008, is recognized
by 22 of 27 EU member states, including Germany and  France .
European Affairs Minister Jean Leonetti said in Belgrade on Oct.
7 that French and German sentiment “differed in nuances” and
that France will try to ensure unanimity so that Serbia is not
faced with “impossible conditions.”  “Leaving Serbia without a status could mean the defeat of
EU diplomacy.,” said Simic. “In essence, it’s all about
prestige within the EU.”  Germany wants unconditional resumption of dialog between
Belgrade and Kosovo, halted after Kosovo’s authorities declared
a trade war on Serbia and sent their police and customs staff to
control two administrative checkpoints.  Serbs, who live in northern Kosovo and do not recognize the
authority of Kosovo, refuse to hold any talks until those forces
pull out.  German Demands  Germany  also wants an agreement on Kosovo’s participation
in regional events and a pact on telecommunications and energy.
Serbs who live in the province should also agree to turn over a
court in northern Mitrovica to Pristina authorities and start
closing parallel institutions, Simic said.  “I believe enough has been done to deserve a positive
assessment,” Milica Delevic, who heads the government’s EU
integration office, said on Sept. 28, dismissing the possibility
that Serbia’s candidacy will be rejected.  The Cabinet of Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  wants to win
candidate status before general elections early next year. The
government has adopted a set of laws in line with EU standards
and stepped up the fight against corruption and organized crime. 