-- 
Europe Banking System Needs to Be Bolstered, Soros Tells De Tijd

-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 
2011-10-12T08:38:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/europe-banking-system-needs-to-be-bolstered-soros-tells-de-tijd.html
The European Union’s banking system
needs to be bolstered to protect it from a potential bankruptcy
of a European nation, billionaire investor  George Soros  said in
an interview with  De Tijd .  “Together with an expansion of the European bailout fund,
the banking system should be protected in the short term against
a bankruptcy of a European country,” the newspaper quoted Soros
as saying. “The banking system must effectively come under the
guardianship of the  European Central Bank . They must take care
that banks don’t drastically begin to cut their bond
portfolios,” Soros told  De Tijd .  In an open letter to European leaders published today in De
Tijd, Soros urged action to stem the euro crisis because current
measures are insufficient, adding that the ECB and the European
Financial Stability Facility should be empowered to work
together to bring the crisis under control.  “Our political leaders still don’t understand what’s wrong
with the financial system,” Soros said in the interview with
the newspaper. “We stand on the edge of a catastrophe.”  An uncontrolled bankruptcy of a country such as  Greece 
would lead “without a doubt” to the collapse of the financial
system and a worldwide depression, Soros said.  “We must take two important decisions to avoid that,”
Soros said. “Euro-zone leaders must conclude a new treaty to
become a budget union. This union must be able to issue euro
bonds and urge budgetary discipline among governments.”  “But, we are not there yet,” Soros told the newspaper.
“How are we going to take care that the economy continues to
grow? Without growth, there is no solution, the debt load cannot
be worked away unless there is a revival in the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  