-- 
Euro Trades Near Four-Week High on Recapitalization Plan; Yen Appreciates

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-10-13T05:39:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/euro-trades-near-four-week-high-on-recapitalization-plan-slovakia-vote.html
The euro was 0.3 percent from an
almost four-week high before European Commission President  Jose Barroso  speaks in Brussels after calling yesterday for a
“coordinated approach” to recapitalize the region’s banks.  Demand for the euro was bolstered as Slovakia is set to
approve Europe’s enhanced bailout fund today or tomorrow,
completing the ratification process across the 17 euro
countries.  Australia ’s dollar gained after a report showed the
nation’s jobless rate fell. The yen rallied from its weakest
level in a month against the dollar on speculation Japan’s
exporters bought their currency. China’s yuan weakened following
data that showed slowing export growth.  “There’s certainly mounting optimism there is a greater
urgency from policy makers to bolster the European financial
system by things like the recapitalization of the banking
system,” said John Horner, a currency strategist at Deutsche
Bank AG in Sydney. “That should help support euro.”  The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.3799 as of 6:25 a.m. London
time from the close in  New York  yesterday, when it touched
$1.3834, the strongest since Sept. 16. The currency traded at
106.39 yen from 106.56 yesterday, when it reached 107.05 yen,
the most since Sept. 9.  The dollar lost 0.2 percent to 77.10 yen after touching
77.49 yesterday, the most since Sept. 12.  Looming Deadline  Barroso yesterday called for a reinforcement of crisis-hit
banks, the payout of a sixth loan to  Greece  and a faster start
for a permanent rescue fund to stem Europe’s debt crisis. An
Oct. 23 summit of euro leaders looms as a deadline for a
breakthrough in combating the crisis.  Currencies such as the Australian and New Zealand dollars
may appreciate more than the euro until greater detail emerges
on how  Europe  will implement any plan to insulate its banks from
the region’s debt woes, Deutsche Bank’s Horner said.  The U.S. will intensify its call for forceful action from
Europe at a meeting of Group of 20 nations in Paris this week,
 Lael Brainard , the Treasury undersecretary for international
affairs, said yesterday. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
will attend the G-20 finance ministers meeting beginning today.  The euro has climbed 1.8 percent over the past month, the
best performer after the Swedish krona among 10 developed market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Peg Speculation  The yen advanced against 10 of its 16 major counterparts,
rebounding from declines against the dollar and euro yesterday.  “There’s talk of exporters buying the yen,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore .
“Their purchases are probably related to the Japanese
currency’s weakness versus the dollar and the euro.”  The yen reached its weakest level in a month against its
U.S. and European counterparts yesterday as talk of a yen peg to
the dollar weakened the currency, according to  Tony Allen ,
global head of foreign-exchange trading in Sydney at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. Today’s move “is people taking
profit,” he said.  Japan on Aug. 4 sold the yen to stem its advance. The  Swiss
National Bank  on Sept. 6 set a minimum exchange rate of 1.20
francs per euro and said it will defend the target with the
“utmost determination” if needed.  Japan ’s central bank also bolstered in August an asset-
buying fund to 15 trillion yen ($195 billion) from 10 trillion
yen, while leaving its target interest rate near zero percent.
The Bank of Japan’s members “shared the view that it was
appropriate for the time being to steadily implement the
purchase of financial assets and monitor the spread of its
effects,” according to a  record  of the bank’s Sept. 6-7 meeting
published today.  Australian Jobs  Australia’s dollar gained for a second day against the U.S.
currency after the statistics bureau in Sydney said the number
of people employed rose by 20,400, compared with a revised drop
of 10,500 in August. That was more than twice the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The so-called
Aussie rose 0.4 percent to $1.0198.  China ’s yuan fell 0.3 percent to 6.3779 per dollar after
government data showed exports rose in September at the slowest
pace in seven months and the  trade surplus  shrank. The People’s
Bank of China weakened its daily  reference rate  0.22 percent to
6.3737, the biggest decline since November last year. The
currency is allowed to fluctuate a maximum 0.5 percent on either
side of the fixing.  “China may slow the pace of yuan gains as exports show
more significant slowdown,” said Edmond Law, deputy head of
foreign-exchange at BWC Capital Markets in  Hong Kong . “Exports
remain an important engine for China’s growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  