-- 
Teva, Baxter Must Pay $90 Million Punitive Damages for Propofol

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   V a l e r i e   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-10-13T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/teva-baxter-may-pay-90-million-for-propofol-vials-correct-.html
A jury said  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  must pay $90
million in punitive damages for selling reusable vials of the
anesthetic Propofol that a colonoscopy patient blamed for his
hepatitis.  Jurors in state court in Las Vegas yesterday ordered Teva
Parenteral Medicines Inc. and Baxter Healthcare Corp. to pay so-
called punishment damages for selling Propofol in vials large
enough to be reused by doctors. Lawyers for  Michael Washington 
and his wife alleged the retired U.S. Air Force mechanic was
diagnosed with Hepatitis C in 2007 after getting the anesthetic
from a reused vial.  It’s the third punitive-damage verdict against the Baxter
unit and the unit of Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva over a
hepatitis outbreak in  Nevada  tied to Propofol. Another Las Vegas
jury Oct. 10 awarded three colonoscopy patients more than $162
million in punitive damages over the companies’ Propofol
marketing practices. The first case to go to trial produced a
$500 million punitive verdict.  “We believe that the allegations against Teva are without
merit and we plan to appeal this decision,” Denise Bradley, a
U.S.-based spokeswoman for Teva, said in an e-mailed statement.
 Deborah Spak , a spokeswoman for Deerfield, Illinois-based
Baxter, didn’t immediately return a phone call and an e-mails
seeking comment on the award.  Jury Deliberations  Jurors in Washington’s case deliberated more than three
hours yesterday before finding Teva should pay $60 million in
punitive damages and Baxter should pay $30 million, bringing the
total awarded to  Washington  and his wife, Josephine, to $104
million.  The same panel awarded the couple a total $14 million in
compensatory damages Oct. 10. That was $4 million more than the
Nevada residents’ lawyers had originally sought in actual
damages.  “I’m relieved it’s over and I hope this verdict stops this
from ever happening to anyone else,” Washington said in a
interview outside the courtroom.  Teva makes Propofol and San Francisco-based  McKesson Corp. (MCK) 
serves as its current U.S. distributor. Baxter sold the drug for
Teva until 2009, according to court filings.  McKesson isn’t a defendant in Washington’s case. Teva has
agreed to cover all damage awards arising from the Nevada cases
on behalf of the distributors, according to court filings.  Oversized Vials  The drug is an intravenous agent used for sedation or
anesthesia, according to Teva’s  website . The patients’ lawyers
allege Teva intentionally sold Propofol in oversized vials to
encourage doctors to reuse them, even with the risk of spreading
blood-borne diseases such as hepatitis.  In the first Propofol case to go to trial in  Las Vegas ,
jurors awarded  Henry Chanin , a private-school principal, and his
wife $5.1 million in compensatory damages and $500 million in
punitive damages against Teva and Baxter. Chanin argued he
developed Hepatitis C after getting tainted Propofol during a
colonoscopy.  Teva faces almost 300 lawsuits stemming from a hepatitis
 outbreak  in southern Nevada, the company said in a regulatory
filing last month. Probes by Nevada health officials and
regulators from the federal  Centers for Disease Control  and
Prevention blamed the reuse of Propofol vials for infecting
patients with hepatitis.  Last year, a state grand jury indicted  Dr. Dipak Desai , who
ran the Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada at the time of the
outbreak, on criminal charges. Many of the hepatitis-related
cases were linked to that colonoscopy clinic. Desai also faces
federal charges over the outbreak.  Damage Guidelines  During arguments over punitive damages yesterday, Friedman
told jurors Teva “repeatedly chose do to the wrong thing” in
its Propofol marketing and should be punished for its miscues.  He asked the panel to award as much as nine times the $7
million it awarded Washington and his wife in compensatory
damages against Teva and as much as six times against Baxter.  The U.S. Supreme Court’s guidelines for punitive damage
verdicts limit the amount of acceptable awards to no more than
nine times the compensatory damages handed down.  In their argument, lawyers for Teva and Baxter urged jurors
to forgo handing down punitive damages, saying the companies’
Propofol marketing tactics weren’t “despicable.”  By ordering the drugmakers to pay a total of $14 million in
compensatory damages, the panel made clear to company officials
“that we didn’t get it right,” Glenn Kerner, one of Teva’s
attorneys, said. “We heard you loud and clear.”  More Profitable  Lawyers for Washington argued that Teva pushed sales of
large Propofol vials to Nevada colonoscopy clinics because they
were more profitable while knowing the jumbo-sized containers
increased the risk of the spread of blood-borne diseases such as
hepatitis.  Attorneys for Teva and Baxter countered that improperly
sanitized medical equipment, not reused Propofol containers,
were to blame for the hepatitis outbreak and drugmakers
shouldn’t be held responsible for colonoscopy clinics’ shoddy
medical practices.  “This is the third time a jury has rejected claims” that
doctors and their staffs alone caused the hepatitis outbreak,
Rick Friedman, one of Washington’s lawyers, said in an
interview.  The civil case is Washington v. Endoscopy Center of
Southern Nevada LLC, 07A572224, District Court for  Clark County ,
Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Valerie Miller in Las Vegas at  valeriemusicmagic@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  