-- 
Everything Everywhere Is Said to Request Delay for Sale of U.K. Spectrum

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-10-12T11:16:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/everything-everywhere-said-to-ask-for-u-k-spectrum-sale-delay.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France
Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Everything Everywhere venture in the U.K. is in
talks with European regulators about delaying the sale of
frequencies potentially valued at more than $660 million,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Everything Everywhere was ordered to sell some spectrum as
a condition of its formation in 2009. The venture is talking to
the European Commission about postponing the transaction
following repeated delays for a separate U.K. auction involving
new frequencies, the person said, declining to be identified as
the talks are private. The company also asked if it can reduce
the amount of spectrum it needs to divest, the person said.  Everything Everywhere, based in  London , became the largest
mobile-phone operator in the U.K. after the merger of the two
companies’ local units, overtaking  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2 unit.
Rivals  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and O2 would be most likely to bid for
the venture’s spectrum when it becomes available, according to
 Matthew Howett , an analyst at research firm Ovum in London.  Everything Everywhere declined to comment. Amelia Torres, a
spokeswoman for the European Commission, also declined to
comment, saying that “follow-up discussions on merger
commitments are generally confidential.”  The spectrum the venture needs to sell could be worth about
425 million pounds ($666 million), based on prices paid for
similar amounts in  Italy  in September, according to  Daniel
Gleeson , a research analyst at IHS Screen Digest in London.  U.K. Auction Woes  British regulator Ofcom last week delayed a U.K. auction of
mobile-phone frequencies for high-speed networks to at least the
fourth quarter of 2012 after operators including O2 and Vodafone
objected to the auction design. The sale was intended for the
first quarter of next year after more than two years of delays.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s 3 network may be most vulnerable
to an auction delay, after the company said last month it may
face congestion in its network by the end of next year.  “There is damage being done by the delay,” said  James
Barford , an analyst at Enders Analysis in London. “The
operators are making decisions about building networks and
capacity right now, so those decisions are not as good as they
would otherwise be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  