-- 
Levi Says Shoppers Balk at Prices, Spurring Caution for Holidays

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-10-12T15:37:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/levi-says-shoppers-balk-at-prices-spurring-caution-for-holidays.html
Levi Strauss & Co. is bracing for
tepid  consumer spending  this holiday season after back-to-school
shoppers in the U.S. balked at higher prices on its namesake
jeans and Dockers pants.  “It is hard to imagine a very robust holiday season
compared to last year,” Chief Financial Officer Blake Jorgensen
said in a telephone interview yesterday from  San Francisco ,
where closely held Levi is based. “We remain cautious around
where the future is going over the next couple of quarters.”  Some shoppers at J.C. Penney Co.,  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  and
 Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  stores bought fewer pairs of Levi jeans in the
quarter that ended Aug. 28, which included the start of the
back-to-school season, Jorgensen said. To clear out excess
merchandise, Levi cut prices it had raised in the past year to
cover soaring cotton costs, hurting profitability.  Levi’s gross margin, the fraction of sales remaining after
subtracting the cost of goods sold, narrowed to 47 percent in
the quarter from 49 percent a year earlier, the company said
yesterday. Revenue advanced 8.6 percent to $1.2 billion.  “Price increases in the value channel were much harder on
the consumer,” said Jorgensen, 51. Regular prices of those
jeans were $30 to $50 in the quarter, after jumping by $5 to $15
to make up for higher costs, he said.  “Your average family with two or three kids may have
bought two pairs of jeans before,” he said. “You are buying
one now.”  Wal-Mart Sales  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, said
said today during an investors meeting that U.S. apparel sales
are improving while comparable-store clothing sales still are
declining from last year. The Bentonville, Arkansas-based
company said it plans to double its volume of holiday television
advertising.  U.S. retail sales growth will slow to 2.8 percent during
the holiday season, restrained by decelerating job growth, a
weak housing market and a volatile stock market, the  National
Retail Federation  said last week.  The increase to an estimated $465.6 billion in retail sales
in November and December compares with a 5.2 percent jump last
year and the 10-year average of 2.6 percent, according to the
Washington-based NRF.  Jorgensen said other apparel makers may have misjudged how
much they could raise prices.  “Most of the industry is making production bets six to 12
months in advance,” he said. “Normally, that is not a problem.
But in a year in which prices dramatically moved due to input
costs, you’ve got some guessing around how the consumer is going
to react.”  Average Consumers  Penney, Sears and Kohl’s cater to “the core population of
America” that’s worried about jobs and “took pause” in August
amid political rancor in  Washington  and signs the economy may be
slipping back into recession, Jorgensen said.  “Until you see real job growth, you’re not going to see
real economic momentum,” Jorgensen said. “The U.S. has a long-
term issue with unemployment that for the average consumer is
going to remain challenging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  