-- 
Ex-Goldman Traders’ Hedge Fund Shuts in Sydney as Macro Strategy Falters

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-10-13T05:18:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/ex-goldman-traders-hedge-fund-shuts-as-macro-strategy-falters.html
Global Trading Strategies , a Sydney-
based hedge fund founded by three former Goldman Sachs JBWere
Pty. traders, has returned investors their money after its
strategy of betting on global economic trends faltered.  The fund, which peaked at $1.2 billion in 2008 after
starting in 2005, finished trading July 31 after more than a
year of negative returns, Chief Operating Officer Murray Chatfield said in a telephone interview yesterday. Global
Trading employed 24 people at its peak, he said.  “It’s actually quite tough” for some hedge funds at the
moment, said Damien Hatfield, director at Triple A Partners
Australia, a Sydney-based hedge-fund adviser. “If markets trend
up and markets trend down, they’re good environments for  hedge
funds . But when they go up and down sharply they’re not good
because a lot of these guys are trying to find a trend and stay
with it.”  Hedge funds, investment pools that can wager on or against
any asset, had their worst performance in more than a year in
September, slumping 3.2 percent from the previous month, as
Greece edged closer to defaulting on its sovereign debt,
according to the Bloomberg aggregate hedge-fund index. Macro
funds decreased 2.4 percent in September and 3.3 percent in the
year’s first nine months.  Founded by Brett Allender, Andrew Peden and Karl Mayer, the
Global Trading fund more than doubled original investors’ money
by trading currencies and fixed income to bet on global economic
trends such as shifts in the shape of interest rate curves.  Strategy Stumbles  The strategy struggled as markets became less determined by
economics and more by politics, Chatfield said.  “If you print endless amounts of money, you create
inflation and will have to raise  interest rates ,” Chatfield
said. “At the moment that’s not working as people aren’t
spending money. But at some stage you’ll get inflation. You have
a timing issue.”  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of global stocks tumbled 8.9 percent
in September as Greece edged closer to defaulting on its
sovereign debt and the cost of insuring western European
countries’ loans rose to records. The  Federal Reserve  said Sept.
21 that there are “significant downside risks” in the  U.S.
economy , prompting the central bank to announce a $400 billion
debt-trading plan to spur growth as the recovery from the worst
contraction since the Great Depression falters.  European Commission President Jose Barroso yesterday called
for a reinforcement of crisis-hit banks, the payout of a sixth
loan to  Greece  and a faster start to a permanent rescue fund.  Not ‘Conductive’  “The principals decided that the current environment
wasn’t conducive to their trading style and they thought it
better to hand money back to investors,” Chatfield said.  Some 99 percent of the $400 million left in the fund on
July 31 was returned to investors within six weeks, with the
balance being held for regulatory reasons, Chatfield said.  “A lot of our investors didn’t want us to do it, but we
thought it was the correct thing to do,” he said. “At some
point we’d make a decision on how and when to re-enter the
market.”  Allender helped spin Global Trading Strategies out of
Goldman Sachs JBWere, which he joined in 2000 after holding
roles as chief economist and joint head of proprietary trading
with Peden at Schroders  Australia  Ltd., said Chatfield.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  