-- 
Mexico Helped U.S. Prevent Iranian Plot to Kill Ambassador

-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 
2011-10-12T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/mexico-helped-u-s-prevent-iranian-plot-to-kill-ambassador.html
Mexico  helped the U.S. capture an
Iranian man allegedly plotting to kill  Saudi Arabia ’s ambassador
to the U.S. by denying him entry, a Mexican official said.  The Mexican government returned Manssor Arbabsiar to the
U.S. on Sept. 28, where he was arrested at John F Kennedy
International Airport, deputy Foreign Affairs Minister Julian
Ventura told reporters in Mexico City yesterday. Mexico worked
in coordination with the U.S. “from the first moment” on
Arbabsiar’s arrest, Ventura said.  The U.S.  Justice Department  charged Arbabsiar and another
man in a purported conspiracy to murder Saudi Arabian Ambassador
Adel Al-Jubeir, according to papers filed in Manhattan federal
court.  Arbabsiar met on several occasions in Mexico with a
confidential source of the Drug Enforcement Administration who
was posing as a member of a drug cartel, according to the
complaint filed in Manhattan federal court. The undercover
informant told Arbabsiar he would have to pay $1.5 million to
carry out the hit against the diplomat, the government said.  ABC News, citing unnamed U.S. agents, said that the
Iranian-American Arbabsiar thought he was dealing with a member
of the Zetas, one of Mexico’s most-violent criminal gangs. The
U.S. complaint only described the group as “a large,
sophisticated and violent drug-trafficking cartel” operating on
both sides of the U.S. border and having access to military-
grade weapons and explosives.  Meanest Drug Gang  The Zetas’ reputation for brazen assassinations may be
attractive to international terrorists, though no Mexican cartel
would risk U.S. retaliation by carrying out an attack on
American soil, said George Grayson, professor of government at
the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia.  “The Zetas are a group that can commit any crime any
place, anywhere,” said Grayson, who has written several books
about Mexico’s drug cartels. “But that doesn’t obviate the fact
that they have no record for seeking to carry out hits in the
U.S.”  The U.S. informant who posed as a cartel member had been
charged in connection with a narcotics offense by authorities,
prosecutors said in the criminal complaint. In exchange for his
cooperation, the state charges were dismissed and he began to
assist the U.S. in numerous seizures of narcotics, according to
the complaint.  The U.S. said Arbabsiar allegedly conspired with Gholam
Shakuri, a member of  Iran ’s “Qods Force.” Arbabsiar, a
naturalized U.S. citizen, wired more than $100,000 to the U.S.
as part of the alleged plot, the government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  