-- 
Mexican Bonds Rally as Economic Optimism Rises; Peso Gains

-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-10-12T21:48:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/mexican-bonds-rally-for-sixth-day-on-optimism-about-europe-peso-advances.html
Mexico ’s peso bonds posted their
longest rally in nine weeks as optimism Europe will contain its
sovereign debt crisis fueled demand for higher-yielding assets.  The yield on the country’s benchmark peso-denominated bond
due in 2024 fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
6.54 percent at the close of trading in Mexico City, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price of the security rose
0.55 centavo to 130.44 centavos per peso. The yield has dropped
46 basis points over six straight days, the longest streak since
the period ended Aug. 4, when yields dropped nine days in a row.  European Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said there is a fairly good chance of averting a European
“calamity.” In a pre-recorded speech to a Dublin conference,
he said consensus on resolving  Europe ’s debt crisis is in the
making. Slovak parties reached an agreement to approve Europe’s
enhanced bailout fund, paving the way for a second vote this
week that will complete its ratification process across the 17
euro countries.  “Things are improving a little bit, and therefore risk
premium is decreasing,” said  Benito Berber , a strategist at
Nomura Securities Inc. “Those bonds particularly in the long-
end of Mexico, and specifically this bond, should be rallying.”  The peso gained 0.8 percent to 13.2870 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 13.3988 yesterday. The currency’s 2 percent rise over the
past week has pared its loss for the year to 7.1 percent.  “In the last week or so we’ve seen a clear trend toward
appreciation,” Berber said. “It’s a function of this better
news out of Europe. Also, the economic data from the U.S. is
telling us that the economy wasn’t as bad as we thought.”  Employers in the U.S., the destination for about 80 percent
of Mexico’s exports, added more jobs than forecast in September,
Labor Department data showed Oct. 7.  Traders triggered $450 million in dollar options today, the
central bank said on its website. The bank has been buying as
much as $600 million through the options every month since March
2010 to bolster foreign reserves. The options allow the central
bank to accumulate dollars, insuring against outflows of capital
and limiting the peso’s appreciation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  