-- 
Fed’s Plosser Sees No ‘Major Impact’ on U.S. Recovery From Operation Twist

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-10-12T18:55:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/fed-s-plosser-sees-no-major-impact-on-u-s-recovery-from-operation-twist.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said the central bank’s so-called
Operation Twist won’t have a “major impact” on the speed of
the economic recovery and that he expects U.S. growth to
“gradually accelerate” to about 3 percent next year.  “The U.S. economic recovery will continue and gradually
strengthen over time,” Plosser said in a speech in Philadelphia
today. “Although the downside risks around this forecast are
apparent, I do not believe we are on the verge of a double-dip
recession.”  He forecast growth of less than 2 percent this year, and
said  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis may pose the “greatest
uncertainty” to the outlook.  Plosser dissented against the  Federal Open Market
Committee ’s last two decisions to expand its record monetary
stimulus, joining  Richard Fisher  of  Dallas  and Narayana Kocherlakota of  Minneapolis . The regional Fed presidents pose
the most opposition within the FOMC since 1992, voting against
last month’s plan to swap $400 billion of shorter-term
securities in the Fed’s portfolio for longer-dated ones in an
effort to bring down interest rates and spur growth.  Operation Twist  Operation Twist risks damaging the Fed’s credibility and is
likely to reduce yields on the 10-year Treasury note by “less
than 20 basis points,” Plosser said. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point. His remarks at the Zell/Lurie Real Estate
Center fall members’ meeting today were similar to those given
in Radnor,  Pennsylvania , on Sept. 29.  “Operation twist in my view is a fiscal operation. It is
not monetary policy,” Plosser said in a question-and-answer
session after his speech. “What we’re doing with Operation
Twist could be done by the  U.S. Treasury ,” and the Treasury
could “undo it on their own” by issuing longer-term
securities.  Plosser, Fisher and Kocherlakota also dissented when U.S.
central bankers in August said they planned to hold interest
rates near zero until at least mid-2013. That replaced their
prior pledge to keep rates low for an “extended period.”  “The actions taken in August and September risk
undermining the Fed’s credibility by giving the impression that
we think such policies can have a major impact on the speed of
the recovery,” Plosser said. “It is my assessment that they
will not.”  He said the August and September actions “will do little
to improve the near-term prospects for economic growth or
employment, but they do pose some real risks.”  Plosser forecast that the  unemployment rate  will fall to 8
percent to 8.5 percent at the end of 2012 from 9.1 percent in
September, and that inflation will “moderate” as commodity
prices decline. He also renewed his calls for the Fed to adopt
an explicit target for inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  