-- 
Fed’s Fisher Says Central Bank Has Done Everything Possible to Boost Jobs

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-10-12T20:16:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/fed-s-fisher-says-central-bank-has-done-everything-possible-to-boost-jobs.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said that while too many Americans
remain unable to find jobs, central bankers have done as much as
possible to shore up the labor market without sparking
inflation.  “There are limits to what a central bank can do,” Fisher
said during a speech today in Abilene,  Texas . “We can provide
fuel, but we cannot provide incentives for those who create
jobs” to “step on the gas pedal.”  The U.S. is struggling with stubborn unemployment even as
the central bank “may have overfilled the tank” by providing
too much liquidity to the economy, the Dallas Fed chief said.
The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent in September even as
American employers added 103,000 jobs and payroll figures for
the prior two months were revised higher.  “The issue our economy is plagued with is unemployment,”
Fisher said at a community forum sponsored by the bank and held
at Abilene Christian University. “Too many people are out of
work.”  Minutes of the Fed’s most recent meeting last month showed
some policy makers wanted to keep additional asset purchases as
an option to boost the economy, and that officials saw
“considerable uncertainty” that U.S. growth will pick up.  The Sept. 20-21 debate culminated in the Federal Open
Market Committee’s decision to replace $400 billion of
Treasuries in the central bank’s portfolio with longer-term debt
to reduce borrowing costs. Fisher, 62, dissented against the
move, saying he did not prefer further easing.  ‘Operation Twist’  The so-called Operation Twist is not an “effective way”
to deal with the economy right now and fiscal authorities, not
the central bank, “are the problem,” Fisher said in response
to audience questions after his speech. He called lawmakers’
attitude toward U.S. fiscal issues “disgraceful,” and said
further monetary accommodation would only encourage Congress to
do less.  Stocks surged, briefly erasing the Dow Jones Industrial
Average’s 2011 loss, as European leaders provided a road map of
plans to tame the debt crisis and the Fed released its minutes.
The Dow rose 0.9 percent to 11,518.85 at the close in  New
York .  Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser today echoed
Fisher’s views on Operation Twist by saying the move won’t have
a “major impact” on the speed of the economic recovery.  Plosser on Economy  “The U.S. economic recovery will continue and gradually
strengthen over time,” Plosser said in the text of remarks
given in Philadelphia. “Although the downside risks around this
forecast are apparent, I do not believe we are on the verge of a
double-dip recession.”  Fisher has been president of the Dallas Fed since 2005. As
a voting member of the FOMC in 2008, he dissented five times in
favor of tighter policy. This year, he challenged the
committee’s Aug. 9 pledge to keep the benchmark U.S. interest
rate low through at least mid-2013, preferring instead to
maintain a previous commitment to do so for “an extended
period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  