-- 
Fed’s Pianalto: Economy ’Struggling to Recover’

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-10-12T18:16:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/fed-s-pianalto-says-low-rates-needed-for-economy-struggling-to-recover-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said the central bank is seeking to
keep  interest rates  low because the  U.S. economy  hasn’t fully
recovered from a recession two years ago.  “As we are all too painfully aware, the U.S. economy is
still struggling to recover from the great recession,” Pianalto
said in Akron,  Ohio . “This accommodative monetary policy stance
we have is about keeping interest rates low so businesses can
borrow” to increase investment and hiring.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress last week the Fed
could take further action to aid a recovery that’s “close to
faltering” with unemployment at or above 9 percent since April.
The European debt crisis, political haggling in the U.S. and a
plunge in stock prices have led to a drop in consumer and
business confidence that may keep hurting spending and hiring.  “Our policy decisions are driven by one thing: to get our
economy back on track,” Pianalto said to the University of
Akron College of Business Administration. The Fed is doing what
it can to encourage stronger growth, she said.  Policy makers voted Sept. 21 to push down mortgage and
other loan rates in an effort to spur growth and employment. The
Fed plans to extend maturities of the Treasuries in its
portfolio by buying $400 billion of long-term debt and selling
an equal amount of shorter-term securities.  “I am fully supportive of the actions the FOMC has taken
and feel we are running the appropriate monetary policy based on
the outlook we have for both growth and inflation,” Pianalto
said in a response to a question from the audience after the
speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  