-- 
5 Questions for Pimco's Mihir Worah on Inflation Worries

-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 
2011-10-12T16:06:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/five-questions-for-pimco-s-mihir-worah.html
The next 20 years will have higher inflation and slower growth
than the last two decades, and investors need to be
prepared, says Mihir Worah, a managing director at Pacific
Investment Management Co.  Worah heads the Pimco Inflation Response Multi-Asset
Strategy fund. Launched at the end of August, it combines
several different ways to protect against inflation. Worah
discussed the strategy with Bloomberg.com’s Ben Steverman.
Edited excerpts of their conversation follow:  1. How worried should investors be about inflation?  As far as the next six months to a year, not worried. With
the 9 percent unemployment rate and the global economy slowing
down, there are not going to be a lot of inflationary
pressures.  That said, the big picture in our opinion is fundamentally
changing.  Asia  has moved from 20 years of exporting ever-lower
prices to the West, to now -- through commodity
prices, currencies and wages -- starting to export higher
prices to the West. Also in the West, the trend of ever-higher
productivity has come to a halt.  So the future has a slightly “stagflationary” smell to it.
Not 1970s-style stagflation, with double-digit inflation, but
lower growth and higher inflation than the last 20 years.
Today’s environment just puts an exclamation mark on it: The
 U.S. economy  is growing at about 1 percent, while inflation is
running at 3.5 percent.  2. Why has inflation been so relatively high, and what can
investors do about it?  Oil prices  have come off the peak somewhat, but in March
and April, during the Arab Spring, they went up significantly.
Gasoline prices are higher today than when we started the
year. The second driver of inflation has been the cost of
shelter. As buying housing gets less attractive, there are
more and more people renting. Rents are going up. The cost of
shelter, or rent, in the U.S. is 30 to 35 percent of the
inflation basket. Also, past weakness in the dollar and last
year’s increase in cotton prices are feeding into higher
clothing prices.  With all the volatility in the markets, everyone is very
concerned with capital preservation but no one is focused on
inflation. Sneaky, higher-than-expected inflation is another
way of eroding your standard of living. It’s something people
have to hedge themselves against or prepare themselves for.  Treasury-Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, should be
the cornerstone of any inflation-hedging program. Their value
is guaranteed by the government to go up one-for-one with
inflation.  3. The yields on TIPS are pitifully low now, even with
inflation creeping higher. What's going on?  Two years ago, 10-year TIPS gave you inflation plus 2
percent. That was very attractive. Today TIPS guarantee that
you’ll keep up with inflation but don’t give you any more.
You’re not getting any other return on your investment.  I view them as an insurance policy. They’re not your entire
portfolio, nor are they going to be return generators. In the
last year, TIPS have returned 7 percent. This year, TIPS have
returned close to 10 percent. Going forward, I don’t think
TIPS are going to give you those kind of returns, but you
still need a little bit in your portfolio. If inflation really
runs away, TIPS are one of the only things that will protect
you.  At Pimco we’ve offered different inflation-hedging
solutions. We’ve got a flagship commodity fund. A fund that
invests in real estate investment trusts is a good inflation
hedge in the U.S. because REITs have to pay out 90 percent of
the rents they get in the form of dividends. As every
developed-market central bank tries to depreciate their own
currency in order to make their economies more
competitive, gold starts getting more attractive as a hedge.  So we’ve had all these piecemeal solutions. We decided to
come up with a fund that is a one-stop shop. It has a baseline
allocation to all these different inflation hedging asset
classes: TIPS, commodities, REITs, gold and emerging market
currencies. It’s about 40 percent in TIPS and 15 percent each
in each of these other asset classes. We will actively manage
the mix, based on what we think would be the best hedge for
inflation and the best return driver. [The no-load version of
the Pimco Inflation Response Multi-Asset Strategy Fund (PDRMX)
charges a management fee of 1.1 percent per year.]  4. Some see stocks as a pretty good inflation hedge. What’s
your view?  It depends on the time period. Stocks are a good inflation
hedge in an economy like we had in the 1990s with strong
growth and modest inflation. But if you have
hyperinflation, stocks are going to get crushed. So, if like
the 1970s -- or like we saw for a couple months this year --
inflation is coming from higher and higher commodity
prices, stocks might not be a great inflation hedge.  5. What are the risks of worrying too much about inflation?  Our expectation is a move from a disinflationary epoch to
an inflationary epoch. Clearly there are a lot of minefields
along the way and what’s happening in  Europe  is the most
important one. You’re worrying about inflation too much if you
put all your assets in inflation-hedging programs.  In general, most investors are underinvested in inflation
hedges, because we’ve gone through 20 years of low inflation.
Strategies such as these are volatile, so you’ve got to make
sure that you’ve got the right allocation, whether it’s 5
percent or 10 percent of your broader portfolio. 