-- 
Florida’s Scott Wants Unemployed to Work for State Benefits

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-10-12T18:54:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/florida-s-scott-wants-jobless-to-work-for-their-state-aid.html
Florida  Governor  Rick Scott  has a
message for people receiving unemployment compensation from his
state: if you want it, you’ll have to work for it.  The first-term Republican, who campaigned on promises to
bring 700,000 jobs to Florida over seven years, today proposed
mandatory retraining for residents getting state unemployment
assistance.  “Rather than continue to simply pay out benefits for those
out of work, Florida must focus its efforts on ensuring that it
can offer the most able workforce in the nation,” Scott said in
a  statement  unveiling his 2012 agenda for the legislative
session that begins in January.  It’s not the first time Scott, 58, has taken measures to
tighten requirements for government benefits. He signed
legislation in May that makes recipients of aid for needy
families submit to drug tests. The law goes further than in
Arizona and  Missouri , which test recipients only if officials
have a suspicion of drug use.  Georgia , under a program started in 2003, also requires
jobless workers receiving state aid to be trained at  companies .
President  Barack Obama  proposed a national system based on the
Georgia model in his $447 billion jobs stimulus plan last month.  Florida’s unemployment rate in August was 10.7 percent, 1.6
percentage points higher than the national average. The state
has lost more than 800,000 jobs since peak employment in March
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Previous Measure  Scott has already taken steps to encourage people to get
off the unemployment rolls. He signed a  law  in June reducing the
time Floridians can receive state compensation to 23 weeks from
26 weeks and requiring them to contact at least five employers a
week. The law also makes recipients apply online, rather than
over the phone, and take an initial skills review.  “Applying for a benefit that is among the lowest in the
country” was made “much more difficult” by the law, George
Wentworth, a senior staff attorney at the National Employment
Law Project, a New York-based nonprofit that promotes policies
to support working families, said in a telephone interview.  Scott today also proposed raising the amount of business
profit exempt from taxes to $50,000 from $25,000. The former
hospital-chain chief executive officer elected in November
campaigned on promises to eliminate the corporate tax. The
Legislature passed the initial $25,000 exemption in May.  Scott also proposed increased scrutiny of 1,633 Florida
special districts, nonprofits and quasi-governmental entities
with the authority to assess taxes. A  task force  is examining
hospital districts, which account for about a quarter of the
$15.4 billion of revenue raised by special districts, he said.  He signed a law earlier this year reducing taxes levied by
the state’s five water-management districts by about 30 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  