-- 
Foodmakers Win Scaled Back Guidelines for Kids’ Snack Foods

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-10-12T21:53:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/foodmakers-win-scaled-back-guidelines-for-kids-snack-foods.html
U.S. regulators, facing resistance
from companies including  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
company, and  Kellogg Co. (K) , scaled back proposed guidelines that
may have limited advertising to children for food with added
sugars, salt and saturated fat.  The final guidelines from four agencies will recommend
restricting food ads targeted only at children younger than 12,
 David Vladeck , director of the Federal Trade Commission’s
Consumer Protection Bureau, said  today  at a hearing.  Recommendations  proposed in April by a working group of
officials from the FTC and three other U.S. agencies would have
urged companies not to market food to anyone under age 18,
through “child- or teen-oriented” advertisements, cartoon
characters, models or activities. The voluntary restrictions
would have covered foods with more than 13 grams of added
sugars, 210 grams of sodium or 1 gram of saturated fat.  “The draft recommendations we issued were ambitious,”
Vladeck said at a joint hearing of two House Energy and Commerce
subcommittees. “As we studied the comments, however, we
realized that perhaps we were too ambitious.”  The Obama administration is trying to reduce a child
obesity rate that has almost tripled since 1980 to 17 percent,
or 12.5 million Americans, William Dietz, the  Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention ’s director of nutrition and
obesity programs, said at the hearing.  Guidelines Opposed  Nestle and Kellogg, the biggest U.S. breakfast-cereal
maker, are among companies that called the plan overly broad and
unworkable. The recommendations would have caused Kellogg, of
 Battle Creek ,  Michigan , “severe financial harm” because the
company may have had to remove Tony the Tiger from its Frosted
Flakes boxes in order to comply, Kellogg said in a  July 14
letter  to the working group.  The working group “has not provided any evidence that its
proposed restrictions on marketing will impact youth obesity
rates,” Nestle said the same day in a letter to the FTC.  Margo Wootan, nutrition policy director at the Center for
Science in the Public Interest, a Washington-based consumer
advocacy group, said the recommendations were weakened.  Industry “resorted to a misleading campaign of fear-
mongering” to kill the working group’s proposal, she said.  Laurie MacDonald, a Nestle spokeswoman, and spokesmen for
Kellogg didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.  ‘Much in Common’  The working group, also comprised of officials from the
 Food and Drug Administration , the Department of Agriculture and
the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , is easing the
recommendations to address concerns raised by industry and
lawmakers, Vladeck said. The revisions will “share much in
common” with a less stringent set of guidelines offered by the
Council of Better Business Bureaus, he said.  The council’s  Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising
Initiative  announced in July that member companies including
Nestle, Kellogg and  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  will stop marketing some
foods to children after 2013 unless sugar, sodium and fat are
reduced. The industry’s nutrition criteria includes a 350-
calorie limit for main dishes marketed to kids younger than 12,
and caps child-targeted cereals at 10 grams of added and
naturally occurring sugar combined. Kellogg’s current sugar
standard is 12 grams for cereals advertised to children.  The framework of the council’s program “has much to
recommend it, and I’m confident that this framework will be
reflected in the final working group report,” Vladeck said.  The working group should withdraw its proposed guidelines
instead of revising them, Republican lawmakers and industry
representatives including Jim Baughman, senior marketing counsel
at  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB) , the world’s biggest soup maker, said at
the hearing.  While U.S. officials emphasized the guidelines will be
voluntary, Baughman said companies will feel compelled to follow
them because “these four agencies are the agencies that
regulate our business, that have the power to shut us down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  