-- 
Forgiving Goldman Sachs’s $16 Million Tax Interest Is a Mistake, U.K. Says

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 
2011-10-12T17:13:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/forgiving-goldman-sachs-tax-interest-was-mistake-hmrc-says.html
The U.K.'s tax authority “made a
mistake” in agreeing to forgive  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  as
much as 10 million pounds ($16 million) of interest on unpaid
tax, its most senior official said.  “I’m entirely responsible for the Goldman Sachs mistake,”
Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs Permanent Secretary for Tax
David Hartnett told a parliamentary committee in London today.
It was investigating his role in an agreement HMRC made with the
New York-based investment bank in December.  The deal resulted in Goldman Sachs paying back taxes it
owed on National Insurance payments for bankers’ bonuses, while
foregoing interest payments. According to a Guardian report
yesterday, which cited documents leaked to Private Eye magazine,
Goldman Sachs had avoided paying National Insurance tax on
bonuses for bankers working in  London  by setting up an entity in
the British Virgin Islands. The offshore unit technically
employed the staff, which were seconded to the U.K. capital.  A Goldman Sachs spokeswoman in London declined to comment.  Hartnett said he and his colleagues created a “bespoke”
tax arrangement for Goldman Sachs in order to resolve a “huge
relationship issue” between the bank and HMRC.  The reprieve
was worth “less than 10 million pounds” to Goldman Sachs,
Hartnett said. He declined to elaborate further, citing tax
confidentiality rules.  “Hartnett should resign,” Jesse Norman, the Conservative
Member of Parliament for Hereford and South Herefordshire, who
sits on the Treasury Select Committee, said on his website. “In
my constituency I have hundreds of small firms, for whom the
Revenue’s penalties on unpaid tax are 200 times as high on
average as those on large companies. This settlement with
Goldman is the last straw.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  