-- 
BP Buys European Jet Fuel; Trafigura Sells Naphtha: Oil Products

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-10-12T16:32:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/gasoline-crack-near-1-week-high-ice-gasoil-rises-oil-products.html
BP Plc and Vitol Group bought  jet
fuel  cargoes at a lower price than last week. OAO Lukoil’s
Litasco secured its third diesel shipment this week.  Gasoil advanced on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange for
the fifth time in six days. Trafigura Beheer BV sold a naphtha
cargo for more than a deal yesterday.  Light Products  Trafigura sold 12,500 metric tons of naphtha to BP Plc for
$911 a ton for delivery to Rotterdam, according to a Bloomberg
survey of traders and brokers monitoring the Argus Bulletin
Board. Trades were done at $887 and $892 in the past two days.  Gasoline’s premium to naphtha, or reforming margin, is at
the highest level in more than four weeks, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. This may motivate European refiners to use more
naphtha in gasoline, according to Vienna-based JBC Energy GmbH.  “Considering the weak naphtha cracks, this would
incentivize upgrading naphtha to gasoline,” JBC analysts led by
 David Wech  said in a report today.  European naphtha’s discount to Brent was at $6.69 a barrel
today, rebounding from yesterday’s three-month low, according to
PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a London-based broker.  Gasoline for immediate loading in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-
Antwerp traded from $956 to $971 a ton, according to a Bloomberg
survey monitoring the Argus Bulletin Board and Platts. That less
than yesterday’s lowest trade of $963 for the Eurobob grade, to
which ethanol is added to make finished tons.  Middle Distillates  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  sold 30,000 tons of jet fuel to BP,
while Mercuria Energy Trading SA sold the same volume to Vitol,
the survey showed. Both deals were partly priced at a premium of
$76 to November ICE gasoil. Vitol bought a shipment on Oct. 7 at
a premium of $85 to the same contract.  Shell and Koch Industries Inc. failed to secure buyers for
jet fuel on the barge market, offering fuel at premiums of $81
and $84 to November gasoil futures respectively. No deals were
done yesterday.  Litasco bought 10,000 tons of diesel from Gunvor Group
Ltd., the survey showed. Today’s deal was at a $52 premium to
November futures, compared with $47 yesterday.  Gasoil for November delivery added $12.25, or 1.4 percent,
to $917.50 on the ICE exchange as of 5:01 p.m.  London  time. That
contract’s premium to December futures was $8.25 a ton, keeping
the market in so-called backwardation.  A market is described as being backwardation when contracts
closest to expiry cost more than later-dated shipments. This
usually signals near-term scarcity of supply or rising demand.  Residues  Low-sulfur fuel oil traded from $655 to $656 a ton. High-
sulfur barges changed hands from $635.75 to $642 a ton, the
survey showed.  Refineries  OMV Petrom SA will shut its Romanian Petrobrazi refinery
for six weeks of maintenance in the middle of April, Bertram
Muchan, plant operations manager, said. Crude distillation and
coker units will be worked on during the halt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  