-- 
German Banks Say Jose Barroso’s Capital Plan Is Unsuitable

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-10-12T17:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/german-bank-group-says-barroso-s-capitalization-call-not-useful.html
The Association of German Banks said
a proposal from European Commission President  Jose Barroso  to
increase banks’ capital is “unsuitable” as it doesn’t solve
the problem of the current debt crisis.  “Banks increased their capital significantly over the past
months and as a result they are now considerably more resilient
than before,”  Michael Kemmer , head of the BdB group, which
represents lenders including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank
AG (CBK) , said in an e-mailed statement today. “If a stress test with
randomly selected thresholds is being used to determine
additional capital requirements, no serious results can be
expected.”  The commission today proposed measures to coordinate the
recapitalization of banks gripped by the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis, following the work of the  European Banking Authority .
Lenders in the region would temporarily have to meet
“significantly higher”  capital requirements . Banks incapable
of providing the extra buffers should be prohibited from paying
bonuses or dividends, Barroso said.  “Banning dividend payments would be counterproductive, as
it would make capital increases even more difficult,” Kemmer
said in the statement.  European bank stocks advanced for a sixth day, buoyed by
expectations that European governments would make money
available to bolster balance sheets so banks can withstand a
potential Greek bankruptcy. The Bloomberg European bank index
rose 2.9 percent.  Banks may be required to maintain a 9 percent capital
buffer to absorb sovereign risks, up from the 5 percent core
capital level used by the EBA in stress tests in July, according
to a person familiar with discussions at the European Union’s
top banking regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  