-- 
German Stocks Fall for First Day in Seven; Deutsche Bank Drops

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-10-13T16:20:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/german-stocks-gain-for-sixth-day-carmakers-chemicals-rally.html
German stocks declined for the first
day in seven as the  European Central Bank  warned the forced
involvement of the private sector in euro-area bailouts is a
risk to financial stability.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  dropped 5.6 percent after a report that
 Germany ’s biggest lender would fail a European Banking Authority
stress test currently being discussed. EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE)  slid as
Enel SpA,  Italy ’s biggest power company, said it will be forced
to review dividends and spending.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  fell 1.3 percent to 5,914.84 at the
close in  Frankfurt . The measure has dropped 21 percent from this
year’s high on May 2 amid concern global economic growth is
slowing and policy makers are struggling to contain the debt
crisis. The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  declined 1.2 percent today.  “The ECB has strongly advised against all concepts that
are not purely voluntary or that have elements of compulsion,
and has called for the avoidance of any credit events and
selective default or default,” the Frankfurt-based central bank
said in its monthly bulletin today. Private sector involvement
will affect the balance sheets of banks in other euro-area
countries as well as the country concerned, it said.  “Any disagreements on how we come out of this crisis will
generate pressure on markets and specifically on the financial
sector,” said Luis Benguerel, a trader at Interbrokers in
 Barcelona ,  Spain . “We are coming from a solid rally in recent
days on the hopes that the debt crisis may be nearing a
resolution. Anything that may divert that process will generate
renewed instability.”  Stress Test   Deutsche Bank retreated 5.6 percent to 27.65 euros. The
German lender would fail a stress test currently being
discussed, Reuters reported, without saying where it got the
information. The company would need about 9 billion euros ($12
billion) to reach a minimum core tier 1 ratio of 9 percent under
an adverse stress scenario, Reuters reported, citing
unidentified people familiar with the figures.  At least 66 of  Europe ’s biggest banks would fail a revised
European Union stress test and need to raise about 220 billion
euros ($302 billion) of capital, Credit Suisse AG analysts said.  Deutsche Bank will “do everything” not to take money from
the state as part of assistance efforts for the European
financial sector, Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said
today in a speech in Berlin.  Smaller rival  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  declined 4.8 percent to 1.76
euros. Allianz AG, Europe’s biggest insurer, lost 2.6 percent to
78.81 euros.  EON, RWE Drop  EON dropped 3.3 percent to 17.53 euros. RWE slid 3.2
percent to 30.32 euros. Germany’s two largest utilities fell as
Enel said it will be forced to review dividends and spending to
meet debt reduction targets after the government increased taxes
on energy companies.  MTU Aero Engines Holding AG (MTX)  rose 3.1 percent to 49.44
euros. The company plans to increase its stake in a venture
making engines for the Airbus A320, as part of a reshuffle in
ownership after Rolls-Royce Plc said it would sell its stake in
the partnership.  Investors are paying the biggest premium since February
2008 to insure against losses in Germany’s stock market as the
nation’s cost to shield Europe in the debt crisis grows.  Implied volatility for  iShares MSCI Germany Index Fund (EWG) 
contracts expiring in three months is 1.36 times higher than the
level for the iShares MSCI EAFE Index Fund, which tracks nations
throughout Europe, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The ratio
has climbed from the 2011 average of 1.15 even as the DAX Index
rose 15 percent since Oct. 4, the biggest gain since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  