-- 
Gilowska Says Polish Rate Cut ‘Premature,’ Zloty Will Weaken

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-10-12T11:40:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/gilowska-says-polish-rate-cut-premature-as-zloty-will-weaken.html
Poland ’s central bank cutting
interest rates would be “premature” as inflation remains
faster than policy makers’ target and the zloty is set to
weaken, rate setter Zyta Gilowska said.  “Inflation isn’t slowing enough to start talking about an
interest-rate cut,” Gilowska, a member of the central bank’s
Monetary Policy Council, said yesterday in an interview in
Warsaw. “I still think expectations for one are definitely
premature and their likelihood hasn’t increased an iota since
August, when I first pointed this out.”  The Narodowy Bank Polski has kept the seven-day interest
rate at 4.5 percent since June after raising it four times in
the first half of the year. The increases to date, combined with
a weaker economy, should help drop the inflation rate near the
central bank’s target of 2.5 percent in the medium term, the
bank reiterated last week.  Gilowska said a second reason for policy makers to refrain
from easing is a general weakening of emerging-market
currencies, including the zloty. The zloty has declined 7.4
percent against the euro since June 30, the third-biggest fall
among emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The currency traded at 4.31 per euro at 1 p.m. Warsaw time,
up from 4.322 late yesterday. The yield on the government’s 10-
year bond fell 4 basis points from yesterday and was 5.67
percent.  ‘Bucking the Trend’  “We’re bucking the global trend in trying to stabilize the
currency and it’s clear such efforts will be completely
ineffective in the long term,” Gilowska said. “That means the
zloty will depreciate, too, and that fact needs to be considered
as an important argument against cutting  interest rates .”  In addition to the global trend, Polish policy makers
should expect a possible “attack on the zloty” at the end of
the year as markets will test the government’s determination to
defend the currency from weakening to a level that would boost
Polish zloty-denominated debt above the European Union limit of
60 percent of gross domestic product, Gilowska said.  A depreciation in the zloty of 10 percentage points would
increase Poland’s debt ratio, now at 57 percent of GDP according
to EU accounting rules, by 2 percentage points of GDP, according
to Gilowska.  “This is an extremely risky situation,” she said. “We
have to assume that markets could stage an attack on the zloty,
because they know very well that the government will defend the
currency at a level that will prevent a breach of the 60 percent
limit.”  Budget concerns  With public debt getting “dangerously close” to 60
percent of gross domestic product, the “unrealistic”
assumptions the 2012 budget is based on and the lack of a
“credible” fiscal consolidation plan from Prime Minister
Donald Tusk, Poland’s  credit rating  may be cut, Gilowska said.  “Such risks, especially in the light of the European
financial crisis, weigh seriously on Poland’s perception,” she
said. “Without government action to defend Poland from the
crisis effects, its credit rating may be cut.”  Polish government debt is rated A- by Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings, four steps above junk, and at A2 at Moody’s
Investors Service. The country’s rating outlook may come under
pressure unless the government presents “contingency plans” to
reduce the  budget deficit  as economic growth slows, she said.  Poland’s economy won’t suffer as much from the euro-area
slowdown as predicted by some economists, who are forecasting
expansion of less than 2 percent next year, Gilowska said.
Poland’s growth “will most likely” slow to 3 percent next
year, below the government’s 4 percent target, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net  