-- 
Gilt Yields Climb to 2-Month High on Europe Outlook; Pound Rises

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-10-12T15:42:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/gilt-yields-rise-to-2-month-high-on-europe-outlook-pound-gains.html
Gilts fell, pushing 10-year yields
to the highest in two months, as optimism European leaders will
resolve the region’s sovereign debt crisis damped demand for the
relative safety of U.K. government securities.  Thirty-year bonds declined for a fourth day as stocks
advanced around the world and European Union Commissioner Olli Rehn said the region’s debt crisis can be resolved. Gilts
dropped even after a report showed U.K. unemployment rose to a
15-year high. The pound climbed to the strongest in three weeks
versus the dollar.  “Gilts are selling off slightly because the risk
environment is a bit better,” said Russell Silberston, a
portfolio manager in  London  at Investec Asset Management Ltd.,
which oversees about $95 billion. “The dollar is selling off
and equities are making a bit of a bounce which is all
indicative of improving risk appetite.”  The 10-year gilt yield increased seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 2.66 percent at 4:38 p.m. London time,
after rising to 2.67 percent, the highest since Aug. 9. The 3.75
percent security due September 2021 fell 0.63, or 6.3 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 109.475. The 30-year yield climbed
eight basis points to 3.59 percent.  Stocks rose from  Tokyo  to  New York  as Rehn said there’s a
fairly good chance that Europe can avert a “calamity.” Slovak
parties reached an agreement to approve  Europe ’s enhanced
bailout fund, paving the way for a repeated vote in the coming
days. Euro-area leaders said this week they will have a plan by
November to recapitalize banks.  Pound Gains  The pound appreciated 1.2 percent to $1.5770 after reaching
$1.5798, the strongest intraday rate since Sept. 16. Sterling
was little changed at 87.52 pence per euro.  U.K. unemployment rose to 8.1 percent in the three months
through August, from 7.9 percent in the quarter ended July, the
 Office for National Statistics  said in London. The number of
unemployed increased to 2.57 million, the most since 1994 while
jobless claims rose for a seventh month in September.  “Everyone is turning more bearish on the U.K.’s growth
prospects and this sort of data doesn’t help,” said Shant Movsesian, a strategist in London at 4Cast Ltd., a research
company that counts central banks among its customers. “More
quantitative easing will be on the cards.”  Bank of England  policy maker  Adam Posen  said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in New York yesterday that
the latest round of monetary stimulus is the “right place” to
start and officials are ready to do more if necessary.  ‘Relatively Cautious’  Investec predicts the pound will fall and is “relatively
cautious” on gilts due to the likely impact on further monetary
easing on U.K. inflation, which may approach 5 percent by
November, Silberston said. U.K. inflation of 4.5 percent in
August, compares with a benchmark interest rate of 0.5 percent.  The central bank last week increased its bond purchase
program to 275 billion pounds from 200 billion pounds, the
biggest expansion since the first round of so-called
quantitative easing in March 2009, saying slowing global growth
and the euro-area debt crisis threaten the U.K. recovery.  The pound has declined 1.3 percent in the past six months
and 2.6 percent in the last year, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which measure a basket of 10
developed-market currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  