-- 
GM Plans Electric-Drive Version of Chevrolet Spark Subcompact Car for 2013

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-10-12T17:25:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/gm-plans-electric-version-of-chevy-spark-subcompact-car-for-2013.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , maker of the
Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid sedan, plans to sell an electric
version of the Chevrolet Spark subcompact car in the U.S.  The electric Spark will go on sale in 2013 in select
markets, after the 2012 introduction of the gasoline version,
the automaker said today during a media event at its Detroit
headquarters marking the Chevrolet brand’s 100th anniversary.
 A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)  will supply the electric vehicle’s batteries.  “EVs can be a sound solution for customers living in
megacities and urban centers,” said Jim Federico, a GM global
vehicle line executive. “The technology is ideal for smaller
vehicles like the Spark. It can provide a viable solution in
markets where the infrastructure is more mature.”  The electric car is part of Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson’s push to make GM a technology leader. At the Detroit
auto show in January, he said he wanted the company to build a
battery-powered vehicle and to put the Volt’s powertrain system
in more models. GM in August said it will build a Cadillac
version of the Volt called the ELR.  “GM is making a bet on EVs, but they’re not going off the
deep end with it,” said  Jeremy Anwyl , CEO of Edmunds.com, an
auto-research website based in Santa Monica,  California . “There
are regulatory benefits for building EVs, but they are getting a
tepid response in the market.”  GM rose 4.9 percent to $23.60 at 1:23 p.m. in New York.
A123, based in Waltham,  Massachusetts , surged 19 percent to
$3.88, and posted its biggest intraday gain in two months.  Competitive Market  The Sonic will have a lot of competition. J.D. Power &
Associates, a marketing research firm based in Westlake Village,
California, predicts that 15 electric models will come to market
by the end of 2014. The firm forecasts that 58,000 of the
vehicles will be sold in the U.S. in 2013.  Nissan plans to have the capacity to build 150,000 electric
vehicles annually in its plant in Smyrna,  Tennessee , with most
of those being sold to U.S. consumers.  GM’s electric Spark will go on sale globally, Federico
said. “We’ll have a launch that will start off almost like the
Volt where it will start off in key countries, cities and
states,” he said.  The gasoline-powered Spark will begin U.S. sales late in
2012’s first quarter. The car, which is called the Chevrolet
Beat in some markets, is already being sold in  Europe , South
Korea,  India ,  Mexico ,  South America  and  Australia .  The Spark is one of the cars that will use GM’s new smaller
Ecotec engines, announced separately today. The automaker said
it will start making the three- and four-cylinder engines by
“mid-decade,” without giving more specific timing.  Volt Strategy  GM’s bigger play is the Volt, which the company says can go
more than 40 miles on electric drive before the gasoline engine
kicks in to charge the battery and sometimes power the car.  Chevrolet  started selling the Volt in December and has been
increasing production slowly. One of Akerson’s first moves as
CEO was to boost Volt production for 2012 to 60,000 from 45,000.  The company sold 3,895 Volts in the U.S. this year through
September and may not reach its 10,000 annual goal, Anwyl said.  “It will be tough to hit the target,” Anwyl said in a
telephone interview. “It looks like GM could miss it by about
10 percent.”  GM is selling every Volt it can build, Tony Posawatz, the
car’s vehicle line director, said in an interview yesterday.  The company didn’t expect quick growth in Volt demand,
Federico said.  “I don’t think any of us expected electric to be a step-
function of volume,” Federico said. “Our expectations are that
it’s going to be a slow growth. Our technologies, our costs for
batteries, go hand in hand with that slow growth.”  Volt sales in  China  will begin this quarter, GM said last
month. The company also announced a new venture with its Chinese
partner, SAIC Motor Co., in September to jointly design electric
cars and develop parts for them at an existing venture in the
Asian nation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Welch in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in  New York  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  