-- 
Goldman May Drop Bank Status Over Volcker Rule, Hilder Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-10-12T20:44:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/goldman-may-drop-bank-status-to-sidestep-volcker-rule-costs-hilder-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan
Stanley may consider dropping their status as bank holding
companies to avoid expenses tied to the Volcker rule, said  David Hilder , an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group LLP.  The rule in its current form would impose costs on lenders
and drive capital to non-bank market makers, causing the two New
York-based firms to consider whether to stop being banks, Hilder
said in a note yesterday, when four regulatory agencies issued a
298-page draft of the rule for public comment.  Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley were the biggest U.S.
securities firms before they converted to bank holding companies
after the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. Both became subject to regulation by the  Federal Reserve 
and won access to central bank programs such as the discount
window, which are designed to protect deposit-taking banks.  “The regulators have proposed a massive new compliance
burden on banks to prove that their market-making activities are
just that, and not proprietary trading in disguise,” wrote
Hilder, who’s based in New York. “If these regulations are
adopted in anything close to their proposed form, there will be
large additional costs imposed on banks as market-makers that
will not apply to market-makers not owned by banks.”  David Konrad, a bank analyst at KBW Inc., said Goldman
Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are unlikely to change their status as
bank holding companies to dodge the Volcker restrictions.  ‘Protecting Deposits’  “If they tried to do that, Congress would amend the rule
to say systemically important banks rather than bank holding
companies,” Konrad said in a phone interview. “This is part
protecting deposits, but also part too-big-to-fail. I don’t
think there’s any interest from the investment banks in doing
that, and I don’t think it would serve that purpose.”  Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer David Viniar said
Jan. 21, 2010, the same day President  Barack Obama  announced his
support for the Volcker rule, that it was “unrealistic” to
imagine the firm won’t be a federally supervised bank.  Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley made “modest profits”
from pure proprietary trading, which is why they willingly shut
down those desks,  David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities,
wrote in a note today. The rule’s draft indicates regulators
won’t interfere with customer flow trading, he wrote.  Goldman Sachs may be hurt by provisions that limit
investments in hedge funds and private equity, Trone wrote. Had
those restrictions been in place in recent years, they would
have cost the firm about $700 million, or 9 percent, of annual
earnings, he wrote.  ‘Crown Jewel’ Businesses  The rule, named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , was
included in last year’s regulatory overhaul to rein in risky
trading that helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The central
bank, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency worked with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on the draft issued yesterday.  Morgan Stanley climbed 45 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $15.84
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Goldman Sachs
advanced 2.5 percent to $99.11.  Increased regulation and capital rules may mean the largest
banks have to split off some “crown jewel” businesses, said
 Roy Smith , a finance professor at New York University’s Stern
School of Business and a former Goldman Sachs partner.  “You have to ask which parts of the business are they
simply not going to be able to continue to do or maintain the
talented people who do it because those guys would have better
options if they left the firm and went to a hedge fund,” Smith
said. “You don’t want to be left with the third team running
your expensive market-making trading desk.”  It’s too soon to say whether banks affected by the rule
would have to break up to remain competitive and the costs of
the proposal are likely to shift some business to smaller
players,  Glenn Schorr , a Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst, wrote in
a note today. Companies and investors are likely to push back
during the comment period to “dial back” some parts of the
rule, he wrote.  Stephen Cohen , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, and Morgan
Stanley’s Mark Lake declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  