-- 
Gold Eclipses Cocaine as Rebels Tap Colombian Mining Wealth

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-10-12T19:03:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/gold-eclipses-cocaine-as-rebels-tap-mining-wealth-in-colombia.html
Colombia , the world’s largest
cocaine producer, said illegal gold mining is becoming the
“next major threat” to security as government efforts to crack
down on drug crops prompt rebels to seek new revenue sources.  Unlike cocaine, gold can easily be sold into the economy
and be used to finance terrorist groups, Mines and Energy
Minister Mauricio Cardenas said in an interview.  “It’s something that has been growing fast, and in some
ways it’s Colombia’s next major threat from the point of view of
illegal groups,” Cardenas, 49, said Oct. 10 at his office in
Bogota. “We have to combat this very effectively, very fast. We
cannot let this problem grow.”  Colombian gold deposits, which enriched Spanish
conquistadors more than four centuries ago, have attracted
investment from billionaire  Eike Batista  and  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. (ANG)  Guerrilla and paramilitary groups, whose suppression has
been the cornerstone of government efforts to boost security and
lure investments, also have been drawn to mining for the
precious metal as gold trades near record levels.  Gold’s rally has made illegal mining “a lot more
profitable,” threatening to bring “reinvigorated strength” to
terrorist groups, according to Cardenas.  Gold futures for December delivery rose 1.3 percent to
settle at $1,682.60 an ounce at 1:41 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York . Earlier, the metal reached $1,693.90, the highest for a
most-active contract since Sept 23. Gold has surged 25 percent
in the past year.  ‘Terrible Effect’  “A stronger guerrilla would recruit better, make it easier
to extort people and companies, and attack infrastructure and
the military,” Alfredo Rangel, a former member of Colombia’s
 Security Council , said yesterday by phone. “All of which would
have a terrible effect on security and investment expectations
and be very negative for economic growth.”  Kidnappings, including by guerrilla groups, slumped to 282
people last year from 2,882 in 2002, while murder and attacks by
illegal groups against police, infrastructure and citizens also
fell, according to government figures.  Improved security has helped President  Juan Manuel Santos 
to draw international investment in mines,  oil fields  and coal
projects. Foreign direct investment may rise to a record $12
billion this year, according to the  finance ministry , more than
quadruple levels a decade ago.  Batista’s AUX Canada Acquisition Inc. purchased control of
Ventana Gold Corp. this year to gain gold deposits in Colombia,
while  AngloGold Ashanti , the gold producer whose largest
shareholder is billionaire  John Paulson , is developing the La
Colosa gold mine.  Drug-Fueled Violence  Guerrilla groups and organized crime gangs are also tapping
the deposits as a way to expand beyond drug trafficking, fund
weapons purchases and manpower, Vice President Angelino Garzon
said in an interview last month. He estimates a “high” amount
of output from illegal gold mining.  “It’s a diversification of revenue,” Garzon said.  The government has increased arrests and seizures of
equipment at illegal mines this year, Cardenas said. Colombia is
studying additional steps to combat the operations, such as
tracking raw materials used to extract gold.  Guerrilla and paramilitary groups thrived on drug revenue
in the 1990s, fueling violence that led investors to shun the
Andean nation. Since then, cocaine output in Colombia, still the
world’s largest producer of the drug processed from coca leaves,
has plunged amid government eradication and anti-trafficking
efforts, according to United Nations figures.  Colombian production shrank to 350 metric tons in 2010 from
410 tons in 2009, the UN said. Declining output means  Peru  may
be on track to become the world’s top supplier of cocaine, the
 International Narcotics Control Board  said in March.  Weakened FARC  Eradicating coca production over the past decade has
weakened the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC,
 Latin America ’s oldest guerrilla group, as well as the smaller
ELN and paramilitary groups that purchase weapons and secure
manpower with drug money, kidnappings and extortion.  As cocaine production fell, gold output climbed to a record
53.6 metric tons last year, according to Colombian government
figures. Output has more than tripled from 15.5 tons in 2007.
The government doesn’t have an estimate on how much gold is
mined illegally because, like coca cultivation, it often takes
place in isolated areas with few roadways and steep terrain,
Cardenas said.  Guerrillas already long present in some mining areas are
now bringing in heavy equipment and consolidating to increase
output in provinces in central and southwestern Colombia, Rangel
said.  Unlike drugs, “illegal gold mining is easy to legalize
once you have a gram of gold in your hands, because then you can
sell it anywhere,” Cardenas said. “It’s something you have to
control” at the mine site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  