-- 
Goldman’s O’Neill Says U.K., U.S. Economies Need More ‘Targeted’ Policies

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-12T15:40:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/goldman-s-o-neill-says-u-k-u-s-economies-need-more-targeted-policies.html
Goldman Sachs Asset Management
Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said conventional quantitative easing may
not be enough for the U.S. and U.K. economies and more
“targeted” policies are needed to boost confidence and growth.  “It’s not obvious to me that conventional QE in the U.K.
or the U.S. has got that much bang for its buck,” O’Neill said
in an interview with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse” program in London today. “More imaginative QE or
forms of specific targeted easing, probably involving more
infrastructure or doing something to get bank funding spreads
down, would be more likely to get a stronger result.”  His comments were echoed by former  Bank of England  policy
maker Sushil Wadhwani, who said today that global central banks
need to do “more creative” forms of monetary policy to prevent
the global economy slipping into a recession.  The Bank of England restarted asset purchases last week,
its first expansion of policy since 2009, citing risks to the
recovery from the euro-area debt crisis, while data today showed
the  unemployment rate  rose to the highest since 1996 in the
quarter through August. In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve 
announced last month an operation to replace $400 billion of
short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries,
aiming to reduce borrowing costs and spur the recovery.  Less Impact  The Bank of England’s new stimulus “will have less effect
this time than it did last time,” former Bank of England policy
maker Charles Goodhart said on Bloomberg Television’s “Last
Word” with  Andrea Catherwood  today. “The real problem isn’t
the level of official  interest rates , but it’s the difficulties
the banks have in getting funding and the spreads the banks
charge.”  He said there is a “very strong case” for trying to
provide more assistance to small businesses and first-time home
buyers. Referring to Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s credit-easing proposal, he said “more innovative
ways” to help boost credit are necessary.  Wadhwani, founder of Wadhwani Asset Management LLP, said
global policy makers need to do three things “if they are to
prevent a relapse,”  “First, they need to get firms better access to credit,”
he said in an e-mailed note co-written with  Michael Dicks .
“Second, they need to help boost demand. And, third, they need
to deal with the euro crisis.”  Direct Approach  Wadhwani recommended U.K. authorities take a more direct
approach to boosting demand by issuing every adult a voucher
that can be spent in the next three months. That is “surely a
more effective form of quantitative easing” than the central
bank buying gilts, he said.  He also said the U.K. and the U.S. can’t “play the
innocent bystander and plead with  Europe  to sort out its mess.”  “Better surely to recognize both the global scale of the
problem and the political constraints that are currently
limiting European policy makers’ room for manoeuvre, and act in
accordance,” he said.  The U.K. unemployment data also showed that jobless claims
rose 17,500 in September, a seventh straight increase. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  said the figures were “very
disappointing,” adding that the government won’t abandon its
budget-reduction plan.  “I think it would be a dangerous thing to rule out” the
U.K. economy deteriorating further “given what the evidence is
showing,” O’Neill said. “It might be because of the fiscal
tightening that is coming home to roost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Atkinson at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net  