-- 
Google Is Said Not to Be Planning to Acquire Akamai Technologies Business

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-10-13T20:21:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/google-is-said-not-to-plan-akamai-takeover-after-report-raised-speculation.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  isn’t planning to
acquire  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) , two people familiar with the
matter said, countering a report in Business Insider that fueled
speculation a takeover may be imminent.  The story, which sparked an after-hours surge of as much as
17 percent in Akamai stock yesterday, is baseless, said the
people, who asked not to be identified. Several people in the
advertising technology industry “think Google is about to buy
Akamai,” Business Insider reported earlier yesterday.  “It’s mostly just a rumor,” according to the report.  Akamai, which speeds delivery of online content for such
customers as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , was the subject of
more buyout rumors than any other American company from 2005
through 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It was named as a
target 21 times by electronic news services, brokerages or
newspapers, according to the data.  Weakness in Akamai shares -- it has slumped 50 percent this
year -- means the company may be more alluring to acquirers. The
company could attract interest from International Business
Machines Corp., which is hunting for takeovers, or  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , co-owner of the largest U.S. wireless
operator, analysts at Blaylock Robert Van LLC and SunTrust
Robinson Humphrey Inc. said earlier this month.  Representatives of Mountain View, California-based Google
and Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Akamai declined to comment.  Akamai shares rose as high as $27.35 after the report
yesterday, before paring the gains. The stock rose 4.8 percent
to close at $24.49 in U.S. trading today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  