-- 
Greece Hit by Strikes, Work Stoppages Against Austerity Measures

-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 
2011-10-12T10:17:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/greece-hit-by-strikes-work-stoppages-against-austerity-measures.html
Greek state workers blocked access
to the  Finance Ministry ’s main building in central  Athens  as
protests mount against government plans to cut jobs and wages to
meet conditions for international loans.  Members of the  Federation of Finance Ministry Unions  hung a
banner reading “Occupation” from the top of the eight-story
building and placed black flags around the roof. The federation
plans a nine-day strike beginning Oct. 17, according to an e-
mailed statement from the Athens-based group today.  Strikes and work stoppages will affect government services,
transport, hospitals, schools and tourist sites in the run-up to
next week’s Parliament vote on Prime Minister  George
Papandreou ’s plans to cut wages and pensions and dismiss 30,000
workers. Greece’s private and public sector unions have called a
24-hour general strike on Oct. 19.  European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
indicated yesterday  Greece  will qualify for an 8 billion-euro
($11 billion) loan next month, part of a 110 billion-euro
bailout to avert the country from defaulting. The officials said
Greece would miss its 2011 deficit target.  More spending cuts will be needed in 2013 and 2014, the
officials said, underlining that revenue assumptions are
“ambitious”.  Papandreou risks a replay of social and political unrest
that almost brought down his government in June when he was
forced to push through a 78 billion-euro package of budget cuts
and state asset sales before receiving a fifth loan payment
under the May 2010 bailout.  Museums, Hospitals Shut  Culture Ministry  employees began a 48-hour strike today,
shutting down museums and archaeological sites. Greek prisons
will operate on reduced staff due to a 24-hour strike today and
work stoppages on Oct. 13 and 14. Dockworkers at Greek ports
stopped work for four hours today and ferry services to the
Greek islands will be disrupted by a 48-hour strike on Oct. 17
by the  Pan-Hellenic Seamen’s Federation .  The Athens metro, used by 620,000 passengers daily, along
with city buses, trams and trolleys won’t operate for two days
starting tomorrow due to a strike. Transit employees have held
strikes and work stoppages since Sept. 2.  School teachers will hold a three-hour walkout tomorrow to
protest cuts to school budgets and workers at state hospitals
will walk off the job for four hours. Health Minister Andreas Loverdos cut 900 million euros from the state-run health service
last year, according to a statement from the ministry yesterday.  City workers have blocked access to city garages and
garbage dumps around Greece, causing rubbish to pile up on
streets.  Separately,  Hellenic Petroleum SA (ELPE)  workers called off a
strike begun yesterday to oppose changes to collective labor
agreements,  Naftemporiki  reported. Collective work agreements at
the company won’t be changed, the Athens-based daily said,
without citing anyone.  -- With assistance from Maria Petrakis and Natalie Weeks in
Athens  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  