-- 
Default Swaps on Greece’s Debt May Pay Out If Losses Exceed 21% Threshold

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-10-12T10:33:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/greece-s-credit-default-swaps-may-pay-out-if-the-agreed-losses-exceed-21-.html
Credit-default swaps insuring Greek
government debt may pay out should proposals to increase losses
on the bonds exceed the 21 percent already agreed, according to
analysts.  Deeper cuts would likely have to be imposed on bondholders,
triggering a  credit event  on the swaps contracts, analysts at
 Barclays Capital , Evolution Securities Ltd. and Credit Agricole
SA said.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  triggered
speculation that so-called haircuts on Greek bonds could exceed
60 percent when interviewed on Austrian television yesterday.
Finance ministers are considering reshaping a July deal that
foresaw investors contributing 50 billion euros ($69 billion) to
a 159 billion-euro rescue.  “There’s increasing evidence everything is going to a
bigger restructuring of Greece and that’s going to be difficult
to engineer without triggering CDS,” said Thomas Harjes, a
senior European economist at Barclays Capital in  Frankfurt .
“It’s very likely banks won’t voluntarily agree to that.”  Credit-default swaps on Greece cover a net notional $3.7
billion, according to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.,
which runs a central registry that captures most trades. That’s
less than 1 percent of the government’s $471 billion of bonds
and loans outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The increase in private sector involvement, or PSI,
involving debt exchanges and rollovers may put finance ministers
on a collision course with the  European Central Bank  which has
insisted since the start of the crisis that there should be no
credit event that triggers credit-default swaps.  Restructuring Event  A restructuring credit event can be caused by a reduction
in principal or interest, postponement or deferral of payments
or a change in the ranking or currency of obligations, according
to the  International Swaps & Derivatives Association . Any of
these changes must result from a deterioration in
creditworthiness, apply to multiple investors and be binding on
all holders. ISDA’s determinations committee rules whether
credit swaps can be triggered.  Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Juncker, who leads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, said through a spokesman yesterday that haircuts on
 Greece  could exceed 21 percent. The statement clarified
interpretations of the television interview that losses may
exceed 60 percent.  Swaps Costs  Credit-default swaps insuring $10 million of Greek debt for
five years cost $6.1 million in advance and $100,000 annually,
according to CMA. That implies a greater than 90 percent chance
the government will default in that time, assuming investors
recover 32 percent of their holdings.  The 10-year Greek bond was little changed at 37.24 percent
of face value at 10:41 a.m. in London today. The yield on the
securities was at 24.06 percent.  A 21 percent haircut “looked overly generous for banks, so
it’s no wonder many volunteered themselves to participate in the
PSI,” said Harpreet Parhar, a strategist at  Credit Agricole  in
London. “The touted 60 percent changes the dynamic considerably
and we are not sure how many banks would volunteer themselves
this time around, so politicians are likely to twist some arms
further to get banks on board.”  European leaders have gone back and forth over the sanctity
of bond contracts as the crisis escalated. German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  has insisted on the participation of banks,
insurers and other private investors as a condition for
bailouts, while politicians have opposed any move that would
trigger insurance payouts on concern it would spread contagion.  “If they do impose a much higher haircut then yes, it
might well trigger CDS,” said  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed
income at Evolution Securities in  London . “But the much more
interesting aspect is: is that seen by investors as a template
for future defaults? And if it is, what’s the impact for
sovereign bonds?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  