-- 
Greenblatt ‘Swerve,’ Marx Bio Join National Book Award Nominees

-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 
2011-10-12T18:42:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/greenblatt-s-swerve-life-of-marx-garner-national-book-award-nominations.html
Biographies of two married couples,
Karl and Jenny Marx and Marie and Pierre Curie, were among the
nominees for the  National Book Awards , which were announced
today.  Four out of five nonfiction finalists are biographies,
including Mary Gabriel’s “Love and Capital: Karl and Jenny Marx
and the Birth of a Revolution” (Little, Brown) and Lauren
Redniss’s “Radioactive: Marie & Pierre Curie: A Tale of Love
and Fallout” (It Books). “Radioactive” is the first graphic
biography, told in words and pictures, to be nominated in an
adult category.  The other biographies are Deborah Baker’s “The Convert: A
Tale of Exile and Extremism” (Graywolf), about an American-
Jewish woman who converted to Islam and moved to  Pakistan , and
Manning Marable’s “Malcolm X: A Life of Reinvention” (Viking).
Marable died days before his book’s publication in April.  The other nonfiction nominee is Stephen Greenblatt’s “The
Swerve: How the World Became Modern” (Norton), the history of
an ancient Roman book, Lucretius’s “On the Nature of Things,”
and how its rediscovery fueled the Renaissance.  Bellevue Literary Press, a small organization based at
Bellevue Hospital in New York, published last year’s Pulitzer-
winning novel, “Tinkers.” Now it’s been recognized by the
National Book Awards with a nomination for Andrew Krivak’s first
novel, “The Sojourn.”  First Book  Lookout Books, based at the University of  North Carolina ,
Wilmington, gained a nomination with the very first book it
published, Edith Pearlman’s “Binocular Vision.”  The other
fiction nominees are Tea Obreht’s “The Tiger’s Wife” ( Random
House ), Julie Otsuka’s “The Buddha in the Attic” (Knopf) and
Jesmyn Ward’s “Salvage the Bones” (Bloomsbury).  The nominees in poetry are Nikky Finney’s “Head Off &
Split” (Triquarterly), Yusef Komunyakaa’s “The Chameleon
Couch” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux), Carl Phillips’s “Double
Shadow,” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux), Adrienne Rich’s “Tonight
No Poetry Will Serve” (Norton) and Bruce Smith’s “Devotions”
(University of Chicago).  The Young People’s Literature nominees are Franny
Billingsley’s “Chime” (Dial), Debby Dahl Edwardson’s “My Name
Is Not Easy” (Marshall Cavendish), Thanhha Lai’s “Inside Out
and Back Again” (HarperCollins), Albert Marrin’s “Flesh and
Blood So Cheap: The Triangle Fire and Its Legacy” (Knopf),
Lauren Myracle’s “Shine” (Amulet) and Gary D. Schmidt’s “Okay
for Now” (Clarion).  Winners receive a bronze statue and $10,000, while nominees
receive a bronze medal and $1,000.  Ashbery Award  The winners will be announced on Nov. 16 in  New York , at a
benefit for the National Book Foundation hosted by actor and
writer  John Lithgow  at Cipriani  Wall Street . Poet John Ashbery
will receive a medal for Distinguished Contribution to American
Letters.  The Literarian Award for Outstanding Service to the
American Literary Community will be given to Mitchell Kaplan,
owner of the small Books & Books chain based in South Florida
and co-founder of the Miami Book Fair International.  To contact the writer of this review:
Laurie Muchnick in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 