-- 
Greek Bondholders May Face 60% Losses in Buyback, Wyplosz Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-10-12T18:07:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/greek-bondholders-may-face-60-losses-wyplosz-says-tom-keene.html
Private investors in Greek bonds
will need to take losses ranging from 40 percent to 60 percent,
according to  Charles Wyplosz , director of the Geneva-based
International Center for Money and Banking Studies.  “Anything that’s half haircut, plus or minus 10 percent,
would be fine,” Wyplosz said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene. “This is
hardly surprising. Either the banks got prepared or they got it
completely wrong and they will pay a high price for that.”  Greece is in the process of receiving its second bailout
from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund . Banks
pledged in July to participate in a bond exchange and debt
buyback program where “all instruments will be priced to produce
a 21 percent net present value loss.”  Credit-default swaps prices from data provider CMA imply a
91 percent chance  Greece  will default within five years,
according to a standard pricing model used by credit swaps
traders.  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  proposed
measures today to coordinate the recapitalization of banks
gripped with large amounts of debt from Greece and other
troubled nations, following the work of the European Banking
Authority.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  triggered
speculation that so-called haircuts on Greek bonds could exceed
60 percent when interviewed on Austrian television yesterday.
Finance ministers are considering reshaping a July deal that
foresaw investors contributing 50 billion euros ($69 billion) to
a 159 billion-euro rescue.  Juncker, who leads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, said through a spokesman yesterday that haircuts on
Greece could exceed 21 percent. The statement clarified
interpretations of the television interview that losses may
exceed 60 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  