-- 
Liberia Counts Vote as Johnson-Sirleaf May Face Second Round

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   S e s a y
-- 
2011-10-12T05:20:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/liberians-count-votes-as-johnson-sirleaf-may-face-second-round.html
Votes are being counted in Liberia
as Nobel Peace Prize winner Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf may face a
second round after presidential and legislative elections.  Polling stations closed late yesterday in the West African
nation and tallying of ballots began immediately, Bobby Livingstone, director of press with the Monrovia-based National
Elections Commission, said by phone.  The release of provisional results will start tomorrow,
James Fromoyan, chairman of the elections body, said at a press
conference. He said in an Oct. 9 radio statement that the final
outcome would be given by Oct. 26  Johnson-Sirleaf, 72, faced 15 candidates including Winston
Tubman, 70, a lawyer whose running mate is former A.C. Milan
soccer player  George Weah  and 60-year-old lawyer Charles
Brumskine. If no candidate wins more than 50 percent of the vote
a second round of balloting will be held.  While Johnson-Sirleaf “could still win enough votes
together with the other minor opposition candidates to push the
polls into a second round, she is still likely to enter the
second round lagging rather than leading the Tubman-Weah
ticket,” said New York-based DaMina Advisors analysts including
Sebastian Spio-Garbrah in an e-mailed note yesterday.  Liberians “turned out in large numbers to cast their votes
in a peaceful manner,” said Nigeria’s former head of state
Yakubu Gowon, who is overseeing the election-observation mission
of the Atlanta-based  Carter Center . The poll is a chance for
Liberians to “be an example to other countries in the sub-
region,” he told reporters at a voting station at the
University of Liberia.  Civil War  The former banker was elected  Africa ’s first female
president and has been working to rebuild a country devastated
by a 14-year civil war that ended in 2003 and left an estimated
250,000 people dead. On Oct. 7, she was named a joint winner of
the  Nobel prize  for her work in promoting  women’s rights .  Johnson-Sirleaf “has been quite successful in negotiating
large mining contracts,” Joseph Lake, an analyst with London-
based Economist Intelligence Unit, said in an interview on Oct.
6. “Unfortunately, the impact of the foreign investment her
government has been able to attract has yet to be felt. The
perception of corruption is widespread and there has been a
relative lack of progress in terms of  job creation .”  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker, started
iron-ore shipments on Sept. 27. OAO Severstal,  Russia ’s largest
steelmaker, is developing the Putu iron ore mine in a $2.5
billion investment and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest U.S.
oil company, will start exploration drilling off the Liberian
coast in the fourth quarter of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Sesay in Monrovia via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 