-- 
Iceland Faces ‘Difficult’ Membership Negotiations, EU Says

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-10-12T10:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/iceland-faces-difficult-membership-negotiations-eu-says.html
Iceland faces “difficult
negotiations” in areas such as the free movement of capital,
fishing and agriculture in its talks to join the European Union,
the bloc said.  Iceland started EU entry talks in July 2010 and will
probably vote on accession in early 2013. Support among
Icelanders for joining the bloc is waning as the island’s
economy recovers from its 2008 banking collapse. A June poll by
Capacent Gallup showed 51 percent of Icelanders want to drop the
application, compared with 38.5 percent who want to complete the
process.  “Iceland’s accession process has made headway over the
past year,” the EU said in its 2011 Progress Report published
today in Brussels. “Difficult negotiations can be expected in a
number of key areas such as free movement of capital, fisheries,
agriculture and rural development, environment including
whaling, taxation and customs unions, regional policy and  food
safety . The Icesave dispute remains unsolved.”  Iceland, whose banks defaulted on $85 billion in 2008,
completed a 33-month International Monetary Fund program in
August. Its economy is likely to grow faster than the average
for the euro area this year and next, the IMF estimates, while
credit default swaps on Iceland trade lower than the average for
the EU.  “Vulnerabilities in the private sector continue to impede
a stronger recovery of domestic demand, and banks are still
suffering from weak asset quality,” according to the EU report.
“The refinancing of the banking sector has been largely
completed even though further” steps need to be taken in order
for the banks to resume lending.  Icesave  The Icesave dispute, named after the high-yielding Internet
accounts of failed Landsbanki Islands hf offered abroad, soured
Iceland’s relations with the EU after the bank’s collapse left
about 350,000 depositors in the U.K. and the Netherlands in the
lurch. The island is obliged under European rules to guarantee a
minimum 20,000 euros for each account holder with the lender.
Iceland is facing legal proceedings as the European Free Trade
Association’s Surveillance Authority considers whether to take
the matter before the EFTA Court.  U.K. and Dutch depositors were compensated by their own
governments after the failure. A government agreement on
Iceland’s repayment terms of the $5.3 billion used to repay
depositors was rejected by Icelandic voters in an April
referendum, prompting the infringement proceedings.  The EU report raised concerns over high unemployment and
the indebtedness of households and businesses. Iceland has
started easing currency restrictions, which the central bank
estimates have locked in about $4.3 billion in krona assets.  “Inflation is on the rise,” according to the report.
“Currency restrictions are still in place, although first steps
have been taken to prepare for a phased lifting of such
controls.”  The island opened four chapters in its accession talks to
join the EU on June 27 and closed two of them provisionally. The
north Atlantic island could vote on accession talks as early as
2013, according to Foreign Minister Ossur Skarphedinsson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  