-- 
Trader Kimelman Gets 30 Months on Eve of Rajaratnam’s Galleon Sentencing

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-10-12T17:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/michael-kimelman-gets-30-month-prison-term-on-eve-of-rajaratnam-sentencing.html
Michael Kimelman, the Incremental
Capital LLC co-founder, was sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison
for  insider trading , a day before Galleon Group LLC’s Raj Rajaratnam is set to learn his fate in the same  Manhattan 
courthouse.  Kimelman was found guilty in June with Zvi Goffer, a former
Galleon employee, and his brother, Emanuel Goffer, in a scheme
to bribe two lawyers at Boston-based Ropes & Gray LLP for secret
information about transactions involving 3Com Corp., Axcan
Pharma Inc., Kronos Inc. and Hilton Hotels Corp.  “I was made aware when I went to trial that I could be
convicted,” Kimelman told U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan .
“Now that has happened, I am ready to pay the price and face
the consequences of my decision.”  Sullivan today also ordered Kimelman to serve three years
of supervised release and ordered him to forfeit $289,000, the
amount prosecutors said he made from the scheme. In September,
Sullivan gave Zvi Goffer 10 years in prison, and last week he
sentenced Emanuel Goffer to three years.  Kimelman has continued to claim he is innocent and intends
to appeal the conviction. Last week Sullivan denied his requests
for acquittal or for a new trial.  Request for Leniency  Kimelman’s lawyer,  Michael Sommer , asked Sullivan for
leniency, arguing that his client never used a prepaid cell
phone to evade detection, as others in the ring did. Kimelman
never took or gave any bribes, wasn’t a leader of the scheme and
didn’t pass any tips to others, Sommer said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Tarlowe urged Sullivan to
sentence Kimelman within the advisory federal guideline range of
33 months to 41 months. He said Kimelman created a phony paper
trail to disguise the insider trades.  Sullivan said he was influenced in his decision to sentence
Kimelman below the guideline range by the more than 100 letters
he received from Kimelman’s friends and family.  Rajaratnam, the convicted mastermind of the central scheme
uncovered in a government crackdown on insider trading at  hedge
funds , is scheduled to be sentenced tomorrow by U.S. District
Judge Richard Holwell. He was convicted by a jury in May of 14
counts of  securities fraud  and conspiracy.  Rajaratnam, 54, was accused of using illegal tips to trade
in stocks of companies including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel
Corp ., Google Inc., ATI Technologies Inc. and Clearwire Corp.
Prosecutors said he made $72 million from his crimes.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 