-- 
Indian Industrial Output Grows Less Than Estimated as Interest Rates Climb

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-10-12T09:23:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/india-industrial-output-grows-less-than-estimated-as-rates-climb.html
India ’s industrial production rose
less than expected following record interest-rate increases by
the central bank and as the global recovery weakens.  Output at factories, utilities and mines increased 4.1
percent in August from a year earlier after a revised 3.8
percent gain in July, the Central Statistical Office said in a
statement in New Delhi today. The median of 20 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 4.7 percent gain.  Emerging markets from  Brazil  to  Indonesia  have cut
borrowing costs to shield expansion as  Europe ’s debt woes and a
faltering U.S. recovery hurt the world economy. In India, the
fastest inflation in more than a year is sustaining pressure for
higher rates even as consumer demand wanes.  “The RBI won’t lower its guard just yet given the elevated
level of inflation,” said  Anubhuti Sahay , a Mumbai-based
economist at Standard Chartered Plc. She expects the central
bank to increase its repurchase rate by a quarter of a
percentage point to 8.5 percent in the Oct. 25 policy decision.  The Indian rupee has weakened 8.9 percent against the
dollar this year, the worst performer in  Asia , threatening
higher import costs.  The currency gained 0.6 percent to 49.03 at 2:48 p.m. in
Mumbai today, while the Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index
rose 2 percent. The yield on the 7.8 percent note due April 2021
rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 8.75
percent.  Inflation Estimate  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation rate was
probably 9.75 percent in September, holding close to a 13-month
high, the median of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
showed. The commerce ministry will release the data on Oct. 14.  Inflation is a political issue in India as it erodes
spending power in a nation where the  World Bank  estimates more
than three-quarters of the population live on less than $2 a
day.  In his most recent policy decision on Sept. 16, Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao raised the central bank’s repurchase rate by a
quarter point to 8.25 percent. He said on Sept. 26 that
inflation will slow by March 2012, “but more slowly than
initially expected.”  The governor in July predicted inflation to ease to 7
percent by March 31. He forecast India’s economy to expand about
8 percent in the year through March from 8.5 percent in the
previous year.  Rate Rises  Subbarao has boosted the  Reserve Bank ’s benchmark rate by
350 basis points since mid-March 2010, the fastest round of
increases since the central bank was established in 1935,
Bloomberg data show.  “We raise rates not because it is an end in itself but
because inflation persists to be a problem,” Reserve Bank
Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said in a speech to students in the
northern Indian town of Jaipur today. “To the extent we see the
problem persisting, then that is the basis to raise rates. But
if we see that the problem is starting to ease off, then that
will provide the basis of a change.”  Manufacturing grew 4.5 percent in August from a year
earlier compared with a 3.1 percent gain in July, today’s report
showed. Mining fell 3.4 percent, while electricity output rose
9.5 percent.  Other indicators also show that the monetary tightening is
curbing consumer demand.  Car Sales  Sales by companies including  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the
nation’s biggest carmaker, fell 1.8 percent in September, the
third straight monthly decline, the  Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers  said Oct. 10.  India’s manufacturing grew in September at the slowest pace
in 2 1/2 years, according to the Purchasing Managers’ Index
released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  India’s merchandise export growth slowed for a second
straight month in September, Commerce Secretary  Rahul Khullar 
said in New Delhi today. Shipments rose 36.3 percent to $24.8
billion from a year earlier, Khullar said. Exports gained 44.3
percent in August.  “For the moment, the RBI will have to prioritize managing
inflation over growth,”  Ramya Suryanarayanan , an economist at
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore , said before the report.
“Inflation is too high and is not going to ease to the central
bank’s comfort zone anytime soon.”  ----With assistance from Manish Modi and Tushar Dhara in  New
Delhi  and Anoop Agrawal in Jaipur. Editors: Cherian Thomas,
Sunil Jagtiani  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  