-- 
India May Allow Companies to Buy Back Government-Owned Shares

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 
2011-10-13T07:09:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/india-may-allow-state-companies-to-buy-back-government-stakes.html
India  may allow state-owned
companies to buy back shares held by the government, providing
the country with funds to fill a budget gap after proceeds from
public offerings of the stakes have dwindled.  “Some of these companies are cash rich and their cash
hoard is bigger than their annual turnover,” Disinvestment
Secretary Mohammad Haleem Khan said in an interview in New Delhi
yesterday. “They have their minds open to all options available
to non-state companies.”  Selling the stakes back to companies is one way the
government could make progress toward a goal of raising 400
billion rupees ($8.2 billion) in the year through March. Limited
to public stock offerings so far, India has raised 11.4 billion
rupees since April, or about 3 percent of the target, as falling
stock markets hurt demand for the shares.  Funds raised from asset sales will be used to help plug the
nation’s fiscal deficit. India plans to reduce the annual
deficit to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product, the lowest in
four years.  “For me, it’s not just about meeting a particular
target,” said Khan, 58, who assumed his post in June. “I have
to meet the expectations of the government regarding the
realization of pricing. It is a trade-off.”  Indian companies, including those backed by the government,
have raised 290 billion rupees in domestic share sales in 2011,
less than half the 700 billion rupees of stock they sold in the
same period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  No Entry  Foreigners are seeking assurances that India’s growth will
continue, according to Khan, who met with fund managers in  New
York  last month. “Some investors, who are very big ones and
long-term ones, were saying: ‘Your mode of investment does not
let us enter in a big way’,” he said.  State-owned companies allocate 35 percent of new stock
offerings to the general public, and don’t reserve a portion of
the sale for large funds like privately held companies do.  “If the investment options available to them are very
small, it doesn’t fit into their scheme of things,” Khan said,
referring to international institutional investors. “Over a
period of time, we might be able to look into this.”  The  disinvestment department  is also considering selling
government-held stakes through block trades, or the sale of a
large amount of shares at once, said Khan.  India’s largest IPO was that of Coal India Ltd. in October
2010. The sale was 15 times oversubscribed and raised 152
billion rupees, helping the government meet part of its asset-
sale target for that year. This year, the government has closed
one offering, the 11.4 billion rupee sale of shares in Power
Finance Corp.  Planned Sales  Khan’s department plans to sell stakes in companies
including Oil and Natural Gas Corp., India’s largest energy
explorer,  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL)  and National Building
Construction Corp. by March, Khan said. The government will meet
this month to decide how to proceed with the Oil and Natural Gas
stake sale, which was scrapped last month, Khan said.  The government also wants to divest stakes in Rashtriya
Ispat Nigam Ltd. and Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. through initial
public offerings that may take place in the first six months of
2012, Khan said. His department also has approval for a stake
sale in Tyre Corporation of India Ltd. and is in the process of
finding a suitable buyer, he said.  Global investment banks in India have managed most state
share sales for near-zero fees as they vie for league table
credit that may help them win more advisory roles. As the  equity
capital markets  dried up this year, some firms are balking at
working for no pay.  Banks Opt Out  Last month, Edelweiss Financial Services Ltd. and IDFC
Capital Ltd. pulled out of a sale by Rashtriya Ispat, India’s
second-biggest state-run steelmaker after refusing to match a 1
rupee fee offered by UBS AG. Deutsche Bank AG agreed to the fee,
people familiar with the matter said at the time.  “The domestic banks said they are not making money in the
present scenario so they would not like to stretch their
resources,” Khan said. “If it’s a standalone situation we can
continue with the existing practices.”  Still, Khan said India may have to re-evaluate existing fee
guidelines should more domestic banks refuse to help underwrite
such deals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  