-- 
Infosys Net Income Beats Estimates on U.S. Outsourcing Demand, Shares Jump

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-10-12T13:05:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/infosys-profit-beats-estimates-on-increased-demand-for-computing-services.html
Infosys Ltd.,  India ’s second-largest
software exporter, reported second-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as U.S. customers outsourced more services.  Net income rose 9.8 percent to 19.1 billion rupees ($387
million), or 33.36 rupees a share, in the three months ended
Sept. 30, from 17.4 billion rupees, or 30.40 rupees, a year
 earlier , Infosys said today. Profit beat the 18.7 billion rupee
median of 35 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Infosys rose the most in more than two years in Mumbai
trading, leading stocks of  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  and
 Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  higher, after earnings beat expectations for the
first time in a year and the company raised full-year sales
guidance. The Bangalore-based code writer joins  Accenture Plc (ACN)  in
posting better-than-expected earnings, signaling outsourcing
demand remains buoyant.  “The dollar revenue outlook for the third quarter and the
rupee guidance for the full year are positive,” Rohit Kumar Anand, an analyst at PINC Infinity.com Financial Services Ltd.
said by phone. “Expectations were muted.”  The shares climbed 7 percent, the most since May 2009, to
2,679.35 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The stock was
the best performer on the benchmark BSE Sensitive Index, which
advanced 2.6 percent. Tata Consultancy, India’s largest software
exporter, rose 3.7 percent, while Wipro added 2.6 percent.  U.S. Focus  Revenue from the Americas grew 6.2 percent last quarter
from the preceding three months, driven by increased outsourcing
in the financial services, banking and retail sectors, Ashok Vemuri, head of Infosys’s Americas division, told reporters.
That compares with 0.8 percent growth in  Europe .  “We believe that the Americas are going to be a very major
component of our growth,” Vemuri said. “There is some amount
of trepidation with respect to Greece and Europe.”  India’s software companies may be regaining contracts in
the U.S. that they lost after the collapse of firms including
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. While Infosys had said
last year it was looking to expand more in Europe, the deepening
financial crisis there makes the U.S. attractive again.  Growth in the banking and financial services sector in the
Americas was 8.5 percent, versus 5.5 percent globally, Vemuri
said. U.S. banks are “pretty confident in terms of what they’ll
be able to achieve” he said. “Unless there is a complete
disaster which is much larger than the Lehman crisis, they are
fairly well prepared.”  Forecast Raised  Sales in the third quarter may range between $1.80 billion
and $1.84 billion, Infosys said. Sales in the year ending in
March may range between $7.08 billion and $7.2 billion, compared
with a July forecast for as much as $7.3 billion, it said.  Infosys raised the full year sales guidance in rupee terms
to between 335 billion rupees and 340.9 billion rupees from an
earlier forecast for between 317.8 billion rupees and 323.1
billion rupees.  “The rupee guidance number for the full year seems to be a
pretty strong one,” Sanjeev Prasad, an analyst at Kotak
Institutional Equities, told Bloomberg UTV. “A percentage point
change in the dollar guidance doesn’t really mean that the world
has changed. A 17 percent to 19 percent growth is still a pretty
decent number.”  The Indian code-writer renewed an outsourcing contract with
Alcoa Inc. for five more years, and sold its banking software to
Philippines-based City Saving Bank. Infosys added  45 customers 
last quarter taking the total to 647. It also signed one
contract worth more than $300 million.  ‘More Cautious’  Revenue in the second quarter totaled 81 billion rupees,
compared with 69.5 billion rupees a year earlier, Infosys said.
The company derived 65.3 percent of its revenue from companies
in  North America  in the three-month period, up from 64.2 percent
in the preceding quarter. Sales in Europe declined to 20.5
percent from 21.3 percent.  Macroeconomic uncertainties including in Europe “are
leading to customers being more cautious about their investment
decisions,” said Chief Executive Officer S.D. Shibulal, who
presented his first earnings since taking charge in August. “At
the same time, we are not seeing project cancellations or
program cancellations. We are not seeing budget cuts as of right
now. We’re also seeing investment in certain areas.”  U.S. business and government spending on IT goods and
services, which includes computer equipment and outsourcing,
will increase 6.4 percent to an estimated $802 billion in 2012,
according to a Sept. 16 report from Forrester Inc.  Europe, meanwhile, will have the slowest growth in IT
spending in local currency terms in 2012, the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Forrester said.  “Some companies are hiking their IT budgets for 2012, and
by a substantial number, at that,” said Pralay Kumar Das, an
analyst with Elara Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai who rates
Infosys “accumulate.” “The American incumbent IT players are
doing very well, and in fact are raising their guidance. If
there’s no reason for them to say demand in Europe and U.S. is
falling off, then I don’t see why it should be the case for
Indian vendors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  