-- 
Hip Implants Targeted for Health-Device Probe by House Democrats

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-10-12T17:37:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/hip-implants-targeted-for-health-device-probe-by-house-democrats.html
House Democrats asked Republican
leaders to investigate the safety of metal-on-metal hip implants
made by companies such as  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and stents used to
clear clogged brain arteries.  Energy and Commerce Committee Democrats led by
Representative Henry Waxman of California urged Republicans in a
letter today to hold hearings on the devices as the panel
focuses on reauthorizing industry user fees that fund U.S.
regulators’ review of new medical products. Past hearings have
focused on delays in device approvals, the letter said.  “Looking further into the ‘metal-on-metal’ hip implants
and brain stents, two high-profile devices that appear to have
resulted in significant harm to human health, would shed further
light on the regulation of medical devices,” the Democratic
lawmakers wrote.  “Tiny metal particles may wear off” metal-on-metal hip
implants and enter the bloodstream from friction of the ball and
cup, the  Food and Drug Administration  said. The agency has
received more than 5,000 complaints about the implants,
according to the Democrats’ letter. About 500,000 patients have
received metal-on-metal hips.  About 15 percent of patients implanted with the Wingspan
stent system to open a clogged brain artery and at high risk for
a second stroke had a stroke or died within 30 days of the
procedure, compared with almost 6 percent of patients treated
without a stent, according to a  National Institutes of Health 
study released Sept. 7 by the New England Journal of Medicine.  Approval Process  The stents from Natick, Massachusetts-based  Boston
Scientific Corp. (BSX)  were approved in 2005 under a humanitarian
exemption that lets a maker bypass full premarket approval when
the condition affects fewer than 4,000 people, according to the
letter. The company last year sold its neurovascular unit,
including the Wingspan stents, to Kalamazoo, Michigan-based
 Stryker Corp. (SYK)   Representatives Frank Pallone of  New Jersey , Diana DeGette
of Colorado and John Dingell of  Michigan  also signed the letter
to Fred Upton, a Michigan Republican and chairman of the
committee. Staff members for Upton didn’t return a request for
comment on whether he would investigate the devices.  The hip implants were cleared for sale through the agency’s
device approval process known as 510(k), for which clinical data
isn’t typically required and device makers instead show the
product is similar to one already on the market.  Johnson & Johnson, based in  New Brunswick , New Jersey, and
Boston Scientific didn’t immediately return requests to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 