-- 
IPhone 4S Yaks Back, Shoots Fast, Goes Global: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-10-12T01:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/iphone-4s-yaks-back-shoots-fast-goes-global-rich-jaroslovsky.html
There’s no way to tell the
difference between  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new iPhone 4S and the previous
model. Until you turn it on.  In a week of using the 4S, I found so many new things
under the hood that, with a few cosmetic changes, the company
could legitimately have called it “iPhone 5” and no one would
have blinked.  The speech-recognition capabilities are vastly better than
on any other mobile device. The camera is much improved, not
just in specs but in ease of use. And though the phone runs over
3G, or third-generation,  data networks , it’s faster than some
phones that are being marketed as 4G.  The new iPhone -- available for order now and in stores on
Oct. 14 -- is physically identical to the iPhone 4. In the U.S.,
it costs $199 for a model with 16 gigabytes of storage on a two-
year contract, $299 for 32 gigabytes and $399 for 64 gigabytes.
The phone comes with the new  iOS 5  operating system, which I’ll
discuss in a future column.  The 4S runs on the networks used in the U.S. by  Verizon
Wireless  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , as well as on those used by
 AT&T Inc. (T)  and most of the rest of the world. That’s particularly
important for Verizon and Sprint users who travel
internationally and who won’t have to worry about their phones
becoming bricks outside the U.S.  Meeting Siri  The most interesting new feature is  Siri , the voice-
recognition system. You’ve long been able to run searches on
phones using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
has embedded speech-based features throughout the latest version
of its Windows Phone 7 operating system. Those phones, though,
have a limited vocabulary and often require you to phrase your
inquiries very carefully.  Siri is something different. Remember the scene in the old
 “Star Trek” movie  where a time-traveling Scotty tries to
direct a Mac by picking up the mouse and casually speaking into
it? Imagine it with just the mouse and not the Mac, and you’ve
got the essence of Siri: natural language integrated with the
phone’s sensors and software.  When I asked Siri, “Will I need an umbrella tonight?” its
robotic female voice informed me, “There’s no rain in the
forecast,” while the screen displayed the weather report for my
location. When I told it to find me a good Mexican restaurant in
my neighborhood, it displayed a listing ranked by Yelp ratings.  No Football Scores  When Siri couldn’t immediately provide an answer, as when I
asked for the score of the  San Francisco  49ers football game, it
offered a Web search. You can also use it to make appointments,
set reminders, dictate outgoing messages and read incoming ones.  Siri did occasionally trip up, sometimes because I confused
it with homonyms or ambiguous phrasing. For example, when I
asked it for “walking directions to 9 Lombard Street,” it
heard the “to” as “two” and provided directions to 29
Lombard instead. And when I was about to go outside and asked,
“Do I need a jacket?” it presented me with directions to the
nearest Men’s Wearhouse.  Still, it’s smart enough to be occasionally spooky, as when
I simply told it to text “David” -- and it correctly deduced
which of the 12 Davids in my address book I meant.  If not quite as awesome as Siri, the iPhone 4S camera is
still as good as you’re likely to find in a wireless phone,
surpassing my previous favorite, the Nokia N8.  More Light  The headline number -- the increase in megapixels to eight
from five -- doesn’t tell the whole story. More striking is
what’s been done with the optics and software, including a
larger lens aperture that lets more light hit the sensor, face
detection and the ability to shoot video in full 1080p high-
definition.  Sadly, the camera isn’t able to turn a mediocre
photographer into a good one. But I particularly appreciated the
ability to take pictures even when the phone was locked, and
that I could zoom in and out by pinching and zooming the image,
far more intuitive in a touchscreen device than the former
slider control.  The camera is also noticeably faster, thanks to the phone’s
new dual-core A5 processor, the same brain used in Apple’s iPad
2. Indeed, the faster processor, combined with changes to the
graphics, software and antennas, makes the iPhone 4S zippier
across the board -- in launching and running apps and even in
downloading data.  Beating Samsung  The 4S isn’t a “4G” device, but my tests showed it to be
as fast or faster on AT&T’s network as phones being sold as
“4G.” (Verizon and Sprint users won’t see that kind of
performance, owing to those carriers’ slower 3G networks.)  Using Ookla’s  Speedtest  app, I compared the 4S with Samsung
Electronics Co.’s new Galaxy S II, which AT&T labels as 4G. In
dozens of tests in and around San Francisco, the iPhone 4S
registered faster download speeds more than two-thirds of the
time.  It achieved that performance without any apparent
degradation in battery life. Apple says the new device provides
up to 8 hours of 3G talk time, an hour longer than the iPhone 4.
In regular though not constant use, I was able to go about a day
and a half between charges.  The phone’s new antenna design seems to have reduced the
number of dropped calls over AT&T’s much-maligned network,
though my sample was admittedly limited.  With the iPhone’s continuing advantage in number of apps
(500,000 and counting), its arrival on the Sprint network and
its ability to function as a world phone, the 4S doesn’t leave
many holes for the competition to plug.  And then there’s this: The 4S is the first phone you’ll
ever be tempted to ask for the secret of life. Go ahead --
you’ll get an answer, too. It isn’t from “ Star Trek ,” though
science-fiction readers will recognize, and get a chuckle from,
the response.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 