-- 
Apple IPhone 4S Gets Glowing Reviews for ‘Siri’ Voice Features

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-10-12T03:20:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/iphone-4s-gets-glowing-reviews-for-voice-features.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 4S received
positive reactions from technology gadget reviewers for its new
voice-recognition software, faster processing speed and improved
picture-taking quality.  The new features make up for any drawbacks of not altering
the body design, said reviewers from the  New York Times ,
Bloomberg News, the  Wall Street Journal  and USA Today. They
praised the voice-command feature named “Siri” that lets users
ask for weather updates, make calendar appointments or send
messages without tapping on the keyboard.  “Crazy good, transformative, category-redefining speech
recognition,” said David Pogue, the New York Times reviewer.  “Vastly better” than rival phones with voice commands,
said Bloomberg’s  Rich Jaroslovsky .  Siri is the “standout feature,” said Walt Mossberg of the
Wall Street Journal.  Many customers didn’t bother waiting for the reviews. While
the device doesn’t go on sale until Oct. 14, Apple said earlier
this week it received more than 1 million pre-orders for the
iPhone 4S, a record-setting pace for the company’s top-selling
product. The company could sell as many as 3 million this
weekend, said  Mike Abramsky , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets .  ‘Good Value’  Owners of the iPhone 4 don’t need to rush out and buy the
latest model, Mossberg said. The new iPhone isn’t a “dramatic
game-changer like previous models,” yet those with older iPhone
models or more basic phones will find it a “pleasure and a good
value,” he said.  Mossberg said that although the voice-recognition software
wasn’t perfect, he could dictate e-mails and text messages,
including while driving in a car with a Bluetooth headset.  The device has the same body design as the iPhone 4, which
debuted in June 2010. That similarity “conceals sheer magic,”
said the headline of the New York Times review.  Pogue, the newspaper’s technology reviewer, complimented
the new device’s more powerful A5 processor chip that was first
released inside the iPad 2 this year. It speeds up the device
and lets users move between applications more quickly. The
camera is “much better” and “among the best on a phone,” he
said.  25 Million iPhones  USA Today ’s Edward C. Baig said new features for storing
music and other files on Apple’s servers will make it easier for
users to access content from anywhere via a Web connection. The
new feature is “Apple’s digital hub for the Internet age,” he
said.  The new iOS 5 operating system has more than 200 new
features. Baig complimented its new notification system as an
improved way to quickly read through missed calls and messages.  The iPhone 4S will be Apple’s first major hardware release
since the Oct. 5 death of co-founder  Steve Jobs . It will be
available at Apple retail stores in the U.S. beginning at 8 a.m.
local time Friday and costs $199, $299 and $399, depending on
the features.  Apple may sell more than 25 million iPhones in the quarter
ending in December, making it the “strongest iPhone launch
ever,” said  Gene Munster , an analyst with Piper Jaffray Cos. in
 Minneapolis . The iPhone is Apple’s biggest source of revenue,
accounting for about half of sales.  For the first time, the phone works with both CDMA and GSM
wireless standards, which are used in different parts of the
world. The phone has an “intelligent antenna system” for
improved call quality.  Apple’s shares rose 3 percent to $400.29 yesterday in U.S.
trading. The stock has increased 24 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  