-- 
Ireland May ‘Warehouse’ Mortgages to Ease Repayment Burden

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-10-12T14:45:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/ireland-may-warehouse-mortgages-to-ease-repayment-burden.html
Ireland’s banks may “warehouse”
portions of home loans, enabling cash-strapped borrowers to pay
down a smaller sum for a period, according to a government-
appointed committee’s proposals to ease mortgage burdens.  So-called split mortgages “could be a viable solution in
certain circumstances,” the Inter-Departmental Working Group on
Mortgage Arrears said in a report published today in Dublin. The
distressed loan would be split into an affordable mortgage and
“‘warehousing the balance.” “Further deterioration” in
mortgage arrears is likely, the group said.  The report, which said some 55,000 mortgages are more than
90 days in arrears and another 70,000 have had repayment terms
relaxed, will be debated next week in the Irish parliament.
Ireland has pumped about 62 billion euros ($85 billion) into the
financial system after its real estate crash resulted in the
nationalization of Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and pushed other
institutions to the edge of collapse.  With split mortgages, the warehoused loan could be settled
at the end of its term with the proceeds of selling the property
or lump-sum pension payments, the report said. The mortgage-
arrears group consists of government officials, central bankers
and financial executives.  Bank Impact  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said today that the
group’s proposals wouldn’t result in new capital deficiencies
for the nation’s banks.  “We don’t want evictions, we don’t want people removed
from their own homes,” Noonan said at a press briefing in
Dublin today. “There must be a clear distinction made between
those who can’t pay and those who won’t pay.”  Noonan said he plans to move to implementation of some of
the proposals “straight away” after a debate on the report
next week in parliament. The  finance ministry  will bring forward
“an implementation strategy” on the proposals, he said.  In some circumstances, borrowers and banks should reach a
“reasonable and appropriate” accord on how the gap between a
property’s sale price and the outstanding mortgage balance
should be handled, the report said.  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  said it would pilot test some of the
proposals sketched out by the group, after dealing with more
than 5,000 customers under a mortgages resolution process.  “For many customers in difficulty, the existing
forbearance initiatives will allow them the time and breathing
space they need,” the Dublin-based lender said in an e-mail
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  