-- 
Israel, Hamas Agree to Release Shalit From Gaza Strip in Prisoner Exchange

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-10-12T12:48:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/israel-hamas-reach-agreement-to-free-shalit.html
Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit may be
released as early as next week after  Israel  and Hamas reached
agreement to end his five-year captivity in the  Gaza Strip  in
exchange for more than 1,000 Palestinian prisoners.  Shalit will be handed over to Egyptian officials on Oct.
17, said Abu Ataya, a spokesman for the Popular Resistance
Committees in the Gaza Strip, a group said to be involved in the
abduction. Israel will bus the first group of freed Palestinians
to Egypt and they will then cross into the Gaza Strip, he said.  “There was a willingness for flexibility on both sides,
perhaps from a sense of urgency,” said Jonathan Spyer, a
political scientist at the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya,
Israel. “Hamas was very much in need of a boost and this is a
return to political visibility.”  Shalit was seized by Hamas militants in an attack on an
Israeli army post on the border with the Gaza Strip in June
2006.  Egypt  and  Germany  have been trying for years to broker an
exchange in which he would be freed in return for the release of
Palestinian prisoners from Israeli jails. Negotiations in the
past stumbled over how many prisoners who had been involved in
violent attacks would be freed and whether they would be allowed
to return to the West Bank and Gaza.  Statehood Bid  The deal to free Shalit, 25, comes as the U.S. attempts to
restart peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians.
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , who controls the
West Bank, has refused to restart talks until Israel halts
settlement building and is instead pursuing statehood
recognition at the  United Nations , a step that is popular in
Gaza and the  West Bank , and opposed by Israel and the U.S.  Israel’s Cabinet approved the deal in a 26-3 vote early
today. Negotiators hammered out the swap through Egyptian
mediation and signed a draft in Cairo, Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said.  Mkhaimer Abusada, a political scientist at Gaza’s Al-Azhar
University, said Netanyahu’s decision to reach the agreement now
will boost Hamas and is a slap to Abbas.  “I don’t think it is a coincidence that Israel is trying
to undermine Abu Mazen,” Abusada said, referring to Abbas by
his popular nickname.  ‘National Achievement’  Hamas broke with Abbas’s Fatah faction in 2007 and seized
control of Gaza. The group, which won parliamentary elections in
2006, is considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S.
and the European Union.  The top Hamas leader, Khaled Mashaal, said in Damascus that
a total of 1,027 Palestinian prisoners would be freed in two
stages. Israel agreed to release 450 prisoners within a week and
the rest within two months, he said.  “This is a national achievement for the whole Palestinian
people,” Mashaal said at a televised news conference. “We all
have sacrificed.”  An Israeli official, speaking on condition of anonymity
because the details haven’t been made public, said that those to
be released include about 300 prisoners serving life terms,
though senior Palestinian officials including Marwan Barghouti,
Abdullah Barghouti and Ahmed Saadat will stay behind bars.  Tens of thousands of Palestinians in Gaza City came out
into the streets to exchange candies after the deal was
announced on Hamas-controlled Al-Aqsa Television. People
carrying green Hamas flags fired guns in the air to celebrate.  In  Jerusalem , Noam and Aviva Shalit, the soldier’s parents,
were shown on television embracing relatives and friends inside
a tent outside Netanyahu’s residence where they have maintained
a vigil during his captivity.  ‘Victory for Terror’  “I bring a proposal to the government for a deal that will
bring Gilad Shalit home alive and well,” Netanyahu said in
comments to the Cabinet e-mailed by his office. “I believe we
have reached the best agreement possible at this point in time
when storms are sweeping the Middle East.”  Uzi Landau, Israel’s minister for infrastructure, attacked
the agreement with Hamas, calling it a “huge victory for
terror” that will provide Palestinians with “incentive to kill
Israelis and to carry out further abductions,” the  Associated
Press  reported.  “After Gilad returns home we will have to think through
how we deal with abducted soldiers in a way that is appropriate
to the harsh rules of the region we live in,” Defense Minister
 Ehud Barak  said on  Army Radio . “This can’t become a methodical
pressure tactic used against Israel. ”  Settlement Freeze  The so-called  Middle East  Quartet, comprising the U.S.,
United Nations, European Union and  Russia , is trying to restart
peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians. Quartet envoys
on Oct. 9 proposed a meeting Oct. 23 in  Jordan  to discuss terms
for renewed talks.  Negotiations broke down last year after Netanyahu declined
to extend on 10-month freeze on West Bank settlement
construction.  The only contact between Shalit, who holds Israeli and
French citizenship, and the outside world during his captivity
has been three letters, an audio tape and a DVD that Israel
received in October 2009 in return for releasing 20 female
Palestinian prisoners.  Israel has agreed to prisoner exchanges in the past. In
July 2008, it released five Lebanese prisoners in return for the
bodies of two soldiers captured by the Lebanese Shiite Muslim
Hezbollah movement two years earlier in a cross-border raid by
the group that sparked a 33-day war between the two sides.  In a 2004 swap with Hezbollah, Israel exchanged about 400
Palestinian detainees and the bodies of 59 Lebanese for one
Israeli businessman and the bodies of three soldiers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 