-- 
Lithuania Seeks Funds From State Companies to Trim Budget Gap

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-10-12T09:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/lithuania-seeks-funds-from-state-companies-to-trim-budget-gap.html
Lithuanian state-owned enterprises
should give half of their profits to help trim the  budget
deficit  below the European Union limit of 3 percent of economic
output next year, Finance Minister  Ingrida Simonyte  said.  The government wants to raise two-thirds of the 1 billion
litai ($390 million) it needs to narrow the 2012 gap to 2.8
percent from the income of state-owned enterprises and sales of
land, Simonyte said in an interview in Vilnius yesterday. The
rest would come through 300 million litai from lowering
ministerial expenses, she said.  Lithuania wants to adopt the  euro  in 2014 and must reduce
the shortfall from an estimated 5.3 percent of GDP this year.
The Baltic nation must also cut the deficit to meet the 2012
deadline set by the European Commission as the shortfall has
breached the 3 percent threshold since 2008. Failure to do so
may prompt the EU’s executive arm to impose penalties.  “It’s not fair to taxpayers, who are the shareholders of
state-owned enterprises, that companies keep profits and have no
obligation to share the returns,” Simonyte said. “Legal
amendments will require companies to transfer half of their
profits to the budget.”  While the Baltic nation’s economy expanded 6.3 percent from
a year earlier in the second quarter, the second-fastest pace in
the European Union after  Estonia , the government may have to
contend with slower growth that will curb revenue as  Europe ’s
debt crisis roils financial markets and damps demand across the
continent.  Revised Forecast  The  Finance Ministry  may lower its 2012 economic-growth
forecast from 4.7 percent after the European Commission releases
its updated outlook in November, Simonyte said. Additional
budget measures would be needed if the new growth estimate sees
lower projected revenue, she added.  The government is expected to vote on a 2012 budget draft
today and must submit it to parliament by Oct. 17. Legislation
on requiring companies to divert a portion of their profits will
be submitted along with the budget, Simonyte said.  Enterprises including state railway operator Lietuvos
Gelezinkeliai AB, Klaipedos Nafta AB, which operates Lithuania’s
oil terminal on the  Baltic Sea , and the Klaipeda Port would
contribute to the 2012 budget revenue from income made in 2011,
she said.  The government also wants state-owned companies that pay
dividends to shareholders to raise the amounts set for next year
to channel more funds to the budget.  ‘Upside Risks’  “Given the upside risks to the fiscal deficit, a
contingency plan consisting of further measures should be
prepared” by the government, James Morsink, the  International
Monetary Fund’s  mission chief to Vilnius said on Oct. 10.  Meeting euro-adoption criteria next year to qualify for a
currency switch in 2014 is “possible, but not my central
scenario,” he added yesterday in a speech to the British
Chamber of Commerce in Vilnius.  Lithuania  will meet its 5.3 percent of GDP deficit target
for this year, compared with 7.1 percent of GDP in 2010, and the
approval of the plan for a 2.8 percent shortfall next year may
result in a credit-rating upgrade, Simonyte said.  “There’d be grounds for rating companies to review their
present assessment and consider a more positive rating,” she
said.  Simonyte said she couldn’t rule out a return to
international debt markets with a bond sale this year, though
“the current situation in the markets isn’t the most
favorable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  