-- 
Liverpool, Arsenal, Manchester Utd. Want Plymouth Teenager: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-10-12T09:41:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/liverpool-arsenal-manchester-utd-want-plymouth-teenager-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Next Big Thing?  Liverpool, Arsenal and  Manchester United  are chasing 16-
year-old Plymouth winger Matt Lecointe, the  Daily Mirror 
reported.  Lecointe has already made ten appearances for League Two
club Plymouth, the newspaper said.  City Targeting Napoli Players  Manchester City wants to sign midfielder Marek Hamsik and
striker Ezequiel Lavezzi from Napoli, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  This is likely to anger Napoli as both teams are in the
same Champions League group, the newspaper said.  City’s first-team coach Fausto Salsano was cited as saying
that Hamsik “has become a very important player” and Lavezzi
“is a devastating player who can hurt you one-on-one.”  D-Day for Tevez  Carlos Tevez may find out today whether Man City wants to
suspend him for another four weeks and raise his fine to six
weeks’ wages, totaling 1.5 million pounds ($2.4 million), the
 Sun  reported.  City on Sept. 28 suspended the Argentina striker for up to
two weeks while it investigated his alleged refusal to play in a
2-0 Champions League loss at Bayern Munich.  Although City interviewed everyone who was sat near Tevez
during the match, it is “unlikely” the club will be able to
prove he directly refused to play, the Sun said.  Becks’ United Return?  Los Angeles Galaxy player  David Beckham  would like to
return to Manchester United in a sporting director role, the  Sun 
reported.  The former England captain would like to follow in the
footsteps of ex-Real Madrid teammate  Zinedine Zidane , who has
taken up an advisory and coaching post at the Spanish club, the
newspaper said.  “I’d love to do that,” the paper quoted Beckham as
saying. “The best memory of my career came in 1999, no doubt,
when Manchester United won the treble.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 