-- 
Liz Claiborne Rises Most in 24 Years on Brand Sale

-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-10-12T21:32:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/liz-claiborne-rises-on-plan-to-sell-brand.html
(Corrects incorrect spelling of designer’s name in 12th
paragraph.)  Liz Claiborne Inc. (LIZ)  surged the most
since 1987 after announcing a plan to sell brands including its
namesake to J.C. Penney Co. and rename the company to focus on
the Juicy Couture, Kate Spade and  Lucky Brand  lines.  Liz Claiborne closed up 34 percent to $6.84 in New York, in
the biggest percentage gain since Oct. 21, 1987. The shares had
slid 29 percent this year before today.  The sale of Liz Claiborne, Monet and other brands will
bring in a combined $328 million in cash, helping to further cut
debt, the New York-based company said in a statement. Chief
Executive Officer William L. McComb, who took over in 2006, has
been refocusing the company on more expensive and contemporary
lines, culminating in today’s plan to sell the Liz Claiborne
brand created in 1976 for dressing women at work.  “This is a smart response and shows the challenges of
being an older brand and having to change with the times,” said
Robin Murchison, a Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst at
SunTrust Banks Inc., in a telephone interview. “The retail
world is littered with strong brand names and Liz needed to go
where the consumer would appreciate it.” She rates the shares
“neutral.”  Liz Claiborne plans to rename the company within 12 months,
saying it has yet to decide on a new identity, according to a
slide presentation on its website. Juicy Couture sells $325
black lace dresses and  Kate Spade  $695 short wool coats. Liz
Claiborne offers dresses priced at $70 and coats at $225.  ‘Global Lifestyle Brands’  “We are exploring options for a new corporate name that
will better reflect our keen focus on building and growing our
three global lifestyle brands Juicy Couture, Lucky Brand and
Kate Spade,” McComb said. “We will share the new name for the
corporation at the appropriate time.”  The proceeds from the latest sales will be used to reduce
debt, with net debt expected to be $270 million to $290 million
at the end of the year, according to the statement.  “At the close of these transactions, at a time when most
economists in the world are now agreeing that major European and
the U.S. markets are facing significant risks of another
recession, we will be a more appropriately levered, more capital
efficient, growth-oriented company,” McComb said.  Kensie, Mexx  Liz Claiborne also said today it would sell its Kensie line
to Bluestar Alliance. The J.C. Penney and Bluestar Alliance
transactions as well as the completion of the sale of Dana
Buchman brand to  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  are valued at a total of $328
million in cash, the apparel seller said in the statement. The
transactions are expected to be completed in the fourth quarter,
the company said. The apparel retailer said last month it will
sell a majority stake in its Mexx business to the Gores Group
LLC.  The company also lowered its profit forecasts to eliminate
the profits and losses associated with the changes in its
portfolio. Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization will be as much as $90 million
this year, compared with a prior forecast of as much as $120
million. Profit on that basis next year will be as much as $150
million, less than an earlier projection of as much as $220
million.  ‘Positive Surprise’  Liz Claiborne’s namesake sale is a “positive surprise”
for the brand because there is more value in the Lucky Brand and
Juicy Couture lines,  Edward Yruma , a New York-based analyst at
KeyBanc Capital Markets, said in a note today. He recommends
buying the shares.  The company was founded by Liz Claiborne in 1976 and went
on to produce billions in sales at stores such as  Macy’s Inc. (M) 
and  Dillard’s Inc. (DDS)  The brand suffered after Claiborne died of
cancer in 2007 and a line by designer  Isaac Mizrahi  failed to
garner interest.  J.C. Penney, based in Plano,  Texas , has been exclusive
licensee for all Liz Claiborne and Claiborne-brand merchandise
in the U.S. since August 2010. Under that earlier agreement,
J.C. Penney had the right to purchase the Liz Claiborne brands
after the fifth year of the deal or again after year 10. Today’s
announcement accelerates that sale.  “J.C. Penney benefits from this because they won’t have to
pay licensing fees anymore,” Murchison said. “The Liz line has
been doing well for them, where at other retailers it wasn’t so
successful.”  J.C. Penney rose 0.9 percent to $30.23 in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  