-- 
J&J Didn’t Warn Levaquin Riskier Than Rivals, Lawyer Argues

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-10-12T20:08:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/j-j-didn-t-warn-levaquin-riskier-than-rival-drugs-lawyer-says.html
A  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  unit never
warned users of the Levaquin antibiotic that it posed a greater
risk of tendon damage than rival medications, a lawyer for two
men suing the company said today.  Executives of J&J’s  Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceutical 
unit sought to protect sales by omitting information about
Levaquin’s “comparative risk”  from its warning label,  Andy
Alonso , a lawyer for Paul Gaffney and Robert Beare, said in
closing arguments in the trial of their lawsuits against the
drugmaker.  “They should be held to account for not fully disclosing”
that they knew Levaquin generated a higher number of reports of
Achilles tendon injuries than competing antibiotics, Alonso told
a state court jury in Atlantic City,  New Jersey , today.  The case is the third over Levaquin tendon injuries to go
to trial since November and the first to be tried in New Jersey
state courts. J&J faces more than 2,600 claims in U.S. courts
over the drug, court dockets show.  A lawyer for the J&J unit countered today that for more
than a decade starting in 1996, Levaquin’s labels contained
repeated warnings about the risk of tendon injuries associated
with the drug.  Gaffney’s and Beare’s own doctors said “they were aware”
of the tendon risk posed by the drug, Christy Jones, one of the
drugmaker’s lawyers, told jurors in her closing argument today.  $1 Billion Sales  Levaquin, which generated more than $1 billion in sales
over an eight-year period starting in 2000, was J&J’s third-
largest selling product at one point. In 2008, the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration  required all makers of antibiotics in
Levaquin’s class to beef up warnings about tendon ruptures.  Regulators required the upgraded warnings after finding
that the antibiotics increased the risk of tendon ruptures to
three to four times that of the general population, FDA
officials said.  Lawyers for a Minnesota man relied on the FDA’s push for
stronger warnings on the class of antibiotics that included
Levaquin to convince a federal court jury in December 2010 to
award him a total of $1.8 million in damages over tendon damage
he blamed on the drug. A separate jury in June rejected another
former Levaquin user’s claim for damages over his Achilles-
tendon injury.  Both Gaffney, 67, and Beare, 72, got Levaquin prescriptions
to deal with bronchitis brought on by sinus infections,
according to court filings. Both men wound up with Achilles-
tendon injuries that left them unable to walk for a time and
required surgery.  Adequate Warning?  Jones noted in her summation that both men had preexisting
health conditions that played a role in their tendon injuries
and their own doctors refused to blame Levaquin for the
ruptures. She also argued that regulatory officials didn’t
require the J&J unit to include information about the
comparative risks of Levaquin and other antibiotics on the
product’s label.  Gaffney and Beare had “significant problems before they
were prescribed Levaquin,” she said.  Alonso acknowledged the two men had tendon problems before
they took the drug. He argued that Levaquin exacerbated those
problems and led to tendon ruptures.  “Nobody had more information about this drug than J&J and
they didn’t share it,” the lawyer said. Given that omission,
jurors should find the J&J unit didn’t provide an adequate
warning about the drug’s risk, Alonso added.  The case is Beare v. Johnson & Johnson, L-196-10-MT,
Superior Court of New Jersey for Atlantic County ( Atlantic
City ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Atlantic City, New Jersey, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  