-- 
Japan’s Machinery Orders Rise, Signaling Corporate Investment May Recover

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-10-12T03:04:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/japan-s-machinery-orders-rise-signaling-corporate-investment-may-recover.html
Japan ’s machinery orders rebounded
in August on demand for electrical products, signaling that
companies are willing to invest even as global economic growth
slows and the yen stays near post-World War II highs.  Bookings rose 11 percent in August from July, the fastest
increase in a year, the Cabinet Office said in Tokyo today. The
indicator of  capital spending  in three to six months was
projected to increase 3.9 percent, according to the median
forecast of 31 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Orders
fell 8.2 percent in July from June.  Today’s report contrasts with data last month that
undershot economist forecasts, including exports, industrial
output and retail sales. A yen appreciation that Nissan Motor
Co. chief executive officer  Carlos Ghosn  said last week may
cause a “hollowing out” of Japan’s industrial base also
threatens to derail a rebound in the nation’s economy.  “This is a relief as we thought investment may have begun
plunging with uncertainties about  Europe  and the U.S. growing,”
said  Masamichi Adachi , senior economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in Tokyo and a former  Bank of Japan  official.   Still, “today’s
gain doesn’t guarantee sustainable capital spending ahead,” he
said.  Helping push up overall orders were a 29.5 percent increase
in demand for electrical machinery in August from July and a
74.6 percent jump in orders for information technology-related
machinery, according to the Cabinet Office.  Yen’s Advance  Japan’s currency, which has risen 5.7 percent so far this
year against the dollar, touched a postwar high of 75.95 on Aug.
19. The yen traded at 76.72 per dollar at 11:45 a.m. in  Tokyo ,
little changed from the level before the report.  Officials of Japan’s biggest business lobby, Nippon
Keidanren, told Finance Minister Jun Azumi in a Tokyo meeting
today that the strong yen is a problem without specifically
discussing steps to stem its gains, said Mitsuo Mitani, a
parliamentary secretary at the ministry. Mitani spoke to
reporters after attending a meeting between Azumi and Keidanren
officials including Chairman  Hiromasa Yonekura .  Large companies plan to increase capital spending 3 percent
in the year ending March 2012, less than economist forecasts for
a 4.3 percent advance, the Bank of Japan’s Tankan report showed
last week.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its forecast for Japan’s real
economic growth during this fiscal year to 0.1 percent from 0.2
percent due to a slowdown in global expansion, it said this
month.  “I expect Japan’s economy will have a big slowdown” after
this quarter, said  Ryutaro Kono , chief economist at BNP Paribas
SA in Tokyo, said before the report.  To keep the recovery going, Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s
government is implementing measures to cope with the yen’s
gains, including subsidies for companies. The ruling  Democratic
Party  of Japan has proposed a 12 trillion yen ($156 billion)
stimulus package to support the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  