-- 
Jay-Z, Gwyneth Ogle Tertulia’s $72 Prime Rib, $20 Ham: Review

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-10-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/jay-z-gwyneth-ogle-tertulia-s-72-prime-rib-20-iberico-ham-ryan-sutton.html
Jamon Iberico de Bellota, a luxury
ham on par with foie gras and truffles, rules Tertulia, a new
tapas spot in  Manhattan ’s West Village.  Chef Seamus Mullen makes it the star of his menu -- 1.5
ounces for 20 bucks (that’s $213 per pound).  The thick-cut, mahogany-hued meat has a floral, coconut
perfume, hinting at the acorns the black-foot pigs were raised
on. Complement it with one of seven sherries, maybe Palo Cortado
or Oloroso, fortified wines with the punch of caramel yet none
of the cloying sugar.  The kitchen piles garlic-chili potatoes over soft-cooked
egg and toast, topped with Iberico.  Mullen blends more of the ham into bechamel-studded
croquetas ($9). He cuts sticky snail rice, loaded with fennel,
with the same fine meat. He takes an Iberico skirt steak and
grills it rare, a bloody porcine treat with the spidery marbling
of Kobe.  Is this three-star food? Yes, though if this were a three-
star restaurant, Mullen would regulate the crowds (the bar can
be three deep), cut the 90-minute waiting time, take
reservations (only parties of 6 or more may book ahead), add
soundproofing (the noise can exceed 80 decibels) and teach
staffers not to drop stuff on the hard floors.  Designer Food  Instead,  Tertulia  jibes with New York’s haute-casual
zeitgeist, a reasonable tradeoff given the designer food at
discount prices. Who’s that dining with Jay-Z?  Gwyneth Paltrow 
and  Chris Martin , of course. They don’t care about the lost
half-star for the wait.  Skeptics will argue that $5 is too much for pan con tomate,
a traditional tomato and garlic rub invented to revive day-old
bread. Believers like me will counter that it’s one of the best
versions in town, a tight balance of sour, sugar and salt.  Tertulia, with painted brick and dark wood, is modeled on
Northern Spain’s Asturian cider houses. Too bad the cider lacks
any zing. The flat beverage, the pomaceous equivalent of an
English cask ale, lacks the vibrant acidity of good apples.
Here’s a better way to label Tertulia: It’s our most adventurous
tapas restaurant after the offal-heavy Casa Mono.  Cauliflower is fried with tripe, the finger food a
brilliant vessel for mojo picon, the smoky cumin-spiked sauce
from the  Canary Islands . At Boqueria, Mullen’s old, somewhat
uneven Spanish spot, the chef would pair chorizo with quail
eggs. Now he subs out the sausage for pig’s cheek. Cool.  Fatty Breast  Chicken breast is lean. Lamb breast is not. Most chefs give
diners a blubbery mess. Mullen butchers the complicated cut into
a 50/50 ratio of fat to meat. He cooks the lamb thrice: a quick
cold smoke, a three-hour confit, then a pass on the grill. The
musty fat dissolves in the mouth; a swath of sheep’s yogurt
counters the gamey musk.  The 40-day  Creekstone  prime rib ($72) is not for beginners.
It’s for those who love the concentrated flavor of dry-aged
beef. The mineral-tinged beauty is cooked medium; the extra heat
helps render out the fat; vinegared potatoes cut the richness.  Swordfish oozes its oils into a pile of tomatoes. Baby
cuttlefish are infused with the smoke of hardwood embers.
Delicious, dreamily saffroned seafood paella ($42) smells as
wonderful as it tastes; don’t forget to scrape off and savor the
crunchy rice. Finish things off with a sea-salted chocolate
tart.  At 11 p.m. on a Friday there’s still a wait, because this
is where Manhattan is eating right now. Rightly so.  Rating: ** 1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Most small plates under $20.  Sound Level: Can get very loud, around 80 decibels.  Date Place: If your date can wait in wingtips or heels.  Inside Tip: Let the word Iberico guide your choices.  Special feature: Wide selection of sherries.  Will I be back? Late at night, when the crowds thin.  Tertulia is at 359 Sixth Avenue, near Washington Place.
Information: +1-646-559-9909 or  http://tertulianyc.com/ .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to
converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak up, please. 61 to 65: Lean
in if you want to hear your date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one
another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn because you’re yelling. 76
to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in  New York  at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 