-- 
Job Openings Fell in August, Hiring Climbed

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-10-12T14:33:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/job-openings-in-u-s-fell-in-august-in-sign-labor-recovery-will-take-time.html
Job openings in the U.S. fell in
August for the first time in four months, signaling a sustained
labor market recovery will take time to unfold.  The number of positions waiting to be filled dropped by
157,000 to 3.06 million, according to Labor Department figures
issued today in  Washington . Hiring increased by 38,000 to 4.01
million.  Payrolls climbed by 103,000 workers in September, a better-
than-forecast outcome that included 45,000 returning Verizon
Communications Inc. strikers. With unemployment hovering above 9
percent, the economy slowing and concerns of a European default
mounting, employers may be slow to further boost hiring.  “Companies don’t want to risk making additional hires with
the outlook so uncertain,”  Chris Rupkey , chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York , said
before the report.  “Corporations are playing it very close to
the vest and keeping payrolls lean.”  Job openings decreased 4.9 percent in August from a revised
3.21 million in July that were smaller than initially reported,
the data showed. The drop in vacancies was led by trade,
transportation and utilities.  Today’s report helps shed light on the dynamics behind the
monthly employment figures. The gain in payrolls in September
followed a revised 57,000 increase the prior month, Labor
Department figures showed Oct. 7. August payrolls were
previously reported as having been little changed.  Fewer Firings  Employers discharged 1.66 million workers in August, down
from 1.69 million in July, the report also showed. Total
separations, which include firings, retirements and those who
left their jobs voluntarily, were little changed at 3.97
million.  In the 12 months ended in August, the economy created a net
1.2 million jobs, representing about 47.9 million hires and
about 46.7 million separations, today’s report showed.  Compared with the 14 million Americans who were unemployed
in August, today’s figures indicate there were more than four
people vying for every opening, up from about two when the last
recession began in December 2007.  The number of jobless was little changed at 14 million in
September, keeping the  unemployment rate  at 9.1 percent for a
third straight month, the Labor Department reported last week.  Shares Retreat  Debate in Washington over the budget and mounting fear of a
default in  Europe  caused the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
plummet 16 percent from July 22 to Aug. 22, making companies and
consumers more pessimistic. The lack of hiring is one reason why
Federal Reserve policy makers last month announced more
unconventional measures to stimulate growth.  “Economic growth remains slow,” Fed policy makers said
Sept. 21 as they announced a plan to bring down longer-term
lending rates. While officials said they “expect some pickup in
the pace of recovery over coming quarters,” they anticipate
“the unemployment rate will decline only gradually.”  President  Barack Obama  last month proposed a $447 billion
jobs plan that economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast would
help avoid a return to recession by maintaining growth and
pushing down the unemployment rate next year. Last night, the
plan failed to draw the 60 votes needed in the Senate to advance
the measure, prompting Obama to vow to press ahead for passage
of individual provisions of his program.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest  U.S. bank , is among firms
that have turned more cautious about hiring. It said last month
it will limit hiring to only “critical” jobs as the economic
slowdown continues and revenue slumps.  “We are currently only filling positions we believe are
critical to the line of business or function,”  Shannon Bell , a
spokeswoman for the New York-based bank, said in an interview
Sept. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  