-- 
Jova Weakens to Tropical Storm as Rains Drench Western Mexico

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-10-12T15:35:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/jova-weakens-to-tropical-storm-as-rains-drench-western-mexico.html
Jova weakened to a tropical storm as
it moved across western  Mexico  with 65-mile-per-hour winds and
heavy rain, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  Jova’s top winds fell from 75 mph (121 kilometers per hour)
as it moved north at 6 mph, about 15 miles east of Puerto
Vallarta, according to a  center advisory  at 11 a.m. East Coast
time. The storm went ashore earlier today near Manzanillo as a
Category 1 hurricane and may dissipate tomorrow.  Mexico changed its hurricane warnings to tropical storm
warnings from Manzanillo north to Cabo Corrientes and dropped
all watches and warnings south of Manzanillo.  “Even as Jova weakens and the wind and surge threats
decrease, inland flooding over Mexico will remain a major
concern,” the center said in a forecast analysis. “Heavy rains
due to Jova are likely to continue.”  Jova is expected to drop 6 to 12 inches of rain across the
Mexican states of Michoacan, Colima, Jalisco and Nayarit and
some spots may receive 20 inches, the center said. The rain may
cause “life-threatening flash floods and mudslides over steep
terrain,” according to the advisory.  The state government of Jalisco suspended school until
tomorrow and evacuated 500 people from “high-risk areas,”
according to a statement on its website. The storm isn’t likely
to affect the opening ceremony of the Pan American Games,
scheduled for Oct. 14 in Guadalajara, it said.  In neighboring Nayarit state, Governor Roberto Sandoval
yesterday canceled all classes in coastal municipalities and
opened 331 shelters, according to the state government website.  West of Jova, in the Pacific,  Tropical Storm Irwin  is about
480 miles from the southern tip of  Baja California  with winds of
40 mph. It is forecast to weaken to a tropical depression and
dissipate over the Pacific.  The NHC is also monitoring a tropical depression bearing 35
mph winds about 130 miles southeast of Salina Cruz, Mexico. The
system will bring “very heavy rainfall” to southern Mexico and
 Guatemala , the center said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  