-- 
JPMorgan Net Income May Show 10% Decline

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-10-12T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/jpmorgan-third-quarter-profit-may-show-10-decline-on-investment-banking.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  may say profit
slid 10 percent in the third quarter, the biggest drop in more
than two years, as Europe’s credit crisis and the U.S. debt-
ceiling debate spoiled optimism for an economic recovery.  Tomorrow’s report from the New York-based bank will
probably show earnings of $3.96 billion, according to the
average estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That
compares with $4.42 billion a year earlier and $5.43 billion in
the three months ended June 30.  Jes Staley, chief executive officer of JPMorgan’s
investment bank, braced investors last month for a 30 percent
drop in trading revenue from the second quarter, when the
company generated $5.5 billion from that business. He said fees
from  investment banking  would tumble almost 50 percent to $1
billion. About $2 trillion in corporate bond issues came to
market in the first half before volume plummeted to about $550
billion in the third quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We expect another challenging quarter for the universal
bank group,”  Frederick Cannon  and David Konrad, analysts at
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. in  New York , wrote in an Oct. 10
research note. “Declining markets and elevated volatility is
expected not only to slow investment-banking and trading
revenues but also to cause negative marks in investments.”  JPMorgan, the first of the major U.S. banks to report
third-quarter earnings, will be a barometer for the rest of the
industry and the broader  U.S. economy , the analysts wrote.  Reserve Releases  CEO  Jamie Dimon , 55, led the bank to a record $17.4 billion
in net income last year, the most of any U.S. bank. Earnings
were buoyed by the release of $7 billion in reserves back into
income as the U.S. economy improved, a benefit that may have
continued in the third quarter and helped “soften the blow,”
 Jason Goldberg , an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in New York,
wrote in an Oct. 7 research note.  At the same time, legal costs to settle lawsuits and other
claims against the company’s soured mortgage book will continue
to erode earnings, the analysts said.  The bank, whose $2.25 trillion in assets as of June 30
makes it second to Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , is “the safe play” for investors in the sector,
Cannon and Konrad said.  Paul Miller , a former examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank
of Philadelphia and analyst with FBR Capital Markets in
Arlington, Virginia, instead recommends that investors either
“stay on the sidelines” or place their bets on better
capitalized banks such as  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. and U.S. Bancorp, he said in an Oct. 10
research note.  Citigroup, Wells Fargo  New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S.
lender, may report a profit of $2.5 billion when it releases
results on Oct. 17, and Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco ,
will probably say it earned $3.87 billion when it announces
results the same day, the survey of analysts shows. Bank of
America may report a profit of $2.69 billion on Oct. 18 while
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  may say it earned $45.3 million.  Slowing economic growth and heightened worries about
European sovereign debt have weighed on bank stocks all year.
None of the 24 members of the KBW Bank Index has posted a gain
in 2011, and the worst performer, Bank of America, is down 52
percent through yesterday. A jump in borrowing costs at some
banks, including New York-based Morgan Stanley, subsided last
week as investors became more optimistic that European Union
policy makers would solve the sovereign debt and banking crisis.  Political ‘Incompetence’  “American and EU politicians reached the limit of their
incompetence many months ago,”  Christopher Whalen , founder of
Institutional Risk Analytics, said in a research note yesterday.
“We see the lack of business volumes and political uncertainty
going into 2012 as far more troubling trends in terms of non-
interest revenue sources for all financials.”  Frederic Janbon, the global head of fixed-income at Paris-
based BNP Paribas SA, said in an interview that financial
markets have become “almost as dysfunctional and illiquid as
they were in 2008.”  “The market is very difficult to trade and highly
sensitive to political news,” Janbon said. “Political risk has
moved to the forefront of people’s minds when looking at the
U.S. and  Europe . Since July, anticipation of global economic
slowdown has fundamentally changed this situation. Anxiety has
now spread to all credit products.”  Loan growth in the U.S. remains stagnant and net interest
margins, which measure the profit margin on lending, continue to
decline. Bank loans and leases fell $2.1 billion to $6.829
trillion from August 2010 through Sept. 28, according to Federal
Reserve  data .  Financial companies have recorded losses and writedowns of
$2.09 trillion stemming from the U.S. housing crisis, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  