-- 
Baer Says Sarasin Is Good ‘Fit’ After Newspaper Reports Bid

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-10-12T17:05:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/julius-baer-made-offer-for-bank-sarasin-handelszeitung-says.html
Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  said Bank
Sarasin & Cie. AG would be a “good strategic fit,” after a
newspaper reported it had made an offer for the Basel,
Switzerland-based private bank.  “It would be a good strategic fit as the business models
are similar,” said Jan Bielinski, a spokesman for Zurich-based
 Julius Baer , who declined to comment on speculation that the
bank has made a bid. “The cultures are similar because of the
heritage of family ownership.”  Sarasin, a private bank controlled by Rabobank Groep NV,
rose 1.4 percent to 28.5 Swiss francs in Zurich trading, valuing
the company at 1.77 billion francs ($1.98 billion). Baer has
made a non-binding bid for Sarasin,  Handelszeitung  reported as
the market closed, citing an unidentified Zurich-based
investment banker.  Baer Chief Executive Officer Boris Collardi said in July
that a takeover in Switzerland could lead to “cost synergies.”
The country’s fifth-biggest wealth manager is seeking
acquisitions to compete with larger rivals such as UBS AG and
building branch networks in Europe and  Asia  as clients reassess
the benefits of cross-border accounts.  “We don’t comment on such rumors,” said Franziska
Gumpfer-Keller, a spokeswoman for Sarasin, which has 101.6
billion francs of assets under management. Kees Nanninga, a
Utrecht, the Netherlands-based spokesman for Rabobank declined
to comment.  Sarasin CEO Joachim Straehle said in July that he favored a
 management buyout  after first-half profit increased by 20
percent. Rabobank has 68.6 percent of Sarasin’s voting rights
and a 46.1 percent equity stake.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is involved in the bidding process,
 Handelszeitung  reported in the pre-release of story to be
published in tomorrow’s edition of the Zurich-based newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net 
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthias Wabl at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net  