-- 
Junk Enters Distress as Yields Soar to Highest Since 2009: Credit Markets

-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 
2011-10-12T15:57:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/junk-enters-distress-as-yields-soar-to-highest-since-2009-credit-markets.html
Yields on bonds from the neediest
companies to the most creditworthy are soaring to levels last
seen almost two years ago as a slowing global economy makes it
harder for borrowers to meet debt payments.  Borrowing costs for companies from the U.S. to Europe to
 Asia  expanded to 5.077 percent, the highest since November 2009,
on Oct. 10, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Global junk yields rose above 10 percent this month, the
level considered distressed, for the first time since December
2009.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday that the sovereign crisis “has reached a systemic
dimension” as political leaders race to recapitalize the
region’s banks with  Greece  on the brink of default. In the U.S.,
earnings excluding financial companies are forecasted to grow
the least since the end of 2009 as the economic recovery
falters, reducing borrowers’ cushions to repay debt.  “Sovereign risk is poking its ugly head up in  Europe  over
and over again,” said  Rajeev Sharma , a money manager at First
Investors Management Co. in New York, where he helps oversee
$1.5 billion of investment-grade debt. “The exposure banks and
a lot of firms have to Europe is definitely a cause of
concern.”  GE Capital   The higher yields mean a borrower would have to pay an
additional $912,000 in annual interest on $100 million of bonds
compared with this year’s low of 4.165 percent on Aug. 4, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The extra yield investors demand to hold investment-grade
and junk-rated corporate bonds worldwide reached 370 basis
points, or 3.7 percentage points, on Oct. 4, the highest since
July 2009, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Corporate & High Yield Index. Spreads have since declined to
352. High-risk, high-yield debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  Elsewhere in credit markets,  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s finance
unit and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , owner of Warner Bros. film studio,
are tapping the U.S. corporate bond market as confidence grows
that European leaders may tame the region’s debt crisis.  GE Capital Corp., based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , plans to
sell five- and 10-year notes and New York-based Time Warner is
marketing bonds due in January 2022 and October 2041, according
to people familiar with the offerings. Both sales may be
benchmark in size, which typically means at least $500 million,
said the people, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  Default Swaps Fall  A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk fell for a
second day, reaching the lowest level in three weeks. The Markit
CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreased 5.3 basis points to a mid-price of
129.3 basis points as of 11:47 a.m. in  New York , according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd. That’s the lowest since
Sept. 20.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Yields on global investment-grade corporate bonds have
climbed to 4.208 percent from 3.643 percent on July 31, while
junk debt worldwide has expanded to 10.029 percent from 7.664
percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The
yield on the overall index is 5.053 percent.  ‘Sovereign Stress’  Bond yields are rising as the sovereign-debt crisis poses
threats to the financial system. “Sovereign stress” has moved
from Europe’s smaller economies to some of its larger countries,
Trichet warned lawmakers in Brussels yesterday.  “The sell-off in credit products has principally been
driven by uncertainty surrounding Europe,” said  Adrian Miller ,
a New York-based fixed-income strategist at Miller Tabak Robert
Securities LLC. “If they can actually put together a
coordinated recapitalization, that will take a lot of the
anxiety out of the market as it relates to bank liquidity.”  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global
growth last month. The world economy will expand 4 percent this
year and next, the IMF said Sept. 20, compared with June
forecasts of 4.3 percent in 2011 and of 4.5 percent in 2012. The
U.S. growth projection for 2011 was lowered to 1.5 percent from
2.5 percent in June.  Chances of Recession  The chance of a U.S. recession has risen to 40 percent from
about one third in August, according to JPMorgan economists. S&P
500 Index earnings, excluding financial companies, are forecast
to have increased 14 percent for the third quarter, the smallest
gain since the end of 2009, analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Sales of  junk bonds  in the U.S. have stalled, with the debt
declining 7.5 percent through yesterday from the end of July,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. There were no
high-yield offerings last week and issuance of the debt has
fallen short of the 2011 average for 10 consecutive periods,
Bloomberg data show.  “For most high-yield issuers the market remains firmly
closed as it’s been far too volatile for them to attempt
deals,” said Mark Olson, a high-yield desk strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc in  London .  The jobless rate and falling home prices are driving
investors to dump riskier assets said  Mirko Mikelic , a senior
 money manager  at Fifth Third Asset Management, who helps oversee
$13 billion of fixed-income assets in  Grand Rapids ,  Michigan .  Unemployment in the U.S. has held at or above 9 percent
every month except two since May 2009, including a reading of
9.1 percent in September, Labor Department data show. The S&P
Case-Shiller index of home values in 20 U.S. cities decreased
4.1 percent in July from a year earlier.  Along with the European crisis, “these macro events are
kind of like an anaconda slowly squeezing the market,” Mikelic
said. “We see these kinds of stresses as slowly taking the
oxygen away from these firms that need wholesale funding.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  