-- 
Kaiser Wilhelm’s Naval Base Becomes Weapon in Giant-Container War: Freight

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-10-13T15:49:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/kaiser-wilhelm-s-naval-base-becomes-weapon-in-giant-container-war-freight.html
Germany ’s chief naval base during
two world wars will be transformed into its only  deepwater port 
as part of a 950 million-euro ($1.3 billion) plan to stop a new
generation of container “superships” diverting to Rotterdam.  Wilhelmshaven’s  JadeWeserPort  terminal, due to open next
August, will have a depth of 18 meters (60 feet), independent of
the tide, allowing it to handle vessels that measure 430 meters
long, carry 18,000 boxes and need at least 16.5 meters of water.  Rotterdam, Europe’s largest port, is the only harbor in the
region east of  France  that’s deep enough for the new container
giants, with Hamburg and Bremerhaven, the biggest in Germany,
required to dredge channels to accommodate them. Wilhelmshaven’s
location east of the Dutch city may also help win a bigger slice
of transfer traffic from high-growth Baltic and Russian markets.  “Ports that cannot handle the biggest vessels will have
problems,” said Emanuel Schiffer, co-chairman of Eurogate GmbH,
 Europe ’s top independent container-terminal company and operator
of the new site. “If the largest ships cannot go to Germany
they’ll concentrate on Rotterdam, and over a period of time you
will also lose other services, so this is essential for us.”  Too Shallow  More than  150 vessels  with a capacity above 10,000 boxes
will join the global fleet between 2011 and 2014, Bremen-based
Eurogate estimates. Most colossal will be 20 ordered by A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S, the leading container line, each 30 percent
bigger than the largest afloat today. Maersk has options for 10
more of the same size, valuing the total purchase at $4 billion.  The maximum draft for ships using Hamburg, Germany’s No. 1
container port and the third-largest in Europe, is 14.5 meters,
which may be increased by 1 meter if the River Elbe is deepened
-- still too shallow to handle the largest vessels at full load.
Antwerp in  Belgium , the regional No. 2, has a  depth  of 15.56
meters upstream and 14.8 meters downstream, which dredging could
boost to no more than 15 meters, according to its website.  Hamburger Hafen und Logistik AG (HHFA)  handles two-thirds of boxes
that go via Hamburg, while operators at  Antwerp  include  DP World
Ltd. (DPW)  of Dubai and Hong Kong-listed  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199)  Li Ka- shing’s Singapore-based Hutchison Port Holdings Trust runs three
Rotterdam sites through its  Europe Container Terminals  unit.  Le Havre , at the mouth of France’s Seine River, is
currently the Dutch port’s only true deep-water rival in the so-
called North European Range, at 17 meters deep.  High Seas Fleet  JadeWeserPort will feature a 1.7-kilometer quay able to
accommodate four large  container ships  and cover an area the
size of 500 football pitches. The terminal will have an initial
capacity of 2.7 million standard boxes a year, and that could
later double, making it Europe’s fourth-biggest container port.  Established as a naval base in 1869 by Wilhelm I of
Prussia, Wilhelmshaven owes its status as Germany’s only natural
deepwater harbor to its position on the Jade Bight, a bay on the
 North Sea . The departure point for the High Seas Fleet before
the Battle of Jutland in World War I, the town of 80,000 people
also built the  Tirpitz , Europe’s biggest battleship, and today
ranks as Germany’s largest naval base, second-largest army base
and No. 1 oil port, its  municipal website  says.  JadeWeserPort’s position means that the distance from the
open sea -- 43 kilometers -- is less than for most other
container terminals in the region. Hamburg lies 110 kilometers
from the ocean, while Antwerp is sited 80 kilometers up the
Schelde River, extending transit times to shipping lanes.  Coastal Pull  Wilhelmshaven’s location 300 kilometers nearer the  Baltic
Sea  than  Rotterdam  and 430 kilometers closer than Antwerp may
also help win custom from companies that carry cargo onwards to
the region on smaller ships, such as Marseille-based CMA CGM SA
-- the world’s third-largest container line --  Rederi AB
TransAtlantic (RABTB)  of  Stockholm  and Montagu Private Equity LLP’s
Unifeeder A/S, said ING Groep NV economist Rico Luman.  “The harbor’s main advantage is its position on the
coast,” Luman said from Amsterdam. “While shipping companies
in general will get an extra choice of where to drop off their
containers, shippers to Scandinavia, the Baltics and  Russia  are
most likely to benefit. Rotterdam has regained market share in
those markets in recent years and this will probably now come
under pressure.”  Asian Roadshow  Competition will intensify amid looming overcapacity among
container shippers and at terminals as economies slow, he said.  While Wilhelmshaven has a prominent place in German naval
history, it’s less well known as a trading hub, and Eurogate has
sought to publicize the port via an Asian “roadshow,” lobbying
shipping lines, logistics companies and politicians in nine
cities in countries including  China ,  Japan ,  Korea  and  Taiwan .  Germany is increasingly reliant on Asian exports, the bulk
of which, worth 71 billion euros in 2009, are moved by sea. That
flow from companies such as  Siemens AG (SIE)  is buoying GDP that grew
only 0.1 percent in the second quarter as concern about the euro
crisis and a global slump dulled demand at home.  Germany’s export-driven  economy  has turned its harbors into
major employers, with at least 450,000 jobs linked to Hamburg
and the two Bremen ports, they estimate. JadeWeserPort plans to
employ 1,000 people in the port and 1,000 in a logistics zone.  Eurogate’s Schiffer said JadeWeserPort won’t strip trade
from Germany’s existing terminals, where the company also has
operations, given an anticipated jump in overall cargo volumes,
with the enhanced deepwater capacity actually more likely to
safeguard industrial operations and services currently
concentrated within the 70-kilometer radius that encompasses
Hamburg, Bremen, Bremerhaven and Wilhelmshaven.  “It’s not a question of us taking something away,”
Schiffer said. “It’s about maintaining our position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net 
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  