-- 
Katy Perry Whirls, Tate Film Show, Frank Stella: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-10-12T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/katy-perry-whirls-tate-s-film-oyster-feast-frank-stella-london-weekend.html
Katy Perry’s worldwide tour returns
to the U.K. this weekend for her biggest shows in  London ,
featuring dancing gingerbread men, rah-rah skirts, giant
lollipops and constant jokes between the pop hits.  Perry, the wife of comedian  Russell Brand , will be at the
O2 Friday and Saturday to reel through catchy, suggestive songs
such as “I Kissed a Girl” and “Peacock.”  O2, Peninsula Sq., SE10 0DX. Information: +44-20-8463-2000,
 http://www.theo2.co.uk ,  http://www.katyperry.com/   Saturday  The  Frieze  art fair --  Europe ’s biggest commercial showcase
for living artists -- runs through the weekend, testing
collectors’ nerve at a time when world markets are taking a
drubbing.  Some $350 million worth of art is on sale at the fair in
Regent’s Park. Don’t miss the 500,000 euro ($690,000) yacht that
will cost you 125,000 euros more if you buy it at Frieze: Like
Marcel Duchamp’s urinal, it will become a signed readymade by
artist Christian Jankowski, renamed “Speedboat Christian” with a
signed certificate.  Hix Restaurant and Champagne Bar is the place to eat at
Frieze. Chef Mark Hix is friends with many British artists, and
his regular spot on the fair’s grounds -- staffed by a team from
his London venues -- is a celebrity hangout. Information:
 http://bit.ly/9zB1X6  or +44-77-0789-3217.  London galleries are rolling out top talent during Frieze
week. Haunch of Venison has a career mini-survey of  Frank Stella . Information:  http://www.haunchofvenison.com .  Across the river in Bermondsey -- and worth the trek -- is
 White Cube ’s giant new space, in a handsomely redesigned former
data-storage warehouse. The inaugural show, inspired by natural
sculptures (“scholar’s rocks”) owned by  Damien Hirst , includes a
Hirst pill cabinet. Information:  http://www.whitecube.com .  Saturday Night  A young Protestant girl named Hannah is soon to be wedded
to a rich English peer. Then she proclaims she’s hearing voices.  Sound like a horror movie? It’s “The Veil,” a spooky new
production at the  National Theatre . Hannah is recruited as a
medium by an ex-priest. Later, gunshots are heard offstage.  “The Veil” gets help from a fun cast and a beautiful
period-living-room set.  Information:  http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or
+44-20-7452-3000.  Sunday  Every year, an artist is asked to fill  Tate Modern ’s
monumental Turbine Hall with a tailor-made work. Responses have
included a crack in the concrete and a black hole.  Now, British artist Tacita Dean has come up with “FILM,” a
looping, 11-minute projection that pays tribute to the dying art
of pre-digital moviemaking. Beamed on a screen 13 meters (42
feet) tall, it was shot vertically by tilting a Cinemascope
lens.  “FILM” is a poetic piece to ponder, though it would be
better served in a smaller space. Information:
 http://www.tate.org.uk/modern  or +44-20-7887-8888.  Wright Brothers Oyster & Porter House, in Borough Market,
is a short walk from Tate Modern. It’s an informal place for
first-class seafood, and supplies some of London smartest
restaurants. There’s a selection of six types of oyster, plus
options such as  New Orleans  -- deep-fried, with tartar sauce.
Information:  http://bit.ly/qehbhG  or +44-20-7403-9554.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London on  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 