-- 
Kazakhstan’s Central Bank Keeps Refinancing Rate at 7.5%

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-10-12T15:26:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/kazakh-central-bank-keeps-refinancing-rate-at-7-5-from-oct-1.html
Kazakhstan  left its main refinancing
rate unchanged as price pressures dissipate, bringing inflation
closer to the central bank’s target range.  The National Bank of Kazakhstan left the benchmark rate at
7.5 percent, effective Oct. 1, the Almaty-based regulator said
in an e-mailed statement today. Inflation decelerated to a
three-month low of 8.7 percent last month from a year earlier,
compared with 9 percent in August.  The biggest energy producer in central  Asia  has kept
borrowing costs unchanged since March, when it raised rates for
the first time in 17 months to cap price growth. The central
bank won’t revise its 2011 target range of 6 percent to 8
percent after the “lower-than-expected” inflation level in
September, Chairman Grigori Marchenko told reporters in Almaty
today. Consumer-price growth has so far breached the target
range every month this year.  “The National Bank is likely to concentrate its efforts on
stimulating credit,” BNP Paribas SA economists led by  Julia Tsepliaeva  in Moscow said in an e-mailed report today. “We do
not expect any change in rates for the next 9 to 12 months.”  The tenge lost 1 percent last month against the dollar for
its biggest monthly drop since February 2009 and traded little
changed today at 147.97 per dollar, Bloomberg data show.  The authorities would consider devaluing the tenge if the
Russian ruble depreciates to 40 per U.S. currency, Marchenko
said today. The ruble was 1.4 percent stronger at 31.1125 per
dollar at the 7 p.m. close in Moscow.  Kazakhstan, a member of a customs union with Russia and
Belarus, plans to enter a common economic space with its two
trade partners next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  