-- 
Kenya, East Africa Nations to Coordinate Monetary Policy

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-10-12T15:54:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/kenya-east-africa-nations-to-coordinate-monetary-policy-1-.html
Central bank governors from  Kenya ,
Uganda and other members of the five-nation  East African
Community  agreed to coordinate their actions to tighten  monetary
policy  and limit volatility in their currencies.  Policy makers also plan to work together to curb “currency
speculation activities,” according to an e-mailed statement
from the governors. Kenya’s Njuguna Ndung’u, Uganda’s Emmanuel
Tumusiime-Mutebile, Benno Ndulu of Tanzania and Rwanda’s Claver
Gatete met in Kenya’s capital, Nairobi, today. Gaspard
Sindayigaya, Burundi’s central bank governor, the fifth EAC
member, was also consulted, it said.  Surging food and fuel prices have pushed up inflation in
the region, which is suffering from the worst drought in six
decades, giving central banks reason to raise key lending rates.
The central banks of Kenya and  Uganda  increased their benchmark
 interest rates  by 4 percentage points each to a record last week
to help bolster their currencies, which have lost a fifth of
their value this year.  “The region is facing very high inflation originating
primarily from high food and fuel prices but also from demand
pressures,” according to the statement. “The governors also
observed that the region is facing pressures on the currencies
to weaken and exchange rate volatility.”  Rwanda Rates  Inflation in Kenya, East Africa’s biggest economy,
accelerated to 17.3 percent in September, more than triple the
government’s 5 percent target, while in Uganda the rate jumped
the highest in 18 years at 28.3 percent.  Tanzania ’s shilling has
weakened 13 percent against the dollar this year, while
inflation surged to a 15-month peak of 14.1 percent in August.  Rwanda’s central bank raised its benchmark interest rate by
half a percentage point to 6.5 percent on Oct. 7, the first
increase in almost three years.  Today’s statement may indicate policy makers are ready to
take stronger action to tame inflation, Yvonne Mhango, an
economist with  Renaissance Capital  in Johannesburg, said in an
e-mail.  “Expect further tightening in the region on the back of
this statement until inflation shows signs of abating, which we
expect from the first quarter of 2012, and until the exchange
volatility subsides,” Mhango said.  The EAC may adopt a protocol next year to create a monetary
union to ease fiscal and monetary volatility in the region,
Secretary-General Richard Sezibera said on Sept. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  