-- 
Kleiner Perkins Goes After Twitter-Like Startups in Content Push

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-10-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/kleiner-perkins-pursues-twitter-like-startups-to-capitalize-on-web-content.html
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers 
will invest in two mobile startups in the next week that turn
users of their applications and services into contributors, said
 Matt Murphy , a partner at the venture firm.  One of the investments may be announced today and the other
in a week, said Murphy, who didn’t disclose the names of the
companies.  Kleiner, which has stakes in Twitter Inc. and Groupon Inc.,
is ramping up investments in what it calls local crowdsourced
content and commerce, Murphy said in an interview. Users of
these applications may contribute video, services or coupons to
consumers nearby. The idea is to replicate the success of sites
like Twitter, where people share article links and short
statements, in an array of mobile apps.  “We are getting to a stage in mobile where people are
willing to do more than just consume, they are interested in
being content creators,” Murphy said. “It’s one of the biggest
trends we are seeing in mobile. It really unlocks the potential
of mobile. People can help make experiences more interesting.”  As part of this trend, consumers will increasingly interact
with merchants through applications or services by sharing an
image or sending a text message, Murphy said.  For example,  Uber  is a service that lets users request car
service via text message or a mobile app. Uber, which is not a
Kleiner investment, sends the request to the nearest driver and
sends the customer an estimated arrival time. Uber puts the
crowd of professional drivers and potential customers together,
and lets them interact.  “It will be integral to many, many applications,” Murphy
said.  The startups can make money by taking a cut of the offers,
or through advertising revenue, Murphy said. Ads served to apps
to which users contribute content may command higher rates, he
said.  “Because the user-generated contribution is so valuable,
you can see higher engagement rates,” Murphy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  