-- 
Kodak Said to Face Pressure From Bondholders on Patent Sale

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 
2011-10-12T20:33:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/kodak-said-to-face-pressure-from-bondholders-on-sale-of-patents.html
Avenue Capital Group and  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) ’s GSO Capital Partners LP unit are among investors that
own debt in  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  and are seeking to profit from a
potential sale of its digital-imaging patents, said people with
knowledge of the matter.  The creditors hold second-lien debt backed by Kodak’s
patent portfolio and want the company to use cash from an asset
sale to pay bondholders before pouring proceeds back into money-
losing operations, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the talks are private.  Fidelity Investments  and P.
Schoenfeld Asset Management LP also hold Kodak second-lien debt,
the people said. The stock fell 12 percent today.  Some bondholders have met with bankruptcy lawyers and
restructuring advisers during the past two weeks to study
forming a committee that would help ensure they are paid, said
these people. Rochester, New York-based Kodak, which announced a
sale process for its patents in July, may fetch about $3 billion
for the portfolio, investment bank MDB Capital Group estimates.
The company has also weighed options including bankruptcy as its
losses and debt load create obstacles to a sale of the assets,
people familiar with the matter said last month.  “Bondholders want the rights to the actual cash as opposed
to trusting management to figure out how to monetize the assets
and appropriately utilize the cash,” said  Shannon Cross , an
analyst at Cross Research in Livingston,  New Jersey . “What
they’re saying here is, we don’t trust management to utilize our
cash wisely so that we will actually get paid back some day.”  Debt Discussions  Gerard Meuchner, a spokesman for Kodak, said it is
premature to discuss the use of patent proceeds before a sale is
concluded. He confirmed Kodak’s Sept. 30 statement that the
company has “no intention” of filing for bankruptcy.  No second-lien creditors committee has been formed as of
yet and the group has not spoken with the company about their
concerns, said the people. Creating an ad hoc committee often
signals creditors are concerned about a default and want to
collectively negotiate with the company.  Separately, “a significant amount” of holders of Kodak’s
unsecured debt have talked with Andrews Kurth LLP in  New York  to
explore their options and rights, said Paul Silverstein, co-
chair of the law firm’s bankruptcy and restructuring practice.  Spokesmen for Fidelity, Avenue, P. Schoenfeld and GSO
declined to comment. Fidelity holds both unsecured and second-
lien debt in Kodak, people said.  ‘Cash Lifeline’  Bondholders will make a decision about forming a committee
after Nov. 3, when Kodak announces its third-quarter results,
said one person. The creditors are seeking more information
about Kodak’s cash position, its European pension plans and
whether vendors are tightening payment terms, one person said.
Kodak has lost money for three straight years as it tries to
transform into a digital printing and imaging company.  Creditors holding the second-lien debt backed by the
patents may try to prevent any sale in order to keep Kodak from
using the proceeds as a “cash lifeline” that would support the
rest of the company, Cross at Cross Research said.  Some potential bidders for the patents are wary of
proceeding because a purchase may amount to a so-called
fraudulent transfer if Kodak is insolvent, said the people.
Kodak confirmed Sept. 30 it hired  Jones Day  to advise it on
options.  Talks With Advisers  “The patent sale will probably fetch a much better price
in  bankruptcy court  and that would therefore be a more favorable
outcome for much of the estate,” said Amer Tiwana, an analyst
at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “If they
were to sell the patents outside of bankruptcy, then there will
be questions over fraudulent transfer and a potential for
litigation from bondholders.”  Financial advisers from Moelis & Co.,  Houlihan Lokey , and
Rothschild have spoken with creditors about their options, the
people said. Kodak’s second-lien debtholders have spoken with
lawyers at firms including Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP,
Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP, Kirkland & Ellis LLP and Akin
Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, the people said.  Last week about 10 creditors holding $200 million of
second-lien debt held a call with Kramer Levin to hear the
firm’s advice on Kodak, said two of the people. Kramer later
sent out engagement letters to creditors, trying to secure
enough support to form a committee, the people said.  Cash Crunch  In recent days, Kramer Levin has told advisers it has
spoken to about 20 creditors holding about $350 million of
second-lien debt, two people said. There is about $750 million
in second-lien debt.  A spokeswoman for Kramer Levin declined to comment.  Debt held by these second-lien creditors is backed by
assets including the patent portfolio, according to the people,
which could allow creditors to either block the sale or to sue
for some of the proceeds.  “This may come to a head soon as potential buyers are
hesitant to do anything outside of bankruptcy which could lead
to a cash crunch,” said CRT’s Tiwana. “That would be the
catalyst we’re all waiting for. If the patent sale is in doubt
and other asset sales aren’t happening, then the company faces a
cash crunch and it’s only a matter of time until we see Kodak
file.”  Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez, who took the helm in
2005, has sharpened Kodak’s focus on the printing business to
help revive revenue. Perez announced plans in July to explore
options for the portfolio of more than 1,100 patents, including
some for processing, editing and storing images.  Patent Options  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  is advising Kodak on options for the patent
portfolio. Lazard also helped Nortel Networks Corp. sell about
6,000 patents and applications to a group that included  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  for $4.5 billion in June.  Kodak’s U.S. and international pension plans were
underfunded by a combined $1.21 billion at the end of 2010, up
from $1.11 billion a year earlier, according to the company’s
annual securities filing. That amount was part of Kodak’s $2.66
billion in liabilities for pensions and benefits for retirees.  Kodak had $957 million in cash as of June 30. About a third
of Kodak’s cash was in the U.S. at the end of 2010 with the rest
of it in overseas accounts, according to Meuchner, the Kodak
spokesman.  ‘Ongoing Weakness’  The debt is rated CCC by Standard & Poor’s and Caa2 by
Moody’s Investors Service. The ratings are the eighth levels
below investment grade at each firm. Moody’s cut Kodak’s bond
ratings Sept. 27 and indicated further reductions may follow,
citing “ongoing weakness” in the company’s operations. Kodak,
which tapped a  credit line  last month, has seen its market value
sink by more than $30 billion from its 1997 peak.  Kodak’s $500 million of 9.75 percent notes due March 2018
fell 0.75 cent yesterday to 72.5 cents on the dollar to yield 17
percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The debt has
declined from this year’s high of 102 cents on March 1.  The stock has plunged 77 percent this year. It dropped 17
cents to $1.24 as of 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  