-- 
Naked Mole Rat Genome Map May Provide Clues to Understanding Cancer, Aging

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-10-12T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/naked-mole-rat-genome-map-may-aid-in-cancer-aging-research.html
The  naked mole rat , a hairless
African rodent with a long life-span and resistance to tumors,
may hold clues to countering cancer and age-related ailments in
people, said scientists who have mapped the creature’s  genome .  A first analysis of the naked mole rat’s genome has already
revealed insights into its longevity, and that it split from its
mice and rat cousins about 73 million years ago, according to
the research published today in the journal  Nature.   The naked mole rat lives 10 times longer than mice, or 
more than 30 years. While 95 percent of mice die from cancer, 
the naked mole rat is impervious to the disease, said 
Andrei Seluanov, a researcher at the University of Rochester. 
These traits offer scientists new opportunities to understand 
certain biological processes, the researchers wrote.  “It’s an unusual animal with several very interesting
features: a long lifespan, resistance to cancer, and its social
structure,” said study author Vadim Gladyshev, a Harvard
Medical School professor and the director of redox medicine at
Brigham & Women’s Hospital in  Boston . “We want to compare the
naked mole rat with other mammals to find more general themes
and traits that may be consistent with a long lifespan.”  Because 93 percent of mouse genes are similar to naked mole
rat genes, the sequenced genome may enable scientists to
transfer naked mole rat genes into mice, to see where the cancer
benefits are, said Seluanov, who wasn’t affiliated with the
study, in a telephone interview.  Alzheimer’s Clue  When the scientists sequenced brain samples from a newborn,
a 4-year-old and a 20-year-old naked mole rat, they found few
variations in activation based on age. That’s unusual in
mammals; humans underexpress 33 genes and overexpress 21 when
they age.  One gene that’s muted in the human brain and amplified in
the naked mole rat’s brain influenced the clumping of beta
amyloid, the characteristic protein in Alzheimer’s disease.
Another made it difficult for cells to proliferate, limiting
cancer risk in the rodents. The different activation patterns
may explain the animal’s unusual longevity, the scientists
wrote.  The journal also published a paper on the genetic
sequencing and comparative analysis of 29 other mammalian
genomes, including humans, chimpanzees, mice and dogs. About 4
percent of the human genome consists of sequences preserved
throughout these animals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 