-- 
National Amusements Boycotts Universal’s ‘Tower Heist’ Over Pay TV Plans

-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 
2011-10-12T15:45:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/national-amusements-boycotts-universal-s-tower-heist-over-pay-tv-plans.html
National Amusements  Inc., the cinema
chain controlled by Sumner Redstone, joined other exhibitors in
boycotting Universal Pictures’ “Tower Heist” because of the
studio’s plan to offer the movie early on pay TV.  “Under Universal’s current plans for the premium video-on-
demand release of ‘Tower Heist,’ National Amusements has decided
not to play this film,” the Norwood, Massachusetts-based
exhibitor, which has more than 950 screens in theaters including
Showcase, said today in a statement.  The studio’s plan to test early pay-TV sales of the movie
in two markets, Atlanta and Portland, Oregon, has sparked
protests from exhibitors concerned they will lose ticket sales.
Operators representing more than 12 percent of the estimated
39,000 U.S. screens have announced boycotts of the film,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK) , the third largest U.S. theater
chain with 3,825 screens, said last week it won’t show the
movie.  Universal Pictures, controlled by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , announced
plans on Oct. 5 to offer “Tower Heist,” featuring Ben Stiller
and Eddie Murphy, on pay TV for $59.99, three weeks after its
debut in cinemas. The film is scheduled to open Nov. 4.  Closely held National Amusements is part of Redstone family
holdings that include controlling interests in Viacom Inc.,
owner of Paramount Pictures, and  CBS Corp. (CBS)   Comcast, based in Philadelphia, is the largest U.S. cable-
TV service, and acquired control of NBC Universal, parent of
Universal Studios, in 2009.  Comcast rose 2.4 percent to $23.54 at 11:23 a.m. New York
time. The stock had gained 4.6 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  