-- 
National Bank of Kuwait Posts Decline in Quarterly Profit

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-10-12T10:38:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/national-bank-of-kuwait-quarterly-net-falls-to-79-million-dinars.html
National Bank of Kuwait (NBK)  SAK, the
country’s biggest bank, said third-quarter profit fell amid a
weak operating environment.  Net income dropped to 78.9 million dinars ($286 million),
or 20 fils a share, from 79.3 million dinars, or 21 fils, a year
earlier, the bank said in a statement to the Kuwait Stock
Exchange today.  “We have tightened our levels of control and risk
management in light of the ongoing operating challenges in the
Arab world,” Chief Executive Officer Ibrahim Dabdoub said in an
e-mailed statement. “We remain optimistic about our regional
expansion strategy in the long run.”  The global credit crisis weakened lending and investment
banking in the  Middle East , pushing up provisions for loan
defaults and led to a decline in the value of banks’
investments. Kuwait was forced to guarantee all deposits at
local banks in 2008 after  Gulf Bank KSC (GBK)  lost $1.3 billion in
derivatives trading and Global Investment House defaulted on
$2.8 billion of debt. In April 2009, the government enacted a
Financial Stability Law to bolster financial institutions.  The non-performing loans to gross loans ratio declined to
1.59 percent for the nine months ended September from 1.61
percent a year earlier, the bank said.  The results were expected because growth in Kuwait is slow,
said Naveed Ahmed, a banking analyst at Kuwait City-based Global
Investment House KSCC. “The actual difference from our
expectations is coming from provisions only, they took lower
provisions,” said Ahmed today in a phone interview. “Net
interest income increased to the highest in the last 10
quarters.”  NBK shares have lost 16 percent this year, matching the
decline in  Kuwait ’s benchmark index. The stock rose 1.9 percent
to 1,100 fils at the close in Kuwait today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  