-- 
NBA, Players Union Will Meet With Federal Mediator Next Week in New York

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-13T04:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/nba-union-to-meet-with-federal-mediator-on-oct-17-players-leader-says.html
National Basketball Association
officials and players union representatives will meet with a
federal mediator in  New York  beginning Oct. 18 in an attempt to
end a three-month lockout.  George H. Cohen, director of the  Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service , said yesterday in a news release that he
has held informal, off-the-record discussions with both sides in
recent months.  “The agency has invited, and the parties have agreed, to
convene further negotiations under my auspices,” Cohen said.  The  National Football League  locked out players in March
after negotiations overseen by Cohen in  Washington  failed to
yield an agreement on how to divide about $9 billion in revenue.
The NFL was able to save its entire season by coming to an
agreement in July.  Cohen helped broker a labor accord for  Major League Soccer 
in 2010.  The NBA on Oct. 10 canceled the first two weeks of the
regular season -- 100 games -- after the two sides were unable
to come to an agreement on a new labor accord. The league locked
the 450 players out on July 1, when the last deal expired. The
season was scheduled to begin on Nov. 1.  Billy Hunter , the  National Basketball Players Association ’s
executive director, said in an interview yesterday on Mike
Francesa’s WFAN radio show in New York that the biggest issues
separating the two sides are how to split basketball-related
income from a league that had what he said was $4.6 billion in
revenue last season; what type of salary cap -- the ceiling on
team payrolls -- to implement, and the length of player
contracts.  NBA Commissioner  David Stern  has said that the league’s 30
teams collectively lost about $300 million last season. Hunter
said a more accurate figure is $150 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 