-- 
New Zealand Stranded Ship Safe From Breakup for Now, Official Says

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-10-13T06:06:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/new-zealand-officials-brace-for-reef-stricken-container-ship-to-break-up.html
 A container ship stranded off New
Zealand’s northeast coast is safe for salvage inspectors and in
no immediate danger of splitting, even as oil and cargo from the
damaged vessel wash ashore, a maritime official said.  “Although it’s creaking and groaning, it’s okay for them
to be operating,” Bruce Anderson, general manager of monitoring
and response at  Maritime New Zealand , said at a televised news
conference today. “The vessel is actually holding together at
this moment.”  Calmer seas allowed a salvage inspection team to re-board
the vessel for a few hours today, after strong winds and high
waves forced them ashore Oct. 11. Cracks appeared in the hull of
Athens-based  Costamare Shipping Co. ’s stricken Rena yesterday,
raising concern the ship may split eight days after it ran
aground in the Bay of Plenty near Tauranga, 100 miles (160
kilometers) southeast of Auckland.  The vessel has probably spilled as much as 350 tons of oil,
and 88 containers are now in the water, with some contents
reaching the shoreline, according to Maritime  New Zealand .  Inspectors today found that pipes and other equipment set
up to pump oil off the ship are largely intact, although some
holds are flooded from the hull fractures, Anderson said.  “If it does separate, it could sit and rest on the reef,”
Anderson said. “The holds are flooded which is okay because
that helps pin the forward section onto the reef.”  Dead Birds  The Rena was carrying 1,368 containers and about 1,700
metric tons of fuel oil, according to maritime officials.  About 50 metric tons of waste has been cleared from 17
kilometers of beach, Maritime New Zealand said in a statement.
Access to beaches in the Tauranga region has been restricted to
those who are part of the spill response, while dead birds are
being found at sea and on the coast.  “To the people of Tauranga, we want to say that we are
deeply sorry for the situation that has arisen and the threat
you are now facing from  fuel oil  from the vessel washing up on
the beaches in your beautiful part of the world,” Diamantis
Manos, managing director of Costamare Shipping, said in an e-
mailed video statement.  “It is our ship that went aground and we apologize without
hesitation for what has happened,” Manos said, adding that the
company will cooperate with all investigations.  The ship’s master and the second officer in charge of the
navigational watch have both been charged under the Maritime Act
for operating a vessel in a manner causing unnecessary danger or
risk, the maritime agency said in a  statement .  Maximum Penalty  The master appeared in court yesterday and surrendered his
passport. The second officer appeared today, the agency said.
The charge carries a maximum penalty of NZ$10,000 ($7,900) or 12
months’ imprisonment, it said.  “Whoever is responsible for this has to be held to
account,” Prime Minister John Key told reporters at a televised
news conference yesterday. “We’re entitled to have answers.”  New Zealand officials interviewed crew on duty during the
accident and seized recording and navigation equipment to help
determine how the vessel settled on the Astrolabe Reef, after
according to a statement on the  Transport Accident Investigation
Commission’s website . The inquiry’s final analysis may not be
ready until the middle of 2012, the statement said.  The cost of the disaster may exceed the maximum under the
shipowner’s insurance, Key told  Radio New Zealand  today. The
government will pick up any extra costs and will explore legal
options to get more compensation, he said.  New Routes  Port of Tauranga Ltd. (POT) , the nation’s largest export port,
will suspend marine operations for 10 hours from 9 p.m. local
time after containers and debris were found in shipping
channels, the company said in an e-mailed statement. Approaching
and departing vessels are advised to keep their own lookout and
are being given new routes through the exclusion zone around the
stricken ship.  Port of Tauranga shares rose 2.5 percent to NZ$9.47 at
close of trading in Wellington, paring their decline since Oct.
5 to 3.4 percent.  New Zealand’s  MetService  forecasts less wind for the Bay of
Plenty coastal region today, with sea conditions changing to
moderate from rough, visibility improving and showers clearing.  Six vessels have also been deployed to catch debris
floating in the water, Maritime New Zealand said. The cargo on
the 32-year-old, Liberian-flagged Rena includes four containers
of ferrosilicon, a solid substance that can be hazardous when in
contact with water and can emit hydrogen, according to Maritime
New Zealand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Malcolm Scott at   mscott23@bloomberg.net  