-- 
Climate Change Shows No Barrier Reef Is an Island: Iain McCalman

-- B y   I a i n   M c C a l m a n
-- 
2011-10-12T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/no-barrier-reef-is-an-island-as-climate-warms-commentary-by-iain-mccalman.html
One of the saddest byproducts of
 Australia ’s current political squabbling over  climate change  is
the way the Great Barrier Reef, the world’s largest living
organism, has become caught in the crossfire. It wasn’t always
so.  In 2001, I sailed on a replica of James Cook’s ship,
Endeavour, under simulated 18th-century conditions through a
sizable chunk of the reef’s more than 2,000-kilometer (1,243-
mile) length. We were re-enacting for  television  the most
testing stretches of Cook’s first voyage to Australia in 1770.  He had likened the experience to being trapped in an
“insane labyrinth,” where death by shipwreck and drowning, or
by starvation and native spears seemed inevitable. We, of
course, had no such fears. Since Cook’s time, the harsh
connotations of this “wilderness” have changed irrevocably.
Once a hell, it is now a A$3 billion ($2.9 billion) tourist
mecca, marine park, ecological wonder, and wealthy urban and
agricultural region.  Our 40-volunteer crew was a mixed lot in every way. There
were Australians, Americans, Britons and New Zealanders; men and
women; young and old; conservationists and developers;
scientists and artists. We argued often, yet were always united
by our awe of the environment around us.  The warm coral-filled waters of the Barrier Reef lagoon,
studded with sandy cays and wooded volcanic islands, seemed
unimaginably beautiful and precious. The Australians on board --
black and white -- found the reef a source of intense collective
identity and pride, and fellow shipmates of all nationalities
shared our admiration of this  World Heritage Marine Park 
intended for the benefit of all.  Save the Reef  We were beneficiaries of one of the fiercest and most
protracted popular struggles of recent Australian history, the
Save the Reef campaign of the late 1960s and ‘70s.  Over this period, a populist Queensland premier, Joh
Bjelke-Petersen, had challenged successive federal governments
and conservationist bodies by his aggressive economic
development of the reef. He sanctioned the crushing of reef
corals for agricultural fertilizer, granted sweeping foreign
rights for oil and mineral exploitation, and encouraged the
building of environmentally reckless tourist resorts.  The ensuing political struggle was led by the rare
combination of a poet, Judith Wright; an artist, John Busst; and
a scientist, Len Webb. Together they managed to mobilize
citizens of all political stripes. They also persuaded
successive Liberal and Labor governments to combine in the cause
of reef protection and to challenge the Queensland premier in
the  High Court  on the issue of federal versus state
jurisdiction.  The culmination of the campaign saw the declaration of the
Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area in October 1981. It
instantiated a statutory compromise of shared federal and state
custodianship over an area of mixed economic exploitation and
wildlife conservation that was roughly the size of the U.K. and
Ireland: all of it under the day-to-day  governance  of the Great
Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. Despite periodic strains
between conflicting interests within the authority’s
jurisdiction, few would dispute that it has nurtured one of the
best protected and managed marine parks in the world.  Just 20 years later, there were growing signs, however,
that larger environmental forces could disinherit us all. In
2001, a biologist showed some of us from the Endeavour evidence
of a new outbreak of mass coral bleaching comparable to the
first recorded incidence in 1997-98.  Up to that time, scientific concern about the Barrier Reef
had centered on the damage being inflicted by voracious coral-
eating crown-of-thorns starfish, but that problem, while still
unsolved, has paled beside the scale of destruction of these
bleaching events.  El Nino’s Effect  During El Nino weather cycles, when the temperature in the
Pacific is already unusually high, seawater heated further by
greenhouse-gas-induced global warming is being pulsed onto the
delicate reef-growing corals. It’s a few degrees hotter than the
usual optimum of 27 degrees Celsius (81 degrees Fahrenheit) for
the single-celled algae, which live in the corals’ tissues and
provide their color and food through photosynthesis with
sunlight. So the algae begin producing toxic levels of oxygen.
The corals must then expel their algae or die. Stark white
skeletons remain. Although recovery is possible when water
temperatures return to normal, the frequency and intensity of
outbreaks are hampering this.  More recently, scientists have detected a still graver
threat to the reef. John Veron, a former chief scientist of the
Australian Institute of Marine Science and a winner of the Royal
Society’s Darwin Medal, has written an ominously titled  book ,
“A Reef in Time: The Great Barrier Reef From Beginning to
End,” which suggests that long-term destructive forces are
already under way.  Again, the culprit is  greenhouse gases , now pervading the
atmosphere at unprecedented rates and levels. Already the
world’s oceans, normally buffers to carbon dioxide, are losing
their  capacity  to absorb and chemically balance the gas.
Eventually -- possibly within 50 years -- they will acidify.
Seawater will then work to neutralize this acidic effect by
dissolving numerous forms of calcium carbonate prevalent in the
marine environment, like a giant antacid.  Among the first organisms to be affected will be reef
corals. Their calcium or aragonite skeletons will cease growing
or become too brittle to resist the eroding effects of waves.
Corals, of course, aren’t the only marine organisms implicated:
Krill, a crucial fabric of the marine food web, are also under
threat. We could ultimately face something like the K-T mass
extinctions of 65 million years ago, which put an end to coral
reefs and related marine organisms for millions of years.  If Veron is right, and many scientists seem to think he is,
then the Great Barrier Reef could die within a generation or
two. If we can’t agree to commit to the reduction of greenhouses
gases needed -- and there is every sign we can’t -- then perhaps
we should be thinking about how to adapt to this tremendous
change? If the peoples of the Amazon must imagine living without
their rainforest, should we Australians be learning to live
without our reef?  (Iain McCalman, a professor of history at the  University of
Sydney  and the author of “Darwin’s Armada,” is a Bloomberg
View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Iain McCalman in Sydney at  iain.mccalman@arts.usyd.edu.au .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Stacey Shick at   sshick@bloomberg.net . 