-- 
No Decision Made to Charge Captured Pirates, NATO Says

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-10-12T11:02:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/no-decision-made-to-charge-captured-pirates-nato-says-correct-.html
Italy has yet to decide whether to
prosecute 11 pirates captured yesterday after they hijacked an
Italian freight ship, according to NATO.  NATO forces detained the pirates on board the Montecristo
after storming the vessel, Commander Geoff Bewley, Northwood,
England-based counter-piracy spokesman for the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization, said by phone. Personnel on an Italian
warship scheduled to rendezvous with the freighter today will
decide if there’s enough evidence to file charges, he said.  Naval forces  have caught and released as many as 1,500
pirates since the beginning of 2010 because they didn’t want
their countries to have the responsibility of prosecution, Giles
Noakes, head of security at the Baltic and International
Maritime Council, said last month. Some pirates had been caught
and released up to three times, he said.  “It isn’t a NATO call as to what happens” to the pirates,
Bewley said. The Montecristo was 200 nautical miles (230 miles)
southeast of Oman, and NATO forces freed 23 crew, he said.  Almost 90 percent of pirates are caught and released, Major
General Buster Howes, operation commander for European Union
Naval Force Somalia, told a U.K. government inquiry June 22.
Thirty governments are supporting anti-piracy patrols covering
2.8 million square miles in the  Indian Ocean  and  Gulf of Aden ,
he said.  Attacks on vessels by Somali pirates operating in the Gulf
of Aden and the Indian Ocean, through which 12 percent of the
world’s oil is carried, rose to a record in the first half of
2011, according to the  International Maritime Organization , the
 United Nations ’ shipping agency.  Pirates operating in an area as large as  Europe  attacked
187 vessels and hijacked 22 in the period, its figures show.
Piracy costs the global economy an estimated $7 billion to $12
billion a year, the IMO estimates.  The council represents about 65 percent of the world’s ship
owners, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  