-- 
Norway Banks Can Absorb Credit Crisis Shock, Johnsen Says

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-10-13T06:21:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/norway-banks-form-first-defense-in-credit-crisis-johnsen-says.html
Norway ’s banks are ready to absorb
the first shocks from a potential debt crisis that risks
engulfing Europe, Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said.  “The Norwegian banking sector is stronger today than it
was in 2008 and in that respect they also have a first line of
defense,” he said in an Oct. 11 interview. “One of the impacts
the situation in Europe can have on Norway might be through the
banking sector, so we’re very well aware of that risk.”  Norway, which has a $530 billion sovereign-wealth fund, has
been shielded from the worst of the euro area’s debt crisis as
unemployment holds below 3 percent and the oil and gas industry
helps fuel an economic expansion. This has allowed banks such as
DnB NOR ASA, the country’s biggest, to benefit from lower risk
premiums than the rest of  Europe , the Financial Supervisory
Authority said last month while warning that loan losses may
rise from a “substantial setback” in the global economy.  With banks in better shape than in 2008, the world’s
seventh-largest oil exporter may be able to avoid a rerun of
2009, when the government tapped its oil wealth to set up to two
funds totaling 100 billion kroner ($17.7 billion) to support
banks and bond markets after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
collapse. Lenders have since raised reserves, increased long-
term funding and improved finances, according to the financial
regulator.  “Norwegian banks have sufficient liquidity for the coming
months so there is, as far as we know, no refinancing needed in
the international market,” said Jan Digranes, director of the
banking and capital markets department at Finance Norway, a
banking trade group.  Capital Ratios  DnB NOR, Scandinavia’s second-largest bank, passed  stress
test  by European regulators earlier this year with a capital
ratio of 9 percent under an adverse scenario. The same goes for
Sweden’s biggest lenders -- Nordea Bank AB, Swedbank AB, Svenska
Handelsbanken AB and SEB AB -- which all do business in Norway.  Norway’s central banks said in May that the country’s
banks, including a number of savings banks, had an average Tier
1 capital ratio of 11.8 percent as of December, up from below 10
percent at the start of 2008, after adding capital through
retained earnings and share sales. DnB in 2009, for example,
raised 14 billion kroner in a share sale to boost its capital.  “Being from  Sweden  or Norway doesn’t really matter,” said
Thomas Johansson, an analyst at Carnegie Investment Bank. “The
ultimate backstop we have is strong, very solid state finances.
Even though Norway is a bit stronger than Sweden, Sweden is
still among the absolute best on the planet.”  Concerns over a potential default by Greece and contagion
in other debt-ridden nations have helped push the 46-company
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index down 26
percent this year. DnB has slumped 24 percent and the Norwegian
three-month  interbank rate  has risen to more than 3 percent,
from about 2.6 percent at the start of the year.  Moody’s Downgrade  Moody’s Investors Service this week downgraded Norwegian
lender Storebrand Bank, a unit of insurer Storebrand ASA, citing
concerns related to its franchise strength, profitability and
credit risk concentration, particularly to commercial real
estate. In neighboring  Denmark , three banks have failed so far
this year, buckling under strains from a slump in that country’s
housing market.  Norway’s financial regulator last month recommended
lowering a cap on how much consumers can borrow for homes as it
seeks to prevent credit growth from fanning a property market
bubble. The watchdog is seeking to tighten a market where  home
prices  gained an annual 9.7 percent in September, according to
data from Norway’s Real Estate Brokers Association. Household
borrowing rose an annual 7.2 percent in August, near a 2 1/2-
year high,  Statistics Norway  said.  ‘Systemic Dimension’  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  this
week warned the crisis had reached a “systemic dimension” as
leaders struggle to contain a crisis that has pushed  Greece  to
the brink of default, shaken markets and fueled speculation that
the 17-nation currency might not survive in its current form.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  have vowed to outline a plan this month to
recapitalize banks as investors hesitate to extend short-term
funding on concern they will have to write down holdings of
Greek and other peripheral European debt. European banks need as
much as 200 billion euros of capital, the  International Monetary
Fund  said last week. Franco-Belgian Dexia SA became the first
banking victim of the debt crisis at the core of Europe this
week as its directors moved to dismantle the lender.  Banks in Norway, the only Scandinavian country that isn’t
part of the European Union, have “insignificant” holdings in
Greece and limited investments in Ireland,  Portugal ,  Spain  and
 Italy , the financial regulator said in a June report. The six
largest banks hold less than 1.3 percent of their managed
capital in Greek, Irish, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish assets,
primarily in private companies and banks.  “We are a very keen follower of what is happening in
Europe and of course we are very well aware of that this can
also develop in Norway,” said Johnsen. “The Norwegian banking
sector is strong and they have done a very good job over the
last few years in order to build their own reserves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  