-- 
NYSE Seeks SEC Approval for Plan to Win More Retail Orders

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-10-12T20:35:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/nyse-seeks-approval-to-add-liquidity-providers-for-retail-orders.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  proposed creating a
new class of traders at the New York Stock Exchange that may
help it win more business from firms that handle orders from
individual investors.  The New York-based company  filed  for Securities and
Exchange Commission permission to begin a pilot program for what
it called retail liquidity providers. It would let trading firms
say certain bids and offers are for small investors, so long as
the prices are better than what is publicly available. Quotes
from the firms wouldn’t be visible to everyone.  NYSE Euronext wants more retail orders because they are
usually more profitable for liquidity providers than
transactions from professional investors, said James Angel, a
finance professor at  Georgetown University  in  Washington . The
exchange has lost market share of trading in companies it lists
to 26 percent last month from 82 percent in 2003, data compiled
by Barclays Plc and NYSE Euronext show.  “Retail order flow is the cream of the crop,” Angel said
during an interview today in  Chicago . “Everyone wants to trade
with the dentist from Dayton, not the best and brightest running
a prop trading shop on the Street.”  Knight, Citadel  Most orders from individual investors who trade through
retail brokers are sent to wholesalers, such as  Knight Capital
Group Inc. (KCG)  and Citadel LLC, who pay the brokers for sending them
the transactions. The wholesalers can then execute the orders
internally, instead of going to a public exchange, as long as
they provide prices that match or improve upon levels in the
public markets.  NYSE Euronext’s plan would provide an incentive to retail
brokers to send orders directly to the exchange, which may
dissuade them from selling orders to wholesalers. As more retail
orders come in, the institutional investors who trade on the
exchange would see more retail orders, attracting more business
to NYSE Euronext.  “What we’re trying to do is replicate and complement a lot
of what already exists so we can fit into that ecosystem a lot
better,” Joseph Mecane, executive vice president and chief
administrative officer for U.S. markets at NYSE Euronext, said
in a telephone interview.  NYSE Euronext said quotes for retail orders won’t be
displayed, meaning neither the number of shares an investor is
willing to buy or sell nor the price will be shown. The exchange
will have a special label in its data feed, indicating whether
the orders are requests to buy or sell.  “This is basically a dark pool inside the New York Stock
Exchange,”  Larry Tabb , founder of New York-based financial-
market research and advisory firm Tabb Group LLC, said in a
telephone interview, referring to a type of private venue.
“It’s absolutely a way to compete against the internalization
and drive more order flow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in Chicago at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  