-- 
Obama Administration Subpoenaed by House Panel Over Gun Case

-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 
2011-10-12T16:39:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/obama-administration-subpoenaed-by-house-panel-over-gun-case.html
A U.S. House panel subpoenaed the
Obama administration over a law enforcement program that allowed
illegal U.S. gun purchases in an effort to link the weapons to
Mexican drug cartels.  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican and
chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
said today a subpoena went to Attorney General Eric Holder for
 Justice Department  documents related to the program, called Fast
and Furious.  “Top Justice Department officials, including Attorney
General Holder, know more about Operation Fast and Furious than
they have publicly acknowledged,” Issa said in a statement.  Issa has said Holder provided misleading testimony to
Congress on May 3 about when he first learned of Fast and
Furious, which was overseen by the Justice Department’s Bureau
of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.  The subpoena directs the Justice Department to produce 22
categories of documents, including communications involving
Holder and other top officials at the department, ATF, White
House and U.S. attorney’s office in Arizona.  The Justice Department already has sent thousands of
documents and provided “many officials for interviews and
testimony,” said  Tracy Schmaler , a department spokeswoman, in
an e-mail. “So any notion that the department isn’t working
with the committee is simply wrong.”  ’Truthful and Accurate’  Schmaler also said that a letter sent by Holder to
lawmakers on Oct. 7 provides answers to questions Issa “seems
to be raising publicly.” In that letter, Holder said that his
testimony about the program was “truthful and accurate.”  Representative Elijah Cummings of  Maryland , the oversight
committee’s top Democrat, said the document request is “a gross
abuse of the committee’s authority.”  “Rather than legitimate fact-gathering, this looks more
like a political stunt,” Cummings said in a statement.  Two of about 2,000 guns that ATF allowed to be carried away
were found at the scene of the December 2010 murder of U.S.
Border Patrol agent Brian Terry in  Arizona , according to a
report released in June by Issa and Chuck Grassley of  Iowa , the
top Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee.  The committee subpoena requests FBI documents and
communications related to the investigation into Terry’s death.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  