-- 
Obama Consumer Watchdog Said to Have Known About Bank of America Debit Fee

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-10-12T19:53:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/obama-consumer-watchdog-said-to-have-known-about-bofa-debit-fee.html
The Obama administration’s new
consumer watchdog knew about  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s plan to
impose a $5 monthly debit-card fee at least two weeks before the
firm’s announcement ignited a public firestorm, said people
briefed on the discussions.  The lender met with Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
officials on Sept. 16 to inform them of the fee, Susan Faulkner,
head of consumer banking products, told employees yesterday at a
gathering in  Delaware , said two people who attended. They asked
for anonymity because the event was private. Faulkner said the
regulator didn’t oppose the fee, according to one of the people.  Bank of America set off a backlash last month when it
announced plans to charge some customers for using debit cards,
with President  Barack Obama  among the lead critics. He
reprimanded the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm on Oct. 3,
saying that banks didn’t have an “ inherent right ” to profits
and that the added fees are “exactly why we need somebody whose
sole job it is to prevent this kind of stuff from happening.”  Obama later said that while banks have the right to impose
the fee, it wasn’t fair to consumers.  Regulators “may have been out of touch, like Bank of
America was, about how customers would react to this fee,” said
Gerald Bell, a professor at UNC-Chapel Hill’s Kenan-Flagler
Business School. The question is, “Did they somehow not execute
the president’s strategy, or did they just agree with Bank of
America that this wasn’t anything out of the ordinary?”  Didn’t ‘Bless’ Fee  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets as of
midyear, went ahead with the fee after competitors including
 Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  and  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  imposed similar
charges, David Darnell, the bank’s co-chief operating officer,
said at yesterday’s gathering, according to the people.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau didn’t “bless
this or any other fee,” said Jennifer Howard, a spokeswoman for
the regulator. “That simply isn’t our role. Nor is it our role
to advise banks on whether the public would readily accept a new
fee.”  Faulkner, 49, who reports to Darnell, 58, told the group
she was surprised at how well the meeting with regulators went,
one of the people said. Still, the bank could have done a better
job of informing the public about who will have to pay the fees,
Faulkner told employees.  Who’s Exempt  Clients with at least $20,000, a Bank of America mortgage
or accounts linked to the Merrill Lynch brokerage aren’t
affected. Small-business and military customers are also exempt.
Customers will be charged once a month for making debit-card
purchases, and won’t be penalized if they don’t use the card or
use it only for cash-machine withdrawals.  The banking industry has pointed to Senator  Richard Durbin ,
the Illinois Democrat whose legislation reduced so-called swipe
fees by about half, as the reason for the new fees. Durbin has
said that banks still “profit handsomely” from debit
transactions.  The bank’s internal gathering in Delaware included about
200 employees, the people said.  Tony Allen , a company spokesman,
confirmed the company held a town-hall style meeting yesterday
and declined to elaborate. “Our leaders do a lot of market
visits of this nature across the country,” Allen said.  While rivals including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo
& Co. previously said they were testing ways to recoup revenue
lost because of new U.S. limits on debit transactions, Bank of
America’s Sept. 29 announcement galvanized consumer discontent,
said Bert Ely, a banking consultant in Alexandria, Virginia.  Symbolic Role  “Bank of America has become the symbol of what people
don’t like about financial institutions,” Ely said. “They
misjudged the extent that they personify a lot of what people
don’t like about banks.”  The fee fueled  demonstrations  in  Los Angeles  and prompted a
Washington, D.C., woman to collect  more  than 150,000 petitions
in protest. Representative Brad Miller, a North Carolina
Democrat and member of the Financial Services Committee,
condemned “unrepentant” lenders this month and introduced a
bill that would make it easier to switch banks.  Obama said Oct. 3 that his nascent consumer bureau, created
by the Dodd-Frank Act, could prevent banks from imposing new
fees. He stepped back from those comments in subsequent
interviews.  “The argument they’ve made is, ‘Well, you know what, this
hidden fee was prohibited so we’ll find another fee to make up
for it,’” Obama said on Oct. 6. “Now, they have that right,
but it’s not a good practice. It’s not necessarily fair to
consumers.”  Awaiting Director’s Confirmation  The consumer bureau, which officially started operating in
July, awaits the Senate confirmation of its director,  Richard Cordray . Republicans have vowed to oppose approving Obama’s
nominee until changes are made to the agency.  Consumers should be able to easily compare costs across
banks, the bureau said in an Oct. 5 release that specified that
it wasn’t addressing “any one fee from any one bank.”  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, is
streamlining the firm, which swelled to become the biggest U.S.
lender after more than $130 billion in acquisitions by his
predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis . Moynihan agreed to sell almost
$50 billion in assets and units and said that he would trim $5
billion in expenses, mostly by eliminating 30,000 consumer-
banking jobs.  Yesterday, Darnell likened efforts to dispose of non-core
assets to cleaning a garage that became full over the years,
according to the people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 