-- 
Offshore Wind ‘Moon Landing’ May Kick-Start Development in U.S.

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-10-12T22:08:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/offshore-wind-moon-landing-may-kick-start-development-in-u-s-.html
The U.S. needs its own version of
 Alpha Ventus ,  Germany ’s first offshore wind farm, to drive the
industry on this side of the Atlantic, wind developers and
officials said.  There are almost a dozen wind farms planned off U.S. shores
and none are under construction. One, Cape Wind in
 Massachusetts , has been in the works for a decade and it’s still
not clear when the first turbines will be installed.  Completing a project in U.S. waters would show that
developers can complete the permitting and financing processes
and may provide a needed spark to the industry, said executives
from Europe’s offshore energy industry and supporters of land-
based wind farms in the U.S.  Alpha Ventus was “like Germany’s moon landing,” Jens
Eckhoff, president of the German Offshore Foundation, said
today.  E.ON AG, Vattenfall Europe AG and the German utility EWE AG
invested 250 million euros ($333 million) to install Alpha
Ventus’s 12 turbines about 45 kilometers (28 miles) off the
German coast. They went into operation in April 2010, giving the
country’s developers confidence to plan additional projects in
the  North Sea .  “The U.S. needs a similar project to be an international
showpiece,” Eckhoff said during a panel at the  American Wind
Energy Association  Offshore Wind 2011 Conference in Baltimore.  More than 1,200 megawatts of offshore wind capacity was
installed worldwide last year, and total capacity is expected to
reach 20 gigawatts in 2015, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. Of that, 658 megawatts will be in the U.S.  Finding ‘Gold’  Offshore wind is a potential gold mine, said Chet Culver,
who was governor of  Iowa  from 2007 to 2011. Iowa is the second-
largest source of wind power in the U.S. after  Texas  and gets as
much as  20 percent  of its energy from turbines. “You’ve got to
build the infrastructure to get to the gold,” he said in an
interview yesterday.  The U.S. announced the first offshore lease at the AWEA
event last year, for Cape Wind, and the second may be issued
“within months, maybe within weeks,” Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said yesterday at the conference. As many as five
offshore wind permits may be approved within a year, he said.  Salazar and Energy Secretary Steven Chu set in February a
 goal  of 10 gigawatts of offshore wind capacity in the U.S. by
2020 and 54 gigawatts by 2030.  Siemens Deal  Turbine companies and developers are already striking
supply deals.  Siemens AG (SIE) , the world’s largest offshore wind-turbine
maker, has agreed to provide both financing and equipment for
Cape Wind, the $2.6 billion project off Cape Cod that may have
as much as 468 megawatts of capacity.  Deepwater Wind LLC  announced  yesterday that it will buy
five of Siemens’s 6-megawatt offshore wind turbines for the
Block Island Wind Farm it’s planning 3 miles southeast of Block
Island,  Rhode Island .  The sale “shows that the offshore wind industry is gaining
momentum in the U.S.,” Mark Albenze, chief executive officer of
the Americas for Siemens Energy’s Wind Power Division, said in
Providence, Rhode Island-based Deepwater’s announcement.  Sea-based wind power may become a major source of jobs and
revenue, said John Breckenridge, a New York-based managing
director of Good Energies Capital Inc. The Swiss renewable
energy investment company is one of the backers of the  Atlantic
Wind Connection , an undersea transmission line that’s planned to
carry power from offshore wind farm to Mid-Atlantic states from
 New York  to  Virginia .  ‘Complicated Financing’  “There is this huge opportunity in the Mid-Atlantic to
create this 20-year, multibillion dollar industry,”
Breckenridge said today in an interview. “The first offshore
wind projects will require complicated financing,” and once one
is complete, a lot of people will be interested in investing in
the industry, he said.  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  are also backing the
Atlantic Wind Connection, a $5 billion project that may
eventually carry as much as 7,000 megawatts. “This solves
transmission issues and those of offshore wind,” Rick Needham,
Google’s director of green business operations, said in a joint
interview with Breckenridge. “Kick-starting an industry is not
something you do overnight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  