-- 
London Farm Advertisements Have 60 Seconds to Grab Planeloads of Eyeballs

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-10-13T10:17:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/london-farmers-offer-60-second-advertising-window-to-target-air-passengers.html
Air passengers may see more than
just empty fields next time they approach London’s  Heathrow
airport , according to Antony Ganjou, whose company is trying to
rent the land to advertisers before the 2012 Olympics.  Curb Media Ltd. , which Ganjou set up in 2008, has taken on
about 150 acres (61 hectares) of land around Heathrow and seven
other U.K. airports, he said in an interview last week. Ganjou,
30, plans to create giant displays on the sites that can be seen
from an altitude of about 600 feet (183 meters).  “Between 10 seconds and about 60 seconds is when people
are staring out of the window, both on landing and takeoff,”
Ganjou said. “None of the adverts that we create are visible
from the public highway; they can only be seen from the air.”  Curb Media charges companies about 50,000 pounds ($79,000)
to place an ad on one of its sites for two to three months, he
said. In December, Curb worked with  Sony Music Entertainment  to
publicize  Michael Jackson ’s posthumous record using a 29,000
square-foot (2,700 square-meter) billboard near Heathrow. The ad
for “Michael” was the largest of its kind in the world,
according to  Guinness World Records .  The media company is working with 18 landowners in the
U.K., including Cecile Wiggins, who uses a plot close to
Heathrow airport for farming. While agricultural land values in
Britain climbed to a record in the first half, farmers are
trying to make better use of sites that aren’t fit for raising
livestock or growing crops.  Flight Path  “There’s more money in advertising than in agricultural
land,” said Wiggins, who’s owned the site at  Europe ’s busiest
airport for about 40 years. “The land is near the flight path
coming into land at Heathrow’s Westside,” he said.  A landowner can lease an acre of land around Heathrow to
companies like Curb Media for as much as 7,500 pounds a month,
Ganjou said. They may get a share of the revenue generated from
selling advertisements, he said.  The average value of English farmland fell 1 percent in
third quarter from the previous three months and is likely to
decline further this year amid the European sovereign debt
crisis, real estate broker Knight Frank LLP said last month.  Aircraft are flying at an altitude of about 600 feet when
they fly over the site that Curb Media’s aims to use, which is
about 3.5 kilometers from the airport, Ganjou said. A plot of
land that the company leases on the east side of Heathrow has
limited use for its landowner because the British Aviation
Authority has designated it a crash site.  Potential Clients  Curb Media is in talks with potential advertisers including
airlines, Ganjou said. He declined to name any of the companies.  “Airlines are obvious clients who want to be involved in
an installation like this,” Ganjou said.  A plane takes off or lands at Heathrow about once every
minute, according to the airport’s website. The 44 domestic
sponsors of next year’s Summer Games, which start July 27,
include British Airways Plc, Adidas AG and BP Plc.  Curb Media’s airport-related business, called  High Profile ,
will probably generate revenue of about 500,000 pounds in the
first year, Ganjou said. The company as a whole has targeted
sales of about 780,000 pounds for this year and expects that to
double in 2012.  The London-based startup also has access to land at
Gatwick,  London  City, Manchester, Birmingham, Liverpool, Glasgow
and Edinburgh airports, according to its website.  “There can be a lucrative income from a plot of land that
was essentially doing nothing for the landlord,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 