-- 
‘Buffett Rule’ May Be Broken by 25% of Millionaire Taxpayers, Study Finds

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-10-12T21:03:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/one-fourth-of-millionaires-may-break-buffett-rule-study-says.html
About 25 percent of millionaires in
the U.S. pay federal taxes at lower effective rates than a
significant portion of middle-income taxpayers, according to a
legislative analysis.  Preferential treatment of investment income and the reduced
impact of payroll taxes on high earners lets about 94,500
millionaires pay taxes at a lower rate than 10.4 million
“moderate-income taxpayers,” representing about 10 percent of
those making less than $100,000 a year, according to the report
by the non-partisan  Congressional Research Service  dated Oct. 7.  The findings put the U.S. tax system in conflict with the
so-called Buffett Rule, which says households making more than
$1 million annually shouldn’t pay a smaller share of their
income in taxes than middle class families, says the report,
which analyzed 2006 Internal Revenue Service data.  The Buffett principle was proposed by President  Barack Obama  in September after billionaire  Warren Buffett , the 81-
year-old chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., said it was wrong that he paid taxes at a lower
rate than 20 other people who worked in his office.  Obama has said the Buffett Rule should be a guiding
principle of efforts to reform the U.S. tax code.  The Buffett maxim and broader proposals by Obama and
Democrats to raise taxes on the rich have been criticized as
“class warfare” by some congressional Republicans.  Voluntary Tax Payments  On Oct. 5, Louisiana Republican Representative Steve Scalise introduced  H.R. 3099 , the Buffett Rule Act of 2011,
which would authorize the IRS to print a box on tax returns that
filers may check if they want to voluntarily pay more tax.  Earlier this month,  Senate Democrats  proposed paying for
Obama’s $447 billion jobs package with a 5.6 percent surtax on
individual incomes exceeding $1 million. The jobs plan was
sidetracked by the Senate yesterday after falling short of the
60 votes it needed to advance.  Yesterday, Buffett declined the request of a Republican
congressman to swap tax returns and reiterated his pledge to
publish the form if other billionaires would do the same.  The Congressional Research Service report found that, on
average, millionaires paid federal tax at a 30 percent rate,
while moderate-income taxpayers, defined as those earning less
than $100,000, were taxed at 19 percent.  The overall average, though, “obscures a great deal of
variation,” including the finding that 25 percent of
millionaires pay lower rates than 10 percent of moderate
earners, the report found.  The findings “would be considered a violation of the
Buffett Rule, but not to the extent alluded to by Mr. Buffett,”
the report says.  Payroll Taxes  The report says moderate-income taxpayers bear the brunt of
the Social Security payroll tax because it applies only to the
first $106,800 in wages.  The tax is set at 12.4 percent, split equally between
workers and employers. The portion of the tax that employees pay
was temporarily cut to 4.2 percent in last December’s tax bill.
Obama’s jobs plan proposes another temporary measure that would
reduce the employee share to 3.1 percent and cut an employer’s
share to 3.1 percent on the first $5 million of payroll. An
additional 2.9 percent tax for Medicare is levied on all wages.  In addition, the report says, a significant portion of
millionaires derive income from dividends,  capital gains  or
carried interest, all taxed at 15 percent. Ordinary income is
taxed at rates ranging from 10 percent for low earners to a top
marginal rate of 35 percent.  The report found that a relatively small proportion of
business owners are millionaires and played down the impact of
higher tax rates on  job creation .  “The small share of taxpayers with small-business income
in the millionaire category suggests that tax reform policies
designed to ensure adherence to the Buffett Rule will affect few
small businesses,” the report says.  The findings of the CRS study are similar to an analysis
last month by the non-profit  Citizens for Tax Justice , a labor-
funded research group based in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  