-- 
Lone Star’s Former Korea Chief Yoo Appeals Against Stock-Trade Conviction

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-10-12T02:57:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/lone-star-s-former-korea-chief-yoo-appeals-against-stock-trade-conviction.html
Paul Yoo, the former head of  Lone
Star  Funds’ South Korean unit, appealed to the nation’s highest
court against his conviction for stock-price manipulation and a
three-year jail sentence.  Yoo filed the appeal at the Supreme Court of  Korea  on Oct.
10,  Seoul High Court  spokesman Oh Min Seok said by telephone
today, confirming statements posted on the court’s website. The
grounds for the appeal weren’t immediately provided.  The high court on Oct. 6 overturned a June 2008 acquittal
for Yoo and Lone Star and fined the Dallas-based fund 25 billion
won ($21 million) following a conviction on charges of stock-
price manipulation. Lone Star will need to separately file an
appeal by the end of tomorrow if the fund wants the  Supreme
Court  to reconsider the lower court’s decision, Oh said.  Park Sang Il, an attorney for Yoo, confirmed that an appeal
had been filed when reached by telephone today. Jed Repko, a
spokesman for Lone Star, declined to comment on whether the fund
will appeal and on Lone Star’s position on Yoo’s appeal,
according to an e-mailed response to questions.  The high court began the retrial on June 16 after the
Supreme Court asked it to reconsider whether Yoo, Korea Exchange
Bank and Lone Star’s local unit broke stock trading rules. Judge
Cho Kyung Ran last week said Yoo spread false rumors of a
possible capital reduction at Korea Exchange Bank’s credit card
unit in 2003, with the intention of driving down its value
before the lender absorbed the unit. Lone Star had a 10 billion
won gain from Yoo’s illegal activity, Cho said.  The high court last week said  Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  wasn’t
guilty of manipulating the stock price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  