-- 
Hong Kong’s Real Estate Stocks Reverse Losses After Tsang’s Policy Address

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-12T08:29:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/hong-kong-developers-reverse-losses-after-policy-address.html
Hong Kong  developers’ shares rose,
reversing losses, after the government said it will build
subsidized homes and ensure supply of land for private
housing, easing concerns of more curbs to damp soaring prices.  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks the city’s
seven biggest developers, advanced 3 percent at the close in
Hong Kong, after falling as much as 2.3 percent. It was the
biggest gain among four industry groups on the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index .  More than 17,000 subsidized homes will be available to
meet demand from lower-income families over four years from
2016, Chief Executive Donald Tsang said today in his final
policy address before his term ends next year. The government
will also provide enough land for 20,000 private homes a year,
he said.  “The housing policy will have limited impact on the
private  property market  because the units the government will
launch in the first year is very small and it’s targeting a
different group of people who can’t afford private housing,”
said Jonas Kan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Daiwa Capital
Markets. “This is not targeting to curb the private
market.”  Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd., the city’s second-biggest
real estate company by market value, climbed 1.9 percent
after sliding as much as 2 percent. Sun Hung Kai Properties
Ltd., the largest, rose 2.3 percent from a decline of 2.5
percent.  Government Curbs  Home prices , which have surged more than 70 percent
since the start of 2009, have been almost unchanged since
June, according to an index compiled by Centaline Property
Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest privately held real estate
agency.  The government has tightened mortgages four times since
2009 to cool home prices that have been underpinned by
record-low  interest rates  and an influx of wealthy Chinese
buyers from other parts of the country. Hong Kong’s central
bank is deprived of monetary tools to curb price gains
because of its currency’s peg to the  U.S. dollar .  Subsidies Return  The city scrapped a subsidized-home program, which sold
apartments at a discount of about 30 percent to market prices,
in 2002 after developers said the cheaper housing will cut
demand for privately built homes.  “The land for public housing for now won’t have much
impact on the private market,” said Kan, who expects home
prices to fall 10 percent by the end of the year from the
peak in June. “The government is planning to launch more
land so this will give a bigger chance for Hong Kong
developers to acquire land.”  The number of home sales in Hong Kong slumped 54 percent
last month from a year earlier as buyers put off purchases on
concern the global economy will slip into a recession.  China Resources Land Ltd., a state-controlled property
developer, jumped 6.6 percent, while China Overseas Land &
Investment Ltd., a builder controlled by the country’s
construction ministry, fell to a four-month low in Hong Kong
trading added 5.8 percent, reversing a decline of 6.7 percent.  “This is just a confirmation and removal of fears in
the market of further policies that the government may have
come out with in the policy address,” said  Cusson Leung , a
Hong Kong-based property analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG.  --Bonnie Cao. With assistance from Marco Lui in Hong Kong.
Editor: Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc in Hong Kong at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  