-- 
Hong Kong Inflation Better Than Peg Change, Greenwood Says

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   R o b y n   M e r e d i t h
-- 
2011-10-13T06:09:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/hong-kong-inflation-better-than-change-to-peg-greenwood-says.html
Hong Kong must bear the pain of
inflation to maintain the dollar peg because the Chinese city
may be worse off with the alternatives, according to  John Greenwood , architect of the city’s fixed-exchange-rate system.  Hong Kong’s consumer prices excluding distortions from
government subsidies rose 6.3 percent in August from a year
earlier, the highest rate since the global financial crisis in
2008. Accelerating inflation has highlighted limits on monetary
policy in the city, where official  interest rates  move in sync
with those of the U.S. Federal Reserve.  “Although inflation is unpleasant, undesirable, it is a
lesser cost than having a fluctuating currency such as we had in
1983,” Greenwood, chief economist at Invesco Asset Management,
said in an interview in Hong Kong yesterday. “We would be
jeopardizing, potentially, a lot of the capital market
activities if we have to move to a more volatile currency
system.”  William Ackman , founder of hedge fund Pershing Square
Capital Management LP, said last month he’s placed a wager that
would profit if Hong Kong changes its 28-year-old currency peg,
which holds at about HK$7.80 versus the  U.S. dollar .  Norman Chan , head of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the city’s de
facto central bank, in August rejected proposals for a peg to a
basket of currencies or the yuan instead of the greenback.  It’s not possible to peg the  Hong Kong dollar  to the yuan
because the Chinese currency is not yet convertible, Greenwood
said. There’s “no chance” the city will revalue to peg as that
would “set up expectations that can be moved again,” he said.  Global Recession ‘Likely’  Inflation in the city “seems to have peaked” and there
are risks of recession, Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang 
said today. Tsang announced yesterday one-off relief subsidies
of HK$3.8 billion ($488 million) to help the poor cope with
rising living costs in his final policy address.  Greenwood said a global recession is “quite likely” if
the euro region “mishandles”  Greece ’s debt crisis. The
prospect of Greece defaulting offers “the quickest and less
costly solution” to the European sovereign debt crisis, even as
this option may not be welcome by some policy makers because of
the effect on banks and insurance companies, he said.  Financial markets will continue to have a “high degree of
volatility” as investors bid up stocks whenever European
leaders pledge help, only to sell when they are disappointed
later by details of the proposed solutions, Greenwood said.  “If we have a major European crisis, I expect the Chinese
to stop their appreciation” of the yuan, Greenwood said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong  at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net 
Robyn Meredith in Hong Kong at 
 rmeredith8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  