-- 
Monsanto, Dupont Seeds Won’t Solve Hunger, Howard Buffett Says

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-10-13T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/monsanto-dupont-seeds-won-t-solve-hunger-howard-buffett-says.html
Howard Buffett  said seeds made by
 Monsanto Co. (MON)  and DuPont Co. shouldn’t be over-emphasized as a
way to end hunger and develop farming in Africa, arguing that
poor countries have needs that improved crop inputs won’t fix.  Small farmers in Africa and elsewhere often lack the income
and training to buy and use biotech seeds and may become
skeptical of technology if new products are used improperly, the
56-year-old son of billionaire Warren Buffett said. Howard
Buffett, a board member of his father’s company,  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , was interviewed yesterday at the  World Food Prize 
conference in Des Moines, Iowa.  “Stop thinking that what we know how to do is going to
work for somebody else,” Buffett said. “We need to be
intelligent enough and humble enough to admit that we don’t know
everything and that we certainly don’t know some things in other
parts of the world that need to happen.”  World food prices reached a record in February and are up
16 percent in the past year, driving unrest from Tunisia and
 Egypt  to Uganda. Twenty-six countries, mostly in sub-Saharan
Africa, have levels of hunger that are “extremely alarming” or
“alarming,” down from  29 last year , the International Food
Policy Research Institute said in a report this week.  Ambassador Against Hunger  Buffett, a Berkshire director since 1993, is an  ambassador
against hunger  for the United Nations World Food Program and
runs  the Howard G. Buffett Foundation , which aids subsistence
farming. His father once said that Howard, who farms land in
Nebraska and  South Africa , “would rather spend an evening on a
tractor in the field than on a date with Angelina Jolie.”  His foundation yesterday released a report that said hunger
has persisted in Africa partly because of inadequate farmer
training and lack of research into the best crops to grow.  Howard is the second of  Warren Buffett ’s three children and
the only one with a position on the Berkshire board.  The  World Food Prize  conference is held annually in Des
Moines to honor individuals “who have advanced human
development by improving the quality, quantity or availability
of food.” This year’s recipients, former presidents John Kufuor
of Ghana and  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  of  Brazil , were announced
in June.  Conference sponsors include the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation, the John Deere Foundation, Monsanto, DuPont, Archer
Daniels Midland Co., PepsiCo Inc., General Mills Co. and Cargill
Inc.  St. Louis-based Monsanto is the world’s biggest seed
producer, followed by DuPont’s Pioneer unit. DuPont is based in
Wilmington, Delaware.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 