-- 
Los Angeles Dodgers Ordered to Return Papers MLB Monitor Left at Stadium

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-10-12T19:12:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/los-angeles-dodgers-ordered-to-return-papers-mlb-monitor-left-at-stadium.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers  were ordered
by a bankruptcy judge to return papers left behind when the team
expelled a monitor installed by  Major League Baseball .  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross today told the club to
turn over documents in the office used by  Thomas Schieffer , who
was forced out as the team’s monitor after it filed bankruptcy
in June. Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  appointed Schieffer in
April to oversee the Dodgers’ finances and day-to-day
operations.  Schieffer installed a separate computer-network server and
phone lines at Dodger Stadium and brought in a lockable,
fireproof filing cabinet so MLB papers would “at all times be
kept away” from team owner Frank McCourt and Dodgers officials,
MLB attorney Glenn Kurtz said during a hearing today.  The Dodgers copied all of the papers Schieffer hadn’t
locked away and then asked MLB for the key to the cabinet,
Dodgers’ attorney Sidney Levinson said in the hearing, which was
held by telephone. MLB refused and demanded that the documents
be turned over, claiming they included confidential information.  Gross, in Wilmington,  Delaware , ordered the Dodgers to turn
over the papers. Team officials haven’t reviewed any of the
materials, Levinson said.  MLB ‘Grandstand’  “Today’s hearing is an example in spades of MLB and the
commissioner using the Bankruptcy Court to grandstand about
Frank McCourt, rather than working constructively to reorganize
the Dodgers,” the team said in an e-mailed statement.  Selig has accused McCourt of mismanaging the team. The
Dodgers filed for bankruptcy after Selig refused to approve a
new television contract McCourt negotiated with the current
broadcaster,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports.  Gross this month will hold a hearing to decide whether to
grant Selig’s request to force McCourt to sell the team or to
let McCourt try again to sell TV broadcast rights. Gross has
said he expects both Selig and McCourt to testify at the
hearing, scheduled to start Oct. 31.  The bankruptcy case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-
12010,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  