-- 
Total, Statoil Spearhead $38 Billion North Sea Investment

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-10-12T17:30:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/total-statoil-spearhead-38-billion-north-sea-oil-investment.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  are spearheading a $38.2 billion investment drive in the
U.K. North Sea as producers target the largest number of fields
since 1995, according to  Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd.   The explorers are targeting 50 deposits with an estimated 2
billion barrels of resources, which will account for a third of
the nation’s expected output by 2019, the Edinburgh, Scotland-
based consultant said today in a report.  “The pipeline of new projects and developments likely to
go ahead offshore U.K. is looking healthy,”  Wood Mackenzie  said
in the report. “However, maintaining this pipeline at current
levels will require significant exploration success and
continued investment.”  Explorers are taking advantage of available infrastructure
and proximity to markets to ramp up investment in the  North Sea .
Statoil plans to invest about $9.6 billion in the Mariner and
Bressay fields, Total is focusing on the $3.9 billion
Laggan/Tormore development west of the Shetland Islands and
Chevron is leading the  Rosebank  project.  “We have never been as active as today in the U.K. and
it’s true also for the North Sea,” said Patrice de Vivies,
senior vice president for Northern Europe at Total, the largest
investor in U.K. offshore exploration and production.  Record Drop  Increased investment comes after the U.K.’s total oil
output fell at the fastest quarterly pace in the three months
ended June since 1995, according to the Department of Energy and
Climate Change.  U.K. North Sea oil production fell below 1 million barrels
a day in June for the first time in 30 years, down from a peak
of 2.7 million in 1999, said Evolution Securities Ltd.  “The U.K. North Sea is in decline and quite a steep
decline,” said Graham Stewart, chief executive officer of  Faroe
Petroleum Plc (FPM) , an independent U.K. explorer. Even so, falling
output will be offset by smaller field developments as “it’s
not over in the U.K., far from it,” he said.  Higher oil investment in the U.K. North Sea is reducing the
rate of natural production decline to 6 percent from as much as
20 percent, according to Total.  The number of smaller explorers moving forward with new
developments in the North Sea has climbed by 50 percent from
2009, Wood Mackenzie said. “The current probable development
portfolio contains the largest number of fields since 1995,”
it said.  Acquisitions  Rising oil prices and cheaper equity valuations are already
spurring acquisitions of U.K. North Sea explorers.  Premier Oil
Plc (PMO)  this month agreed to buy  EnCore Oil Plc (EO/)  for $340 million,
while  Apache Corp. (APA)  bought some local assets from  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  for $1.75 billion.  “The number of recent discoveries made in the U.K. sector
does prove that there is still scope for growth,” said Martin
Rune Pedersen, managing director of the U.K. division of Maersk
Oil, a unit of  Denmark ’s biggest company. “New technology is
the key to accessing more volumes.”  This week, EON AG of  Germany  announced the newest discovery
in the U.K. North Sea at the Tolmount license with partner Dana
Petroleum E&P. Outside the U.K. continental shelf, Statoil ASA
and Lundin Petroleum AB have made what could be  Norway ’s third-
largest oil discovery at the Aldous-Avaldsnes field.  “There is a continued opportunity in the North Sea,
particularly for the independent players,” said Rick Clark, a
finance director at Aberdeen-based field services company
 Reservoir Group . “There is existing infrastructure that
independent companies are able to use at relatively low costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  