-- 
Motorola’s Former Chief Executive Robert Galvin Dies at 89

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-10-12T22:07:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/motorola-s-former-chief-executive-robert-galvin-dies-at-89.html
Robert Galvin, who led Motorola Inc.
as chief executive officer for 29 years, died at the age of 89.  He “died peacefully” during the night of Oct. 11, the
Galvin family said in a statement today.  Galvin, the son of Motorola founder Paul Galvin, took over
a two-way radio and communications company with annual sales of
$290 million in 1959 when his father died. By the time he left
the company as chairman in 1990, he had turned Motorola into a
wireless-telephone pioneer with revenue of $10.8 billion.  “The world lost one of the all-time greats,”  Greg Brown ,
CEO of Schaumburg, Illinois-based Motorola Solutions Inc., said
in an interview. “He was one of a kind.”  Motorola split in January following pressure from investors
led by  Carl Icahn  to boost performance amid a handset sales
slump. The mobile-phone unit was spun off as Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. led by Sanjay Jha in Libertyville, Illinois, while
the remaining business was renamed Motorola Solutions.  “Today we lost a transformative leader and a visionary,”
Jha said in an e-mailed statement.  Jha agreed in August to sell Motorola Mobility to  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  for about $12.5 billion.  Mobile-Phone Leader  Galvin, born in 1922 in Marshfield,  Wisconsin , went to high
school in Illinois and to the  University of Notre Dame  before
joining Motorola in 1944. He led the expansion of Motorola’s
walkie-talkie and paging businesses and the company developed
the first mobile-phone prototype in 1971 under his watch.  That led to the commercialization of Motorola’s DynaTAC in
1983, which was the forerunner of phones like the StarTAC that
made Motorola a handset leader in the 1990s. Simultaneously
Galvin pushed the company into new markets in  Europe ,  Latin
America ,  Southeast Asia  and  China  throughout the 1980s.  In retirement, Galvin established two research institutes
devoted to electricity, transportation and infrastructure
policy, as well as writing, the family said. He is survived by
sons Chris and Michael, daughters Gail and Dawn and 13
grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  