-- 
House Considers Health Tax Credit to Ease Contractor Tax Compliance Burden

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-10-13T16:12:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/house-considers-health-tax-credit-to-pay-for-withholding-repeal.html
A House panel approved legislation
making it tougher for some Social Security recipients to receive
subsidized health insurance and repealing a requirement that the
 Internal Revenue Service  withhold 3 percent of government
contracts.  The health proposal, approved today by the Ways and Means
Committee on a 23-12 vote, would raise $13 billion for the U.S.
government over the next decade. The contractor tax bill, backed
on a voice vote, would cost the government $11 billion in
forgone revenue, according to the congressional Joint Committee
on Taxation.  The bills may be combined for a deficit-neutral approach to
passing the repeal of the contracting requirement. Ways and
Means Chairman  Dave Camp , a  Michigan  Republican, said no
decision has been made about whether the two bills will be
combined. House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia
Republican, has said he expects the contract measure to be taken
up by the House this month.  Lawmakers lauded the contractor bill as a step toward
removing an administrative burden on tax-compliant companies
that have been campaigning for repeal.  “Permanently repealing this tax is an important step
toward giving these businesses the assurance that it’s safe to
invest, grow and hire more workers,” said Representative Wally Herger, a California Republican.  Changing Income Definition  The health bill, sponsored by Republican Representative
Diane Black of  Tennessee , would change the definition of income
used to calculate eligibility for Medicaid or health insurance
subsidies under the 2010 health-care law. Taxpayers would be
required to include in their income Social Security benefits
that are excluded from taxable income. The health-care law
features a definition that requires inclusion of similar income
sources, such as tax-exempt interest.  The change would prevent middle-income Americans from
benefitting from a program designed for the poor, Black said
today.  “It is our duty to ensure the very scarce Medicaid
resources are there for those in most need,” she said.  The provision would affect a minority of Social Security
recipients, including those receiving disability benefits and
early retirees who aren’t yet eligible for Medicare, said  Paul
van de Water , a senior fellow at the  Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities  in Washington, which advocates for low-income
families.  Eligibility  The proposal would tie eligibility for health benefits to a
more comprehensive definition of income, he said. Some people
would shift from Medicaid into health insurance exchanges, while
others would lose eligibility for subsidies.  “Although the number affected is not huge, the people
affected still have relatively modest incomes, so that’s a
downside to it,” Van de Water said.  The Obama administration included a version of the Social
Security proposal in a deficit-reduction plan in September, and
Republicans emphasized the administration’s support.  The contractor repeal bill, supported by the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce and affected state and local governments, would end
a 2006 requirement intended to prevent tax cheating by
contractors that is scheduled to take effect in 2013. Business
groups contend that it creates unnecessary administrative
burdens for companies complying with tax laws.  Majority Support  Under the requirement, when a company receives a $1 billion
contract, for example, the government would keep $30 million
until the company files its next  tax return .  Lawmakers said that it would cost the government more to
administer the requirement than it would generate in revenue.  The bipartisan repeal bill in the House has 263 co-
sponsors, or more than 60 percent of members.  Democrats, who backed the contractor bill, questioned
offsetting its cost by curtailing the health care law they
supported last year.  Representative Sander Levin of Michigan, the top Democrat
on the committee, said Congress should proceed carefully in
pairing the health and contractor bills.  “This is an offset that affects individuals and it’s being
used to pay for a provision that principally affects
businesses,” he said.  The government hasn’t let the contractor tax requirement
take effect. Congress delayed it as part of the 2009 stimulus
law, and earlier this year, the IRS pushed the start date back
to 2013. President  Barack Obama  included a delay to 2014 in his
most recent jobs legislation.  ‘Revenue Lost’  Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , who was Finance Committee
chairman when the contractor withholding tax law was written in
2006, said in an interview that he didn’t want to end the
requirement without addressing the issue of tax cheating by
contractors.  “There’s still a lot of revenue lost,” said Grassley, a
Republican. “We’re trying to find another way to collect it
without the 3 percent.”  Camp said after the vote that he hasn’t talked with
senators about advancing the contractor bill.  “We have something now to take over,” he said.  The bills are HR 674 and HR 2576.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  