-- 
Panetta Calls for Service ‘Teamwork’ to Weather Budget Storms

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-10-12T12:21:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/panetta-calls-for-service-teamwork-to-weather-budget-storms.html
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  today
called on the military services to bury their parochial budget
perspectives and work as a team to find at least $450 billion in
savings through 2021.  Panetta, in the prepared text for an address this morning
to the Association of the U.S. Army in Washington, said budget
pressures shouldn’t set off an inter-service resource war that
undercuts a decade of Army, Navy, Marine Corps and Air Force
combat cooperation and war-fighting lessons.  “It will need to be a smaller military, we will need to
sacrifice some capabilities and curtail some commitments,”
Panetta said. “But we cannot render null and void the hard-
learned lessons of 10 years of war, we cannot afford to ignore
essential capabilities we have let lapse and we absolutely
cannot allow budget pressures to force the services into
parochialism and program survival mode,” he said.  Yesterday, Panetta urged Congress in a speech in  Washington 
to resist the urge to protect favored bases and and weapons
systems as the Pentagon reviews its strategies, roles and
missions to inform the budget reductions.  He delivered a similar message today to the military
services. The country needs a budget process where “our
military leaders will do what’s best for the entire force, not
just what’s best for their own service,” he said.  Panetta reiterated that “tough decisions await us,
decisions that will incur risk and will prey upon things and
programs and even some ideas we hold dear. We can’t let the
spirit of teamwork also fall victim.”  Few Details  Panetta still has given little detail about the potential
strategic options and program reductions the Pentagon is
considering. He is scheduled to testify tomorrow before the
House Armed Services Committee, where he likely will be pressed
to disclose more.  U.S. Army Lieutenant General Robert Lennox said Tuesday the
Army’s share of defense spending cuts may translate to between
$12 billion and $14 billion a year.  The Army already plans to shrink the number of active-duty
soldiers to about 520,000 from about 570,000 today.  Because the size of the force can’t be reduced quickly to
offset spending reductions, “the brunt of those cuts will come
in modernization and training,” said Lennox, deputy chief of
staff for weapons programs. “It’s just math.”  Panetta told the Army gathering that the U.S. will retain a
force capable of defeating any land foe.  “If the enemy challenges us in a conventional land war, we
need an Army that can, as General George Patton used to say,
‘hold the enemy by the nose and kick them in the ass,’” Panetta
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  