-- 
Hewlett-Packard Gains PC Market Share After Mulling Spinoff

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-10-12T23:44:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/pc-shipment-growth-misses-projections-as-economy-slumps-1-.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s proposal to
spin off its personal-computer business didn’t scare off many PC
buyers last quarter, with its U.S. and global market share
increasing in the period.  The  Palo Alto , California-based company’s share of U.S. PC
shipments rose to 28.9 percent from 25.4 percent a year earlier,
solidifying its lead in the industry,  Gartner Inc. (IT)  said today.
Worldwide, Hewlett-Packard’s share climbed to 17.7 percent from
17.3 percent. IDC, another market research firm, also showed the
company gaining ground.  Hewlett-Packard announced a proposal to spin off the PC
business on Aug. 18, under its previous chief executive officer,
 Leo Apotheker . The company, which replaced him with  Meg Whitman 
the following month, has been reconsidering the idea, people
familiar with the matter said in September.  “Despite the potential spinoff of its PC business, HP
executives’ efforts to give the appearance of ‘business as
usual’ seemed to work in the quarter,” Stamford, Connecticut-
based Gartner said in its report.  Total PC shipments rose less than forecast in the third
quarter, dragged down by disappointing back-to-school sales, a
sluggish economy and a shift to tablets and smartphones,
according to Gartner.  IPad Impact  Shipments climbed 3.2 percent, below the 5.1 percent growth
that had been projected, the research firm said. The industry
shipped 91.8 million units in the period, compared with almost
89 million last year, Gartner found. IDC said global sales rose
3.6 percent, below the 4.5 percent growth it had predicted.  “Back-to-school PC sales were disappointing in mature
markets, confirming that the consumer PC market continues to be
weak,” Mikako Kitagawa, a Gartner analyst, said in a statement.
“The popularity of non-PC devices, including media tablets,
such as the iPad and smartphones, took consumers’ spending away
from PCs.”  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  ranked No. 2 in global shipments for the
first time, after Hewlett-Packard. Lenovo had 13.5 percent of
the market, boosted by a joint venture with NEC Corp. and
aggressive marketing, Gartner said.  Dell Inc. (DELL)  was third, with
11.6 percent.  In the U.S., Dell was second with 21.9 percent, Gartner
said. Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , was the third-
biggest seller, accounting for 12.9 percent of the market, up
from 10.8 percent during the same period a year earlier, Gartner
said.  Hewlett-Packard also gained share in market data released
by IDC. In the U.S., the company’s market share grew to 28.6
percent, from 24.9 percent a year earlier.  Hewlett-Packard shares were little changed today in New
York trading. The stock has declined 39 percent this year, hurt
by investors’ concerns about its strategy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  