-- 
PCCW’s Shareholders Approve HK$10 Billion Business-Trust Plan

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-10-12T22:05:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/pccw-says-shareholders-approved-telecom-business-spin-off.html
PCCW Ltd. (8) , Hong Kong’s biggest phone
company, won shareholders’ approval to spin off a
telecommunications business trust, clearing the way for a
possible $1.3 billion initial public offering.  The proposed spinoff of HKT Trust was backed by more than
99 percent of votes cast by shareholders at a meeting in Hong
Kong yesterday, PCCW said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock
exchange. The plan required the support of more than 50 percent
of participating shareholders.  Billionaire Chairman Richard Li plans to use proceeds from
the proposed listing of HKT Trust to pay down PCCW’s debt and
invest in computer services and pay-television operations. The
planned offering will proceed if a minimum valuation of HK$28.6
billion ($3.7 billion) is achieved for the trust, which will
control PCCW’s businesses including fixed-line, mobile-phone and
broadband Internet, according to Li.  Proceeds from the offering of HKT will allow PCCW to invest
in faster-growing businesses, Li said. Telecommunications
operations are more “defensive” assets, he told shareholders
yesterday.  PCCW shares fell 0.3 percent to HK$2.89 in  Hong Kong 
trading yesterday, and have declined 16 percent this year. The
company has a market capitalization of HK$21 billion, based on
yesterday’s closing price.  The proposed spinoff is at least the sixth attempt since
2006 to reorganize PCCW. Li, PCCW’s biggest shareholder and son
of  Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd. Chairman  Li Ka-shing , failed to
buy out minority shareholders and delist the company in 2009,
after unsuccessful attempts in the previous three years to sell
down his interests in PCCW.  Majority Ownership  PCCW may sell 36.7 percent of HKT Trust to raise net
proceeds of about HK$10 billion, the company said last month.
The carrier plans to use the proceeds to reduce debt, which
amounted to HK$27.2 billion at a net level at the end of June,
according to its first-half earnings report.  PCCW said previously it will retain majority ownership of
HKT Trust.  Richard Li  increased his stake in PCCW to 27.6 percent from
27.5 percent, after acquiring 6.56 million shares on Oct. 10,
according to a stock exchange filing yesterday. He said
yesterday he won’t reduce his stake in PCCW and HKT Trust after
the spinoff.  PCCW aims to complete the listing of HKT Trust in the first
week of November, two people with knowledge of the matter said
this month. The company may start gaging investor demand in the
middle of this month, the people said.  The decline in global stock markets last quarter prompted
companies including Sany Heavy Industry Co. to delay or cancel
share sales in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  