-- 
PCCW Chairman Richard Li Tells Shareholders He Won’t Reduce His Holdings

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-10-12T06:12:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/pccw-chairman-li-tells-shareholders-he-won-t-reduce-holdings-1-.html
PCCW Ltd. (8)  Chairman  Richard Li  said
he won’t reduce his shareholding in  Hong Kong ’s biggest phone
company, which is seeking to spin off its telecommunications
assets to focus on media operations such as  pay television .  PCCW will “gradually” expand remaining businesses such as
computer services and media internationally after the proposed
spinoff of HKT Trust, Li told shareholders in Hong Kong today.
He also said he won’t reduce his stake in HKT Trust.  Billionaire Li, son of Hong Kong’s richest man, said PCCW
will only proceed with the initial public offering of HKT Trust
if it achieves a minimum valuation of HK$28.6 billion ($3.7
billion). The trust aims to draw investors by distributing a
higher proportion of PCCW’s income from fixed-line, mobile-phone
and broadband Internet operations.  Proceeds from the spinoff will allow PCCW to invest in
faster-growing businesses, Li said. Telecommunications
operations are more “defensive” assets, he said.  PCCW shares rose 0.7 percent to HK$2.92 as of 2:06 p.m. in
Hong Kong trading, and have declined 15 percent this year. The
company had a market capitalization of HK$21.1 billion based on
its closing share price yesterday.  Li boosted his holding in PCCW to 27.5 percent from 27.4
percent after acquiring 5.3 million shares on Oct. 7, according
to a Hong Kong stock exchange filing last week.  Sixth Attempt  The proposed spinoff is at least the sixth attempt since
2006 to reorganize PCCW, whose shares have declined more than 90
percent from their February 2000 peak. Li, PCCW’s biggest
shareholder and son of  Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd. Chairman  Li Ka-shing , failed to buy out minority shareholders and delist the
company in 2009, after unsuccessful attempts in the previous
three years to sell down his interests in PCCW.  PCCW may raise more than HK$10 billion from the listing of
HKT Trust, the company said last month. Proceeds will be used to
reduce debt and for investments, the company said.  PCCW aims to complete the listing of HKT Trust in the first
week of November, two people with knowledge of the matter said
this month. The company may start gauging investor demand in the
middle of this month, the people said.  The decline in global stock markets last quarter prompted
companies including Sany Heavy Industry Co. to delay or cancel
share sales in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  