-- 
Harrisburg Files for Bankruptcy on Overdue Incinerator Debt

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e ,   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-10-12T18:14:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/pennsylvania-capital-harrisburg-files-for-bankruptcy-over-incinerator-debt.html
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, facing a
state takeover of its finances, filed for  bankruptcy protection 
after failing to pay the debt on a trash-to-energy incinerator.  The council made its 4-3 decision against the advice of a
city attorney who said the panel did not follow proper
procedure. It’s the ninth bankruptcy filing this year by a
municipal-bond issuer, and the first by a U.S. state capital
since 1980 when the municipal bankruptcy laws were overhauled,
said  James Spiotto , a partner at Chapman & Cutler in  Chicago  who
tracks such cases.  “This was a last resort,” Mark D. Schwartz, the council’s
Bryn Mawr-based lawyer, said after he faxed the documents to a
federal court yesterday. “They’re at their wits’ end.”  Harrisburg is the biggest city to file for bankruptcy since
Vallejo,  California , filed in 2008, according to a ranking by
Municipal Market Advisors, a research firm in Concord,
 Massachusetts . Municipalities across the nation have been
battered by the financial crisis. Harrisburg’s filing came less
than a month after  Alabama ’s Jefferson County Commission voted
to try to avert what would have been the nation’s biggest
municipal bankruptcy, and nine months after Vallejo emerged.  The petition lists insurer  Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ)  as a
creditor due more than $70 million, and  Covanta Holding Corp. (CVA) ,
with about $120 million of bonds and advances of funds to
Harrisburg. The petition listed both assets and debt of between
$100 million and $500 million.  ‘Generally Not Paying’  The city of 49,500, the seat of Dauphin County, faces a
debt burden five times its general-fund budget because of an
overhaul and expansion of the incinerator, which doesn’t
generate enough revenue. Its total guaranteed debt is about $242
million, with $65 million of it overdue, according to the
petition.  “The city meets the ‘generally not paying’ definition of
insolvency, because it has repeatedly failed to pay the
guaranteed incinerator bond debt as it has become due,”
Harrisburg said in the filing. “Under the guarantees the city
would need to cover a combined $83 million of past due payments
and the 2011 debt service.”  While Chapter 9 bankruptcy, named for the section of
federal law that governs insolvent municipalities, would mean
the loss of state aid under a law passed in June, it would be
better than the pain that would be caused by a state-imposed
recovery plan, said Councilwoman Susan Brown-Wilson.  ‘Not Incompetent’  “We’re not incompetent,” Brown-Wilson said. “We’re just
not going to let you run us over with the train anymore.”  Dauphin County commissioners said the city council’s
bankruptcy filing isn’t “properly authorized under the law.”  “This latest action by City Council is nothing more than a
delay tactic to avoid making the tough decisions necessary to
resolve the city’s debt crisis,” said commissioners Jeff Haste,
Mike Pries and George P. Hartwick III in an e-mailed statement.  Harrisburg, as guarantor of the incinerator bonds, said it
filed for bankruptcy to escape lawsuits seeking judgments that
would force it to divert tax money to make payments.  The “remedies” demanded in six suits by Dauphin County,
Covanta and Toronto-Dominion Bank, a trustee for bondholders,
“would substantially interrupt the city’s ability to provide
health or safety services to its citizens,” according to the
bankruptcy petition. “Thus, the city is in imminent jeopardy of
creditor action” that would affect essential services.  Not Binding  Jason Hess, acting city attorney, told council members that
they didn’t follow procedure and their action wouldn’t be
binding. The members went ahead.  The filing is “a ridiculous idea not worth taking
seriously,” Robert Philbin, a spokesman for Mayor  Linda Thompson , said in a phone call today.  State Senator Jeffrey E. Piccola of Susquehanna Township in
Dauphin County called the council’s move unlawful and said it
puts the city closer to what would be the state’s first
municipal receivership.  “Rather than wasting precious time on illegal filings and
engaging expensive attorneys, the majority of City Council
should be about working with the mayor and the commonwealth to
resolve this crisis,” he said in an emailed statement.  Bankruptcy is going to mire the city in unaffordable
litigation, said Councilwoman Patty Kim, who voted against it.  “We still don’t have money, and we still haven’t moved one
foot forward,” Kim said.  Pennsylvania  Governor Thomas Corbett, a Republican, doesn’t
support bankruptcy because “it’s likely to adversely affect the
credit rating of the county and surrounding municipalities,”
said a spokeswoman, Kelli Roberts, in a phone call today.  Evaluating Options  Asked if there would be a legal challenge, she said,
“options are being evaluated.” Noting the state law that was
passed in June that barred Harrisburg from filing, she said,
“it’s an illegal act.” How much in state aid can be withheld
from the city isn’t stated in the law, she said.  Although Harrisburg was officially in bankruptcy when it
filed the Chapter 9 petition, whether it stays there is an open
question. Unlike companies, whose Chapter 11 filings are rarely
dismissed, a municipality can find itself tossed out of court.  Federal law lets states place restrictions on bankruptcy
filings by municipalities. As a result, the  Bankruptcy Code 
calls for the judge to entertain objections.  If an objector shows that the filing wasn’t authorized
under state law, the bankruptcy court dismisses the petition.  A state law bars Harrisburg from filing until July 2012. Of
the 629 Chapter 9 filings since 1937, 161 cases have been
dismissed or their plans haven’t been confirmed, Spiotto said.  Bankruptcy won’t provide revenue the city needs, Spiotto
said in a phone call today. “Working with the state, as they’ve
seen, provides more funds for them,” he said.  One Way Out  Richard Lehmann , publisher of the Distressed Debt
Securities Newsletter in  Miami Lakes ,  Florida , said the
council’s action is rational.  “They’re in trouble, and putting the bad image of
bankruptcy aside, this is a way for them to resolve the issue,”
he said.  Harrisburg needs $310 million to make bond payments,
restructure debt and repay the county and Hamilton, Bermuda-
based insurer  Assured Guaranty  Municipal Corp., which made
payments the city skipped on the waste-to-energy facility.
Schwartz said he expects Assured Guaranty will reduce the value
of its debt.  “Why should they be first in line?” he said.  In an opinion article published yesterday in a local
newspaper, the Patriot-News, the four council members who voted
for bankruptcy said Assured Guaranty and bondholders should
forgive at least $100 million of the debt.  They also said there should be a countywide sales tax of 1
percent to help pay off the debt. Schwartz, in the interview,
said that could forestall asset sales.  State Stepping In  The Pennsylvania Senate still plans to take up legislation
next week that would place Harrisburg in receivership, said a
spokesman, Erik Arneson, in an e-mail today.  The council in July and August rejected fiscal rescue
blueprints from consultants hired by the state and Mayor Linda
Thompson, triggering the legislative response.  The bill would let Corbett declare a fiscal emergency and
name a receiver who would develop a recovery plan. The manager
would be able to sell assets, hire advisers and suspend the
authority of elected officials who interfere. Unlike in
 Michigan , the receiver wouldn’t be able to change union
contracts.  Cravath Swaine  Richard Levin  and Paul Zumbro of Cravath Swaine & Moore
LLP, the New York-based law firm that was advising Harrisburg
free on municipal bankruptcy issues, said they aren’t involved
in today’s filing. “The council retained Pennsylvania
counsel,” Levin said.  He declined to say if Cravath had
dropped out, or the reverse.  Harrisburg’s filing hasn’t affected bond prices of other
Keystone state issuers. Investors realize that the problems
faced by the capital city are unusual and that the state is
proactive in addressing financially distressed municipalities,
said Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income research at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  “We haven’t seen any negative impact,” Schankel said.  In fact, the filing may help bondholders by pushing the
state legislature next week to approve legislation that would
allow a state takeover of Harrisburg, Schankel said.  Bonds  Some Harrisburg general obligation bonds traded at higher
prices to yesterday and weeks earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A zero coupon bond maturing in 2014
traded today at an average price of 80.856 cents on the dollar
up from 78.525 yesterday.  Assured Guaranty’s “net par exposure” to Harrisburg is
$252.8 million including incinerator debt and debt issued by the
parking and redevelopment authorities, spokeswoman Ashweeta
Durani said in an e-mail.  The case is In Re: City of Harrisburg, 11-06938, U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court , Middle District of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Harrisburg at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  