-- 
PepsiCo Profit Rises 4.1% on Snack Sales in Latin America

-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 
2011-10-12T20:12:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/pepsico-net-income-increases-4-as-revenue-from-frito-lay-snacks-advances.html
PepsiCo Inc., the world’s largest
snack-food maker, reported a 4.1 percent rise in third-quarter
profit, helped by price increases and sales of snacks in  Latin
America .  Net income advanced to $2 billion, or $1.25 a share, from
$1.92 billion, or $1.19, a year earlier, Purchase,  New York- 
based PepsiCo said today in a statement. Profit excluding some
items totaled $1.31 a share, beating the $1.30 average of 14
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Indra Nooyi raised snack and
beverage prices globally in the quarter to help counter higher
commodity costs, which the company projects will continue to
increase. PepsiCo created a council in September to better
coordinate sales of snacks and beverages after the company
reduced its full-year profit forecast.  “PepsiCo has been more aggressive raising prices than they
have in a long time,”  Jack Russo , an analyst with Edward Jones
& Co. in  St. Louis , Missouri, said today in a telephone
interview. “All the staples companies are seeing cost
pressures.” Russo recommends investors buy the shares.  PepsiCo, the world’s second-largest soft drink maker, rose
2.9 percent to $62.70 at the close in  New York . The shares have
dropped 4 percent this year.  ‘Margin Compression’  PepsiCo’s cost of sales in the quarter jumped 21 percent to
$8.45 billion, as operating margin narrowed to 16.5 percent from
18 percent a year earlier.  “The margin compression this quarter is very
straightforward,” Chief Financial Officer Hugh Johnston said
during a conference call with reporters. “It’s driven by the
net of the high input cost inflation that we have, relative to
the pricing that the consumer is able to absorb in developed
markets.”  Third-quarter sales rose 13 percent to $17.6 billion,
according to the statement. Global snacks volume grew 8 percent
while beverage volume advanced 4 percent.  Volume in the Latin America foods business climbed 3.5
percent, driven by the division’s largest markets, Mexico and
 Brazil . Snacks volume in the  Asia , Middle East & Africa unit
jumped 16 percent as beverage volume rose 6 percent.  Volume at PepsiCo’s Americas beverage unit was little
changed. Non-carbonated drinks volume growth in  North America 
was led by a 9 percent increase in Gatorade.  Losses to Coca-Cola  Carlos Laboy, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said
PepsiCo should separate its snacks unit from its North American
beverage division amid market-share losses to  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)   “PepsiCo will need to transform its current model into an
advantaged one,” Laboy, who is based in New York and has an
“outperform” rating on the shares, wrote in a report this
month. “It needs the funds to keep pace and a better structure
to make faster growth sustainable.”  Nooyi said on a conference call with analysts today that
PepsiCo’s value is maximized as one company. Splitting the
company wouldn’t outweigh the resulting increased operating
costs, said Johnston, adding he has “looked at every single
scenario you could probably come up with” to boost  shareholder
value .  PepsiCo also reiterated its forecast for 2011 of “high-
single-digit” earnings per share growth.  Coca-Cola, the world’s largest soft-drink maker, will
report third-quarter earnings Oct. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  