-- 
Aquino Unveils Stimulus Plan as Philippine Growth Forecasts Cut

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-10-12T08:11:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/philippines-says-2011-deficit-expected-at-260-6-billion-pesos.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
unveiled a 72 billion-peso ($1.7 billion) stimulus package of
public works and poverty reduction projects as a weakening
global economy forced the country to cut growth forecasts.  The additional spending authorized between now and the end
of the year includes a support fund for local governments of at
least 6.5 billion pesos for infrastructure development and
poverty alleviation, Aquino said in a speech in Manila today.
Economic officials cut their 2011 growth forecast to a range of
4.5 percent to 5.5 percent, from 5 percent to 6 percent.  “We want to put ourselves in a position to grow faster
when the world recovers,” Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima told
reporters today. “When markets abroad weaken, no economy will
be unaffected. The only question is how much growth will be
affected and what we’re doing is to help counter the slowdown.”  The Philippines became the first Asian nation outside  Japan 
to announce a stimulus plan this year to bolster slowing growth,
with neighboring  Indonesia  choosing to cut  interest rates 
yesterday while others including  Malaysia  and  South Korea  have
refrained from further monetary tightening. The spending package
will use funds from other projects that are behind schedule, the
government said, enabling it to trim its budget deficit forecast.  “This is a positive movement for the domestic economy
especially if the central bank wants to remain on hold for the
rest of the year,” said Betty Rui Wang, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “But the current package is
quite small. I doubt whether the impact will be substantial.”  Stocks Rise  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index rose 0.3 percent today
to the highest level since Sept. 21. The measure is down 1.9
percent this year as  Europe ’s deepening debt crisis and a
struggling U.S. expansion prompted investors to sell emerging-
market assets. The peso, which had its worst monthly loss since
May 2010 in September, rose less than 0.1 percent at the close
of trading in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  “If the fiscal stimulus does its job, this should give the
necessary push to keep our economic growth in a solid upward
trajectory,” central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said today.
The Philippines has sufficient liquidity, a stable  exchange rate 
and a “manageable” inflation outlook along with “fiscal
space” to help support economic growth, he said in an e-mail
reply to questions.  Growth in the $200 billion economy may range from 5 percent
to 6 percent in 2012, compared with a previous forecast of 5.5
percent to 6.5 percent, Economic Planning Secretary Cayetano Paderanga said today. Growth this year would have missed even
today’s lower forecasts without the stimulus package, the
government said.  Railway Upgrades  The Southeast Asian nation will accelerate a plan to
upgrade railways in  Manila , build low-cost housing, and repair
roads and bridges damaged by typhoons, Budget Secretary Butch Abad told reporters today in Manila after presenting the new
economic targets to lawmakers.  Still, the government narrowed its budget deficit target
for this year to 2.6 percent of gross domestic product, or about
260.6 billion pesos, from a previous goal of 3 percent, or about
300 billion pesos, Purisima said. Officials kept the goal for
2012 at 2.6 percent of GDP or about 286 billion pesos, he said.  Aquino’s government had a  budget surplus  in August, helping
narrow the eight-month shortfall to 34.5 billion pesos from
228.1 billion pesos in the same period in 2010. It lowered its
spending plan for this year to 1.62 trillion pesos from 1.71
trillion pesos previously because of project delays and savings
on debt payments, Abad said today.  Projects Delayed  The  Philippines  scaled down a plan to offer 10 projects
this year to investors under the so-called public-private
partnership, with the government planning to provide at least
two projects this quarter, Cosette Canilao,  executive director 
at the Public-Private Partnership Center, said last week.  Economic officials also slashed export and import growth
targets for this year and next, while keeping the inflation
targets and exchange-rate assumptions, Abad said.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will consider global
developments, including Indonesia’s rate cut and the slump in
Philippine exports in next week’s policy meeting, Tetangco said.  “In most jurisdictions, inflation seems to have become
less of a pressing concern,” he said. “The weakness in
advanced economies is seen to weigh more on emerging economies
than previously anticipated.”  Philippine exports slid the most since 2009 in August,
falling 15.1 percent from a year earlier, a report showed
yesterday. Economic growth slowed for a fourth straight quarter
to 3.4 percent in the three months through June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  