-- 
Philadelphia Orchestra’s Pension Claims Labor Deal Cancels Fund

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-10-12T20:58:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/philadelphia-orchestra-s-pension-claims-labor-deal-cancels-fund.html
The  Philadelphia Orchestra ’s pension
fund claims a new collective bargaining agreement the company
reached with its union allows it to cancel the fund.  The American Federation of Musicians and Employers’ Pension
Fund claims the Orchestra has misrepresented its financial
situation to avoid up to $35 million in obligations to the fund.  The orchestra “has distorted aspects of its financial
condition so that it could eliminate its obligations to pay for
pension benefits that were already earned,” said Raymond Hair,
co-chair of the pension fund, in a statement today.  Lawrence G. McMichael, a lawyer representing the orchestra,
wasn’t immediately available to respond to a phone call seeking
comment on the fund’s allegations and the new labor accord.  The musicians will vote on the new contract tomorrow, said
Susan Martin, an attorney for the union, in an e-mail. Joseph
Parente, president of the Local 77 AFM Philadelphia Musicians’
Union, did not immediately return a call for comment.  The pension fund sought court permission last week to
investigate donations received by the orchestra, to determine if
the funds would be available to satisfy its claims, according to
court documents.  Alan Raphael, co-chair of the pension fund, said in the
statement he “sees no alternative to litigation” to protect
the musicians.  The company has about $120 million in endowments which
can’t be used to pay general operating expenses, according to
the statement. The fund said it has already discovered that a $2
million donation was mischaracterized.  The April bankruptcy filing was partly blamed on the high
cost of the musicians’ pensions. The orchestra, which listed
less than $50 million in both assets and debt, also needed to
renegotiate the musicians’ labor contract.  The case is In re The Philadelphia Orchestra Association,
11-13098,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of
 Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net  