-- 
Pioneer, Nikon Lead Declines in Tokyo After Floods Close Thailand Plants

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 
2011-10-12T09:50:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/pioneer-toyota-nikon-decline-in-tokyo-after-floods-close-thailand-plants.html
Pioneer Corp. (6773) , a Japan-based maker
of car-navigation systems, fell the most in a month, leading
declines among manufacturers including  Nikon Corp. (7731)  after plants
in Thailand were shut because of flooding.  Pioneer dropped 4.3 percent to 314 yen at the 3 p.m. close
of Tokyo trading, the biggest decline since Sept. 12, after
earlier tumbling as much as 9.5 percent. Camera-maker Nikon fell
3.5 percent, compared with a 0.4 percent decline on the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  The worst floods in more than 50 years crippled operations
of Japanese companies in Thailand, an overseas production hub.
The deluge forced  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to temporarily close three
factories in its biggest Asian manufacturing base outside Japan,
while Nikon halted its largest facility for making cameras with
interchangeable lenses.  “These production halts may lead to supply chain
problems,” said  Mitsuo Shimizu , an analyst at Cosmo Securities
Co. in Tokyo. “The damage for manufacturers of autos,
electronics and parts seems to be very severe.”  The Thai plants are among Pioneer’s main facilities for car
electronics, spokesman Hiromitsu Kimura said by phone today.  Nikon hasn’t been able to determine when it can resume
operations at the flooded plant in Ayutthaya, the company’s
biggest manufacturing base for single-lens reflex cameras,
Yasuyuki Takeda, a Tokyo-based spokesman, said by phone today.  SLR Cameras  Nikon’s inventory of SLR cameras will probably last for
about a month and the effect on earnings would be negligible
should the company resume the plant’s operation within a month,
 Hisashi Moriyama , a JPMorgan analyst in Tokyo, said in a report
dated yesterday.  Suspensions lasting two months could cut Nikon’s revenue by
30 billion yen and operating profit by 5 billion yen to 10
billion yen, he said.  Sony Corp. (6758)  halted operations at its plant for digital
cameras in Ayutthaya, spokesman Hirofumi Otsuru said today. The
company suspended output at the plant yesterday and plans to
wait at least until Oct. 14 before restarting, he said.  ON Semiconductor Corp. (ONNN) , a U.S.-based maker of chips that
help computers manage power, expects “some loss of revenue” in
the fourth quarter and into 2012 after suspending production at
its Sanyo Semiconductor unit in Thailand, it said in a statement
yesterday. The subsidiary accounts for as much as 10 percent of
ON Semiconductor’s total production, the company said.  Toshiba Corp. has suspended production at eight of its
factories, two of which make chips and hard disks, as of today,
spokeswoman Kaori Hiraki said.  Toyota Closures  Toyota, which made 630,000 vehicles in  Thailand  last year,
is still assessing the cost of the floods, Amiko Tomita, a
spokeswoman for the carmaker, said today. The Toyota city,
Japan-based company plans to close its Thai factories through
Oct. 15 and is considering shipping parts to Thailand from other
countries to alleviate a shortage caused by the floods, she
said.  “As we saw after the earthquake and tsunami in March, even
if one part is missing, car production can become entirely
suspended,” said Issei Takahashi, an analyst in Tokyo at Credit
Suisse Group AG. “The flood may cost about 20 to 25 billion yen
for the entire  auto industry .”  Thailand’s auto production forecast will probably have to
be cut from 1.8 million units given the lost output from the
disaster, Surapong Paisitpatnapong, spokesman for the Thai
Automotive Industry Club, said today by phone from Bangkok.  Honda Production  Honda Motor Co.,  Japan ’s third-biggest automaker, may lose
production of an estimated 4,500 vehicles because of plant
closures, while Pioneer plans to suspend operations at its two
plants for two weeks, the companies said in the past two days.  Thailand is Honda’s biggest production base in  Southeast
Asia , and the second biggest in Asia outside of Japan. In 2010,
it produced about 170,000 units in the country. The carmaker
makes models including the Accord and Civic in Thailand, and
exports to  Indonesia , the  Philippines , and Malaysia from there.  “For Honda, it’s not only an issue of parts supply, so it
may take them about three months to rebuild their facilities and
recover production,” said Jessada Thongpak, an analyst
overseeing the South Asian market at IHS Automotive.  Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s second-biggest carmaker with
capacity to make 220,000 units a year in Thailand, has not
received any damage at its plants, Chris Keeffe, spokesman for
the company, said today.  “Operations will continue as normal until Thursday, after
that we will assess whether to continue operations on Friday,”
Keeffe said.  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. plans to suspend production in
Thailand from Oct. 13 to Oct. 15, spokesman Shigeru Jibiki said
by phone today.  While the automaker’s facilities have not been damaged,
deliveries of parts from some suppliers have been delayed, he
said. The company expects production to be cut by 1,500 units.  Hitachi Ltd.’s plant that makes compressors for
refrigerators was halted from Oct. 7, spokesman Yuichi Izumisawa
said. Hitachi Metals Ltd., a unit of the Tokyo-based electronics
maker, also halted two plants making components used in hard
disks and autos, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in 東京 at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in  Tokyo  at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  