-- 
Plosser Says Fed ‘Struggling’ With How to Boost Transparency

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-10-12T20:02:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/plosser-says-fed-struggling-with-how-to-boost-transparency.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said today that policy makers are
struggling to decide how to improve transparency, and he doesn’t
see them resolving the issue at next month’s meeting.  The Fed in  Washington  today released minutes of the Sept.
20-21 session, which shows most participants favored giving more
information on the central bank’s goals and how they influence
its decisions. Most “saw advantages” in tying the Fed’s near-
zero interest rates to more-specific developments in the
economy. Such changes may be expressed in ways other than the
post-meeting statement, the Fed said.  Plosser, speaking to reporters in Philadelphia shortly
after the minutes were released, said policy makers “haven’t
agreed” on how to better articulate their goals, which is why
the minutes didn’t specify what form additional communication
would take.  “It’s us struggling with how we want to frame that
discussion,” Plosser said.  He said the discussion isn’t likely to be resolved at the
next Federal Open Market Committee meeting in November.  The Fed could make it clearer how its policies depend on
inflation, inflation expectations and resource utilization, he
said. Some Fed officials support incorporating the Taylor Rule,
which measures where the policy interest rate should be set
based on inflation and growth, he said.  “I’ve always been a proponent for many years of a more
systematic approach to policy and making our reaction function
clearer,” Plosser said. “There are various ways you can do
that,” and “almost any way involves some sort of inflation
objective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  