-- 
Porsche SE Seeks 3.5 Billion-Euro Credit Line as Rebound Pares Loan Costs

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-10-12T12:58:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/porsche-se-seeks-3-5-billion-euro-credit-line-company-spokesman-says.html
Porsche SE, the holding company
that owns 51 percent of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s common shares, said it’s
seeking a 3.5 billion-euro ($4.8 billion)  credit line .  Part of the deal will be used to replace older loans,
according to Frank Gaube, a spokesman for the Stuttgart,
Germany-based automaker. The two-year loans are being offered to
lenders with an interest margin of 170 basis points more than
the euro interbank offered rate, according to bankers with
knowledge of the deal.  The maker of the 911 sports car is seeking to pare its loan
costs to capitalize on a rebound in spending on luxury brands,
the bankers said. The new loans will replace the remainder of an
8.5 billion-euro deal agreed in November 2009 that cost Porsche
400 basis points more than Euribor, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  September deliveries increased 37.5 percent, Porsche AG
said today. Third-quarter earnings may be reduced by about 1.6
billion euros because of the revaluation of the holding
company’s remaining stake in its car-making operations, a person
familiar with the matter said Sept. 9  Deutsche Bank AG and Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg are
leading the new loan, which includes 2 billion euros of term
financing, Gaube said in a telephone interview.  Porsche and VW abandoned plans to complete a merger by the
end of this year as lawsuits left them unable to agree on
Porsche’s value, they said Sept. 8. The two companies agreed to
merge after Porsche racked up 10 billion euros in debt in its
failed effort to gain control of Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  