-- 
Portugal’s Cavaco Says ECB Must Do More to Fight Debt Crisis

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-10-12T16:02:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/portugal-s-cavaco-says-ecb-must-do-more-to-fight-debt-crisis.html
Portuguese President Anibal Cavaco Silva said the  European Central Bank  has to do more to end the
sovereign-debt crisis that has stretched over two years.  “The exceptional situation of real emergency that we have
reached requires more from the ECB,” Cavaco Silva said in a
speech today in Florence,  Italy . “A wider and more foreseeable
intervention is necessary in the sovereign debt market of the
solvent countries that face problems of liquidity, including the
availability for an unlimited intervention in the secondary
market. The threats to the euro zone do not recommend that we
remain tied to restrictive interpretations of the regulations of
the Economic and Monetary Union.”  The European Financial Stability Facility, or EFSF, must be
strengthened, Cavaco Silva said at the European University
Institute. The ECB and the EFSF’s operations must be tied to
strict conditions to ensure that nations comply with budgetary
and structural policies, he said, adding that European banks
also must be recapitalized.  The resignations of former Bundesbank President  Axel Weber 
and of Juergen Stark from the ECB’s Executive Board this year
laid bare German opposition to the ECB’s program of buying the
bonds of debt-strapped euro-area nations such as Greece and
Italy. Current Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann also opposed
restarting of the bond purchases in August as the debt crisis
threatened to engulf Italy.  Portugal  in April became the third euro-area country to
seek a bailout after Greece and Ireland. It will receive 78
billion euros ($108 billion) under the agreement with the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union. ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on April 7 said the central bank
“encouraged” Portugal to seek aid, adding that the country’s
banks needed to reduce their reliance on ECB funding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 