-- 
Pratt Purchases Rolls-Royce Stake in IAE for $1.5 Billion

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-10-13T19:09:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/pratt-whitney-pays-1-5-billion-for-rolls-royce-venture-stake.html
Pratt & Whitney will pay $1.5
billion to buy out  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) ’s share of one
aircraft-engine venture while the companies form a separate
partnership to power midsize jets.  Rolls-Royce also will receive an undisclosed payment for 15
years for each hour flown by planes now equipped with V2500
engines as it leaves the alliance,  International Aero Engines ,
the companies said in statements yesterday.  The new venture will focus on supplying engines for jets
seating 120 to 230 people, with equal stakes for each company.
The partners sued each other in 2010 for patent infringement
over a larger Pratt & Whitney engine and reached an impasse on
marketing another model for the Airbus SAS A320 jets in the
earlier alliance.  “This shows a change in relationship between Rolls and
Pratt,” said  Howard Rubel , a Jefferies & Co. analyst in  New
York . “The antagonism of six months ago is clearly gone,
otherwise a deal like this couldn’t have happened.”  Pratt & Whitney, which is a unit of  United Technologies
Corp. (UTX)  and is based in  East Hartford , Connecticut, will continue
its partnership in the older venture with  Germany ’s MTU Aero
Engines AG and Japanese Aero Engines Corp. Pratt and London-
based Rolls-Royce hope those partners also will join the new
undertaking, executives said yesterday on a conference call.  ‘Unified Approach’  With Pratt & Whitney as majority owner of International
Aero Engines, the existing alliance “will be able to offer
customers a unified approach” to supplying engines for the A320
and A320neo planes, said Todd Kallman, president of the
company’s commercial engines unit.  The companies had divergent views on the Pratt & Whitney
geared turbofan engine that will power the A320neo variant
starting in 2015. That plane and the older A320 compete with
 Boeing Co. (BA) ’s single-aisle 737, the world’s most widely flown
jetliner.  “We’ve found a way we can continue to partner with Pratt &
Whitney while not investing industrially in the neo, and I think
it’s a perfect solution,” Mark King, Rolls-Royce’s president of
civil aerospace, said on the call. Rolls-Royce will continue to
build parts for the V2500 engines.  The new engines will compete in a market segment expected
to require 20,000 new aircraft over the next 20 years, King
said. He said the engine makers share a common view of
technology needs for future jet models.  Industry Competitors  Pratt & Whitney’s competitors in that market include CFM, a
venture between France’s  Safran SA (SAF)  and  General Electric Co. (GE) , the
world’s largest maker of  jet engines . Jamie Jewell, a CFM
spokesman, declined to comment on the new engine alliance.  Rubel, who has a “buy” rating on United Technologies,
said the new partnership will eliminate differences over
marketing between Pratt & Whitney and Rolls-Royce, smooth the
U.S. company’s transition to the next generation of engines, and
provide years of future spare-parts sales.  The venture will “better align the companies to compete
against the GE/Safran partnership, which currently has
approximately 75 percent market share in the narrow-body
market,” Carter Copeland, a Barclays Plc analyst in New York,
said in a note to clients today. Copeland has an “overweight”
rating on Rolls-Royce and United Technologies.  Pratt & Whitney  will pay for Rolls-Royce’s share of the
earlier venture with cash now held outside the U.S., said Katy Padgett, a spokeswoman.  The transaction “unlocks trapped overseas cash,” Rubel
said. King said Rolls-Royce will use the $1.5 billion for
“normal corporate purposes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  