-- 
‘Occupy Wall Street’ Protesters Target London Stock Exchange in Next Rally

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-10-13T00:05:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/protesters-to-occupy-london-stock-exchange.html
Protesters are preparing to set up
camp outside the London Stock Exchange, expanding Occupy Wall
Street demonstrations that began in  New York .  About 4,000 people have signaled their intent to attend a
peaceful demonstration that will start at noon on Oct. 15, Kai
Wargalla, one of the organizers of  Occupy London Stock Exchange ,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. The group plans to mass
in  Paternoster Square , close to the London offices of both Bank
of America Corp. in King Edward Street and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  on Fleet Street.  Occupy Wall Street rallies started last month in New York’s
financial district, where people have been staying in  Lower
Manhattan ’s Zuccotti Park to protest inequality and advocate
higher taxes for the wealthy.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Executive
Officer Vikram Pandit, 54, said he would be happy to talk with
participants, saying their sentiments are “completely
understandable.”  “We are protesting against social and financial
injustices,” said Wargalla, a student, who declined to give
further information about her background. “If you look at the
financial sector and the political and regulatory system they
don’t work for us, the common man.”  Tom Gilbert, a spokesman for London-based LSE, said the
exchange was aware of the protest and had no further comment.  Park Cleanup  New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  visited with
protesters yesterday and informed them that Brookfield
Properties, which owns Zuccotti Park, plans to clean it
tomorrow.  “The mayor is a strong believer in the First Amendment and
believes that the protesters have a right to continue to
protest,” Cas Holloway, deputy mayor for operations, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “At the same time, the last
three weeks have created unsanitary conditions and considerable
wear and tear on the park. This situation is not in the best
interests of the protesters, residents or the city.”  Protesters may return to areas that have been cleaned
“provided they abide by the rules that Brookfield has
established for the park,” Holloway said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  