-- 
Galleon’s Rajaratnam Should Be Jailed After Sentencing, Prosecutors Say

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-10-12T22:41:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/rajaratnam-should-be-jailed-after-sentencing-prosecutors-say.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder
Raj Rajaratnam shouldn’t be granted bail pending appeal after
he’s sentenced tomorrow for  insider trading , prosecutors said,
because he has millions of dollars and could flee the U.S.  Prosecutors said that Rajaratnam has failed to prove that
he isn’t a flight risk and hasn’t refuted their argument that he
has substantial ties outside the U.S., including Sri Lanka where
he was born. Rajaratnam, 54, who is a naturalized U.S. citizen,
also retains his Sri Lankan citizenship. He has also said that
he “brought” all of his money to the U.S., prosecutors said.  While the government has said it opposes bail pending
appeal, prosecutors also said today they have told his lawyers
they won’t object if Rajaratnam surrenders shortly after his
sentencing and goes directly to the facility to which he is
designated by the U.S. Bureau of Prisons. Prosecutors said that
prison authorities have informed them it will take 21 days for
them to process his designation to a federal prison.  “Accordingly, should Rajaratnam flee to Sri Lanka or
elsewhere, he would have access to tens of millions of dollars
by the mere touch of a keystroke and thus could use that money
to live abroad,” Assistant  Manhattan  U.S. Attorneys Jonathan Streeter,  Reed Brodsky  and Andrew Michaelson said.  Securities Fraud  Rajaratnam, who was convicted in May of 14 counts of
securities fraud and conspiracy, is scheduled to be sentenced
tomorrow before U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in
Manhattan.  Prosecutors, saying he made $72 million from his crimes,
have asked for a prison term of 19 years and seven months to 24
1/2 years, which Rajaratnam’s lawyers called “grotesquely
severe.” Defense lawyers said that he only made $7.4 million
while trading at Galleon.  The government said today that Rajaratnam’s argument that
federal wiretap statutes don’t authorize the use of wiretaps to
intercept insider trading was “meritless,” and told Holwell
that he has already ruled that the use of wiretaps were properly
used against the fund manager.  Prosecutors said they won’t be able to extradite Rajaratnam
if he fled to  Sri Lanka  and that in the 22 years that there has
been a treaty between the  U.S. and Sri Lanka, “not a single
citizen of that country has been extradited by Sri Lanka to face
prosecution.”  Pending Appeal  Rajaratnam has argued in court papers that he should remain
free pending his appeal, citing several white collar defendants
who were sentenced in federal court in New York, including
WorldCom Inc. chairman Bernard Ebbers and Adelphia
Communications Corp. founder  John Rigas .  Ebbers and Rigas were permitted to remain free pending
appeal. Ebbers was sentenced to 25 years in prison for an $11
billion fraud while Rigas was sentenced to serve 12 years in
prison after being convicted of  securities fraud  for looting the
company and lying about its finances.  Prosecutors said today that in Rigas’s case, U.S. District
Judge Leonard Sand in New York found “unique” circumstances in
the case to allow him to remain free until his conviction was
upheld by a federal appeals court. In the case of Ebbers,
prosecutors said all of his remaining cash had been taken by the
U.S. and that he didn’t have strong ties abroad.  Kathryn Holmes Johnson, a spokeswoman for Rajaratnam’s
lawyer  John Dowd , declined to comment on the government’s
filing.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 