-- 
Rambus Jury Asks to Review Testimony in Hynix-Micron Trial

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-10-12T23:15:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/rambus-jury-asks-to-review-testimony-in-hynix-micron-trial.html
The jury deliberating whether  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  conspired to push
Rambus Inc. out of the memory-chip market asked to review trial
testimony by Michael Sadler, a Micron vice president.  Today’s request by the San Francisco state court jury,
which finished its 11th day of deliberations at 4 p.m. local
time, is the second time the 12-member panel has sent a note to
the judge asking to see Sadler’s testimony. The first request
was on Sept. 29.  During the trial, which started June 8, Rambus lawyers
showed the jury video testimony of Sadler saying that he ceased
e-mail communications about chip pricing in 2002 because Micron
received a U.S.  Justice Department  subpoena as part of a price-
fixing investigation. Sadler is vice president of corporate
development at Micron.  Rambus, based in Sunnyvale,  California , contends that
Boise, Idaho-based Micron and Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix
colluded to cut the prices of their own memory chips and
deserted their commitment to produce a Rambus-designed chip,
relegating it to a niche role.  Rambus contends it would have earned $3.95 billion in
royalties without the alleged conspiracy. Under California law,
a jury finding of damages in that amount would be automatically
tripled to $11.9 billion.  Lawyers for Hynix and Micron argued that Rambus has only
itself to blame, not collusion by rivals, for the failure of its
product to become the industry standard.  Price Fixing Probe  Hynix, in 2005, and some of its employees pleaded guilty to
U.S. charges of fixing prices of some chips. A Hynix lawyer told
the jury in the current trial that Rambus-designed dynamic
random access memory chips weren’t among the products cited in
admissions of wrongdoing in the criminal case.  In March 2008, Gary Swanson, a Hynix senior vice president
and the first executive to face trial in the federal probe, won
dismissal of criminal price-fixing charges after a jury failed
to reach a unanimous verdict.  In that case, in which at least a dozen other defendants
pleaded guilty, prosecutors argued that Swanson directed his
sales staff to gather pricing information from competitors so
chipmakers could agree to simultaneously raise prices for Apple
Inc., Dell Inc., International Business Machines Corp. and other
U.S. companies.  The  San Francisco  jury in the federal price-fixing probe
was shown e-mails to and from Swanson, his bosses and his sales
staff, and evidence of 55 phone calls in 2000 and 2001 between
Swanson and Micron’s Sadler. Sadler, granted immunity by the
government, testified against Swanson during the nine-day trial.  Specific Prices  Swanson testified that price decisions were made by his
superiors in  Korea  and said he never talked about specific
prices with Sadler or asked his staff to gather specific price
information. Sadler and Swanson discussed general industry
trends such as chip supply and demand and also talked about
Micron’s discussions to acquire Hynix, Swanson told the jury.  Micron avoided prosecution in the price-fixing probe by
cooperating with the Justice Department.  Rambus rose 1.75 percent to $15.68 in New York trading.  The case currently in trial is  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  v. Micron
Technology Inc., 04-0431105, California Superior Court (San
Francisco). The criminal case against Swanson is U.S. v. Gary
Swanson, 06-692, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  