-- 
Rand Gains as Minister Gordhan Says Nation May Use Reserves to Ease Market

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-10-12T15:12:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/rand-gains-as-minister-gordhan-says-nation-may-use-reserves-to-ease-market.html
The rand surged to a two-week high
against the dollar after South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  indicated the government may intervene in the foreign-
exchange market to reduce swings in the currency.  The rand appreciated as much as 1.9 percent to 7.7684 per
dollar, its strongest level since Sept. 29, and traded 1.5
percent up at 7.7951 as of 4:35 p.m. in Johannesburg. Against
the euro, the rand advanced 0.3 percent to 10.7610.  South Africa  has sufficient foreign-currency reserves “to
ease temporary market stress in response to global market
turmoil,” Gordhan said in a written reply to lawmakers
circulated today. The government will consider its options if
financial market conditions require it to intervene, he said in
an interview in Johannesburg today, suggesting a departure from
a policy of non-intervention in the market.  “It makes sense for them to sell dollars in times of rand
volatility,”  Leon Myburgh , a Johannesburg-based analyst at
Citigroup Inc., said by e-mail in response to questions from
Bloomberg. “The question is when will they do that? I would
argue only in periods of extreme rand weakness.”  The central bank has boosted gross gold and foreign-
currency reserves to $49.7 billion at the end of September, up
from $34.4 billion two years earlier, to moderate gains in the
rand and improve the competitiveness of exports. Concerns that
the European debt crisis will stall the global economic recovery
led investors to sell riskier, emerging-market assets, causing
the rand to drop 12 percent in the past three months.  Rand Level  “If there’s a volatile environment that requires us to
intervene, then we will have to consider all our options,”
Gordhan said.  The South African  Reserve Bank , which accumulates foreign-
exchange reserves and deposits some of them with the National
Treasury, doesn’t target a level for the rand, Governor  Gill Marcus  told lawmakers at a separate briefing. The central bank
won’t intervene to strengthen or weaken the rand, she said on
Sept. 22.  The central bank has deposited about $8 billion with the
Treasury, which could be used to bolster the rand, Myburgh said.
The government did not sell dollars in September, when the rand
plunged to a two-year low against the dollar, suggesting it is
comfortable with the currency at current levels, he said.  “If we have a worse-case scenario, which will impact the
Reserve Bank’s growth outlook, and the rand blows out, obviously
then you would need to intervene to shore up your currency,”
Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, a currency strategist at Rand Merchant
Bank in Johannesburg, said by phone.  Rand Gains Extended  The rand’s extended gains as European plans to tackle its
sovereign-debt crisis helped ease concern for the global
economic recovery. European Commission President  Jose Barroso 
later today presents proposals on bank recapitalization after
Germany and  France  pledged to draw up a plan by November.  “The event risk from  Europe  and the U.S. this week is low,
and portfolio flows into the rand have recovered,” Ramkhelawan-
Bhana said.  Foreign investors bought a net 2.9 billion rand ($371
million) of South African equities and bonds in the first two
days of this week, adding to 1.6 billion of purchases last week,
according to JSE Ltd. data.  South African 10-year bond yields dropped five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 8.03 percent at 4:03 p.m.
in Johannesburg, the lowest since Sept. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  