-- 
Transocean Sued by U.S. Agency Over Gulf-Rig Blast Subpoenas

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-10-12T23:43:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/transocean-unit-sued-by-u-s-agency-probing-bp-s-gulf-well-blowout-spill.html
A  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  unit was sued by a
U.S. agency for its allegedly inadequate response to requests
for information related to the April 2010 sinking of the
Deepwater Horizon oil drilling rig in the  Gulf of Mexico .  Transocean Deepwater Drilling didn’t fully comply with “38
of 39 specific demands” in five subpoenas issued between Nov.
24, 2010, and April 7, 2011, Donald Holmstrom, an investigator
for the  U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board ,
said in a sworn statement filed today in Houston federal court.
The board is seeking to force the drilling contractor to comply
with its requests.  The Deepwater Horizon exploded and sank while drilling a
well for  BP Plc (BP/)  off the Louisiana coast, killing 11 workers and
causing the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history. The board
has been investigating the incident since June 2010.  “Transocean’s ongoing failure to provide information has
impeded and delayed the CSB’s critical safety inquiry,”
Holmstrom said.  Transocean “produced a number of responsive documents”
under subpoenas issued by the board between July and August
2010, Holmstrom said. When the agency sought additional
documents and answers to “11 specific interrogatories,”
Transocean either refused to respond or provided an insufficient
response, he said.  ‘No Jurisdiction’  Lou Colasuonno, a spokesman for Vernier, Switzerland-based
Transocean, said the company’s lawyers advised the CSB in July
of its position that the Deepwater Horizon investigation should
be left to the U.S. Coast Guard.  “The Chemical Safety Board has no jurisdiction over marine
spills,” Colasuonno said in a phone interview.  Holmstrom said the information is “critical” to the
board’s analysis of the blast.  “Transocean’s production of information in compliance with
these subpoenas is required to evaluate Transocean’s internal
safety culture, managerial decision making and incident response
mechanisms,” he said. “The CSB also seeks information from
Transocean to determine what role human factors may have played
in the events leading up to the blowout and explosion.”  Any move to force Transocean to comply with the subpoena
would bring a formal challenge to “the CSB’s authority and
jurisdiction to investigate this matter,” Rachel Clingman, a
company lawyer, said in a July 13 letter to the CSB, which
Colasuonno provided.  While Transocean shared some incident information with the
board as a courtesy, “the company will continue to refrain from
formally responding” to CSB subpoenas, Clingman said.  The case is U.S. v. Transocean Deepwater Drilling Inc.,
4:11-cv-3638, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas 
(Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  