-- 
RBA’s Ellis Says Regulators Need Flexibility to Manage Risk

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-12T22:50:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/rba-s-ellis-says-regulators-need-flexibility-to-manage-risk.html
Regulators should focus on
preventing their economies from overheating and remain flexible
to respond to emerging risks in the financial system, a  Reserve
Bank  of  Australia  official said.  “Avoidance of damaging credit cycles starts with
management of the business cycle,” Luci Ellis, head of
financial stability at the RBA, said in prepared remarks in
Sydney today. “The quickest way to create a damaging credit
boom is to run your economy too hot.”  Recent examples, including Australia’s concern about some
“synthetic” exchange-traded funds overseas, “show the value
of having flexible, principles-based regulatory frameworks, not
a legalistic set of rules that encourage a box-ticking frame of
mind,” Ellis said.  Regulators focused solely on compliance with existing rules
will always be “playing catch-up,” Ellis told the Paul Woolley
Conference. “I’m glad to say that narrow, box-ticking cultures
are not what we see in the Australian regulators.”      Ellis,
who didn’t directly address monetary policy or the state of the
economy in her speech, also said a floating  exchange rate  like
Australia’s plays a “positive role” in allowing officials to
manage economic policy in the context of domestic circumstances.  Australian banks face slower credit growth and weaker asset
quality than prior to the global credit crunch sparked by the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, the RBA said
last month in its financial stability review.  While the nation’s lenders are better placed to cope with
market shocks than three years ago, the proportion of non-
performing assets on their balance sheets remains close to its
recent peak, the report said.  The RBA boosted its rate seven times from October 2009 to
November 2010, tempering a rise in consumer debt, which more
than tripled in the past 20 years to 153.7 percent of disposable
income in the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  