-- 
RBA’s Debelle Says High-Frequency Trades May Reduce Liquidity Amid Stress

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-12T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/rba-s-debelle-says-high-frequency-trades-may-reduce-liquidity-amid-stress.html
High-frequency trading, in which
firms use computers to buy and sell thousands of times
securities a second, may reduce liquidity amid market stress,
 Reserve Bank  of Australia Assistant Governor  Guy Debelle  said.  “While liquidity is improved in normal times, HFT is
causing changes in the ecology of the market which result in a
worsening of liquidity in stressed circumstances,” Debelle said
in prepared remarks for a speech in Sydney today.  High-frequency traders came under increased regulatory
scrutiny following the so-called flash crash in May of last
year, during which the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost
almost 1,000 points. Debelle chaired a Bank for International
Settlements study group that examined such trading in  currency
markets , in particular around the Dow Jones incident and when
the yen soared in March of this year.  “The general sense of the evidence from May 2010 is that
HFT participants were very active in the foreign-exchange market
before, during and after the time of the flash crash,” Debelle
told the ACI High Frequency Trading Conference.  “However, while they were present, it is an open question
about the quality of the liquidity being provided,” he said.
“This episode also supports the proposition that while not
necessarily being the initiator of the shock, HFT can propagate
a shock brought on by a rogue or poorly specified (non-HFT)
algorithm.”  Yen Movements  In examining the yen on March 17, when the currency jumped
4.5 percent in 26 minutes, Debelle said there were indications
that HFT traders acted in similar fashion to traditional
participants who withdrew from the market.  The European Union is planning to impose limits on high-
frequency trading firms to prevent a glut of trades from
“overloading the systems of trading venues,” generating
“erroneous orders” or “otherwise malfunctioning” in a way
that may create a disorderly market, according to a draft
version of the measures scheduled to be formally proposed later
this month.  Debelle also said discussions with participants in the
market suggest that “diminishing returns to speed” have well
and truly set in, such that the value of future gains may not be
worth the investment cost.  “Indeed, there was a general sense that HFT was reaching a
mature phase, where greater returns were more likely to be had
from moving into new market segments rather than spending more
on enhancing speed,” he said.  Debelle, assistant governor responsible for financial
markets, said his speech was based on a recent report by the
Markets Committee of the BIS that presented the results of a
study group he chaired consisting of foreign-exchange market
experts from 14 central banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  