-- 
Treasury Didn’t Review Solyndra Rescue Effort, Memo Shows

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-10-12T21:55:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/treasury-wasn-t-involved-with-solyndra-rescue-effort-memo-shows.html
Treasury Department officials told
U.S. congressional investigators they weren’t “directly
involved” in the Obama administration’s failed effort to rescue
Solyndra LLC this year.  A Republican investigation of the solar panel maker’s $535
million loan guarantee has shifted to the restructuring of its
original loan agreement in February, putting taxpayers behind
$75 million in private investment in case of liquidation.  The deal, which Energy Department officials have said was a
last-ditch effort to save Solyndra, will be the subject of an
Oct. 14 House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing, the third
since the company’s Sept. 6 bankruptcy filing two years after
winning the loan guarantee.  A memo from the Republican staff to the committee’s
investigations panel, released today after a meeting with
Treasury officials, suggests the Energy Department may not have
satisfied conditions of a Dec. 4, 2009, rule before
renegotiating the agreement.  Department officials should consult with both the Treasury
and the Office of Management and Budget before approving a
“deviation that would constitute a substantial change in the
financial terms of the loan guarantee agreement,” according to
the rule cited in the memo.  Republicans asked Gary Grippo, the Treasury’s deputy
assistant secretary for fiscal operations and policy, and Gary Burner, chief financial officer of the  Federal Financing Bank ,
to testify at the hearing. The bank provided Solyndra with cash
that was guaranteed by the Energy Department.  Waxman, DeGette Request  Democratic Representatives Henry Waxman of  California  and
Diana DeGette of  Colorado  wrote Representative  Cliff Stearns , a
Florida Republican and chairman of the investigations
subcommittee, asking that the Energy Department also be
represented at the hearing.  Department “lawyers looked closely at the legal authority
issues,” Waxman and DeGette said in a letter today. The panel
should have Energy Department representatives “at the witness
table” to understand the communications with the Treasury and
the department’s analysis on subordinating the loan, the said.  Stearns should consider postponing the hearing if an Energy
Department official isn’t available by Oct. 14, the lawmakers
said.  Restructuring Scrutinized  Administration e-mails turned over in response to requests
from congressional investigators have drawn scrutiny to the
restructured financing agreement.  Republicans have said the new agreement violated the 2005
loan guarantee law by subordinating taxpayer debt. Energy
officials have said the law gives the secretary broad discretion
to revamp the terms of the guarantee.  The memo cites a Feb. 10 e-mail from Burner to Susan
Richardson, general counsel of the Energy loan programs office,
and Frances Nwachuku, director of  portfolio management  in the
office, saying the  Justice Department  may need to be consulted
on the legality of the restructuring.  Nwachuku replied that there may be a “gross
misunderstanding of the outcome of the restructuring.” The e-
mails show the issue was further discussed in a phone call,
without indicating how it was resolved.  Mary Miller , assistant secretary for financial markets,
wrote in an August 2011 e-mail that she expects “DoE has a view
about why loan subordination can occur without DOJ approval or
Treasury consultation, I wanted to correct any impression that
we have acquiesced to date.”  By then, Solyndra was seeking a second restructuring. The
Energy Department denied the request on Aug. 30. Solyndra
announced it was closing the next day. It fired 1,100 workers,
filed for  bankruptcy protection , and is the subject of an FBI
fraud investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  