-- 
Treasuries Tumble as Europe Optimism Damps Demand at 10-Year Note Auction

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-10-12T21:04:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/treasuries-tumble-as-u-s-auctions-10-year-notes-wagers-rise-on-europe.html
Treasury 10-year note yields rose to
the highest level in six weeks as optimism European leaders will
be able to contain the region’s debt crisis reduced the haven
appeal of the securities at today’s $21 billion auction.  U.S. government bonds are off to the worst monthly start
this year after completing the strongest quarter since 2008 amid
rising appetite for higher-risk assets. The bid-to-cover ratio
on today’s auction, which gauges demand by comparing total bids
with the amount of securities offered, was 2.86, the lowest
since November 2010. The European Union outlined plans to
recapitalize banks and halt the debt crisis, and stocks climbed.  “The lack of demand underscored that there is momentum
behind the selloff in Treasuries and the move to riskier
assets,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, which oversees $12
billion in fixed-income assets. “The hopeful resolution of
European credit woes is allowing some of the safety bid to come
out of the market.”  Benchmark 10-year yields rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 2.21 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched 2.27
percent, the highest level since Sept. 1, after falling on Sept.
23 to a record low 1.6714 percent. The price of the 2.125
percent securities due in August 2021 dropped 17/32, or $5.31
per $1,000 face amount, to 99 1/4.  Yields on 30-year bonds increased 10 basis points to 3.20
percent and touched 3.25 percent, the highest since Sept. 20, as
the securities dropped for a sixth day in the longest losing
streak since May 2007.  Third-Quarter Gain  Treasuries have lost 0.97 percent this month after
returning 6.46 percent from June through September, the most
since the final quarter of 2008 during the financial crisis,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  Thirty-year yields have advanced 25 basis points since Oct.
6, the day before a Labor Department report showed U.S. payrolls
added 103,000 jobs in September, more than economists predicted.
Analysts project a 0.7 percent gain in retail sales for
September, a Bloomberg News survey showed before the government
reports the data on Oct. 14.  Today’s auction drew a 2.271 percent yield, the highest
since July, compared with the average forecast of 2.231 percent
in a Bloomberg News survey of eight of the  Federal Reserve ’s 22
primary dealers. The previous offering of 10-year notes, on
Sept. 13, drew a record low yield of 2 percent.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 35 percent of the notes at today’s
auction, the lowest level since February 2010. Direct bidders,
non-primary-dealer investors that place their bids directly with
the Treasury, bought 6.4 percent, compared with an average of
10.6 percent at the past 10 auctions.  30-Year Auction  The Treasury sold $32 billion of three-year securities
yesterday and will sell $13 billion of 30-year bonds tomorrow.
The entire amount raised this week is new cash, with none of the
proceeds dedicated to redeeming maturing securities, according
to the Treasury Department.  “The 30-year is always the wild card,” said Jason Rogan,
director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC,
a New York-based brokerage for institutional investors.
“There’s a lot of confidence brewing out of a potential deal in
 Europe . There’s also the realization by the market that the U.S.
is not going into a double-dip recession, which a week ago was a
very big concern.”  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  called for a
reinforcement of banks hit by the euro region’s sovereign debt
crisis and a faster start for a permanent rescue fund.  ‘Coordinated Approach’  Speaking to the European Parliament in Brussels, Barroso
also called for the payout of a sixth loan to  Greece . He urged a
“coordinated approach” to deliver a “significantly higher
capital ratio of highest quality capital” for banks, while
offering government funds only as a last resort.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1 percent.  Treasuries remained lower as minutes released by the Fed
showed some officials last month wanted to keep further asset
purchases as an option to boost the economy. The Fed previously
bought $2.35 trillion of assets in two rounds of quantitative
easing to spur the economy.  Minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Sept. 20-21
meeting showed debate among policy makers culminated in the
decision to replace $400 billion of Treasuries in the central
bank’s portfolio with longer-term debt to cut borrowing costs
and support the economy.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the program, called
Operation Twist after a similar effort in the 1960s, is a
“significant step but not a game changer” for reviving
economic growth and reducing unemployment stuck near 9 percent.  ‘Tone of Contention’  “The tone of contention among Fed members is going to
continue no matter what happens in the economy going forward,”
said Thomas Simons, a government debt economist in New York at
Jefferies Group Inc., a primary dealer.  The central bank is scheduled to buy $4.3 billion to $5
billion of Treasuries tomorrow due between October 2017 and
August 2019 under Operation Twist, according to its website. It
sold $8.87 billion today of securities due in two years or less.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said the
operation won’t have a “major impact” on the speed of the
economic recovery and that he expects U.S. growth to “gradually
accelerate” to about 3 percent next year.  “Although the downside risks around this forecast are
apparent, I do not believe we are on the verge of a double-dip
recession,” Plosser said in remarks in Philadelphia today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  