-- 
TTreasury Bonds Fall for Sixth Day as Stocks Advance Before Fed Minutes

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-10-12T11:33:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/treasuries-snap-five-day-slide-as-stocks-fall-on-europe-concern.html
Treasuries fell for a sixth day,
with 30-year bonds extending their losing streak to the longest
in four years, as stocks rallied amid speculation reports this
week will ease concern the U.S. is headed for a recession.  Thirty-year yields climbed to the highest in three weeks as
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said European leaders
recognize they need to step up efforts to resolve the sovereign
debt crisis. Economists predict a report on Oct. 14 will show
U.S. retail sales increased in September by the most in six
months. The  Federal Reserve  is due to release minutes of its
last meeting. Ten-year notes dropped before a sale of $21
billion of the securities.  “We’ve had a bit of an uptick in terms of economic data,
so there’s an increasing pricing out of the double dip, which
has been feared for a while,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-
income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank
in  London . “We’ve seen yields go higher as a result.”  The 30-year yield climbed eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 3.18 percent at 7:26 a.m. in  New York ,
after reaching 3.19 percent, the most since Sept. 21. The yield
hasn’t risen for six days since the period through May 18, 2007.
The 3.75 percent bond due August 2041 fell 1 5/8, or $16.25 per
$1,000 face amount, to 110 29/32. The 10-year yield rose six
basis points to 2.21 percent.  U.S. Payrolls  Thirty-year yields have advanced 23 basis points since Oct.
6, the day before a Labor Department report showed U.S. payrolls
jumped more than economists predicted in September. Analysts are
projecting a 0.7 percent gain in retail sales for September, a
Bloomberg survey shows. Confidence among U.S. consumers rose
this month, a  University of Michigan  survey will show the same
day, according to a separate survey.  Fed policy makers kept the federal funds target rate for
overnight interbank loans in a range of zero to 0.25 percent at
their Sept. 20-21 meeting. The central bank said it will buy
$400 billion of bonds with maturities of six to 30 years through
June while selling an equal amount of debt maturing in three
years or less.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt, widened to 2.05
percentage points yesterday, the most in a month, signaling
investors are increasing wagers that consumer-price increases
will accelerate as the economy recovers.  Quarterly Gain  Demand for the safety of  U.S. debt  pushed Treasuries up 6.4
percent in the third quarter, the most since the  U.S. economy 
was in a recession in the final three months of 2008, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show. They lost 1 percent this
month, recording a similar loss to German bunds, perceived to be
Europe’s safest government securities, the indexes show.  Bunds dropped today as bids at a sale of 30-year debt
missed the maximum amount on offer and euro-region industrial
production rose. The 30-year yield increased nine basis points
to 2.90 percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
futures expiring in December both rose 0.9 percent.  “The most important problem is they have to make sure that
the major economies of  Europe  that are under pressure now are
able to borrow at affordable rates,” Geithner said yesterday in
an interview with Bloomberg Television. “They recognize the
need to do more than they’ve done so far.”  There’s a good chance of averting a European calamity,
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said. In a
pre-recorded speech to a Dublin conference today, he said
consensus on resolving Europe’s debt crisis is in the making.  The 10-year securities scheduled for sale today yielded a
record 2 percent the last time the notes were auctioned on Sept.
13. The government plans to sell $13 billion of 30-year bonds
tomorrow, following a $32 billion three-year auction yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  