-- 
Regulators Defend U.S. Fuel-Economy Rule Against Issa Criticism

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-10-12T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/regulators-defend-u-s-fuel-economy-rule-against-issa-criticism.html
U.S. regulators, under fire for a
fuel-economy proposal that some lawmakers say may result in more
deaths on the nation’s roads, are defending their plan to double
gasoline mileage for passenger vehicles.  Automakers wouldn’t sacrifice safety for size as they seek
to sell more small vehicles to boost fleet-wide fuel-economy,
National Highway Traffic Safety Administrator David Strickland
and Environmental Protection Agency officials said in testimony
prepared for a U.S. House panel hearing today.  “We absolutely will not require any manufacturer to do
anything that would have a negative effect on safety,”
Strickland said in written testimony for the House Oversight and
Government Reform subcommittee that oversees regulations.  The rule, announced in July, would require automakers to
raise the average fuel economy of the cars they sell in the U.S.
to 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025. The mandate is part of
President Barack Obama’s plan to reduce oil imports.  The proposed regulation would cut fuel costs for businesses
and consumers, according to officials’ prepared testimony.  The regulators are scheduled to testify before a panel
overseen by Representative  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican. Issa last month sent letters to the EPA
Administrator Lisa Jackson and Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, saying he is investigating the role both agencies played
in the fuel-economy rule writing.  Jeremy Anwyl , chief executive officer of auto researcher
Edmunds.com and a witness at today’s hearing, said he shares
some of the concerns of Issa and Representative  Jim Jordan , the
Ohio Republican who is chairman of the regulation subcommittee.  “There’s some questions about the sort of secret nature of
this process where a deal was struck with the industry before a
consumer comment period had been triggered,” Anwyl told
reporters in a conference call yesterday.  The agencies “are strictly adhering” to procedure while
writing the rule, Strickland said in his testimony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  