-- 
Repsol Rebuffing Pemex Spurs Foreign Bond Slump: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-10-12T21:37:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/repsol-rebuffing-pemex-spurs-slump-in-international-bonds-mexico-credit.html
Bond investors are punishing
 Petroleos Mexicanos  after its 1.1 billion-euro ($1.5 billion)
bid to gain influence in  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  backfired, undermining
the Mexican company’s efforts to stem declines in reserves.  Euro-denominated bonds due in 2017 sold by Pemex, as  Latin
America ’s biggest oil producer is known, yield 99 basis points
more than similar-maturity securities from Madrid-based Repsol,
compared with 69 a month ago, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields on the Pemex securities rose 67 basis points
to 5.10 percent, compared with a 37 basis-point increase for
Repsol yields and a 27 basis-point yield advance for euro-
denominated bonds sold by  Russia ’s OAO Gazprom.  Pemex is seeking to boost oil reserves that fell 1.4
percent from last year by tapping into Repsol’s technological
expertise in deep-water drilling. Pemex and  Sacyr Vallehermoso
SA (SYV)  agreed on Aug. 29 to coordinate their combined 29.8 percent
voting stake in Repsol to restructure the company’s management.
The move prompted Repsol to change its bylaws on Sept. 28 to
preclude rivals from holding board positions, preventing both
Pemex and Sacyr from voting.  “It’s generating noise that affects Pemex,” Miguel Angel Aguayo, a debt analyst with Banorte-Ixe Casa de Bolsa in Mexico,
said in a telephone interview. Investors are concerned that the
company is “entering legal battles,” he said.  Pemex’s dollar bonds due in 2021 yield 4.80 percent, or 114
basis points more than similar-maturity Mexican government debt,
compared with 89 a month ago, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  ‘Heavier Influence’  Pemex Chief Executive Officer  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel , 52,
said he expects to convince other Repsol shareholders that
Pemex’s goal is to improve Repsol’s value. Pemex and Sacyr,
Repsol’s largest shareholder, are seeking to split the roles of
CEO and chairman at the Spanish company. Both are currently held
by Antonio Brufau. Pemex, a founder of the Madrid-based company
in 1979, almost doubled its stake in Repsol to about 9.5 percent
with its 1.1 billion euro purchase of shares.  “Pemex would like to have a heavier influence in the
decisions and a stronger voice on the board,” Suarez Coppel
told reporters on Oct. 6 at the company’s headquarters in Mexico
City. “I never expected such a reaction. But we’re not going to
back off and go back home because they’re reacting like this.”  An e-mail message and phone message to the Pemex press
office weren’t answered. A Sacyr press official didn’t return a
phone message and an e-mail seeking comment.  “Our strategy is solid organic growth and financial
prudence,” Repsol spokesman Kristian Rix said in an e-mailed
response to questions today. “We can only hope the markets
value this.”  Production Declines  Repsol has also asked  Spain ’s energy and securities
regulators to review the agreement between Pemex and Sacyr as
part of its effort to thwart the alliance.  Pemex plans to drill five more deep-water wells this year
and eight to 10 wells in 2012 as part of its effort to stem six
straight years of production declines. Mexico estimates it may
have 30 billion barrels of oil in deep waters. Pemex has
primarily discovered gas in 15 deep-water wells drilled since
2005.  The spat with Repsol is hurting Pemex because the company
increased debt to finance the purchase of the shares, said Joe Kogan, a credit analyst at  Scotia Capital . Suarez Coppel told
reporters Sept. 1 that Pemex would finance 70 percent of the
transaction with debt, including loans from Mexican and foreign
banks.  Deepwater Drilling  “We haven’t really received a complete explanation as to
what the advantages are” of increasing the stake in Repsol,
Kogan said in a telephone interview from  New York . “Everyone
agrees that the long term is dependent on Pemex’s ability to get
oil out of areas that are hard to reach.”  Pemex says it needs technology from international  oil
companies  to develop deepwater reserves. Mexican law bans
private companies from claiming ownership of oil they discover,
blocking Pemex from creating joint ventures to explore on the
Mexican side of the  Gulf of Mexico .  Former President  Lazaro Cardenas  expropriated the assets of
international oil companies including what are now Exxon Mobil
Corp. and Chevron Corp. in the years before World War II. His
government formed Pemex and banned private investment in
Mexico’s oil industry.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed six basis points to
227 at 4:15 p.m.  Mexico  City time, according to JPMorgan’s
indexes.  Default Swaps  The peso rose 0.8 percent to 13.2874 per  U.S. dollar .  Yields on futures contracts due in December, known as TIIE,
were unchanged at 4.68 percent.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell 20 basis points today to 150, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Investors are unlikely to keep selling Pemex bonds should
the company fail in its bid to increase its influence in Repsol,
said  Juan Cruz , a corporate debt analyst at Barclays Plc.
Bondholders are more concerned about Pemex’s declining oil
production, he said.  “If this transaction doesn’t take place, it’s not the end
of the world for Pemex,” Cruz said in a telephone interview
from New York. “They’re exploring their alternatives.”  Pemex’s bonds yielded 133 basis points more than similar-
maturity Repsol debt on Oct. 4, the most since Dec. 21, 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bond Sale  Separately, the Mexican company sold $1.25 billion worth of
dollar bonds due in 2041 to yield 6.3 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. BNP Paribas SA and Deutsche Bank AG
arranged the sale.  Repsol stock has gained 17 percent in the past month in
Spain.  Jeremy Martin, an oil specialist at the Institute of the
Americas in  La Jolla ,  California , said Pemex should have
invested the money on other projects aimed at getting direct
deepwater experience instead of buying Repsol shares.  “I never really understood what they were trying to do”
with the Repsol transaction, Martin said in a telephone
interview. Pemex “could have spent less in more projects, and
more importantly could have diversified” its portfolio of
projects, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  