-- 
Restoration Hardware Channels Roosevelt Ahead of $150 Million IPO: Retail

-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 
2011-10-12T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/restoration-hardware-channels-roosevelt-ahead-of-150-million-ipo-retail.html
“Every movement has a lunatic
fringe,” blares a headline in Restoration Hardware Inc.’s 616-
page fall catalog, a reference to Theodore Roosevelt’s famous
line about anarchists.  In an accompanying essay, Chairman and Co-Chief Executive
Officer Gary Friedman -- photographed with designer stubble,
distressed jeans and a vintage leather jacket -- finds common
cause with the 26th U.S. president, an iconoclast known for his
macho, cowboy charisma.  It’s all part of Friedman’s strategy to stand out from the
crowd as the retailer prepares for an initial stock offering.
Restoration Hardware’s latest furnishings feature a fresh take
on late 19th- and early 20th-century home decor, an attempt to
differentiate itself from the 1950s and 1960s styles sold by
such rivals as  Williams-Sonoma Inc. (WSM)  and Crate & Barrel, says
Judith Russell, editor of the retail newsletter Robin Report.  “They’re definitely trendsetting,” said Russell, who is
based in New York. “They’re taking a very different route from
the furniture guys who are harking back to the mid-century stuff
that’s very popular now.”  While Restoration Hardware’s revenue rose 27 percent to
$420.4 million for the six months ended July 30 and the retailer
swung to a profit last year, the housing slump still weighs on
the home-decor sector. With new home sales falling to a six-
month low in August, and unemployment at 9.1 percent, home-goods
companies are grappling to attract shoppers -- even the wealthy
ones targeted by Restoration Hardware.  Potential Slowdown  The retail chain faces a potential “slowdown in  consumer
spending  at the high end,” said Kristine Koerber, a  New York- 
based equity research analyst at Merriman Capital Inc. “So far,
the high-end consumer has held up and we’ll just have to wait
and see if he continues to hold up.”  In mid-September, the Corte Madera, California-based
company announced plans to raise $150 million in an initial
public offering to repay debt. In the filing, Restoration
Hardware, owned by the private-equity firm Catterton Partners,
cited a “sophisticated aesthetic” as its key differentiator
and attraction for affluent shoppers. A company spokeswoman
didn’t return calls and e-mails seeking comment for this story.  With 87 stores and 10 outlet locations in the U.S. and
 Canada  as of July 30, Restoration Hardware has this year opened
stores in San Francisco’s hip SOMA district and  East Hampton ,
and took over the Williams-Sonoma Home store in  Beverly Hills .
The chain is aiming at two demographics, say analysts: high net-
worth older consumers looking to upgrade and aspirational young
professionals decorating their first home.  Hand Loomed  While the prices are comparable to Crate & Barrel’s
offerings, Restoration Hardware’s marketing puts a premium on
fabric, construction and details. The $3,495 Kensington leather
sofa features 1,500 hand-hammered brass studs and 85 buttons.
The catalog/magalog/source book is filled with paeans to old-
world luxury -- the bedding is “woven from the finest Belgian
flax;” the wool rugs are “hand loomed by master artisans.”  The strategy is promising, said Michael Dart, partner at
Kurt Salmon Associates, a retail consulting firm.  “On the high end, there’s an awful lot of dollars and a
whole lot of people looking for unique merchandise, unique
product, that’s very high quality, and they spend on it when
they find it,” said Dart, who’s based in  San Francisco .  The focus on wealthier Americans is not without risk,
however, because fluctuations in the stock market could affect
demand for tony merchandise, he said.  Garden Trolls  Founded in 1979, Restoration Hardware first went public in
1998, and Friedman joined the company in 2001 from Williams-
Sonoma, where he was the head of merchandising marketing for
eight years. When he arrived, Restoration Hardware was known as
a generic home furnishings retailer that sold everything from
dog chew toys to garden troll ornaments. The chain rode the
housing and credit boom, almost doubling revenue from 2002 to
2007.  Sales growth slowed to the single digits after the housing
market collapsed, and in 2008 Catterton Partners picked up
Restoration Hardware for about $179 million.  “There were too many niches out there, there was way too
much competition,” said Robin Report’s Russell. “They needed
to figure out what place they needed to occupy and not just be
another hardware store or Crate & Barrel or Home Depot.”  As other home retailers focused on conservative, time-proof
designs and discount prices, Restoration spent the past three
years as a private company sharpening its image. Friedman and
his team tossed unmemorable home accessories, toys and gadgets,
sold the affordable home decor brand Brocade Home, and rebranded
as an upscale home retailer with a unique style. In search of
inspiration and a defining look, Friedman and his team traveled
widely and replaced much of the furniture.  Masculine Mandate  Friedman is the driving force behind Restoration Hardware’s
new face, and if some of the furniture elements, like the $1,895
leather aviator chair set in an aluminum frame, or $1,995 metal
scissor lift transformed into a coffee table, have a strong
masculine edge to them, that’s his mandate.  Donal Brophy, 32, the Irish co-owner of the  New York  bar
and restaurant Mary Queen of Scots, was browsing the store in
 Manhattan ’s Flatiron district last week.  “The style reminds me of the rustic, cultural style I grew
up with but has a New York edge to it, it’s very masculine,”
said Brophy, who was shopping for office furniture. “It has the
whole Boardwalk Empire aesthetic that’s really in right now,”
he added, referring to the HBO prohibition-era gangster drama
starring Steve Buscemi.  Luxury Wave  Friedman is “riding two interesting waves right now: there
is a wave that is doing more remodeling versus rebuilding and
buying,” said Sherif Mityas, a partner at the A.T. Kearney
consulting firm in  Chicago . “And he is also riding an enormous
wave of luxury. And by positioning himself as more luxury, more
aspirational, he is riding two waves at once.”  The fifth-largest home goods chain by sales, Restoration
Hardware lags behind the leader, Williams-Sonoma, whose $3.1
billion in 2010 revenue dwarfed Restoration’s $896.5 million.  Staying relevant will require a constant flow of new
merchandise, Mityas said.  “Always add something new, so people are buying over
multiple years, as opposed to buying once, and then you don’t
have to go back, because it’s the same old stuff,” he said.  Friedman concludes his catalog essay by asking: “Are we
part of the ‘lunatic fringe?’ If it means, as President Roosevelt said in his speech at the Sorbonne, that ‘his place
shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know
victory nor defeat,’ then put us in that arena.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  