-- 
Richest Day in British Horse Racing Attracts Queen, $47 Million in Betting

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-10-12T23:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/richest-day-in-british-horse-racing-attracts-queen-47-million-in-betting.html
A new horse race event created to
promote the sport in the U.K. has attracted more than 30 million
pounds ($47 million) in bets, rivaled only by the final day at
 Royal Ascot  in U.K. flat racing, organizers said.  The inaugural  British Champions Day  will be held at Ascot
on Oct. 15, and Queen Elizabeth II is scheduled to attend. The
event is the climax in flat racing’s newly created  British
Champions Series .  Racing Enterprises Ltd., the commercial arm of U.K.
horseracing, last year created the series in order to broaden
racing’s appeal to younger audiences amid competition from rival
sports. Sponsored by the  Qatar International  Investment &
Projects Development Holding Co., the Champions Day has prize
money of 3 million pounds, making it the richest event in the
country’s racing history.  “The Champions Day will rival a Royal Ascot day for
turnover across the betting industry,” Kate Miller, head of
racing at U.K. bookmaker  William Hill Plc (WMH) , said in an interview.
“The new series creates a huge event to round off the season.
That in itself will create interest throughout the flat racing
season, which runs from April to October.”  It’s taken three years to get the event up and running. A
similar plan, called the 10 million-pound Sovereign Series, was
announced in 2008 but never came to fruition. Instead, the idea
evolved into the 35-event Champions Series, as the industry
asked for more racing categories to be included.  “We may not always agree on the best way of doing it, but
it is a game changer,” Simon Bazalgette, chief executive
officer of the Jockey Club, said in an interview.  Champion?  The  Jockey Club  is the largest commercial group in British
racing, and manages and operates 14 racecourses including Epsom
Downs and Aintree. It is also the largest shareholder in the
British Champions Series.  “The first thing anybody asks about any sport that you get
them engaged with is: ‘who’s the best of the best and what’s the
championship?’” Bazalgette said. “We created an umbrella that
creates that dynamic with a big climax that we didn’t have for
the flat season before.”  Frankel , rated the best racehorse in the world by the
British Horseracing Authority, will take part in the Champions
Day. The unbeaten three-year-old colt is the 2-7 favorite at
William Hill to win the one-mile Qipco  Queen Elizabeth II 
stakes. That means a successful $7 bet on the horse owned by
Prince Khalid Abdullah, a member of the Saudi royal family,
would return $2 plus the original stake.  Drastic  “The good thing is that racing didn’t have to do something
as drastic as other sports have had to do,” Bazalgette said.
“Rugby went professional and created a Premier League. Cricket
did Twenty/20. But we had to do something. We had to get people
to realize that if we didn’t do something we would just be going
into a steady decline.”  So far, the series - which started in April in Newmarket -
have been a success, the  Jockey Club  said.  The series’ broadcasting rights have been sold to 75
countries, while terrestrial television audiences have jumped by
one-third this year compared to 2010. Attendances at the 27 days
that have made up the new series prior to Champions Day at Ascot
have risen 7 percent to 688,279 spectators.  Attendance across the whole of the British racing program
rose by 3.9 percent this year, even though the U.K. economy has
struggled to recover from recession and unemployment has risen
to the highest level since 1996.  “People love their racing,” Bazalgette said. “People
like to do something that takes their mind off the day-to-day.
Whether that’s going to concerts, or going to sports. Racing
seems to have an attraction that keeps people coming.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  