-- 
Cain Confronts Own Abortion Sentiment in Talk to Iowa Social Conservatives

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-10-23T15:04:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/romney-in-debate-shows-frontrunner-status-even-lacking-republican-majority.html
Businessman  Herman Cain  faced a
gathering of social conservatives in Iowa last night, seeking
absolution for remarks he made about abortion and personal
choice that have left some in the early-voting state unsettled.  “In terms of preventing abortion on demand, I would not
sign any legislation for government-funded abortion,” Cain told
about 1,000 people gathered at the state fairgrounds in Des
Moines for an Iowa Faith & Freedom Coalition banquet.  “I would not sign any legislation that in any way allowed
the government to be involved in it,” he said. “I would
strengthen all of our current laws that prevent abortion. I
believe that abortion should be clearly stated and illegal
across this country and I would work to defund Planned
Parenthood.”  Cain was among six Republican presidential candidates
speaking to  Iowa  social conservatives who have yet to coalesce
around any of those aspiring to become President  Barack Obama ’s
challenger in 2012. The voting bloc is a critical one which
helped former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee  win the Iowa
 Republican Party ’s caucuses in 2008.  Cain, a former Godfather’s Pizza chief executive officer,
said during a CNN interview on Oct. 19 that some abortion-
related decisions should be made by families.  “It gets down to that family,” he said in the interview.
“And whatever they decide, they decide.”  Cain added: “The government shouldn’t be trying to tell
people everything to do, especially when it comes to social
decisions that they need to make.”  ‘Core Conviction’  Texas Governor  Rick Perry  used the forum to highlight anti-
abortion legislation he has signed as governor.  “I have taken an unwavering stand in defense of life,”
Perry said. “Being pro-life is not a matter of campaign
convenience. It is a core conviction. And that conviction should
include the protection of embryonic  stem cells .”  Perry mocked those who might suggest the government should
not be involved in abortion decisions.  “It is a liberal canard to say, ‘I am personally pro-life,
but government should stay out of that decision,’” Perry said.
“If that is your view, you are not pro-life. You are pro having
your cake and eating it, too.”  Cain maintained he believes there should be “no abortions,
no exceptions.”  Moving On  Cain won applause from the Iowa gathering for last night’s
comments, and a majority gave him a standing ovation when he
finished speaking. Asked by Bloomberg News whether he thought he
had put the matter behind him, Cain said: “I think I did.”  Before Cain took the stage, one of his fellow candidates
questioned Cain’s comments in an interview with Radio Iowa.  “Obviously he’s come across as either being inconsistent
or very confused on that,” U.S. Representative Ron Paul of
 Texas  told the network. “And this is one issue that supporters
of the issue -- they don’t want confusion.”  Some of those in attendance said they were troubled about
Cain’s remarks and wanted to hear him clarify his views.  “There’s concern,” said Marilyn Lane, 62, a retired
communications professional who lives in  West Des Moines , Iowa.
“I like Herman Cain otherwise. He’s a charismatic person, but
I’m also concerned that he has no experience in the arena.”  Rising in Polls  It was Cain’s first Iowa visit in two months and followed
his rapid rise in polls following his appearances in a series of
debates. Earlier yesterday, he attended  University of Iowa  and
Iowa State University football games.  Joining Cain, Perry and Paul at the banquet were U.S.
Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , former U.S.
Senator  Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania and former U.S. House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia .  Perry allowed some humor about his own campaign.  “We are not called to be perfect,” he said. “If any of
you have watched my debate performances over the last three or
four times, you know I am far from perfect.”  Santorum did not specifically name any of his opponents as
he questioned whether some of them were as committed to making
abortion illegal as he is.  “The choice for you is whether the folks who are
delivering this are authentic,” he said. “Can they be trusted?
Are these the people who stood up when they had their
opportunity and did what was called to be done?”  Romney Absent  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney didn’t attend the
event. He is taking a below-the-radar approach to Iowa as he
seeks to manage expectations for him in the state.  Romney finished second in Iowa in 2008 after the socially
conservative voters who dominate the party’s caucuses took issue
with his past support for abortion rights and a Massachusetts
health-care law when he was governor.  This year, social conservatives have yet to rally around
one candidate, leaving the possibility that they could divide
their support, creating an opening for Romney to make a strong
showing in the early January caucuses.  A poll conducted Oct. 12-19 by the University of Iowa
showed Cain and Romney leading in the state. Paul was the only
other candidate who had more than 10 percent support.  Reince Priebus, chairman of the  Republican National
Committee , encouraged those gathered at the banquet not to allow
the primary campaign to divide the party.  “There’s no such thing as a perfect candidate,” he said.
“We have so much to fight for in this election. We are going to
come together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in  Des Moines , Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  