-- 
Truckers Buying Less Fuel in Sign of Slowing U.S. Economy

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-10-12T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/truckers-buying-less-fuel-in-sign-of-slowing-u-s-economy.html
U.S. truckers’ fuel purchases
dropped the most in the three months through September of any
quarter in the past 10 years, excluding recessions, as
deliveries slowed to retailers, factories and consumers.  The Ceridian-UCLA Pulse of Commerce Index, which measures
the volume of driver purchases at fueling stations nationwide,
dropped at an annualized rate of 4.3 percent in the three months
through Sept. 30. The breadth of truckers’ deliveries makes
their fuel purchases an indicator of economic health.  “Since June, trucking activity has been receding at a pace
that would be expected to show up in other economic measures
soon,” Ed Leamer, the index’s chief economist, said in a
report. “Two or three more months like this would confirm an
official recession.”  The Ceridian index may be a better gauge of future economic
growth than some government data because it won’t be restated,
Leamer has said. The index’s decline suggests a third-quarter
growth rate of zero for U.S. gross domestic product, he said.  In September, the index fell 1 percent from August to 93.63
on a seasonal and workday-adjusted basis, the lowest since the
same month in 2010.  Businesses may be waiting later than usual to build holiday
inventories because of concerns that growth is slowing, Leamer
said. “What we are observing this month is only a weak forecast
of future sales, a forecast that doesn’t have to be self-
fulfilling.”  A Bloomberg survey of 66 economists projected, on average,
that the  U.S. economy  expanded 1.8 percent in the third quarter
from the previous three-month period.  Gross domestic product grew at a revised 1.3 percent pace
in the second quarter, according to the Commerce Department.
That followed a 0.4 percent increase in the first three months
of the year.  -- Editors: James Langford, Niamh Ring  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Ed Dufner at
   edufner@bloomberg.net  