-- 
Rugby World Cup Semifinal Success May Hinge on Scrum-Halves, Back-Rowers

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-13T03:39:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/rugby-world-cup-semifinal-successes-may-come-from-scrum-halves-back-row.html
New Zealand may be wrong to fret
about having to rely on its third and fourth-choice fly-halves
in the Rugby  World Cup  semifinals, with performances showing
that players in other positions are having more influence.  Of the  44 official man-of-the-match awards  at the
tournament, only four have gone to fly-halves, who typically
navigate their team in games. That’s about half the number who’d
won the award at this stage in the 2007 event. Scrum-halves and
back-row forwards swept the honors in this year’s quarterfinals.  The All Blacks, seeking their first World Cup title in 24
years, enter the Oct. 16 semifinal against Australia having lost
fly-half  Dan Carter , the leading points scorer in elite Tests,
and his backup to groin injuries. The play-making onus in the
quarterfinals fell to scrum-half  Piri Weepu , who responded with
21 points and the man-of-the-match award against  Argentina .  “Piri’s been steering us pretty well from nine,” All
Blacks assistant coach Wayne Smith said this week at the team’s
Auckland hotel. “It would be a big call to change that.”  Of the three other semifinalists,  France  is playing a
scrum-half at fly-half,  Wales  has relied on rookie No. 10 Rhys
Priestland ahead of British and Irish Lions Stephen Jones and
 James Hook , and Australia’s first-choice playmaker Quade Cooper
is having a “confidence crisis,” according to former New
Zealand captain Taine Randell. Priestland was today ruled out of
the Oct. 15 game against France because of a shoulder injury.  Wales also benefited from a man-of-the-match performance
from scrum-half  Mike Phillips  in its quarterfinal win over
Ireland. France coach Marc Lievremont selected Morgan Parra, who
plays his club rugby at scrum-half, in the fly-half position for
its victory over  England  in the last eight. No. 8 Imanol Harinordoquy was voted the game’s best player.  Point-Scoring Pair  Parra hadn’t started a Test match at No. 10 until this
World Cup and will continue in the role against Wales ahead of
specialist pivot Francois Trinh-Duc. Scrum-half Dimitri Yachvili
is the fifth-highest points scorer at the tournament and he and
Parra account for almost half of France’s 143 points.  “This is undoubtedly the best team,” Lievremont told
reporters in announcing an unchanged 22-man squad.  Australia  earned its semifinal berth by ousting defending
champion  South Africa  11-9 on the back of a man-of-the-match
display from open-side flanker  David Pocock  that some former
players and commentators rated as the best so far by any player
at the 20-nation event.  “The individual performance of this tournament, by a
country mile,” former England and British & Irish Lions fly-
half Stuart Barnes said while analyzing the game for tournament
host broadcaster Sky Sport.  Back-row Battle  Pocock, who was injured when the Wallabies were upset by
Ireland in the pool stage, said his duel with the All Blacks
back row for possession around the tackle area would be crucial
in deciding who reaches the Oct. 23 final at  Eden Park .  “Both teams know in the past it has been a big part of the
winning team, the way they’ve dominated the breakdown,” Pocock,
who made 26 tackles and took nine turnovers against the
Springboks, told reporters yesterday.  The award is determined by votes by fans and a panel of
judges. The decision by the judging panel accounts for two-
thirds of the voting.  After 44 of the 48 games in the 2007 tournament, fly-halves
were man of the match on 7 occasions. In that year’s
quarterfinals, the man of match awards went to 2 backrowers,
a prop and a center.  Awards  Open-side flankers, whose main function is to scavenge for
the ball to try to generate continuity for their team, head the
man-of-the-match tally with eight awards, two more than their
blindside counterparts on the opposite side of the scrum.  With No. 8s claiming seven awards, loose forwards have
taken almost half of the man of the match honors.  Wales captain Sam Warburton was a losing man of the match
in the one-point defeat to South Africa in its tournament
opener.  The open-side has since led his country to four straight
wins and a place in the final four for the first time since
1987. The Welsh are the only team other than  New Zealand  to have
scored at least  200 points  at this World Cup.  Ryan Jones, Warburton’s fellow back-rower, said his captain
had set the benchmark for the rest of the squad.  “Sam has done nothing but lead by example,” Jones told
reporters at the team’s Auckland hotel. “He is inspirational in
the way he conducts himself on the field, the manner in which he
has been playing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  