-- 
Trump Agrees to Pay $170 Million for Doral Golf Resort

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-10-12T21:28:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/trump-to-pay-170-million-for-florida-s-luxury-doral-golf-resort-property.html
Donald Trump  agreed to pay $170
million for Miami’s Doral Golf Resort & Spa, a luxury property
put into bankruptcy earlier this year by hedge fund Paulson &
Co. and  Winthrop Realty Trust. (FUR)   The agreement will be filed with the  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
in  New York  next week, and the transaction probably will be
completed in the first quarter of next year, Winthrop Chief
Executive Officer Michael Ashner said in a telephone interview.  “They pushed hard to get the deal done,” he said of the
Trump Organization.  Winthrop and Paulson foreclosed on five resorts including
Doral in January, and put them into Chapter 11 in February. The
filing forestalled maturity of $1 billion in mortgages and $525
million in mezzanine debt. The resorts last month reached an
agreement with a mezzanine lender affiliated with  MetLife Inc. (MET) 
that permits the reorganization to continue to September 2012.  There still will be an auction for the Doral resort to seek
better offers. So far, there aren’t any other bidders, according
to Ashner.  Trump plans to spend “well in excess” of $150 million on
renovating the 650-acre (260-hectare) resort, according to a
person with knowledge of the deal who asked not to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  Rhona Graff, a spokeswoman for New York-based Trump,
declined to comment on renovation costs. The agreement was
reported earlier today by the Wall Street Journal.  ‘Full Price’  “This wasn’t a discount price,” Trump said in a telephone
interview. “We’re paying a very full price, especially in light
of the fact of how much money we’ll have to spend to bring it
back to its original grandeur.”  Trump will pay all cash for the transaction and expects
renovations to take two years.  The developer and reality TV star has acquired at least
nine golf properties in the U.S. after mostly steering clear of
using his own money to buy real estate since 2005. Trump is
seeking more golf deals, particularly in  Florida , he said.  “We’re looking at other opportunities,” Trump said.
“We’ve been buying a lot of properties. We have a lot of
cash.”  After the Doral sale, the remaining resorts in the
bankruptcy case will be the Grand Wailea resort in Hawaii, the
Arizona Biltmore in Phoenix, the Claremont Hotel & Spa in
Berkeley,  California , and the La Quinta Resort & Club and Club
at PGA West golf course in La Quinta, California.  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ’s CNL Hotels & Resorts Inc. owned the resorts before the
Jan. 28 foreclosure.  The owners believe that the Doral offer implies a value for
all the resorts “significantly” exceeding the $1.5 billion in
debt, according to court filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  