-- 
Rupee Climbs Most in Two Weeks as Infosys Profit Beats Estimate

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-10-12T12:15:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/rupee-climbs-most-in-two-weeks-as-infosys-profit-beats-estimate.html
India ’s rupee gained the most in
more than two weeks after the nation’s second-largest software
exporter reported profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  The currency rebounded from a one-week low as the BSE India
Sensitive Index gained 2.6 percent. Infosys Ltd. said net income
was 19.1 billion rupees ($390 million) last quarter, compared
with a median forecast of analysts in a Bloomberg survey for
18.7 billion rupees. The rupee fell earlier on concern  Europe ’s
debt problems will damp demand for emerging-market assets.  “On one hand, we have news such as that from Infosys which
suggests exports and the economy may not perform as badly as
some believe, and on the other, the European problems are not
yet gone,” said Krishnamurthy Harihar, treasurer at FirstRand
Ltd. in Mumbai. “The rupee will likely stay in a range until we
have stronger cues.”  The rupee strengthened 0.8 percent to 48.96 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the biggest
advance since Sept. 27. It dropped to 49.4750 earlier, the
weakest level since Oct. 5.  Slovakia’s parliament failed to ratify changes to a bailout
fund for the euro region in a vote yesterday. European officials
are striving to meet an end-of-month target set by French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to get to grips with a crisis that’s
propelled  Greece  to the brink of default and shaken global
financial markets.  Industrial Production   India’s industrial production rose 4.1 percent in August
from a year earlier, government data showed today, less than the
median estimate of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey for
a 4.7 percent gain. The nation’s merchandise export growth
slowed for the second straight month, Commerce Secretary  Rahul
Khullar  said today.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 49.61 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations for a
rate of 49.97 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 Jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  