-- 
Rural Phone Providers Warn of Higher Prices From Subsidy Cuts

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-10-12T22:19:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/rural-phone-providers-warn-of-higher-prices-from-subsidy-cuts.html
Rural telephone providers told U.S.
lawmakers that proposed changes to a $4.3 billion subsidy for
landline service in high-cost regions may increase prices for
customers of smaller carriers.  The Federal Communications Commission wants to overhaul the
subsidy to fund the expansion of high-speed Internet. Cuts to
the program would boost the cost of operating in remote areas
and curtail carriers’ investment in their networks, Shirley
Bloomfield, chief executive officer of the  National
Telecommunications Cooperative Association , said today during a
hearing of the Senate Commerce committee.  “These areas are served by small rate-of-return-regulated
providers precisely because no one else could justify a business
case to serve there,” said Bloomfield, whose organization
represents more than 570 small phone providers nationwide.  The changes to the high-cost program, which is part of a
broader subsidy known as the Universal Service Fund, were
proposed Oct. 6 by FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski , who favors
expanding access to broadband as a vehicle for economic growth
and  job creation . The proposal will be brought before the
agency’s four commissioners at an Oct. 27 FCC meeting.  “Our plan to accelerate broadband build-out -- wired and
wireless -- to unserved homes, businesses and anchor
institutions in rural America,” would put the U.S. “on the
path to universal broadband access and bring massive consumer
benefits,” Genachowski said in  a speech  to the Pew Charitable
Trust today in  Washington .  ‘Connect America Fund’  The FCC wants to transform the Universal Service Fund into
a “Connect America Fund” designed to ensure affordable high-
speed Internet in regions that lack access and to promote mobile
broadband nationwide. Details of the proposal have yet to be
released by the agency.  The USF supports phone service to schools, libraries, the
poor and high-cost areas. The fund is financed by charges on
long-distance calls paid by telephone subscribers, and it
subsidizes companies including  Windstream Corp. (WIN)  and Frontier
Communications Corp.  In 2010, the program paid $4.3 billion to carriers doing
business in high-cost areas, according to the website of the
 Universal Service Administrative Company , a Washington-based
independent nonprofit group that administers the fund. More than
1,700 carriers receive support from the high-cost program.  “Reform almost always means that some vested stakeholders
will be unhappy because they prefer the status quo,” Senator
 Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat and Commerce Committee
Chairman, said in a statement. “There are serious questions
about the impact of reform on consumer bills.  Consumers need to
get more value for what they pay for -- not less.”  Connection Fees  A coalition of telephone companies led by  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  asked the FCC in July to reduce the
fees they pay to have calls connected by smaller rural carriers.
The changes were part of a bundle of suggestions for revising
programs designed to promote phone service.  The plan presented by AT&T and Verizon, which Frontier
Communications also signed, meets the goals of “supporting
deployment and operation of broadband service,” while
“maintaining the size” of the subsidy, Kathleen Abernathy,
executive vice president of regulatory affairs for Frontier and
a former FCC commissioner, said in prepared testimony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Francis in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  