-- 
Rusal Says Antitrust Watchdog Backs Its View on Norilsk Buyback

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-10-12T09:09:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/rusal-says-antitrust-watchdog-backs-its-view-on-norilsk-buyback.html
United Co. Rusal said a letter from
 Russia ’s antitrust watchdog confirms its view that a planned
share buyback by OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel can’t go ahead without
consent from the state.  The letter “confirms that the buyback is only possible
upon permission from the government commission,” Rusal said in
an e-mailed statement. “Without such a permission, any buybacks
conducted by Norilsk Nickel are void.”  The Federal Anti-Monopoly Service wrote to Norilsk,
billionaire Vladimir Potanin’s Interros Holding Co. and
Citigroup Inc., which is managing the buyback, saying that it
may require special approval,  Vedomosti  reported today. Norilsk,
which is carrying out the buyback via a unit registered outside
Russia, forms a single group with Interros and therefore
requires permission from the foreign investment commission to
buy the shares, the Moscow-based newspaper said.  Norilsk confirmed that it received a letter from the FAS,
saying that it is part of “routine” correspondence and didn’t
raise any specific requirements for a buyback. The company has
taken legal advice that Norilsk and Interros don’t constitute a
“single group,” and that the concept hasn’t been defined in
Russia’s antitrust laws, the company said today in an e-mail.  Billionaire  Vladimir Potanin ’s Interros aims to raise its
stake above 30 percent without triggering a mandatory offer to
shareholders under Russian regulations by buying back and
canceling the shares. He is seeking to increase influence over
Norilsk at the expense of rival billionaire shareholder Oleg
Deripaska’s Rusal, which holds 25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  