-- 
Salvatore Ferragamo Plans More India Stores

-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-10-12T06:59:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/salvatore-ferragamo-plans-more-india-stores.html
Salvatore Ferragamo Italia SpA, the
Italian luxury shoemaker that went public in June, plans to add
stores in  India  as demand for luxury products in the world’s
second-fastest growing major economy increases.  The company may add six stores in the country within the
next five years, Chief Executive Officer  Michele Norsa  said in
New Delhi yesterday. While Ferragamo has the “mechanisms” to
open at least 10 stores a year in India, it needs the “right
infrastructure,” Paul M. Cadman, chief executive officer for
 Asia  Pacific, said in an interview, without elaborating.  Ferragamo competes with companies including  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  and Gucci parent  PPR (PP)  SA in a country
where the market for luxury products, assets and services may
almost triple to $14.7 billion by 2015, according to a report by
 A.T. Kearney  and the  Confederation of Indian Industry .
Millionaires in India will more than double to 403,000 by 2015,
Julius Baer Group and CLSA Asia Pacific Markets said in a study.  “There is huge opportunity, if you look at the size of the
population, the age of the population, the number of high net-
worth individuals,” said Norsa. “In terms of potential
customers we have almost no limit.”  Joint Venture  Ferragamo agreed to a joint venture with India’s biggest
real estate developer  DLF Ltd. (DLFU)  in 2008 to open stores in the
world’s second-most populous nation. The Florence, Italy-based
maker of shoes, bags and apparel owns a 51 percent stake in
Ferragamo Retail India Pvt., which operates the company’s four
stores in the South Asian nation.  The company sells its Varina shoes for women starting from
22,000 rupees ($447) in a country where the  World Bank  estimates
more than three-quarters of the population live on less than $2
a day. Still, per capita income in India has doubled in the last
five fiscal years to 54,835 rupees as of March 31.  Companies that sell luxury products face problems such as
lack of luxury shopping malls in the country, Abhishek Ranganathan, a Mumbai-based analyst with MF Global Sify
Securities Pvt. said.  “There is no appropriate infrastructure because we don’t
have a market as huge for luxury,” said Ranganathan. “The
number of buyers and their repeat purchases, the economics are
still not mature enough.”  Ferragamo rose 1.3 percent to 10.59 euros at the close in
Milan yesterday, the highest since Sept. 29. The company sold
shares at the initial public offering at 9 euros each.  Ownership Restrictions  Indian laws limit foreign ownership in single-brand retail
to 51 percent. The government is “seriously” considering
easing the restrictions on overseas investment in the industry,
trade minister  Anand Sharma  said at a conference on the luxury
market in New Delhi yesterday.  Retail sales in India may almost double to $785 billion in
2015 from $396 billion this year, according to Business Monitor
International estimates.  Asia represents 50 percent of Ferragamo’s  business , Norsa
said.  China ,  Hong Kong , Taiwan and Macau are together the
company’s largest market, surpassing the U.S., he said.  Ferragamo, which opened its first store in Hong Kong in
1986 and in mainland China in 1994, has more than 90 points of
sale in greater China, the company said in March.  “We are opening 10-12 shops a year in China,” Cadman said
yesterday. “We have the mechanisms to open 10-12 stores a year
in India, but we need the right availability financially and we
need the right infrastructure to be available also.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  