-- 
Tsang Vows Subsidized Homes, More Land Supply After Hong Kong Prices Surge

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   M a r c o   L u i
-- 
2011-10-12T10:02:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/tsang-vows-subsidized-homes-more-land-supply-after-hong-kong-prices-surge.html
Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  promised to provide more affordable homes and signaled
greater government intervention in narrowing social inequality
that has stoked public anger.  More than 17,000 subsidized homes will be available over
four years from 2016, Tsang said today in his final policy
address before his term ends next year. The government will also
provide land for 20,000 private homes a year, and offer
sweeteners including rental waivers and help with transport
fares for the elderly.  Tsang’s popularity dropped as a 70 percent jump in home
prices since the start of 2009 and the fastest inflation in
three years have led to protests amid a widening wealth gap. The
core ideology of “big market, small government” that has won
 Hong Kong  the title of the world’s freest economy for 17 years,
is being challenged by the need to tackle poverty related to
structural changes in the city’s economy, Tsang said.  “Hong Kong has been moving away from its laissez faire
roots,” said Joseph Lau, an economist at Societe Generale SA in
Hong Kong. “To avoid social tensions, more income
redistribution is necessary, which means the government has to
play a greater role.”  Tsang took office in 2005 after mass protests led his
predecessor to quit, and with the economy smaller than when the
city was returned to Chinese rule eight years earlier. Gross
domestic product growth of 26 percent since then, unemployment
at a 13-year low and a minimum-wage law have failed to halt the
slide in his popularity.  Mixed Benefits  Proximity to China boosted exports, retail spending and
services -- along with the construction of office towers to
accommodate the Asian headquarters of firms such as JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and HSBC Holdings Plc. Still, an influx of mainland
money pushed  home prices  beyond the reach of many people.  China’s official overseeing the city,  Wang Guangya , warned
Tsang in June that housing may become a “political problem.”
Tens of thousands of demonstrators marched July 1 to protest
escalating housing and rental costs.  “Despite sustained economic growth in recent years, the
widening of the wealth gap is still a source of social
discontent,” Tsang said. “Poverty in Hong Kong is related to
economic restructuring,” reducing demand for “low-educated,
low-skilled workers, which has slowed their wage growth.”  The average annual income of the wealthiest 10 percent of
Hong Kong’s households gained 13 percent between 2005 and 2010
to HK$961,800, government data show. Income for the poorest 10
percent rose 2.5 percent to HK$37,200. Consumer prices excluding
distortions from subsidies rose 6.3 percent in August from a
year earlier, the highest rate since the global financial crisis
in 2008.  Food Costs  A 4.7 percent gain in the yuan against the dollar in the
past year has driven up food costs in the city, which imports
most of its fresh produce from the mainland. Tsang said the
government would seek to diversify sources of food and stabilize
prices.  The government-subsidized plan, or home-ownership scheme,
will be targeted at families with a monthly  household income  of
less than HK$30,000 ($3,854), mainly first-time home buyers,
Tsang said. The price of new homes under the program will be
based on household income, rather than in reference to prices in
the private market. Tsang in 2002 scrapped a previous subsidy
program that developers said helped drag the  property market 
lower because prices were set at a discount of about 30 percent
to the private market.  The government will rezone industrial land for residential
use to ensure stable supply, and keep its target of adding
15,000 public housing units a year, he said.  Intervention  “When private housing is in short supply and property
prices rise to a level beyond people’s purchasing power, the
Government has to intervene,” Tsang said.  Rents for public housing will be waived for two months, the
disabled will get a one-off extra allowance and elderly
residents who moved to  China  to escape Hong Kong’s high prices
will be able to receive benefits, Tsang said. The city’s low
birthrate will mean a quarter of the population will be aged 65
or older by 2030, and Tsang pledged more hospitals.  Tsang’s administration has already handed out more than
HK$180 billion in one-off relief measures, including power
subsidies, tax rebates and other sweeteners in the past four
years.  To address discontent, Tsang introduced a minimum wage in
May of HK$28 per hour, which he said showed the government is
“ready to intervene in the market” to improve the livelihoods
of low-income people. Over the long-term, the solution to the
problem was to invest in education and improve social mobility,
he said.  Sales Slump  “The policy address seems to lack new measures to bridge
the widening income disparity, and none of these are pre-
emptive,” said Raymond Yeung, an economist at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Hong Kong. “As the private
property begins to correct, it is not a good time to inject too
much supply.”  The number of home sales in Hong Kong slumped 54 percent in
September from a year earlier on concern the global economy may
slow. Developers’ reversed early losses as Tsang’s address ease
concerns of more curbs to damp price increases.  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks the city’s seven
biggest developers, advanced 3 percent at the close in Hong
Kong, after falling as much as 2.3 percent. It was the biggest
gain among four industry groups on the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index .  Limited Impact  “The housing policy will have limited impact on the
private property market because the units the government will
launch in the first year is very small and it’s targeting a
different group of people who can’t afford private housing,”
said Jonas Kan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Daiwa Capital
Markets. “This is not targeting to curb the private market.”  Henry Tang resigned last month as chief secretary to
consider whether to run against Leung Chun-ying, who stepped
down from the government’s top advisory body Oct. 3.  Tang backed Tsang’s focus on addressing the housing needs
of lower-income families in a briefing to journalists after the
speech.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  