-- 
Scene Last Night: Iseman, Cameron, Marilyn Horne, Wendy Schmidt

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-10-12T15:40:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/scene-last-night-fred-iseman-james-cameron-marilyn-horne-wendy-schmidt.html
Last night the Mariinsky Orchestra
finished a week of performances at  Carnegie Hall  with the
audience cheering.  This summer also saw a sold-out run of the Mariinsky Ballet
at the  Metropolitan Opera . And there’ll be more.  “The more Mariinsky the better,” said Frederick Iseman,
chairman and CEO of the hedge fund CI Capital Partners LLC, and
the newly installed chairman of the White Nights Foundation of
America, which supports the Mariinsky Theatre.  Iseman disclosed that the ballet company will return to New
York in the spring of 2013 with a two-week engagement at the
David H. Koch Theater at  Lincoln Center . The orchestra will have
a monthlong tour of the U.S. next year followed by a return to
Carnegie Hall in the fall of both 2012 and the following autumn.  Guests at a reception in Carnegie Hall’s Rohatyn Room after
last night’s concert included the writer and director  James Cameron , violinist Julian Rachlin, mezzo-soprano Marilyn Horne
and actress and playwright Anna Deavere Smith.  The 20-year-old Russian pianist Daniil Trifonov gave a
fiery performance of Tchaikovsky’s Piano Concerto No. 1, then
shed his bowtie to sign autographs at the reception.  “I constantly come up with new ideas and
interpretations,” said Trifonov, who was awarded the First
Prize, Gold Medal and Grand Prix at the XIV International
Tchaikovsky Competition in Moscow.  The chairman of the competition is Valery Gergiev, who
conducted the concert and is the artistic and general director
of the Mariinsky Theatre.  “His success is the success of the competition,” Gergiev
said.  Trifonov began his musical studies when he was 5 years old.
Since 2009, he has studied piano at the Cleveland Institute of
Music under Armenian-born concert pianist Sergei Babayan.  “He’s like a rare diamond,” said Babayan. “A talent like
this is maybe born every 100 years. He breathes music.”  Oil-Spill Cleanup  Some oil-spill problem-solvers gathered last night in a
garden on Sutton Place overlooking the  East River .  Wendy Schmidt, in a Prada lace dress and white leather
Armani jacket, was one to toast: She put up the money for the
Wendy Schmidt Oil Cleanup X Challenge, a program of the X Prize
Foundation. ($1.4 million for the prize, and another $1.4
million to support it, she said).  “I spread venture money out into the world,” said
Schmidt, president of the  Schmidt Family Foundation . “This is a
relatively small amount of money for a great impact.”  The winners of the prize, Jeff Cantrell and Donnie Wilson,
co-founders of  Elastec/American Marine , based in Carmi,
 Illinois , hung out under trees lit by paper lanterns as jazz
played from an iPod. Their invention is a spinning, grooved disc
that picks up oil without picking up a lot of water with it.  ‘Above the Bar’  Oil cleanup is Elastec’s business, but the prize “gave us
a reason, a timeline,” said Wilson, the company’s chief
executive. “It forced us to shoot above the bar in every way
possible.”  Dr. Peter Diamandis, chairman and CEO of the Los Angeles-
based X Prize Foundation, said the prize model is efficient.
“You only pay the winner, but you get a lot of teams working on
a problem,” Diamandis said. “Instead of backing a single
solution, you’re backing an entire industry.”  The hosts of the party were Paul H. O’Reilly-Hyland and
Joelle Wyser-Pratte, managing partners at  Ounavarra Capital LLC .  Guests were impressed with their garden, which they share
with the owners of other townhouses on their cobblestone street.
“Someone just asked me if he could propose marriage here,”
said Wyser-Pratte.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 