-- 
Sears Said to Seek Agent to License Craftsman, DieHard Brands

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-10-13T15:04:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/sears-said-to-seek-agent-to-license-craftsman-diehard-brands.html
Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , the largest
U.S. department-store chain, is looking to hire a firm to help
license three brands, said a person familiar with the situation.  Seeking new sources of revenue, Sears is circulating a
proposal for its Craftsman tool, Kenmore appliance and DieHard
battery brands, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the process isn’t public.  Under a licensing model, Sears would receive a fee to use
its name on products. That differs from a current agreement with
a handful of retailers including Ace hardware stores and  Costco
Wholesale Corp. (COST) , where Sears sells its own products and shares
profits with the other merchants.  The shares surged 6 percent in after-hours trading
yesterday in New York and rose less than 1 percent to $70.44
today at 10:10 a.m.  Sears in June announced a licensing agreement with Dorcy
International to sell DieHard-brand batteries and flashlights.  “It gets your name out there, your product out there, your
brand out there, and it’s another revenue stream,”  Michael
Stone, chief executive officer of The Beanstalk Group in New
York, said in a phone interview. The licensing firm’s clients
have included Procter & Gamble Co. and Ford Motor Co.  Sears, which is based in  Hoffman Estates ,  Illinois ,
declined to comment specifically on the proposal.  “As part of our strategy to grow the value of our
proprietary brands, we evaluate all avenues including extending
the brands into new markets and categories,” Michael Castleman,
vice president and head of the Kenmore, Craftsman, and DieHard
brands, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Sears Experience  While selling brands elsewhere could give people less
reason to come to Sears stores, “on the other hand, you could
make the case that the Sears experience is going to be amplified
elsewhere,” Ira Mayer, publisher of The Licensing Letter, said
in a phone interview. “If you can exploit your trademarks in a
wider context, you may be building your business long term.”  Sears has posted losses in the previous six quarters,
including a steeper decline of $146 million, or $1.37 a share,
in the quarter through July 30. The company hasn’t posted a
quarterly sales increase since 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  