-- 
Swaps Registrants Would Have to Vouch for Capability in SEC Rule

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-12T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/sec-proposes-registration-rules-for-swap-dealers-participants.html
Securities-based swap dealers and
large swap participants would need to have senior officers
certify their ability to participate in the $601 trillion market
under registration rules proposed by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  SEC commissioners voted 3-1 yesterday to seek comment on a
Dodd-Frank Act rule that calls on firms to certify operational
and compliance capabilities and ensure trades aren’t conducted
by people who are “statutorily disqualified.”  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted last year,
directed the SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission to
write rules for derivatives markets after largely unregulated
trades of credit-default swaps contributed to the financial
crisis in 2008.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are
the biggest U.S. derivatives traders, according to a second-
quarter report from the Comptroller of the Currency.  “Registering the major market participants in the largely
unregulated security-based swap markets is a critical step
toward better protecting investors,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
said before the vote. Senior-official certifications “would
provide assurance as to the registrant’s financial, operational,
and compliance capabilities,” she said.  SEC Commissioner  Troy Paredes  opposed the proposal, calling
the senior official provision a “novel and untested approach”
that could leave regulators with “too much room for after-the-
fact second guessing.”  “What it means to be capable in these respects is simply
unknown,” Paredes, the commission’s sole Republican, said at
the meeting. Firms that develop problems could be vulnerable to
having the SEC decide later that the senior officer’s
determination was wrong, he said.  ‘Quite Simple’  The requirement isn’t “particularly complicated,”
Commissioner Elisse Walter, a Democrat, said at the meeting.  “The goal is quite simple: A potential registrant must be
able to reasonably conclude that it can conduct the business for
which it seeks a license from the commission,” she said before
the vote.  The registration proposal -- which will be open to a 60-day
public comment period -- would allow firms already registered
with the CFTC to fill out a simplified form to register with the
SEC. It also sets up a conditional registration process for
those uncertain about registering before the rest of the
regulators’ swaps rules are adopted.  The SEC’s December proposal for defining security-based
swap dealers and major swap participants is still awaiting final
adoption.  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial instruments
used to hedge risks or for speculation. They may be based on
stocks, bonds, loans, currencies or commodities, or linked to
specific events like changes in  interest rates . The SEC will
oversee derivatives based on securities; the CFTC is responsible
for the rest of the markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 