-- 
Senate Passes Measure on China’s Weak Yuan

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-12T00:40:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/senate-passes-measure-on-china-s-weak-currency-as-house-leader-casts-doubt.html
The  U.S. Senate  passed legislation
punishing China for its undervalued currency as opposition from
House Speaker  John Boehner  casts doubt on whether the measure
will become law.  The Senate voted 63-35 yesterday for the measure backed by
Democrats such as Senators Sherrod Brown of Ohio and  Charles Schumer  of  New York  and Republicans including Lindsey Graham of
 South Carolina  and  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama.  China’s leaders and Washington opponents such as Boehner
and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have said the measure letting
U.S. companies seek duties on Chinese goods to offset the weak
yuan risks starting a trade war. Senate passage put the focus on
Boehner.  “By passing by a large majority, maybe they think they
will be able to intimidate Boehner into a vote,”  Nicholas
Lardy , senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in  Washington , said in an interview.  The Senate bill mandates that the Treasury Department
identify misaligned currencies, instead of deciding whether a
currency was manipulated, as is now required. Governments that
undervalue their currencies and don’t take corrective action
would face penalties, including increased dumping duties, a ban
on federal procurement in the U.S. and ineligibility to receive
financing from the  Overseas Private Investment Corporation .  “We are very supportive of the objectives of that bill,
which is to try to make sure there’s a level playing field
around the world, that countries can’t keep their currencies
weak at the expense of American exporters,” Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday on Bloomberg Television. “We
have been pushing very, very hard to get  China  to move.”  ‘International Obligations’  Geithner said that while China’s currency has appreciated
10 percent in real terms since the middle of 2010, the Obama
administration wants the Chinese government to allow a bigger
rally.  Schumer, who has proposed similar measures on China’s
currency over the past six years, failed in his previous
attempts to get an up-or-down Senate vote on a bill.  “We are in trade war,” Brown said in a statement
following the vote. “We’re fighting back with one of the
biggest bipartisan jobs bill the Senate has seen this year,”  Opponents say they worry that protectionism and trade
conflicts may stall a global economic recovery already weighed
down by the slumping U.S. housing market and  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis. The legislation is opposed by business groups, such
as the Chamber of Commerce, that say it may cause a trade
dispute.  ‘Got To Stop’  The current policy “may be good for this company or that
company, but it is not good for America,” Sessions said on the
floor before the vote. “It’s got to stop.”  The measure may stall in the House Ways and Means
Committee, which controls trade legislation in its chamber.
Representative  Dave Camp , the Michigan Republican who heads the
panel, hasn’t committed to supporting the bill even though he
voted for a similar measure last year backed by Representative
Sander Levin of Michigan, top Democrat on the committee.  “While currency is certainly an issue, solely looking at
currency manipulation misses the larger points,” spokesman Jim
Billimoria said last week in an e-mail. Camp “will begin
looking aggressively at China’s abuses this fall.”  Boehner, an  Ohio  Republican, and House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia voted against Levin’s bill last year.  “To force the Chinese to do what is arguably very
difficult to do I think is wrong, it’s dangerous,” Boehner said
Oct. 6 at the Washington Ideas Forum, sponsored by the Atlantic
magazine and the Aspen Institute. “Given the economic
uncertainty around the world, it’s just very dangerous and we
should not be engaged in this.  Avoid ‘Symbolic’ Laws  President  Barack Obama  said at a news conference the same
day that while ‘‘China has been very aggressive in gaming the
trading system to its advantage and to the disadvantage of other
countries, particularly the  United States ,’’ he wants to avoid
laws that ‘‘are symbolic, knowing that they’re probably not
going to be upheld by the World Trade Organization.’’  Levin has said that the House version of the legislation
had 225 supporters and urged Boehner to let members vote.  ‘‘It’s clear to me momentum is very much increasing,’’ he
told reporters yesterday before the vote. ‘‘The pressure will
mount here in the House to act.’’  Representative Mark Critz, a Pennsylvania Democrat who
backs Levin’s bill, sought in July to force a vote against the
wishes of Republican leaders. He rounded up more than 173 House
members, mostly Democrats, to sign a petition that would bring
the measure to the floor. It needs at least 218 signatures, a
majority, to succeed.  Yuan Appreciation  The yuan has appreciated 4.6 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past year and 24 percent in the past five years,
the steepest advance after Colombia’s peso among 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. China limits currency
conversions for investment purposes and buys dollars to slow the
yuan’s advance and preserve the competitiveness of China’s
exports.  Even if the bill becomes a law, it could take years for it
to have any substantive effect in the U.S., Lardy said. Between
filing complaints and conducting investigations, companies
wouldn’t get any immediate relief, he said.  ‘‘I would think it would take years before you saw any sort
of microeconomic effect,” Lardy said. “I don’t think it would
reach its objective, it might not make any difference for a long
time.”  The bill is S. 1619.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  