-- 
Serbia’s AIK Banka Lowers Profit Target, Approves Share Buyback

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-10-12T14:53:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/serbia-s-aik-banka-lowers-profit-target-approves-share-buyback.html
Shareholders of  AIK Banka AD (AIKB) ,
Serbia’s seventh-biggest bank by assets, approved lowering the
2011 profit target 43 percent to account for the dinar’s
stronger-than-forecast performance.  The shareholders also approved funds to buy back shares to
“prevent unfounded” stock-price declines.  The bank, 20 percent-owned by  Greece ’s  Agricultural Bank of
Greece (ATE)  SA, is now targeting a full-year profit of 4 billion
dinars ($54.77 million), down from an originally planned 7.1
billion dinars, board member Djordje Djukic said in a phone
interview in Belgrade yesterday.  “We want to make it clear to investors that the adjustment
resulted from the dinar’s appreciation because we based our
budget and plans on an exchange rate of 115 to the euro,”
Djukic said. The amended target calculates the dinar at 105 to
the euro for this year.  Economies in the region, including  Serbia ’s gross domestic
product, have been vulnerable to  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis,
which followed the global financial crisis that led to  a
recession across the region.  Djukic also cited the slowdown and “stagnating” corporate
lending, which was crimped after “overall economic conditions
severely deteriorated,” as reasons for the updated forecast.  Shareholders also approved a management plan to buy back
2.88 percent of shares and spend an equivalent of 7.5 million
euros in an operation that would take place on the Belgrade
Stock Exchange. That would involve only “occasional buying to
prevent the price from falling without any particular reason,”
he said.  Confident in Fundamentals  “The aim of this decision is to demonstrate that the
management is confident of the bank’s fundamentals and that we
want to prevent any slump in our share price,” Djukic said. The
bank will not “act like a broker, on a daily basis and with
small amounts.”  With a 0.7 percent increase, shares of AIK Banka closed at
2,013 dinars per share today, completing the fifth day of gains.  The share buyback needs to be cleared by the central bank
and the securities watchdog, with approval expected within a
month, he added.  Djukic said gross loan-loss-provisions of 32.4 billion
dinars were high enough to keep its capital “well-protected.”
The loan-loss provisions for one of its major clients, road
builder  Nibens Grupa , stood at 4.23 billion dinars, compared
with total exposure of 5.54 billion, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  