-- 
Solyndra Seeks to Hire Chief Restructuring Officer After CEO Departs

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-10-12T21:20:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/solyndra-seeks-chief-restructuring-officer-after-ceo-departs.html
Solyndra LLC, the bankrupt solar
panel maker, asked for court permission to hire  R. Todd Neilson 
as chief restructuring officer to replace its chief executive
officer, who departed after refusing to answer questions posed
by a congressional committee.  Neilson will “effectively replace the debtor’s CEO, Brian Harrison, who left the company as scheduled on Oct. 7,”
Solyndra said in a filing yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  Neilson is needed immediately to evaluate potential asset
sales and develop a reorganization plan for the company with
adviser Berkeley Research Group, Solyndra said. A hearing to
seek court approval is set for Oct. 17.  David Miller , a spokesman for the Fremont, California-based
company, didn’t immediately return a call and e-mail seeking
comment on the filing. Solyndra officials didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail requesting a phone number where Harrison
could be reached.  The request to appoint Neilson comes as creditors oppose
the appointment of a bankruptcy trustee who would supplant
management. The U.S. Trustee filed a motion seeking a Chapter 11
trustee one week after Harrison and Chief Financial Officer
Wilbur G. Stover Jr. last month invoked their Fifth Amendment
rights against self-incrimination and declined to testify in an
inquiry by the House Energy and Commerce Committee.  Solyndra Objection  Solyndra objected to the trustee proposal in court papers
filed today, claiming it would only delay the end of the
bankruptcy. Federal officials questioned the ability of managers
to operate the company “only when Solyndra’s bankruptcy case
became a political spectacle,” the company said in court
papers.  Solyndra’s creditors said the move to appoint a trustee
“adds to the already highly charged negative atmosphere
surrounding Solyndra,” and wouldn’t help the company sell its
assets. There have been “no substantiated claims of any
wrongdoing,” although the U.S.’s $535 million loan to Solyndra
has been “the subject of highly publicized political discussion
and negative press,” creditors said.  Bankruptcy law calls for a trustee on a showing of
“cause,” including gross mismanagement or fraud by current
management.  Bonnie Glantz Fatell, a lawyer for creditors, didn’t
immediately return a call and e-mail for comment on the decision
to seek a restructuring officer. Bruce Grohsgal, a lawyer for
Solyndra, declined to comment.  Similar Capacity  Neilson served in a similar capacity in the Chapter 11 case
of beverage maker Le-Nature’s Inc., whose former CEO pleaded
guilty to charges of masterminding an $800 million fraud.
Neilson and Berkeley Research estimate their total compensation
for the Solyndra case will be $900,000 to $1.1 million,
according to court papers.  In September, the bankruptcy judge authorized Solyndra to
auction the business on Oct. 27. In a court filing yesterday,
the creditors’ committee said it is negotiating with the company
for a “brief extension of the sale timelines.”  Solyndra filed for Chapter 11 reorganization on Sept. 6 and
was raided two days later by the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation . Solyndra said assets were $859 million while debt
totaled $749 million as of Jan. 1. When the petition was filed,
Solyndra said secured debt was $783.8 million.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  