-- 
Some Federal Reserve Officials Sought to Retain Option of QE3, Minutes Say

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-10-12T20:45:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/some-federal-reserve-officials-sought-to-retain-option-of-qe3-minutes-say.html
The  Federal Reserve  said some
officials last month wanted to keep further asset purchases as
an option to boost the economy as policy makers saw
“considerable uncertainty” that U.S. growth will pick up.  Most participants favored giving additional information on
the central bank’s goals and how they influence the Fed’s
decisions, and most “saw advantages” in tying the Fed’s near-
zero interest rates to more specific developments in the
economy, the Fed said in minutes of the Sept. 20-21 session,
released today in Washington. Such changes may be expressed in
ways other than the post-meeting statement, the Fed said.  The debate culminated in the Federal Open Market
Committee’s decision to replace $400 billion of Treasuries in
the central bank’s portfolio with longer-term debt to reduce
borrowing costs. Three officials dissented. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the so-called Operation Twist program is
a “significant step but not a game changer” for reviving
growth and reducing unemployment stuck near 9 percent.  “A number of participants saw large-scale asset purchases
as potentially a more potent tool that should be retained as an
option in the event that further policy action to support a
stronger economic recovery was warranted,” the minutes said.  Policy makers also decided on Sept. 21 to reinvest maturing
housing debt into mortgage-backed securities in part to keep the
Fed’s Treasury holdings from getting too large and possibly
causing a “deterioration in Treasury market functioning,” the
minutes said.  Benchmark  Interest Rate   The FOMC left its benchmark rate in a range of zero to 0.25
percent, where it’s been since December 2008, and reiterated its
language from its August meeting that the rate is likely to stay
very low through at least mid-2013.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks pared gains,
rising 1 percent to 1,207.25 at 4:41 p.m. in  New York . Yields on
10-year Treasuries climbed 6 basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 2.21 percent.  Fed officials also considered a weaker version of Operation
Twist that would reinvest principal payments on housing debt
exclusively in long-term  Treasury securities , the minutes said.
Policy makers discussed lowering the 0.25 percent interest rate
paid on banks’ reserve deposits with the Fed; many officials
expressed concern that such a move “risked costly disruptions
to money markets and to the intermediation of credit.”  Third Round  Additional asset purchases would constitute a third round
of so-called quantitative easing after the Fed bought $2.3
trillion in housing and government debt in two rounds from
December 2008 to June 2011. Some officials said expanding the
Fed’s balance sheet further “would be more likely to raise
inflation and inflation expectations than to stimulate economic
activity and argued that such tools should be reserved for
circumstances in which the risk of deflation was elevated,” the
minutes said.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser , one of the
dissenters, said after a speech today in Philadelphia that the
threat of deflation would warrant more stimulus. He said
Operation Twist won’t have a “major impact” on the speed of
the economic recovery and that he expects U.S. growth to
“gradually accelerate” to about 3 percent next year.  As for the option of additional asset purchases, “it’s
there, it’s possible, but it’s a high hurdle,”  Michael Moran ,
chief economist at Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc. in New
York, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “Most
FOMC members are going to view that as a tool that should be
reserved for if the economy were to start to decline or if we
were to get into a situation where deflation is a risk,” he
said.  Specific Levels  At the August meeting, Bernanke and colleagues discussed
adopting specific levels of inflation and unemployment as
conditions for keeping interest rates near zero. Only Chicago
Fed President  Charles Evans  has publicly supported the idea of
allowing price increases faster than 2 percent annually as a way
to lower unemployment.  The September minutes said that most participants “favored
taking steps to increase further the transparency of monetary
policy.” Some committee members said it would be “useful” to
clarify the link between monetary-policy decisions in the short
term and longer-run objectives.  Unemployment Objective  A number of participants “expressed concerns” about
communicating an objective for the  unemployment rate  because of
monetary policy’s indirect influence over labor markets. The Fed
panel agreed that the long-run rate of inflation is determined
by monetary policy. The minutes stopped short of saying the Fed
was prepared to set an explicit inflation target.  “Participants generally saw the committee’s post-meeting
statements as not well suited to communicate fully the
committee’s thinking about its objectives and its policy
framework,” the minutes said. They agreed that they would need
to use “other means” to supplement the statement, without
specifying what those could be.  The Fed also discussed giving more information on the
conditions under which interest rates would stay close to zero,
which could make the statement “more effective” and provoke a
more favorable response in financial markets, the minutes said.  Several officials saw a risk that such information “could
be mistaken” for a statement of the Fed’s longer-run
objectives, and some said the central bank’s Summary of Economic
Projections, published four times a year, could be used to
provide more details.  ‘Quite Leery’  Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said Sept. 27 that she will
be “quite leery” of allowing inflation or price expectations
to rise in an attempt to lower real interest rates. St. Louis
Fed President  James Bullard  said the same day that faster
inflation won’t reduce the housing glut.  U.S. employers added 103,000 jobs last month, more than
economists forecast, while the jobless rate held at 9.1 percent,
the Labor Department said Oct. 7. Job gains have slowed for two
straight quarters.  Bernanke said at a Joint Economic Committee hearing Oct. 4
that the two-year-old recovery is “close to faltering.” The
 U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.3 percent annual pace in the second
quarter, up from 0.4 percent in the first quarter.  Fed staff economists reduced their forecast for growth in
the second half of 2011 “and in the medium term,” the minutes
said, without giving specific figures. That was the staff’s
fifth consecutive downward revision to the near-term outlook,
and the third consecutive revision to the medium-term forecast.
Fed governors and regional presidents last gave economic
projections in June and will publish revisions Nov. 2.  Relapse Into Recession  Sixty percent of respondents to last month’s Bloomberg
Global Poll see the U.S. economy deteriorating, and 50 percent
said it will relapse into recession in the next year. Seventy-
eight percent of respondents said the Fed’s Operation Twist
won’t produce job growth.  Many policy makers at the meeting judged that inflation
risks were “roughly balanced,” and officials “generally
judged that there was relatively little risk of deflation,” the
minutes said. The Fed’s preferred price index, which excludes
food and fuel costs, rose 1.6 percent in August from a year
earlier, up from 1 percent in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  