-- 
Sony Halts 93,000 Online Accounts After Attempts of Unauthorized Access

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-10-12T08:04:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/sony-says-unauthorized-users-tried-to-access-online-services.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , the world’s second-
largest maker of video-game machines, temporarily suspended
about 93,000 user accounts of its online gaming and
entertainment services after finding they were hacked.  “A massive number” of unauthorized attempts were detected
between Oct. 7 and Oct. 10, Sony spokesman Satoshi Fukuoka said.
The efforts included usernames and passwords that matched 93,000
accounts, including at least 35,000 in the U.S. and 24,000 in
 Europe , he said. Personal information, including home addresses,
in some accounts may have been compromised, he said.  Customers haven’t complained and credit card information
hasn’t been leaked, Fukuoka said. The suspensions come three
months after the maker of PlayStation game consoles resumed
online services following hacker attacks in April that
compromised more than 100 million customer accounts, the second-
largest online data breach in U.S. history.  “The bitter memory of the April attack still lingers,”
said  Nobuo Kurahashi , an analyst at Mizuho Financial Group Inc.
in Tokyo who rates Sony stock “neutral.” “Asking customers to
change passwords will probably cause inconveniences and
concerns.”  Intruders  Sony,  Japan ’s largest exporter of consumer electronics,
plans to e-mail users of the suspended accounts asking them to
change their passwords, it said in a statement. The intruders
probably used passwords and user names that are set for other
companies’ services, Sony said in the statement.  “The number of accounts that were actually broken into by
intruders is probably only a small portion of those that we
suspended,” Fukuoka said. The affected accounts comprise less
than 0.1 percent of the customers using Sony’s online services,
he said.  Sony rose 1.4 percent to close at 1,517 yen in Tokyo
trading. The stock has plummeted 48 percent this year, compared
with a 16 percent decline for the broader Topix index.  Chairman  Howard Stringer  apologized in May and offered U.S.
users of its PlayStation Network and Qriocity online services a
year of free identity-theft protection after the system was
crippled by hackers.  The Tokyo-based company was then criticized by U.S.
lawmakers for not informing users of the breach quickly enough.  Sony said in May the earlier attacks also gave hackers
access to data from Sony Online Entertainment, which offers
role-playing games. That exposed 23,400 credit-card and debit
records from non-U.S. customers, and the personal account
information of 24.6 million account holders.  The company had budgeted 14 billion yen ($182 million) in
costs after the April hacker attacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  