-- 
Sony Recalls 1.6 Million Bravia Flat-Panel TVs Worldwide on Risk of Fire

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 
2011-10-13T01:06:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/sony-starts-recall-of-1-6-million-bravia-televisions.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  recalled 1.6 million
Bravia flat-panel TVs sold worldwide since 2007 because a faulty
component may cause them to melt or catch fire.  Sony recalled the liquid-crystal display TVs after a
September incident in which a customer noticed a small fire and
smoke, said Yuki Shima, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for the
world’s third-largest maker of televisions. Eleven incidents
have been reported in Japan since 2008, according to a company
statement, and no injuries have been reported.  A faulty component in the backlight systems may be the
source of overheating that can melt the top of the TV set, Shima
said. It’s the second recall involving Sony products in a month,
with KDDI Corp.,  Japan ’s second-largest mobile-phone operator,
saying it would replace Sony-made batteries in as many as 2
million handsets because they may overheat and melt.  “Sony-related recalls are following one another, and that
may ruin the company’s brand image,” said Keita Wakabayashi, an
analyst at Mito Securities Co. with a “neutral plus” rating on
the stock. “Considering Sony’s overall business size, the TV
recalls won’t shake the company’s grounding.”  The same transformer is used in the five Bravia models in
Japan being recalled, according to a Sony statement.  The recalled sets, 40-inch models sold in regions including
 China , the Americas, the  Middle East  and Europe, will be
repaired if faulty parts are found. Sony will dispatch a service
crew to inspect sets, Shima said. The company won’t offer
refunds or replacement TVs, she said.  U.S.,  Europe  Announcements  There haven’t been any reports of overheating incidents
outside Japan, the statement said. The recalls are carried out
globally.  Sony rose 3 percent to 1,562 yen as of 9:51 a.m. in  Tokyo 
trading, narrowing its loss this year to 47 percent. Japan’s
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 1.1 percent. The
recall was announced yesterday after Tokyo markets closed.  “It could impact the stock negatively if the recall causes
a significant amount of expense,” Wakabayashi said.  The repairs will have a negligible impact on Sony’s
earnings, Shima said. The recall was voluntary, she said.  Sony shares declined to their lowest in 24 years earlier
this month on speculation the yen’s strength and slumping demand
for televisions will hurt earnings. The company, which forecast
full-year operating profit of 200 billion yen ($2.6 billion) in
July, loses about 6 billion yen of annual operating profit, or
sales minus the cost of goods sold and administrative expenses,
for every 1 yen decline against the euro.  Previous Recalls  This is the company’s first recall of flat-screen
televisions, though not the first associated with the Bravia
line. In April 2010, Sony offered to repair the stands attached
to two models because the screws weren’t strong enough and the
stands could collapse.  Later that month, the company recalled 535,000 Vaio
personal computers because of possible overheating caused by a
temperature-control defect.  Separately, the world’s second-largest maker of video-game
machines said yesterday it temporarily suspended about 93,000
user accounts of its online gaming and entertainment services
after finding they were hacked.  “A massive number” of unauthorized attempts by intruders
were detected between Oct. 7 and Oct. 10, Sony spokesman  Satoshi Fukuoka  said. The efforts included usernames and passwords that
matched 93,000 accounts, including at least 35,000 in the U.S.
and 24,000 in Europe, he said.  Personal information, including home addresses, in some
accounts may have been compromised, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  