-- 
South Africa Manufacturing Output Rebounds as Strikes End

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-10-12T12:37:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/south-africa-manufacturing-output-climbs-5-6-as-strikes-end.html
South African manufacturing
rebounded in August, expanding 5.6 percent as companies boosted
output following strikes in the chemical, petroleum and mining
industries a month earlier.  Production rose after a revised 6.2 percent contraction in
July, Pretoria-based Statistics  South Africa  said on its website
today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of nine
economists was for a 0.6 percent drop. Output surged a
seasonally adjusted 7.6 percent in the month.  “It seems businesses wanted to catch up fairly quickly and
rebuild some of the inventories they had been forced to
deplete,” Jean-Francois Mercier, an economist at Citigroup Inc.
in Johannesburg and one of three analysts that forecast an
expansion in the Bloomberg survey, said in a telephone
interview. “The rebound from the strikes seemed to have been
quicker.”  Africa’s biggest economy is struggling to recover from the
slowest growth in almost two years in the second quarter after
mining, petroleum and chemical workers went on strike in July.
About 320,000 metalworkers went on a two-week work stoppage, and
petroleum, chemical, engineering and packaging workers held an
18-day strike for higher wages.  The economy grew an annualized 1.3 percent in the second
quarter after a contraction in mining and manufacturing. The
central bank said on Sept. 22 that it is “ready to act” to
help support growth.  The rand gained 1.5 percent to 7.7975 per  U.S. dollar  at
1:48 p.m. The currency has dropped 15 percent this year, the
worst performer among the 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  