-- 
South Korea’s Lee Sees ‘Good, Decent Jobs’ From Pending U.S. Trade Accord

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-10-12T19:52:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/south-korea-s-lee-sees-good-decent-jobs-from-pending-u-s-trade-accord.html
South Korean President Lee Myung-bak
told U.S. business leaders today that the pending trade treaty
between the two countries will create “good, decent jobs” that
will help spur both economies.  “I know it will create jobs,” Lee told a few hundred
invited guests in  Washington  at a luncheon sponsored by the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce and the U.S.- Korea  Business Council. “It’s
going to be beneficial to workers, to small businesses” and to
consumers, he said.  U.S. trade accords with  South Korea , Colombia and  Panama ,
reached under former President  George W. Bush  and revised by the
Obama administration, are awaiting approval in Congress today
after being held up in a stalemate with Republicans over aid for
workers who lose their jobs to foreign competition.  The South Korea deal, the biggest since the  North American
Free Trade Agreement , would boost U.S. exports by as much as
$10.9 billion in its first year when fully implemented,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission.  White House Chief of Staff  William Daley  has urged
lawmakers to finish work on the agreement this week and renew
aid for workers hurt by foreign competition, known as Trade
Adjustment Assistance, calling the measures an “essential piece
of the president’s jobs agenda.”  While the trade agreement was reached more than four years
ago, it was delayed as lawmakers complained about South Korean
barriers to U.S. exports of cars and beef.  Chamber Versus Labor  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce says the trade agreements with
South Korea, Colombia and Panama will prevent the loss of
380,000 jobs. The AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor federation,
claims the opposite, saying the accords will destroy 159,000
jobs by encouraging companies to send work overseas.  Lee rejected that argument today, predicting critics of the
trade deal will soon have a change of heart.  “After a year, many critics will realize they are wrong,”
Lee said. “I’m confident we will prove them wrong.”  At a time of economic crisis in  Europe  and fiscal stress
around the world, Lee said, “Protectionism is not the answer.
When you are faced with a challenge of this magnitude, you have
to open your economy and promote free trade.”  President  Barack Obama  has pledged to double U.S. exports
by 2015.  “If Americans can buy Kias and Hyundais, I want to see
folks in South Korea driving Fords and Chevys and Chryslers,”
Obama said in a speech to Congress on Sept. 8.  Detroit Visit  Lee appeared before the U.S. Chamber of Commerce during an
official state visit that includes a dinner at the White House
tomorrow night. Lee and Obama will also visit the Detroit area
on Oct. 14 to promote the new trade deal.  “When Americans see the benefit of this agreement in the
 United States , we will have our very patient friends in Korea to
thank,” said U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk, who spoke at
the luncheon.  “We are finally at what looks like the end of a very long
journey,” said  William Rhodes , chairman of the U.S.-Korea
Business Council.  After years of stalemate, House Speaker  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican, said he will consider a worker assistance
package in tandem with the trade deal, clearing the way for
approval. Obama submitted legislation required for the deal on
Oct. 3.  Tom Donohue , president of the Chamber of Commerce, praised
Lee for supporting a free-trade accord “at a time when some
people fear trade as a part of the problem.”  Addressing Lee, Donohue said, “You have shown incredible
patience while America finally got its act together.”  With the trade deal now nearing enactment, Lee said, “It
is up to you to create jobs and to increase investments. When
you do that, we will be making a tremendous contribution to the
betterment of the global economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  