-- 
South Africa May Use Reserves to Ease Market Stress, Finance Minister Says

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-10-12T13:45:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/south-africa-may-use-reserves-to-ease-market-stress-finance-minister-says.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said the country may use its foreign-currency
reserves to “ease temporary market stress” after the rand
slumped the most in three years last month.  “Over the past few years South Africa’s gross foreign-
exchange reserves have increased to a level that more than
adequately covers our foreign obligations,” Gordhan said in a
written reply to lawmakers in  Cape Town , dated Sept. 9 and
circulated today. The government will “consider all our
options” if volatile market conditions warrant currency
intervention, he said in an interview in Johannesburg today.  The central bank has boosted gross gold and foreign-
currency reserves to $49.7 billion at the end of September, up
from $34.4 billion two years earlier, to moderate gains in the
rand and improve the competitiveness of exports. Concerns that
the European debt crisis will stall the global economic recovery
led investors to sell riskier, emerging market assets, causing
the rand to drop 12 percent in the past three months.  “If necessary, some of these reserves could be used to
ease temporary market stress in response to global market
turmoil,” Gordhan said.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy climbed as much as
1.9 percent to 7.7684 per dollar today and traded 1.6 percent
higher at 7.7885 by 2:45 p.m. in Johannesburg, erasing an
earlier decline. The rand has fallen 15 percent against the
dollar this year, trimming its gains against the U.S. currency
since the beginning of 2009 to 21 percent.  ‘Perfect Opportunity’  “It makes sense for them to sell dollars in times of rand
volatility,”  Leon Myburgh , sub-Saharan Africa strategist for
Citigroup Inc. in Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed response to
questions today. “September was a perfect opportunity for them
to sell dollars, and they did not, raising the question of how
seriously they are considering this as a policy option.”  Gill Marcus , the governor of the central bank, said she
didn’t think Gordhan’s comments signaled a shift in policy.  “The approach that we have, and consistently have had, as
government and as the bank is that it is prudent to build
reserves,” she told reporters in Cape Town today. “We still
have a commitment to steadily build reserves as and when
appropriate. We do not target a level. I can’t answer for what
the minister said in Parliament.”  South Africa’s flexible exchange rate acts as a “shock-
absorbing mechanism” in the event of capital outflows from the
country, improving exporters’ competitiveness and narrowing the
current-account deficit, Gordhan said.  Very Dangerous  “Our prudently managed fiscal and monetary policies, which
aim to keep the country’s debt burden at a sustainable level and
control inflation, are essential to support investor confidence
and reduce the probability that capital outflows become
destabilizing,” he said.  In a presentation to lawmakers, Marcus warned that the
global economy was in a “very, very dangerous situation” and
that  South Africa  needs to monitor the situation closely.  “GDP growth is slowing worldwide, with downward revisions
all the time,” she said. “There is talk of recession. The
current conditions are so severe that if this continues as it
is, you still have an enormously difficult situation. Going into
a recession would make it worse. We are now entering our fifth
year of this global crisis. If you look at the severity of the
moment, there are many more years to come before we are out of
this.”  Marcus called on the Group of 20 nations to jointly solve
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  “It’s not for us to plug gaps there. There has to be a
coherent strategy, a coordinated approach,” she said. “The
 European Central Bank  has really become the lender of last
resort to countries and it’s propping up the entire European
banking system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  