-- 
SSE to Auction All Its Power as Government Seeks Competition

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-10-12T17:06:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/sse-to-start-auctioning-electricity-it-generates-in-u-k-day-ahead-market.html
SSE Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest
power producer, plans to auction all the electricity it
generates in the day-ahead market as the government presses for
more competition in the  energy industry .  SSE will also buy all the power it needs to supply
customers, the Perth, Scotland-based company said today in a
statement. The utility plans to use Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and
Nord Pool Spot AS,’s N2EX daily power auction, Justyn Smith, an
SSE spokesman, said by telephone.  Chris Huhne , the U.K. secretary of state for energy, said
last month he wants greater competition and price transparency
for consumers as he seeks to hold back rising household energy
bills. Ofgem, the market regulator, proposed in June that
utilities be forced to auction as much as 20 percent of their
electricity to boost competition. The watchdog plans to announce
final measures before the end of the year.  “Current volumes in the market are small enough that they
can be distorted accidentally or deliberately by individual
small trades,” Ian Marchant, SSE’s chief executive officer,
said at an energy event in London. “If we have a really deep
day-ahead market, we’ll get a reliable benchmark for reliable
price discovery. So whatever prices are in the future, people
have more confidence that they are right, they are fair, they’ve
been set properly.”  ‘Restoring Confidence’  Electricity volumes in Britain,  Europe ’s third-biggest
power user after  Germany  and  France , trade at a rate of about
3.6 times annual consumption, London-based consultant Prospex
Research Ltd. said in a May 11 report. That compares with 9.4
times in Germany, it said.  SSE will start increasing electricity sales on Oct. 14 and
expects to be trading all its power through the auction by the
end of the financial year. The company’s average daily demand is
about 165 gigawatt-hours, it said in the statement.  The N2EX platform, host of the U.K.’s biggest power
auction, handled 39 gigawatt-hours in its auction today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. SSE said a further 200
gigawatt-hours of day-ahead power is usually traded through
brokered markets.  SSE’s measure “is another step by the energy suppliers to
try to restore political and public confidence in the market,”
 Ashley Thomas , a London-based analyst at MF Global, said by e-
mail. Full auctioning “ultimately improves price transparency,
lowers barriers to entry for competition and helps the smaller
operators.”  Big Six  Electricite de France SA is the largest power producer in
the U.K. while  Centrica Plc (CNA)  is the biggest energy supplier. They
compete with SSE, EON AG,  RWE AG (RWE)  and  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s Scottish
Power. The six companies supply 99 percent of Britain’s
electricity and natural gas.  Centrica said by e-mail plans to auction all volumes
through the day-ahead market “could actually exacerbate the
risks for suppliers and could lead to more price volatility for
customers.” EON will gradually increase the volumes it puts
through the daily auction, Sara Vaughan, EON’s director of
regulation and energy policy, said by e-mail. The company has
traded 22 percent of its generation through the exchange so far
this year, she said.  ‘Negligible’ Cost  The actual cost to SSE of increasing trading through the
auction is “negligible,” said the spokesman, Smith.  The N2EX exchange said Sept. 19 it’s looking to start a so-
called gross bidding agreement that would offer capped fees to
utilities that commit to trading all generation and consumption
in its auction. Higher volumes in N2EX’s daily auction may
increase confidence in its price, which is used to create the
exchange’s futures market, designed in 2008 by the U.K.’s power-
trading forum as a way to boost competition. Energy companies
trade electricity as long as two years in advance to lock in
profits.  “In theory, it should lead to liquidity in the day-ahead
market without taking liquidity from future contracts,” Jayesh
Parmar, a London-based consultant at Baringa Partners LLP, said
in a telephone interview.  SSE said it will continue to trade in the forward market.
The company generated 47,500 gigawatt-hours of power last year,
almost 15 percent of U.K. electricity demand, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Airlie in  London  at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 