-- 
Standard Life Sues Over Pension Fund Losses

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-10-12T16:17:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/standard-life-sues-insurers-over-u-k-pension-fund-s-losses.html
Standard Life Plc (SL/)  sued insurers
including ACE European Group Ltd. for 100 million pounds ($157
million) claiming its policy should have covered a loss on
asset-backed securities triggered by the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   Standard Life, which is based in Edinburgh and manages
about 157 billion pounds, was forced to inject 100 million
pounds into its Standard Life Pension Sterling Fund in 2009
during the credit-market contraction that followed Lehman’s 2008
failure, according to documents filed at a London court. Because
the fund was marketed as a low-risk, cash-based investment, the
losses led to hundreds of complaints and media criticism.  Sandy Crombie, Standard Life’s former chief executive
officer and chairman, testified in court today that the
marketing literature for the fund had been “hopelessly
inadequate.” The company’s response to the losses was motivated
by a desire to do “the right thing,” he said.  Standard Life is suing ACE European Group, a London-based
affiliate of ACE Ltd., and 10 other firms that provided
professional indemnity insurance which it said should cover the
costs. The Standard Life Pension Sterling Fund, which was valued
at 2.2 billion pounds and had 97,000 customers at the end of
2008, invested around half its value in debt securities.  The case relates to the decision by Standard Life to make a
payment of about 100 million pounds into the fund in February
2009, “something the insurers have refused to indemnify,”
Standard Life spokesman Paul Keeble said in an e-mailed
statement.  Clair Whitefield, a spokeswoman for ACE, declined to
comment on the litigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  