-- 
Stanford Bank Liquidators Dispute Predecessor’s $18 Million Fee

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-10-12T10:13:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/stanford-bank-liquidators-dispute-predecessor-s-18-million-fee.html
The firm originally appointed to
wind up R. Allen Stanford’s bank charged $18 million in fees
while recovering around $300,000 for victims of the fraud,
according  Grant Thornton  LLP, the bank’s new liquidator which is
seeking to have the bill reduced.  Grant Thornton partner Hugh Dickson said his firm was
challenging the Vantis Plc bill in an Antigua court. “We are
trying to reduce that number considerably,” he said.  Vantis, which was removed as Antiguan liquidator of
Stanford International Bank in May, has asked a court to approve
its fees. The firm recovered around $300,000 of assets before
being replaced, Grant Thornton said in a Web presentation to
Stanford creditors and victims yesterday.  Efforts in the U.S. and Antigua to unwind Stanford’s
alleged $7 billion  Ponzi scheme  have produced little to return
to victims and creditors. As of January, U.S-appointed receiver
Ralph Janvey had freed up $94.7 million in cash and filed
lawsuits with a potential value of $595 million. Stanford is in
custody in the U.S and is to be tried for fraud next year.  An Antiguan judge replaced Vantis in May following a
request by creditors. Vantis went into administration last year.
Its business-recovery operations were bought out by former
managers and was renamed FRP Advisory LLP.  “We are in dialogue with Grant Thornton regarding the
costs incurred prior to them taking office,” FRP partner Nigel Hamilton Smith said. “Our main objective is to find a sensible
solution, which does not result in lengthy court time and
further delays.”  Grant Thornton has identified up to $1.5 billion which it
wants to return to more than 20,000 Stanford victims and
creditors it represents, the firm said yesterday. That figure
includes property valued at $300 million, securities worth $250
million and potential returns of as much as $1 billion from
lawsuits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  