-- 
State Bonds Poised to Beat U.S. Cities as Housing Hurts Taxes: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-10-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/state-bonds-poised-to-beat-u-s-cities-as-housing-hurts-taxes-muni-credit.html
State-government bonds, which have
underperformed local debt by the most in 14 months, may be
poised to pull ahead as flagging property-tax revenue threatens
budgets in U.S. cities and counties.  That may benefit  Virginia ’s sale of $167 million of bonds
this week. It’s the state’s first general-obligation issue since
Moody’s Investors Service placed its top credit rating on review
on July 19 because of dependence on federal spending.  U.S. states’ revenue jumped 10 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, driven by personal-income and sales
taxes, the  Census Bureau  said last month. It was the most since
2006 and the sixth straight gain. Property-tax collections, the
main income source for localities, dropped 1 percent.  “Total-return performance potential for larger, liquid
state names offer better prospects, given the recent data,”
James Ahn, who manages $1 billion of short- and intermediate-
term municipals at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, said in a
telephone interview.  States can also pass on reductions in federal aid and shift
responsibility for services to local governments to close budget
deficits, said Howard Cure, director of municipal-credit
research for Evercore Wealth Management LLC in New York, which
manages $2.9 billion of municipal debt.  California, which cut spending on schools and the poor this
year to erase a $26 billion projected  budget deficit , plans to
move thousands of criminals from state control to county lockups
under a plan by Governor  Jerry Brown .  Local Burden  “States have to balance their budgets,” Cure said in a
telephone interview. “They’re going to do it to a large extent
on the backs of local governments.”  Bonds sold by cities, counties and municipalities returned
6.86 percent from April 11 through Oct. 10, while state-level
debt produced 5.88 percent, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index that tracks prices and interest income.
That’s the biggest six-month outperformance for localities
against states since the similar period ended Feb. 10, 2010.  Virginia is one of 15 states with Moody’s top  credit
rating . A general-obligation bond sold by the state in October
2009 and maturing in June 2028 traded Oct. 4 at an average yield
of 3.12 percent.  That’s 45 basis points less than an index of AAA general-
obligation debt maturing in 17 years and unchanged from the last
trade before Moody’s July announcement of a possible downgrade.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Negative Outlook  Moody’s gave Virginia and four other top-rated states --
 Maryland ,  South Carolina ,  Tennessee  and  New Mexico  -- a negative
outlook because federal spending drives a large part of their
economies. That makes them vulnerable to actions of a
Congressional supercommittee charged with finding $1.5 trillion
of U.S. budget savings over the next decade.  The effects on Virginia and the other states won’t be taken
into account by investors until the committee issues its
recommendations, set for Nov. 23, Cure said.  “I don’t think people are that concerned about it yet,”
Cure said. “It will come into play more once they get a sense
of what’s going on with attempts to balance the federal
budget.”  Moody’s said Oct. 4 it will analyze Virginia’s “available
financial resources to offset risks related to the U.S.
government.”  Revenue Gains  Governor Robert McDonnell announced  on Sept. 15  that August
was the 17th month of 18 where Virginia’s tax collections rose
from a year earlier. The Republican said on  Aug. 18  that the
commonwealth ended fiscal 2011 with a $545 million  budget
surplus . He proposed using $30 million of it to help alleviate
potential U.S. spending cuts.  Proceeds from this week’s bond sale will finance a
residence hall at Virginia State University and dormitories at
the College of William and Mary and at  George Mason University ,
according to the preliminary offering statement. Dormitory fees
will repay the debt, Evelyn Whitley, Virginia’s director of debt
management, said in a telephone interview from Richmond.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt:  CALIFORNIA  plans to sell $2 billion of general-obligation
bonds as soon as next week to finance capital projects and
refund existing debt. Goldman Sachs & Co. and JPMorgan Chase
will lead a team of banks on the deal. The transaction is rated
A1, Moody’s fifth-highest grade. (Added Oct. 12)  HUDSON YARDS INFRASTRUCTURE CORP., which finances
development of a district west of midtown  Manhattan , plans to
sell $1 billion of bonds as soon as next week to help pay for
extending the No. 7 subway line to the neighborhood. The sale is
rated A2, Moody’s sixth-highest grade. JPMorgan Chase is senior
manager. (Added Oct. 7)  COLORADO HEALTH FACILITIES AUTHORITY, which issues hospital
debt, will sell $309 million of revenue bonds as soon as Oct.
12. Proceeds will finance capital projects for Catholic Health
Initiatives, part of the CHI Credit Group, a multistate health-
care provider. The sale is rated AA, S&P’s third-highest grade.
JPMorgan Chase will underwrite the deal. (Updated Oct. 12)  CITY AND COUNTY OF HONOLULU will sell $232 million of
wastewater-system revenue bonds as soon as Oct. 13 to finance
capital improvements and refinance debt. The utility system
serves about 640,000 residents across 600 square miles. The
bonds are rated AA, Fitch Rating’s third-highest grade. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch will underwrite the deal. (Added Oct. 12)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  