-- 
Stockbrokers Balk at Australian Fees to Fund New Regulator

-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 
2011-10-12T06:06:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/stockbrokers-balk-at-australian-charges-to-fund-new-regulator.html
Plans to make users of  Australia ’s
securities markets pay some of the costs of regulation are too
expensive and unfair, according to brokers, exchanges and
industry associations.  The complaints are contained in industry  responses  to a
 plan  by the Australian Treasury to raise almost A$30 million
($29.9 million) in the first 18 months toward the budget of the
 Australian Securities and Investments Commission , the country’s
market regulator. The government is proposing flat supervision
fees for exchanges based on market share, charges for the cost
to connect to new technology platforms and imposts for both
trades and computer messages for market participants.  ASIC, as the regulator is known, took over direct
supervision of financial markets in August 2010 from the
country’s main bourse,  ASX Ltd.. (ASX)  The transfer was part of a plan
by the  Labor Party  government of Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  to
turn Australia into a financial hub by introducing competition
in the Asia-Pacific’s fourth-largest equity market. Opponents of
the charges say the plan will deter new operators.  “It doesn’t make it as attractive for people to set up in
Australia and it is not helping Australia become a regional
financial hub,” David Horsfield, managing director and chief
executive officer of the  Stockbrokers Association of Australia ,
told Bloomberg News in a telephone interview. “We believe that
it will create an unfair and inequitable financial burden for
brokers.”  First Competitor  Chi-X Australia Pty, which has won approval to launch an
alternative trading platform in Australia this month, making it
the first foreign-owned market operator since the country’s
original stock market opened in the southern city of  Melbourne 
in 1861, says the charges put its planned venture at a
disadvantage. ASX’s international ambitions were dented in April
when Treasurer  Wayne Swan  rejected a merger of the bourse with
 Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , saying the move amounted to a takeover
and wasn’t in the national interest.  The total estimated cost recovered by Treasury from the
charges will be A$29.8 million in 18 months from January 1, 2012,
to June 30, 2013. The charges will be reviewed after that.  Under Treasury’s plan, 16 percent of the cost will be borne
by market operators, to be split between Chi-X and ASX, and 84
percent by market participants. Chi-X’s share of that 16 percent
was calculated based on the assumption that it would capture 2.5
percent of market share within its first two months of operation.  Government Should Pay  The Stockbrokers Association, which represents
institutional and retail trading firms and investment banks,
 estimates  the average cost per broker over the 18 months will be
A$318,000 and that larger users will pay between A$2 million and
A$3 million.  Government should meet the cost of regulation instead of
market participants because of the benefits that a strong
financial market provides to all Australians, Horsfield said.  A major point of contention among industry participants is
a proposed fee related to computer messaging by brokers using
ASIC’s computer system to execute trades. A draft consultation
by Treasury says it intends to charge more to those with greater
trading volume.  A  response  submitted by the  Australian Financial Markets
Association , which represents more than 140 banks, brokers,
securities companies, fund managers and trading companies, notes
this inherently charges more to traders using high-frequency
strategies.  Fewer Messages  Several of the responses, including  one  from Getco
Australia Pty, an automated trading firm, noted that this
message fee could lead to firms sending fewer messages, which
would reduce liquidity and widen spreads.  The Chi-X  response  called the plan “fundamentally
unfair.”  ASX  supported  the proposed cost allocation in its response
to Treasury. Still, the country’s main exchange joined other
respondents in disputing Treasury’s claim that increased
competition would reduce spreads and offset the costs.  Treasury is considering the industry responses and has said
it will issue the final fee structure before January 1, 2012.
Andre Khoury, a spokesman for ASIC, declined to comment and
directed enquiries to the Treasury.  An e-mail from Treasury’s communications department said
draft regulations will be released for further industry comment
in the coming weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net  