-- 
Strip Searches of Newly Arrested Questioned by U.S. Supreme Court Justices

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-10-12T18:52:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/strip-searches-of-newly-arrested-questioned-by-high-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court questioned
whether jails can constitutionally search the private body parts
of all new prisoners, including those arrested for traffic
violations.  During an hour-long argument full of graphic descriptions
of jailhouse strip-search protocols, the justices today sought
to draw a line that would both prevent the smuggling of weapons
and drugs and protect the privacy interests of people arrested
for minor violations.  Several justices questioned whether jails needed to strip-
search people charged with nonviolent offenses, pointing to
studies indicating that intrusive searches of such people rarely
uncover hidden items.  “It’s very hard to find somebody who really was in this
minor offender category who really was found to have
contraband,” Justice  Stephen Breyer  said.  In the case before the justices, Albert W. Florence says he
was strip-searched twice during the week he was jailed following
his arrest for failing to pay a years-old fine -- a penalty that
in reality he had already paid. Florence is suing officials from
two New Jersey counties -- Burlington and Essex -- over the
searches.  Fourth Amendment  Federal appeals courts around the country are divided on
the issue, which turns on the Constitution’s Fourth Amendment.
Florence argues that officials must have “reasonable
suspicion” to perform an intrusive strip search on people
charged with minor offenses.  Both sides in the case today sought to narrow the issues
before the court. The lawyer for the two counties,  Carter Phillips , said jail officials might be barred from touching
inmates during a search.  Florence’s lawyer, Thomas Goldstein, allowed that jails
could perform body-cavity inspections on certain categories of
inmates, such as those charged with violent offenses. He also
said all new inmates could be required to strip naked and shower
in front of guards, as long as officials stopped short of a
close-range search of a prisoner’s genitals and anus.  That distinction was lost on Justice  Sonia Sotomayor .  “It’s OK to stand five feet away, but not two?” she
asked. She added, “That’s a line that doesn’t make much sense
to me.”  Traffic Stop  According to his complaint, Florence was riding with his
wife and 4-year-old child in a BMW sports-utility vehicle when a
New Jersey state trooper stopped the family for a traffic
offense.  The complaint says the trooper discovered that Florence was
wanted on a bench warrant in Essex County. The officer
handcuffed Florence and placed him under arrest, allegedly
ignoring an official document the man presented to show that he
had paid the fine. Florence says he carried the letter because
of a tendency of officers to pull over black men driving nice
cars.  Florence was driven to the Burlington County Jail, where he
says he was taken into a stall with a partially opened curtain,
ordered to disrobe and made to lift his tongue, arms and
genitals in front of an officer. He says he was transferred to
an Essex County facility six days later and strip-searched
again, this time along with four other men.  “It’s laugh out loud funny to think he is smuggling
something into this jail,” Goldstein argued.  ‘Disturbing’ Arrest  Florence says he saw a judge for the first time the
following day and was ordered to be immediately released.  Phillips, the counties’ lawyer, called Florence’s improper
arrest “disturbing.” At the same time, the attorney said
jailers shouldn’t be forced to pick and choose which inmates to
subject to a full-scale search. He urged the justices to respect
the “good-faith judgment of our jailers.”  Justice  Anthony Kennedy  suggested he agreed with that
reasoning, telling Goldstein that a search-everybody policy
ensures that officers won’t single out inmates on the basis of
race or some other improper factor.  “Your rule imperils individual dignity in a way that the
blanket rule does not,” Kennedy said.  Justice  Antonin Scalia  said he was skeptical that the
searches of Florence amounted to a constitutional violation.  Obama Position  “At the time the Fourth Amendment was adopted, this was
standard practice, to strip search people who were admitted to
prisons,” Scalia said. “So how could it be deemed an
unreasonable invasion of privacy when it was done all the time
and nobody thought it was unconstitutional?”  The Obama administration argued alongside the counties,
urging the court to give jail officials broad latitude. Nicole
Saharsky, a Justice Department lawyer, said federal jail
officials don’t have enough information to decide whether a
particular inmate needs to be searched.  “They have name, date of birth and the offense the person
was charged with,” she said. “They don’t have anything else.”  Goldstein argued that the federal prison system already
requires reasonable suspicion in the case of people arrested for
minor offenses.  The original fine against Florence stemmed from a 1998
guilty plea for fleeing a traffic stop, according to Burlington
County. Florence eventually paid $1,310, the county said.  A Philadelphia-based federal appeals court said the
counties’ policies were reasonable ways to prevent prisoners
from smuggling in weapons and drugs.  The case is Florence v. Board of Chosen Freeholders of the
County of Burlington, 10-945.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 