-- 
Indian Inflation Must Ease Before Interest Rates Can Be Cut, Subbarao Says

-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-10-13T11:46:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/subbarao-says-india-s-inflation-needs-to-slow-for-lower-rates.html
India ’s inflation must ease before
the central bank can reduce interest rates, Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said, signaling policy makers may maintain a tight
monetary stance for now.  “We are deeply sensitive in making India a low interest-
rate regime but that will take time,” Subbarao said in the
northern Indian city of Jaipur yesterday. “First, we need to
bring inflation down in order to bring interest rates down.”  Emerging-market nations from  Brazil  to  South Korea  have
turned from fighting price gains to supporting growth as a
struggling U.S. recovery and deepening debt crisis in  Europe 
threaten the global economy. In India, the fastest inflation in
more than a year is sustaining pressure for higher borrowing
costs even as consumer demand wanes.  “Even though there are signs of demand weakening, India’s
central bank can’t afford to lower its guard as yet because
inflation is at a high level,” said Arun Singh, Mumbai-based
senior economist at Dun & Bradstreet Information Services India
Pvt. He expects the  Reserve Bank  of India to raise its
repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 8.5
percent in the Oct. 25 policy meeting.  “Whether we will be pausing the hikes or whether we will
be continuing with hiking, it’s not clear,” Subbarao said,
adding that he would “consult experts and discuss internally”
and announce the decision in this month’s policy review.  Bond Yield  The yield on the 7.8 percent note due April 2021 fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.72 percent as of
4:18 p.m. in Mumbai. The BSE India Sensitive Index dropped 0.4
percent and the rupee declined 0.3 percent to 49.12 per dollar.
The currency has weakened 9 percent this year, the worst
performer in  Asia , boosting import costs.  “Money is moving out of emerging markets and India and
that is putting pressure on the rupee,” Reserve Bank Deputy
Governor Subir Gokarn said in Jaipur yesterday, before the
central bank’s board meeting today. He said oil and food costs
are stoking inflationary pressures in India.  India’s food inflation rate stood at 9.32 percent in the
week ended Oct. 1, exceeding 9 percent for a third straight
week, according to a commerce ministry statement today.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation rate was
probably 9.75 percent in September, holding near a 13-month high
reached in August, the median of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey showed. The commerce ministry will release the data
tomorrow.  Domestic Focus  “We are aware that some central banks in Asia and some
outside Asia have reversed”  interest rates , Subbarao said today
in Jaipur. “As much as we look at what the other central banks
are doing, we take into account our own domestic circumstances
and the domestic context in formulating our policy.”  Inflation is a political issue in India as it erodes
spending power in a nation where the  World Bank  estimates more
than three-quarters of the population live on less than $2 a
day.  “In calibrating interest rates, the RBI takes into account
the need of the industry, which wants interest rates low as well
as the need of the poor, who want low inflation,” Subbarao said
yesterday. “We have had to raise rates to combat inflation.”  In his most recent policy decision on Sept. 16, Subbarao
raised the central bank’s repurchase rate by a quarter point to
8.25 percent. He said on Sept. 26 that inflation will slow by
March 2012, “but more slowly than initially expected.”  Inflation Forecast  The governor in July predicted inflation to ease to 7
percent by March 31. He forecast  India’s economy  to expand about
8 percent in the year through March from 8.5 percent in the
previous year.  Subbarao has boosted the Reserve Bank’s benchmark rate by
350 basis points since mid-March 2010, the fastest round of
increases since the central bank was established in 1935,
Bloomberg data show.  That’s curbing consumer demand. Sales at companies
including  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s biggest
carmaker, fell 1.8 percent in September, the third straight
monthly decline, the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers 
said Oct. 10.  India’s industrial production rose less than expected in
August, the  Central Statistical Office  said yesterday. Output at
factories, utilities and mines increased 4.1 percent from a year
earlier, slower than the 4.7 percent median of 20 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “Bringing inflation under control, that remains and
sustains at some comfortable level over a period of time, is the
primary objective of our policy,” Gokarn said yesterday. “It
may cause some disruptions. Moderation of growth is the price we
pay but the alternate could be much worse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  