-- 
Switzerland Stocks Advance After Olli Rehn Says Europe Can Avert Calamity

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-10-12T16:15:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/swiss-stocks-fall-transocean-kuehne-nagel-lead-declines.html
Swiss stocks advanced after Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said there is a
fairly good chance of averting calamity in Europe.  Adecco SA (ADEN)  jumped 5.1 percent after  Standard & Poor’s 
upgraded its  credit rating .  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s largest
watchmaker, and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the owner of the
Cartier brand, rose after Burberry Group Plc reported sales that
beat analysts’ estimates.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, increased 0.9 percent to 5,781.13 in
Zurich. The gauge has retreated 14 percent from its high this
year on Feb. 18. The broader Swiss Performance Index also rose
0.9 percent today.  “What’s rebounding are cyclical sectors,” said John Plassard, director at Louis Capital Markets in Geneva. “The
publication of Burberry earnings, showing growth in  China , is
important. Burberry is an indicator.”  Rehn, in a pre-recorded speech to a Dublin conference, said
consensus on resolving  Europe ’s debt crisis is in the making. He
said economic growth is stalling and Europe is in “a very
dangerous place.”  He said “calamity” can be avoided through coordinated
action, increasing banks’ capital and enhancing growth.  Slovakia Vote  Slovakia, the only country that hasn’t ratified the revised
European Financial Stability Facility, is heading for a second
vote after failing to approve it yesterday. The rejection also
triggered the fall of Iveta Radicova’s government, as the vote
was tied with a no-confidence motion.  Slovak Foreign Minister Mikulas Dzurinda said lawmakers may
vote on the bailout fund tomorrow.  Adecco surged 5.1 percent to 42.54 Swiss francs. S&P
upgraded the company to BBB/A-2 from BBB/A-3 with a stable
outlook, reversing a downgrade in April 2009.  Swatch rallied 3.2 percent to 356.4 francs. Richemont
advanced 2.4 percent to 47.48 francs.  Burberry, the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods maker, reported
fiscal second-quarter sales that beat analysts’ estimates and
dispelled concern over slowing demand. Burberry’s first-half
sales in Asia-Pacific rose 52 percent.  Syngenta, the world’s biggest maker of agricultural
chemicals, climbed 2.5 percent to 264.9 francs, after gaining
3.4 percent over the past two days. Clariant, the largest maker
of printing-ink chemicals, jumped 6.4 percent to 9.76 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  