-- 
Syrian-American Accused of Spying on Dissidents in U.S.

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-12T20:14:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/syrian-american-charged-with-spying-on-home-country-dissidents-inside-u-s-.html
A Syrian immigrant living in the
 Washington  suburbs was accused of spying on U.S.-based
dissidents for his native country’s secret police and charged
with failing to register as a foreign agent.  Mohamad Anas Haitham Soueid, 47, was arrested yesterday on
six charges alleging he conspired to collect video and audio
recordings of people in the U.S. and Syria who have protested
against the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Soueid,
of Leesburg, Virginia, provided the materials to Syrian
intelligence agencies, according to his indictment.  “Spying for another country is a serious threat to our
national security, especially when it threatens the ability of
U.S. citizens to engage in political speech within our own
borders,” U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride of Alexandria,  Virginia ,
said in a statement.  The Syrian embassy in Washington said “neither Mr. Soueid
nor any other citizen of the U.S. is an agent of the Syrian
government” in an e-mail statement.  “The accusation that a U.S. citizen is working with the
Syrian government to intimidate U.S. citizens is absolutely
baseless and totally unacceptable,” said the Syrian embassy
statement.  As part of the conspiracy, Soueid allegedly recruited
others in the U.S. to help collect information on the
protesters.  Syrian Intelligence  From April 2 until June 10, Soueid e-mailed a co-
conspirator working for Syria’s intelligence agency 20 audio and
video recordings of rallies or meetings of protesters, including
one held in Alexandria, the indictment alleges. Soueid also
allegedly collected the phone numbers and e-mail addresses of
the protesters.  On June 22, Soueid traveled to  Syria  where he met with
intelligence officials and spoke with al-Assad in private,
according to the indictment.  Soueid and others conspired to use the information to
“undermine, silence, intimidate and potentially harm persons in
the United States and Syria,” the indictment alleges.  The charges against Soueid include conspiring to act and
acting as an agent of the Syrian government without notifying
the attorney general, two counts of providing false statements
on a firearms purchase form and two counts of making false
statements to federal law enforcement officials.  Soueid is scheduled to appear in U.S. District Court in
Alexandria today. If convicted, he faces as long as 15 years in
prison on the conspiracy and firearms charges and 10 years on
the false statement charges.  Civil Suit  Soueid is also included as a defendant in a civil suit
filed in May in U.S. District Court in Washington by six Syrian
natives who claim that they or their family members were subject
to abuse by the Syrian government. No lawyer is listed for
Souied in the civil case and no attorney has appeared yet in the
criminal one. Efforts to find a telephone number for him were
unsuccessful.  In that case, Soueid, identified by a purported alias, Anas
Alswaid, is described as being as “an integral part of the
criminal conspiracy to torture, maim, and kill Syrians,”
according to the plaintiffs’ May 10 complaint.  “Through his efforts, the al-Assad regime learns the
identities of Syrians based in the  United States , who are trying
to assist in efforts to counteract the tactics of the al-Assad
regime,” the lawsuit alleges. “He transmits such information
to Damascus to initiate criminal conduct against the families of
the identified Syrians.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Soueid, 11-494, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria). The civil case
is Aziz v. The Syrian Arab Republic, 11-00876, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 