-- 
U.K. Stocks Advance on Euro-Area Optimism; Banks, Insurers Rally

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-10-12T16:13:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/u-k-stocks-advance-as-burberry-mining-company-shares-rally.html
U.K. stocks climbed to their highest
level in more than two months, led by a rally in financial and
mining companies, amid growing optimism that euro-area policy
makers will contain the region’s debt crisis.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Aviva Plc (AV/)  both jumped more than 5 percent
in London trading.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  and  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) 
climbed with metal prices.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  gained 3.5 percent
after the retailer posted sales that topped analysts’ estimates.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  gained 46.1, or 0.9 percent,
to 5,441.8 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, its highest level
since Aug. 3. The gauge earlier fell as much as 0.9 percent. The
FTSE All-Share Index gained 1 percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index rose 1.9 percent in Dublin.  “The bias in the market does appear to be on the upside,”
said Yusuf Heusen, a sales trader at IG Index in  London . “With
sentiment turning positive for now -- and evidence that there’s
an awful lot of uninvested cash out there -- further gains may
follow.”  Stocks climbed as European Commissioner for Economic and
Monetary Affairs, Olli Rehn, said the region is moving toward a
consensus on resolving the “calamity.”  Slovakia, the only
country that hasn’t ratified a revised bailout fund, will hold a
second vote on Oct. 14 at the latest after failing to approve
the European Financial Stability Facility yesterday.  Barroso Speech  European Commission President Jose Barroso called for a
reinforcement of crisis-hit banks, the payout of a sixth loan to
Greece and a faster start for a permanent rescue fund to master
Europe’s debt woes.  “Reactive and piecemeal responses to different aspects of
the crisis are no longer sufficient,” Barroso told the European
Parliament in Brussels today. “We now need to get ahead of the
curve.”  Barclays led banks higher, rallying 6.4 percent to 187
pence, while  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  advanced 2 percent
to 25.81 pence. Insurers Aviva Plc and  Prudential Plc (PRU)  climbed
5.6 percent to 343.5 pence and 3.7 percent to 636.5 pence,
respectively.  Antofagasta paced mining shares higher, jumping 6.9 percent
to 1,151 pence as copper gained in London. Kazakhmys Plc climbed
5.5 percent to 932 pence and  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  rose 4.1
percent to 1,263 pence.  Copper rose as shrinking Asian inventories of the metal
signaled steady demand from the region, including China, the
world’s largest consumer of the metal. Stockpiles in Asia
monitored by the LME fell for a 21st session in 22. Regional
inventories dropped for a fourth month in September.  Randgold Resources, Fresnillo  Randgold Resources jumped 2.9 percent to 6,595 pence as
gold advanced in London. The shares also climbed after rival
 Fresnillo Plc (FRES)  raised its gold-output forecast.  Fresnillo’s shares still dropped, falling 2 percent to
1,665 pence after the world’s largest primary silver miner
lowered its full-year output target.  Burberry climbed 3.5 percent to 1,308 pence. The U.K.’s
largest luxury-goods maker reported fiscal second-quarter sales
that beat analysts’ estimates and dispelled concern over slowing
demand with plans to add 15 percent to its average retail space.  Revenue in the three months ended Sept. 30 rose to 463
million pounds ($730 million) from 382 million pounds a year
earlier. That beat the average analyst estimate of 447.8 million
pounds in a Bloomberg survey.  Travis Perkins, Man  Travis Perkins Plc (TPK)  jumped 8.9 percent to 865 pence after
the U.K.’s biggest building merchant reiterated its full-year
forecast. The company also said nine-month sales matched its
estimates.  Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s largest hedge fund manager,
tumbled 6 percent to 156.3 pence after the net asset value of
its flagship AHL Diversified fund fell 5.5 percent in the week
through Oct. 10.  Premier Foods Plc (PFD)  tumbled 20 percent to 3.78 pence as
analysts at Exane BNP Paribas cut their price estimate for the
shares to 1 pence from 10 pence. Fitch Ratings also downgraded
its long-term insurer default rating for the company to BB- from
BB. Fitch has a negative outlook on the maker of Branston
pickle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  