-- 
U.S. House Panel Said to Plan Hearing on Volcker Rule Proposal

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-10-12T20:42:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/u-s-house-panel-said-to-plan-hearing-on-volcker-rule-proposal.html
U.S. House lawmakers will examine a
nearly 300-page  proposal  to ban banks from trading for their own
accounts, adding another level of scrutiny to the rule proposed
by four federal regulators this week.  Representative  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama Republican who
leads the House Financial Services Committee, is planning to
hold a hearing on the proposal, according to a House Republican
aide who requested anonymity to discuss the panel’s planning.  The so-called Volcker rule “may spark a mass exodus of
clients from U.S. banks to banks abroad,” Bachus said in a
letter to regulators last November. He sought to delay the rule
during final negotiations over last year’s Dodd-Frank Act until
there was international agreement on its provisions.  Lawmakers included the rule, named for former Federal
Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , in last year’s regulatory
overhaul to keep banks from jeopardizing customer deposits with
high-risk trading strategies. The measure covers banks with
access to federal  deposit insurance  and comparatively cheap Fed
loans as well as their holding companies and affiliates.  The Fed, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and Securities and Exchange
Commission approved the release of the proposal for comment.
Regulators will take comment on the proposal until January 13.  Trade groups for the largest banks have complained that the
regulators’ proposal lacks specificity and faulted what they say
are inflexible exemptions for market-making. Consumer groups are
seeking elimination of some of the exemptions for activities
such as market-making, underwriting and risk hedging.  Moody’s Investors Service said the rule would be “credit
negative” for bondholders of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup
Inc (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , “all of which have substantial market-making
operations.”  Fox Business reported plans for the hearing earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  