-- 
U.S. Justice Department Sets Up ‘Hotline’ For Alabama Immigration Law

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-10-12T21:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/u-s-justice-department-sets-up-hotline-for-alabama-immigration-law.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  set up a
hotline to field complaints about new  Alabama  immigration laws
that the federal government went to court to block.  The phone line and an accompanying e-mail address were
established “for the public to report potential civil rights
concerns related to the impact” of the laws, Xochitl Hinojosa,
a Justice Department spokeswoman, said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The U.S. is appealing a Sept. 28 ruling by U.S. District
Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn in Birmingham, Alabama, that
permits the state to enforce much of the legislation signed in
June by Governor Robert Bentley. Rebekah Mason, a spokeswoman
for Bentley, didn’t immediately respond to a phone message
seeking comment on the Justice Department announcement.  Arguing that only the U.S. can set immigration policy, the
federal government sued to bar measures that allow police to
question the immigration status of people detained for other
reasons, that criminalize the failure of unregistered aliens to
carry or produce necessary documents, and that make it a felony
for those unlawfully in the country to do business with the
state or any of its political subdivisions.  ‘Short Shrift’  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has asked a U.S.
appeals court in Atlanta to block those provisions until it
rules on the federal appeal. Alabama Attorney General Luther Strange, in papers filed with the appeals court yesterday,
opposed the interim relief request, arguing that granting it
would give “short shrift” to complex and important issues.  Blackburn barred the enforcement of parts of the act that
made it illegal for unregistered aliens to apply for jobs or
work in the state, as well as a provision making it a crime to
transport or harbor them.  The appellate court has ordered expedited briefing on the
substantive issues in the case. The U.S. must make its
submission by Oct. 31. Alabama, which is also challenging some
of the Blackburn rulings, has until Nov. 22 to respond.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  and Southern Poverty Law
Center, which sued on behalf of a coalition of other civil
rights organizations, are appealing parts of Blackburn’s Sept.
28 decision in their case.  The cases are U.S. v. State of Alabama, 11-14532, and
Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama v. Bentley, 11-14535,
11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  