-- 
U.S. Imposes Terrorism Sanctions on Iran’s Mahan Air

-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 
2011-10-12T16:09:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/u-s-treasury-imposes-terrorism-sanctions-on-iran-s-mahan-air.html
The U.S. imposed sanctions on Mahan
Air, an Iranian commercial airline accused of “secretly
ferrying operatives, weapons and funds” on behalf of the
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.  Mahan Air is “yet another facet of the IRGC’s extensive
infiltration of Iran’s commercial sector to facilitate its
support for terrorism,” said Treasury Under Secretary for
Terrorism and Financial Intelligence  David Cohen , in an e-mailed
statement.  Under the designation, U.S. persons are prohibited from
engaging in commercial or financial transactions with Mahan Air,
and any assets it may hold under U.S. jurisdiction are frozen,
the Treasury release said.  The Treasury said that the Tehran-based airline provides
transportation, funds transfers and personnel travel services to
the Qods Force, the foreign operations unit of the IRGC.  The U.S. Justice Department yesterday alleged that an
Iranian member of the Qods Force directed and helped finance a
plot to kill the Saudi ambassador to the  United States .  “Following the revelation about the IRGC-QF’s use of the
international financial system to fund its murder-for-hire plot,
today’s action highlights further the undeniable risks of doing
business with  Iran ,” said Cohen.  Mahan Air transported Qods Force personnel to  Syria  for
military training as well as facilitating “covert travel” by
suspected Qods Force officers, the Treasury statement said.
Mahan Air crews also facilitated arms shipments and money
transfers to evade trade restrictions, the statement said.  The Treasury said Mahan Air provides transportation to
Hezbollah, the Shiite Muslim group in Lebanon, which the U.S.
and  Israel  classify as a terrorist organization. In addition,
the Treasury said, Mahan Air has omitted from cargo manifests
“secret weapons shipments” for Hezbollah.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  