-- 
U.S. Stocks Rally, Briefly Erasing Dow’s 2011 Loss, on Europe

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-12T21:20:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/u-s-stock-futures-climb-on-speculation-of-debt-crisis-consensus.html
U.S. stocks rose, briefly erasing
the Dow Jones Industrial Average’s 2011 loss, as European
leaders provided a road map to tame the debt crisis and the
Federal Reserve said it discussed further asset purchases.  Financial and industrial shares rose the most among 10
groups in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  jumped at least 2.7 percent, following
a rally in European lenders.  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  3M Co. (MMM) 
added more than 1.6 percent to pace gains among companies most-
reliant on economic growth. PepsiCo Inc., the largest snack-food
maker, increased 2.9 percent as profit beat analysts’ estimates.  The S&P 500 advanced 1 percent to 1,207.25 at 4 p.m. New
York time, rallying 4.5 percent in three days. The index rose as
much as 2.1 percent earlier before paring gains in the final
hour of trading. The Dow climbed 102.55 points, or 0.9 percent,
to 11,518.85. The 30-stock gauge is down 0.5 percent for 2011.  “The market doesn’t want to turn back lower,” Liam Dalton, chief executive officer of Axiom Capital Management
Inc., in New York, which oversees $1.8 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “The process in  Europe  is likely to be
resolved. There are a lot of things that can go right or wrong.
Still, we’re building off of what looks like an oversold low.”  The Dow has gained 8.1 percent since reaching this year’s
closing low on Oct. 3 amid optimism European leaders will tame
the region’s debt crisis and after American economic data
improved. Before that, the gauge had slumped as much as 17
percent from this year’s high on April 29 amid concern that
Europe’s crisis would slow down the economic recovery.  Trading Range  The  S&P 500  had the biggest rally over seven days since
March 2009, climbing 9.8 percent. The rebound has yet to bring
the S&P 500 out of a trading range it’s been stuck in for more
than two months. The benchmark index for U.S. stocks has
fluctuated between 1,074.77 and 1,230.71 since Aug. 5 as
investors remained cautious toward riskier assets amid
speculation  Greece  will default on its debt.  “It feels like  Charlie Brown  and Lucy every time she put a
football in front of him,” James Dunigan, who helps oversee
$109 billion as chief investment officer in Philadelphia for PNC
Wealth Management, said in a telephone interview. Cartoon
character Charlie Brown is a perpetual loser in football and
other pursuits. “Maybe the worst case scenario is off the table
in Europe. Still, the question is -- whatever they do, will it
be enough? I’m not sure I’m ready to declare victory yet.”  ‘Coordinated Approach’  Global stocks rose today as European Commission President
 Jose Barroso  called for a reinforcement of crisis-hit banks, the
payout of a sixth loan to Greece and a faster start for a
permanent rescue fund to master Europe’s debt woes. Barroso
urged a “coordinated approach” to deliver a “significantly
higher capital ratio of highest quality capital” for banks,
while offering government funds only as a last resort.  Some  Federal Reserve  officials last month wanted to keep
further asset purchases as an option to boost the economy as
policy makers saw “considerable uncertainty” that U.S. growth
will pick up, the Fed said today in minutes of the Sept. 20-21
session. The debate culminated in the Federal Open Market
Committee’s decision to replace $400 billion of Treasuries in
the central bank’s portfolio with longer-term debt to reduce
borrowing costs.  “We’re believers that we’re probably going to avoid a
recession,” Warren Koontz, head of U.S. large-cap value stocks
at Loomis Sayles & Co. in  Boston , which manages $150 billion,
said in a telephone interview. “If people come to realize that
economic growth isn’t as poor as sentiment or as stock prices
have indicated, we probably could create some type of bottom.”  Most-Tied  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
economic growth added 2 percent. The Dow Jones Transportation
Average rose 1.3 percent. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  gained 3.3 percent.
Bank of America added 3.3 percent to $6.58. JPMorgan gained 2.8
percent to $33.20. GE increased 1.6 percent to $16.40. 3M
rallied 2.5 percent to $78.36.  PepsiCo jumped 2.9 percent to $62.70 after saying third-
quarter profit rose 4.1 percent as sales of Frito-Lay products
increased. Chief Executive Officer  Indra Nooyi  created a council
in September to better coordinate sales of snacks and beverages
after the company reduced its full-year profit forecast.  “The reason we’re bullish and why we’re having a different
view of the market is because we’ve had a lot more faith in the
ability of U.S. corporations and the  U.S. economy  to still
navigate through a U.S. expansion, despite what looks like very,
very scary headlines,”  Thomas Lee , the chief U.S. equity
strategist at JPMorgan, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television “In the Loop” with Betty Liu.  Liz Claiborne Soars  Liz Claiborne Inc. (LIZ)  surged 34 percent, the most since 1987,
to $6.84 after agreeing to sell its namesake and Monet brands to
J.C. Penney Co. and its Kensie line to Bluestar Alliance as the
company works to reduce debt. The transactions and the
completion of the sale of Dana Buchman brand to  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  are
worth a total of $328 million in cash.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  fell 2.4 percent to $10.05. The first company in
the Dow to report earnings this quarter posted profit that
trailed estimates, saying European customers “dramatically”
cut orders on economic uncertainty. Alcoa is grappling with
rising production costs while the price of aluminum on the
London Metal Exchange has fallen in the past two months.  Earnings per share for the S&P 500, excluding financial
companies, rose 14 percent in the third quarter, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Still, it’s the
smallest gain since the end of 2009, the data showed.  UBS AG raised its 2011 earnings forecast for companies in
the S&P 500, citing stronger-than-forecast U.S. economic data.
Thomas Doerflinger, a New York-based strategist, raised his
profit estimate for the benchmark index to $96.64 a share from
$95, saying earnings in the second half of the year will reflect
higher economic growth expectations after U.S. manufacturing,
auto sales, construction and payrolls data beat forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  