-- 
House Lawmakers to Propose Repeal of Durbin Swipe-Fee Rule

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-10-12T19:40:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/u-s-house-lawmakers-to-propose-repeal-of-durbin-swipe-fee-rule.html
Two U.S. House lawmakers say they
will introduce a bill to repeal a Federal Reserve  rule  capping
debit-card swipe fees.  Representatives Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican, and Bill Owens, a New York Democrat, plan to introduce a measure later
today to repeal the rule required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.
The Fed on Oct. 1 implemented the rule, which limits fees that
card networks charge merchants to 21 cents per transaction --
about half the average retailers have paid in the past.  The repeal legislation “fixes the disastrous consequences
of this bill,” Chaffetz said today in a statement. “Congress
must repeal this egregious provision that increases the costs of
doing business on everyone.”  The caps may cut as much as $8 billion in revenue from the
largest U.S. banks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Government. In response,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  have been rolling
out new charges for debit-card users.  Payment networks like  Visa Inc. (V)  are forecasting slower
growth under the new rules, which give retailers a choice of at
least two unaffiliated networks when they process transactions.
That change may create more competition for the networks, which
had been able to negotiate exclusive deals.  “For members of Congress today to do the bidding of the
country’s biggest banks and attempt to repeal these reforms is
an affront to merchants and their customers,” Mallory Duncan,
the chairman of the Merchants Payments Coalition and general
counsel for the  National Retail Federation , said today in a
statement.  Richard Durbin   Senator Richard Durbin, an Illinois Democrat, pushed for
the inclusion of the swipe-card rules in the financial
regulation overhaul. The fees, often the second-highest cost of
doing business behind labor for retailers, were at the center of
a fight in Congress this year as senators considered a bill to
delay the rules. The measure was defeated.  “Efforts to kill swipe fee reform have been tried and have
failed in the Senate, where there is no interest in rewarding
Bank of America’s bad behavior with a multi-billion dollar
payout,” Max Gleischman, Durbin’s spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Representative Shelley Moore Capito, a West Virginia
Republican who serves on the Financial Services Committee,
introduced a delay measure in the House in March. House
lawmakers planned to wait and see if the Senate passed the
measure before moving their own, Representative  Spencer Bachus ,
the chairman of the Financial Services panel, said at the time.  “The House would always have passed it,” Representative
 Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat, said last week in an
interview. “They just didn’t want to get into the fight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  