-- 
U.S. Will Intensify Pressure on Europe at G-20, Treasury’s Brainard Says

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-10-12T19:16:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/u-s-will-intensify-pressure-on-europe-brainard.html
The U.S. will intensify its call for
forceful action to stem  Europe ’s debt crisis at a meeting of
Group of 20 nations in Paris this week, the Treasury
Department’s top international official said.  “The consequences of delay are growing,”  Lael Brainard ,
Treasury undersecretary for international affairs, said in a
press briefing in Washington today. “Against a backdrop of
elevated risks to the recovery, the United States will intensify
our call for resolute action.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will attend the G-20
finance ministers meeting Oct. 13-14. European officials are
trying to resolve the continent’s debt crisis, which has pushed
Greece to the brink of default, shaken world markets and fueled
speculation the 17-nation euro currency might not survive in its
current form.  “The Europeans recognize that they have to put in place a
much more substantial, much more powerful response if they’re
going to achieve their objectives, which is helping countries
reform,” Geithner said in a Bloomberg Television interview
yesterday.  Brainard, asked whether the  International Monetary Fund 
should step up aid to Europe, said the organization already is
playing an important role. The Washington-based IMF, with close
to $400 billion dollars available to lend, has “ample”
capacity, she said.  Progress in China  On China, Brainard reiterated the Obama administration’s
view that the nation has shown “progress” on allowing its
currency to strengthen even as the U.S. “would like to see a
faster rate of appreciation.” The  Chinese yuan  has gained about
10 percent in real terms against the  U.S. dollar  since mid-2010.  German and French leaders pledged at a meeting Oct. 9 to
devise a plan to recapitalize banks, help Greece and strengthen
Europe’s economic governance. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ,
after meeting French President Nicholas Sarkozy, said Europe
will do “everything necessary” to ensure that banks have
enough capital.  “U.S. authorities are concerned that the Europeans have
not put enough money in the window, in some sense, to convince
the markets,” Edwin M. Truman, a senior fellow with the
Peterson Institute for International Economics, said in an
interview.  The European Union’s top banking regulator has discussed
plans to require banks to maintain a capital benchmark of 9
percent following a review of their reserve levels, according to
a person familiar with the talks.  Capital Threshold  That figure would be a benchmark for assessing whether
lenders have enough capital to withstand sovereign-debt
writedowns in the wake of the crisis, said the person, who can’t
be identified because the talks are private. The European
Banking Authority discussed the possible 9 percent threshold at
a meeting of its supervisory board in  London  last week, the
person said.  A Geithner trip to Poland last month ended with European
counterparts rebuffing his suggestions and taking shots at U.S.
economic woes.  U.S. officials will likely continue their message that
Europe needs “to recapitalize their banks or impose losses on
private investors,” said  Phillip Swagel , who was an assistant
Treasury secretary for economic policy in the George W. Bush
administration. “The longer they wait, the more uncertainty
there will be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  