-- 
U.S. Takes Iran Case to UN After Assassination Plot Against Saudi Diplomat

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-10-12T20:46:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/u-s-takes-iran-case-to-un-after-assassination-plot-against-saudi-diplomat.html
The Obama administration today gave
United Nations diplomats detailed intelligence to support
charges that Iran plotted to assassinate Saudi Arabia’s
ambassador to the  United States .  In a possible prelude to a bid for tighter sanctions, U.S.
Ambassador to the UN  Susan Rice , flanked by officials from the
FBI, the CIA and the Justice and State Departments, briefed
Security Council members on the evidence. Colombia’s Nestor Osorio said Rice and her  Saudi  counterpart provided “much more
information” about how U.S. law enforcement and intelligence
foiled the plot than has been reported in the media.  Manssor Arbabsiar, a 56-year-old Iranian citizen with a
U.S. passport who was working as a used car salesman in  Texas ,
and Gholam Shakuri, a member of the Quds Force Iranian military
unit, were charged yesterday with conspiracy to use plastic
explosives to murder Saudi Ambassador Adel al-Jubeir.  Although the alleged plot was unprofessional, featuring a
Drug Enforcement Administration informer, whom the Iranians
thought was a member of a Mexican drug cartel, and wire
transfers of money, U.S. officials are convinced that it was not
a rogue operation. Instead, U.S. officials told reporters
Wednesday, the plan probably was discussed and vetted at high
levels in the Iranian government.  Quds Force  The Quds Force, with several thousand officers, is the arm
of  Iran ’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps responsible for
covert and special operations outside Iran, including arming and
training Iraqi Shiite Muslim militias to attack U.S. troops.
It’s begun playing a more prominent role in Iranian foreign
policy, and its special external operations unit reports
directly to Major General Qassem Suleimani, the Quds Force
commander, and to Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.  However, the U.S. officials said, it’s quite possible that
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  did not know of the risky
plan to murder an ambassador in a restaurant in the American
capital.  The gravity of the allegations has raised the possibility
the U.S. will pursue punitive measures at the world body against
Iran, which is already under four rounds of UN sanctions because
of its nuclear program.  “In coming days, the exchange of rhetoric will be
aggressive, and  Saudi Arabia  will likely downgrade, or even
break, relations with Iran,”  Cliff Kupchan , an analyst at New
York-based research firm Eurasia Group, said in an e-mail. The
U.S. will “likely to seek Security Council action, measures
such as financial sanctions.”  ‘Dangerous’ Escalation  The alleged Iranian-backed plot is a “dangerous”
escalation by the Islamic regime, U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said today in Washington, and “Iran must be
held accountable” for its actions. White House press secretary
Jay Carney today called it an “attempted terrorist act.”  French Ambassador  Gerard Araud  said the UN briefings were
convincing and credible.  “Given the position and seriousness of the people who came
to give us an explanation, it is not to be taken lightly,”
 Colombia ’s Osorio told reporters today in  New York .  Russia’s Vitaly Churkin sounded a more skeptical tone,
saying it all looked “rather bizarre.”  The U.S. officials who spoke to reporters agreed that other
operations in which the Quds Force played a role, including the
bombing of a Jewish  community center  in  Buenos Aires , involved
much better tradecraft than did the alleged plot to kill the
Saudi ambassador.  Wire Transfers  They said the wire transfers of money to the man the
Iranians thought would kill the ambassador finally convinced
them that the plot was real.  The alleged plot by Iran dealers to pay Mexican drug barons
to kill the Saudi ambassador in a fashionable  Washington 
restaurant sounded so far-fetched to prompt even Clinton to ask:
“Nobody could make that up, right?”  Former State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley 
described it as “ straight out of Hollywood .”  The U.S. officials said that some of the the political
hardliners who’ve recently reached high positions in the Iranian
government have little or no experience in the West and may have
failed to understand how the U.S. and other countries would
respond to the plot to kill a diplomat on foreign soil.  Iran’s ambassador to the UN, Mohammad Khazaee, told
reporters that the U.S. accusation is “a really big lie” and
it “doesn’t make sense.” He also accused the U.S. of setting a
“dangerous precedent.”  ‘Extremely Worrisome’  “I find it hard to believe that senior officials in Iran
approved this,” said  Robert Danin  of the Council on Foreign
Relations and a former aide to Mideast Quartet envoy  Tony Blair ,
the former U.K. prime minister. “However, if they did, then it
suggests a degree of recklessness that is extremely worrisome,
and not befitting a wannabe nuclear power.”  Separately,the U.S. imposed sanctions on Mahan
Air, an Iranian commercial airline accused of “secretly
ferrying operatives, weapons and funds” on behalf of the
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.  Mahan Air is “yet another facet of the IRGC’s extensive
infiltration of Iran’s commercial sector to facilitate its
support for terrorism,” said Treasury Under Secretary for
Terrorism and Financial Intelligence  David Cohen , in an e-mailed
statement.  Under the designation, U.S. persons are prohibited from
engaging in commercial or financial transactions with Mahan Air,
and any assets it may hold under U.S. jurisdiction are frozen,
the Treasury release said.  The Treasury said that the Tehran-based airline provides
transportation, funds transfers and personnel travel services to
the Quds Force, the foreign operations unit of the IRGC.  -- With assistance from Roger Runningen and Indira Lakshmanan in
Washington. Editors: John Walcott, Terry Atlas  To contact the reporters on this story:  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  