-- 
Morgan Stanley Credit Risk Plunges as Optimism Grows on Europe

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-10-12T21:17:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/u-s-company-credit-risk-drops-on-speculation-europe-progressing.html
The cost of protecting against
losses on  Morgan Stanley (MS)  debt plunged to the lowest level in
three weeks as European leaders signaled progress in halting the
region’s sovereign fiscal crisis.  Credit-default swaps on Morgan Stanley, owner of the
world’s largest retail brokerage, fell 35 basis points to a mid-
price of 358 basis points as of 4:30 p.m. New York time,
according to CMA data. That’s equivalent to $358,000 to protect
$10 million of debt for five years and is down from as much as
$650,000 on Oct. 4.  Investor confidence in the credit of Morgan Stanley is
rebounding as European Commission President  Jose Barroso  called
for support for crisis-hit banks, the payout of a sixth loan to
Greece and a faster start for a permanent rescue fund to
alleviate the debt crisis. The cost to protect the debt last
week reached the highest level in three years amid concern that
Europe’s fiscal imbalances would infect bank balance sheets
globally.  “It’s a case of extreme volatility,”  Joel Levington ,
managing director of corporate credit at Brookfield Investment
Management Inc. in New York, said in an e-mail. “The market is
using Morgan Stanley credit-default swaps as a derivative for EU
sentiment.”  The cost of buying protection against a default of New
York-based Morgan Stanley has dropped below that of Italy’s
banks for the first time in more than two weeks. Contracts on
Italy’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  are trading at 365 basis points, and
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  swaps are at 370, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  U.S. Bank Swaps  Credit-default swaps on  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  fell 28 to
335 and those on  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  eased 11 to 134. Contracts
on  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  declined 20 to 301, the CMA data
show.  A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk fell for a
second day, also reaching its lowest level in three weeks. The
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors
use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreased 4.3 basis points to a mid-price of
130.3 basis points as of 5:07 p.m. in New York, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, has dropped
from 150.1 on Oct. 3.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  