-- 
Ford Union UAW Says Automaker Will Hire Strike Breakers If Accord Rejected

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-10-12T21:43:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/uaw-says-ford-will-hire-strike-breakers-if-accord-not-ratified.html
The  United Auto Workers  said in a
Facebook post that it will seek a strike if members vote against
a tentative agreement with  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and that union leaders
expect the automaker would seek replacement workers.  The post today from the UAW Ford Department cites UAW Vice
President Jimmy Settles, the union’s lead negotiator with the
automaker, informing workers a strike would follow a rejection
of the contract. Workers at a Ford factory in Wayne, Michigan,
rejected the contract in a ratification vote this week.  “Vice President Settles has advised the membership during
informational meetings that if the agreement is not ratified, he
will ask the International Executive Board to authorize a
strike,” the UAW Ford Department post said. “If so, he will
then give 72 hour notice to the company that we intend to
strike.”  The UAW has not had a national walkout at Ford since 1976.
 Michele Martin , a spokeswoman for the UAW, didn’t immediately
respond to requests for comment.  Bob King , the union’s
president, said earlier he wasn’t concerned about early voting
results at Ford.  “It’s a really good agreement,” King told reporters in
Warren, Michigan, today during a news conference about a
tentative labor agreement with Chrysler Group LLC. “I think
that as people look at it and weigh the different options,
they’ll vote for it.”  Ford ‘Optimistic’  The company said it expects the accord to pass.  “We remain optimistic that the tentative agreement will be
approved, as it is fair to our employees and improves Ford’s
competitiveness,” Karen Hampton, a Ford spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail.  Ford’s 41,000 U.S. hourly workers began voting this week on
the tentative agreement reached on Oct. 4. Ratification votes at
UAW locals across the U.S. are to conclude Oct. 18.  With 8 percent of the vote complete, 50.2 percent of
production workers have voted yes, while 50.6 percent of skilled
trades workers have rejected the deal, the UAW Ford Department
said today on the Facebook page.  “If this is what the UAW is putting on their website, then
it’s clearly authoritative on what they see as the likely result
of a no vote,” said  Harley Shaiken , a labor professor at the
 University of California  at Berkeley. “They’re saying, ‘We did
the very best we could and anything more will take the picket
line.’”  Lockout Possibility  The post also said the automaker may lock out UAW-
represented employees or use replacement workers to keep
factories running.  “The company is not obligated to continue bargaining
because their position is that they negotiated in good faith and
presented an agreement which is more than competitive,” the UAW
Ford Department post said. “If we strike, they will use
whatever resources necessary to continue operating their plants
including the use of scab labor.”  The statement on the Facebook page “will no doubt have an
influence on the vote,” Shaiken said. “Workers are not up for
a strike; people are apprehensive and fearful of the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  