-- 
Huawei Calls for ‘Accountability’ as U.S. Blocks Bid Over Security Concern

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-12T06:05:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/huawei-calls-for-accountability-as-u-s-blocks-bid-over-security-concern.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
largest phone-network equipment maker, asked the U.S. government
to explain why it was barred from participating in a nationwide
emergency network.  Huawei won’t be taking part in the program “due to U.S.
Government national security concerns,” U.S. Commerce
Department spokesman Kevin Griffis said in an e-mail to
Bloomberg News today. He declined to elaborate on the nature of
those concerns or how the decision was reached.  The company, which established its U.S. headquarters in
Plano,  Texas  in 2001, has repeatedly seen efforts to expand in
the country run into opposition from American lawmakers, who
raise concerns about alleged links to China’s military that
Huawei has denied. The latest decision could jeopardize its
investment in the U.S., where it employs 1,500 workers and spent
$6.1 billion last year on goods and services, said William Plummer, a Washington-based spokesman for Huawei.  “Notwithstanding that it is an ill-founded, ungrounded
determination, it could have a chilling effect on our greater
U.S. business activities and accountability needs to be defined
appropriately,” Plummer said.  The company wants to know the statutory authority and
regulatory regime under which the latest decision was made,
Plummer said.  National Security  Huawei was founded in 1988 by Ren Zhengfei, who retired
from the Chinese military in 1984. At the time of his
retirement, Ren was deputy director of the Science Research
Institute of the Engineering Army Corps, according to a
biography supplied by the company. Ren hasn’t maintained any
ties with the military since then, according to the company.  Ren, 66, remains Huawei’s chief executive officer.  The Committee on Foreign Investment in the  United States 
forced the company in February to unwind its purchase of  Santa
Clara , California-based 3Leaf Systems’s patents after U.S.
lawmakers said the acquisition could pose “a serious risk” to
U.S. computer networks.  Huawei failed in bids to acquire 2Wire and Motorola’s
wireless business last year and 3Com Corp. in 2008.  “Corporate Independence”  “Huawei has repeatedly and factually demonstrated its
corporate independence,” Plummer said. “No one has ever
factually demonstrated otherwise and playing Huawei as a pawn in
some geopolitical game of chess is doing nothing more than
threatening U.S. jobs, investment, competition and innovation.”  Huawei is employee-owned, and the Chinese government holds
no shares, according to its  website . The company employs 110,000
people worldwide, its annual report said.  The program from which Huawei was excluded is known as the
Public Safety 700-MHz Demonstration Network, which is run by the
 National Institute of Standards and Technology , along with the
 National Telecommunications and Information Administration , a
part of the Commerce Department. The network allows
communication between first responders to an emergency,
including firefighters and police officers.  Huawei said in a July 6 filing to the Federal
Communications Commission that its effort to enter the equipment
assessment portion of the program was being delayed “for
reasons unknown.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  