-- 
UAW, Chrysler Reach Tentative Agreement Including $4.5 Billion Investment

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-10-12T21:14:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/united-auto-workers-chrysler-reach-tentative-labor-deal-investment-plan.html
Chrysler Group LLC, which hasn’t
turned an annual profit since its 2009 bankruptcy, agreed to pay
a record $3,500 ratification bonus to United Auto Workers union
members, hire 2,100 people and invest $4.5 billion.  The signing bonus, smaller than those offered by  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) , will be paid in two phases: Half
within 30 days of ratification, the rest after Chrysler achieves
financial goals. Members will vote on the tentative four-year
agreement within two weeks, General Holiefield, who runs the
union’s Chrysler unit, told reporters today in Warren,  Michigan .  “It was a jobs, jobs, jobs agenda,” Holiefield said. “We
placed more focus on that than we did pretty much anything
else.”  The tentative deal completes the UAW’s negotiations for
113,000 workers at GM, Ford and Fiat SpA-controlled Chrysler.
The contracts are the first since GM and Chrysler went through
U.S.-backed bankruptcies in 2009. The union said the agreement
is patterned after those with GM and Ford that grant bonuses
instead of raises for senior workers to hold down fixed labor
costs at the automakers.  Workers will qualify for $1,000 in annual quality and
performance bonuses and as much as $1,000 in annual bonuses tied
to the automaker’s manufacturing system developed under Fiat.
Chrysler will also pay a $300 bonus for workers who have perfect
attendance, the union told members in a handout.  ‘Gains Are Fewer’  “The gains are fewer at Chrysler because their situation
is more uncertain,” said  Harley Shaiken , labor professor at the
 University of California  at Berkeley. “The numbers are very
different from the other two contracts, but the pattern is very
similar.”  The automaker will invest in Belvidere,  Illinois , and
 Sterling Heights , Michigan, assembly plants, as well as engine,
machining and other factories. The Illinois plant will get two
new models, Holiefield said, while declining to specify the
vehicles.  The two sides also agreed to a new profit-sharing plan that
is expanded to include performance of all  North America  and will
be based on 85 percent of  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
Chrysler’s modified operating profits, the union said.  Chrysler, in a separate e-mailed statement, declined to
discuss terms of the labor deal.  Arbitration Averted  The agreement, if ratified, avoids having an arbitrator
decide differences between the company and union. The union
agreed to a strike ban at Chrysler and GM in this year’s
negotiations as part of the bankruptcies. Ford didn’t file for
bankruptcy and UAW members there rejected a strike ban.  “Chrysler membership understands it’s not Ford,” Kristin Dziczek, a labor analyst with the Center for Automotive Research
in  Ann Arbor , Michigan, said in a phone interview. “It’s better
to have a deal than to have the wild card of binding
arbitration.”  Chrysler Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , who is
also CEO of Fiat, told reporters in  Montreal  on Oct. 7 the
automaker was prepared to go to arbitration.  “If we cannot resolve the issues we will go there,”
Marchionne said of arbitration in Montreal.  The accord comes after Marchionne criticized UAW President
 Bob King  in a Sept. 14 letter. Marchionne said then he was ready
to complete negotiations while the union president had
“competing engagements.” Chrysler later extended its labor
contract deadline to Oct. 19.  GM, Ford Deals  The union reached new four-year labor agreements with GM on
Sept. 16 and Ford on Oct. 4. UAW members at GM approved their
contract last month. Voting at Ford will conclude by Oct. 18,
the Detroit-based union said. King said today he expects it to
be ratified.  GM agreed to pay a $5,000 signing bonus to its UAW
employees while most Ford union members would receive $6,000.
Ford agreed to additional payments to its UAW employees.  The UAW had sought signing bonuses of $8,000 to $10,000 for
each member, four people familiar with discussions said last
month, before any of the agreements had been reached.  Chrysler had balked at signing bonuses that high, wanting
its bonus to be about $3,500, according to two people familiar
with the discussions, who asked not to be identified because the
negotiations are private.  Tier-Two Raises  All three accords boost pay for entry-level workers while
senior production employees forgo raises. The starting wage had
been about half the $28 an hour paid to long-time workers. New
hires will now be paid $15.78 an hour and can earn as much as
$19.28 by the end of the contract.  A raise for entry-level workers would have a larger effect
at Chrysler compared with GM and Ford. Chrysler has said it has
at least 12 percent of its workers at the entry-level rate. GM
estimates 2 to 3 percent of its U.S. hourly workers are paid the
entry-level wage while Ford has fewer than 100 such employees.  The number of workers paid at the entry-level wage will be
capped at 25 percent in 2015 at Chrysler, King told reporters.  Chrysler had pushed in the negotiation to remove the cap,
two people familiar with the talks said.  Chrysler failed to win removal of a cap on lower-wage
workers representing more than 20 percent of the workforce,
Shaiken said.  “They drew a line in the sand on that issue and they
erased the line,” Shaiken said. “They did get other things,
such as tying compensation to productivity and quality.”  No Chrysler Buyouts  Chrysler, unlike GM and Ford, isn’t offering buyouts,
Holiefield said.  GM, under its new labor contract, will offer as much as
$75,000 to its skilled-trades workers and $10,000 to production
employees. Ford’s agreement includes buyout offers of $100,000
to skilled-trades workers and $50,000 to production employees.
The automakers want to shed higher-paid employees and replace
them with new hires earning the entry-level rate.  Chrysler, after a net loss of $652 million last year, aims
to turn its first annual profit this year of $200 million to
$500 million, excluding certain expenses. It reported a first-
quarter net profit of $116 million and a $370 million net loss
in the second quarter. Excluding costs from paying off U.S. and
Canadian government loans early, Chrysler earned $181 million in
the April-to-June quarter.  Chrysler’s U.S. sales gained 23 percent through September,
beating the industry’s 10 percent growth rate, according to
researcher Autodata Corp. as the automaker benefits from 16 new,
redesigned or refreshed vehicles, including the Chrysler 300.  Fiat rose as much as 8.4 percent, making it the best
performer in the FTSE Milan benchmark index today, and closed at
4.92 Euros in Milan, at the highest since Aug. 17.  If ratified, the new contract will expire at midnight Sept.
14, 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  