-- 
Universal Drops Early TV Plan for ‘Tower Heist’ Film After Cinemas Protest

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-10-12T20:15:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/universal-abandons-video-plan-for-tower-heist-film-after-theater-boycott.html
     Oct. 12 (Bloomberg) -- Universal Pictures abandoned a plan
to offer the Eddie Murphy comedy “Tower Heist” on pay
television three weeks after its theatrical release, yielding to
a threatened boycott by exhibitors.  Universal delayed the planned experiment to offer the film
for $59.99 to cable customers of parent  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  in Atlanta
and Portland, Oregon, the studio said today in an e-mailed
statement. That’s earlier than the usual three to four months
after the start of a theater run.  Theater chains operating 12 percent of U.S. screens,
including  Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK)  and National Amusements Inc.,
controlled by  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B)  Chairman  Sumner Redstone , said they
would boycott the film. Studios have been experimenting with so-
called premium video-on-demand by releasing some films to
television early to compensate for declining DVD sales.  “Universal continues to believe that the theater
experience and a PVOD window are business models that can
coincide and thrive and we look forward to working with our
partners in exhibition to find a way to experiment in this area
in the future,” the studio said.  Theater operators are concerned earlier TV releases will
cut into ticket sales. The film, also featuring  Ben Stiller , is
scheduled to be released in theaters on Nov. 4.  “We feel it will damage the exhibition release,” Rafe
Cohen, president of Sherman Oaks, California-based Galaxy
Theatres LLC, said in an interview yesterday. “The next step
would be to cut the price until they get takers.”  Galaxy, a closely held company, operates 108 screens in 10
locations, including Austin, Texas and Las Vegas.  Talks With Theaters  The decision to delay the test came after discussions
between the studio and exhibitors, John Fithian, president of
the National Association of Theatre Owners, said in a statement.  “They have been engaged with individual exhibitors on this
test, and while it was something that many theater owners could
not ultimately support, the open and collaborative nature of the
dialog is appreciated,” Fithian said.  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, is the largest U.S. cable-
TV service, and acquired control of NBC Universal, parent of
 Universal Pictures , in 2009.  Comcast rose 2.7 percent to $23.60 at the close of trading
in  New York . The stock has gained 7.4 percent this year.
Cinemark, based in Plano, Texas, gained 2.1 percent to $20.13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  