-- 
Turkcell Dividend Blocked After Walkout, TeliaSonera Says

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-10-12T17:56:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/turkcell-shareholders-deadlocked-on-board-change-bahcuvan-says.html
A dividend for shareholders of
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS,  Turkey ’s biggest mobile phone
company, won’t be approved at a meeting today amid a dispute
over the makeup of its board of directors,  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  said.  Executives of TeliaSonera and  Alfa Group , which hold a
majority of shares in the company, walked out of the
extraordinary meeting in Istanbul and instructed their proxy
voter to abstain from further voting,  Cecilia Edstroem , a
spokesman for TeliaSonera, said by telephone.  Cukurova Holding AS of Turkey is battling with TeliaSonera
and Alfa for control of Turkcell in wrangling that’s escalated
to court cases stretching from Geneva to the Caribbean islands.
The extraordinary meeting held today had already been scheduled
twice previously.  Turkcell rose 4.6 percent to 8.60 liras on the  Istanbul
Stock Exchange  today, as investors bet the dividend would be
paid. The share gained 5.4 percent to $11.875 in New York
trading at 1:55 p.m.  TeliaSonera and Alfa took the decision to abstain from
voting today after Turkcell Chairman  Colin Williams , who
TeliaSonera and Alfa want replaced, “took the law into his own
hands” and blocked voting on the replacement of some board
members with independents, Edstroem said. Williams has
previously denied any wrong-doing.  Edstroem said TeliaSonera is looking forward to working
with Turkish authorities to improve corporate governance at
Turkcell. She said measures published yesterday by the capital
markets regulator that require Turkey’s largest companies to
appoint independent board members were “positive,” but
Williams had ignored them.  Government representatives at today’s meeting took the item
allowing changes to Turkcell’s board off the agenda after
pressing shareholders not to vote, Soner Bahcuvan, who
represents Turkcells’ minority shareholders, said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  