-- 
Turkish Lira Gains for Second Week per Dollar on Positive Slovak Vote Bets

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-12T14:24:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/turkish-lira-gains-for-second-week-per-dollar-on-positive-slovak-vote-bets.html
The lira appreciated to its
highest level in almost three weeks on expectations that
Slovakia’s parliament will approve euro region’s bailout fund,
supporting emerging market assets.  The lira gained 1.2 percent to 1.8194 per dollar at 5:19
p.m. in Istanbul, raising this week’s increase to 1.6 percent.
Yields on two-year benchmark bonds fell 12 basis points, or
0.12 percentage point, to 8.33 percent, according to the RBS
Istanbul Benchmark Bond Index.  Slovak opposition leader  Robert Fico  said an accord
between political leaders was reached on approving the
European Financial Stability Facility and holding early
elections on March 10. Fico, a former prime minister, said the
EFSF vote will be held on Oct. 14 at the latest, though a
parliamentary agreement on early elections must be passed
first.  The central bank sold $70 million to banks today, the
lowest amount since Oct 3, a day before the currency hit its
historic low at 1.9096 and forced the Ankara-based bank to
raise its dollar sales at auctions to a record $750 million.
It sold $140 million yesterday, sending the lira 0.5 percent
down against the dollar.  “I expect the Slovak parliament to approve the package
within this week and the markets are striving to remain
optimistic,”  Emre Balkeser , head of trading at Garanti
Securities, said in e-mailed comments.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkish dollar
bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries narrowed 12 basis points to
313, compared with a 13 basis-point fall for emerging-market
debt, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show.  “It seems that the lira can rally to 1.75-1.80 band if
all emerging market currencies do not get into a weakening
trend,” said Balkeser.  There is a 53 percent chance that the currency will rise
to 1.75 per dollar by the end of 2011 and an 84 percent chance
it will advance to 1.8 per dollar, according to implied
probability calculated from currency options.  The lira is the worst-performer among 31 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, losing 15.4 percent this year as the
current-account deficit and the European financial woes dented
investor confidence in  Turkey ’s financial stability. The
deficit narrowed to $4 billion in August, the smallest gap
since October last year.  Turkey’s economy is slowing and the current account
deficit, which reached unsustainable proportions, will
narrow, Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek said. The gap has
peaked at 9.5 percent of gross domestic product and will
decline to below that level by the end of the year, Simsek
said in a speech in Istanbul today. The deficit is expected to
fall further in 2012, he said.  Traders paid 4.9 percentage points more for the right to
sell the lira in three months than to buy, according to so-
called risk reversal rates compiled by Bloomberg. The premium
to insure against further depreciation in the lira fell for
the sixth day, in the longest losing streak since March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  