-- 
Visa, MasterCard Accused of Price Fixing by ATM Operators

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-12T22:46:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/visa-mastercard-accused-of-price-fixing-by-atm-operators.html
Visa Inc. and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the
world’s biggest payment networks, were sued by a trade group
representing operators of automated teller machines over claims
the firms fix prices and suppress competition among ATM
networks.  The group, in a lawsuit filed today in federal court in
 Washington , accused Visa and MasterCard of antitrust violations
for restricting independent ATM operators from charging varying
prices for customers using alternative networks such as STAR,
Shazam Inc. or TransFund. Under a uniform agreement, the
operators can’t charge less for transactions over a network that
competes with Visa and MasterCard, according to the complaint.  The case is the latest assault on the firms, which are
grappling with the effects of new Federal Reserve rules that
reduced the fees charged to merchants for debit-card purchases.
Visa and MasterCard processed cash transactions totaling at
least $547 billion in the U.S. last year, including withdrawals
from ATMs, according to company filings.  “The ATM restraints prevent ATM operators from offering
their customers a discount or benefit for completing a
transaction over a network that is less costly to the ATM
operator,” the group contended in its complaint. “Consumers
cannot be rewarded for using a lower cost and more efficient
network.”  Trade Group  The allegations were made by the National ATM Council Inc.,
a trade group based in Jacksonville,  Florida , and 13 operators
of ATMs in nine states. The plaintiffs, who are asking to
represent the 350 non-bank ATM operators nationwide, are seeking
triple damages.  James Issokson, a spokesman for MasterCard, based in
Purchase,  New York , declined to comment, saying the company
hadn’t been served with the suit. Will Valentine, a spokesman
for San Francisco-based Visa, declined to comment on the filing.  The ATM operators claim that the “overwhelming” majority
of so-called PIN debit cards used for ATM transactions are
branded by Visa or MasterCard. In order to accept one of these
cards, an ATM operator must have access to the Visa and
MasterCard networks. Independent or non-bank operators must be
sponsored by a financial institution that is a member of the
Visa and MasterCard networks.  Service Fee  Visa, MasterCard and their member banks require the service
fee for any transaction at an ATM to be “no less than the
amount charged at that ATM or terminal for a Visa or MasterCard
transaction,” even for transactions that don’t use the
companies’ networks, the lawsuit alleges.  “By restricting their ability to attract customers to
lower cost ATM services through lower prices, the ATM restraints
put a competitive straightjacket on ATM operators,” the lawsuit
claims.  Visa climbed 66 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $91.17 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. MasterCard fell 0.5
percent to $327.99.  The case is National ATM Council v.  Visa Inc. (V) , 11-1803,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 