-- 
SEC Proposes Volcker Rule Curbs on Banks’ Proprietary Trades

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-12T15:57:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/volcker-rule-proposal-to-limit-banks-trading-set-for-sec-vote-on-comment.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission joined three other federal regulators in seeking
comment on a rule that would bar banks from making short-term
trades for their own accounts and limit their ownership of
private-equity and hedge funds.  SEC commissioners voted 4-0 at a meeting in Washington
today to release the so-called Volcker rule for public comment
through Jan. 13. The proposal -- part of the agencies’
rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act -- was released yesterday by
the  Federal Reserve , Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency.  “Its implementation would be a step forward in reducing
conflicts of interest between the self interests of banking
entities and the interests of their customers,” SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  said before the vote. The proposal offers a
“balanced approach” that still allows certain market-making
activity, hedging and underwriting, said Schapiro, who led the
meeting via videoconference from  London .  Lawmakers included the rule, named for former Fed Chairman
 Paul Volcker , in last year’s regulatory overhaul to keep banks
from jeopardizing customer deposits after high-risk trading was
faulted for contributing to the 2008 credit crisis. The measure
covers banks with access to federal  deposit insurance  and
comparatively cheap Fed loans as well as their holding companies
and affiliates.  The regulators’ 298-page joint proposal raises nearly 400
questions for response from commenters. The SEC specifically
asks about how the rule should define “covered banking
entities” and how it will affect the banking industry,  ‘Significant Reservations’  Troy Paredes , the commission’s lone Republican, voted to
seek comment on the rule while registering “significant
reservations,” including what he said was the potential for
excessive compliance costs and the possibility that it may put
U.S. firms at a disadvantage against international competitors.  Separately, the SEC voted 3-1 today to propose a
registration process for security-based swap dealers and major
swap participants. The process would require a senior officer to
certify a firm’s capabilities for operating a swap business.  Paredes voted against the proposal, calling the senior
officer designation a “novel and untested approach.”  The SEC’s December proposal for defining those dealers and
participants is still awaiting final adoption. The agency will
share oversight of swaps markets with the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  