-- 
Wal-Mart Says M&A Strategy Will Focus on Existing Markets

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-10-12T21:13:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/wal-mart-says-m-a-strategy-will-now-focus-on-existing-markets.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, will now focus its mergers and acquisition
strategy on existing markets, said Doug McMillon, chief
executive officer of Wal-Mart’s international unit.  Wal-Mart will look first to countries where it already
operates stores rather than enter new regions, McMillon said
today at an investor conference in Bentonville, Arkansas.
McMillon declined to disclose specific targets. The company is
integrating acquisitions made in the U.K., China and Africa.  “First and foremost we want to build scale in the markets
where we are,” McMillon said at the meeting. “We like the
markets that we are in and will continue to prioritize those.
There are a few remaining high-growth markets we are not in, and
we won’t miss an opportunity there if one presents itself.”  Japan  is the most likely area for mergers and acquisitions
in existing markets, said  Craig Johnson , president at consulting
firm Customer Growth Partners. U.K. retailer  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  said in
August it would exit Japan and sell its 129 locations. Wal-Mart
also may look to acquire properties from Japanese retailers such
as Aeon Co., Johnson said.  “Given the Japanese economy is still in the ditch, they
could acquire good property at a favorable price,” he said.  Wal-Mart told investors in June that it was considering
making acquisitions in Japan.  Wal-Mart may consider acquiring U.S. drugstore chain  Rite
Aid Corp. (RAD) , Natalie Berg, an analyst at U.K. research firm Planet
Retail, said in an e-mail.  Carrefour Bid  The retailer is exploring a bid for Carrefour SA’s
Brazilian stores to help bolster its scale in  Latin America ,
several people with knowledge of the process said in August.  Interest ramped up after Carrefour abandoned a proposed
plan to combine its business with Cia. Brasileira de
Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar, one of the people said. The
unit may be worth 7 billion euros ($9.7 billion) according to
Niamh McSherry, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London .  “They are looking in current markets for acquisitions, but
I guarantee they would do a deal in new markets if it
appeared,”  David Strasser , an analyst at Janney Montgomery
Scott, said in an e-mail. He recommends buying the shares.  In December, Wal-Mart said it would close its Moscow office
after attempts to find an acquisition in Russia were thwarted.
McMillon said at the time that the company would continue to
look at opportunities there.  Entered  Africa   Earlier this year Wal-Mart entered Africa by acquiring a
controlling stake in South African shop operator and wholesaler
Massmart Holdings Ltd. for 16.5 billion rand ($2.1 billion).  Wal-Mart operates in 28 countries, and the international
division generated about $109 billion in sales last year. The
shares rose 0.9 percent to $55.20 at 4:15 p.m. in New York.  Wal-Mart also said same-store sales in its U.S. division
have increased for the past three months as gas prices declined
and about 10,000 products were added back to shelves. The
retailer didn’t say whether total U.S. same-store sales for the
third quarter, which includes October, would increase. In
August, Wal-Mart projected U.S. comparable sales in the quarter
would range between a 1 percent decline and a 1 percent gain.  “We have new momentum in the U.S.,” Chief Financial
Officer  Charles Holley  said at the meeting.  The company plans to release third-quarter financial
results on Nov. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in  New York  at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  