-- 
Wall Street Sees ‘No Exit’ From Financial Woes as Bankers Fret

-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 
2011-10-12T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/wall-street-sees-no-exit-from-financial-woes-as-bankers-fret.html
Wall Street  executives, facing
demonstrators camped for a fourth week in New York’s financial
district, say they’re anxious and angry for other reasons.  An era of decline and disappointment for bankers may not
end for years, according to interviews with more than two dozen
executives and investors. Blaming government interference and
persecution, they say there isn’t enough global stability,
leverage or risk appetite to triumph in the current slump.  “I don’t think it’s a time to make money -- this is a time
to rig for survival,” said Charles Stevenson, 64, president of
hedge fund Navigator Group Inc. and head of the co-op board at
740 Park Ave. The building, home to Blackstone Group LP Chairman
 Stephen Schwarzman  and CIT Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer
John Thain, was among those picketed by protesters yesterday.
“The future is not going to be like a past we knew,” he said.
“There’s no exit from this morass.”  An anemic global economy, the European sovereign debt
crisis, U.S. unemployment stuck above 9 percent and swooning
stock markets have sapped the euphoria that swept Wall Street in
2009 as it rebounded to record profits after the credit crisis.
The benefits of a $700 billion taxpayer bailout and $1.2
trillion in emergency funding from the  Federal Reserve  have
faded. Next week  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  may report its second
quarterly loss per share since going public in 1999, according
to the average estimate of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Financial Bubble’  “They’re not going to make the kind of money they
wanted,” said William Hambrecht, chairman of San Francisco-
based WR Hambrecht & Co., who designed the Dutch auction of
Google Inc.’s 2004 initial public offering. “I’m not sure
people really have come to terms with the fact that what we had
was a financial bubble.”  New rules from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
will more than double  capital requirements  for banks. Fixed-
income revenue could fall 25 percent under a draft of the
Volcker rule, which may outlaw so-called flow trading, according
to an Oct. 10 note from Brad Hintz, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
analyst. Leverage has been cut by more than half at banks
including Goldman Sachs and UBS AG, and an Oliver Wyman and
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  report estimates that regulation may reduce
returns on equity by 4 to 6 percentage points.  The new rules are the result of “societal objectives of a
populist administration in  Washington ,” private-equity investor
 Wilbur Ross  said in an e-mail. John Phelan, co-founder of MSD
Capital LP, a New York-based fund that manages assets for
billionaire Michael Dell, said “the whole capitalist system is
being called into question.”  ‘Ways to Profiteer’  Not everyone is worried about the banks.  “I wouldn’t shed too many tears for Wall Street,”  Neil Barofsky , 41, the former special inspector general for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program who is now teaching a class on the
financial crisis at  New York  University School of Law, wrote in
an e-mail. “The systemic advantage that the too-big-to-fail
banks enjoyed in the lead-up to the financial crisis may be
diminished in the near term, but the structure is still
essentially the same and will almost certainly help catapult
them to record profits and bonuses once the good times return.”  Ross, 73, the billionaire chairman of New York-based WL
Ross & Co., said Wall Street’s “inherent ingenuity” shouldn’t
be discounted and that “the history of the investment community
shows that it will find ways to profiteer.”  Others identified potential financial bright spots,
including so-called black-swan and tail-risk funds designed to
protect against market shocks. One black-swan fund, Universa
Investments LP, whose Santa Monica,  California , office features
a Japanese print of a wave about to break over fishermen,
produced returns of 20 percent to 25 percent this year, through
August, according to a person familiar with the matter.  ‘More Secular’  Still, almost all corners of Wall Street are suffering.
James Staley, head of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s investment bank,
estimated last month that third-quarter trading revenue may drop
by 30 percent and  investment-banking  fees by 50 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index had its worst decline in the quarter
since 2008, and Brent crude-oil futures saw their longest slump.
The average yields demanded on U.S. commercial-mortgage bonds in
excess of Treasuries climbed the most in three years.  “Unlike some other slowdowns, this feels more secular,”
said Wilson Ervin, a Credit Suisse Group AG senior adviser who
stepped down as chief risk officer in 2009.  ‘Recalibrated’ Compensation  While there had been “an understandable path” out of the
turmoil of 2008, there’s a more encompassing uncertainty now,
said Frederick Lane, vice chairman of investment banking at St.
Petersburg, Florida-based Raymond James Financial Inc.  “There’s going to be some disillusionment, similar to
physicians,” said Lane, 62. “The notion that somehow going to
medical school would deliver you substantial wealth and prestige
is no longer true.”  Ilana Weinstein, CEO of search firm IDW Group LLC, said in
an interview that she had nothing good to offer a trading
executive in his early 40s who complained last month about
morale at his bank, one of the six largest in the U.S.  “This is the first time that people don’t necessarily
believe it will get better,” said Weinstein, whose Third Avenue
office has two exits “like a high-end plastic surgeon” to
assure discretion. “Compensation has been recalibrated.”  Michael Karp , 42, CEO of New York-based recruitment firm
Options Group Inc., said Wall Street pay will fall 30 percent
this year, and more for executives. It will be flat or down even
in businesses doing relatively well, such as emerging markets
and commodities, he said.  Job Cuts  Those are the survivors. The biggest global banks already
had been cutting jobs at the fastest rate since 2008 when  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  said last month that it will eliminate 30,000
positions. London-based HSBC Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s largest
lender, aims to shed the same amount. UBS, Switzerland’s biggest
bank, is shrinking after a $2.3 billion trading loss.  “Sharply” falling profits will lead to almost 10,000
financial-services job cuts in  New York City  by the end of 2012,
according to a report released yesterday by New York State
Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli. The prospects for Wall Street
“have cooled considerably,” he said in a statement.  “The stress levels are getting very high,” said MSD
Capital’s Phelan.  The 46-year-old hedge-fund manager said the current
aversion to risk across Wall Street could jeopardize profits.  “It’s one of the things I struggle with: Everybody’s risk-
off, so should I be risk-on?” he said. “There are so many
things I have to worry about.”  Two former Goldman Sachs managing directors who asked not
to be identified because they weren’t authorized by their
current firms to speak, one a former management committee member
and the other a trading head, also said they were worried that
investment bankers have lost their appetite for risk.  Torrisi Italian Specialties  Uncertainty didn’t stop some on Wall Street from profiting
during the U.S. housing collapse, when Deutsche Bank AG trader
Greg Lippmann helped create and profited from a multibillion-
dollar market in subprime-based derivatives. He said Wall Street
will have fewer exotic products to sell and trade, drawing an
analogy to the popular no-reservations restaurant Torrisi
Italian Specialties.  “No  choosing , great food, low price, no pizzazz,” said
Lippmann, co-founder of New York hedge fund LibreMax Capital
LLC. “A couple of years ago, the hottest place to go would be
someplace that they just spent $5 million decorating and they’ve
got three or four models answering the phones. People want
stripped-down now.”  ‘Everybody Hates Me’  That isn’t diminishing lobbying efforts to soften rules
mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, which would reduce risk, curtail
proprietary trading and force more transparency in the $601
trillion derivatives market. Large financial institutions have
been “exceedingly aggressive at trying to roll back reform”
and have largely succeeded, said Greenlight Capital Inc.
President  David Einhorn , 42, who bet against Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in the months before that firm’s collapse.  Leon Cooperman , the first Goldman Sachs Asset Management
CEO and head of hedge fund Omega Advisors Inc. in New York, said
Wall Street has been “excessively” blamed and President Barack Obama has “continued to project himself as anti-wealth, anti-
business and socialist in his leanings.”  Phelan said he’s worried about “social unrest.”  “My taxes are going up,” he said. “Everybody hates me. I
have two friends who bought land in New Zealand. They’re trying
to convince me to go.”  He isn’t planning to visit.  “I’m not one of those extreme people,” he said.  Occupy Wall Street  A version of that social unrest is taking place in lower
 Manhattan ’s Zuccotti Park, where Occupy Wall Street protests
against bank bailouts and income inequality have gained support
from Nobel Prize-winning economists Joseph Stiglitz and Paul Krugman. On Oct. 1, police halted a march over the Brooklyn
Bridge, arresting about 700, and have used pepper spray.  “We have too many regulations stopping democracy and not
enough regulations stopping Wall Street from misbehaving,”
Stiglitz, an economics professor at Columbia University, told
protesters the next day. “We are bearing the cost of their
misdeeds. There’s a system where we’ve socialized losses and
privatized gains. That’s not capitalism.”  Bankers aren’t optimistic about those gains. Options
Group’s Karp said he met last month over tea at the Gramercy
Park Hotel in New York with a trader who made $500,000 last year
at one of the six largest U.S. banks.  The trader, a 27-year-old Ivy League graduate, complained
that he has worked harder this year and will be paid less. The
headhunter told him to stay put and collect his bonus.  “This is very demoralizing to people,” Karp said.
“Especially young guys who have gone to college and wanted to
come onto the Street, having dreams of becoming millionaires.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  