-- 
Wasserstein Haunts Harry & David in Buyout Doomed to Bankruptcy

-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 
2011-10-12T04:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/wasserstein-haunts-harry-david-in-buyout-doomed-to-bankruptcy.html
Bruce Wasserstein , dead for two
years, still casts a pall over the Rogue River Valley of
southern Oregon.  There, in and around the town of Medford, more than 2,000
employees of Harry & David Holdings Inc., the century-old seller
of mail-order pears and holiday fruit baskets, labor at a
company that went bankrupt in March 2011 after private-equity
firm Wasserstein & Co. loaded it with $200 million of debt that
it couldn’t pay back -- even as Wasserstein’s firm took profits
for itself.  For decades, Harry & David set the standard for high-
quality fruit, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its
November issue. Its Royal Riviera pears, sold worldwide, are
known elsewhere as Comice, a sweet and juicy variety developed
in  France  that fared even better in southern  Oregon , where the
soil is volcanic and the winters are mild.  In 2005, when Harry & David was preparing to sell shares to
the public, the company cited a survey saying that 60 percent of
Americans earning more than $75,000 knew the Harry & David
brand.  “Back in the day, they offered a very distinctive product,”
says Pamela Danziger, president of Unity Marketing, a Stevens,
Pennsylvania-based company that researches luxury goods. “Over
time, they became less distinctive. Specialty fruit became much
more available.”  Debt Load  Harry & David’s journey from an industry standard for
holiday gift giving -- about 60 percent of sales happen from
Thanksgiving to Christmas -- to bankruptcy shows what can happen
when a private-equity investor like Wasserstein freights a small
company with debt, making it more vulnerable to the ravages of
recession and competition.  When Wasserstein took over Harry & David in 2004, it was
the fourth buyer in 20 years, with three of the new owners
paying a substantial premium to the previous one.  The bankrupting of one of Oregon’s oldest corporations
under New York-based Wasserstein riles local officials. Harry &
David is the largest non-health-care employer in the region. It
hires 6,000 temporary workers every year to pick, pack, and ship
fruit. Those jobs are crucial in Medford, a city where
unemployment stood at 11.6 percent in August compared with 9.6
percent for the rest of the state.  “Many people here see the Wasserstein people lining their
pockets,” says Jackson County Commissioner Don Skundrick. “There
is strong feeling in the community that they are taking Harry &
David down the road to ruin.”  Retirement Plan Dumped  Former employees are angry, too. Medford is rife with
executives that the new management fired, and 2,700 workers and
retirees had their pensions terminated and shifted to the
government-sponsored Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. after
Wasserstein & Co. and other bondholders made dumping the
retirement plan a condition for investing $55 million in the
company after it emerged from bankruptcy.  In the year leading up to the bankruptcy, Harry & David was
run by Steve Heyer, a former president of  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and
chief executive officer of  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT)  He riled repeat customers by changing the product line and
also pursued promotions, including one with Oprah Winfrey, that
boosted costs without lifting sales, according to former
employees.  Those employees declined to be identified, saying they’re
concerned that talking on the record would make other companies
wary of employing them.  Friend of Bruce  Heyer was a friend of Bruce Wasserstein, whose firm had
sold Odwalla Inc., one of its portfolio companies, to Coke in
2001 when Heyer was running a new venture unit there.
Wasserstein invited him onto the board of  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , which
Wasserstein ran from 2001 until his death.  At Harry & David, Heyer collected a salary of $500,000 a
year and was awarded options to buy 15 percent of the company’s
closely held stock. Heyer also got plenty of perks: Wasserstein
let him run the company from Atlanta, and his employment
contract called for him to fly first-class to Medford. Early in
his tenure, Heyer leased a private jet to fly to  Seattle  to try
(unsuccessfully) to persuade Starbucks Corp. to sell Harry &
David products.  Heyer is now chairman of  Next3D Inc. , an Atlanta-based
company that streams 3-D movies to subscribers, a job he had
while he was running Harry & David. He declined to comment.  Heyer’s replacement, restructuring expert Kay Hong,
commutes from  San Francisco . She took the company into
bankruptcy and was paid $26,000 a week to run it in
receivership, according to bankruptcy court filings.  Cutting Prices  Cassandra Bujarski, a spokeswoman for Wasserstein & Co.,
who is at Sard Verbinnen & Co. in  Los Angeles , said Hong
declined to be interviewed for this story.  Harry & David emerged from bankruptcy on Sept. 14. It had
sought protection from creditors in March after Heyer sharply
cut prices on gourmet pears, fancy fruit baskets and Moose Munch
caramel corn during the December 2010 holidays, former employees
say.  Revenue had been soft in the wake of the financial crisis,
and when the 2010 holidays were over, sales for the period had
fallen 2 percent, to $262 million, according to company filings.
Heyer’s discounting drove net income down 56 percent, to $13.8
million.  Wasserstein & Co. and another private-equity company,
Highfields Capital Management LP of  Boston , bought Harry & David
from Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Co., then  Japan ’s third-largest
drugmaker, for $253 million in June 2004, putting up $82.6
million in cash and borrowing the rest.  Early Return  Eight months later, Harry & David sold $245 million of
bonds, some of the proceeds of which went to pay Wasserstein and
Highfields a dividend of $82.6 million. Months later, the firms
took two more payouts totaling $19 million, assuring them a 23
percent return no matter what happened to sales of fancy pears
and mixed nuts.  Harry & David fell victim to a practice that’s common in
the private-equity industry, says Brian Quinn, assistant
professor at Boston College Law School and a specialist in
mergers and acquisitions.  Directing a company to sell bonds and then taking the
proceeds is legal, he says. Whether it’s best for the purchased
company is another matter.  “It doesn’t pass the smell test,” Quinn says. “They are
running this company without anything at stake.”  Ellis Jones, CEO of Wasserstein & Co., says Harry & David’s
debt load was small compared with other companies taken over by
private-equity firms.  ‘More Equity’  “We bought Harry & David with more equity than you would
normally in the private-equity business,” he says.  Even after the bond sale, Harry & David had less debt than
most buyout targets, he says. Until the 2008 crisis, its average
debt was about 2.5 times Ebitda, or earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, Jones says.  The average multiple of debt to Ebitda for retail companies
owned by private-equity firms from 2005 through 2008 was 1.5
times, according to Bloomberg’s M&A database.  Wasserstein & Co. was a private-equity sideline for Bruce
Wasserstein, the deal savant who helped combine Time Inc. and
Warner Communications Inc. in 1990, a year after advising
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. on how to swallow RJR Nabisco Inc.
for $25 billion -- a drama chronicled in the best-selling book
“Barbarians at the Gate” (HarperCollins, 1990).  Sudden Death  The former CEO of Wasserstein Perella Group Inc. and then
Lazard died suddenly of heart failure in October 2009 at 61.
Wasserstein’s namesake company manages money left to his heirs
through a trust as well as funds invested by the Pennsylvania
Public School Employees’ Retirement System and other
institutions.  Two of the five companies Wasserstein & Co. currently owns
-- Harry & David and magazine publisher Penton Media Inc. --
have been through bankruptcy in the past two years. A third,
Hanley Wood LLC, a publisher of construction periodicals, was
downgraded to CCC this year by ratings firm  Standard & Poor’s ,
which questioned Hanley’s ability to comply with loan covenants
because of poor performance.  Wasserstein investors, however, have made money on both
bankrupt companies, Jones says: Harry & David through dividends
and Penton when another private-equity firm bought a stake
before it sought protection.  Wasserstein & Co. started life as the buyout unit of
investment bank Wasserstein Perella. It went independent in
January 2001 after  Germany ’s Dresdner Bank AG bought the rest of
Wasserstein Perella for $1.56 billion. Much of the firm’s job is
managing the proceeds of that sale for Bruce Wasserstein’s
estate.  Fund Loss  Wasserstein has launched two private-equity funds: U.S.
Equity Partners I & II. The first fund, started at Wasserstein
Perella in 1997, had an internal rate of return of negative 1.6
percent before it liquidated its investments and shut down in
2009, according to the Pennsylvania retirement fund, which
invested $73.8 million and got back $67.2 million.  USEP II, which started in 2001 and still owns companies,
including Harry & David, had an internal return of 10.6 percent
as of Dec. 31, the retirement fund says. The pension fund had
put in $214.6 million and had gotten back $202.2 million as of
the end of 2010.  “They would have trouble raising a new fund today with that
performance,” says Steven Kaplan, a professor at the University
of Chicago’s Booth School of Business.  Gift Pears  Harry & David was launched by an Oregon business pioneer
named Sam Rosenberg who in 1910 bought 240 acres (97 hectares)
in the Rogue River Valley called Bear Creek Orchards. After
Sam’s death in 1914, his sons, Harry and David, both Cornell
University-educated agriculturists, started shipping their pears
to upscale restaurants in  Europe . They survived the Great
Depression by persuading corporate leaders to send the Royal
Rivieras as gifts to customers.  The brothers launched their Fruit-of-the-Month Club in
1938, and sales jumped. Around the same time they changed their
last name to Holmes to skirt a boycott of goods from Jewish-
owned companies by Germany, according to a history of Harry &
David by  Portland  State University.  David died in a car crash in 1950, and Harry left the
business three years later because of a heart condition. Harry &
David continued to prosper under new managers by selling gourmet
foods that at the time weren’t available in food markets.  By 1961, the company had sales of $8 million, and it
continued to grow steadily from there, according to the
International Directory of Company Histories (St. James Press,
2001).  IPO  Harry & David sold shares to the public in 1976. It
remained independent until 1984, when R.J. Reynolds Industries
Inc., a tobacco company looking to acquire fast-growing
businesses, took it over for $74 million.  Two years later, vitamin maker Shaklee Corp. paid Reynolds,
by then called RJR Nabisco Inc., $123 million for it. Then, in
1989, Japan’s Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical swallowed up Shaklee.  Through all these owners, Harry & David kept growing. In
1993, it began supplementing its mail-order business with a
network of retail stores. In 1997, sales hit $300 million,
according to the International Directory.  Yamanouchi hired  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to help sell the company,
and the bankers reached out to Wasserstein because it was known
as a buyer of mid-sized consumer companies, Jones says.
Wasserstein & Co. took over in June 2004.  Harry & David posted record mail-order sales for the year
that included the 2004 holidays. Bruce Wasserstein then
authorized the 2005 bond sale.  Tough Christmas  Business started going downhill in September 2008, when
markets seized just before Harry & David’s busiest season and
many corporate executives cut back on gifts to customers.  “This event happened before our one selling period,” Jones
says. “You can imagine that the Christmas we had was extremely
difficult.”  During the next two years, sales continued to fall, hurt in
part by competition from Internet retailers like  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN) , which had begun selling its own fancy fruit baskets
created by other producers. Revenue fell 13 percent in the year
ended in June 2010 to $426.8 million. The year before, it had
fallen 10 percent.  In February 2010, four months after Wasserstein died, the
buyout firm ousted Harry & David CEO Bill Williams, a 21-year
veteran.  Pop Ups  Heyer, now 59, immediately shook things up. He added
artisanal cheese to Harry & David’s gift baskets and opened 16
“pop-up” stores -- operations that occupied rented space for
just a month or two -- in cities including Boston,  New York  and
San Francisco. Harry & David had about 125 permanent stores
nationwide at the time. Heyer also started selling chicken pies
made by two women on Cape Cod who had won Oprah Winfrey as a
booster.  Nothing worked. Heyer spent too much on expensive fixtures
for the pop-up stores, a former employee says. And the fancy
cheese raised costs, another says. The chicken pies didn’t meet
expectations, a former employee says.  “I feel like we were a little used,” says Kristin Broadley,
co-founder of  Centerville Pie Co.   In early 2010, Heyer leased a corporate jet to fly to
Seattle to pitch Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz on selling Harry &
David products in his 17,000 coffee shops, according to a former
employee familiar with the trip. They met for about 90 minutes.
Schultz was polite but didn’t commit to anything, the person
says. Heyer and his team stayed at Seattle’s Four Seasons, the
former employee says.  ‘Jackhammer’  Heyer was a risky choice for Harry & David, says Tom Pirko,
president of Bevmark LLC, a Buellton, California-based
consultant to the food and beverage industries. Pirko got to
know Heyer when Heyer was at Coca-Cola and Pirko was a
consultant to the company, Pirko says.  “Steve came in with a jackhammer,” he says.  Shortly after his promotion to Coca-Cola president in 2002,
the company fired 1,000 people.  “He was the most-hated person in Atlanta,” says Pirko, who
says he likes and respects Heyer.  In 2004, Heyer was passed over for the post of CEO.
Instead, the company brought Neville Isdell out of retirement to
take the job. Heyer resigned, collecting $23 million in
severance, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, and
was soon hired as CEO of Starwood Hotels. In April 2007, he
resigned after losing the support of the board of directors.  Style Issues  “Issues with regard to his management style have led us to
lose confidence in his leadership,” board member Stephen Quazzo
said in a statement at the time.  Heyer declined to comment.  Heyer hit Harry & David like a hurricane, according to
former executives there. He fired many of Bill Williams’s
managers and brought in his own. He often called Harry & David
workers “idiots,” two former employees say.  Heyer required managers to sign a one-page “culture
contract” laying out the methods they would use to run the
company.  “We give straight and frequent feedback,” the contract
says. “We hate long meetings and never have them without a
decision-making purpose. We hate gravity, old thinking and
habits. Our favorite word is NEXT!”  Heyer changed the company slogan to Happiness Delivered and
called himself “chief happiness officer” in at least one press
release.  Basket Changes  One of Heyer’s biggest blunders, former employees say, was
rearranging the contents of Harry & David  gift baskets . He had
workers lay out samples of all the baskets in a warehouse, and
he went down the line, adding and removing items, one former
worker says. The changes made it impossible for returning
customers to easily repeat an order from the year before on
forms that the company sent out, former employees say, and many
customers didn’t buy.  Heyer also closed one of Harry & David’s two call centers
and hired Cincinnati-based  Convergys Corp. (CVG)  to do the work, with
operators taking calls from their homes. Customers frustrated
with the Convergys salespeople abandoned more orders than they
had in the past, former employees say.  Heyer canceled the contract in February, according to a
complaint filed by Convergys against Harry & David in U.S.
District Court in Medford in March, saying that Harry & David
failed to pay $3.1 million to terminate the contract.  Pie Gambit  Heyer expected big things from the Oprah deal, former
employees say. The project got started in August 2009, when
Broadley, who had just started Centerville Pie with longtime
friend Laurie Bowen, heard that Oprah Winfrey was on Cape Cod
for Eunice Kennedy Shriver’s funeral. Broadley found Winfrey’s
hotel and dropped off two pies -- one peach and one chicken.
Winfrey loved them, Broadley says.  Months later, Winfrey’s producer called to invite them to
appear on the show on Sept. 17, 2010. When the show aired,
Winfrey surprised them by announcing a deal for Harry & David to
distribute the pies as part of her Ultimate Wildest Dreams
program to help small companies.  Viewers ordered 280,000 pies via Harry & David. That was
good for Centerville Pie, but it missed Harry & David’s
projections, two former employees say. At the time of its
bankruptcy, Harry & David owed $279,000 for a final batch of
pies, Broadley says.  Heyer had been CEO for 10 months when the 2010 holiday
selling season arrived. It didn’t go well. When the company
reported earnings for the quarter in February, Heyer warned that
it couldn’t finance operations without new capital.  New Leader  Ten days later, Jones and Wasserstein President George Majoros ousted Heyer as CEO. They brought in Hong, a turnaround
expert from Alvarez & Marsal, a New York-based management firm.  Heyer worked extremely hard to try and fix Harry & David,
says Jones, who insists the moves Heyer made were the right
ones.  “We think very highly of Steve,” Jones says. “He’s
extraordinarily smart.”  Hong, who had experience reviving Eddie Bauer Holdings Inc.
and Spiegel Inc., took the company into bankruptcy a month after
arriving. One of her first tasks was to deal with investor
demands that she get $23.6 million in unfunded pension
liabilities off Harry & David’s books.  Wasserstein & Co. had purchased Harry & David debt when it
fell in price after the 2008 holidays. It joined other
bondholders in an agreement to lend it an additional $55 million
after the company emerged from bankruptcy, Harry & David said in
court documents.  Court Blessing  Wasserstein wouldn’t put up the money unless the retirement
benefits were turned over to the U.S. Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corp., a move that a federal judge would have to bless.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary F. Walrath in  Delaware  did so in
August, and Harry & David’s unfunded liabilities will now be
covered in part by premiums paid by all companies that have
defined-benefit pension plans.  The PBGC had argued that the move was unjustified because
Harry & David’s survival wasn’t at issue.  “PBGC fought to keep the Harry & David pension plan going
because the agency’s analysis found that the company could
afford it,” PBGC spokesman Marc Hopkins says in an e-mail. “The
plan was terminated largely to increase investor returns, not
out of necessity to emerge from bankruptcy.”  When Harry & David came out of bankruptcy on Sept. 14,
Wasserstein remained an owner. That means Jones and Majoros will
still have a say in how the company is operated in the future.
For the citizens of Medford, Oregon, the question remains
whether what’s best for Bruce Wasserstein’s heirs is also good
for the thousands of people who depend on Harry & David for
jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Effinger in Portland, Oregon, at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 