-- 
Western Wind Chief Says Algonquin Bid Undervalues Firm by Half

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-10-12T20:14:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/western-wind-chief-says-algonquin-bid-undervalues-firm-by-half.html
Western Wind Energy Corp. (WND)  Chief
Executive Officer Jeffrey Ciachurski said a takeover bid from
Algonquin Power and Utilities Corp. undervalues his Canadian
producer of renewable energy by at least half.  Algonquin, the Oakville, Ontario-based utility operator,
offered C$2.50 a share yesterday for Western Wind, based in
 Vancouver . Ciachurski said in an interview today that Western
Wind should be valued at about twice that.  “The bid price is less than half of the valuation,” he
said by telephone. “There’s no way we could rightfully endorse
a C$2.50 bid.”  Western Wind is valued at C$364 million ($358 million), or
more than C$5 a share, according to DAI Management Consultants
Inc., Western Wind said in a statement in August. The stock
closed at C$1.33 on Oct. 7, the last trading day before the
offer became public yesterday. The shares had their biggest
rally in more than a decade yesterday, surging 58 percent, and
fell 1.9 percent to C$2.06 at 4:08 p.m. Toronto time.  Western Wind would be a better target for a U.S.-based
acquirer because most of its projects are in the U.S. and
renewable energy subsidies there would provide a benefit for the
company, Ciachurski said.  Tax Credits  Those benefits, in the form of tax credits, add almost
C$1.60 a share to Western Wind’s value for a buyer with at least
$300 million in taxable U.S. income, said John McIlveen, an
analyst at Jacob Securities Inc. in Toronto who has rated the
stock “speculative buy” since March, 2010, when it was trading
at C$1.53. Algonquin had C$108 million of U.S. revenue in 2010.  Combined with the value of Western Wind’s upcoming
projects, the tax benefits mean the company may be valued at C$5
a share, McIlveen said. Buyers may include U.S. utilities and
independent power operators, said McIlveen, whose C$2.35 price
target includes only existing projects and those that are fully
equity financed.  Algonquin submitted a “non-binding expression of interest
to engage in discussions with Western Wind,” Kelly Castledine,
a spokeswoman for the company, wrote in an e-mail today.  Algonquin spoke with some Western Wind shareholders and
said it’s “confident” they would support the C$2.50 offer,
Algonquin said in a statement yesterday.  Lawrence Casse, a spokesman for Western Wind, said the
company is seeking advice from investment banks and hasn’t
retained advisers yet.  Western Wind has two  wind farms  with a total capacity of
34.5 megawatts operating in  California  and a 10.5 megawatt wind
and solar project in  Arizona . It plans to bring its 120 megawatt
Windstar wind farm online this year, also in California, and is
developing a project in  Puerto Rico .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  