-- 
Wheat, Corn Futures Decline as USDA Forecasts Rising World Inventories

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-10-12T19:46:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/wheat-corn-tumble-most-this-month-on-rising-inventories-soybeans-decline.html
Wheat futures tumbled the most this
month and corn fell after the U.S. government boosted its
estimates for global stockpiles, signaling increased supplies
for makers of food, animal feed and ethanol.  World inventories of wheat before next year’s Northern
Hemisphere harvests may total 202.37 million metric tons, the
most since 2002, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said today
in a report. Global corn reserves were pegged at 123.19 million
tons, 4.9 percent higher than a September forecast. Both
projections exceeded analysts’ expectations. The USDA also cut
its estimates for exports of both commodities.  Corn and wheat prices this year reached the highest since
touching records in 2008, as rising demand for meat boosted
consumption of grain used in livestock feed, and as refining of
grain-based fuels increased. While production of both crops will
decline this year in the U.S., the world’s largest exporter,
output is growing elsewhere.  “With these high prices in the world, people are trying to
cut back a little on demand,”  Don Roose , the president of U.S.
Commodities Inc. in  West Des Moines ,  Iowa , said in a telephone
interview. “High prices have been the signal for more
production, at the same time.”  Wheat Plunges  Wheat futures for December delivery plunged 5.1 percent to
settle at $6.2675 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of
Trade, the biggest drop since Sept. 30. The price has fallen 21
percent this year.  Yesterday, wheat surged 8.1 percent on speculation that the
U.S. might recover lost market share in exports. Wheat touched a
three-month high in August, before tumbling 23 percent in
September.  “Never underestimate the supply response of farmers to
high prices,” said  Sal Gilbertie , the president of  Santa Fe ,
New Mexico-based Teucrium Trading LLC, which this year added
exchange-trade products linked to wheat and soybeans. “Global
wheat production rose because of the high prices.”  Corn futures for December delivery dropped 0.7 percent to
settle at $6.4075 a bushel on the CBOT, the first drop in three
days. The most-active contract earlier reached a two-week high
of $6.55, after yesterday jumping the exchange limit of 40
cents. The price has gained 11 percent in the past year.  World corn production in the crop year that began Oct. 1
will be a record 860.09 million tons, up 3.8 percent from a year
earlier, the USDA said. The agency boosted its forecast for
 China ’s crop by 2.2 percent to a record 182 million tons, and
said Ukraine will harvest 21 million tons, up 76 percent from
last year.  ‘Weaker’ Exports  “The increased crops in China and Ukraine will deter U.S.
exports,”  Rich Nelson , the director of research for McHenry,
Illinois-based Allendale Inc., said in a telephone interview.
“Exports will be weaker, but lower prices may spur some fresh
buying.”  U.S. corn exports in the marketing year that began Oct. 1
will fall to 40.64 million tons, down 13 percent from last year
and the lowest since 2003, the USDA said today. Wheat exports
forecast at 26.54 million tons were below last month’s estimate
and 25 percent smaller than last year.  “The demand side of the corn balance sheet is understated,
Teucrium’s Gilbertie said. “Demand at these prices is more
inelastic,” limiting additional losses because margins for meat
and fuel producers have improved, Gilbertie  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, USDA data show.
Wheat ranks fourth at $13 billion, behind hay.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  