-- 
Women Hold Just 9% of Top Posts at 350 Largest U.K. Companies

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-10-12T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/women-hold-just-9-of-top-posts-at-350-largest-u-k-companies.html
Women account for just nine percent
of all board members at Britain’s 350 largest companies even as
research shows companies with women in senior roles perform
better, according to Deloitte LLP.  Almost half of Britain’s 350 largest companies have no
women directors while a fifth of all companies in the benchmark
FTSE 100 Index had no female directors, Deloitte said today in a
report entitled Board Structure and Non-Executive Directors’
Fees. Women account for nine percent of all board members at
FTSE 350 companies, compared with five percent a decade ago. At
the current growth rate, it will take another 20 years for
representation to increase to 30 percent, Deloitte said.  Prime Minister David Cameron yesterday called on companies
to appoint more women directors, as a progress report showed
they are not meeting the target set by a government-appointed
panel. The panel, led by former Standard Chartered Plc Chairman
 Mervyn Davies , recommended in February that a third of all new
directors should be female. Women have made up 22.5 percent of
board appointments by FTSE 250 companies since then, according
to a report yesterday by Cranfield University.  “The number of companies where there are no female board
members is quite shocking,” Carol Arrowsmith, remuneration
partner at Deloitte, said in the report. “There is a wealth of
research which demonstrates companies with women in senior
positions perform better.”  The government panel said in February that FTSE 100
companies should seek to double the percentage of women board
members to at least 25 percent. Of the 250 appointments made at
FTSE 350 listed companies since February, excluding  investment
trusts , about 20 percent were women, Deloitte said.  About a quarter of all non-executive directors appointed in
the period were women, compared with a tenth of the executive
positions filled. Women now represent 12 percent of non-
executive and 5 percent of executive directors of companies on
the FTSE 350 Index, the study said.  The report is based on information from the latest report
and accounts of companies the FTSE 350 as at 1 July 2011,
excluding 49 investment trusts, said Deloitte in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  