-- 
Yen Strength Seen Costing Toyota More Than Record Quake: Cars

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 
2011-10-12T07:27:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/yen-strength-seen-costing-toyota-more-than-record-earthquake-impact-cars.html
The earthquake that crippled  Japan 
in March may cost  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  less than the rising yen.  Operating profit for the world’s top carmaker will be cut
by 250 billion yen ($3.3 billion) in the year ending March 31
because of the currency’s advance, based on the average estimate
of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The natural disaster may
cost 160 billion yen, Toyota said in August.  “There is pent-up demand and with production back to
normal, Toyota can quickly make up for the reduction in output
due to the quake,” Issei Takahashi, a Tokyo-based auto analyst
at Credit Suisse Group AG, which has a “neutral” rating on the
carmaker. “It’s more of the reality of the strong yen that
Toyota needs to tackle.”  The maker of the Prius and Camry produces two out of five
vehicles in Japan, making it more vulnerable to the yen than
Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co. The currency’s climb, to a
postwar high against the dollar in August and the strongest in a
decade versus the euro last month, is an added headwind for
Toyota, which was outsold by  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  in the first six months of the year.  Toyota fell 0.3 percent to 2,582 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
Tokyo trading. The stock has fallen 29 percent since March 10,
the day before the temblor.  “We are struggling,” Toyota’s Chief Financial Officer
Satoshi Ozawa said Oct. 10 at the automaker’s factory in Ovar,
 Portugal . “We are facing a difficult time. We have to reduce
our production costs to compensate for the currency situation.”  That may involve shifting manufacturing from Japan “to
some extent,” he said.  Ozawa and Managing Officer Shigeru Hayakawa will meet the
press to report Toyota’s second-quarter earnings Nov. 8.  Price Cuts  Toyota is telling parts suppliers to slash prices or face
being replaced by overseas rivals, according to four people
involved with the discussions.  The Toyota City, Japan-based automaker made the demand for
price cuts to its 219 largest domestic suppliers at the end of
August, including  Denso Corp. (6902)  and Aisin Seiki Co., at a meeting
held in Nagano prefecture, according to the people.  Every one-yen advance against the dollar cuts Toyota’s
operating income by 34 billion yen, while a gain versus the euro
reduces operating income by 6 billion yen, according to the
company’s full-year forecast in August. Toyota is basing this
year’s forecast on 80 yen to the dollar and 116 yen to the euro.  The yen traded at 76.66 to the dollar yesterday, extending
this year’s gain to 6.1 percent. The Japanese currency has risen
4.3 percent in 2011 against the euro, which traded at 104.25.  Toyota made about 45 percent of its cars in Japan last
year, compared with 25 percent for Nissan Motor Co. and 26
percent for Honda Motor Co.  Honda, Nissan  Honda expects a 71 billion yen cut in operating profit
while Nissan sees a 135 billion yen reduction because of the
yen’s climb this year.  Japan’s government needs to establish “a normal  exchange
rate ,”  Carlos Ghosn , Nissan’s chief executive officer, said on
Oct. 6.  The yen is expected to trade at 79 yen to the dollar in the
year ending March 31, according to the average of 43 analyst
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  “Sooner or later, Toyota will have to revise its
forecast,”  Kohei Takahashi , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
said in a phone interview.  Toyota said Aug. 2 it expects the strong yen to cut
operating profit by 160 billion yen in the year ending March 31
to 450 billion yen, compared with an earlier forecast in June
for a 100 billion yen drop. The carmaker put the one-time cost
from lost production of 150,000 units after the quake at 160
billion yen.  Parts Shortage  Credit Suisse estimates the yen impact at 260 billion yen,
TIW sees a 350 billion yen cut in operating profit, and JPMorgan
estimates a drop of 200 billion yen. Citigroup Inc. and
Carnorama predict declines due to the currency at 238.4 billion
yen and 200 billion yen respectively.  Toyota temporarily halted all production after the
magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami on March 11 triggered a
shortage of parts and electricity.  The resulting cutbacks caused the automaker to fall behind
GM and VW in global sales in the first half of the year.  Toyota and subsidiaries Daihatsu Motor Co. and Hino Motors
Ltd. sold a combined 3.71 million vehicles worldwide in the
first half. GM, based in  Detroit , sold 4.54 million cars and
light trucks, while Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW sold 4.13
million vehicles, according to statements by the companies.  The  Bank of Japan  last week held off adding more monetary
stimulus. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his policy board
members unanimously kept the overnight lending rate between zero
and 0.1 percent at a meeting in  Tokyo  Oct. 7, the central bank
said in a statement.  Loan Program  They also left credit and asset-buying programs totaling 50
trillion yen unchanged, while extending a loan program in
earthquake-affected areas. Shirakawa called existing easing
measures “powerful.”  Toyota reported global production in August rose for the
first time in 12 months, showing the automaker’s return to
normal production. Output in August rose 10.6 percent to 626,817
vehicles, the first increase since September 2010, when the
government ended subsidies for fuel-efficient cars. The
automaker has pledged to maintain domestic production of 3
million units.  Still, Toyota lost market share in the U.S. and expects
dealers’ inventories to return to pre-quake levels by March,
according to spokeswoman Amiko Tomita. Held back by tight
supplies of Prius hybrids and Tundra pickups, Toyota’s market
share fell to 11.5 percent from 15.3 percent a year earlier in
September, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  “Toyota needs to quickly come up with a strategy to
maintain its earnings,” said  Satoru Takada  at TIW. “It doesn’t
seem like the yen will weaken anytime soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  