-- 
Tymoshenko Prison Sentence Strengthens Russia’s Hand in Ukraine Gas Talks

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-10-13T17:58:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/tymoshenko-prison-sentence-strengthens-russia.html
Former Ukrainian Prime Minister
 Yulia Tymoshenko ’s prison sentence may have squashed President
 Viktor Yanukovych ’s drive for closer ties with the European
Union, putting him at Russia’s mercy before gas-price talks.  Tymoshenko, 50, was sent to prison on Oct. 11 for abuse of
power when signing a 10-year gas supply and transit agreements
with Russia in 2009. The verdict may have “profound
implications” for Ukraine’s relations with the EU, the bloc’s
executive said. The U.S. also condemned the sentencing. She may
face 12 more years in prison if found guilty under charges in a
new criminal probe started today.  Before Tymoshenko’s trial, Ukraine was set to sign an
Association Agreement with the EU this year, which would have
included a free-trade area with the bloc. The former Soviet
republic, which depends on steel and chemicals exports, relies
on  Russia  for more than 60 percent of its gas needs.  “Ukraine’s already stuttering movement towards” the EU
“has come to a grinding halt,” Tomas Valasek, director of
foreign policy and defense at the Centre for European Reform in
 London , said in a telephone interview. “What they’ve done is
sacrifice the European option for the sake of domestic political
gains. Against their wishes, they are now somewhat closer to
Russia.”  New Probe  Ukraine’s security service opened a new criminal probe
against the former premier today into whether she unlawfully
transferred $405 million of debt owed to Russia by United Energy
Systems, a company she headed in the late 1990s, to the state
budget, making it guaranteed state debt, Ivan Derevyanko, head
of investigations at the security service, told Ukrainian
private television Channel 5. The offense is punishable by up to
12 years in prison, he said.  Putin has tried to convince Ukraine to join a Russia-led
customs union that includes Kazakhstan and Belarus, instead of
seeking EU membership, which is “absolutely unrealistic,”
according to a Sept. 16 comment by the Russian premier, who is
seeking to return to the presidency next year.  ‘Deeply Disappointed’  The U.S. is “deeply disappointed” by the “politically
motivated prosecution” of Tymoshenko, State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  in  Washington  said Oct. 11. U.K.
Prime Minister David Cameron yesterday called Tymoshenko’s
treatment “absolutely disgraceful.”  The Tymoshenko verdict “appears politically motivated”
and has an “anti-Russian” flavor, the Foreign Ministry in
Moscow said in a statement on Oct. 11. The gas contracts are
“valid and must be honored,” according to the statement.  Yanukovych seeks lower gas prices by renegotiating the
terms of the Tymoshenko accord by the end of this month. He will
meet Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  in Donetsk, eastern
Ukraine. on Oct. 18 to discuss the agreement.  He will argue that the court decision on Tymoshenko proves
that the agreement is void because it violated Ukrainian law,
the Kommersant newspaper in Kiev reported yesterday, citing an
unidentified government official with knowledge of the matter.  ‘Active’ Talks  “Talks with our Ukrainian colleagues are very active, but
there are lots of outstanding questions,”  Alexei Miller , the
chief executive officer at OAO Gazprom, said late yesterday
after meeting with Ukraine’s Energy and Coal Minister Yuriy Boyko. “For sure, we will not reach any final agreements in
coming days. I think that first result s will be no earlier than
in November”.  Tymoshenko signed the gas supply and transit agreements
with her Russian counterpart,  Vladimir Putin , in January 2009
after a price dispute between the two countries disrupted
deliveries to at least 20 nations for two weeks amid freezing
temperatures.  Yanukovych has called the gas agreement “discriminatory,
unfair and enslaving.” He wants to cut the price to $230 per
cubic meter from next year’s expected level of $415. Russia,
whose government backed Yanukovych in the past, has rejected his
attempts to renegotiate the terms.  Ukraine got a discount in April 2010 in exchange for
extending a lease for Russia’s  Black Sea Fleet  in Ukraine’s
Crimea. A new price formula now sought by Ukraine would
guarantee even lower costs.  ‘Better Deal’  Yanukovych will probably be forced to make concessions “to
negotiate a better deal on Russian gas,” Valasek said, adding
that “it’s not something they’ll do with joy.” Ukraine may be
forced to sell NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, Ukraine’s biggest energy
company, or other government-owned assets to Russian investors,
Valasek predicted.  Yanukovych has rejected repeated Russian takeover offers
for Naftogaz in return for a new gas contract and threatened to
sue Russia in international courts over the gas price.  “Europe and the U.S may isolate Ukraine” for imprisoning
Tymoshenko, Vladimir Zastava, an expert at Kiev-based think tank
Gorshenin Institute, said in an Oct. 11 phone interview.
“Should Ukraine be isolated, it doesn’t have any resources to
compete with Russia. Relations will be like boss and
dependent.”  Tymoshenko, who has been in police custody since her Aug. 5
arrest, will remain there until a ruling on her appeal of the
verdict, her spokeswoman Natalia Lysova said by phone. She is
due to serve her term in Kiev’s Lukyanivka Remand Prison,
according to the court. She was also fined 1.5 billion hryvnia
($187 million), owed to Naftogaz for damages, the court said.  Narrow Victory  Yanukovych beat Tymoshenko by less than 4 percentage points
in the February 2010 election. He won on a platform of balancing
Russian influence with integrating the country’s 46 million
people more closely with  Europe .  The two leaders have been at odds since 2004, when
Tymoshenko helped lead the Orange Revolution that led to  Viktor Yushchenko ’s victory over Yanukovych in presidential elections.  Tymoshenko claims Yanukovych engineered the case to silence
the opposition before parliamentary elections next year.
Yanukovych has denied any involvement in the trial.  The conviction “is a sad incident which hampers Ukraine’s
European integration,” Yanukovych said on Oct. 11. “It
triggers concerns in the EU and we do understand why. It wasn’t
the final ruling.” The appellate court’s “decision will be
very important.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ; 