-- 
Hyundai Adds Cheapest Car to India Lineup in Bid to Loosen Suzuki’s Grip

-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 
2011-10-13T11:58:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/hyundai-adds-cheapest-car-to-india-lineup.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , poised to earn
the most profit among Asian carmakers this year, will step up
its campaign to weaken Suzuki Motor Corp.’s loosening grip on
 India ’s automobile market with a new hatchback.  The Seoul-based company today introduced the Eon, its
cheapest model in India so far, with a price starting from
269,999 rupees ($5,496).  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , which sells
the nation’s best-selling Alto car starting from 235,413 rupees,
unveiled a version of the model with features including leather
seats and an upgraded audio system today.  Hyundai, led by Chairman Chung Mong-Koo, has gained market
share worldwide from Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. as
Japanese carmakers reel from a strong yen and disruptions
stemming from the record earthquake that devastated the country
in March. The move raises the pressure on Maruti Suzuki, which
has seen its share of  Asia ’s third-largest car market drop amid
mounting competition and a labor strike that’s hobbled output.  “The Eon is going to be the biggest headache for Maruti,”
said  Deepesh Rathore , the New Delhi-based India head of IHS
Automotive. “It is unfortunate timing for Maruti as they’re
struggling with the labor issue. The Eon is going to add to
those problems.”  Maruti declined 2.5 percent to 1,058.25 rupees, the lowest
since July 2009, at the close in Mumbai trading. Hyundai gained
2.2 percent to 212,000 won, the highest since Aug. 3, in  Seoul .  Hyundai expects to sell 140,000 to 150,000 Eon cars a year,
Arvind Saxena, Hyundai’s India director for sales and marketing,
said at a press conference in New Delhi today.  Small Cars  Compacts and mini-cars accounted for more than 75 percent
of total passenger-car sales in the nation in the year ended
March 31, according to data released by the  Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers . Maruti had 43 percent of the total
Indian passenger-car market in the six months ended September,
compared with 20 percent for Hyundai, the data show.  “I will refrain from commenting on the Eon until we see
the car,” Mayank Pareek, head of sales at Maruti, said by phone
yesterday. “We’ve always been saying that India will be a small
car market. Now everybody is getting into small cars.”  The industry group lowered its growth forecast to as low as
2 percent for the year ending March 31. In July, the group said
it expected sales to rise 10 percent to 12 percent.  Deliveries are forecast to grow at the slowest pace in
three years after the  Reserve Bank  of India raised  interest
rates  12 times since mid-March 2010 to rein in inflation,
driving down demand for cars in a country where about 80 percent
of purchases are funded by loans.  ‘Cheaper, Fuel Efficient’  “With rising interest rates and fuel prices, people will
opt for cheaper and more fuel efficient cars,” Saxena said.
“The Eon should be the best-selling model in the near future.”  The Korean automaker’s India passenger-car sales rose 5
percent to 180,616 in the first six months of the fiscal year,
bucking a 1.4 percent industrywide sales decline, according to
data from the industry group.  The Indian unit of Suzuki Motor Corp. stopped production at
its factory in Manesar, near  New Delhi , on Oct. 7, the third
time since June, when the workers went on strike for 11 days to
demand recognition of an employees’ union and better working
conditions.  The disruptions have taken a toll on deliveries, which fell
12 percent to 390,878 cars in the April to September period,
according to the industry group.  The introduction of the Eon “will increase the competition
in the segment,” said Yaresh Kothari, an analyst with Angel
Broking Ltd. in Mumbai who has an “accumulate” rating on
Maruti. “Hyundai still doesn’t have the kind of reach Maruti
has, but it will be tough for Maruti.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  