-- 2013 Is the Year to Go to Work, Not Go on Disability
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-12-27T00:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/2013-is-the-year-to-go-to-work-not-go-on-disability.html
The  National Bureau of Economic
Research  declared that the U.S. recession ended in  June 2009 ,
yet 2012 didn’t look like much of a resurgence.  To me, the number that sums up the year’s doldrums is the
1.27 million increase in the number of disabled Americans
without jobs from November 2011 to  November 2012 . This statistic
reflects not only the sluggish recovery but also a drifting
nation, badly in need of tough medicine.  There are now  8.8 million workers  receiving disability
payments from Social Security. I find this number haunting.  The disabled are part of the far larger number of Americans
who have left the  labor force  altogether since the recession,
and who don’t seem to be coming back. About 88.9 million people
in the U.S. are now out of the  labor force , 2.4 million more
than a year ago and 11.4 million more than in 2006. Thirty years
ago, there was a 40-to-1 ratio between the total labor force and
those workers  receiving   Social Security  disability payments.
Today that ratio is less than 18-to-1.  In November 1982, unemployment hit its postwar high of 10.8
percent, far higher than the current rate of 7.7 percent. But
the total share of workers who are either unemployed or
receiving disability payments from the government totals 12.6
percent today.  Puzzling Rise  The steady rise in disability claims presents something of
a puzzle. Medicine has improved substantially. Far fewer of us
labor in dangerous industrial jobs like the ones that originally
motivated disability insurance. The rate of deaths due to
injuries has  plummeted . Behavior that can cause disability, such
as alcohol use and smoking, has  declined  substantially. American
age-adjusted  mortality  rates are far lower than in the past.  The aging of the baby-boom generation is often cited as one
explanation for the rise in disability insurance rolls. Yet the
economists Mark Duggan and Scott Imberman estimate that “this
factor can explain just 15.5 percent of the growth in the
likelihood that a nonelderly adult male receives DI benefits.”  The two primary alternative hypotheses for the rise are
that either work has become less attractive or that disability
insurance has become more attractive and available. The
disability-claims approval process and the wider society itself
have become more accepting of people receiving the benefits even
if they have no visible ailment.  Duggan and Imberman argue that changes in the award
formulas for recipients have made disability substantially more
generous for poorer workers. For example, a male worker who is
30 to 39 and in the bottom 25th percentile of earnings
distribution could expect disability insurance to pay 41 percent
of his previous earnings in 1984 and 49 percent of his previous
earnings in 2002.  An  older study  examined a Canadian experiment and found
that as disability became more generous, the overall labor
supply declined. Duggan and Imberman say changes in availability
can plausibly explain about one-quarter of the increase in the
insurance rolls from 1984 to 2002.  The economists say the most important cause of the
increasing number of recipients is the loosening of eligibility
criteria. In 1984, Congress “shifted the criteria for  DI
eligibility  from a list of specific impairments to a more
general consideration of a person’s medical condition and
ability to work.” As a result, the typical disability recipient
today is far less likely to have an easily verifiable ailment.  Seventy percent of workers receiving disability assistance
fall into three large diagnostic groups: mental disorders (about
32 percent), musculoskeletal system and connective tissue (29
percent), and nervous system and sense organs (about 9 percent).
The growth in these conditions explains more than 80 percent of
the rise in disability payments since 1996. These medical gray
areas can involve a judgment call.  Work Option  I believe that recipients of the aid are typically in pain,
but many have a choice between suffering at work and going on
disability. In boom times, the work option may seem more
attractive, but as labor options contract, a steady check from
the federal government can seem the better choice. The recession
surely explains much of the 24 percent increase in the number of
people receiving Social Security disability insurance since
2007.  The big fear is that those who went on disability during a
downturn stay out of work forever, even as the economy recovers.
The combination of a generous welfare system and a sharp
recession is what led to long-term unemployment in Western
Europe starting in the early 1970s.  Ten years ago,  Alberto Alesina , Bruce Sacerdote and I wrote
a paper trying to understand why Americans  worked so much harder 
than Europeans. Those differences are starting to look less
stark.  The political response to the low labor-force participation
is to offer policies aimed at  job creation . The right favors tax
cuts. The left favors subsidized help through building roads and
other infrastructure, and favoring particular sectors, such as
“clean energy.”  I’m skeptical that either approach can succeed, especially
in helping the lower-skilled. Most sensible government
investments require well-trained employees, such as engineers,
not high school dropouts. Even if tax cuts help private-sector
activity, there is little guarantee that businesses will start
hiring from the bottom of the labor market.  We can do better by replacing the archaic system we have
now with ones that offer better incentives to work. We have too
many distinct programs ( unemployment insurance ,  food stamps ,
housing vouchers) that penalize earnings, collectively creating
a huge implicit tax that discourages work among the poor.  Duggan and  David Autor , a  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  economist, have  proposed reforming  disability
insurance in ways that encourage companies to keep employing
disabled workers and impose higher costs on those that produce
more disabled workers.  Skills Depreciate  Ultimately, the best recipe for fighting poverty is
investment in human capital. This starts with improving our
education system, an undertaking that should include experiments
with digital learning, incentives for attracting good teachers
and retooling community colleges so they provide marketable
skills to less-advantaged Americans.  Human capital is also acquired at work, and that’s why
unemployment is so dangerous. When workers leave the workforce,
their skills depreciate and they end up locked out of
prosperity.  As we reform the  tax code , we must focus on providing
stronger incentives to work, through the  earned-income tax
credit  and reductions in the  payroll tax  for poorer Americans.
The future of America depends on preventing a temporary economic
crisis from becoming a permanent labor market catastrophe.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 