-- Wall Street Beaten in Southeast Asia Opens Door for Maybank
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-12-28T02:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/malaysian-banks-challenge-western-rivals-on-southeast-asia-boom.html
In a year when many of its overseas
 investment-banking  rivals are cutting jobs in response to
dwindling profits,  Malaysia ’s largest lender is grappling with
the opposite problem.  “Our guys are working flat out,” said Tengku Zafrul
Tengku Abdul Aziz, chief executive officer of  Malayan Banking
Bhd. (MAY) ’s investment bank, in an interview in Singapore. “To grow
further, we need to recruit. For the number of deals we’re
doing, the kind of expansion plans we have, we need to have
people.”  Maybank, as the bank is known, and local competitor  CIMB
Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  are riding a surge in mergers and stock
sales in Southeast  Asia , a region spanning the  Philippines  to
 Thailand . Adding headcount and acquiring competitors, their
ambition is to grow into regional investment-banking powerhouses
to compete in Asia with the likes of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  History shows it won’t be easy.  “The landscape is littered with regional banks that have
tried to get into investment banking and ultimately struggled,”
said Christian Brun, a Hong Kong-based partner at executive
search firm Wellesley Partners who specializes in recruiting
investment bankers. “The ones who are building their businesses
today are going to have to do it in a much more considered and
thoughtful way.”  In parlaying home-market dominance into regional
aspirations, Maybank and CIMB are echoing a strategy attempted
by Japan’s Daiwa Securities Group Inc.,  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  of
 Australia , and South Korea’s Samsung Securities Co. in past
years. Yet those firms have retrenched in the face of a global
slowdown in mergers, share sales and trading.  Taking Aim  Adding to the challenge, some global rivals are taking aim
at Maybank and CIMB’s home region.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  has doubled
its number of investment bankers focused on Southeast Asia in
the last three years. HSBC Holdings Plc tripled headcount at its
investment banking unit in the region over the same period and
plans to expand the division’s workforce by another 15 percent
next year, according to Chang Tou Chen, head of global banking
for Southeast Asia.  The region’s buoyant investment banking industry,
underpinned by rising consumer demand and easy credit, contrasts
with a depressed global dealmaking market. The value of mergers
involving companies in Southeast Asia has swelled to $136.5
billion this year, close to the record $137.1 billion reached in
2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Sales of domestic bonds
jumped 33 percent to a record $80 billion from the previous high
of $60 billion set last year.  Beating U.K.  Malaysia is poised to end this year as the world’s fifth-
largest market for initial public offerings, up from 14th in
2011, beating Canada and the U.K. with $6.8 billion of deals as
the benchmark  stock index  rallied to a record in November. It
trails  Hong Kong  fundraising by 14 percent.  “ Capital markets  are open and receptive to the Southeast
Asia story,” said Farhan Faruqui, Citigroup’s head of corporate
and investment banking for the Asia-Pacific region. “You will
see more headlines made from Southeast Asia in the coming months
and years.”  Maybank plans to boost headcount at its investment banking
and brokerage business by 10 percent a year until 2015,
according to Tengku Zafrul. The division currently employs some
3,000 people.  The lender bought Singapore’s Kim Eng Holdings Ltd. in
April last year for S$1.79 billion ($1.5 billion), giving it
stock-broking and investment banking operations in Singapore,
Thailand, Indonesia, the Philippines and Vietnam. It plans to
expand by recruiting institutional sales, equity and advisory
bankers who cover industries such as utilities, oil and gas.  Two Stages  The unit, called Maybank Kim Eng, will focus on expanding
in Southeast Asia through 2015; after that, Maybank plans to
continue growing in the Asia-Pacific region and the Middle East,
Tengku Zafrul said.  CIMB, which was Malaysia’s top-ranked stock underwriter
over the past four years, in April acquired most of Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc’s securities operations in Asia. CIMB said
in June that the $142 million purchase would enable it to
compete with banks like  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  across Asia.  “We want to be an Asia-Pacific investment bank,” said
Charon Wardini Mokhzani, CEO of CIMB Investment Bank Bhd., which
added more than 300 people through the RBS deal. “The plan is
to complete and bed down this acquisition, and grow next year
based on the enlarged platform we now have.”  Pretax profit at Maybank Kim Eng fell 6 percent in the
latest fiscal year to 135.5 million ringgit ($44 million). In
the same period, CIMB Investment Bank’s pretax profit jumped 75
percent to 140 million ringgit.  Prima Donnas  DBS Group Holdings Ltd., Southeast Asia’s largest lender,
is taking a more cautious approach to investment banking. CEO
Piyush Gupta said in November that he plans to build the
Singapore-based company’s fixed-income business while avoiding
any large-scale expansion in equity underwriting or mergers
advisory.  “Any M&A activity and advisory activity in the region we
can do because we know the clients, but it’s not a huge part of
our business,” he said on Nov. 1. “Fixed income I like because
it matches with what we do well and we don’t need a lot of prima
donna bankers to try and do that.”  Thai Billionaires  Among this year’s most high-profile Asian deals, at least
two feature Southeast Asian targets or buyers: The battle for
Singapore’s  Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN)  between Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi and a group led by Overseas Union Enterprise
Ltd., backed by Indonesia’s Lippo Group; and the $9.4 billion
purchase of a stake in China’s second-largest insurer by another
Thai billionaire, Dhanin Chearavanont.  The regional banks are confronting an advisory market in
Asia now dominated by U.S. and European institutions. Led by New
York-based Goldman Sachs, they occupy the top seven spots among
mergers advisers for companies in the Asia-Pacific region this
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In equity and equity-
linked products, eight of the top 10 underwriters are Western
banks, the data show.  Maybank and CIMB are having mixed success in Southeast
Asian investment banking this year as measured by volume of
business. Maybank jumped in sales of shares and convertible
bonds to sixth this year from No. 10 in 2011, while CIMB
advanced to third from fourth. Both banks gave ground to rivals
in mergers advisory in the region during 2012, the data show.
They still lead their Western competitors in underwriting
domestic bond sales there.  Expansion Reversed  Some Asian competitors have reversed investment-banking
expansions in the past year. Japan’s Daiwa, which in 2010 agreed
to pay about $1 billion for KBC Groep NV’s convertible bond and
Asia equity derivatives units, has cut more than 500 positions
in Asia and Europe since last October -- including a September
announcement that it would eliminate as many as 50 derivatives
jobs in Hong Kong.  Samsung Securities, which in 2009 vowed to bolster
investment banking operations in the region by hiring and
opening offices, said in February it would more than halve staff
at its 100-person Hong Kong unit. Macquarie, Australia’s largest
investment bank, fired about 10 percent of its investment
banking workforce in Asia that month too, according to people
with knowledge of the matter, and CEO  Nicholas Moore  said in
October the market remains “subdued.”  Co-Branding Business  Unlike some competitors, CIMB and Maybank have commercial-
banking operations that they can parlay into advisory roles for
clients.  Since buying Kim Eng, Maybank has been pushing commercial
bankers to work more closely with dealmakers, Tengku Zafrul
said. While pitching to manage the IPO of AirAsia X Sdn., the
lender proposed establishing a co-branded  credit card  with the
Malaysian carrier, he said.  Maybank was hired to arrange the share sale, together with
CIMB and Credit Suisse Group AG, according to AirAsia X’s draft
listing prospectus filed in November.  “It’s exactly these banks who are very serious
competitors,” Markus Boehme, a partner at Munich-based
consultant  Roland Berger , said of Maybank and CIMB. “They have
the strong footprint on the ground and more importantly, they
have the funding base that many global players lack.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  