-- Hanlong Seeks Chinese State Partners to Develop Sundance Assets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-27T07:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/hanlong-seeks-chinese-state-partners-to-develop-sundance-assets.html
Sichuan Hanlong Group, an investor
in highways and power projects, is in talks with Chinese state-
owned companies to develop an iron ore project in  Africa  owned
by  Australia ’s  Sundance Resources Ltd. (SDL)   Hanlong, which plans to buy the stake it doesn’t own in
Sundance for A$1.14 billion ($1.18 billion), is considering
partnerships with state-owned enterprises on a request from
government agencies, it said today in an e-mailed statement.
Hanlong plans to complete the purchase of Sundance by March 1,
it said in the statement.  China  is urging its companies to buy assets overseas and
secure energy and commodity resources to meet domestic demand. A
partnership with a state-owned company may help Hanlong secure
financing, said Xu Zhongbo, chief executive officer at
researcher Beijing Metal Consulting Ltd.  “Partnering with state enterprises will help make it
easier to get the deal done,” he said. “Partnerships with
several large companies would help reduce risks that the banks
may apprehend.”  Hanlong, which owns 14.15 percent of Sundance at present,
delayed the acquisition after  China Development Bank  failed to
agree on terms for a loan by a Dec. 13 deadline and asked for
time to review a mining convention by the government of Cameroon
and a yet-to-be-issued mining permit from the Republic of Congo,
countries where Sundance owns assets.  Sundance gained 1.6 percent to 32 Australian cents at the
close in Sydney.  Paul Armstrong , an external spokesman for
Sundance, couldn’t be reached by phone and didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment. Three calls to China
Development Bank’s press office weren’t answered.  Mbalam Project  Louis-Paul Motaze, general secretary in the Cameroon prime
minister’s office, will talk to the Chinese government and banks
to accelerate the Sundance acquisition during a visit to China,
Hanlong said in the statement, without specifying when the visit
will take place.  Sundance owns the Mbalam iron-ore project, which straddles
Cameroon and Congo and has a planned capacity of 35 million
metric tons of the steelmaking raw material annually. The
Australian company also plans to build a 510-kilometer (317-
mile) railway line linking the Mbarga mine in Cameroon and the
Nabeba mine in Congo to a deep-water export terminal on the
coast of Cameroon, according to its website.  Hanlong has discussed construction of the railway link and
port, mine development and offtake sales contracts with Chinese
state-owned companies, it said in the statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  