-- Antarctic Researchers Cancel Search for Life 2 Miles Down
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-12-27T14:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/antarctic-researchers-cancel-search-for-life-2-miles-down.html
U.K. researchers hunting for life in
a lake under 3 kilometers (2 miles) of Antarctic ice called off
their mission after drilling delays led to a fuel shortage.  The team decided to halt work on Dec. 25 after failing to
link two boreholes 300 meters beneath the ice, according to the
British Antarctic Survey, part of the drilling group.  The researchers will have to wait at least another year to
try reaching Lake Ellsworth, which has been isolated under the
West Antarctic ice sheet for hundreds of thousands of years.
They’d hoped to test water samples for microbial life and search
the lake bed for clues into the past climate of Antarctica.  “This is, of course, hugely frustrating for us, but we
have learned a lot this year,” principal investigator Martin
Siegert said today in an e-mailed statement. “I remain
confident that we will unlock the secrets of Lake Ellsworth in
coming seasons.”  The researchers had struggled with a leaking cavity,
designed to link the main borehole with a secondary hole used to
recirculate drilling water back to the surface. They used so
much fuel melting snow to fill the cavern that they didn’t have
enough to complete the project, which relied on a pressurized
hot-water drill.  Siegert, a professor of geosciences at the  University of
Edinburgh , first thought of searching for life in Antarctica’s
underground lakes 16 years ago. Ellsworth was chosen as a target
for the 8 million-pound ($13 million) project eight years later.  It’s one of at least 387 known sub-glacial Antarctic lakes,
which formed deep below the surface as the pressure exerted by
thousands of meters of ice drove down the freezing point of
water.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  