-- Markey Seeking Massachusetts U.S. Senate Seat Held by Kerry
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-12-27T21:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/markey-seeking-massachusetts-u-s-senate-seat-now-held-by-kerry.html
U.S. Representative  Edward Markey , a
Democrat, said he will seek the Senate seat from his home state
of Massachusetts that would open if current occupant  John Kerry 
is confirmed as secretary of state.  “This fight is too important,” Markey said today in an e-
mail statement to supporters. “There is so much at stake.”  Markey, 66, has served in the House since winning a special
election in 1976. He passed up a run for the Senate in 2010 to
succeed the late  Edward Kennedy , a Democrat, in a special
election won by Republican Scott Brown.  A leading House voice on environmental and
telecommunications issues, Markey finished his 2012 re-election
campaign, which he won with 76 percent of the vote, with $3.1
million in the bank, all of which he could transfer to a Senate
campaign.  Brown’s election in January 2010 over Democratic Attorney
General  Martha Coakley  at the time deprived Democrats of the
60th Senate vote they needed to overcome Republican filibusters.
It forced President  Barack Obama  and Democratic leaders to use a
procedural move known as reconciliation to enact a health-care
overhaul that expanded coverage to millions of uninsured
Americans.  Obama on Dec. 21 nominated Kerry, the unsuccessful 2004
Democratic presidential nominee, to succeed  Hillary Clinton  as
secretary of state. Upon Senate confirmation of Kerry,
Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick will appoint an interim
successor until the special election is held.  Third Race  Brown, who lost his bid for a full six-year term to
Democrat  Elizabeth Warren  last month, is a possible Republican
nominee for Kerry’s seat. It would be his third statewide Senate
race in four years.  Other potential Democratic candidates include U.S.
Representatives Michael Capuano and Stephen Lynch. Kennedy’s
son, Edward Jr., said Dec. 24 that he wouldn’t run.  State law calls for a special election to be held between
145 to 160 days following the Senate vacancy. The election would
be preceded by party primaries.  Patrick has said his intent would be to appoint someone to
initially fill the seat who wouldn’t run in the special
election. That was the pattern he followed in choosing Democrat
Paul G. Kirk as the interim senator after Kennedy died.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  