-- Marvell, Adidas, Mumford & Sons: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-12-27T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/marvell-adidas-mumford-sons-intellectual-property.html
A U.S. jury said  Marvell Technology
Group Ltd. (MRVL)  should pay $1.17 billion in damages that may be
tripled for infringing patents for integrated-circuit technology
held by  Carnegie Mellon University .  Marvell, which makes chips for computers and mobile phones,
is based in Hamilton, Bermuda.  The jury found Marvell’s infringement willful, providing a
basis for U.S. District Judge Nora Barry Fischer to increase the
award by as much as three times, according to a statement by K&L
Gates LLP, the  law firm  representing the university.  Investors are concerned about the potential for triple
damages, Kevin Stadtler, president of Stadtler Capital
Management, which holds a short position on Marvell and stands
to benefit if the stock drops, said in an e-mail. The penalties
may force Marvell to raise capital by issuing shares, said
Stadtler, whose company is based in  Fort Worth , Texas.  Daniel Yoo, a spokesman for Marvell, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail and telephone call seeking comment.  Carnegie Mellon  sued Marvell in March 2009 over use of the
two patents, issued in 2001 and 2002, that cover ways to detect
data stored on a computer’s hard-disk drive by filtering out
noise or unwanted electrical signals. The school said in its
complaint that at least nine types of Marvell’s circuits use its
inventions.  In dispute were patents 6,201,839 and 6,438,180.  Marvell had revenue of $2.95 billion for the year ended
Jan. 31.  The case is  Carnegie Mellon  University v. Marvell
Technology Group Ltd., 2:09-cv-00290-NBF, U.S. District Court
for the Western District of Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  X5 Retail Group Infringement Fine Reduced in Adidas Case  Adidas AG (ADS) ’s infringement ruling barring Russia’s  X5 Retail
Group NV (FIVE) ’s Perekryostok stores from using the athletic shoe
company’s three-stripe trademark was upheld, although the fine
the Germany company sought was reduced,  according to  the Russian
Legal Information Agency.  Adidas had filed the appeal after it was awarded 70,000
rubles ($2,210) in compensation for the infringement, much less
than the 1.1 million rubles the athletic shoe company had
sought, according to the agency.  Russia’s Ninth Commercial Court of Appeals said that while
Adidas’s rights were infringed, it found that only one of the 11
shops that had been targeted by the suit had actually sold the
shoes, the agency reported.  Perekryostok is a major supermarket chain in Russia,
according to the agency.  China Looking at Changes in Trademark Registration, Enforcement  China is considering changes to its trademark law that
would protect famous international brands, even if their owners
hadn’t registered them in China,  according to  EastDay.com
English-language Chinese news.  Brand owners could bar others from registering the
trademark, and the ceiling could be raised on fines for
trademark violations from the present level of 500,000 Chinese
 yuan  ($80,200) to 1 million yuan, EastDay.com reported.  Fines were increased because victims of trademark
infringement have had to spend “a great deal of money”
defending their marks in China, according to EastDay.com.  The change comes following recent high-profile trademark
disputes involving basketball player  Michael Jordan ,  Hermes
International (RMS) , and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , according to EastDay.com.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Mumford & Sons Says Don’t Lend the Group’s Album to Anyone  Mumford & Sons , a U.K.-based folk-rock music group, has
some unusual language in the copyright notice on the packaging
for its “Babel” album, Wired  reported .  The notice prohibits unauthorized “lending” of the CD,
according to Wired.  Placing such a notice is “outrageous” and “no way to
build a fan base, Corynne McSherry of San Francisco’s Electronic
Frontier Foundation digital-rights group told Wired.  A spokesman for the band’s label Glassnote Records sent
Wired an e-mail saying its lawyers “instructed us to do this.”  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Kilpatrick Firm Expands IP Practice, Hires Jonathan Harris  Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP hired Jonathan Harris
for its patent litigation team, the Atlanta-based firm said in a
 statement .  Harris  has represented clients in disputes involving
software and chemical technologies. Before he was a lawyer he
was a civil engineer.  He served as a judicial clerk for Judge Karen K. Caldwell
of U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of  Kentucky .  Harris has an undergraduate degree in physics and a
master’s degree in civil engineering from Virginia Polytechnic
Institute and State University and a law degree from the
 University of Kentucky .  Myers Bigel Brings Hee Jin Kwak and Patrick Hansen Into Firm  Myers Bigel Sibley & Sajovec PA hired two new patent
practitioners, the Raleigh, North Carolina-based firm said in an
e-mailed statement.  The two new hires are Hee Jin Kwak and Patrick Hansen.  Kwak  has previously worked as a research engineer and
patent engineer in the semiconductor division of  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  She represents clients in the semiconductor-
device and chemical industries.  She has an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering
from Kyungpook National University and a master’s degree in
science and a doctorate in chemical engineering from Pohang
University of Science and Technology. She has a law degree from
the University of  New Hampshire .  Hansen  was previously a verification engineer for
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , and as a software
engineer for  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ)  He also developed and
administered an information-management system for Duke
University’s Center for Human Genetics and as a software analyst
for a computer games company.  He has represented clients in the electrical, Internet and
telecommunications industries.  Hansen has an undergraduate degree in electrical
engineering from  North Carolina State University  and a law
degree from  Duke University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 