-- Aussie Declines on Concern U.S. Budget Talks Stall; Kiwi Gains
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-12-27T22:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/aussie-declines-on-concern-u-s-budget-talks-stall-kiwi-gains.html
Australia ’s dollar fell against most
of its 16 major counterparts as U.S. lawmakers prepared to
resume talks on how to avoid spending cuts and tax increases
that could tip the world’s biggest economy into recession.  The Aussie was little changed against the greenback and New
Zealand’s dollar snapped eight days of losses after Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said he will take “extraordinary
measures” to postpone a U.S. default into early 2013 while
President  Barack Obama  and Congress work out a deficit-reduction
deal. Data on Dec. 31 may signal a pickup in China’s economy.  “They’re really responding to broader market sentiment,
specifically you’re looking at these fiscal-cliff headlines,”
Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist for Gain Capital Group
LLC in New York, said in a telephone interview. “That’s really
the driver here for most of the currencies.”  The Australian dollar was little changed at $1.0377 in New
York. The Aussie bought 89.32 yen from 88.87 yesterday.  New Zealand’s dollar gained 0.1 percent to 82.09 U.S.
cents. It rose 0.6 percent to 70.66 yen.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said a resolution to the
budget dispute before Jan. 1 appears unlikely because
Republicans won’t cooperate, pushing the U.S. closer to more
than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts
set to begin in January.  The  purchasing manager’s index  of Chinese manufacturing by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics may rise to 50.9 in
December from 50.5 the previous month, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
data due on Dec. 31. A separate, government-backed  index  of
nonmanufacturing due on Jan. 1 will show an increase to 51 this
month from 50.6 in November, economists estimate.  China  is Australia’s biggest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-largest export market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  