-- Aussie Falls Against Major Peers Before U.S. Cliff Talks Resume
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-12-27T05:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/aussie-set-for-month-drop-before-u-s-cliff-talks-resume.html
Australia’s dollar fell against all
of its 16 major counterparts as U.S. lawmakers prepared to
resume talks on how to avoid spending cuts and tax increases
that could send the world’s biggest economy into recession.  The so-called Aussie headed for the biggest monthly drop
since August versus the greenback and New Zealand’s dollar held
an eight-day retreat after Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner  said he will take “extraordinary measures” to
postpone a U.S. default into early 2013 while President  Barack Obama  and Congress work out a deficit-reduction deal. Declines
in the South Pacific nations’ currencies were limited before
data that may signal a pickup in  China’s economy .  “Uncertainty and concerns about the fiscal cliff are
starting to weigh on risk markets,” said Peter Dragicevich, a
currency economist in Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA) 
“The Aussie and the kiwi are naturally susceptible to declines
in global equity markets, particularly the U.S. markets.”  The Australian dollar slid 0.3 percent to $1.0349 as of
4:07 p.m. in Sydney, headed for a 0.8 percent decline this
month. The Aussie bought 88.81 yen from 88.87 yesterday.  New Zealand’s dollar was unchanged at 81.98 U.S. cents from
yesterday, when it touched 81.56, the lowest since Nov. 23. The
currency fell 3.1 percent in the eight sessions through
yesterday. It rose 0.3 percent to 70.35 yen.  Yields on 10-year Australian  government bonds  advanced one
basis point to 3.35 percent.  China PMI  The  purchasing manager’s index  of Chinese manufacturing by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics will probably rise to
50.9 in December from 50.5 the previous month, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before
the data due on Dec. 31. A separate, government-backed  index  of
manufacturing due on Jan. 1 will show an increase to 51 this
month from 50.6 in November, economists estimate.  China  is Australia’s biggest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-largest export market.  “The Chinese data have bottomed and started to show
improvement,” said Commonwealth Bank’s Dragicevich. “That
should provide some support for the Aussie and kiwi currencies,
but a lot will depend on what the U.S. politicians do.”  Australia’s dollar has lost 1.3 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The  New Zealand dollar  gained
3.1 percent over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Amina Mobley in Tokyo at 
 amobley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  