-- Australian Central Bank Lags Behind as Women Avoid Economics
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-12-28T01:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/australia-s-central-bank-falls-behind-as-women-avoid-economics.html
When  Patricia Apps ’s teenager was
looking for career advice about becoming an economist, the
professor of public economics at Sydney University advised her
daughter to study law instead.  “It’s a boys’ culture,” Apps said. “If you look at
economics from the prospective student’s point of view, you see
women don’t succeed.”  The gender gap in Australian economics is reflected at
commercial lenders, the Treasury and at the  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia , where Assistant Governor Michele Bullock is the sole
woman among its top eight officials, and just three in 10
managers are female. That lags behind the representation from
 Asia  to the U.S.: Half of the Thai central bank’s 58 executives
and 44 percent of Federal Reserve board officials and managers
are women, data from the institutions show.  Failure to fully use the “hidden resource” of women costs
Australia’s A$1.4 trillion ($1.5 trillion) economy as much as 13
percent in lost annual production, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
analysts estimate. The glass ceiling for economists belies a
nation where men are outperformed in most fields of higher
education and where the prime minister, governor-general and
mayor of the biggest city are female.  “The apparent lack of women in economics in Australia is
not actually saying something about women, it’s saying something
about economics in Australia,” said  Luci Ellis , head of
financial stability at the RBA, in a discussion on female
representation with Bullock and Alexandra Heath at the bank.
“When we travel in  Southeast Asia , there’s a lot more women in
senior roles in central banks.”  Treasury’s Imbalance  At the Treasury, which rivals the RBA as the nation’s
premier economic institution, women account for less than a
quarter of senior executives.  “For organizations like the Reserve Bank, like the federal
Treasury, optimum performance comes from diverse teams, and
that’s about both men and women,” Sex Discrimination
Commissioner Elizabeth Broderick said in an interview. “We
clearly haven’t got that at the minute.”  At three of the four biggest banks, Australia &  New Zealand 
Banking Group Ltd.,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , only a few economists are female. At the
fourth,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , there are none, even as Chief
Executive Officer Gail Patricia Kelly helps lead a campaign for
more women on government boards.  Westpac’s Effort  Ganesh Chandrasekar, general manager of human resources at
Westpac, said the lender in November reached a goal of 40
percent of all senior leadership roles held by women, ahead of
its 2014 target. He said the chief economist at St. George Bank
Ltd., a subsidiary of Westpac, is a woman.  The higher proportion of women in the Thai central bank,
where the previous governor, Tarisa Watanagase, is female, is
reflected across much of Southeast Asia. Zeti Akhtar Aziz runs
 Bank Negara Malaysia , while  Indonesia ’s former Finance Minister
 Sri Mulyani Indrawati , who taught economics at universities in
Indonesia and the U.S., is now a managing director of the  World
Bank .  The RBA says its hiring of women partly reflects the
unequal proportion of economics graduates with honors degrees or
higher. That ratio is further diminished as commercial banks
poach the RBA’s female recruits to narrow their own gender
imbalances, according to Bullock, assistant governor responsible
for the central bank’s note division.  “I’ve observed over the years many, many very good women
in this institution,” she said. “But boy they’re highly sought
after out there.”  Hiring Competition  Competition for the small pool of female economists to try
to even up employment ratios is prevalent throughout the
industry, said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research
for TD Securities Inc. “In the last 12 months I’ve been
approached for a job where the unofficial job specification is
‘we need to be seen to be hiring a woman,’” she said.  That demand isn’t reflected in the nation’s universities,
where students completing post-graduate economics degrees in
Australia were split 60:40 in favor of males in 2011, while
undergraduates stood at 59:41, government data show.  In politics, Australia ranks ahead of the U.K. and U.S.
when it comes to the representation of women in parliament,
according to  Inter-Parliamentary Union’s data  on 190 countries.
Australia’s 25 percent of women in the lower house and 38
percent in the senate puts it 41st internationally, compared
with 22 percent in the U.K. parliament for 48th place and the
U.S.’s 17 percent, ranking it 69th.  Childcare Barriers  Ellis, Bullock and Heath at the RBA say the caliber of
women joining the central bank is high, but, as well as the loss
of staff to commercial banks, other impediments remain for
female staff trying to reach the upper echelons.  “In Australia, the cost of childcare is ridiculous,”
Beacher said. “If we had a system like in  Singapore , whereby
you could hire full-time help at an affordable cost I think
you’d see the participation rate rise by 10 percentage points.”  Singapore imports more than 200,000 foreign domestic
workers from countries such as the  Philippines  and Indonesia --
about one for every five households. They work as live-in
nannies and servants, typically earning about $400 a month,
allowing many parents to work full time.  Australia ranked 44th for the proportion of working women,
behind the U.S. and New Zealand, and ahead of the U.K.,
according to the  World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap report .  ‘Career Accelerant’  Commissioner Broderick said better employers use child
leave to attract higher-caliber female staff “by ensuring that
those women who come back from maternity leave are promoted.
Smart organizations are using maternity leave as a career
accelerant, rather than a career backward step.”  The debate on the role of women in Australia was reignited
in October when Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  lambasted
opposition leader  Tony Abbott  for “misogyny and sexism” in a
15-minute speech to Parliament that was viewed more than 2
million times on YouTube. The nation fielded its first female
political candidate in 1897, decades before most Western nations
even granted universal suffrage. Governor-General Quentin Bryce,
who represents the head of state  Queen Elizabeth II , and Clover Moore, lord mayor of Sydney, are women.  At the Treasury, where the entrance hall is adorned with
photos of senior male executives, Secretary Martin Parkinson has
set a target of 35 percent female senior executives by 2016,
with a longer-term goal of 40 percent.  Aiming Low  “I don’t think 40 percent is particularly aspirational”
as more than half the population is female, said Catharine Lumby,
a feminist author and director of the Journalism and Media
Research Centre at Sydney’s University of New South Wales.  The three top women at the RBA said progress will take time.
In the U.S., 30 percent of respondents in a Bloomberg Global
Poll last month said Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen 
would be a good choice to succeed Chairman Ben S Bernanke when
his term expires in January 2014.  Asked how far Australia is from having a woman run its
central bank, Bullock replied in deadpan country style:
“probably a while.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  