-- Hawaii Governor Picks Schatz for Senate to Replace Inouye
-- B y   T r a v i s   Q u e z o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-12-27T19:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/hawaii-governor-picks-schatz-for-senate-to-replace-inouye.html
Brian Schatz, who had been serving
as  Hawaii ’s lieutenant governor, was sworn in today to take the
seat of the late U.S. Senator Daniel Inouye, a Democrat who died
last week of respiratory complications.  Schatz, 40, was selected for the post yesterday by Hawaii
Governor Neil Abercrombie, a fellow Democrat. Abercrombie said
his decision was “in the best interest of the party, the state
of Hawaii and the nation.”  Inouye, shortly before he died, asked the governor to
select U.S. Representative Colleen Hanabusa to succeed him. “No
one or nothing was preordained,” Abercrombie said at the news
briefing in Honolulu where he announced Schatz’s selection.  Schatz accompanied President  Barack Obama  aboard Air Force
One on an overnight flight to  Washington  and took the oath of
office, administered by Vice President Joe Biden, this
afternoon. Obama returned to the White House after spending
Christmas in Hawaii.  “I’m humbled and honored by this opportunity and
obligation to serve the people of Hawaii,” Schatz said at
yesterday’s news briefing.  He takes office in time to vote on any proposal to avert
more than $600 billion in spending cuts and tax increases slated
to start taking effect next month.  Schatz was elected lieutenant governor on Abercrombie’s
ticket in 2010. Previously, he served four terms as a state
representative, and he’s a former head of the state’s Democratic
Party. He attended Honolulu’s Punahou School, the president’s
alma mater, and was the Hawaii spokesman for Obama’s 2008 White
House campaign.  Decorated Veteran  Inouye, a Democrat, was the most senior U.S. senator. He
was a decorated World War II veteran who had represented Hawaii
in Congress since statehood in 1959. After first serving in the
House, he won his Senate seat in 1962. He was 88 when he died
Dec. 17 at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in
Bethesda,  Maryland .  Hanabusa, 61, was one of three finalists for the post
selected yesterday as candidates to replace Inouye by the state
Democratic Party’s central committee.  “Senator Inouye conveyed his final wish to Governor
Abercrombie,” Jennifer Sabas, Inouye’s staff chief, said
yesterday in a statement to the Associated Press. “While we are
very disappointed that it was not honored, it was the governor’s
decision to make.”  Special Election  A special election to fill the remainder of Inouye’s term,
which expires in January 2017, will be held in August 2014,
according to Scott Nago, a state elections office spokesman.  Obama was vacationing with his family in his native state
this week. His wife, first lady Michelle Obama, and their two
children remained in Hawaii. On Dec. 23, the president joined
senators and other political figures at a Honolulu memorial
service for Inouye.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat who
also attended the Honolulu service, said in a Dec. 22 statement
that he had urged Abercrombie to appoint Inouye’s successor
“with due haste.” That way, Reid said, “the people of Hawaii
are fully represented in the pivotal decisions the Senate will
be making before the end of the year.”  Congress must act by then to thwart the scheduled tax
increases and spending reductions. Talks between Obama and
leaders of the Republican-controlled House on averting the so-
called fiscal cliff have been at a standstill.  With Schatz, the Senate Democratic caucus will number 53,
to 47 for Republicans. In the new Congress that convenes on Jan.
3, Democrats will control the Senate 55 to 45.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  