-- Toyota Accord Lawyers Seek $200 Million Fee
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-12-27T13:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/mayer-brown-ropes-gray-herbalife-business-of-law.html
Toyota Motor Corp.,  Asia ’s biggest
automaker, will take a $1.1 billion charge to settle U.S.
consumer claims that the value of their vehicles diminished
because of recalls related to unintended acceleration.  Plaintiffs’ lawyers are asking as much as $200 million in
attorneys’ fees,  Steve Berman , a lead plaintiffs’ attorney,
said. The total will be paid out to 25 firms and about 85
attorneys, according to an  article  in the Wall Street Journal.  The settlement, pending approval from a judge in federal
court in Santa Ana,  California , will cover costs such as cash
payments to customers, Toyota said in a  statement  yesterday. The
deal is valued at $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion, a record in the
U.S. in terms of financial scale and number of vehicles,
according to Seattle-based law firm Hagens Berman, which
represented plaintiffs.  The one-time charge will be reflected in earnings for the
quarter ending Dec. 31, Toyota said. The writedown is separate
from the $2 billion in total costs related to the recalls that
Toyota had projected in 2010, said Keisuke Kirimoto, a Tokyo-
based spokesman. Toyota didn’t admit to any defects in its
vehicles or any wrongdoing in the settlement.  The cases were combined in a multidistrict litigation
before U.S. District Judge James V. Selna, who is also handling
the federal personal injury and death suits. The resolution asks
Selna to certify the lawsuit as a class action for settlement
purposes.  Lawyers for both sides are asking for immediate preliminary
approval, Berman said in an interview yesterday. The lawyers
will be seeking final approval in June, after which Toyota
owners will get paid, Berman said.  The case is In re  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Unintended
Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products Liability
Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court, Central District
of California (Santa Ana).  For more, click here.  Marvell Risks Triple Damages in Carnegie-Mellon Patent Verdict  A U.S. jury ordered  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to pay
$1.17 billion, a penalty that may be tripled, for infringing
patents on integrated-circuit technology held by  Carnegie Mellon
University .  Marvell, which makes chips for computers and mobile phones,
fell 85 cents, or 10 percent, to $7.40, in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading following the verdict yesterday in federal court in
Pittsburgh.  The jury found Marvell’s infringement willful, providing a
basis for U.S. District Judge Nora Barry Fischer to increase the
award by as much as three times, according to a statement by K&L
Gates LLP, the  law firm  representing the university.  Daniel Yoo, a spokesman for Hamilton, Bermuda-based
Marvell, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and telephone
call seeking comment.  Carnegie Mellon  sued over use of the two patents, issued in
2001 and 2002, that cover ways to detect data stored on a
computer’s hard-disk drive by filtering out noise or unwanted
electrical signals. The school in a March 6 complaint said at
least nine types of Marvell’s circuits use its inventions.  The case is  Carnegie Mellon  University v. Marvell
Technology Group Ltd., 09-cv-290, U.S. District Court for the
Western District of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  For more, click here.  Wells Fargo Wins Order Reversing Decision on Overdraft Fees  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  won its bid to throw out a judge’s order
that it pay California customers $203 million for manipulating
debit-card transactions to boost overdraft fees.  The decision, issued yesterday by the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
in San Francisco, reverses a lower-court order requiring Wells
Fargo to cease its practice of charging overdraft fees based on
its posting in high-to-low order customers’ debit-card
transactions. The bank’s practice is a “federally authorized
pricing decision,” the appeals court ruled.  The three-judge panel also returned the case to the
district court, finding that Wells Fargo is liable for fraud
violations of California’s unfair competition law. The lower
court was directed to determine what damages, if any, Wells
Fargo must pay.  Covington & Burling LLP partner Robert Long, a lawyer for
Wells Fargo, said at a hearing in May before the three-judge
panel in  San Francisco  that, the judgment should be reversed
because the lawsuit claims are “preempted by federal banking
law,” The claims also “fail as a matter of state law,” Long
said.  Wells Fargo’s practice of reordering transactions was
“engineered” for the “sole purpose of generating overdraft
fees,” Michael Sobol, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, told the
court in May.  Richard Heimann, a partner at Lieff Cabraser Heimann &
Bernstein LLP, who also represented customers, said in court
papers that Wells Fargo misled customers about the policy,
burying it in fine print and advertising that debit transactions
would “automatically” be deducted from accounts, which led
customers to assume that withdrawals would be posted in
chronological order.  Today’s decision “largely reaffirms Wells Fargo’s
position,” bank spokesman Ancel Martinez said in an e-mailed
statement. “We look forward to resolving the remaining
issues,” he said.  Sobol didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking
comment.  The case is Gutierrez v. Wells Fargo, 10-16959, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  For more, click here.  Moves  Former French Government Minister Joins Mayer Brown  Former French government minister Jeannette Bougrab has
joined Mayer Brown LLP as a partner in the banking and finance
practice in Paris, where she will lead the office’s public law
and compliance-related activities.  Bougrab was in the government of former French Prime
Minister François Fillon as State Secretary of the Ministry of
Youth and Community Life. A member of the State Council,
 France ’s highest administrative court, she also has served as a
director of the Arab World Institute.  Bougrab has also been an assistant professor in public law
at the University Pantheon-Sorbonne and the Institut d’ Etudes
Politiques de Paris and also served as a legal counsel at the
Constitutional Council.  Mayer Brown has 20 offices in the U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  Firm News  Herbalife Working With Law Firm in Ackman Dispute  Herbalife has hired law firm Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP
to assist the company with its William Ackman dispute, the Wall
Street Journal reports, citing people familiar with the matter.  On Dec. 20, in a blistering 210-minute presentation in  New
York , activist investor Ackman called the maker of nutritional
and weight-loss supplements a pyramid scheme and said he had
shorted the stock. Ackman’s comments riled the company’s chief
executive officer and ran into a wall of opposition from the
nine Wall Street analysts who cover the company.  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  sells vitamins, shake mixes and skin gels
through a marketing network of independent distributors in at
least 81 countries. Those independent contractors earn revenue
by selling products directly to customers and recruiting new
distributors, for which they earn a share of those sales and
incentives from the company.  A classic pyramid scheme attempts to make money solely by
recruiting new participants into the program, according to the
 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission . Ackman said Herbalife
has structured itself to hide that intent.  “Today’s presentation was a malicious attack on our
business model based largely on outdated, distorted and
inaccurate information,” the company said in an e-mailed
statement Dec. 21. “We operate at the highest ethical and
quality standards.”  Herbalife said in a statement it will hold a meeting with
analysts sometime during the week of Jan. 7 to address Ackman’s
claims.  Boies, Schiller’s client list includes Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the chairman and chief executive of CV Starr & Co.,
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)   Deals  Ropes & Gray Advises Altamont in Deal on Tacala and Boom Foods  Ropes & Gray LLP represented Altamont  Capital Partners  in
its acquisitions of Tacala LLC and Boom Foods LLC, in
partnership with management, the firm said in a statement. The
terms weren’t disclosed. Paul Hastings LLP and Burr & Forman LLP
advised Tacala.  Tacala manages 162 Taco Bell franchises in the Southeastern
U.S. and Boom Foods is a Sonic drive-in franchisee with 66
locations.  The Ropes & Gray team was led by partner  C. Todd Boes , and
included partners  Steven R. Rutkovsky , debt;  Amanda Holt , tax;
and  Jason Dunn , real estate.  Partner  Tom Kruger  led the Paul Hastings team, which also
included tax partner Andrew Short.  Jeff Baker  was the main Burr
& Forman partner on the deal.  Tim Morrison and Joey Pierson will continue as Tacala’s
president and chief financial officer, respectively, according
to a company statement. Don Ghareeb, who founded the business
with Dick Reese in 1989, will remain an active board member and
adviser to the companies.  Steve Brownlie, principal of Altamont, said in a statement,
“Tacala’s growth and success are testaments to both the
strength of the Taco Bell brand and to the talent of the Tacala
management team.”  Altamont Capital Partners is a private investment firm
based in the San Francisco Bay Area with about $500 million of
capital under management, according to a company statement.  Ropes & Gray, also led by Boes, represented Altamont
Capital Partners in its transaction announced this week to take
a majority stake in Omniplex World Services Corp., a provider of
government security and background investigations services.  King & Spalding Advises on GE Aviation Venture with Accenture  King & Spalding LLP advised GE Aviation in its agreement
with Accenture to form a joint venture company, called Taleris,
that will provide airlines and cargo carriers around the world
intelligent operations services focused on improving efficiency,
the firm said.  The King & Spalding legal team involved in the joint
venture was led by corporate partner Michael J. Egan and
included partner James H. Lokey on tax.  The new venture will leverage aircraft performance data,
prognostics, recovery and planning optimization solutions that
will include assets and capabilities from both GE and Accenture,
the firm said. Financial details weren’t provided.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 