-- Berkshire to Buy Lightower, Sidera for $2 Billion
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r   a n d   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2012-12-27T15:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/berkshire-partners-buying-lightower-sidera-in-2-billion-deal.html
Berkshire Partners LLC, a Boston-
based buyout firm that invests in mid-sized companies, agreed to
acquire Lightower Fiber Networks and Sidera Networks in a $2
billion deal that will create a fiber-optic network operator
serving 6,000 locations.  Berkshire Partners plans to merge the two companies, which
will be run by Lightower Chief Executive Officer Rob Shanahan,
according to a statement today. M/C Partners and Pamlico Capital
acquired Lightower from  National Grid Plc (NG/)  in 2007. Pamlico, the
former private-equity unit of Wachovia Corp. before it was
purchased by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , will remain an investor in the
new business, as will Sidera backer Abry Partners.  Berkshire Partners has raised $11 billion since it was co-
founded in 1984 by a group including Brad Bloom and Richard
Lubin, previously of Boston-based buyout firm Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP. Berkshire Partners’ prior investments in
communications companies include the acquisition last year of
Telx Group Inc., for which it teamed up with Abry Partners, also
based in  Boston .  Lightower and Sidera build high-capacity networks for
customers such as data-center operators, commercial buildings
and financial exchanges. Combined, they will have 20,000 miles
of network in the Northeast, mid-Atlantic and Midwest.  ‘Robust Network’  “The combined company, with its incredibly robust network,
is well positioned for continued growth serving customers with
an ever-increasing need for high-performance bandwidth,” Randy
Peeler, a managing director at Berkshire Partners, said in the
statement.  Berkshire Partners isn’t affiliated with  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  of Omaha, Nebraska.  M/C Partners, which invests in communications, media and
technology companies, and Pamlico Capital acquired National Grid
Wireless US in 2007 and later renamed it Lightower. Abry
Partners in August 2010 acquired cable operator RCN Corp. for
$1.2 billion, and spun out Sidera as an independent business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Turner in  New York  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  