-- Bovespa Index Drops Most in Three Weeks as Petrobras, OGX Tumble
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-12-27T20:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/bovespa-index-futures-little-changed-after-brazil-inflation-data.html
The Bovespa index dropped the most
in three weeks as  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  slid after Valor
Economico reported the state-controlled company is losing money
by offering natural gas below cost.  Petrobras contributed the most to the benchmark’s decline.
 OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , billionaire  Eike Batista ’s
oil company, followed crude lower. Consumer-products maker
Hypermarcas SA rallied after a report that showed inflation was
slower than forecast in December spurred speculation that the
central bank will hold borrowing costs at record lows.  The Bovespa retreated 0.9 percent to 60,415.95 at the close
of trading in  Sao Paulo , its biggest decline since Dec. 4.
Forty-three stocks slid while 24 rose. The real strengthened 0.3
percent to 2.0434 per dollar.  “Petrobras has suffered for a while from the government’s
pressure to hold its prices at levels that don’t cover costs,
and this news report today is more evidence of this problem,”
 Pedro Galdi , the chief strategist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage
SLW Corretora, said in a phone interview.  Petrobras slumped 3.2 percent to 19.41 reais. The company’s
press office declined to comment on Valor’s report when
contacted by  Bloomberg News .  OGX lost 1.4 percent to 4.32 reais as crude fell in New
York from the highest level in two months after U.S. Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said lawmakers and President  Barack
Obama  probably won’t reach an agreement to avoid automatic tax
increases and spending cuts set to take effect next year.  Hypermarcas Rally  Hypermarcas gained 1.9 percent to 16.57 reais, the highest
closing level since Oct. 23. Brazil’s IGP-M index of wholesale,
construction and consumer prices climbed 0.68 percent in
December, the Getulio Vargas Foundation reported. The median
forecast of 30 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.76
percent increase. Prices rose 7.82 percent from a year earlier.  Brazil’s policy makers left the target lending  rate  at a
record low 7.25 percent last month following 10 straight
reductions to support the economy.  The Bovespa has climbed 15 percent from this year’s low in
June as stimulus from central banks around the world eased
concern about an economic slowdown while record low benchmark
lending rates have pushed some investors to move into stocks
from fixed income.  Brazil ’s benchmark equity  index  trades at 11.4 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 11 for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing
nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 4.77 billion reais in stocks in Sao
Paulo today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with
a daily average of 7.27 billion reais this year through Dec. 26,
according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  