-- Brazil Central Bank Cuts Reserve Requirements to Spur Investment
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2012-12-27T22:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/brazil-central-bank-cuts-reserve-requirements-to-spur-investment.html
Brazil ’s central bank lowered bank
 reserve requirements  to spur flagging investments in the world’s
second-largest emerging market.  Large banks that provide credit for capital-goods
investment can deduct as much as 20 percent of reserve
requirements for their so-called “on call” deposits that can
be withdrawn at any time, the central bank said in a statement
today. This change applies to banks with a minimum of 6 billion
reais ($2.9 billion) in total equity, and the central bank said
it expects the measure will create 15 billion reais in fresh
credit.  The move signals a shift toward macro-prudential measures
to spark growth in the world’s sixth-largest economy, said  Pedro Tuesta , senior Latin America economist at 4Cast Inc. On Dec. 23,
President  Dilma Rousseff  called on the country’s businesses to
increase investments after authorities this year cut taxes and
announced infrastructure spending aimed at making Brazil’s
economy more competitive.  “This is a targeted measure,” Tuesta said in a telephone
interview from  Washington . “They are trying to focus efforts of
monetary easing to help recovery in investment, which has been
the weakest link in the recovery.”  Falling business confidence caused investment to drop five
straight quarters through September.  Earlier this month, the central bank reduced reserve
requirements on short dollar positions held by local banks to
buoy the real. In September, the central bank reduced reserve
requirements to free as much as 30 billion reais in credit one
week after Rousseff criticized banks for overcharging on loans.  The central bank on Dec. 20 cut Brazil’s 2012 growth
forecast to 1 percent, after the economy  expanded  in the third
quarter at half the pace of analysts’ forecasts. Still, Brazil
is creating the conditions to grow 4 percent next year, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said earlier this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  