-- Canadian Dollar Weakens as U.S. Budget Talks Hit Impasse
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-12-27T22:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/canadian-dollar-gains-on-optimism-u-s-reaches-cliff-deal.html
The Canadian dollar fell to its
lowest level in almost a month as an impasse on U.S. budget
negotiations renewed concern the showdown may push the nation’s
biggest trading partner into recession next year.  The currency pared losses against its U.S. counterpart
after Bloomberg News reported that U.S. Speaker John Boehner
told fellow Republican lawmakers during a conference call that
the U.S. House will convene on Dec. 30. Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid said earlier it looked like the U.S. was headed
“over the cliff” and criticized the Republican-led House for
not gathering with less than a week left to negotiate a budget
deal to avoid $600 billion in automatic spending cuts and tax
raises. Prices of natural resources and higher-yielding assets
had dropped as investors became more risk adverse.  “That kind of knocked the sails out of any market risk
appetite,” said Matthew Perrier, Toronto-based director of
foreign exchange at  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  by phone. “Reid made his
comments on the floor suggesting time was running out.”  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.09 percent to 99.52
cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after touching
99.59, the lowest since Nov. 28. One loonie buys $1.005. The
Canadian dollar is up 2.6 percent this year versus its U.S.
counterpart, erasing a 2.33 percent decline for 2011.  Crude oil,  Canada ’s biggest export, fluctuated after
dropping as much as 1 percent to $90.05 per barrel and Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent.  Yields Decline  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds rose, with
yields declining three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 1.79 percent. The 2.75 percent security due in June 2022
gained 23 cents to C$108.26.  “It’s going to have a negative influence on the Canadian
dollar,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange
at  National Bank of Canada (NA)  in Toronto.  Democratic and Republican leaders of the U.S. House and
Senate plan to meet with President  Barack Obama , Senator Dick
Durbin said today. Reid, Boehner, Senate Minority Leader Mitch
McConnell and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi will join the
President at the White House, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  