-- CAR Rebels Capture New Town; French Embassy in Capital Attacked
-- B y   C r i s p i n   D e m b a s s a - K e t t e
-- 2012-12-27T06:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/car-rebels-capture-new-town-french-embassy-in-capital-attacked.html
Rebels in  Central African Republic 
captured another town in the north of the country as protesters
in the capital, Bangui, attacked the French Embassy.  Kanga-Bandoro, about 300 kilometers (186 miles) north of
Bangui, was seized on Dec. 25, according to  Radio Ndeke Luka , a
Bangui-based broadcaster, which cited the four-member rebel
group known as Seleka. Students protested outside the French and
U.S. embassies in Bangui yesterday over the rebellion. They
burned a French flag and called on the U.S. to help the
government halt the rebels’ advance.  “The U.S. is the most powerful country in the world and we
solicit their support to help the government fight against the
rebels,” Amos Kotto, a student at the University of Bangui,
said in an interview in front of the U.S. Embassy.  The rebels have captured at least 10 towns since resuming
fighting on Dec. 10. They want the terms of the four-year-old,
so-called  Libreville Comprehensive Peace Agreement  renegotiated
after accusing President Francois Bozize of failing to implement
terms of the accord. The fighters also oppose plans by Bozize to
alter the constitution to seek a third term.  CAR government officials will travel to Libreville, the
Gabonese capital, tomorrow to hold talks with the rebels,
Foreign Minister Antoine Gambi said in comments broadcast on
Radio Ndeke Luka yesterday.  The U.S. has warned its citizens against traveling to the
CAR and recommends against “all but essential travel” outside
Bangui. The  United Nations  has begun evacuating staff from the
country, according to  Agence France-Presse .  Central African Republic was the world’s 12th-largest
producer of rough diamonds by value in 2010, when output was
250,000 carats, according to data on the U.S. Geological
Survey’s  website . A carat is equal to a fifth of a gram. The
country also produces gold and has undeveloped resources of
copper, iron, manganese and uranium, the USGS said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crispin Dembassa-Kette in Bangui via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  