-- CFTC Mutual Fund Rule Appeal Sought by Business Groups
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-12-27T18:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/cftc-mutual-fund-rule-appeal-sought-by-business-groups.html
The  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  is
seeking to appeal a judge’s decision to uphold a rule by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission requiring mutual funds with
commodities investments to register with the agency.  The Chamber of Commerce and the  Investment Company
Institute  filed a notice of appeal today in federal court in
 Washington , seeking to ask an appeals court to reverse a Dec. 12
ruling by U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell that the CFTC acted
properly and within its authority when it issued the rule.  Howell, writing in a 93-page opinion, rejected arguments by
the chamber of commerce and the institute that the rule is
unnecessary, and that the commission didn’t properly assess the
costs and benefits when it approved the regulation in February.  “The district court’s decision fell far short of well-
established D.C. Circuit precedent requiring agencies to
adequately measure the costs imposed by capital markets
regulations on businesses, investors and the economy as a whole,
and to weigh them against the desired benefits,” David Hirschmann, president and chief executive officer of the
chamber’s Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Stephanie Allen, a CFTC spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the notice of appeal.  The case is one of several brought by the financial
industry as it pushes back against tighter regulations passed in
the wake of the 2008 credit crisis. On Nov. 8,  CME Group Inc. (CME) ,
the world’s largest futures market, sued the commission to
challenge cleared-swaps reporting requirements imposed under the
Dodd-Frank Act.  Futures, Swaps  Investment companies have “increased significantly” their
use of commodity futures, swaps and options since the agency
determined in 2003 that they didn’t need to register as
“commodity pool operators,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said
when the rule was passed.  Under the rule, funds would have to file reports with the
CFTC about their use of leverage, exposure to risk from
counterparties and other investment trading data.  The groups argued the measure isn’t needed because mutual
funds are already overseen by the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The case is Investment Company Institute v. U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, 1:12-cv-00612, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  