-- Chavez Absence Won’t Derail Inauguration, Top Lawmaker Says
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-12-27T00:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/chavez-absence-won-t-derail-inauguration-top-lawmaker-says-1-.html
Venezuela ’s congressional leader
said it doesn’t matter if President  Hugo Chavez  doesn’t arrive
for his scheduled Jan. 10 inauguration as the nation’s
constitution doesn’t specify when and where the swearing must
take place.  “The constitution is clear, if the president isn’t here
for some reason on Jan. 10, he’ll be sworn in before the  Supreme
Court ,” National Assembly head  Diosdado Cabello  said today in
comments broadcast on state television. “Where? It doesn’t say
where. When? It doesn’t say when.”  Chavez, who won a third presidential term on Oct. 7, has
not appeared in public since flying to Cuba 16 days ago for his
fourth operation to treat an undisclosed type of cancer. He said
on Dec. 8 that voters should elect Vice President Nicolas Maduro
to protect his legacy if his illness prevents him from remaining
in office.  The opposition is concerned that the government may try to
delay the swearing in and possible subsequent national elections
if Chavez is too ill to take office. Opposition alliance leader
Ramon Jose Medina said Chavez should arrive on Jan. 10 to take
the presidential oath, arguing the date “is constitutionally
set and can’t be changed for personal opinions or political
convenience.”  Cabello said today that Chavez’s electoral victory
outweighs swearing-in protocol.  “We can’t take away the wish of the majority from Oct. 7
simply to satisfy the Venezuelan bourgeoisie,” Cabello said.  Phone Call  Chavez phoned from  Havana  to order his Cabinet to start
discussing economic policy this week, Maduro said on Dec. 24.  Under Venezuelan law, if Chavez steps down before Jan. 10,
Maduro would see out the rest of the current term and then hand
over power to Cabello, who must call for an election within 30
days. If Chavez is unable to start his new term Jan. 10 but does
not step down, the National Assembly president must determine if
the absence is temporary or absolute.  Venezuela’s Supreme Court is open to any constitutional
questions that might emerge if Chavez is not able to be sworn in
for a new six-year term on Jan. 10, Supreme Court President
Luisa Estella Morales said Dec. 20.  “Chavez said that if for any reason he was unable, our
comrade  Nicolas Maduro  was the one in charge,” Cabello said.
“We all have to support him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Roeder at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  