-- China Stocks Drop as Valuation Concerns Overshadow Profit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-27T07:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-before-industrial-profit-report.html
China’s stocks  fell on concern a
rally this month that lifted the benchmark index from a three-
year low was excessive, overshadowing growth in industrial
companies’ profits.  Anhui Conch Cement Co. (600585)  led declines for materials
producers, slumping 2.9 percent. Shaanxi Qinling Cement Co.
tumbled 6.1 percent, trimming its gain since the Shanghai
Composite hit this year’s low on Dec. 3 to 91 percent.
Industrial & Commercial Bank of  China  Ltd. paces losses for
financial companies, the worst performer among industry groups
in the CSI 300 Index, on speculation banks are hoarding cash to
meet year-end  capital requirements .  “The market has risen too fast and ahead of economic
fundamentals,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “The index will probably peak in
January. Earnings for listed companies won’t have explosive
growth next year.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.6 percent to 2,205.90
at the close. The measure rose as much as 0.7 percent after a
report showed industrial companies’ profits climbed for a third
month in November. The index has risen 13 percent since this
year’s closing low of 1,959.77 on Dec. 3 as the nation’s new
leaders said they would promote urban development as part of
economic reforms.  The Shanghai Composite’s 14-day relative strength  measure ,
measuring how rapidly prices have advanced or dropped during a
specified time period, was at 73.4 yesterday. Readings above 70
indicate a price may be poised to fall.  The  CSI 300 (SHSZ300)  lost 0.5 percent to 2,444.59 today, while the
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  gained 0.7 percent as  Hong
Kong ’s markets resumed trading after being shut for two days for
holidays. The H-shares index trades at 9.5 times estimated
profit, compared with 10.8 for the Shanghai Composite.  Cement Stocks  While data from the statistics bureau today showed
industrial companies’ profit growth accelerating to 22.8 percent
last month from a 20.5 percent gain in October, another report
modeled on the U.S. Federal Reserve’s  Beige Book  indicated
China’s economic rebound is uneven.  Improvements in retailing, real estate and mining were
countered by rising inventories and lower corporate borrowing,
CBB International LLC, a New York-based researcher, said in an
e-mailed summary of its China Beige Book.  Trading volumes on the Shanghai gauge were 57 percent above
the 30-day average today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The number of stock-trading accounts that made
transactions in yuan-denominated A shares last week increased to
9.6 million from 8.6 million the previous week, the highest
level since the week to Sept. 14.  Anhui Conch, China’s biggest cement maker, slid 2.9 percent
to 18.18  yuan . The stock has climbed 33 percent over the past
four months. Qinling Cement, the biggest gainer in the Shanghai
Composite since Dec. 3, tumbled 6.1 percent to 7.l1 yuan.  Gansu
Qilianshan Cement Group Co. (600720)  retreated 2.4 percent to 10.12 yuan.  Repo Rate  A gauge of financial stocks in the CSI 300 slumped 0.9
percent today, the most among the 10 industry groups. ICBC, the
nation’s biggest listed lender, sank 0.7 percent to 4.05 yuan.
China Construction Bank Corp., the second biggest, lost 1.5
percent to 4.51 yuan. China Minsheng Banking Corp., the nation’s
first privately owned bank, retreated 1.4 percent to 7.64 yuan.  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, rose 30 basis points to 4.12 percent as of
3:20 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average rate
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  “Demand for capital is high in the last few days of this
year,” said Song Qiuhong, a bond trader at Foshan Shunde Rural
Commercial Bank Co. in Foshan, a city in the southern  Guangdong
province . “It may decline once the year-end passes.”  The Shanghai index has gained 0.3 percent this year and its
thirty-day  volatility  was at 20 today, compared with this year’s
average of 17.  Urbanization Plan  Chinese solar companies rose the most in seven days in  New
York  trading yesterday on prospects the nation’ urbanization
plan will bolster new energy demand in 2013. The iShares FTSE
China 25 Index Fund, the largest Chinese exchange-traded fund in
the U.S., climbed 0.8 percent.  China’s urbanization, which Vice Premier  Li Keqiang 
promoted this month as a driver for economic growth, is expected
to spur 40 trillion yuan ($6.4 trillion) of investment by 2020,
the Southern Metropolis Daily reported on Dec. 25, citing a
draft plan by the nation’s top planning agency. The government
confirmed this month a second round of subsidies to more than
100 developers of solar projects as well as feed-in tariffs to
support the industry.  “What these programs do in China is creating domestic
demand,” Dave Smith, the portfolio manager of the Gabelli Green
Fund, said by phone from Purchase, New York yesterday. “It’s
positive for stock prices in the short term because they give a
sense of confidence that these companies will be generating
higher volumes.”  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan,  Matthew Oakley   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at   awan3@bloomberg.net  