-- China-Taiwan Thaw Clears Way for Fubon’s Record Sino Deal
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-12-28T01:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/china-taiwan-thaw-clears-way-for-fubon-s-record-sino-deal.html
Fubon Financial Holding Co. (2881) ’s 5.65
billion-yuan ($906 million) purchase of China’s First Sino Bank
caps a record year for cross-strait acquisitions as economic
integration between  Taiwan  and the mainland deepens.  Taiwan’s second-biggest publicly traded financial company
by market value will buy 29 percent of First Sino and its Taipei
Fubon Bank unit will purchase 51 percent, Fubon Financial  said 
yesterday. Shares in the parent company, based in the island’s
capital, rose to a 14-month high today after news of the
acquisition, the largest on the mainland by a Taiwanese buyer.  Fubon Financial’s second purchase of a Chinese bank takes
this year’s announced deals between companies in China and
Taiwan to an all-time high of $2.2 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The sale, which exceeds the $720 million the
island’s companies spent on mainland targets in 2011, comes as
political ties improve under the ruling Kuomintang party.  “As the relationship between China and Taiwan improves,
Taiwanese companies, including banks, are seeking development on
the mainland,” said Lewis Wan, Hong Kong-based chief investment
officer at Pride Investments Group Ltd. “Taiwan’s banking
sector is very competitive as there are too many lenders, and
thus very limited room for profit growth.”  Fubon Financial will buy the stock from shareholders
including Lotus World Wide Ltd.,  Wing Hang Bank Ltd. (302)  and
 Shanghai Pudong Development Bank (600000) , according to two people with
knowledge of the matter and an unidentified official at Fubon.  Pudong Development Bank will retain 20 percent of First
Sino after the sale, according to a draft statement seen by
 Bloomberg News  and the Fubon official. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
advised Fubon on the purchase, the two people said.  Shares Gain  Fubon Financial rose 2.3 percent to NT$35.05, the highest
since Oct. 28 last year, at 9:33 a.m. in Taipei. The benchmark
Taiex Index advanced 0.5 percent. Shares of Fubon have climbed
15 percent this year, beating an 8.7 percent gain in the Taiex.  Taipei Fubon and Fubon Financial will subscribe for an
additional 800 million  yuan  of new shares after the purchase,
proportionate to their holdings, according to the statement. The
total payment of 6.45 billion yuan values First Sino at 2.18
times its book value based on the increased capital, Fubon said.
The deal needs approval from regulators in China and Taiwan.  Mainland Operations  “ Taiwanese banks  are interested in getting into China to
better serve Taiwanese firms on the mainland, but this might not
be the case for mainland lenders,” said Francis Lun, Hong Kong-
based managing director at Lyncean Securities Ltd. “There
aren’t many mainland companies with operations in Taiwan, and
the Taiwanese market is already very saturated.”  Taiwan’s financial regulator last year urged lenders to
expand faster on the mainland as competition erodes returns at
home.  China , with a population more than 50 times bigger than
Taiwan’s, is the island’s largest trading partner.  Taiwan is poised to become the world’s second offshore
center for the Chinese currency. Fuh Hwa Securities Investment
Trust Co. will start marketing Taiwan’s first yuan-denominated
bond fund within three months, the company said yesterday.  Tensions between China and Taiwan have eased since
President Ma Ying-jeou took the post in 2008 and dropped his
predecessor’s pro-independence stance, focusing instead on
strengthening economic ties with the mainland. That has helped
bring relations to their warmest in more than 60 years.  China claims Taiwan as a province and has vowed to reunite
it with the mainland by force if necessary. The two sides have
been ruled separately since 1949, when the Kuomintang government
fled to the island following its defeat by the Communists in the
Chinese civil war.  Insurance Venture  Fubon’s  Hong Kong  unit bought 19.99 percent of Xiamen City
Commercial Bank in June 2008 for $33 million, and its insurance
units set up a life insurance venture with Nanjing Zijin
Investment Holding Co., the company said in February last year.  First Sino Bank, founded in  Shanghai  in 1997, is the first
joint venture bank between China and Taiwan. Total assets rose
41 percent to 40.6 billion yuan as of the end of 2011, according
to its annual report. Total lending climbed 19 percent to 23.6
billion yuan last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Russell Ward at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net  