-- Chinese Industrial Companies’ Profits Climb for 3rd Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-27T04:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/china-nov-industrial-companies-profit-rises-22-8-on-year.html
Chinese industrial companies’
profits rose for a third month in November, supporting a rebound
in economic growth that may ease the transition to the nation’s
new leadership.  Net income gained 22.8 percent from a year earlier to 638.5
billion  yuan  ($102 billion), the  National Bureau of Statistics 
said today in Beijing, after a 20.5 percent rise in October.  The world’s second-biggest economy is set for the first
pickup in growth in eight quarters after the government
accelerated investment-project approvals and boosted spending on
infrastructure. The new Communist Party leadership led by Xi
Jinping is seeking to sustain the recovery without fueling
property-price bubbles or adding to bad-loan risks in the
banking system.  “ China ’s economic recovery trend is quite clear now, and
growth in the first half of 2013 will be strong as local
governments are eager to start new investment projects now,’ Shi
Lei, a Beijing-based analyst with Founder Securities Co., said
before the release. ‘‘At the same time, recovery prospects are
clouded by weak external demand and a possible crackdown from
regulators on the shadow banking system.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks advanced yesterday
to the highest level in five months after investors wiped out
losses of as much as 11 percent during this year. The gauge was
0.1 percent lower as of 11:30 a.m local time today on concern a
rally that lifted shares from an almost four-year low is
excessive.  Beige Book  A separate report pointed to limits on China’s recovery.  The nation’s rebound is uneven, with improvements in
retailing, real estate and mining countered by rising
inventories and lower corporate borrowing, according to a report
modeled on the U.S. Federal Reserve’s Beige Book and released
last night.  While shopping outlets and services companies are
optimistic, credit conditions signal “this is not yet a period
of strong expansion,” CBB International LLC, a New York-based
researcher, said in an e-mailed summary of its China  Beige Book .  “The economy as a whole saw an uneven rebound in the
fourth quarter, driven by strength in retail, real estate,
mining and to a lesser extent, manufacturing,” said Leland
Miller, New York-based president of China Beige Book
International. “But serious structural issues remain, including
expanding manufacturing and mining inventories and credit-easing
policies that continue to yield increasingly diminished
returns.”  Growth Pickup  Economic growth probably accelerated to 7.8 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 34 economists this month.
That compares with 7.4 percent in the previous three months, the
slowest pace in three years.  The  World Bank  says growth may be as much as 8.4 percent
next year after a likely 7.9 percent expansion in 2012, set to
be the weakest pace since 1999.  Industrial companies’ profits  in the first 11 months of the
year rose 3 percent to 4.66 trillion yuan, compared with a 24.4
percent gain in the same period in 2011 and a 0.5 percent
increase in the first 10 months.  Profit growth will continue to recover in the first half of
next year as revenue improves, UBS AG’s chief China economist
 Wang Tao  said in a Dec. 20 report.  In the first 11 months, industrial companies’ sales
increased 10.8 percent from a year earlier to 82.3 trillion
yuan. That compares with a 21.6 percent gain in the same period
last year.  Power Surge  Among 41 industry categories covered by the statistics
bureau data, 30 reported profits rose in the January-November
period from a year earlier, including 62.9 percent growth in the
power generating industry, as coal prices fell, and 16.6 percent
in the food processing sector. Auto industry earnings rose 7.4
percent in the first 11 months, slowing from a 9 percent pace in
the first 10 months.  Ten industries reported a drop in profits, including non-
ferrous metals smelting and chemicals manufacturing, while
losses in the oil and nuclear processing industries widened, the
bureau said.  --Zhou Xin, Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Regina Tan in
Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  