-- Clariant Sells Three Units to SK Capital for $550 Million
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-12-27T14:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/clariant-sells-three-units-to-sk-capital-for-550-million.html
Clariant AG (CLN)  agreed to sell three
businesses to SK Capital Partners for 502 million Swiss francs
($550 million) as the chemical maker divests assets a year
before its own deadline to concentrate on more profitable units.  The price is 6.3 times estimated 2012 earnings before
interest, taxes, amortization and depreciation, Muttenz,
Switzerland-based Clariant said in a statement. The deal, part
of a plan to sell five divisions by the end of 2013, is expected
to be completed by late June, the company said. The stock rose
to the highest in almost nine months.  “What is important is that they could sell all three as a
unit, and pretty early too,”  Martin Schreiber , an analyst at
Zuercher Kantonalbank, said by phone. “This is clearly a
positive signal for the other business units to be sold.”  The early disposals give a year-end boost to Clariant Chief
Executive Officer Hariolf Kottmann as he presses ahead with
plans to divest the two remaining businesses that are slated for
sale next year. Kottmann is seeking to revamp Clariant after
acquiring German catalyst maker Sued-Chemie AG last year for
$2.7 billion.  “I am of course very happy that we were able to realize
the sale much faster than most people had expected,” Kottmann
said in an e-mailed response to questions. Proceeds from the
sale could be used for acquisitions as the CEO continues to
“re-position” Clariant’s assets, he said.  More Disposals  A plan to exit leather chemicals and sell a unit making
detergents and intermediates is “well on track,” Kottmann
said. He declined to comment further on the process, which the
Swiss chemical maker said Nov. 14 would begin with an auction in
the first quarter of 2013.  Clariant said it will receive about 460 million francs in
cash for selling the textile chemicals, paper-specialties and
emulsions businesses. Pension liabilities make up a 42 million-
franc non-cash part of the deal, spokesman Kai Rolker said by
phone.  “The writedown on the asset is much less than I
expected,” said Zuercher Kantonalbank’s Schreiber. “They seem
to have sold it for something like book value.”  Clariant  was trading up  3.1 percent at 12.21 francs as of
3:40 p.m. in Zurich, the highest since April 5, based on closing
prices, after rising as much as 6 percent earlier today. The
stock has gained 36 percent this year as Kottmann has sold
weaker assets.  The three units, which employ about 3,000 people in 35
countries, will report full-year revenue of about 1.2 billion
francs, Clariant said.  The Ebitda margin of the three businesses for 2012 is about
7.8 percent of revenue, based on Clariant’s forecasts. That’s
lower than the 11 percent margin analysts are  estimating  for the
entire company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Clariant aims for an Ebitda margin exceeding 17 percent in 2015.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Homburger AG and Ernst & Young advised
Clariant on the sale, while Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, Baer &
Karrer AG and Jefferies & Company, Inc. advised SK Capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  