-- Colombian Peso Climbs to Highest Since July on Tax Cut
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-12-27T15:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/colombian-peso-climbs-to-highest-since-july-on-tax-cut.html
Colombia ’s peso, the world’s third-
best-performing currency this year, rose to its highest since
July on speculation more money will flow into the country after
lawmakers passed a bill to cut taxes on foreign bond profits.  The peso appreciated almost 0.1 percent to 1,768.50 per
dollar at 10:47 a.m. in Bogota, the strongest level on a closing
basis since July 4. It rallied to this year’s high of 1,755 per
dollar on May 7.  Colombia’s currency has gained 9.5 percent this year, the
best performance in the world after the Polish zloty and
Hungarian forint. The peso strengthened as army victories over
guerrillas opened up swaths of countryside to overseas
investment in mining and oil and bolstered  consumer confidence .
The new  tax rate  on bonds may provide an additional incentive.  “The  tax cut  will probably attract more foreigners into
the local market, which means more foreign currency coming into
Colombia,” Taimyra Batz, an analyst at Bogota-based brokerage
firm Ultrabursatiles SA, said in a telephone interview.  Congress approved last week reducing the levy on bond
profits to 14 percent from 33 percent for most foreign
investors. For those from countries considered  tax havens , the
rate will drop to 25 percent. The changes are part of a wider
tax initiative approved by lawmakers that lowered payroll
contributions while increasing taxes on revenue.  The  Finance Ministry  will present its 2013 financing plan
today at 4 p.m. in Bogota, including the amount of bonds the
government plans to sell in local and overseas markets.  The yield on the government’s 10 percent peso-denominated
securities due in July 2024 was unchanged at 5.70 percent,
according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  