-- DAX Has Best Year in Nine as ECB Acts on Debt Crisis
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-12-27T17:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/dax-has-best-year-in-nine-as-ecb-acts-on-debt-crisis.html
Germany ’s  DAX Index (DAX)  is on course to
complete its best year since 2003 this week, with bulls saying
the gauge will become the first national benchmark in the euro
area to exceed its 2007 peak for earnings.  The measure  rose 29 percent  in 2012 through the end of last
week, the biggest advance of every developed market tracked by
Bloomberg apart from Greece, underpinned by the European Central
Bank’s pledge to buy the bonds of the most indebted members of
the single currency. The DAX’s  per-share earnings  before
dividends may end 2013 at 385.84 euros, beating 2007’s 385.24
euros, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  This year’s performance marks a rebound from a 15 percent
slump in 2011, when investors sold the DAX as a proxy for
southern European markets where authorities had banned short
selling. Earnings at exporters from  Continental AG (CON)  to  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  helped DAX profit grow by 9.3 percent in 2012,
while earnings in  France , the Netherlands and Spain shrank by an
average 17 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It has been an impressive rally and we think the
structural and cyclical drivers for Germany are still there,”
said Mathieu L’Hoir, an equity strategist at Axa Investment
Managers in Paris. “Germany is well exposed to a rebound in
global trade. The decline we have seen in risk premiums has yet
to be reflected in German equities.”  2013 Forecasts  The fund manager predicts the DAX will climb about 13
percent next year, beating the rest of Europe. Three percentage
points of that rally will come from dividends. Commerzbank AG,
Germany’s second-largest bank, forecasts the benchmark will rise
11 percent to a record 8,500 next year, taking the valuation
above its six-year average to the highest since 2010.  The DAX advanced 0.3 percent to 7,655.88 at the close of
Frankfurt trading today, after the three-day Christmas holiday.  The Euro Stoxx 50 Index has  rallied 15 percent this year .
The gauge of the  largest 50 companies  in the euro area plunged
17 percent in 2011 as the single currency’s debt crisis forced
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts. ECB President
 Mario Draghi  said on July 26 that the bank would do “whatever
it takes to preserve the euro.”  Draghi unveiled a plan to buy bonds at the central bank’s
September meeting. The program, known as Outright Monetary
Transactions, was intended to enable the ECB to regain control
of interest rates and save the euro.  The yield  on benchmark 10-
year Spanish government bonds has since fallen to 5.21 percent
from a euro-era record of 7.75 percent on July 25.  ECB Oversight  European Union finance ministers this month agreed to give
the ECB oversight of the euro area’s largest lenders, a step
toward creating a single regulatory regime for banks.  Germany’s economy will probably expand by 0.8 percent in
2013, the European Union said in November. That compares with
forecast growth of 0.1 percent for the combined economy of the
17 countries in the currency zone. Foreign investors have used
the DAX to make bullish and bearish bets on political and
economic developments in the currency zone, said Michael Quach,
a strategist, at Smith & Williamson Investment Management Ltd.  “Companies there are doing well, benefiting from exports,
but there has also been the effect of a sharp drop in risk
aversion,” Abi Oladimeji, who helps oversee $4.3 billion as
head of investment strategy at Thomas Miller Investment Ltd. in
London, said in a phone interview on Dec. 12. “If you have to
hold euro-zone securities, then German securities are the most
attractive within the euro area.”  Continental, BMW  Continental has  surged 82 percent  this year.  Europe ’s
second-largest maker of car parts on Oct. 31 reiterated its
earnings targets for 2012, saying that growth in North America
and Asia offset weakness in its home region. Analysts estimate
that its  operating income  will gain 25 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Continental generated more than 40 percent of its revenue
from outside Europe in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  BMW has  rallied 40 percent  this year. Demand from  China  and
the U.S. has shielded Munich-based BMW from the debt crisis in
Europe, where the car market may shrink by the most in almost
two decades this year. The world’s biggest maker of luxury cars
on Dec. 7 targeted higher sales and profit next year. Revenue
will probably grow by 10 percent in 2012, according to  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Per-share earnings excluding dividends for  the DAX  will
grow 3.5 percent in 2013, according to estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. They increased 9.3 percent in 2012 and 21 percent in
2011, an average growth for the three years of 11 percent.  Sliding Earnings  Earnings for the Netherlands’  AEX Index (AEX)  fell 12 percent in
2012, the forecasts show. Profits for Spain’s IBEX 35 Index and
France’s CAC 40 Index dropped 32 percent and 6.3 percent,
respectively. Positive earnings for  Italy ’s FTSE MIB Index will
contract for the fourth time in five years, Bloomberg data show.  All 11 of the largest western-European equity benchmarks
other than the DAX will fail to beat their 2007 earnings next
year, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg
through Dec. 17.  Commerzbank equity strategists Andreas Huerkamp, Markus Wallner and Gunnar Hamann forecast in a Dec. 6 note that the DAX
will end 2013 at 8,500, an 11 percent advance from the close of
trading on Dec. 21.  The German benchmark, which tracks the total return of
stocks including dividends, will climb to 12 times next-year
 earnings  from 10 times last month, the strategists forecast.
They based their estimate on a global economic recovery and a
“successful” OMT program by the ECB, they wrote. The index
last traded above 12 times future earnings in 2010, Bloomberg
data show.  ‘Perfect Environment’  “We see improving leading indicators across the world, and
due to the globalized nature of German companies, this would be
the perfect environment for the DAX for next year,” Wallner
said in a phone interview on Dec. 17. A year earlier the
strategists forecast the DAX would rise 22 percent in 2012.  China’s  manufacturing industry  expanded for a second month
in December, underscoring optimism that the economy would
recover from a seven-quarter slowdown. In the U.S., a Commerce
Department report showed that durable-goods orders increased in
November more than economists had projected.  Risks to the DAX’s performance in 2013 include the end to
U.S. tax breaks that may curb economic growth, Germany’s
election of a new parliament in September, and Spain’s delay in
deciding to apply for OMT support, Commerzbank said.  Slower Growth  Lars Slomka and Jan Rabe, strategists at Deutsche Bank AG,
are less bullish. Germany’s biggest bank predicted on Nov. 26
the DAX will climb 4.5 percent to 8,000 by the end of 2013.
That’s about 1.2 percent excluding dividends. The Frankfurt-
based bank’s European equity strategists forecast a 12 percent
price gain for the Stoxx 600. A Deutsche Bank spokesman said
Slomka and Rabe were not available to comment about their
forecasts.  Smith & Williamson’s Quach said the ECB has succeeded in
removing Europe’s “tail risk,” helping offset the negative
forces of deleveraging. This should continue to underpin German
stocks’ outperformance, he said.  “The overall growth environment is likely to be modest,
but is also likely to be somewhat protracted,” Quach, who helps
oversee $19 billion, said in an interview on Dec. 18. “The
exposure to the right part of the global economy means that
Germany is likely to fare better again next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  