-- DFM Gains as Volume Pickup to Help Exchange’s Net: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-12-27T10:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/dfm-gains-as-volume-pickup-to-help-exchange-s-net-dubai-mover.html
Dubai Financial Market (DFM)  PJSC advanced
the most in almost three months on bets the only publicly traded
Gulf Cooperation Council stock market will return to profit as
trading volume picks up.  The shares advanced 3.7 percent, the most since Oct. 7, to
1.02 dirhams at the close in the emirate, bringing this year’s
gain to 21 percent. The stock was the  biggest gainer  and  third-
most traded  on the benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI) , which rose 0.4
percent. The company said last month its third-quarter loss
 narrowed to 1.71 million dirhams  ($465,572) from 9.3 million
dirhams a year earlier.  Dubai’s index is set to become the best performer in the
six-nation GCC this year, with an advance of 19 percent compared
with a gain of 3.7 percent for the region’s  Bloomberg GCC 200
Index. (BGCC200)  Trading value on the bourse gained 47 percent in the
first nine months, the exchange said in November. The company,
whose shares tumbled 44 percent in 2011, may return to profit in
2012, the  median estimate  of three analysts on Bloomberg shows.  The stock rose amid “expectations of improved full-year
results,” said Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al
Fajer Securities. The stock’s performance is partially “based
on a technical rebound,” he added.  The bourse’s revenue relies in part on trading volumes,
which have been subdued as foreign investors trimmed holdings of
riskier assets as  Europe ’s debt crisis deepened. About  227
million shares  were traded in Dubai today, compared with a 12-
month daily average of 159 million shares. The DFM is one of
three bourses operating in the  United Arab Emirates , alongside
Nasdaq Dubai and the Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange.  Two analysts  recommend investors hold the shares while four
advise selling it, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  