-- Dim Sum Go to First From Worst as Western ’13 Pick: China Credit
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-12-27T01:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/dim-sum-go-to-first-from-worst-as-western-13-pick-china-credit.html
Dim Sum bonds transformed into the
best local-currency company notes in Asia this year from the
worst in 2011 and are among the top picks of Western Asset
Management Co. as  China ’s economy rebounds.  Corporate yuan-denominated securities sold outside mainland
China gained 6.2 percent in 2012, more than returns on local
currency company bonds from any other Asian country, according
to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes as of Dec. 24. Dim Sum debt beat
the 4.8 percent on non-government Hong Kong-dollar notes and the
4.7 percent increase in similar corporate debt denominated in
 Singapore ’s currency, the indexes show. The yuan notes lost more
than 2 percent in 2011, the data show.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, raised its 2013 expectations for the world’s second-
largest economy to 8.2 percent, after factory production grew
faster than expected. Western Asset, which managed $10.7 billion
of Asian fixed-income assets as of Sept. 30, expects growth of
between 7 percent and 8 percent, compared with an annual pace of
7.4 percent in the third quarter.  “China will successfully steer through the global head
winds,” Chia-Liang Lian, Singapore-based head of investment
management for Asia excluding  Japan  at Western Asset, said at a
briefing in Hong Kong this month. Dim Sum “bonds are one of
several pockets of value that we feel compelled to exercise as
we go into 2013,” he said.  New World China  Growth is likely to accelerate to 7.8 percent this quarter,
rising from the slowest pace in more than three years in the
previous period, according to the median estimate of 43 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Industrial output climbed 10.1 percent
last month while retail sales increased 14.9 percent, the most
for both measures since March, according to data from the
statistics bureau.  New World China Land Ltd. (917) ’s 8.5 percent yuan bonds due
April 2015, which have the largest weighting in HSBC’s non-
government index for offshore China debt, returned 11.7 percent
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Hong
Kong-based developer of mainland properties is “cautiously
optimistic” about the market in China after earnings rose 2
percent for the year ending June 30, the company said in a
 September  release.  Average property prices may increase 7.8 percent next year,
according to a report last week from  Soufun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the
country’s biggest real estate website owner. The government will
support home buying for use by the purchaser while continuing
curbs on speculation and investment, China’s official news
agency Xinhua reported last week.  Sovereign Dim Sum  Stimulus measures to support China’s economy boosted growth
in East Asia’s emerging nations this year and may continue to do
so in 2013, Bert Hofman, the World Bank’s chief economist for
East Asia and the Pacific region, told Bloomberg Television last
week. Local-currency government bonds from  India ,  Indonesia  and
the Philippines all gained more than 8 percent this year, HSBC’s
gauges show.  The  cost  of insuring China’s debt against non-payment with
credit-default swaps has fallen 82 basis points this year to 65
basis points as of Dec. 26, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The  yuan  has appreciated 1 percent this year, as of Dec.
27, less than predicted in December 2011 but still more than the
Hong Kong dollar, Indian rupee or Indonesian Rupiah. Corporate
Dim Sum notes have returned 8.3 percent in dollar terms as of
Dec. 24, HSBC’s indexes show. Non-government Dim Sum yields fell
68 basis points this year to 4.25 percent.  Sovereign Dim Sum notes returned 1.2 percent compared to
2.8 percent for yuan notes onshore, the indexes show. China’s
10-year domestic  bonds  yielded 3.6 percent on Dec. 26, while
top-rated companies pay 5.29 percent for similar-maturity  debt ,
according to Chinabond indexes.  “Investors are now seeing returns that are actually quite
attractive with the positive backdrop of the Asian economy,”
said Gina Tang, Hong Kong-based head of debt capital markets for
greater China at HSBC. “ Renminbi  appreciation will likely recur
next year and yields from bond issues will probably have room to
trend down from the current levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  