-- Egypt Cancels First Debt Sale After S&P Cut as Pound Weakens
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-12-27T13:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/egypt-cancels-first-debt-sale-after-s-p-cut-as-pound-weakens.html
Egypt  canceled the first debt sale
after a rating cut at Standard & Poor’s raised borrowing costs
and as Fitch Ratings warned against delaying an International
Monetary Fund loan beyond January. The pound weakened the most
in two weeks.  The country had planned to raise 6 billion Egyptian pounds
($969 million) at an auction of six-month and 12-month treasury
bills three days after S&P cut Egypt to the same junk level as
Greece and  Pakistan . Since the Dec. 24 downgrade, the mid-yield
on six-month bills on the secondary market jumped 42 basis
points, or 0.42 percentage point, 13.53 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Egyptian pound, subject to a
managed float, fell 0.3 percent in the same period.  S&P cut Egypt to B-, six steps below investment grade, on
concern escalating political instability will hinder the
nation’s ability to restart the economy. The unrest led Egypt to
ask the IMF to delay its decision on a $4.8 billion loan. Fitch
would become “more concerned” about dwindling foreign reserves
if the deal is delayed beyond January, it said today.  “The government was trying to set a ceiling of 14 percent
on the one-year bills, which was unacceptable for investors
because of the S&P credit rating cut,” Nour Mohei-El-Din,
assistant general manager for treasury at BNP Paribas Egypt,
said by phone.  IMF Delay  On the secondary market, the one-year yield gained eight
basis points to 13.64 percent in the past three days. The
ministry and the central bank typically don’t announce reasons
for debt-sale cancellations. Finance Ministry officials also
weren’t available to comment when contacted by phone and e-mail.  Tension has heightened in the past month as President
Mohamed Mursi, an Islamist politician, pushed ahead with a
constitutional referendum despite concerns from groups such as
the National Salvation Front, which includes Nobel Laureate
Mohamed ElBaradei. Opponents argue the constitution, which
passed with 64 percent of votes, fails to protect basic rights,
a contention its supporters deny.  Egypt asked the IMF to delay its decision, originally
slated for this month, until it can hold dialogue on planned tax
increases linked to the initial deal reached in November. S&P
warned that political rifts could hinder the broad consensus
Egypt needs to implement an IMF program, rendering the program
“inactive.”  ‘Key Month’  Fitch, which rates Egypt four levels below investment grade
at B+, views January as “a key month,” Richard Fox, London-
based head of Middle East and Africa Sovereigns, said by phone.
“The longer that program takes to be approved, then obviously
the more fragile the external financing situation becomes,” he
said. Foreign currency reserves have plunged almost 60 percent
since the uprising that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak .  The yield on the benchmark 5.75 percent dollar bonds due in
April 2020 was little changed at 6 percent, bringing this year’s
drop to 199 basis points. The pound has retreated 1.3 percent in
December, taking its 2012 drop to 2.6 percent. It weakened 0.2
percent, the most since Dec. 13, to 6.1912 a dollar at the close
in Cairo.  The Finance Ministry sold  six-month notes  last week at an
average yield of 13.3 percent and  one-year securities  at 13.54
percent, according to central bank data on Bloomberg.  “It’s natural for investors to demand higher returns after
S&P’s rating downgrade,” Sherif Othman, Cairo-based head of
treasury at Arab Banking Corp., said by phone before the auction
was canceled. “The dispute between the government and
opposition in the absence of dialogue isn’t an encouraging sign
for anyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  