-- Lehman’s Cash Rises to $5.6 Billion Before Creditor Payment
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-12-27T19:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/lehman-s-cash-rises-to-5-6-billion-before-creditor-payment-1-.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which
is due to make a third payment to creditors in March, had
$5.6 billion in free cash on Nov. 30, an increase of $1.1
billion during the month.  Cash that was restricted, or unavailable at Lehman and its
affiliates was $13.7 billion, including $5.8 billion set aside
for disputed claims, according to a post-bankruptcy report filed
in federal court in  Manhattan  yesterday.  The defunct investment bank, which has already paid
creditors half of the $65 billion it aims to pay by 2016 or so,
last month agreed to sell its Archstone Inc. unit for $6.5
billion to AvalonBay Communities Inc. and Sam Zell’s Equity
Residential, scrapping plans for an initial public offering
after a four-month slide in U.S. apartment stocks. Lehman also
has been whittling down claims by some creditors, which would
potentially add cash for distribution.  The average creditor of what was the biggest-ever U.S.
bankruptcy will get about 18 cents on the dollar for an
estimated $370 billion in allowed claims, Lehman has said. The
firm’s September 2008 debts stood at $613 billion.  Additional Bills  Lehman, which paid lawyers and managers almost $1.8 billion
for bankruptcy work, will meet additional bills of $122 million
in one-time fees this month, on top of its regular costs for
post-bankruptcy work, it said.  The December bills include incentives and amounts owed to
professionals that were previously held back, according to the
report filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. A judge last
month approved $42 million in incentive fees for Alvarez &
Marsal LLC, which continues to manage the defunct firm after
making almost $536 million during the bankruptcy.  Overseen by a new board since leaving bankruptcy in March,
Lehman paid advisers and managers $12.8 million in November for
their work during the bankruptcy. About $9.5 million went to
White & Case LLP, the law firm that advised an unofficial group
of creditors, according to the filing.  Lehman settled a fight with creditors in a payment plan
that allotted more money to derivatives claimants including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and less to bondholders such as Paulson
& Co. Both groups had proposed rival plans to pay Lehman’s debt.  Fee Bill  Lehman’s fee bill for post-bankruptcy work was $27.9
million in November, including $13.2 million for lead law firm
Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP and $5.2 million for A&M. Total fees
since March were $126.1 million. Including back bills for
bankruptcy work and bills for the continuing liquidation,
November’s fee tally was $40.7 million.  Lehman, once the fourth-largest investment bank, is still
liquidating from offices in Manhattan’s Time & Life Building.
Hedge funds and other traders turn over an average of $2 billion
of claims on Lehman a month, or $100 billion from September 2008
through November 2012, according to SecondMarket Holdings Inc.  Lehman, run by Chief Executive Officer Richard Fuld when
its collapse helped bring on the worst economic slump since the
Great Depression, failed because of too much debt and risky real
estate investments, according to a bankruptcy examiner’s report.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  