-- Einhorn’s Greenlight May Lose $67.6 Million on Marvell
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-12-27T20:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/einhorn-s-greenlight-may-lose-67-6-million-on-marvell.html
Greenlight Capital Inc.,  David Einhorn ’s New York-based hedge fund, may have lost as much as
$67.6 million from its stake in  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  as
the shares tumbled over the past two days, according to
regulatory filings.  Marvell fell 4.1 percent today, after slumping 10 percent
yesterday, following a verdict from a federal jury in Pittsburgh
ordering the maker of chips for computers and mobile phones to
pay a $1.17 billion award for infringing Carnegie Mellon patents
covering integrated circuits. It was the fourth-largest U.S.
patent verdict ever, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Greenlight held 32.7 million shares of Hamilton, Bermuda-
based Marvell, valued at $299.6 million as of Sept. 30, making
it the company’s third-largest shareholder, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The holding is valued at $232 million
today, assuming Greenlight didn’t reduce or increase its stake
since the last filing.  Einhorn said on a July 31 conference call that Marvell was
poised to rebound after falling since the end of March, when the
shares were trading at $15.73, more than twice today’s price. He
said the company, along with General Motors Co., trades at low
valuations relative to earnings and has “strong cash
positions.” Marvell has tumbled 37 percent since Einhorn’s
remarks.  Carnegie Mellon  sued over use of the two patents, issued in
2001 and 2002, that cover ways to detect data stored on a
computer’s hard-disk drive by filtering out noise or unwanted
electrical signals. The school in a March 6 complaint said at
least nine types of Marvell’s circuits use its inventions.  Marvell said today that it hasn’t recorded any liability on
its financial statements for the lawsuit.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Greenlight, declined
to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  