-- Emerging Stocks Rise for a Fourth Day as Chinese Profits Improve
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-27T22:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/emerging-stocks-rise-for-fourth-day-led-by-technology-companies.html
Emerging-market equities advanced
for a fourth day, led by technology companies, as China’s
industrial profits increased and U.S. lawmakers seek to resolve
a budget impasse.  BYD Co. (1211) , the Chinese carmaker partly owned by  Warren
Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , climbed to an eight-month
high in Hong Kong after saying it plans to build a solar power
plant.  HTC Corp. (2498)  advanced to the strongest level in three months
in Taipei.  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) ,  Turkey ’s biggest
mobile company, gained as the country’s benchmark index rose to
a record.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Latin America’s largest  oil
company  by market value, led declines in Sao Paulo.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.3 percent to
1,049.45 in  New York , its biggest gain in a week. Net income at
Chinese industrial companies increased 22.8 percent to 638.5
billion  yuan  ($102 billion) in November from a year earlier,
according to government data today. The U.S. House of
Representatives will meet on the evening of Dec. 30 as the
deadline nears to avoid more than $600 billion in tax increases
and spending cuts scheduled to take effect Jan. 1.  “The fiscal cliff worries have people concerned about the
U.S much more than emerging markets,” Jonathan Masse, a senior
portfolio manager at Baochuan Capital Management LLC, said by
phone from Walnut Creek,  California . “It’s kind of like a
reverse flight to safety.” Economic data from China “is
certainly reassuring investors as well,” he said.  MSCI’s emerging-market gauge has risen 15 percent this
year, beating a 13 percent increase by the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)  The
developing-nations index trades at 12 times estimated profit,
compared with the MSCI World’s 13.7 multiple, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Record High  The Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index advanced for
a fourth day, rising 0.6 percent to a record. The index has
rallied since Turkey was raised to investment grade by  Fitch
Ratings  on Nov. 5. Turkcell added 3.1 percent, the biggest gain
in three months, while power utility  Zorlu Enerji Elektrik
Uretim AS (ZOREN)  climbed 2.7 percent to the highest price in four
months.  Benchmark indexes in Argentina and Colombia rose. Brazil’s
 Bovespa Index (IBOV)  lost 0.9 percent, retreating for a third day.
Petrobras, as the state-owned oil company is known, dropped 3.2
percent after  Valor Economico  reported that it’s losing money by
offering natural gas below cost.  Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3) , the Brazilian maker of generic forms of the
drugs Valium and Claritin, added 1.9 percent to the highest in
two months. Brazil’s inflation was slower than projected,
spurring speculation that the central bank will hold borrowing
costs at record lows.  Micex Retreats  Indexes in  Taiwan , South Korea, Poland and Romania climbed.
Russia’s Micex Index was little changed as manufacturing in the
country stalled for the first time in 15 months in December and
the industry stumbled for the steepest drop in four years, HSBC
Holdings Plc said.  OAO Pharmstandard, Russia’s largest drugmaker, advanced 5.6
percent, the most since Oct. 1. The Russian government plans to
limit state imports of foreign pharmaceuticals to stimulate
domestic production,  Vedomosti  reported today, citing draft
decrees by the  Economy Ministry .  The Russian ruble strengthened for a second day, gaining
0.9 percent against the dollar, and South Africa’s rand rose 1.1
percent.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, added 0.6
percent to 43.54. The ETF has risen 15 percent this year. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange  Emerging Markets  ETF Volatility
Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and expectations
of price swings, lost 2.1 percent to 21.26.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 3 basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 270, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Information Technology Index
advanced 0.8 percent, leading gains among 10 industry groups in
the broader gauge. The MSCI Emerging Markets Energy Index was
the only decliner, falling 0.2 percent.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  gained 0.7 percent
after a two-day holiday. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.6
percent from a five-month high. The Philippine Stock Exchange
Index dropped 0.7 percent from a record after the government
imposed limits on currency-forward positions.  BYD jumped 4.8 percent to the highest close since April 20.
The Chinese carmaker partly owned byBuffett’s Berkshire
Hathaway agreed with the government of Yulin to develop a 500-
megawatt solar power plant in the city in China’s northwestern
province of Shaanxi.  ‘Increasing Confidence’  “Asian markets are higher today likely due to increasing
confidence that China’s industrial engine is building in
momentum,” Geoffrey Ng, who helps oversee $1.8 billion as chief
executive officer at Hong Leong Asset Management Bhd. in Kuala
Lumpur, wrote in a text message. “This supports China’s export
base which many Asian countries are dependent on from a supply
chain perspective.”  Huaneng Power International Inc. (902)  advanced 2.9 percent in
 Hong Kong . China’s power generating industry reported 62.9
percent growth in profits in the January-November period from a
year earlier.  HTC Corp. climbed 5.9 percent for its highest close since
Sept. 26. Its HTC Butterfly J phone rose one spot in Japan’s
rankings to No. 10 in the Dec. 17 to Dec. 23 sales period, CNA
reported, citing researcher BCN.  LG Display Co. (034220)  rallied 3.7 percent in  Seoul , the most since
Nov. 20, after Shinhan Investment Corp. said today that the
company may post higher-than-expected operating profit in the
fourth quarter.  KT Corp. (030200)  and  SK Telecom Co. (SKM)  led declines among developing-
nation equities as the stocks trade without the rights to final
dividends.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  