-- Tencent Turns to WeChat to Defend China Turf Against Sina: Tech
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-28T10:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/tencent-turns-to-wechat-to-defend-china-turf-against-sina-tech.html
Just two years ago next month,
 Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  introduced a mobile instant-message
application called WeChat. It already has 200 million users,
including Lai Jingkui, a teacher in  China ’s southern Zhuhai
city, who uses the “Drift Bottle” function to find friends.  While Lai, 23, is still looking, Tencent has found a hit.
 WeChat ’s user base could double to 400 million within three
years, providing the chance for China’s biggest Internet company
to boost revenue by adding mobile e-commerce and location-based
advertising, Core Pacific-Yamaichi International (H.K.) Ltd.
estimates.  That’s welcome news for Shenzhen-based Tencent, which this
year faces its second-slowest annual  profit growth  since it
listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 2004. The problem: a
shift in Internet usage from personal computers to smartphones
and tablets.  The trend is pulling users away from Tencent’s offerings
toward competitors like  Sina (SINA)  Corp.’s Twitter-like Weibo
microblog, which built a user base of 424 million as of
September. Sina is projected by analysts to turn from a loss to
a profit in 2012, and  net income growth  next year is estimated
to be more than double Tencent’s.  Tencent is counting on WeChat to close the gap.  “Implementation of WeChat will help Tencent get into a new
growth stage, as the company has traditionally relied on online
games,” said Kevin Tam, an analyst at Core Pacific-Yamaichi in
 Hong Kong . “WeChat can replace online games as a growth driver
in coming years.”  Tam projects the free WeChat app will begin contributing to
sales in 2013. He hasn’t forecast the amount of sales yet.  Online Games  Tencent, founded in Shenzhen in 1998 with an instant-
messaging service called QQ, started its QQ Game Portal in 2003.
For the past decade, online games such as “Dungeon & Fighter”
and “Cross Fire” propelled Tencent’s growth and contributed  56
percent of revenue  in 2011. Now, casual gaming on smartphones
and tablets is eating into the growth of gaming on PCs.  Tencent’s net income is projected to increase 24 percent to
12.6 billion  yuan  ($2 billion) this year, according to the
average of 19  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
down from 27 percent in 2011, and less than half the 56 percent
profit growth in 2010. It would be the slowest pace since a 9
percent gain in 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Outpace Tencent  Meanwhile, Sina is projected to rebound from a loss and
post a net income of $25.7 million in 2012, according to the
average of 17 analysts’ estimates. In 2013, growth in profit
will outpace Tencent’s projected 28 percent pace, rising 64
percent to $42 million, according to the estimates. Sina’s
market capitalization is $3.1 billion, compared with Tencent’s
$59.7 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  As people spend less time with their PCs, WeChat, known as
Weixin in Chinese, gives Tencent a way to capture the explosive
increase in the use of tablets and smartphones.  Despite its early lead in the mobile shift, Sina’s
advertising-driven business model ultimately won’t keep pace
with Tencent’s e-commerce capability, said Cynthia Meng, a Hong
Kong-based analyst with Jefferies Group Inc.  “Sina’s mobile traffic is large, but we’re talking about
positioning for mobile monetization,” Meng said. “The first
opportunities in mobile will come from games and mobile
commerce,” at which Tencent has a distinct advantage, she said.  Tencent gained 60 percent in Hong Kong trading this year,
surpassing the 23 percent gain in the  Hang Seng Index . Sina
shares have declined 9 percent in  New York .  New Friends  Its core functions allow WeChat users to send text, image
or audio messages. The audio message function is similar to an
application from WhatsApp Inc. WeChat’s photo-sharing function
called “Moments” operates with a timeline and cover-photo
layout similar to that of  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which had more than 1
billion monthly active members as of Sept. 30, including 604
million mobile users. The app’s video conferencing ability is
likened to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Skype.  Twitter Inc.’s messaging and social media service had more
than 200 million monthly active users, the San Francisco-based
company said on its website Dec. 18. Sites of Twitter and
Facebook are both officially blocked in China.  WeChat goes beyond those functions for keeping up with
existing friends, providing ways to connect with new ones. The
“Drift Bottle” function lets a user throw or pick up a random
audio or text message. The interface has a picture of a stretch
of beach under a blue sky, where users can pick up a bottle as a
virtual hot air balloon drifts overhead. The user can respond to
the message or throw it back.  ‘Killer App’  Lai said he likes to use “Drift Bottle” daily even though
it hasn’t led to any meaningful new friendships yet.  “It’s very unlikely for me to keep in touch with people I
meet using the ‘Drift Bottle,’” Lai said. “People usually just
send back one response and the conversation ends there.”  While the bottles go at random to any user around the
world, there’s also a way to meet people closer by with a
function called “Look Around” that shows who’s using the app
in the vicinity. Users who meet each other this way can exchange
contacts wirelessly by shaking their phones.  “WeChat is a killer app,” said Alicia Yap a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Barclays Plc. “WeChat seems to capture human
behavior. Once people use it, and all their friends use it, they
need to continue to use it.”  Right now Tencent is “much more focused” on building
WeChat’s user base, rather than deciding how to make money from
it, President Martin Lau said on a Nov. 14 conference call.  Making Money  “Monetization from WeChat can come in a similar way as PC
Internet,” Lau said on the call. “You can have certain
elements of entertainment, you can have certain elements of
advertising and you can have certain elements of transactions.”  The  Internet company  declined to make Lau available for an
interview for this story. Tencent has “no plans for
monetization in near term” for WeChat, it said in an e-mailed
reply to questions from Bloomberg News.  Still, it will not take long for Tencent to begin deriving
revenue from WeChat, and the company will probably begin when
users reach about 300 million, said Thomas Chong, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at BOCI Research Limited. Chong said he hasn’t
included any revenue from WeChat in his estimates yet because
it’s “too hard to quantify at this stage.”  Tencent could monetize WeChat in several ways, including
in-app advertising, fee-based content and premium features, and
indirectly through the integration of other Tencent services,
said Justin Weiss, an analyst at JI  Asia  in  Tokyo .  “The company recently said that it would add its TenPay
online payment services into WeChat by the end of January,”
Weiss said. “The move would open the door to a variety of e-
commerce-related options.”  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  