-- EPA Chief Jackson to Leave U.S. Agency Early in 2013
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-12-27T20:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/epa-chief-jackson-to-leave-obama-cabinet-early-in-2013.html
Lisa Jackson  said she will step down
as head of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency after four
years during which she led the first efforts to curb carbon-
dioxide emissions to combat global-warming risks.  “I will leave the EPA confident the ship is sailing in the
right direction,” Jackson, 50, said today in a statement from
the agency. Her plan is to depart after the president’s  State of
the Union  speech next year.  Under Jackson, the EPA negotiated stricter fuel-efficiency
standards with automakers and proposed the first-ever rules for
mercury pollution and carbon emissions at  power plants , often
triggering protests from industry and Republicans in Congress.
Jackson, the first black person to head the 18,000-employee
agency, also pushed to ensure that poor and minority groups
don’t bear the brunt of environmental pollution.  “Over the last four years, Lisa Jackson has shown an
unwavering commitment to the health of our families and our
children,” President  Barack Obama  said in a statement. “Under
her leadership, the EPA has taken sensible and important steps
to protect the air we breathe and the water we drink.”  Possible successors include Bob Perciasepe, the agency’s
No. 2 official;  Heather Zichal , the top White House aide for
energy and environment;  Gina McCarthy , the EPA assistant
administrator for air pollution; and Dan Esty, the top
environmental regulator in Connecticut and a former Yale
University professor, environmental advocates said.  Replacements Sought  Obama, re-elected last month, is seeking replacements for
agency and department heads who have indicated they won’t serve
in a second term, such as Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta . Obama
last week nominated Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts
Democrat, to succeed  Hillary Rodham Clinton , who said she plans
to leave the post of secretary of State. Jackson didn’t say what
her plans were.  Health and environmental groups have praised Jackson for
taking up rules that were delayed or weakened under the previous
administration, while Republicans in Congress complained that
the EPA’s efforts were choking off the still-struggling  U.S.
economy .  Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican and
chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee that has
challenged the agency’s rules, last year said Jackson would need
her own parking space on Capitol Hill because he planned to call
her so often to testify.  House Fails  Republicans unsuccessfully sought to overturn by
legislation the greenhouse-gas curbs. As head of the EPA,
Jackson often bore the brunt of their complaints about “job
killing” regulations from  Washington .  She disclosed her plans amid fresh Republican criticism.
Upton wrote Jackson a letter this month questioning her use of
an e-mail alias for internal correspondence, saying such
“secondary e-mail accounts” may make it harder for the
committee to conduct adequate oversight of agency decisions. The
EPA has said other administrators used aliases to communicate
within the agency because public e-mail accounts get inundated
with messages.  The agency’s Office of Inspector General said this month it
is investigating the issue.  A New Orleans native, Jackson was able to charm some of the
agency’s critics, who today praised her as an honest and
effective communicator even as they criticized the policies she
advanced.  ‘Receptivity, Accessibility’  “Lisa Jackson and I disagreed on many issues and
regulations while she headed the EPA; however, I have always
appreciated her receptivity to my concerns, her accessibility
and her honesty,” Senator  James Inhofe , the Oklahoma Republican
who has called climate change a hoax, said in a statement. “I
truly wish her the best and thank her for her service in state
and federal government.”  Jackson kept a framed holiday card from Inhofe on her EPA
office shelf. She started at the EPA as a scientist in 1987 and
worked in the agency’s New York regional office. Jackson, who
has a master’s degree in chemical engineering from  Princeton
University , joined the New Jersey Department of Environmental
Protection in 2002 and became the agency’s commissioner in 2006.  Scott Segal , a utility lobbyist and director for the
Electric Reliability Coordinating Council, a Washington-based
industry group, said Jackson’s EPA presided over some of the
most expensive and controversial rules in its history.  Coal, Fuels  “Agency rules have been used as blunt attempts to
marginalize coal and other solid fossil fuels and to make motor
fuels more costly at the expense of industrial jobs, energy
security, and economic recovery,” Segal said in an e-mail.  He credited Jackson for her “likable personality” and her
“skilled use of political leverage.”  Environmental groups praised Jackson’s tenure at the EPA.  Frank O’Donnell , president of Washington-based Clean Air
Watch, called her a “champion” for clean air. He credited
Jackson for backing new restrictions on greenhouse-gas emissions
and for strong standards over mercury and other emissions from
coal power plants.  O’Donnell said Perciasepe is her “most likely” successor.  Jackson had setbacks, such as the 2011 White House decision
to block the EPA from updating smog standards, O’Donnell said in
an e-mail today.  The administration’s effort to pass broad climate-change
legislation also failed under opposition from Republicans and
industrial-state Democrats in the Senate, leaving the EPA to
shoulder responsibility for greenhouse-gas curbs on its own.  Frances Beinecke , president of the  Natural Resources
Defense Council  in New York, said Jackson is a fierce proponent
for public health and the environment.  “Every American is better off today than when she took
office nearly four years ago,” Beinecke said today in a
statement. “Lisa leaves giant shoes to fill.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  