-- Teva’s Record Retreat on Outlook Signals Buy to Gabelli
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-12-27T23:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/teva-s-record-retreat-signals-buy-to-gabelli-israel-overnight.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s largest maker of generic drugs, will rebound from
the lowest valuations among peers in 2013 as concern about
revenue growth eases, Gabelli & Co. said.  American depositary receipts of Teva fell 1.3 percent to
$36.95 yesterday in New York, extending their slump this year to
8.5 percent. The ADRs are poised for a third annual decline, the
longest rout on record. The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of
the largest New-York traded Israeli companies dropped for a
fifth day with  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  leading the retreat.  Teva, based in Petach Tikva, Israel, has lost 13 percent
since Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Levin failed to alleviate
investors’ concerns about the company’s outlook as he unveiled
on Dec. 11 a plan to replace revenue from branded drugs set to
lose patent protection in the next three years. The plunge sent
valuations to 6.9 times estimated earnings, the lowest multiple
among the world’s 20 biggest drug companies, which have an
average price-earnings ratio of 13.6.  “From a valuation standpoint, Teva is certainly very
attractive,” Kevin Kedra, an analyst at Gabelli who has a buy
rating on the shares, said by phone yesterday from Rye, New
York. “Levin has been able to reset the bar lower, so meeting
or exceeding those hurdles in the first two quarters would help
build his credibility and bring back investors.”  Teva’s shares in  Israel  dropped 1.6 percent yesterday to
138.5 shekels, or the equivalent of $37.15 as Tel Aviv’s  TA-25
Index (TA-25)  slipped 0.2 percent to 1,184.12. The Bloomberg Israel-US
Equity Index fell 0.6 percent 85, a five-week low.  Discounted Valuation  The company trades at a discount to  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the
world’s biggest maker of consumer health products, valued at
13.8 times estimated earnings and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , at 14.6
times. The company is also cheaper than generic rivals  Mylan
Inc. (MYL) , at 10.6 times estimated earnings, and  Watson
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  at 15.1 times.  Levin, who took over the CEO job at Teva in May after
rising to senior vice president for strategy at  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) , has vowed to develop new branded drugs to compensate
for a potential decline in sales of Copaxone, the company’s
best-selling multiple sclerosis treatment. Drugs that combat
respiratory and central nervous system illnesses were two areas
he highlighted.  Copaxone faces competition from newer oral medicines to
treat MS and is set to lose patent protection by 2015. The
treatment generated $1.05 billion in sales in the third quarter,
amounting to 21 percent of total revenue.  Analysts Downgrade  Following the Dec. 11 meeting, Leerink Swann & Co. cut its
rating to market perform from outperform, citing a “challenging
revenue outlook,” and  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  removed the
shares from its priority stock list.  Seeking to enter new markets, Teva said on Dec. 16 that it
formed a business venture with  Handok Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd. (002390) 
in South Korea. Teva will hold a controlling stake with 51
percent of profits.  Levin lowered sales and profit projections for 2013 in
November, a move that Kedra said would make it easier to beat
analyst projections. Revenue will be between $19.5 billion and
$20.5 billion, and earnings excluding some costs will be $4.85
to $5.15 a share, Teva said in a statement.  “Levin has a good track record in developing new drugs, so
the feeling at this point is, let’s see what this new CEO can do
to boost revenue,” Kedra said.  Nova Measuring  Cellcom, Israel’s biggest mobile phone provider, lost 5.3
percent to $8.07 after shares in Tel Aviv fell 3.9 percent to
31.12 shekels, or $8.35.  Nova Measuring Instruments Ltd. (NVMI) , the developer of measuring
systems for the semiconductor industry, slipped 0.8 percent to
$7.94. Shares in Tel Aviv dropped 1.6 percent to 30 shekels, or
the equivalent of $8.05.  Chief Executive Officer Gabi Seligsohn said yesterday that
the Ness-Ziona, Israel-based company is considering acquisitions
and has $90 million in cash.  “We have been looking at a variety of opportunities for
acquisitions for hardware companies with a software component,”
Seligsohn said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Tel Aviv offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 Eobrien6@bloomberg.net  