-- Exxon to Sempra Can Export Half of U.S. Home Gas Supply: Energy
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-12-27T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/exxon-to-sempra-can-export-half-of-u-s-home-gas-supply-energy.html
Natural gas suppliers from  Sempra
Energy (SRE)  to  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  are fighting for the first U.S.
export permits after a study said selling some of the fuel to
Asia will benefit the economy more than consuming it
domestically.  They could win approval for projects to ship about 6
billion cubic feet a day of liquefied natural gas by 2025,
according to estimates by consultants including Tudor Pickering
Holt & Co. That amount of LNG would supply about half the
current U.S. residential market and is worth $93 million a day
at Japan’s current import price, a global benchmark.  The government-sponsored study released Dec. 5 gave a green
light to exports, saying they shouldn’t delay North America’s
possible energy independence in coming decades based on shale
discoveries. Companies from Exxon to  Dominion Resources Inc. (D)  are
rushing to get export permits in time to take advantage of the
lower production price in the U.S. compared with other markets.  “The reality is that LNG projects are quite difficult to
deliver,” Elizabeth Spomer, a senior vice president of business
development for Reading, England-based gas producer  BG Group
Plc (BG/) , said in a statement. “This is due to a host of factors --
from regulatory obstacles to the challenges associated with
financing and construction.”  The 6 billion cubic feet a day estimate represents about a
fifth of the projects that companies are proposing, measured by
LNG capacity, as regulatory hurdles and competition limit
building.  Foreign Buyers  The opportunity relies largely on expectations that foreign
buyers will continue to pay more for the fuel in years to come.  Japan paid an average of $16.92 per million British thermal
units for LNG through October, when prices sank to a 16-month
low of $15.52, and a record $18.07 in July, Japanese Finance
Ministry data show.  In contrast, U.S. gas futures traded in New York hit a 10-
year low in April of less than $2 per mmBtu. The price, which
rebounded as the year progressed, is set to end 2012 below $4.  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) ’s Sabine Pass project is the only
winner so far of full U.S. approval for an LNG export terminal
outside of  Alaska . The facility is planned for  Cameron Parish ,
 Louisiana . The Houston-based company is working to have initial
production by 2015, kicking off LNG exports from the Gulf.  Decisions on the remaining export applications, which bring
the combined proposals to a capacity of more than 29 billion
cubic feet a day, are still months away. Reviews must be
completed, and financing and construction will require years
more before exports flow.  Domestic Prices  That could give competing LNG projects planned from
Australia to Mozambique time to sign up buyers first.  The  study , conducted by  NERA Economic Consulting , found
that the U.S. would see net economic benefits from exporting
LNG, with the gains rising as exports increase. Exports may
boost domestic prices by more than $1 per thousand cubic
feet in coming years, NERA said. The benefits will more than
offset the effect of higher prices for U.S. consumers that may
be triggered by reduced domestic supply.  The U.S. Energy Department has set priorities for its
permit reviews, listing projects in the order they’ll be
assessed. Projects at the top have a competitive edge, as they
have a better chance of getting under way before the global LNG
market becomes saturated with competing projects, analysts from
UBS AG said in a Dec. 18 report.  ‘Huge Plus’  Freeport LNG’s initial phase of a Texas project is first in
 line  for review among proposals to export LNG to non-free trade
countries, according to the department’s website, followed by
 Energy Transfer Equity LP (ETE) ’s Lake Charles proposal in Louisiana
and Dominion’s Cove Point project in Maryland. The Golden Pass
project in Texas, backed  Qatar Petroleum  and Exxon, is last in
line at No. 15.  Being first on the list is “a huge plus for us,” said
John Tobola, general counsel at Houston-based Freeport LNG.
Freeport may begin exports in 2017, with an initial application
for 1.4 billion cubic feet a day of capacity.  Projects planned as expansions of existing import
facilities may have the smoothest paths to getting the necessary
permits. Adding on was the approach at Cheniere’s approved
Sabine Pass export plan in Louisiana. It’s also the model being
pursued by such would-be U.S. LNG exporters as Freeport, Exxon,
Sempra,  Energy Transfer  and Dominion.  Getting Customers  Still, the test of any project is whether it can lock up
enough customers to buy LNG and get financing from banks or
partners for the capital needed to construct multibillion-dollar
plants. In August, Cheniere’s Sabine Pass project gave a notice
to proceed on construction of two liquefaction units, with a
project cost of about $5.6 billion.  Projects in states such as Oregon could face greater
environmental challenges than terminals proposed for the  Gulf
Coast , where energy infrastructure already exists and residents
are more familiar with the oil and gas industry.  LNG exports would offer added revenue to businesses in the
U.S., NERA said in the report. The average annual increase in
revenue from LNG exports ranges from less than $3 billion to
more than $30 billion, depending on the scenario used for
project approvals, according to the study.  Even so, the government probably will move slowly and
carefully, said  Kevin Book , a managing director at ClearView
Energy Partners LLC in  Washington .  BG Buying  Ken Medlock, an energy fellow at  Rice University  in
Houston, said he sees no more than 7 billion cubic feet of daily
export capacity being built by 2025, and less than half of that
capacity may get used on a regular basis.  BG expects “a limited number of projects will be built in
the U.S.,” with sites near the  Gulf of Mexico  that expand
existing facilities having an advantage in cost and local
support, Spomer said. BG has agreed to buy 5.5 million metric
tons a year from Cheniere’s Sabine Pass facility. The company
also will supply gas for Energy Transfer’s Lake Charles export
project in Louisiana and then market the LNG.  Dominion, which is proposing to export as much as 1 billion
cubic feet a day from Maryland, believes its location will bring
added diversity in the event a hurricane disrupts processing in
the Gulf region, said Dan Donovan, a spokesman. The Richmond,
Virginia-based company expects 6 billion to 8 billion cubic feet
a day of LNG export projects will be built in coming years, he
said.  ‘Real’ Projects  The endorsement of the LNG study was crucial in signaling
the government may be friendlier to the projects. It also can
provide reassurance to potential overseas customers, who were
examining other options in case the U.S. didn’t turn out to be a
reliable gas provider, Octavio Simoes, president of LNG
operations at Sempra, said in a phone interview. Sempra is
working on the Cameron export project that has signed up buyers
and is planning to open in Louisiana in 2017, with government
approvals possible next year.  Sempra thinks the Energy Department will “address those
projects that are more real, that have signed commercial
contracts with parties, that have parties that have the
capability to develop these projects,” Simoes said. He
estimated 5 billion to 6 billion cubic feet a day of U.S. LNG
export capability may be built in coming years through three to
five projects.  Oil and gas companies this month applauded the LNG study.
It “reminds us all that we have every reason to be confident in
the benefits of free trade,” Ken Cohen, vice president of
public and government affairs at Irving, Texas-based Exxon, said
in a Dec. 9 blog post.  Political Considerations  Political considerations can still affect how projects are
viewed and whether they’re approved. Some lawmakers may seek to
curb gas exports, reducing potential effects of higher prices on
consumers and companies that rely on the fuel.  U.S. Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts
Democrat, has said more information is needed before the U.S.
can be confident that large-scale LNG exports are in the
nation’s interest.  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  Chief Executive Officer
Mark Papa said he expects to see some U.S. exports, though “the
federal government will probably put a limit on it.”  In Alaska, dwindling regional gas supplies have forced
 ConocoPhillips (COP) , operator of the only U.S. LNG export plant, to
idle it for much of the past year.  Government Reviews  Ultimately, the number of export terminals built “will be
determined by the market’s appetite” for sales agreements and
not by a specific quantity set by the Energy Department, UBS
analysts said. Some government reviews may stretch for possibly
two years as the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  considers
environmental issues, UBS said, adding that the Energy
Department may have political considerations.  Worldwide demand, meanwhile, will limit how much U.S.
prices can rise because the gas won’t be attractive to buyers if
it costs more than other supplies, according to NERA’s report.  “The global market for LNG is what will be the final
determinant of how many of these projects go forward,” said
Mary Barcella, director of North American natural gas for IHS
CERA in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  