-- Finally, an Effort to Calculate the Economic Value of Art
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-27T23:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/finally-an-effort-to-calculate-the-economic-value-of-art.html
It is easy to think of art as a
luxury. It enriches our minds and lives, and it allows us to
express ourselves to the fullest, yet it is not essential to
brute survival. We value it, but beyond all measure. Art is
priceless.  Perhaps these are reasons that assessments of economic
activity often simply overlook the art world.  Consider, though, a few cold calculations: Americans spend
about $14.5 billion a year on the performing arts alone --
everything from opera, dance and symphony concerts to circuses,
magic acts and Las Vegas shows -- a  2011 study  by the National
Endowment for the Arts found.  And according to data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis,
a branch of the U.S. Commerce Department, in 2009, the
performing arts, together with museums and sports activities
(the bureau has traditionally grouped these into one sector),
 contributed  $70.9 billion to the U.S. gross domestic product. In
that same year, the motion-picture and sound-recording
industries added $59.8 billion, and publishing contributed
$147.7 billion.  In other words, art does have a dollar value -- it’s just
one that analysts haven’t fully added up. So it is welcome news
that the bureau will now measure the creative sector’s specific
effects on the macroeconomy. Thanks to a new partnership with
the National Endowment, bureau researchers will make hard
measurements of how much artistic and cultural activities
contribute to GDP.  Drawing from all good sources of data, governmental and
private, BEA researchers will assess the number of people
working in the performing arts, at museums, in book publishing,
at architectural firms -- every nook of the creative world. They
will dig into the details on how much each part of the art world
is growing or contracting, and how they all contribute to the
economies of individual states.  For instance, a preliminary study has found that performing
arts contribute more value to states with large and diverse
economies than to smaller states. In  California ,  Colorado ,
 Georgia ,  Texas  and New Jersey, every additional dollar generated
by the performing-arts industry adds $1.25 or more to gross
state product. In  Wyoming  and South Dakota, in contrast, each
dollar contributes only about 86 cents. That’s because in the
less-populated states, many things need to be imported from
elsewhere -- lighting, sound equipment, scenery, curtains -- for
the show to go on.  Even if the effect is greater in more populous places,
artistic efforts consistently stimulate the local economy. This
lends some evidence to the discussion about whether  innovation
and new ideas  can contribute to economic growth at least as much
as the investment of additional capital does. Such debates will
be enriched by the new and better data to come.  No doubt economists and scholars of all kinds will find
many other ways to puzzle over the numbers as they come in. It’s
safe to assume that, in general, the hard data will demonstrate
that art is a bigger  economic player  than we thought.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 