-- Citigroup Among 5 Banks Fined Over Muni-Bond Lobbying Costs
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-12-27T19:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/finra-fines-five-banks-including-citigroup-goldman-on-lobbying.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America
Corp.’s  Merrill Lynch are among five firms that will pay $4.48
million to settle regulatory claims they used funds from
municipal and state bond deals to pay lobbyists.  Local authorities were unfairly asked to reimburse payments
that the firms made over five years to the California Public
Securities Association, a lobbying group, to help influence the
state, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which
oversees securities firms, said today in a  statement . The firms
inadequately described the fees, wrapping them into bond-
underwriting expenses, Finra said.  Underwriters that fund bond-authorization campaigns and
then collect fees from approved debt sales are among unresolved
pay-to-play issues in the $3.7 trillion municipal market. Hiring
an underwriter based on whether it supports a campaign rather
than its ability to market bonds can lead to mispricing, which
can hurt investors, as well as higher fees and borrowing costs.  “The script remains the same,” said  Marilyn Cohen ,
founder of Envision Capital Management Inc. in  Los Angeles ,
which oversees about $210 million of munis. “I’m not surprised
-- my surprise is they found it. That’s just the cost of doing
business. It’s all pay-to-play.”  ‘Money Back’  The banks, also including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Morgan Stanley, agreed to pay $3.35
million in fines and reimburse certain California bond issuers
$1.13 million, according to the statement. Citigroup’s $1.28
million in sanctions were the largest, followed by Merrill’s
$1.07 million.  Citigroup and 16 other underwriters also reimbursed
California $2.3 million last year after a regulatory probe found
they used taxpayer funds to pay fees to their lobbyists. The
practice was “improper, it will stop now, it will not happen
again, and we will get our money back,”  California  Treasurer
Bill Lockyer said in February, 2011.  “We are pleased by this action,” Bill Ainsworth, a
spokesman for Lockyer, said of today’s Finra statement.  “It sends a message that it is wrong for underwriters to
charge taxpayers for lobbying and political activities,”
Ainsworth said in an e-mail. “We are glad other California
issuers are getting compensated.”  The five banks violated the Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board’s fair-dealing and supervisory rules, according to the
statement. The Alexandria, Virginia-based MSRB, a self-
regulatory body that sets guidelines for the muni market, has
banned would-be underwriters from giving to most campaigns for
elected officials who could influence the award of bond sales.  Smaller Underwriters  Making such contributions is more widespread among smaller
underwriters, according to disclosure filings with the
rulemaking board.  Banks have been divided over whether they should be allowed
to support drives in favor of referendums authorizing debt
issues that they later underwrite. Some say it creates the
appearance of undue influence, while others say it merely helps
issuers win the votes and finance needed projects.  The lobbying payments that resulted in today’s sanctions
spanned 2006 through 2010, according to Finra. The companies
didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  Lobbying Fees  Goldman Sachs “discontinued the longstanding industrywide
practice of seeking reimbursement for such fees” in California
last year, the bank said in a statement. It also refunded the
lobby-group fees that had been charged on state-level issuances
in which the firm was lead underwriter.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is “pleased to have resolved this issue in
a satisfactory manner,” Mark Lake, a spokesman for the New
York-based company, said in an e-mailed statement. Spokesmen for
New York-based Citigroup and  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America also said the firms were pleased to resolve the
issue. A spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan didn’t
immediately respond to messages seeking comment.  “Issuers are entitled to know what they are paying for and
why,” Brad Bennett, Finra’s chief of enforcement, said in the
statement. “It was unfair for these underwriters to pass along
the costs of their Cal PSA membership to the municipal and state
bond taxpayers, neglecting to disclose that these costs were
unrelated to the bond deals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in Chicago at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  