-- Ex-Yankee Hideki Matsui Retires From Baseball After 20 Seasons
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-28T05:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/former-yankees-outfielder-hideki-matsui-retires-from-baseball.html
Hideki Matsui retired from baseball
after a 20-year career in  Japan  and the U.S., where he played
seven of his 10 seasons with the  New York Yankees  and was the
Most Valuable Player in their most recent  World Series  win.  Matsui, 38, hit 175 Major League Baseball home runs since
coming to the U.S. in 2003, the most for any Japanese player.  “He was the type of player and person you want young fans
of this game to emulate,” Yankees General Manager  Brian Cashman 
said in a statement. “He played with pride, discipline and of
course talent, and flourished when the lights were at their
brightest. People naturally gravitated towards him, and that’s a
direct reflection of his character.”  Matsui, who played with the Yankees from 2003-09, said at a
news conference yesterday in  New York  that his production the
past two seasons was limited by knee injuries. He played 34
games with the  Tampa Bay Rays  last season before being released
in August. In Matsui’s last full season, with the  Oakland
Athletics  in 2011, he hit .251 with 12 homers and 72 RBI.  “From around five years ago, both of my knees hadn’t been
doing too well,” said Matsui, who ends his major-league career
with a .282 batting average. “Even after going through surgery
my physical condition wasn’t at its best.”  ‘Impressive’  Matsui was a nine-time All-Star and three-time MVP in
Japan’s Central League before coming to New York, where he drove
in more than 100 runs in four of his first five seasons and was
an All-Star selection in 2003 and 2004.  Matsui helped the Yankees win the most recent of their
record 27 World Series titles in 2009 by collecting eight hits
in 13 at-bats during the championship series against the
 Philadelphia Phillies , with three home runs and eight RBI. In
the series-clinching game, Matsui had three hits in four at-
bats, including a home run and six RBI.  Yankees shortstop  Derek Jeter  said he’ll always consider
Matsui one of his favorite teammates.  “The way he went about his business day in and day out was
impressive,” Jeter said. “Despite being shadowed by a large
group of reporters, having the pressures of performing for his
fans both in New York and Japan and becoming acclimated to the
bright lights of  New York City , he always remained focused and
committed to his job and to those of us he shared the clubhouse
with. I have a lot of respect for Hideki.”  ‘Godzilla’  Nicknamed “Godzilla” while playing in Japan, Matsui
joined the Yankees after hitting 332 home runs over 10 seasons
with the Yomiuri Giants.  In his major-league debut, Matsui hit a grand slam with the
Yankees and went on to play 518 consecutive games in left field
or as a designated hitter before injuring his wrist in a May
2006 game against the  Boston Red Sox . The streak is the longest
for any player to start his major league career.  Matsui hit more than 20 homers in a season five times in
the U.S., including 31 for the Yankees in 2004. In 56 postseason
major-league games -- all with New York -- Matsui batted .312
with 10 home runs and 39 RBI.  “Hideki Matsui, in many ways, embodied what this
organization stands for,” Yankees managing general partner  Hal Steinbrenner  said in a statement. “He was dedicated to his
craft, embraced his responsibilities to his team and fans, and
elevated his play when he was needed the most. He did all these
things with a humility that was distinctly his own, which is why
he was such a big part of our success and why he will always be
a cherished member of the Yankees family.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  