-- Fourth-Quarter M&A Surge Spurs Optimism After 2012 Deals Decline
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-12-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/fourth-quarter-m-a-surge-spurs-optimism-after-2012-deals-decline.html
Global mergers and acquisitions rose
to the highest level in four years this quarter, as a surge in
U.S. deals provided ground for optimism and salvaged what had
been the worst year for takeovers since the financial crisis.  Companies worldwide have announced $691.9 billion in
purchases in the final three months of the year, the most since
the third quarter of 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. While transactions for all of 2012 shrank about 10
percent to $2.19 trillion, the same level as 2010, about $86
billion of telecommunications deals, including Softbank Corp.’s
planned purchase of a stake in Sprint Nextel Corp., gave the end
of the year a boost.  Chief executive officers sitting on more than $3.5 trillion
in cash held off on deals for most of 2012 as  Europe  slid into
recession, developing economies such as  China  cooled and $600
billion in possible spending cuts and tax increases threatened
U.S. growth. The pickup in takeovers may extend into next year
as American and European lawmakers take more decisive steps to
fortify the global economic recovery, said Gene Sykes, global
head of M&A at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “Wait and see has been the dominant attitude of
corporations’ approach to acquisitions because of the
macroeconomic uncertainty due to the U.S. fiscal cliff and the
euro debt crisis,” said Sykes, whose New York-based firm was
the top adviser on M&A globally this year. “Once these crises
find a solution there will likely be a rebound in activity
driven by continuing consolidation in natural resources,
industrials, technology and financial services.”  Glencore-Xstrata  Goldman Sachs and the other busiest advisers on takeovers
this year -- Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup
Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and Barclays Plc -- all played a
role in 2012’s biggest takeover, Glencore International Plc’s
$34 billion purchase of Xstrata Plc to create the world’s
fourth-biggest mining company. Goldman Sachs led the league
table for the second year in a row, with $542 billion of deals,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The three biggest acquisitions of the year besides
Glencore-Xstrata were all announced this quarter, while
IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s $8.2 billion purchase of NYSE
Euronext led $77 billion in transactions announced during last
week alone, the data show. At the end of the third quarter, the
pace of deals was set to result in the worst year since 2009.  Telecommunications deals have dominated the recovery this
quarter, as Tokyo-based Softbank agreed to pay about $20 billion
for 70 percent of Sprint and Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA
unit agreed to a $29 billion combination with MetroPCS
Communications Inc.  U.S. Growth  Softbank’s entry into the U.S. through the deal with Sprint
is allowing its billionaire owner Masayoshi Son to participate
in a market that’s still growing in contrast to  Japan , where
handset shipments tumbled 27 percent during the past five years.  The American economy will expand 2 percent next year and
2.8 percent in 2014, more than double the rate of both Japan and
the euro area in each year, according to economists’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. has the potential to boost both economic growth
and sentiment among CEOs further next year if President  Barack Obama  reaches an agreement with the Republican-led  U.S. Congress 
to avert more than $600 billion in spending cuts and tax
increases, known as the fiscal cliff, set to take effect in
January, according to bankers. Obama and Congress return to
 Washington  today and have five days to reach a deal.  “Notwithstanding the concerns we have about anemic growth
in the U.S., the country looks good on a relative basis,” said
Christopher Lawrence, New York-based deputy chairman of
Rothschild’s global investment-banking business. “As a result,
the U.S. is attracting the interest of well-capitalized non-
American corporations.”  European Rebound  European companies were also more active this quarter, with
deals increasing 73 percent from the previous three months to
$176 billion. The European Union summit on Dec. 13 and Dec. 14
closed out a year in which policy makers bolstered the 17-nation
single currency by setting up fiscal rules for indebted states,
a permanent bailout fund, a central-bank bond-buying program and
a road map for tighter banking and fiscal union. Still, Italian
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s resignation, announced Dec. 21, may
threaten to overshadow some of the progress.  “People are a bit more confident that the  euro zone  isn’t
going to collapse like they feared a few months ago,” said
Giuseppe Monarchi, co-head of Europe, Middle East and  Africa  M&A
at Credit Suisse in  London . “It’s not inconceivable that we’ll
see a pickup later next year, but we still need more visibility
on the macro side to feed CEO confidence.”  No Growth  The largest European acquisition this quarter was OAO
Rosneft’s agreement in October to buy TNK-BP, a 50-50 venture
between BP Plc and a group of billionaires, for $54.8 billion.
The acquisition was the third-biggest ever in the oil industry,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That purchase dwarfed other European deals this quarter,
such as Siemens AG’s proposed purchase of Invensys Plc’s rail
unit for 1.74 billion pounds ($2.8 billion). Siemens Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  embarked on his biggest
purchase in half a decade with the Invensys takeover after
building up a cash pile of more than 11 billion euros ($15
billion).  “European companies have strong balance sheets and low
economic growth in their markets, which means they have to
acquire to grow,” said Henrik Aslaksen, Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank AG’s global head of M&A in London.  Asian Takeovers  Takeovers by Asian companies in the fourth quarter rose to
their highest level in more than a year, helped by Softbank’s
Sprint purchase. The deal was the biggest publicly announced
outbound purchase by a Japanese company on record and marks the
most acquisitive quarter for Japanese firms in a decade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Still, overall Asian
transactions for all of 2012 were almost unchanged from 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Appetite for deals has stalled with economic growth in  Asia 
on track to slow to 6.2 percent in 2012, the smallest expansion
since 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s
economy , Asia’s largest, may grow 7.7 percent in 2012, the
lowest level since 1999, the data show. Still, the country’s
slowdown “appears to now have bottomed out,” the  World Bank 
said on Dec. 19.  China is still beefing up global reserves to feed demand in
the world’s second-largest economy, which accounted for half of
the world’s oil consumption growth in 2011, according to the
U.S. Energy Information Administration. Canada approved this
month Beijing-based Cnooc Ltd.’s $15.1 billion takeover of Nexen
Inc., the largest foreign deal by a Chinese company, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Growth Abroad  Overall, cross-border takeovers accounted for about half
all announced deals this year. Appetite for growth abroad could
lead to an improvement in global volumes next year, according to
Hernan Cristerna, head of M&A for Europe, the  Middle East  and
Africa at JPMorgan in London.  “The driver will likely be cross-border activity,” said
Cristerna. “We’re seeing much more interest in deal making.”  Private-equity firms also have capacity to contribute as
they look to unload assets acquired in 2006 and 2007, when $1.3
trillion in leveraged buyouts took place. In 2012, private-
equity acquisitions slumped to $211 billion, the lowest level
since 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  Assets ‘Backlog’  “There’s quite a backlog of assets that buyout firms are
keen to either spin off or find new owners for,” said Scott Matlock, London-based chairman of international M&A at Morgan
Stanley. “In fact, many assets bought around 2006 and 2007 are
particularly ripe for new ownership.”  Companies also have strong balance sheets and access to
“attractively priced funding,” which should support
acquisitions, Matlock said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold corporate bonds
worldwide from the most creditworthy to the riskiest fell to
219 basis points as of Dec. 24 from 345 basis points a year
earlier, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Corporate & High Yield index. Sales of the debt have exceeded
$3.9 trillion this year, surpassing the 2009 record. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  The average size of deals this year was $149 million, with
97 percent of the transactions under $500 million, and 14
exceeding $10 billion, according to Bloomberg data. Companies
have been more focused on selling non-strategic businesses and
making smaller acquisitions than transformational deals, said
Mark Warham, co-head of M&A in EMEA at Barclays in London.  “We’re seeing more of the portfolio rebalancing than mega
mergers and that sort of activity will continue,” Warham said.
“Maybe as markets continue to settle, we’ll see people being a
bit more ambitious.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  