-- German Mid-Sized Firms to Hire Even as Growth Stalls, Poll Shows
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-12-27T13:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/german-mid-sized-firms-to-hire-even-as-growth-stalls-poll-shows.html
German small and medium-sized
companies plan to hire more employees next year, even as most of
them expect the economy to stagnate, because skilled labor is
scarce, a poll of more than 3,000 companies showed.  A total of 32 percent of Mittelstand companies plan to hire
workers compared with 9 percent that intend to cut staff, the
 BVMW lobby  of medium-sized companies said today in Berlin.
Seventy-two percent of companies expect the economy to stagnate
while 17 percent anticipate an upswing and 11 percent foresee a
recession, said the BVMW, which represents 150,000 companies.  “There is an acute lack of skilled labor in  Germany ,”
BVMW president Mario Ohoven told reporters in Berlin. “Every
third business can’t find suitable labor for vacant jobs.”  Germany’s jobless rate is still close to a two-decade low,
helping to fuel household spending and temper the economic
slowdown. The Bundesbank said this month it expects the German
economy to grow next year after a contraction in the fourth
quarter.  The number of people without a job fell by 1,874 in
unadjusted terms to 2.75 million, or 6.5 percent, in November,
the Federal Labor Agency in Nuremberg said Nov. 29. Ohoven said
hiring by mid-sized companies will help keep the number of
unemployed below 3 million next year and predicted growth of as
much as 1 percent.  Of the 3,300 companies polled between Dec. 7 and Dec. 21,
45 percent had as many as 9 employees, 31 percent had between 10
and 49 workers and 24 percent employed 50 people or more, the
BVMW said.  CDU Leads  Asked which political parties cater most to the needs of
medium-sized companies, 49 percent named  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Union bloc, 21 percent preferred its Free
Democrat coalition partner, 10 percent voted in favor of the
opposition Social Democrats and 7 percent named the opposition
Greens.  Merkel is running for a third term in German national
elections that will be held in September.  Fifty-three percent of the companies said their business
situation will remain the same over the next six months, 28
percent said it will improve and 19 percent said it will worsen,
the BVMW said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  