-- Michigan Lawmakers Approve New Emergency Manager Law
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-12-27T16:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/michigan-lawmakers-approve-new-emergency-manager-law.html
Michigan Republican Governor  Rick Snyder  signed a law giving financially distressed cities and
school districts a choice of bankruptcy or a state-appointed
emergency manager with the power to cancel union contracts.  The bill replaces a similar 2011 measure that voters
repealed on Nov. 6. The new law gives elected officials in
communities where the state has declared a financial emergency
four options: Chapter 9 bankruptcy, the appointment of an
emergency manager, mediation with creditors or a consent
agreement to reduce debt.  “This legislation demonstrates that we clearly heard,
recognized and respected the will of the voters,” Snyder said
today in a news release. “It builds in local control and
options while also ensuring the tools to protect communities and
schools districts’ residents, students and taxpayers.”  Emergency managers still would have powers to administer
services and cut costs. However, local officials could stop
certain of their decisions or develop alternate solutions that
produce equal savings.  The new law permits local officials to ask the governor to
remove emergency managers within the first year, or dismiss them
after a year, with a two-thirds vote of a governing body such as
a city council.  Detroit’s Limbo  The November repeal of Public Act 4 left the state without
enough clout to rescue cities and schools, according to Snyder
and Republican lawmakers who championed the 2011 measure. That
law gave the state the power to appoint an emergency manager or
impose a consent agreement. Opponents called it undemocratic and
an attempt to bust unions.  The new law takes effect in late March. That means it can’t
be used to help solve the financial crisis in  Detroit , which is
projected to run up a $400 million deficit by June and a
possible cash shortfall.  Detroit avoided takeover in April with an agreement to
reduce spending. State Treasurer Andy Dillon has begun a new
audit of the city, which he said isn’t moving fast enough to
curb its deficit.  Five other Michigan cities and three school districts have
emergency managers operating under a 1990 law that took effect
when the 2011 law was suspended in August and then repealed. The
old law gives the managers less authority to cut costs, such as
the inability to modify or terminate existing union contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  