-- India’s Stock Futures Swing Between Gain, Loss Before Expiry
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-12-27T01:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/india-s-stock-futures-swing-between-gain-loss-before-expiry.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures swung
between gains and losses before the expiry of the December
futures contract today.  SGX S&P CNX Nifty Index futures  for December delivery fell
0.8 percent to 5,915 at 9:41 a.m. in Singapore after adding 0.1
percent. The underlying S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National
Stock Exchange of India Ltd. gained 0.9 percent to 5,905.60
yesterday. The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose 0.8
percent to 19,417.46. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR
Index of U.S.-traded shares increased 0.2 percent.  “Volatility can be expected in the Indian markets ahead of
the December expiry,” Alex Mathews, head of research at Geojit
BNP Paribas Financial Services Ltd., wrote in an e-mail
yesterday.  Shares of  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s biggest
carmaker by volume, may move after chairman R.C. Bhargava said
the company is considering setting up its first overseas
assembly plant in  Africa  as it seeks to revive flagging exports.  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  may move after the Indian Aviation
Minister Ajit Singh said the carrier’s revival plan submitted to
the industry regulator earlier this week was “only a wish,”
and contained no funding plan.  The airline’s license was suspended in October after it
halted services because of a strike by engineers and pilots
demanding seven months of unpaid salaries.  The Sensex has risen 26 percent this year, headed for its
biggest annual jump since 2009, as government steps to open the
economy to offshore investment lured foreign funds.  Overseas funds were net  buyers  of domestic stocks for a
28th day on Dec. 24, the longest stretch of purchases since a
record 41-day streak through Oct. 27, 2010. Foreign investors
have bought a net $24.1 billion of Indian shares this year, the
highest among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg, excluding
China, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Sensex is valued at 15.3 times estimated earnings,
compared with the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s 12 times, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  