-- India Lowers GDP Growth Goal as Singh Signals Higher Fuel Prices
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-12-27T07:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/india-lowers-gdp-growth-goal-as-singh-signals-higher-fuel-prices.html
India cut the goal for economic
growth in the five years to 2017 and signaled further fuel-price
increases to limit subsidies that have stoked a  budget deficit .  The nation will seek average annual  growth  of 8 percent in
the period, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said in a speech to
federal and state officials in  New Delhi  today. That’s lower
than an earlier objective of 8.2 percent for the five fiscal
years from April 1, 2012.  The revised aim “is still an ambitious target,” Singh said,
adding energy in India is underpriced and a “phased” adjustment
in tariffs is necessary.  India’s efforts to rival  China  as the fastest-growing major
emerging nation have been hurt by budget and trade deficits and
supply bottlenecks that have kept inflation above 7 percent.
Singh overhauled policies in mid-September, raising diesel
prices and opening the economy to more foreign investment as he
struggles to lift growth from last quarter’s 5.3 percent pace.  The rupee, which has weakened 3.3 percent this year, was
little changed at 54.8375 per dollar as of 11:58 a.m. local time.
The BSE India Sensitive Index of stocks rose 0.1 percent.  The  Finance Ministry  forecasts a 5.7 percent to 5.9 percent
rise in gross domestic product in the 12 months that began April
1, the weakest in a decade.  The government has set up a panel to try and speed up
infrastructure projects in a bid to revive Asia’s third-largest
economy. Yesterday, it extended a policy providing subsidized
credit to some exporters through the 12 months to March 2014 to
tackle the trade deficit.  Twin Deficits  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram has pledged to
narrow the budget shortfall to 5.3 percent of GDP this fiscal
year, from 5.8 percent in 2011-2012. Last year’s gap was the
widest among the largest  emerging markets , fanned by a subsidy
program ranging from diesel to fertilizers.  “Subsidies should be well designed and effectively targeted
and the total volume must be kept within limits of fiscal
sustainability,” Singh said as he outlined objectives for
India’s 12th five-year plan.  The trade deficit was $175.5 billion in January-to-November
compared with $146.9 billion in the same period a year earlier,
Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  said yesterday.  The twin deficits contributed to warnings from Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings earlier this year that they may strip
the nation of its investment-grade  credit rating .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  