-- TIPS Beating Australia Linkers for First Time Since 2009
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-12-28T03:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/tips-beating-linkers-for-first-time-since-2009-australia-credit.html
Australian inflation-linked bonds
are losing to their U.S. counterparts for the first time since
2009 as the South Pacific nation’s mining boom wanes while the
Federal Reserve ramps up stimulus.  Treasury Inflation Protected Securities have returned 7.7
percent this year, versus 6.6 percent for Australian linkers,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. The  gap  between yields
on U.S. 10-year notes and TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, surged 51 basis points to 2.46 percentage
points, while the similar spread widened 22 to 2.66 for
 Australia . The  so-called breakeven rates  drew equal to each
other in September for the first time since 2005.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  cut the
benchmark  interest rate  to a 50-year low of 3 percent this month
and the government abandoned plans to run a  budget surplus  as a
fading mining boom saps economic growth. The Fed said it would
let inflation go past its target as it expands bond buying to
spur the economy, even after the jobless rate dropped to 7.7
percent in November, the lowest level since 2008.  “It wouldn’t surprise me to see other inflation markets
start to outperform Australia,” said  Sally Auld , a Sydney-based
interest-rate strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “The  U.S.
economy  is doing a little bit better, whereas the data in
Australia have been pretty soft.”  Bond Performance  Government bonds  that don’t protect against rising prices
returned 2.3 percent in the U.S. and 5.1 percent in Australia
this year, the Bank of America figures show.  Inflation-linked securities in both nations pay a lower
yield than other debt. The principal value adjusts in tandem
with gains in the  consumer price index . The fixed interest rate
is calculated based on the adjusted capital. At maturity,
investors receive the adjusted capital value.  Stevens lowered  borrowing costs  by a quarter point on Dec.
4 to 3 percent, completing the sixth reduction since November
2011, the most aggressive series of rate cuts among developed
nations.  The RBA’s favored gauges showed Australian  consumer prices 
advanced about 2.5 percent in the third quarter from the year
before, the middle of the central bank’s inflation target, data
in October showed. The  unemployment rate  was 5.2 percent last
month, after rising to 5.4 percent in September, the highest
level since April 2010.  Expecting Pickup  Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., which manages the equivalent of
$60.3 billion and is a unit of  Japan ’s second-largest brokerage,
forecasts faster Australian growth that may boost prices.
Australian linkers offered investors a 55 percent return since
the start of 2008, beating the 48 percent gain for federal
government debt not tied to inflation and the 42 percent advance
for U.S. TIPS, Bank of America data show.  “By the end of 2013, inflation bonds could be good because
I’m expecting some pickup in the economy,” said Kei Katayama,
who buys non-yen debt in  Tokyo  for the company.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has kept the U.S. benchmark at
about zero since December 2008. The Fed announced Dec. 12 the
central bank plans to buy $45 billion of U.S. government
securities a month. It is already buying $40 billion of mortgage
debt monthly.  Fed Rates  U.S. rates will stay low “at least as long” as
unemployment is more than 6.5 percent and if inflation is
projected to be no more than 2.5 percent, policy makers said in
a statement. Consumer-price increases slowed to a 1.8 percent
annual pace in November. The average for the past decade is 2.5
percent.  The Fed said in January it would target inflation of 2
percent. The Reserve Bank aims to keep cost increases in the
economy in a range of 2 percent to 3 percent.  The Australian dollar has risen 1.7 percent this year to
$1.0376 as of 2:34 p.m. in Sydney. Corporate debt in the nation
returned 11 percent.  For Australia, which has benefited from selling commodities
to  China , the peak in investment in the industry “is
approaching,” Stevens said in a  statement  this month.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is also cutting spending as
she tries to end budget deficits. Her government last week said
a “sledgehammer” hit to revenue from declining commodity
earnings means it must postpone plans to return to surplus.  Gross domestic product expanded in the three months ended
Sept. 30 at the slowest pace in six quarters, government data
showed this month. Australian  business confidence  plunged to the
lowest level in November since April 2009, while job ads dropped
for an eighth month, data this month showed.  RBA Outlook  The Reserve Bank will cut rates further in 2013, said Alvin Pontoh, a Singapore-based strategist at TD Securities Inc.  “Given the weak signals we’re seeing from various
indicators, inflation is unlikely to break away from the target
band,” Pontoh said. “It’s unlikely to be an issue for the RBA.
There’s scope for a bit more policy easing.”  The central bank will reduce its benchmark to 2.75 percent
in the middle of next year, Pontoh said.  That matches the median forecast from 25 economists
surveyed Dec. 18 by  Bloomberg News .  Macquarie Bank , part of
Australia’s biggest investment bank, had the lowest prediction
at 2.25 percent, while eight forecasters picked 3 percent, the
highest estimate.  “The mining boom is going to peak and unemployment is
drifting higher,” said  Peter Jolly , Sydney-based head of market
research for National Australia Bank Ltd. “The RBA slashed
rates through 2012, and because the inflation outlook remains
benign, I expect they will cut further in 2013. I don’t think
investors need to take out protection from higher inflation in
Australia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  