-- Iran’s Ahmadinejad Fires Minister After Criticisism
-- B y   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-12-27T14:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/iran-s-ahmadinejad-fires-minister-after-criticisism.html
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  fired the country’s health minister, Marzieh Vahid Dastjerdi, the first female Cabinet member in the Islamic
Republic’s 33-year history, state-run news agencies reported.  Mohammad-Hassan Tarighat Monfared will assume her
responsibilities as acting minister, Ahmadinejad wrote in a
letter published on the website of the state-run  Mehr  news
agency. He didn’t provide a reason for the change.  Vahid Dastjerdi had said in recent days that an increase in
the price of medicine is “inevitable unless sufficient foreign
currency is made available to the ministry,” according a Dec.
25 report by the official  Islamic Republic News Agency .
Dastjerdi had earlier lamented her ministry’s “financial
situation,” according to IRNA.  Iran’s rial has dropped as much as 40 percent against the
dollar since August, leading to spiraling inflation, as tighter
U.S. and European energy and financial sanctions curb oil
exports and access to hard currencies. The economic pressure has
revived political rivalries inside the Iranian leadership.  “We have problems transferring currencies and also being
given access,” Vahid Dastjerdi said earlier this month on the
health ministry’s  website .  The central bank only freed enough currency to meet a third
of the ministry’s $2.5 billion import needs, she said. The costs
of basic household goods in  Iran , including medications, have
doubled in some cases, Iranian cleric Ayatollah Nasser Makarem-
Shirazi said yesterday, according to the Tehran-based Donya-e-
Eqtesad newspaper.  Vahid Dastjerdi was approved as health minister in 2009.
Two other women nominated by Ahmadinejad at the time for the
posts of welfare minister and education minister had failed to
get the parliament’s vote of confidence.  Iran holds presidential elections in June and Ahmadinejad
isn’t eligible to run for a third term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  