-- Mistry at Tata Helm as Investors Query $500 Billion Goal
-- B y   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-12-28T10:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/mistry-at-tata-helm-with-500-billion-challenge-corporate-india.html
Cyrus Mistry, who takes charge today
at Tata,  India ’s biggest business group, may face an uphill
battle if he is to meet his predecessor’s vision of boosting
revenue fivefold to $500 billion in the next decade.  Mistry, 44, becomes chairman of Tata Sons Ltd., the holding
company for the salt-to-software group, just as slower economic
growth damps demand for products from steel to cars.  Ratan Tata ,
who steps down on turning 75 after two decades at the helm,
built the business into a $100 billion global conglomerate
through acquisitions including the U.K.’s Corus Group Plc and
Jaguar Land Rover. Tata succeeded his uncle in 1991 as  India’s
economy  was opening up.  “It is not an easy task to grow fivefold in this global
economic scenario,” said Shishir Bajpai, senior vice president
at IIFL Wealth Management Ltd. in  Mumbai . “The bar is set high
for Mistry to deliver. Ratan Tata took a group well known in the
domestic markets global, now Mistry has to take it forward.”  The change of guard marks a rare opportunity to shape the
group of more than  100 companies , whose expansion has mirrored
India’s emergence as a global economic power and ranks Tata
above  Japan ’s Panasonic Corp. and Swiss food giant Nestle SA by
sales. At stake is the equivalent of about 6 percent of India’s
gross domestic product, and the future of firms including  Tata
Steel Ltd. (TATA) , India’s biggest producer of the alloy, and  Tata
Motors (TTMT)  Ltd., the nation’s No. 1 automaker by revenue.  Biggest Shareholder  Mistry’s performance could also weigh on his family’s
fortune: along with his billionaire father, Pallonji Shapoorji Mistry, and his brother, the chairman’s family owns about 18
percent of Tata Sons. Little is known about the London Business
School management postgraduate’s leadership style or strategic
vision, and the man chosen by a select search panel in November
2011 has so far shied away from the media and investors.  “I haven’t heard from him on company plans, so I don’t
know” how Mistry will lead, Koen Vanderauwera, a Luxembourg-
based bond-fund manager at KBC Asset Management SA that holds
the debt of Tata Steel and Tata Power Ltd., said in a phone
interview. “I’ll wait and see what kind of announcements he
makes, how he comments.”  The $500 billion revenue vision for Tata in 2021 was
outlined by Ratan while addressing his top executives in April,
and confirmed by Tata Sons director R. Gopalakrishnan. Group
spokesman Debasis Ray declined to comment on the vision or
Mistry’s plans for Tata. “Such matters are internal to the
company,” Ray said in an e-mailed reply to a query.  Textile Trading  Mistry and the Tatas follow the Zoroastrian religion and
belong to the small Parsi community, which originated in Persia
and found sanctuary centuries ago in India. The  Tata group  was
founded by Ratan’s great grandfather Jamsetji Nusserwanji Tata,
who started a textile-trading business in  1868  and then built
the country’s first steel mill and hydroelectric plant. He also
built the Taj Mahal Palace & Tower hotel in Mumbai, which was
damaged in the November 2008 terrorist attacks.  Mistry will also need all the project-handling skills honed
at running the construction business at his family’s Shapoorji
Pallonji & Co. to sustain profitability even as many of Tata’s
key companies battle adverse market conditions or regulatory
changes.  “Revenue without sustained profits and a high return on
invested capital is of no use,” Neeraj Monga, head of research
at Toronto-based Veritas Investment Research Corp., said by e-
mail. The group’s biggest businesses, steel and automobiles, are
both cyclical industries and maintaining profitability is a
challenge, said Monga.  Steel, Autos  For a group that includes  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
India’s largest software company, Tata Motors, owner of the
Jaguar and Land Rover luxury marques, and Tata Global Beverages
Ltd., the local partner of Starbucks Corp., sales and profit
growth is slowing at its biggest businesses.  Profit growth  at Tata Motors decelerated to the slowest
pace in four quarters in the three months ended Sept. 30 and
sales growth slowed to the least in three years amid waning
demand for  luxury vehicles  in  Europe . Tata Steel posted an
 unexpected loss  even as sales growth stayed below 5 percent for
the third straight quarter.  “It’s not easy to grow fivefold organically, so Mistry at
some point will have to pull a multibillion dollar surprise
acquisition,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , head of research at
New Delhi-based SMC Global Securities Ltd. “He has to be
careful because the group’s experience on this front has been
mixed.”  Overseas Acquisitions  Tata Steel, which  acquired  Corus for $12.9 billion in 2007,
making it the group’s biggest overseas purchase, reported a loss
of 3.64 billion rupees ($66 million) in the three months ended
Sept. 30 as weak demand in Europe and  China  cut prices of the
alloy. The steelmaker plans to restructure its U.K. business,
cutting 900 jobs and closing 12 sites, it said in a Nov. 23
statement, to shore up margins in a market dogged by
overcapacity.  In contrast, Tata Motors’ 2008 acquisition of Jaguar Land
Rover from Ford Motor Co. for $2.3 billion helped boost the
Indian automaker’s sales almost fivefold over four years. That
pace of growth may be hard to sustain as Europe struggles to
recover from a debt crisis.  Tata Steel shares have climbed 28 percent in Mumbai trading
this year, outperforming the BSE India Sensitive Index’s 26
percent advance. The steelmaker’s shares fell 0.5 percent to
close at 428.55 rupees in Mumbai trading. Tata Motors has surged
74 percent, making it the  best performer  on the 30-company
benchmark index. The automaker’s shares gained 0.3 percent to
close at 310.05 rupees.  ‘Minds Open’  “We should always keep our minds open to acquisitions,”
Mistry told recruits in comments that were viewable in a video
on one of the group’s websites. “We would, in each company as
part of its own strategy, look at M&A for growth but not as a
must have.”  Purchases overseas have also proved harder in the past year
with Tata’s recent attempts failing to clinch a deal.  Orient-Express Hotels Ltd. (OEH) , owner of  New York ’s 21 Club
restaurant and Hotel Cipriani in  Venice , last month rejected a
takeover offer by Tata’s Indian Hotels Co., saying the bid
undervalues the company. In April,  Tata Communications Ltd. (TCOM) 
decided against making an offer for Cable & Wireless Worldwide
Plc after failing to agree on a price.  Mistry can look to fund acquisitions by tapping the cash
pile at Tata Consultancy Services, the group’s most valuable
company by market value, in which Tata Sons  holds  74 percent.
The Mumbai-based software exporter had 79.2 billion rupees in
cash and short-term investments on Sept. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, Tata’s new head may opt to look within and
consolidate holdings to bolster profitability instead of
continuing to pursue acquisitions, according to Tarun Kataria,
chief executive officer at Religare Capital Markets Ltd.  “Cyrus takes over the reigns of a highly regarded but
sprawling conglomerate at a time of great global uncertainty and
muted economic growth,” Mumbai-based Kataria said in an e-mail.
“His very deliberate focus will likely be on consolidation,
deleveraging, exiting certain businesses and bringing related
businesses under a unified whole.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  