-- Italy Sells Bills as Rates Remain Near Two-Year Record Low
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-12-27T10:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/italy-sells-bills-as-rates-remain-near-two-year-record-low.html
Italy sold 8.5 billion euros ($11.3
billion) of six-month Treasury bills as rates remained near a
two-year low amid optimism Prime Minister  Mario Monti  will play
a role in the next government after February’s election.  The Treasury in  Rome  today sold the 177-day bills at 0.949
percent, up from 0.919 percent at the previous auction of
similar-maturity debt Nov. 28, which was the lowest since April
2010. Investors bid for 1.57 times the amount of bills offered,
down from 1.65 times last month. The Treasury also sold 3.25
billion euros of zero-coupon bonds due in 2014 to yield 1.884
percent compared with 1.923 percent Nov. 27.  Italy returns to the market tomorrow with the sale of as
much as 6 billion euros of five and 10-year bonds.  The sale is the first since Monti announced on Dec. 23 that
he would consider being a candidate for premier in the elections
on Feb. 24-25. Monti encouraged parties backing his policies to
run on his behalf in the vote.  “At the moment markets are serene and are not putting
pressure on  Italy ,” Nicola Marinelli, who oversees $180 million
at Glendevon King Asset Management in  London , said by e-mail
before the auction. “The idea is that Monti will play a role in
the next administration and whatever the outcome of the
elections will be, the next government will do the right things
for the economy and the reforms.”  Economic Revamp  Italy’s 10-year yield rose 6 basis points to 4.5 percent at
11:15 a.m. in Rome, leaving the difference with comparable-
maturity German debt at 315 basis points.  Monti’s economic revamp, including an overhaul of pension
and labor laws, helped tame the country’s public finances and
restore investor confidence, while deepening the nation’s fourth
recession since 2001.  “Together, we have saved Italy from disaster,” Monti
wrote in a Twitter post yesterday. Italians should “take
action” because complaining is useless, he said.  Monti’s road map designed to make Italy more competitive
includes further efforts to open up closed professions, measures
to battle conflict of interest and corruption, and steps to
boost female employment.  Centrist Italian parties, which have been wooing Monti for
months, have already decided to embrace his agenda. Monti’s move
may make it more difficult for the  Democratic Party , which leads
in opinion polls, to obtain a majority in the upper house of
Parliament.  Italian Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani said
yesterday there’s nothing “surprising” in Monti’s agenda and
while his party agrees with some of the measures, some others
should be discussed, Ansa news agency reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  