-- Itau as Worst-Performing Stock Still Tempting Analysts
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-12-27T13:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/itau-as-worst-performing-stock-still-tempting-analysts.html
Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , the worst-
performing stock among the largest Brazilian banks this year, is
the one analysts say will fare the best as the economy rebounds.  Analysts’ consensus rating, a gauge of share-price
expectations, is 4.29 for Sao Paulo-based Itau, the highest
score for a financial company in the benchmark Bovespa index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The consensus is
calculated by converting each analyst’s recommendation into a
number from one to five.  Itau declined 0.7 percent in Sao Paulo trading this year
before today as borrowers stung by a second straight year of
slowing economic growth missed more debt payments. Brazil’s
economy will probably expand 3.3 percent in 2013, compared with
1 percent this year, according to a central bank survey of
economists. Itau will benefit more than lenders such as Banco
Bradesco SA, said  Mario Pierry , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG.  “Itau’s shares have a bigger correlation with economic
cycles than Bradesco’s, and will perform better if the pace of
growth picks up,” Pierry said in an interview in Sao Paulo.
“Bradesco now has a better valuation than Itau, and because of
that Itau has more room for improvement.”  Itau, whose 147.7 billion market value makes it Latin
America’s biggest bank, trades at 9.6 times its 2013 estimated
earnings, compared with 10.5 for Bradesco and 6.5 for Banco do
Brasil SA, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Itau’s
shares trade 13 percent below analysts’ average 12-month target
price of  38.87 reais .  Itau’s stock was little changed at 33.70 reais at 
11:15 a.m. in Sao Paulo trading, in line with the benchmark 
Bovespa index.  ‘Difficult Year’  Brazilian banks have underperformed their global and Latin
American peers as President Dilma Rousseff pushed lenders to cut
interest rates and reduce profits to “civilized” levels.
State-owned Banco do Brasil suffers the most from such
government intervention in the banking industry, Pierry said.  “Itau had a very difficult year with the increase in
delinquencies of our auto-loan book,” Rogerio Calderon, the
bank’s head of investor relations, said in a telephone interview
in Sao Paulo. “This subtracted quality from our results and
reduced the share price.”  Bradesco, Brazil’s second-biggest bank, advanced 16 percent
this year through yesterday, the top performer among the 10
biggest banks in Brazil. Bradesco has a  4.17 (BBDC4)  consensus rating,
compared with  3.77 (BBAS3)  for Brasilia-based Banco do Brasil and  2.32 (SANB11) 
for Santander. Bradesco’s market capitalization of 133.3 billion
reais is 14.4 billion reais below Itau’s, down from a gap of 48
billion reais in February.  ‘Diversified Business’  “Bradesco has a more diversified business,” Pierry said,
noting that about a third of the bank’s revenue comes from
insurance. Pierry said Bradesco is also less exposed to default-
rate increases on credit cards and auto loans than Itau.  Officials at Banco do Brasil and Bradesco declined to
comment on the recommendations, according to e-mailed
statements.  As interest rates fell and economic growth cooled, Itau
reduced its  headcount  by 8.4 percent to 97,030 at the end of the
third quarter from a year earlier, according to its most recent
earnings statement.  “The current analyst recommendation shows the market sees
we took the appropriate measures, and next year will be better
than this year,” Calderon said.  “Itau has proved it’s capable of reducing costs, and is on
track to deliver operating-expenses growth below inflation this
year and the next,” Credit Suisse Group AG analysts in Sao
Paulo, including  Marcelo Telles , wrote in a note to clients last
month.  Auto Loans  Credit Suisse raised its  recommendation  for Itau to neutral
from underperform on Nov. 30. Itau will also benefit from cost
synergies related to its acquisition of card-processing company
Redecard SA in October, Credit Suisse said. The neutral rating
means Credit Suisse expects the stock’s total return will be in
line with market benchmarks in a range of 10 percent to 15
percent during the next 12 months.  Itau has been more selective on auto loans as delinquency
rates reached 5.2 percent at the end of the second quarter, the
highest since the fourth quarter of 2009. In July, the bank said
it plans to reduce its portfolio of auto loans, the nation’s
biggest, to as low as 50 billion in December from 60.1 billion
reais a year earlier.  Pullback  The pullback means Itau is lagging behind  Brazil ’s largest
banks on loan expansion, said Carlos Daltozo, a bank analyst at
Banco do Brasil. Itau’s loan portfolio advanced 9.3 percent in
the 12 months through September to 417.6 billion reais, compared
with 12 percent for Bradesco and 21 percent for Banco do Brasil.  “Our recommendation is for Bradesco,” Daltozo said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “Bradesco anticipated all
these adjustments before Itau.”  Itau’s focus on lower risk will affect earnings this
quarter and next, he said.  The nationwide default rate on personal and business loans
for payments at least 90 days overdue remained at a record 5.9
percent from July to October, before dropping to 5.8 percent
last month, according to Brazil’s central bank.  “The November delinquency figures may be a signal that the
delinquency cycle is over, meaning the banks will post an
improvement on provisions,” Eduardo Nishio, an analyst at
brokerage Brasil Plural SA in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone
interview. “Itau is the bank in Brazil that suffered more this
year and may post the best recovery as the economy rebounds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  