-- Mitsubishi UFJ to Buy Stake in VietinBank for $743 Million
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-27T10:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/mitsubishi-ufj-to-buy-20-stake-in-vietinbank-for-743-million.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
agreed to buy a 20 percent stake in VietinBank for 15.5 trillion
dong ($743 million), the biggest Japanese investment in a
Vietnamese bank.  The lender’s Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. unit will
purchase the stake from the Vietnamese government by the end of
2013, the companies said in a joint statement in Hanoi today.  Mitsubishi UFJ,  Japan ’s biggest bank, joins  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and  Sumitomo Mitsui  Financial Group Inc. in
investing in Vietnam as a shrinking home market spurs them to
expand abroad. While Vietnam has attracted Japanese companies
from  Canon Inc. (7751)  to  Kao Corp. (4452) , the country is grappling with bad
loans and the slowest economic growth since 1999.  “This deal will help Mitsubishi UFJ expand lending in
Vietnam and contribute to profit in the medium term,” said
Shinichiro Nakamura, a Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. “Vietnam will be a key market for Japan in the
next few years. Japanese megabanks and manufacturers have been
looking to diversify away from  China .”  Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade,
VietinBank’s full name, is the nation’s second-biggest publicly
traded lender, with a market value of 54 trillion dong.  Shares of Hanoi-based  VietinBank (CTG)  were unchanged at 20,300
at the close in Ho Chi Minh City trading. Mitsubishi UFJ
advanced 0.5 percent to 451 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Retail Lending  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ seeks to expand retail lending
and international banking transactions in Vietnam with the deal,
President Nobuyuki Hirano said at a briefing in Hanoi today.  VietinBank will improve its corporate governance and risk
management through the partnership, Chairman Pham Huy Hung said
in the statement. Mitsubishi UFJ will send two people to the
board, said Takami Onodera, the Japanese bank’s CEO for  Asia .  The deal, which is subject to regulatory approval, will
reduce the Vietnamese government’s stake to 64 percent, Hung
said. It currently holds 80 percent of VietinBank, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japanese banks are expanding abroad as falling  interest
rates  stemming from more than a decade of  deflation  squeeze loan
profitability at home. With households hoarding cash, deposits
at Japan’s banks exceeded loans by 171 trillion yen last month,
close to a record 174.1 trillion yen in June, central bank
figures show.  Following Mizuho  Mizuho, Japan’s third-largest bank by market value, last
year agreed to buy 15 percent of state-owned Joint-Stock
Commercial Bank for  Foreign Trade  of Vietnam, known as
Vietcombank, for $560 million. Larger rival Sumitomo Mitsui
bought 15 percent of Eximbank, or Vietnam Export-Import
Commercial Joint Stock Bank, for $225 million in 2007.  To help fund overseas lending, Sumitomo Mitsui seeks to
issue as much as $4.5 billion in dollar-denominated bonds next
year, matching 2012’s amount as the most in its 11-year history,
President  Koichi Miyata  said in a Dec. 19 interview. Miyata said
he is interested in acquisitions in  Southeast Asia .  Kao, Japan’s largest maker of bath and shower products,
said last month that it wants to at least double the size of its
Vietnamese business to ramp up overseas growth as the domestic
market shrinks.  Still, Vietnam’s banks are saddled with the highest non-
performing loans in Southeast Asia, crimping economic growth.
The economy expanded 5.03 percent this year, the slowest pace in
13 years as a slump in bank lending damped domestic demand.  Closer Watch  Vietnam’s central bank said today it will intensify the
monitoring of banks to reduce bad debt and set a timeline for
lenders that own stakes in each other to reduce them. The risk
of some Vietnamese banks failing to meet their liabilities is
receding from a year ago, Nguyen Huu Nghia, the central bank’s
chief inspector, said at a briefing in Hanoi today.  The country’s soured loans won’t impede Tokyo-based
Mitsubishi UFJ’s expansion, said Yoshinobu Yamada, an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG.  “Given Mitsubishi UFJ’s risk management capacity,
 Vietnam ’s recent bad-loan issue won’t be a stumbling block for
the bank to expand lending operations in the country after the
VietinBank deal,” Yamada said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  