-- Mitt Romney’s New Year’s Resolution
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-12-27T15:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/mitt-romney-s-new-year-s-resolution.html
As I look back at the 2012
presidential campaign, it now all seems so obvious.  Not one of those clowns performing at the hundreds of
Republican  primary debates  this year and last was a match for
the eventual nominee,  Mitt Romney . And Romney clearly wasn’t the
candidate to defeat President  Barack Obama .  Yes and yes -- but still. We don’t always see what’s
happening before our very eyes. To me, the last 12 months (give
or take a few) raise two central questions: If we don’t learn
from the flawed candidates of the past, how will we avoid taking
them seriously in the future? And now that he is unencumbered by
presidential ambitions, what should Romney do with the rest of
his public life?  Taking the first question first, I confess that  I accepted 
 Herman Cain  as a viable candidate for president long after his
sell-by date. Then it was time for  Rick Santorum , who was
anointed by the Christian right as the un-clown who could stop
Romney. “If you were to bolt a conservative candidate together
from spare parts -- and Santorum sometimes seems as if he has
been,”  I wrote  in December 2011, “you would get something akin
to the former Pennsylvania senator.”  He wore his faith on his sweater vest, was intensely pro-
life and had a family to rival Romney’s. When evangelicals
finally got together in a Houston suburb to eat, pray and lurch
their way to  an endorsement  in mid-January, Santorum got the
nod, if not a hug. (The group’s first love, Texas Governor  Rick Perry , had too many stumbles.)  Entertaining Hypocrisy  Newt Gingrich  -- professional provocateur, moon colonizer,
disgraced former speaker of the House -- could never win the
Republican nomination for president, although  I wrote  about him
as if he could. A serial adulterer who tried to repair his image
by endorsing a conservative  group’s vow  to protect marriage, one
of his low moments was having his daughters from his first wife
defend Gingrich’s third wife against charges by his second wife
that he had urged her to have an “open marriage.”  My defense for writing so much about Gingrich is that
hypocrisy is rarely so entertaining. Besides, Gingrich did have
an impact -- his victory in  South Carolina  roused the rusty
establishment, which exposed his exaggerated relationship with
former President  Ronald Reagan  and Gingrich’s mediocre record as
speaker. Then Romney and his super-PACs spent more than $10
million for ads in  Florida , which was more than enough to finish
off Gingrich.  So the putative front-runner finally became the actual
front-runner. I was still under the illusion that, with such a
rotten economy, a challenger would easily be able to defeat an
incumbent president.  And yet, was Romney ever really viable? He was so unloved
that at one point even Cain  polled better . Romney simply
couldn’t connect with voters long enough to take advantage of
the president’s weakness. Being yourself (or yourselves) is hard
enough without the artificial authenticity of politics. What an
ordeal every day must have been for Romney, as he tried to find
a way of being that would get people, even in his own party, to
stop saying what a stiff phony he was.  Trying to prove them wrong, he went for spontaneous only to
blurt out  ridiculous things  he couldn’t possibly have believed.
Did he really like to fire people, or favor self-deportation, or
think that $10,000 was a reasonable amount for a bet?  Even at a carefully choreographed convention, he didn’t
feel the love. His thunder (as well as that of his running mate,
Representative  Paul Ryan , and Romney’s wife, Ann) was stolen by
 Clint Eastwood . Four months later, Eastwood’s rambling attack on
an imaginary Obama remains the convention’s  most memorable
moment . I got that one right, as did a lot of other people.  Sealed Fate  Romney’s fate was sealed in September when a  secretly
recorded video  surfaced that showed him a few months earlier at
a fundraising dinner talking about the “47 percent of people who
will vote for the president no matter what” because they rely on
government handouts and “believe that they are victims.” His
job, Romney said, was “not to worry about those people.” An
excellent first debate in Denver wasn’t enough to correct that.
And when voters saw Obama hug Governor  Chris Christie  while
touring New Jersey towns devastated by  Hurricane Sandy , showing
competence and bipartisanship, it was  really over .  Yet Romney always thought he was going to win. For election
night, he prepared not a concession speech but an eight-minute
celebratory  fireworks display  over Boston Harbor.  Romney wasn’t the sorriest player in this sorry political
year. That title might go to former presidential candidate  John Edwards , whose reputation was further degraded even though he
was acquitted of violating campaign-finance laws; or General
David Petraeus, who was forced to resign after an affair with
his adoring biographer was revealed.  Unlike most of this year’s other losers, Romney still has
money, an organization and a band of wealthy donors. So what
should he do with them?  My suggestion is to take on Wayne LaPierre, chief executive
of the  National Rifle Association . LaPierre says he represents
beleaguered gun owners, but his massive war chest comes from the
gun industry (which has provided him with  almost $40 million  in
recent years), not necessarily from NRA members.  What Romney first needs to do is quash the NRA’s  unhinged
crusade  to put armed security guards and out-of-work police
officers at every school. LaPierre announced this last week
after the unspeakable massacre of 20 small children, and some of
the teachers who tried to save them, in a small town in
 Connecticut . The deranged gunman, wielding a military-type
assault weapon, also killed his mother and himself.  Then Romney can lead the campaign for the assault-weapon
ban, which is being readied for the new Congress and is much
tougher than the one that lapsed in 2004. As governor of
 Massachusetts , Romney embraced  gun control ,  signing  an assault-
weapons ban. He could stiffen the resolve of lawmakers whose
fear of the NRA is greater than their grief for dead 6-year-
olds. That’s a battle Romney could be proud of fighting -- even
if, shudder to think, he loses.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 