-- Japan to Deepen Discussions About Trans-Pacific Trade Pact
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2012-12-27T04:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/japan-to-deepen-discussions-about-trans-pacific-trade-pact.html
Japan  will deepen internal
discussions over the  Trans-Pacific Partnership  as Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe considers meeting U.S. President  Barack Obama  next
month, new Agriculture Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi said.  “It is important to have a thorough discussion on it based
on detailed information,” said Hayashi, the 51-year-old former
economy minister, in a news conference in Tokyo today. He
reiterated the policy of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party
that Japan can’t join the trade pact if the nation must agree to
no exceptions on tariff eliminations.  Abe was confirmed by parliament yesterday as Japan’s
seventh prime minister in six years, returning to the office he
left in 2007 after his party regained power in a landslide
election victory last week. He has put a priority on lifting the
world’s third-largest economy from decade-long deflation through
aggressive monetary easing, expanded fiscal spending and a
growth strategy for businesses.  Japan, the world’s largest corn importer, is self-
sufficient in rice as the government imposes high tariffs on
imports. The government also protects wheat, sugar, meat and
dairy products from foreign competition.  Japan’s biggest business lobby  Keidanren , which includes
Toyota Motor Corp. and Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp., has
urged the government to join the partnership to increase the
competitiveness of the nation’s exporters.  Abe has yet to make a decision on joining the negotiations
after his party members won the Dec. 16 elections with support
from farmer groups opposing to the free-trade agreement.  Hayashi was employed by Japanese trading house Mitsui & Co.
before becoming a lawmaker. He also acted as the defense
minister previously.  The  TPP  started in 2005 with Brunei,  Chile ,  Singapore  and
New Zealand as a pact to open trade of goods, services and
government procurement among members, building on the principles
of the World Trade Organization. Among its goals are abolishing
export duties and subsidies for agricultural goods.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in  Tokyo  
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  