-- Japan May Move on Joining U.S.-led Trade Talks Under Abe
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-12-27T08:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/japan-may-move-on-joining-us-led-trade-talks-under-shinzo-abe.html
Japan ’s new government may move to
join U.S.-led trade talks as the Abe administration seeks to
help exporters and strengthen ties with the nation’s main ally
amid rising tensions with China.  “Japan will deepen discussions on the Trans-Pacific Trade
Partnership,” Agriculture Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi said at a
press conference today in Tokyo. His ministry oversees an
industry that has led opposition to the TPP out of concern it
would hurt domestic farmers. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe told
reporters late yesterday that Japan would “comprehensively
consider” joining the talks.  The pact would help companies from Toyota Motor Corp. to
 Kobe Steel Ltd. (5406)  compete with rivals from South Korea, which
already has a free-trade deal with the U.S. Obstacles include
the powerful farming lobby, a key support base for Abe’s  Liberal
Democratic Party , as he looks to solidify its hold on power in
upper house elections in July.  “Abe is likely to make clear that joining the TPP is part
of his long-term strategy,” when he meets U.S. President  Barack Obama  next year, said Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at JPMorgan
Securities Japan Co. and a former central bank official. “Still,
agriculture has very strong lobbying powers, so entry into
negotiations won’t happen until after the upper house
elections.”  ‘Appropriate’ Decision  JA Group, the nation’s main farming lobby, said in a
statement today that it is convinced the LDP will make an
“appropriate” decision on whether to join TPP negotiations. On
Dec. 17, the group said it expects the new government to oppose
joining the talks.  The incoming government has set a priority on a
supplementary budget to stoke growth in an economy that’s
forecast to shrink for a third straight quarter in the three
months through December. Economy Minister Akira Amari told
reporters in Tokyo today that the prime minister instructed
ministries to submit their requests for emergency economic
measures and an extra budget by Jan. 7.  “The LDP will focus on short-term policies to support the
economy to gain more popularity, which means they are likely to
postpone deciding controversial policies such as TPP,”  Kyohei Morita , chief economist at Barclays Plc in Tokyo, said last week
after the LDP swept to victory in elections for the lower house
of Parliament.  Target Completion  The TPP started in 2005 with Brunei, Chile,  Singapore  and
New Zealand as a pact to open trade of goods, services and
government procurement among members, building on the principles
of the  World Trade Organization . Among its goals are abolishing
export duties and subsidies for agricultural goods.  The U.S. aims to complete the TPP talks by the end of next
year. Negotiators will meet in Singapore in early March for the
16th round of talks aimed at bringing down tariffs,
strengthening patent protection and allowing greater access to
government contracts. At the moment, 11 countries are involved
in talks -- Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Malaysia, Mexico,
 New Zealand , Peru, Singapore, the U.S. and Vietnam.  Abe’s predecessor  Yoshihiko Noda  didn’t join the talks as
his  Democratic Party  of Japan dithered over the decision to
participate in the Asia-Pacific trade bloc that will include
demands to eliminate tariffs on protected goods.  After Noda met Obama in Honolulu in November 2011 at the
Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, the U.S. released a
statement that Noda had said he was willing to negotiate on all
of his country’s goods and services in the TPP talks, which
Japan then denied.  At stake is Japan’s participation in what would be the
biggest U.S. trade deal since the 1994  North American Free Trade
Agreement . U.S. automakers have opposed Japan’s participation,
arguing the country can’t be counted on to lower import barriers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  