-- Jets to Start Sanchez at Quarterback as McElroy Has Concussion
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-12-27T17:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/jets-to-start-sanchez-at-quarterback-as-mcelroy-has-concussion.html
The New York Jets will start Mark Sanchez at quarterback for their season finale against the
Buffalo Bills because Greg McElroy has a concussion, coach Rex Ryan said.  McElroy approached the Jets’ trainers today, four days
after getting sacked a team record-tying 11 times in a 27-17
loss to the San Diego Chargers, and told them he had been
feeling effects of a concussion since the game, Ryan said at a
news conference.  “I was stunned by it,” Ryan said.  “I admire his courage
and everything else, but you have to be truthful and I think
that’s a lesson learned here with the medical staff. He really
wanted to play and I understand the competitive side of players,
but the most important thing is the health of the players.”  McElroy was 14-for-24 passing for 185 yards and one
interception in the loss that dropped the Jets’ record to 6-9.
It was his first National Football League start after replacing
Sanchez in the Jets’ lineup.  Tim Tebow, having served as Sanchez’s backup throughout the
season, told reporters he was disappointed with being skipped
over for McElroy, a third-string player, when Ryan decided to
bench Sanchez following a five-turnover performance against the
Tennessee Titans on Dec. 17.  Ryan said today he decided to reinsert Sanchez rather than
give Tebow a start because there are only two practices
remaining before the Dec. 30 game at Buffalo and because Sanchez
had success in the season-opener against the Bills. Sanchez was
19-of-27 passing for 266 yards with three touchdowns and an
interception in that contest, which New York won 48-28.  ‘Short Window’  “With the situation the way it is, it’s a short window to
get the preparation time in, I just think it’s best for our
football team,” Ryan said. “That doesn’t mean that Tim won’t
play in this game.”  Ryan declined to specifically address reports that prior to
the Chargers game Tebow said he wouldn’t direct the Wildcat
offense, which uses a combination of quarterback passes and
runs. Tebow later told reporters he never refused to run the
plays.  “I can definitely understand the frustrations of not
getting the opportunity to play as much as he would have
liked,” Ryan said today. “I believe if Tim would have been
asked to do something, he would have gone in the game and done
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  