-- Jets Signing Sanchez Made Little Sense to NFL Statisticians
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-12-27T17:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/jets-signing-sanchez-made-little-sense-to-some-nfl-statisticians.html
In a National Football League era
dominated by elite quarterbacks, past seasons’ statistics help
show that the  New York  Jets haven’t had one in a long time.  Mark Sanchez’s fourth year with the franchise after being
drafted No. 5 has been his least successful. The 6-9 team will
end its season on Dec. 30 at the Buffalo Bills.  Sanchez, who was given a new salary-cap draining contract
in March that guaranteed him a combined $20.5 million in 2012
and 2013, quarterbacked the Jets to the American Football
Conference’s championship game his first two seasons. Statistics
show that the 26-year-old perhaps didn’t deserve the extension
or a place in the team’s starting lineup even with the winning
records.  “To give Sanchez an extension in the offseason was
monumentally ridiculous,” said Aaron Schatz, editor-in-chief of
 FootballOutsiders.com , which uses advanced statistics to analyze
player values. “His performance is the equivalent of your
average backup quarterback.”  Sanchez had 13 touchdown passes and 17 interceptions while
completing 54.8 percent of his passes before being benched
following five turnovers in a Dec. 17 loss to  Tennessee  that
ended the Jets’ playoff hopes. He’s had 50 turnovers the last
two seasons.  Sanchez will return to the first string for the finale.
Greg McElroy, who got his initial career start in a 27-17 loss
to the San Diego Chargers four days ago, informed the staff
today that he was feeling the effects of a concussion suffered
during the game, coach Rex Ryan said at a news conference.  Statistical Start  Sanchez threw for 12 touchdowns and 20 interceptions as a
rookie in 2009, then seemed to improve the following year,
tossing 17 scoring passes while being picked off 13 times.
Another 15 of his passes in 2010 should have been interceptions
but were dropped by defenders, according to
FootballOutsiders.com.  “That’s the most dropped interceptions we’ve tracked from
any quarterback in the four years we’ve been doing this,”
Schatz said in a telephone interview.  The website uses a ranking called DYAR, which stands for
Defense-Adjusted Yards Above Replacement. The metric measures
how a player’s performance compares to generic “replacement-
level” players in the same situation. Out of 39 quarterbacks
who have thrown 100 passes this season,  Sanchez ranks last . He
also ranks 34th in rushing out of 34 quarterbacks who’ve
attempted at least seven runs.  Rookie Preferred  “There’s no reason why you would want Mark Sanchez right
now instead of a rookie you could get in the second or third
round,” Schatz said.  Backup Tim Tebow wasn’t trusted to become a starter when
Sanchez was benched. McElroy, a third-stringer who was a
seventh-round 2011 draft pick, was sacked a team record-tying 11
times by the San Diego Chargers.  “Clearly, the die is cast,” Brian Billick, the Super
Bowl-winning coach of the Baltimore Ravens in the 2000 season
who is now an analyst for Fox Sports, said in a telephone
interview. “You’ve got to go in a different direction. It’s
hard to imagine that they believe McElroy is going to be the
long-term answer. We know Tim Tebow is not.”  Tebow’s Role  Tebow, acquired in an offseason trade with Denver, probably
will be released and play with the Jacksonville Jaguars next
season, ESPN reported. Brought in to operate the Jets’ wildcat
offensive packages that mix quarterback runs and passes, Tebow
told reporters he was disappointed that Ryan chose to start
McElroy against the Chargers. Prior to the game, Tebow informed
his coaches he didn’t want to be used in the wildcat, ESPN said,
citing multiple unidentified people in the Jets’ organization.
Yesterday, Tebow denied that he had asked not to be used for the
plays.  NFL teams no longer can win Super Bowls without elite
quarterbacks, as the Ravens did with Trent Dilfer and the Tampa
Bay Buccaneers did with Brad Johnson two years later, Billick
said.  Aided by one of the best single-season defenses in NFL
history, Baltimore’s title came during an era devoid of elite
quarterbacks, Billick said. Future Hall of Famers such as John Elway, Troy Aikman, Steve Young and Dan Marino were retiring and
current top-level players such as Peyton and Eli Manning, Drew Brees and Ben Roethlisberger were emerging or in college.  Different Era  “There was a void there but now it’s changed,” Billick
said. “Can you win games? Yes. Can you be a good team? Yes. Can
you win a championship? No. Not without solid play at the
quarterback position.”  The top quarterback prospects for the 2013 NFL draft are
the University of Southern California’s Matt Barkley, West
 Virginia ’s Geno Smith and North Carolina State’s Mike Glennon,
according to Russ Lande, a former scout for the Cleveland Browns
and St. Louis Rams.  Barkley is most prepared to play in the NFL because he’s
been in a pro system and is very intelligent, though not a great
physical talent, said Lande, scouting director for the National
Football Post.  Smith, a strong-armed quarterback with a very good
understanding of the game, “needs a lot of technical work” on
his footwork and mechanics, while Glennon, a 6-foot-5 passer
with a strong arm and poise, is slow to release the ball, Lande
said.  “There is nobody that I’ve spoken to that has told me,
‘This guy is the guy,’” Lande said of his conversations with
other NFL talent evaluators. “Every guy, there’s concerns and
questions about.”  Calling Turner  Both Lande and Schatz suggested the best option for the
Jets would be to hire Norv Turner as offensive coordinator if
the 60-year-old is let go as coach of the Chargers, who are also
6-9. Turner, with a reputation of being a strong developer of
quarterbacks, was the Dallas Cowboys’ offensive coordinator from
1991 to 1993, when the team won two Super Bowls.  “Let Norv try to fix Sanchez and give him a young guy to
work with in case Sanchez never makes it,” Lande said.  Ryan made Sanchez his first draft pick in 2009. The recent
formula for new NFL coaches is to find a young quarterback with
whom to build a team, said Billick, citing successful pairings
of Atlanta Falcons coach Mike Smith and Matt Ryan, and current
Ravens coach John Harbaugh and  Joe Flacco .  “Rex reached out to get Sanchez and it didn’t turn out,”
Billick said. “Typically when you miss on a first-round
quarterback, it costs you. The question is, are you going to be
given another chance?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  