-- Kenya’s Separatist MRC Group Calls for Boycott of March Vote
-- B y   B e n a r d   S a n g a   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-12-27T08:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/kenya-s-separatist-mrc-group-calls-for-boycott-of-march-vote-1-.html
Kenya’s separatist  Mombasa 
Republican Council, which says it has 2 million members seeking
self-rule in the country’s coastal region, called for a peaceful
boycott of next year’s general elections.  The vote will be the first since 2007, when a dispute over
the outcome triggered ethnic clashes in which more than 1,100
people died and another 350,000 were forced to flee their homes.
The government in October announced it would take tougher action
against the MRC as it sought to allay concerns the group may
instigate a repeat of the violence at the March 4 vote.  “We will boycott the elections,” MRC Secretary-General
Randu Ndzai Ruwa said in an interview on Dec. 24. “We don’t
have a plan to disrupt anything though because it would result
in the loss of life and property.”  The MRC says the coastal region, which serves as the main
gateway for East African trade, has been marginalized from
centralized power in the capital, Nairobi, leaving its residents
poor and jobless. The MRC wants indigenous people to have more
control over the port of Mombasa,  East Africa ’s biggest, and
reap greater benefits from beach-tourism revenue as well as
investment in titanium, iron-ore, gold and oil exploration in
the area.  “The region has been marginalized and it’s lagging behind
in terms of development compared with other regions,” Ruwa
said.  Poverty  Almost 1.4 million people in Kenya’s Coast Province, or
about 60 percent of the population, live in poverty compared
with the national average of about 53 percent of people who are
too poor to pay for basic goods, according  data  compiled by the
country’s statistics bureau and the  World Bank .  Kenyan police have arrested senior MRC members including
Chairman Omar Mwamnwadzi since the government crackdown began
two months ago. The authorities have recovered weapons including
grenades and bows and arrows during several raids.  The group, whose motto is Pwani Si  Kenya , or ‘The Coast is
Not Kenya’ in Swahili, is a social movement and doesn’t have an
armed faction, said Ruwa. “We don’t have a military wing and we
have not endorsed any military group,” he said. “The police
are being used to silence us.”  The group’s demands date to a 1963 lease agreement signed
at Kenya’s independence by then-Prime Minister Jomo Kenyatta and
his Zanzibari counterpart, handing Kenya  control  over an almost
20-kilometer (12-mile) wide coastal strip, according to the
Institute for Security Studies. The MRC says the 50-year lease,
which according to the Pretoria-based institute isn’t mentioned
in documents charting Kenya’s independence, elapses next year.  A three-judge panel in a Kenyan court this month blocked
the group’s bid to stop elections on the coast, saying the MRC
is unregistered and therefore has no legal foundation to try and
bar elections on the coast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benard Sanga in Nairobi at 
 bonyari@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net . 