-- Nasdaq OMX on Short List to Follow HP on Writedowns
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-12-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/nasdaq-omx-on-short-list-to-follow-hp-on-writedowns.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ,  WellPoint
Inc. (WLP)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE)  are among 21 large companies to face
potential goodwill writedowns for underperforming acquisitions
like the charge that sapped  Hewlett-Packard Co.’s shares .  Those companies, along with  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ,  Lafarge SA (LG) 
and Cemex SAB, trade at less than book value and carry unusually
large amounts of goodwill relative to market value, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The companies have market
capitalizations that are less than or only slightly higher than
goodwill, which is recorded when the price paid for an
acquisition exceeds the fair value.  Those criteria are the best predictor of a potential
writedown, such as Hewlett-Packard’s $8.8 billion impairment
charge last month, said Charles Mulford, an accounting professor
at Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta. The subjective
analysis companies use to determine whether goodwill value needs
to be reduced leaves “a lot of sponginess” and makes
writedowns difficult to forecast, he said.  “A low market cap relative to book value and relative to
goodwill is a yellow light, it’s a warning sign,” he said in an
interview. “It’s not enough to say, ‘Therefore they must write
down goodwill.’ But that’s the most objective, visible,
generally available indicator of a problem with goodwill.”  Nasdaq ’s $5.29 billion of goodwill at the end of September,
from acquisitions such as the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, the
Boston Stock Exchange and OMX AB, is more than its $4.15 billion
market value. Telecom Italia’s  goodwill  is almost triple its
market capitalization.  Often Overlooked  Goodwill often goes unnoticed by investors and analysts
because it reflects past acquisitions and because the writedowns
are non-cash charges.  The effect on Hewlett-Packard shows why they may want
to pay more attention: Its shares have slid 26 percent since
Aug. 7, the day before the company said it would have a third-
quarter goodwill charge of about $8 billion. And the biggest
goodwill writedowns of the past decade -- including at Time
Warner Inc. and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  -- coincided with
destruction of shareholders’ value.  A goodwill writedown “calls into question managers’
strategic plans and the way they went about executing those
plans,” said Patrick Hopkins, an accounting professor at
 Indiana University  in Bloomington and a member of a Financial
Accounting Standards Board advisory council. “If you start to
call into question that, then you’re starting to call into
question management’s vision.”  Berkshire’s Ratio  A company’s goodwill isn’t by itself a sign of troubled
acquisitions.  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , which
has bought companies ranging from railroads to insurers, had
$54.1 billion of goodwill as of Sept. 30. That’s less than one-
fourth of the Omaha, Nebraska-based company’s $221.3 billion
market capitalization.  France Telecom  and Milan-based Telecom Italia may be facing
writedowns after a decade of “lousy” acquisitions by the phone
companies,  Robin Bienenstock , a Sanford C. Bernstein analyst in
 London , said in an interview.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , which is the
world’s second-largest mobile-phone company, took a 5.9 billion-
pound ($9.5 billion) charge on its Spanish and Italian
businesses in November, and more may come, she said.  “As soon as their businesses started to slow down, rather
than focus on improving returns in their existing business,
these companies went out and paid very high prices for new
business in other places,” Bienenstock said.  Simon Gordon, a spokesman for Newbury, U.K.-based Vodafone,
declined to comment on any future writedown plans. Spokesmen at
Telecom Italia and Paris-based France Telecom had no immediate
comment.  Management Change  A management change can also lead to a goodwill writedown,
as it did for Hewlett-Packard, because it’s easier for a new
chief executive officer to recognize that a past acquisition
didn’t work as planned, Hopkins said in an interview.  In Hewlett-Packard’s case, the  Palo Alto , California-based
company cited the purchase of software maker Autonomy Corp. in
August 2011, a month before  Meg Whitman  became CEO.  WellPoint, the second-largest U.S. provider of health
plans, may fit that pattern, Brian Wright, a Monness, Crespi,
Hardt & Co. analyst in  New York , said in an interview.  Angela Braly resigned under investor pressure in August as
CEO of WellPoint, which plans to fill the post by March.
WellPoint is trading at about 20 percent below book value, after
the Indianapolis-based company made more than $11 billion of
acquisitions since 2005.  ‘Legacy Artifact’  “You have to revisit everything if you’re going to turn
around an organization,” said Wright, who recommends buying
WellPoint shares. He said that WellPoint’s acquisitions made
sense even if it may have overpaid and that any goodwill
writedown wouldn’t affect his valuation of the company.  The goodwill “is just a legacy artifact,” he said. “The
assets are solid assets.”  Kristin Binns, a WellPoint spokeswoman, didn’t respond to
telephone and e-mail messages seeking comment.  The  Financial Accounting Standards Board  eliminated
amortization of goodwill in 2001, leaving it on a company’s
books indefinitely unless it’s written down, said Don Walker, a
senior managing director at FTI Consulting in Washington who
worked 17 years at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
as a senior assistant chief accountant.  “In a lot of cases, people may pay more than fair value of
the assets and liabilities that they take on because they have
an expectation of positive future cash flows,” he said in an
interview. “But sometimes those positive future cash flows
don’t happen.”  Cement Acquisitions  A flurry of acquisitions among cement makers before a
global construction recession increased goodwill at companies
such as Paris-based Lafarge. After impairment charges of 160
million euros ($212 million) in this year’s second quarter and
285 million euros in 2011, the company still had 12.5 billion
euros of goodwill as of Sept. 30. Lafarge has a market
capitalization of 13.7 billion euros, and trades at 85 percent
of its book value per share.  “Lafarge has a greater goodwill than its competitors
because it grew more through acquisitions,” Phil Roseberg, a
London-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein who rates its
shares underperform, said in an interview. “Has this growth
through acquisitions created value? The answer is no.”  Melanie Coviaux, a Lafarge spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Cemex, the largest cement maker in the Americas, and
 HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  both have goodwill that’s higher than stock-
market value. Andreas Schaller, a HeidelbergCement spokesman,
said the Heidelberg, Germany-based company has posted writedowns
of 494 million euros since 2009 and will publish results of its
annual goodwill review in March.  U.S. Unit  The U.S. construction market is improving, which argues
against a need for goodwill impairment at Cemex’s unit in that
country, Maher Al-Haffar, the Monterrey, Mexico-based company’s
investor relations chief, said in an interview. At the end of
the third quarter, the U.S. unit carried a majority of Cemex’s
142.7 billion pesos ($11.1 billion at that time) of goodwill.  At Nasdaq, the SEC in September requested information on
goodwill calculations, according to company regulatory filings.
Nasdaq cited a confidentiality clause to keep some of its
answers from becoming public. Joseph Christinat, a spokesman for
the New York-based company, declined to comment.  Predicting large goodwill writedowns is difficult because
there’s no one equation to calculate whether a reduction in the
value is needed, Hopkins said.  “It’s more an art than a science,” he said. “Accounting
is notoriously late in delivering news.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  