-- NBA’s Brooklyn Nets Fire Coach Avery Johnson, Carlesimo Steps In
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-12-28T06:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/nba-s-brooklyn-nets-fire-coach-avery-johnson-after-3-10-slump.html
Avery Johnson was fired yesterday as
coach of the  Brooklyn  Nets, with the team at .500 after starting
the National Basketball Association season 11-4.  General Manager Billy King said a search for Johnson’s
successor would begin immediately. P.J. Carlesimo will run the
club on an interim basis, King said at a news conference.  The Nets tonight host the  Charlotte  Bobcats, who have lost
16 straight games. Brooklyn is coming off a loss to the
Milwaukee Bucks 108-93 Dec. 26, their 10th loss in 13 games
which dropped their season record to 14-14. The team hasn’t
beaten an opponent with a winning record since Nov. 28. Johnson
was 60-116 in two-plus seasons with the Nets.  “The direction we were going, we just felt we had to make
a change,” King said. “Watching us, we just didn’t have the
same fire we had when we were 11-4. I talked to Avery about it
and we just couldn’t figure it out.”  The Nets moved this season to the $1 billion Barclays
Center in Brooklyn from  Newark , New Jersey, and started the
campaign as one of the NBA’s hottest teams, setting a franchise
record with 11 wins in their first 15 games.  They beat the  New York  Knicks in overtime in the first
meeting of the new city rivals, and entertainer Jay-Z, one of
their minority owners, proclaimed on Twitter: “The city is
under new management.”  Quick Fall  Johnson was named the NBA’s Eastern Conference coach of the
month for games played in October and November, and the Nets’
record at the end of that stretch tied for the most victories in
the conference. He came to the Nets with a 194-70 (.735)
coaching record, the highest winning percentage in NBA history.  This time, the winning didn’t last, and cracks appeared on
the court and in the locker room.  Center Brook Lopez missed time with a foot injury as the
slump began. Then All-Star guard Deron Williams complained last
week that the offensive system Johnson ran, which isolates
players for shots, wasn’t working and should be replaced by one
with more flexibility and motion.  “I just got a sense -- and I told Avery this this morning
-- he just wasn’t reaching them anymore,” King said. “He tried
a lot of different lineups and I give him credit for that, but
it just didn’t seem to work. It happens in sports. It isn’t
fair. We just didn’t like the way things were going.”  Two nights ago in  Milwaukee , Williams was on the bench in a
gray suit with a wrist injury in what became Johnson’s last game
in charge.  “It’s something that I guess had to happen,” Johnson said
at a news conference yesterday. “We just went through a bad
stretch, but I always thought we were going to get it turned
around.”  The Knicks, now leading the Atlantic Division at 21-8,
defeated the Nets at Madison Square Garden 100-86 on Dec. 18 to
drop Brooklyn to 13-12.  King said the decision had little to do with how New York
is playing.  “We’re not just trying to beat the Knicks,” King said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 