-- Broncos’ Manning Sets NFL Pro Bowl Record With 12th Selection
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-27T05:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/nfl-best-nine-49ers-are-selected-to-pro-bowl-texans-have-eight.html
Peyton Manning  of the Denver Broncos
was selected to the National Football League’s Pro Bowl for the
12th time in his career, surpassing  Brett Favre  for the most
career invitations to the All-Star game for a quarterback.  Manning, 36, has passed for 4,355 yards, 34 touchdowns and
11 interceptions during his first season in Denver after 14
years with the Indianapolis Colts. He returns to the Pro Bowl
after sitting out last season following neck fusion surgery.  Manning was among 84 players selected yesterday for the
Jan. 27 Pro Bowl, which pits the American Football Conference
against the National Football Conference in Honolulu the week
before the  Super Bowl . Only four players in NFL history have
made more Pro Bowl appearances, with former offensive lineman
Bruce Matthews holding the record of 14 from 1988 to 2001.  “It’s a tremendous honor and I am very humbled to receive
this recognition,” said Manning, who has led the Broncos to 10
straight wins. “Being voted to the Pro Bowl by your opponents,
their coaches and, of course, the fans means a great deal to me,
especially when you consider how many other quarterbacks in the
AFC are having outstanding seasons.”  Manning is joined on the AFC roster by quarterbacks  Tom Brady  of the New England Patriots and  Matt Schaub  of the Houston
Texans. The Texans had eight players selected to the AFC squad,
including defensive end J.J. Watt, a first-time representative
who leads the NFL with 20 1/2 sacks this season.  Seven Patriots  Brady is among seven Patriots on the AFC team, while the
Baltimore Ravens have six selections, followed by the Broncos
with five. Manning and Denver cornerback Champ Bailey are the
ninth and 10th players in NFL history with 12 Pro Bowl trips.  The  San Francisco  49ers had a league-best nine players
picked for the NFC roster.  While the AFC will have seven first-time representatives,
the NFC roster has 17, including Washington Redskins rookie
quarterback Robert Griffin III.  Aaron Rodgers  of the  Green Bay Packers  is the NFC’s
starting quarterback for the second straight season, with
Griffin and  Matt Ryan  of the Atlanta Falcons as backups. Rodgers
leads the NFL with a 106.2 passer rating.  Minnesota Vikings running back  Adrian Peterson , who has an
NFL-best 1,898 rushing yards, is joined on the NFC squad by
Marshawn Lynch of the Seahawks and  Frank Gore  of the 49ers.  Cruz’s First  Arian Foster  of the Texans is the AFC’s starting running
back, with Jamaal Charles of the Kansas City Chiefs and  Ray Rice 
of the Baltimore Ravens as backups.  Victor Cruz of the New York Giants was selected to his
first Pro Bowl and he’s joined at wide receiver on the NFC team
by the Detroit Lions’ Calvin Johnson, Atlanta’s Julio Jones and
 Brandon Marshall  of the Chicago Bears.  The AFC’s receivers are  Andre Johnson  of the Texans, A.J. Green of the Cincinnati Bengals, Reggie Wayne of the Colts and
Wes Welker of the Patriots.  Falcons tight end Tony Gonzalez was selected to the Pro
Bowl for the 13th time in his career, joining  Jerry Rice  and
Reggie White for the second-most appearances behind Matthews.  The All-Star series between the teams is tied at 21-21
after the AFC’s 59-41 win last season. Each player on the
winning team will receive $50,000, with those on the losing
squad get $25,000, under terms of the NFL’s collective
bargaining agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  