-- Noble Sees Shell’s Alaska Rig Ready for Drilling in 2013
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-12-27T19:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/noble-sees-shell-s-alaska-rig-ready-for-drilling-in-2013.html
Noble Corp. (NE)  expects to have its
Noble Discoverer rig ready for  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to resume
drilling in Alaska’s  Chukchi Sea  next year, after fixing issues
raised during a U.S. Coast Guard inspection.  The Coast Guard determined the ship’s propulsion and safety
management systems need attention, the Zug, Switzerland-based
company said in a statement today. Noble expects to fix the ship
before the Arctic drilling season begins when sea ice clears in
six months or so, said John Breed, a company spokesman in  Sugar
Land ,  Texas .  Shell invested $4.5 billion in offshore leases and
equipment and fought at least 50 lawsuits from environmental
groups to begin drilling in the Chukchi, the first wells in the
Arctic waters in about 20 years. The Hague-based company is
operating the rig under a two-year contract at a rate of
$240,000 a day, according to a Dec. 6 Noble  report .  The Coast Guard is “looking at the vessel from a
performance standpoint and they’re asking us to look into this
further,” Breed said. “We’re developing a hit list of items
they want us to address.”  Inspectors based in Anchorage boarded the ship after it
lost propulsion while docking at the southern  Alaska  port of
Seward in late November, Kip Wadlow, a Juneau-based Coast Guard
spokesman, said today in an interview.  ‘Serious Discrepancies’  “They found several serious discrepancies with the crew
safety and pollution-prevention equipment on board the vessel,”
Wadlow said. Captain of the Port Paul Mehler on Nov. 29 issued a
detention order that held the ship at Seward until repairs
brought it up to U.S. and international safety standards, he
said.  Mehler lifted the order Dec. 19, Wadlow said. Noble plans
to have the Discoverer towed to a shipyard to repair its
propulsion system and undergo routine maintenance, he said.  Noble’s review found that the ship may have improperly
discharged on-board water when it wasn’t drilling. The Coast
Guard inspection, begun last month, continues.  After six years of preparation, Shell began drilling in
September off the northwest coast of Alaska, two months later
than planned. A day later, drilling was halted and the rig was
moved to avoid encroaching sea ice.  Shallow Wells  The Arctic operations suffered another setback days later
when a containment dome designed to cap a potential spill was
damaged. Shell decided it wouldn’t have time this year to drill
deep enough to reach oil in the Chukchi. Instead, it drilled a
series of shallow exploratory wells and plans to go deeper in
2013,  Marvin Odum , president of Shell’s U.S. unit, told
reporters on Nov. 29.  Noble Discoverer was inspected by the U.S. Coast Guard in
July after it slipped its moorings and drifted toward shore in
the Aleutian Islands. The ship, now docked at Seward, Alaska,
will move to Vigor Industrial LLC’s  shipyard  in  Seattle  for
service and maintenance, Breed said.  “It’s advantageous that the drilling season is behind
us,” Breed said. “We have a long period during which we can do
this sort of maintenance. The rig was scheduled to be down for
maintenance anyway.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  