-- NYC Will Face ‘Modest’ $811 Million Budget Gap in 2014
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-12-27T23:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/nyc-to-face-modest-811-million-deficit-in-2014-report-says.html
New York City ’s projected deficit in
the next fiscal year may have narrowed to $811 million, or about
30 percent less than Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s forecast last
month, the  Independent Budget Office  said.  The publicly funded agency, a nonpartisan fiscal monitor,
said in an annual report that the budget gap in the year
beginning July 1 was “relatively modest,” amounting to about
1.6 percent of expected city-generated revenue.  Still, the most populous U.S. city and its next mayor, who
takes office Jan. 1, 2014, will face higher unbudgeted expenses,
such as unsettled contracts with teachers and other workers,
costs of rebuilding after  Hurricane Sandy  and protecting against
future storms, the agency said.  “When  Mayor Bloomberg  assumed office 11 years ago, he said
he wanted to leave the city in better financial shape than he
found it, and these numbers would suggest he’s done so,” said
IBO Director Ronnie Lowenstein. “But the fiscal outlook might
not be as bright as the gap numbers make it appear.”  William Thompson , 59, a former city comptroller who opposed
Bloomberg for mayor in 2009 and has expressed interest in
running in next year, said the report showed the mayor and City
Council Speaker Christine Quinn “continue to kick the fiscal
can down the road” by leaving contracts with city workers
unresolved.  Potential Rivals  Quinn, 46, a potential Thompson rival for the Democratic
mayoral nomination, didn’t have an immediate response to his
comments, said Maria Alvarado, a spokeswoman. Her position
doesn’t give her a formal role in bargaining over contracts with
municipal unions.  The mayor, who’s legally barred from seeking a fourth term
next year, intends to present a proposed budget for fiscal 2014,
which begins July 1, by early February, said  Marc LaVorgna , his
press secretary.  In a November report modifying the current year’s $69
billion budget, Bloomberg announced $1.6 billion in spending
cuts through June 2014, and said he still needed to close a
$1.15 billion deficit for the coming fiscal year, a reduction
from $2.5 billion forecast last June.  The IBO predicted more revenue than the mayor forecast in
every category except  sales tax ,  totaling $764 million  more than
the administration’s projections for the current budget year and
the next combined. The agency also said the city probably would
spend $428 million more than the administration had estimated
during that period.  The IBO also forecasts 76,300 new jobs to be created next
year, about 4,300 more than the administration estimated.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg news
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  