-- NYSE Was Overtaken by Something It Never Saw Coming
-- B y   A m y   B u t t e
-- 2012-12-27T23:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/nyse-was-overtaken-by-something-it-never-saw-coming.html
Do you remember going to birthday
parties as a child and playing musical chairs? The game started
off with a lot of excitement, slowed down in the middle as the
competitive kids dominated the action, then grew frantic when
only two or three chairs remained. This is the same pattern
followed by financial-market exchange consolidation.  When I worked at the  New York Stock Exchange (NYX)  in 2004, we
had two strategic mandates. First, understand the business and
determine the competitive landscape. Second, use game theory as
a basis for good strategic choices.  The game theory, the potential combinations written on a
white board, is what is playing out now. The objective, at the
time, was to ensure that the NYSE maintained control and was the
buyer, not the seller. We wanted to control our own destiny by
making sure we were a few steps ahead of the competition.  Although the game is still going on, there aren’t many
chairs left and, as last week’s announcement suggests, NYSE
Euronext isn’t among the ones with a chair to sit on.  The NYSE turned out to be much smaller, less profitable and
more vulnerable to competitors than its brand suggested. While
the NYSE controlled more than 90 percent of the U.S. cash-
equities market, its market share -- when accounting for
futures, options and other assets traded on global exchanges --
was less than 5 percent.  Changed Structure  As market structure changed, and became more electronic, so
did the economics of the business. Transaction revenue was
dwindling, and listing fees were under scrutiny. New sources of
income needed to be found. We looked to higher growth, wider-
margin businesses in  Europe , clearing and derivatives as the
Holy Grail. New competitors, such as  IntercontinentalExchange
Inc. (ICE) , or ICE, which agreed last week to buy the NYSE Euronext
for $8.2 billion, entered the business with few barriers and
little baggage, good or bad. Many of these newcomers had a
public currency and multibillion-dollar market values.  Meanwhile, the NYSE struggled to convince its members and
regulators that the game was changing and that the exchange
needed to change, as well. The next step was to determine what
action to take. Imagine the first moves in a game of chess; good
players try to think a few moves ahead. If the goal was to be
more efficient, one deal alone wasn’t going to do the trick.  Key assumptions on the white board started to take form:
Smaller exchanges, such as the Irish Stock Exchange, Archipelago
Exchange and Chicago Board of Trade, would be gobbled up.
Deutsche Boerse AG, with its complicated ownership structure,
might wait too long or move too slowly. At the end of every
anticipated scenario, Nasdaq was acquired by a larger exchange.  The biggest assumption was that the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange (now  CME Group Inc. (CME) ), with a market value larger than
the NYSE, would be big enough to be a buyer under almost any
circumstances. It didn’t want to enter the slower-growing and
less regulator-friendly cash-equities market, meaning the NYSE
probably wouldn’t be one of its targets.  In an odd twist, the combination of the NYSE and ICE may
force the CME and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  together in order to
maintain balance in the U.S. markets.  Finally, what I find so remarkable is what wasn’t foreseen
back then. I don’t recall anyone anticipating that ICE would be
one of last ones still playing the game.  For me, and perhaps like so many who grew up on  Wall
Street , it is a bittersweet day. It isn’t surprising that the
economics of the cash-equities business don’t dominate the
competitive landscape. We aren’t surprised now that ICE, its
management and board have done so well. We probably aren’t
surprised that previous deals that would have maintained the
NYSE stature and independence fell through. However, we can feel
sentimental that a once-great institution is no longer on top or
in control.  (Amy Butte is the former chief financial officer of the  New
York  Stock Exchange. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amy Butte at  amy@amybutteliebowitz.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 