-- Oil Drops From Two-Month High on U.S. Budget Standoff
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-12-27T21:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/oil-fluctuates-near-two-month-high-on-u-s-budget-talks.html
Crude fell from the highest price in
more than two months as Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said
lawmakers and President  Barack Obama  are unlikely to reach a
deal to avert a fiscal crisis.  Oil slipped amid few signs of an agreement to prevent $600
billion in automatic U.S. tax increases and spending cuts set to
begin Jan. 1, known collectively as the fiscal cliff. Reid said
today that there is not enough time to resolve the dispute
before the first of the year. Earlier, futures advanced as
 jobless claims  fell.  “Reid said we are going to go over the cliff and traders
are backing away until next year,” said  Phil Flynn , senior
market analyst at the Price Futures Group in Chicago. “The
fiscal cliff is really holding back oil. It’s taking a toll on
the psychology of the market.”  Crude oil for February delivery slipped 11 cents to settle
at $90.87 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  after
rising to $91.44, the highest intraday level since Oct. 19.
Trading volume for West Texas Intermediate futures contracts was
down 40 percent from the 100-day average.  Prices were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  reported oil inventories dropped 1.17 million barrels
last week to 370.5 million. Crude gained 13 cents to $91.11 a
barrel at 4:58 p.m. in electronic trading. It was at $91.02
before the report was released at 4:30 p.m.  Oil also rebounded in electronic trading after the
settlement as the  House of Representatives  planned to hold its
first Sunday session in more than two years, fueling optimism a
budget deal will be reached. Republican members agreed to the
Dec. 30 session on a call today with House GOP leaders.  WTI-Brent Spread  Brent oil for February settlement slid 27 cents to $110.80
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe . The number of
contracts trading was 53 percent lower than the 100-day average.
The European benchmark crude was at a premium of $19.93 to WTI.  WTI has declined 8.1 percent in 2012 as a U.S. shale boom
deepened the  glut  at Cushing,  Oklahoma , America’s biggest
storage hub. That has left it at an average $17.47 below Brent
this year, compared with a premium of about 95 cents in the 10
years through 2010. Brent, the benchmark grade for more than
half the world’s crude, has risen 3.2 percent this year.  A failure to reach an agreement on the budget plan might
push the U.S., the world’s biggest crude consuming country, into
recession for the first half of 2013, the nonpartisan
 Congressional Budget Office  has said.  Budget Talks  “I don’t know time-wise how it can happen now,” Reid, a
Nevada Democrat, said on the Senate floor today. He also said
that House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, should call
members back to deal with the fiscal issues.  Obama and the Democratic-led Senate returned to  Washington 
today to resume negotiations.  “We might have a couple of choppy days,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It hinges on whether we get some kind
of agreement in Washington.”  Obama is pressing lawmakers to craft an interim deal to
prevent the automatic tax increases and spending cuts. The House
has balked at the higher taxes for top earners that the
president and other Democrats say are needed in any deal.  “To step in front of the possibility of a deal or no deal
in any market including oil would be silly,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com
in  Chicago .  Consumer Confidence  Confidence among U.S. consumers declined more than forecast
in December as the budget debate soured Americans’ outlook for
the economy. The Conference Board’s  index  of sentiment fell to
65.1 from a revised 71.5 reading the prior month, figures from
the New York-based private research group showed. The gauge was
projected to fall to 70 in a Bloomberg survey showed.  Oil also followed losses in U.S. equities. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.1 percent. It dropped as much as 1.3
percent in intraday trading before rebounding on the plans for
the House session.  Crude rose earlier after the Labor Department said
applications for  jobless benefits  decreased 12,000 to 350,000 in
the week ended Dec. 22. The four-week  moving average  of claims,
a less-volatile measure, dropped to 356,750, the lowest level
since March 2008.  “It’s a good jobless claims number, but it’s overshadowed
by the fiscal cliff,” Ilczyszyn said.  U.S. oil  stockpiles  probably dropped 1.75 million barrels,
or 0.5 percent, in the week ended Dec. 21 to 369.9 million, the
least since Oct. 12, according to the median of 10 analyst
estimates surveyed before an Energy Department report tomorrow.  The weekly report is scheduled for release at 11 a.m.
tomorrow in Washington, two days later than usual because of the
Christmas holiday. The API report was also two days late.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  