-- Tokyo Electric Sued by U.S. Sailors Exposed to Radiation
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-12-27T08:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/tokyo-electric-sued-by-u-s-sailors-exposed-to-radiation.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , owner of
the power plant which had the world’s biggest nuclear disaster
since 1986, was sued by eight U.S. sailors claiming they were
exposed to radiation and the utility lied about the dangers.  The sailors aboard the  USS Ronald Reagan  nuclear-powered
aircraft carrier were involved in disaster relief operations
following the March 11, 2011 earthquake and tsunami in
northeastern  Japan  that caused the meltdown, according to the
complaint filed in  U.S. federal court  in San Diego on Dec. 21.  Tepco, as the Japanese utility is known, and the Japanese
government conspired to create the false impression radiation
leaking from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant didn’t pose a threat
to the sailors, according to the complaint. As a result the
plaintiffs rushed into areas that were unsafe and too close to
the power plant, exposing them to radiation, the sailors’
lawyers said.  The Japanese government was “lying through their teeth
about the reactor meltdown” as it reassured the crew of USS
Reagan that “everything is under control,” the plaintiffs’
lawyers said in the complaint. “The plaintiffs must now endure
a lifetime of radiation poisoning and suffering.”  The sailors each sought $10 million in damages, $30 million
in punitive damages and a judgment requiring the creation of a
$100 million fund to pay for their medical monitoring and
treatments.  “We can’t comment as we have not received the complaint
document yet,” Yusuke Kunikage, a Tepco spokesman, said by
phone today. “We will consider a response after examining the
claim.”  In July, the Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund
took control of Tepco in return for a 1 trillion yen ($11.7
billion) capital injection after the disaster left the utility
on the brink of bankruptcy. The utility received 1.4 trillion
yen in state funds to compensate those affected by the disaster.  The USS Reagan, a Nimitz-class carrier, has a crew of about
5,000, according to U.S. Navy’s  website .  The case is Lindsay R. Cooper against Tokyo Electric Power
Co. 12-cv-3032. U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 California  ( San Diego ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  