-- Thomas Cook Share Price Surpasses Analyst Targets: London Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   R i s s e r
-- 2012-12-27T16:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/thomas-cook-share-price-surpasses-analyst-targets-london-mover.html
Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG) , the U.K. tour
operator saved by an emergency loan in 2011, rose to the highest
price in more than a year, topping the 12-month targets of all
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, as it started promotions for
2013 holidays.  The stock climbed 5.6 percent to 47.50 pence in  London ,
where the company is based. The average 12-month target of 13
analysts who share their research with Bloomberg is 26.46 pence,
implying that the shares will decline 44 percent.  Thomas Cook is advertising a 10 percent-off sale to
encourage U.K. travelers to book 2013 vacations early, and is
promoting “fly and cruise” holidays such as a trip to
Barcelona followed by a Mediterranean journey on the “Liberty
of the Seas” vessel.  Thomas Cook  shares have more than doubled since late
November as analysts such as James Hollins at Investec said
Chief Executive Officer Harriet Green will probably cut costs
and turn around the business. Green joined in July and is
scheduled to present the outcome of a strategic review in the
new year.  ‘Operating Momentum’  While full-year revenue missed analysts’ estimates, Green
said Nov. 28 that the results “mask the material improvement
that we made in the fourth quarter.”  Thomas Cook “seems to be on the right track and the
operating momentum should improve in 2013,” analysts at Natixis
including Geoffrey d’Halluin said in a note to investors after
the earnings report. Net debt has been reduced but “remains
high,” according to Natixis, which has a neutral recommendation
on the stock.  Analysts’ views about the travel operator’s prospects are
widely divergent. Richard Stuber at Nomura and Ed Birkin at
Barclays are among those who say the stock will decline
precipitously, with targets of 6 pence and 8 pence,
respectively.  Thomas Cook shares have more than tripled this year, while
competitor  TUI Travel Plc (TT/)  has gained about 70 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Risser in London at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at   hharris5@bloomberg.net  