-- Mortgage-Bond Sales Soar on Fed’s Refinance Push: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-12-27T16:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/mortgage-bond-sales-soar-on-fed-s-refinance-push-credit-markets.html
Sales of U.S.-backed mortgage bonds
soared to a three-year high as steps by the Federal Reserve and
Obama administration to make home ownership more affordable
propelled a 34 percent jump in refinancing.  Issuance of securities guaranteed by government-supported
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae has climbed
to $1.72 trillion, compared with $1.22 trillion last year and
$1.73 trillion in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
With weekly  rates  on 30-year home loans falling to record lows
eight times since July, the first increase since 2009 in
 refinancing  has driven total lending to almost $1.8 trillion
this year, double a forecast from the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  in October 2011.  The Fed, the biggest buyer in the $5.2 trillion market, has
purchased about $500 billion of the debt in 2012 as it tries to
stoke the economy while President  Barack Obama  promotes programs
to help more homeowners lower their monthly bills. In September,
the central bank accelerated purchases of mortgage securities by
$40 billion a month for its third round of so-called
quantitative easing, or QE3.  “The supply over the last three months in particular has
been stronger than we anticipated, even given QE3,” Walt Schmidt, a mortgage strategist in  Chicago  at FTN Financial, said
in a telephone interview. The gains partly reflected originators
increasing capacity through hiring, he said.  ‘Only Game’  While issuance of home-loan bonds without U.S. backing also
climbed, sales are below the peaks reached before delinquencies
on the loans helped spark the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression. Sales tied to new home loans quintupled to
$3.5 billion, compared with the record annual pace of $1.2
trillion reached in 2005 and 2006, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  As in the past three years, “the agency mortgage market
was the only game in town for new origination,” Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc strategists Jeana Curro and Ashley Gam wrote
in a 2013 outlook published Dec. 13.  Next year, agency mortgage-bond issuance may slip to $1.65
billion as refinancing remains elevated and higher  Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac insurance fees help push banks to retain more
home loans, they said.  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. rose for a fourth day.
The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, added 1.6 basis points to a mid-price of 96.7
basis points as of 11:45 a.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure, which has climbed from a three-month low on
Dec. 20, typically rises as investor confidence deteriorates and
falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
 debt-market  stress, was little changed at 14.4 basis points as
of 11:44 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors seek
the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows when
they favor assets such as company debentures.  PDVSA Bonds  Bonds of Caracas-based Petroleos de Venezuela SA, or PDVSA,
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, with 33 trades of $1 million or
more as of 11:46 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  U.S. government-backed mortgage bonds have returned 2.5
percent this year through yesterday, beating similar-duration
Treasuries by 1.3 percentage points, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show. In 2011, the home-loan debt gained 6.1
percent, underperforming the government notes by 0.8 percent.  Higher refinancing that lowers mortgage-bond returns by
curbing interest limited the gains even as the Fed’s buying sent
prices to records. Investment-grade corporate bonds in the U.S.
returned 10.1 percent.  Non-agency securities backed by subprime mortgages issued
before the housing market collapsed in 2007 beat most fixed-
income assets, with returns averaging 40.5 percent, Barclays Plc
index data show. After losing 5.5 percent last year, the debt
rallied as home-prices climbed and a calming of  Europe ’s debt
crisis and the Fed’s actions drove investors toward riskier
debt.  Loan Originations  Home-loan originations may rise 21.6 percent in 2012 to
$1.75 trillion, the highest since 2009, as refinancing reaches
$1.25 trillion,  according  to the Mortgage Bankers Association.
Refinancing fell 25 percent last year. Volumes, which peaked at
$3.8 trillion in 2003, may drop to $1.41 trillion next year,
with $818 billion of refinances, the Washington-based group
forecast this month.  At its annual conference in October 2011,  Jay Brinkmann ,
the group’s chief economist, said lending would probably decline
25 percent this year to $900 billion. The association had
predicted declines in refinancing activity for three years
because of its forecasts of rising  interest rates , he said.
Instead, the average rate was at a then-record low.  “One of these years, I guess we’ll get it right,”
Brinkmann said at the time. “It’s really difficult to forecast
interest rates in this environment” because of the Fed’s
involvement in the debt market.  Obama Initiative  In a Dec. 19 commentary, Brinkmann’s group said a drop in
lending next year will be led by a decline in refinancing, with
rates on typical 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages rising to more
than 4 percent.  Many borrowers have already locked in loans at lower rates.
The  average  30-year rate fell as low as 3.31 percent in
November, from 3.95 percent at the end of 2011, according to
 Freddie Mac  surveys. The rate was 3.37 percent in the week ended
Dec. 20.  The Obama administration fueled additional opportunities
for refinancing by pushing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac at the end
of 2011 to expand the Home Affordable Refinance Program, or
HARP, for borrowers with little or no home equity.  Almost 791,000 loans were refinanced under HARP in the
first 10 months of 2012, compared with 400,000 in 2011,
according to a  report  by the  Federal Housing Finance Agency . The
 Federal Housing Administration  began allowing homeowners
replacing older loans to avoid insurance-cost increases.  ‘Steady Approach’  While HARP’s use should begin to taper off by April or May,
further “tweaks” are also possible, Nomura Securities
International analysts led by Ohmsatya Ravi wrote in a Dec. 6
report, predicting gross issuance of $1.65 trillion to $1.7
trillion next year.  Lenders were overwhelmed by demand this year, frustrating
the Fed and pushing  the gap  between loan rates and mortgage-bond
yields higher, with the so-called primary-secondary spread
reaching a record 1.8 percentage points in September, Bloomberg
data show. The difference declined to 1.1 percentage point as of
last week as applications fell and originators added staff.  The narrowing reflects most originators “taking the slow
and steady approach to capacity as a sharp rise in rates poses a
big risk,” said  Scott Buchta , head of fixed-income strategy at
Brean Capital LLC. The fact that the gap is still elevated means
that borrowing costs probably have room to rise more slowly than
yields on mortgage securities if bond rates climb, as lenders
seek to maintain their volumes, he said.  Retaining Loans  In the first 10 months of this year, mortgage lending
employment rose by 8.5 percent, Morgan Stanley analysts Vipul
and Janaki Rao wrote in a Dec. 7 report, citing Bureau of Labor
Statistics data. The growth, which largely started in May,
compared with a 0.9 percent gain in the broader “financial
activity” category of workers, they said.  The analysts forecast gross issuance of $1.58 trillion next
year, as banks restrain the total by retaining new loans to
increase their interest income, and net issuance of about $33
billion. Gross issuance will probably total $1.67 trillion this
year and $1.75 trillion next year assuming interest rates don’t
change, according to Bank of America analysts.  Bank of America analysts led by Satish Mansukhani and  Chris Flanagan  forecast issuance in a range of $1.47 trillion to $2.06
trillion, the highest since 2003, depending on whether borrowing
costs rise or fall by 50 basis points.  The Nomura analysts say issuance will likely decline to
$1.25 trillion to $1.35 trillion if rates back up to 4 percent.  Bank ‘Impediment’  Next year, sales of non-agency securities may rise to $20
billion to $30 billion, according to JPMorgan analysts, while
Bank of America sees $30 billion and Barclays forecasts a climb
to less than $20 billion. Private investors may be called on
even more as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are pushed to create
separate securities that transfer some of their default risks.  Banks present a drag on potential mortgage bonds after the
gap between their deposits and loans this month exceeded $2
trillion for the first time.  Wells Fargo & Co . said it retained $9.8 billion of
mortgages eligible to be packaged into government-backed bonds
last quarter to boost its interest income as the Fed’s buying
makes investment in the securities less attractive. Closed-end
residential loans  held  by commercial banks rose to $1.58
trillion as of Dec. 12, from about $1.53 trillion at the start
of the year, Fed data show.  An “impediment for banks to securitize whole loans is that
most banks would rather hold the loans in portfolio since they
have significant demand for income-generating assets,” Nomura
analysts wrote in the firm’s outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  