-- Toshiba in Talks to Sell Up to 16% of Westinghouse Electric
-- B y   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2012-12-27T09:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/toshiba-in-talks-to-sell-as-much-as-16-of-westinghouse-electric.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502) , the Japanese
manufacturer of nuclear reactors, consumer electronics and home
appliances, is in talks to sell a stake in its Westinghouse
Electric atomic-power unit as industry growth slows.  The company is in discussions with three parties on a
possible sale of as much as 16 percent in the business, Toru
Ohara, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Toshiba, said today by
telephone, confirming comments by President Norio Sasaki
reported earlier by MarketWatch.  The company said in October it had interest from potential
partners and was open to talks as long as it retained majority
control. A sale would allow it to offload shares after being
forced to buy 20 percent of Westinghouse when  Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW) 
exercised an option to sell its stock. It would reduce Toshiba’s
exposure to the nuclear industry following  Japan ’s power-plant
shutdowns and global growth in alternative energies.  “The situation surrounding nuclear power has changed since
the time Toshiba bought Westinghouse, with an increased
production in shale gas in the U.S. and an impact from Fukushima
in Japan,” said Yuichi Ishida, an analyst at Mizuho Investors
Securities Co. “Toshiba bought shares in Westinghouse at a
price that was a bit high, so it will take some time for the
company” to sell the stock.  Toshiba Shareholding  Toshiba paid $4.16 billion for 77 percent of the nuclear-
power services provider in 2006. It nows owns 67 percent after
 Kazakhstan ’s Kazatomprom purchased 10 percent in 2007.  Toshiba is set to acquire 20 percent of Westinghouse from
 Baton Rouge , Louisiana-based Shaw Group next month for 125
billion yen ($1.5 billion), bringing its total holding to 87
percent.  “It has been Toshiba’s idea to keep a 51 percent share and
let others hold the rest,” Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace
Securities Co., said today by phone. “It is good if the company
can bring that to reality.”  Toshiba  rose  3.2 percent to 321 yen at the close of trading
in Tokyo, while Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
gained 0.9 percent. The stock has advanced 1.9 percent this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshinori Eki in  Tokyo  at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  