-- PBOC May Have Shifted Cash to Wealth Funds, China Merchants Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-27T08:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/pboc-may-have-shifted-cash-to-wealth-funds-china-merchants-says.html
China ’s central bank may have added
billions of dollars to the country’s sovereign wealth fund,
 China Merchants Securities (600999)  said after analyzing official data
from last month.  The  People’s Bank of China  may have injected funds into
China Investment Corp. or “have taken similar actions” to
cause a big drop in its  yuan  positions last month, said Xie
Yaxuan, an analyst at the brokerage, who used to work for the
foreign-exchange regulator.  Xie is seeking to explain “conflicting” data. The central
bank’s figures show it sold a net 73.6 billion yuan ($11.8
billion) of foreign currency in November, which would mean the
amount of dollars flowing into the PBOC has fallen. Other
indicators, the including trade surplus, inbound investment and
over-the-counter foreign exchange deals between commercial banks
and their clients, point to the opposite.  “It’s a guess and there’s no hard evidence to prove
that,” said Xie, who has been following China’s capital flows.
“But it’s the only reasonable fact that I can think of to
explain the published data.”  The PBOC’s news department didn’t reply to a faxed question
regarding the issue. Calls to CIC’s public relations office went
unanswered. CIC, set up at the end of 2007 to improve returns on
China’s foreign exchange reserves by investing overseas, has
been applying for funds from the central bank. It received $30
billion from the PBOC in 2011, which came to light in March
2012.  CIC has to apply for fresh funds from the  State
Administration of Foreign Exchange  when it runs short of cash,
CIC Executive Vice President  Jesse Wang  said in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  