-- Poland’s Treasury Seeks to Transfer PKO, PGE, PZU Shares to BGK
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2012-12-27T09:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/poland-s-treasury-seeks-to-transfer-pko-pge-pzu-shares-to-bgk.html
Poland’s Treasury Ministry wants the
government to transfer state-owned stakes in  Polska Grupa
Energetyczna SA (PGE) ,  PKO Bank Polski (PKO)  SA, PZU SA and  Ciech SA (CIE)  to its
Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego to kick start an investment plan.  The stakes will then be sold through the  Warsaw Stock
Exchange (GPW)  and proceeds from the sales used to raise BGK’s
capital, Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski said on Dec. 4.
The government wants to increase the bank’s capital, now at 1.9
billion zloty ($614 million), by 10 billion zloty until the end
of 2015 to increase its lending capabilities, he said.  The government will discuss the Treasury Ministry’s motion
at a cabinet meeting today, according to the  agenda  published on
its website. The BGK-run program aims to boost slowing economic
growth by helping finance investment in the  energy industry  and
infrastructure, Prime Minister Donald Tusk said in parliament on
Oct. 12.  The Treasury Ministry holds a 61.9 percent stake in PGE,
Poland’s biggest utility, and 38.7 percent in Ciech SA, a
chemicals producer. It also keeps 35.2 percent of shares of PZU,
the country’s largest insurer, and 43.6 percent of PKO, the
nation’s biggest bank. By-laws in PZU and PKO allow the Treasury
to retain control by holding a 25 percent stake. The government
plans to start transferring shares to BGK as early as in
January, Budzanowski told TVP Info on Dec. 18.  Tusk announced a 90-billion zloty spending plan for next
six years to spur economic growth, which slowed to a three-year
low of 1.4 percent in the third quarter. Investments shrank 1.5
percent over the past 12 months as the government reduced
spending to reduce the  budget deficit  and as the European
Union’s 2007 to 2013 budget winds down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net  