-- Porsche Wins New York Dismissal of Hedge Funds’ VW Suit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-12-27T20:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/porsche-wins-dismissal-of-hedge-fund-case-over-volkswagen-1-.html
Porsche Automobil Holding SE (PAH3)  won an
appeals court ruling dismissing a lawsuit by hedge funds that
accused the German carmaker of concealing a plan to corner the
market in  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  shares.  There is an “inadequate connection” between New York and
the events at issue in the case, with only e-mails and phone
calls taking place in New York, the Appellate Division of the
state Supreme Court said in a decision today.  “We find that these connections failed to create a
substantial nexus with New York, given that the events of the
underlying transaction otherwise occurred entirely in a foreign
jurisdiction,” an appellate panel said.  Porsche in November asked the appeals court to reverse a
lower court’s decision rejecting its motion to dismiss the 2011
suit by 26 hedge funds including David Einhorn’s Greenlight
Capital Inc.  The funds, which bet that Volkswagen stock would fall,
claimed Stuttgart, Germany-based Porsche misled investors by
denying through much of 2008 that it intended to acquire
Volkswagen and by using manipulative trades to hide its stock
positions. The plaintiffs sought more than $1 billion in
damages.  ‘Important Victory’  “This is an important victory for Porsche. The appeals
court squarely held that these cases do not belong in a New York
state court,” said Robert Giuffra, an attorney for Porsche at
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, said in a statement.  Porsche is also being sued in  Europe  over the issue.  The appeals court said witnesses and documents in the case
are located in  Germany , which provide an “adequate alternative
forum.”  James B. Heaton, an attorney for the plaintiffs, declined
to comment about the decision.  Porsche said on Oct. 26, 2008, that it controlled 74.1
percent of Volkswagen, partly through options, and was seeking
an eventual takeover. The disclosures caused the shares to surge
as short-sellers raced to cover their positions.  Investors in Germany and the U.S. have claimed Porsche lied
about its intentions to take over the carmaker. The failed bid
led Porsche to agree to sell its sports-car business to
Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen as debt soared. That
transaction was completed on Aug. 1 when Volkswagen purchased
the remaining shares in the maker of the 911 sports car for 4.5
billion euros.  The case is Viking Global Equities LP v. Porsche Automobil
Holdings SE, 650435/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  