-- Portugal to Sell Lisbon Airport Operator to Vinci for $4
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-12-27T18:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/portugal-to-sell-lisbon-airport-operator-to-vinci-for-4.html
Portugal’s government agreed to sell
state-owned airport operator ANA-Aeroportos de Portugal SA to
 Vinci SA (DG)  for 3.08 billion euros ($4.07 billion), raising money
for the debt-strapped country.  Vinci’s offer was the highest out of the four binding bids
that the government received for ANA, Maria Luis  Albuquerque ,
Portugal’s secretary of state for treasury, said at a press
conference in Lisbon today. The government plans to conclude the
sale early next year, she said.  Vinci, which operates regional airports in  France  and
Cambodia, beat three other bidders for the company, which
manages airports in Lisbon, Porto and the Algarve region.
Portugal opted to sell ANA after seeking a bailout by the
International Monetary Fund and the European Union last year.  Portugal has already sold stakes in utility company EDP-
Energias de  Portugal  SA and energy-grid operator REN-Redes
Energeticas Nacionais. It still plans to sell state-owned
airline TAP SGPS SA after rejecting an offer from Brazilian
investor German Efromovich last week.  With the sale of ANA, Portugal will raise 6.4 billion euros
from the disposal of state-owned assets, beating its goal of
raising 5.5 billion euro from asset sales while it’s receiving
aid from the European Union and International Monetary Fund,
Albuquerque said.  Vinci Strategy  The deal is part of Vinci Chief Executive Officer Xavier Huillard’s plan to expand the builder’s business managing
airports and other transport assets. The steady revenue from
gate fees and retailers is aimed at reducing Vinci’s exposure to
France’s construction sector and making the company, based near
Paris, more resistant to economic swings.  The other three groups bidding for ANA were Frankfurt
airport owner Fraport AG with Industry Funds Management Pty Ltd.
of  Australia , Switzerland’s Flughafen Zurich AG with Brazilian
motorway operator  CCR SA (CCRO3) , and  Argentina ’s Corporacion America,
which operates 49 airports in Latin America and  Europe .  Fraport bid 2.44 billion euros, Corporacion America offered
2.41 billion euros and requested to pay part of that value
within a 10-year period, and Flughafen Zurich bid 2 billion
euros, Sergio Monteiro, the secretary of state for public works,
transport and communications said at the press conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  