-- Pruco Finra Fine, SAC-InterMune Panel, China: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-12-27T13:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/pruco-finra-fine-sac-intermune-panel-china-letter-compliance.html
Pruco Securities LLC, the brokerage
run by  Prudential Financial Inc., (PRU)  will pay customers at least
$10.7 million to make up for delays in placing more than 850,000
mutual fund orders.  Trades were placed one to two days after the orders arrived
by fax or mail, causing some customers to get inferior prices
from late 2003 until June 2011, the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority said yesterday in a statement. Finra also
fined Pruco $550,000 for the errors and oversight failures.  Companies must price mutual fund orders that arrive before
4 p.m. on the day they’re received, Finra said. Prudential, the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, managed  $132 billion  for
retail customers at its retirement division as of Sept. 30.  Prudential reported the errors to Finra after discovering
them when looking into a delay in executing a faxed order.  “Once we did discover it, we moved as quickly as we could
to make certain that we had notified Finra and took steps to
prevent it from happening again,” said Bob DeFillippo, a
spokesman for the  Newark , New Jersey-based company. The company
will “make certain” that anyone who was harmed receives “what
they are entitled to plus interest,” he said.  The errors resulted in some customers receiving more
favorable pricing, and those customers won’t see adjustments
that cut the value of their accounts, DeFillippo said.  Compliance Policy  Philippines to Retain 10% Minimum Capital Ratio Under Basel III  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  will impose a minimum core
equity Tier 1 ratio of six percent under the Basel III accord,
up from five percent, Deputy Governor Nestor Espenilla told
reporters in a briefing in  Manila .  The minimum Tier 1 ratio will be 7.5 percent, with a
conservation buffer of 2.5 percent, Espenilla said.  The new guidelines are to take effect Jan. 1, 2014,
according to Espenilla.  Under Basel III, commercial and universal banks and units
with less than 7.251 percent common equity Tier 1 capital are to
be barred from distributing dividends. Those with as much as 8.5
percent may pay 50 percent of earnings as dividends and those
exceeding 8.5 percent may approve dividends equivalent to 100
percent of earnings, Espenilla said.  China Scholars Demand Ruling Party Relax Its Grip on Government  A group of Chinese intellectuals wrote a letter demanding
the Communist Party end Internet censorship and ease its grip on
the courts, according to a copy posted on the  blog  of one of the
signatories.  The letter, signed by 71 people and posted on the blog of
Peking University law professor Zhang Qianfan, calls for the
party to end its oversight of government personnel decisions,
leave court decisions to judges and lawyers, and allow people to
speak and assemble freely. Zhang, who helped draft the letter,
confirmed in a brief phone call that the letter was genuine.  The document comes as the Communist Party’s new leaders,
including General Secretary Xi Jinping, have demanded some
reforms including a crackdown on corruption and a halt to
extravagance by government officials.  The petition was reminiscent of Charter 08, a petition
seeking similar reforms. One of its organizers, Liu Xiaobo, was
sentenced to 11 years in prison for state subversion. He was
awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2010 for his efforts to promote
democracy and human rights.  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said she
hadn’t seen the report and declined to comment.  Shanghai Ponders Blacklists of Food Producers, Xinhua Says  Food companies in  Shanghai  may face blacklists under a
policy under consideration by the municipal government that
would “impose harsh punishments” on producers violating food
safety rules, Xinhua reported yesterday, citing a senior
official without providing the person’s name.  The blacklisting mechanism would cover 11 types of
misconduct, according to Vice Mayor Shen Xiaoming, the newspaper
said. Company executives will be included in the blacklist.  Food companies that use banned drugs or other substances
“that might be harmful to people” when planting or processing
farm produce, or transporting it, may be blacklisted under the
proposal, the paper reported.  Other banned activities include using banned food additives
and recycling food as a raw material. Blacklisted companies will
face restricted market access and their executives will be
banned from operating food businesses in Shanghai, according to
the Xinhua report.  Nigeria Stockbrokers Urge Funding Securities Agency, AAGM Says  The  Association of Stockbroking Houses of Nigeria  yesterday
urged the federal government to resolve a conflict with the
Securities and Exchange Commission relating to its funding, All
Africa Global Media reported, citing a statement issued by ASHON
President Emeka Madubuike, made available to journalists in
Lagos.  Passage of the 2013 budget “without allocation of funds”
to the SEC is a threat to recovery of the capital market and to
Nigeria’s economic development, Madubuike said, according to
AAGM.  The House of Representatives directed that the commission’s
funding be withheld in an appropriation bill it passed on Dec.
20. The conflict “should be urgently resolved” to avoid
jeopardizing the entire economy, Madubuike said, the AAGM
reported.  Compliance Action  FDA Tipped Advisers on InterMune Rejection Tied to SAC Probe  Three members of an independent advisory panel said they
received as much as a day’s notice in May 2010 before U.S.
regulators rejected a drug from  InterMune Inc. (ITMN) , now tied to an
insider trading probe of SAC Capital Advisors LP.  InterMune’s  shares  fell 5.4 percent the day before the
company announced the rejection, at a time when the panel
members knew the product was doomed. Others at the company and
at the Food and Drug Administration were aware of the rejection
too, and there’s no evidence the 11 panelists did anything
wrong. The members reached by Bloomberg said they hadn’t been
contacted by U.S. authorities and weren’t aware of a probe.  The information they received, though, demonstrates how
broad the potential for leaks can be. Federal investigators are
looking at trades in Intermune that SAC, the $14 billion hedge
fund run by Steven A. Cohen, made in the first half of 2010, a
person familiar with the matter has said. It shows more people
beyond the company and the FDA had the information about the
drug’s impending rejection.  Two months earlier, the advisory panel voted to support
approval of Brisbane, California-based InterMune’s drug, a
treatment called Esbriet developed to be used against idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis, a rare lung disease. The final FDA decision,
announced by the company after the close of trading on May 4,
2010, overturned that recommendation. The panel members wouldn’t
identify the FDA employee who called them. InterMune shares
 plunged  75 percent on May 5, 2010.  Erica Jefferson, an FDA spokeswoman, said the agency would
have no comment on whether panel members got notice of the
rejection. The FDA requires that advisory panel members adhere
to confidentiality rules for market-sensitive information they
get as part of their roles, she said.  The other panel members either didn’t return phone calls or
e-mails, or couldn’t be reached.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital, said on
Dec. 10 that the firm wasn’t aware of any investigation
involving trades of InterMune.  For more, click here.  Courts  Rajaratnam Agrees to Pay $1.5 Million to Settle SEC Civil Case  Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who is serving
11 years in prison for insider trading, agreed to pay $1.5
million to settle a civil case brought by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Rajaratnam agreed to pay $1.3 million representing profits
gained and losses avoided as a result of the conduct the SEC
alleged in the case, according to a filing yesterday in federal
court in New York. He will also pay $147,738 in interest.  Rajaratnam was convicted of directing the biggest hedge
fund insider-trading scheme in U.S. history.  The agreement yesterday stems from a civil case in which
Rajaratnam is a co-defendant with one of his alleged sources of
illicit information, former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director
Rajat Gupta, who was sentenced to two years in prison for
insider trading.  The $1.5 million total disgorgement is in a case separate
from a lawsuit in which Rajaratnam is appealing a record $92.8
million penalty imposed by the SEC. In that case, Rajaratnam had
argued that he shouldn’t have to pay a civil penalty because the
judge in the criminal case ordered him to pay a $10 million fine
and forfeit $53.8 million.  Gupta was convicted by a jury in June of one count of
conspiracy and three counts of securities fraud involving
passing illegal information to Rajaratnam. The SEC had argued
that Gupta should be required to pay the maximum civil penalty
and is seeking $15 million from him. Gupta has objected to
paying that much.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Gupta, 11-07566, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York ( Manhattan ).  Analyst Indicted in Insider-Trading Case Tied to IBM-SPSS Deal  Australian financial analyst Trent Martin was indicted in
the U.S. on charges stemming from an alleged insider-trading
scheme tied to  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s $1.2
billion acquisition of SPSS Inc.  Martin was charged with conspiracy and securities fraud,
federal prosecutors in Manhattan said yesterday in a  statement .
Martin also faces a civil suit over the alleged scheme filed by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Prosecutors and the SEC didn’t identify where Martin, 33,
worked when the alleged crimes occurred. Prosecutors said he
learned confidential information from a corporate lawyer, not
identified in court papers, who was working on the IBM deal and
with whom he was close friends.  Martin bought SPSS stock based on the information in June
2009 and shared the tip with his Manhattan roommate, Thomas
Conradt, who worked as a stock broker, who in turn tipped off
his coworker and friend David Weishaus, who passed the
information to two other unidentified brokers they worked with,
prosecutors said.  Conradt and Weishaus were indicted on charges related to
the alleged scheme on Nov. 29. They have pleaded not guilty to
the charges. Martin was arrested in Hong Kong on Dec. 22 and
remains in custody.  No information regarding a defense attorney for Martin was
available in court records. A spokeswoman for the Manhattan U.S.
Attorney’s office said the information for the defense counsel
wasn’t yet available. The case was adjourned to Jan. 4 so he can
obtain legal advice, the department said.  The case is U.S. v. Martin, 12-cr-887, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews  CBRC Official Says Banks to Face Capital Pressure, Daily Reports  China’s banking sector will face “relatively large”
pressure to replenish capital in the next 10 years, Economic
Information Daily reported, citing Du Jinfu, secretary of the
discipline inspection commission at the China Banking Regulatory
Commission, as saying.  The banking industry needs to focus on raising the
proportion of non-credit assets to total assets, Du said,
according to Daily’s report.  Lenders should switch their operational models to
conserving capital, Du said.  Comings and Goings  Karen Solomon to Serve as Acting Chief Counsel of OCC  Karen Solomon will begin a three-month term as acting chief
counsel of the  Office of Comptroller of the Currency  on Jan. 1
while the agency continues its search for a successor to Julie
Williams, the OCC said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  When Williams stepped down as chief counsel on Sept. 30,
two deputy chief counsels asked to take turns serving in an
acting capacity until a successor is named; deputy Dan Stipano
is about to finish a three-month term.  The OCC, which administers national banks, is an
independent bureau of the Treasury Department. The Comptroller
also is a director of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 