-- Putin Intends to Sign Russian Bill Banning U.S. Adoptions
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-12-27T17:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/putin-sees-no-reason-for-striking-down-ban-on-u-s-adoptions-1-.html
President  Vladimir Putin  said he
intends to sign into a law a bill banning U.S. adoptions of
Russian children, even as he plans to scrutinize the final draft
of the legislation after it was approved by parliament.  Speaking at a government meeting in Moscow today, Putin
said he will “weigh everything” in the bill before making a
final decision, though he “intends” to sign it into law. The
Russian leader also said he’ll sign a presidential decree to
allocate additional resources for Russian orphans, especially
those battling health problems.  Lawmakers in the upper house of parliament, the Federation
Council, voted 143 to zero yesterday in favor of the measure,
which was passed by the lower chamber last week. Putin has two
weeks to decide whether to endorse it, his spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , was cited as saying by Interfax.  The adoption ban was crafted in retaliation for a bill
approved by U.S. lawmakers this month imposing visa restrictions
and an asset freeze on Russian officials allegedly linked to the
death of lawyer Sergei Magnitsky and other human-rights abuses.  The U.S. has “deep concerns” about the measure, State
Department spokesman Patrick Ventrell said today in an e-mailed
statement.  “Since 1992, American families have welcomed more than
60,000 Russian children into their homes, and it is misguided to
link the fate of children to unrelated political
considerations,” he said. “The welfare of children is simply
too important to tie to the political aspects of our
relationship.”  ‘Provocatively Arrogant’  Putin today blamed U.S. authorities for denying access to
adopted children for Russian representatives, acting in a
“provocatively arrogant” manner and making decisions seen as
“legally unfounded” by  Russia .  Putin applauded the adoption ban at his annual press
conference last week, noting that it couldn’t take effect
immediately because a treaty between Russia and the U.S.
regulating the process requires a year’s notice to withdraw.  Russia may completely abandon the practice of foreign
adoptions after the government approves federal programs to
support orphans, Interfax reported today, citing Pavel Astakhov,
Russia’s ombudsman for children’s rights.  In  Washington , Ventrell said the U.S. is also “deeply
troubled” by elements of the bill “that would restrict the
ability of Russian civil society organizations to work with
American partners.”  “The decades of cooperation between Russian and American
NGOs have been beneficial to both our countries and our
citizens,” he said in the statement. “We have also been clear
that our interaction with Russian civil society has always been
non-partisan and transparent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  