-- Rajaratnam Agrees to Pay $1.5 Million to Settle SEC Case
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-12-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/rajaratnam-will-pay-1-5-million-disgorgement-in-sec-case-1-.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who is serving 11 years in prison for  insider
trading , agreed to pay $1.5 million to settle a civil case
brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Rajaratnam agreed to pay $1.3 million representing profits
gained and losses avoided as a result of the conduct the SEC
alleged in the case, according to a filing yesterday in federal
court in  New York . He will also pay $147,738 in interest.  Rajaratnam was convicted of directing the biggest hedge
fund insider-trading scheme in U.S. history. At trial, the
government introduced 45 wiretap recordings, along with
documents and testimony derived from the wiretaps.  The agreement yesterday stems from a civil case in which
Rajaratnam is a co-defendant with one of his alleged sources of
illicit information, former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director
 Rajat Gupta , who was sentenced to two years in prison for
insider trading.  The $1.5 million total disgorgement is in a case separate
from a lawsuit in which Rajaratnam is appealing a record $92.8
million penalty imposed by the SEC. In that case, Rajaratnam had
argued that he shouldn’t have to pay a civil penalty because the
judge in the criminal case ordered him to pay a $10 million fine
and forfeit $53.8 million.  Gupta was convicted by a jury in June of one count of
conspiracy and three counts of  securities fraud . He was accused
of passing illegal information about New York-based Goldman
Sachs to Rajaratnam, his friend and business partner. The jury
convicted Gupta of twice passing information about Goldman Sachs
to Rajaratnam, once on Sept. 23, 2008, and again on Oct. 23,
2008.  The SEC had argued that Gupta should be required to pay the
maximum civil penalty and is seeking $15 million from him. Gupta
has objected to paying that much.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Gupta, 11-07566, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  