-- RBS Wins Dismissal of Woori Bank Suit Over CDO Investment
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-12-27T20:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/rbs-wins-dismissal-of-woori-bank-suit-over-cdo-investment.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  won
dismissal of a lawsuit filed by Seoul-based  Woori Bank (WF)  over
losses from investments in collateralized debt obligations tied
to the housing market.  A federal judge in New York ruled today that the South
Korean lender failed to present a strong enough case against
RBS. Woori Bank had alleged that it was duped into investing $80
million in CDOs that were exposed to risk from the subprime
housing market, according to the order filed today by U.S.
District Judge Harold Baer in  Manhattan .  Woori lost most of the money in those investments, which
were made from about 2006 through 2007, lawyers for the bank
said in a complaint filed in May.  “The deals in this case are, like most deals of that time,
somewhat suspect,” Baer said in today’s order. “Not all such
deals are inherently fraudulent or misleading simply because
they involved subprime mortgages and the sale of what are now
worthless investments that were once pitched as safe.”  Christopher Lebsock, a San Francisco-based lawyer
representing Woori, said in an e-mail that the bank’s legal team
will review the order over the next several days and plans to
send a letter to the court seeking permission to amend the case.  “It appears that the court was concerned with certain
technical defects in the pleadings concerning RBS’s knowledge of
its conduct,” Lebsock said in the e-mail.  Default Likely  In its complaint, Woori alleged that RBS was aware at the
time at the time the investments were sold that the CDOs
included a significant percentage of mortgages given to
borrowers who were likely to default.  “Rather than disclosing these material facts to investors
in the deals it arranged, defendants concealed them so that RBS
could off-load some of the massive exposure to subprime RMBS
that it carried on its own balance sheet to unsuspecting
investors,” lawyers for the bank said in the filing, referring
to residential mortgage-backed securities.  Woori’s suit alleged claims including fraud, negligent
misrepresentation and unjust enrichment.  In his order today, Baer said amending the suit would be
“an exercise in futility” and instructed the court clerk to
close the case, indicating the ruling was final. He invited
Woori to write a letter stating how it might change its suit if
otherwise given permission to do so.  The case is Woori Bank v.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
1:12-cv-04254, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  