-- Treasuries Gain as Reid Says Talks May Not Meet Deadline
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-12-27T22:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/treasuries-snap-gain-on-speculation-housing-to-improve.html
Treasuries rose for a second day as
investors sought safety after Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
said the budget stalemate that threatens to push the economy
into recession probably won’t be resolved by year-end.  U.S. government bonds pared gains as House Majority Leader
 Eric Cantor  said his chamber of Congress will convene Dec. 30 on
the eve of the deadline. Treasuries reached highs of the day
after Reid said on the Senate floor “nothing’s happening” on
talks to avert $600 billion in tax boosts and spending cuts set
to start in January. He said Republicans wouldn’t cooperate.  “It’s clear heels are dug in in  Washington , and we seem to
be moving further away from a resolution and closer to the
possibility of going over the cliff,” said  Scott Graham , head
of government bond trading at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital
Markets unit in  Chicago , one of the 21 primary dealers that
trade with the  Federal Reserve . “The fear and worry is pushing
stocks lower and Treasuries higher.”  The benchmark 10-year note  yield  declined two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.74 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched 1.7
percent, the lowest level since Dec. 14, after rising earlier as
much as three basis points. The price of the 1.625 percent
security due in November 2022 increased 1/8, or $1.25 per $1,000
face amount, to 99.  Thirty-year bond  yields fell one basis point to 2.91
percent after dropping earlier as much as five basis points.  Driving Market  “The fiscal-cliff back-and-forth is driving the market,”
said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital
Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We find ourselves in an
environment where the economic data is not that important in the
contest of what could or could not happen in 2013, depending on
how the fiscal cliff gets resolved.”  Long-bond yields reached a  three-month high  of 3.03 percent
and 10-year yields touched a  seven-week high  of 1.85 percent on
Dec. 18 on bets U.S. leaders would resolve the budget showdown.  The Treasury holdings of  primary dealers  increased 7
percent to a record $145.7 billion as of Dec. 19, the Fed
reported today. Ownership of U.S. government securities has
risen for four consecutive weeks by a total of $41 billion,
central bank data show.  U.S. government securities returned 2.1 percent in 2012 on
an annualized basis through yesterday, set for the worst
performance since a 3.7 percent loss in 2009, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index gained 15 percent, including reinvested dividends, amid
signs the  U.S. economy  is improving.  Treasuries have lost 0.2 percent this quarter and 0.6
percent this month, Merrill Lynch index data show.  Couldn’t Agree  House Speaker  John Boehner  and President  Barack Obama  were
unable to agree before Christmas on the tax-rate increase on top
earners that Obama sought to lower the  U.S. budget deficit  or
the cuts to entitlement programs Boehner wanted.  “I don’t know time-wise how it can happen now,” said
Reid, a Nevada Democrat. He blamed Boehner and Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell , both Republicans.  The House will convene the evening of Dec. 30, Cantor said
in a message posted on Twitter. It may meet through Jan. 2, the
Virginia Republican said. The next session of Congress is
scheduled to convene the following day. The first votes on Dec.
30 are planned at about 6:30 p.m., Cantor said.  Meeting President  Democratic and Republican leaders of the U.S. House and
Senate plan to meet with President Barack Obama tomorrow as the
budget deadline approaches, Senator  Dick Durbin  said. Durbin is
the second-ranking Senate Democrat.  The  Congressional Budget Office  has said the automatic tax
increases and spending reductions would probably lead to a
 recession  in the first half of 2013.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday he
will take “extraordinary measures” to postpone a U.S. default
into early 2013 while Obama and Congress work out a deficit-
reduction deal.  “However, given the significant uncertainty that now
exists with regard to unresolved tax and spending policies for
2013, it is not possible to predict the effective duration of
these measures,” Geithner wrote to congressional leaders.  Moody’s Investors Service reiterated it may downgrade the
U.S. next year if the government fails to address the rising
percentage of debt to gross domestic product during budget
negotiations.  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the U.S. of its top AAA
rating on Aug. 5, 2011.  ‘Sustainable Plan’  “Adoption of a sustainable plan that results in a
declining debt ratio over the medium term would be supportive of
maintaining the Aaa rating with a stable outlook,” Moody’s said
in a report. “An outcome during 2013 that does not show such a
debt trajectory could lead to a downgrade of the rating.”  Moody’s and S&P have negative outlooks on the U.S.  The Fed bought $4.6 billion of Treasuries maturing from
December 2018 to November 2020 today, according to the Fed Bank
of New York. It was part of the central bank’s effort to cap
borrowing costs by exchanging short-term securities from its
holdings for longer-term debt in a program that ends this month.  Treasuries  erased  early losses as a gauge of  confidence 
among U.S. consumers declined more than forecast. The Conference
Board’s index of sentiment fell to 65.1 in December from a
revised 71.5 reading the prior month, figures from the New York-
based private research group showed. A Bloomberg survey forecast
a decline to 70.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  