-- Rebar Declines From Five-Month High on China Property Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-27T08:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/rebar-declines-from-five-month-high-on-china-property-concerns.html
Steel reinforcement-bar futures
dropped for the first time in three days on concern that  China 
will maintain curbs on real estate investment next year,
limiting housing construction.  Rebar for delivery in May lost 0.2 percent to close at
3,869 yuan ($620) a metric ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange.
The contract climbed to 3,958 yuan earlier today, the highest
most-active price since July 10, on expectations China’s
investments in railways and urbanization plans will boost demand.
Futures have advanced 11 percent this month, trimming the 2012
loss to 8.1 percent.  China will keep in place home-purchase restrictions and
will “strictly” curb speculation in 2013, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported Dec. 25, citing the Ministry of Housing and
Urban-Rural Development. Daily crude steel output in mid-
December fell 1.7 percent to 1.91 million tons compared with
early-December, said researcher Custeel.com, citing data from
the China Iron & Steel Association.  “The risk of housing market curbs is a real concern, and
the government will likely keep a tight lid on lending to the
housing sector next year,” Wu Zhili, an analyst at Shenhua
Futures Co., said by phone from Shenzhen. “These are bearish
factors for the rebar market,” he said.  In its more than two-year effort to rein in prices, China
has implemented measures including raising down-payment and
mortgage requirements for second homes, imposing a property tax
for the first time in Shanghai and Chongqing and introducing
home-purchase curbs in about 40 cities.  The average spot  price  for rebar rose 0.3 percent to 3,621
 yuan  a ton yesterday, according to data from Beijing Antaike
Information Development Co. Spot  iron ore  at Tianjin port was
unchanged at $135.40 a dry ton yesterday, data compiled by The
Steel Index Ltd. showed.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  