-- Reliance Buys India Realty Stocks, Bajaj Sells Drugmakers
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-12-28T10:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/reliance-buys-indian-property-stocks-as-bajaj-selling-drugmakers.html
Indian policies to lure foreign
investors and revive Asia’s third-biggest economy are driving
the nation’s  largest  money managers to accumulate automakers,
property companies and metal producers that stand to benefit
most from a recovery.  Sunil Singhania, the head of equities at Reliance Capital
Asset Management Ltd., is buying property and engineering stocks
while Sampath Reddy, Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co.’s chief
investment officer, is selling drugmakers and telecommunications
shares in favor of mining companies.  The benchmark Sensex index has increased 26 percent this
year, the most among the so-called BRIC nations, as Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  proposed easing foreign ownership curbs
on Indian retailers and airlines.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
upgraded the nation’s equities on Nov. 29 citing a “strong
recovery in growth” next year.  “The last two years we were all hiding behind so-called
safe stocks,” said Singhania, who helps oversee about $16
billion at Reliance and manages the nation’s best-performing
fund in the past decade. “The government means to take this
reform process ahead and that is very clearly reflected in the
optimism in the market. We think that is going to continue.”  The Sensex’s gain was more than twice the advance of the
MSCI BRIC index this year and compared with a 1.5 percent
increase for the Shanghai Composite Index. Indian stocks rallied
as the government responded to the threat of a credit-rating
downgrade with its biggest push in a decade to open up the
economy to foreign investment.  ‘Buying Trigger’  The policy actions were the “trigger” for Mahesh Patil,
co-chief investment officer at Birla Sun Life Asset Management
Co., to switch from so-called defensives to cyclical stocks that
would gain from a cut in interest rates. Birla is India’s
fourth-biggest fund with $13.3 billion in assets.  Patil said he bought automakers such as  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ,
the Mumbai-based owner of Jaguar and Land Rover luxury brands,
and  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the second-best performer in the Sensex
this year. He sold consumer-goods makers such as  Hindustan
Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , a unit of the world’s second-largest consumer-
goods maker, and  ITC Ltd. (ITC) , Asia’s second-biggest tobacco company
by value. The  BSE Fast-Moving Consumer Goods Index (BSETMCG)  trades at 34
times estimated profit, more than double the Sensex’s valuation,
after soaring 46 percent in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  ‘Bottomed Out’  “The earnings downgrade cycle has bottomed out and that is
a sentiment booster,” Patil said in an interview on Dec. 19 in
Mumbai. “With the government trying to push reforms, economic
growth will normalize next year.” The  Birla MNC Fund (APPMIDG) , overseen
by Patil, has beaten 99 percent of its peers in the past five
years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Reddy, who manages $7.5 billion at a venture with Europe’s
biggest insurer, said this year his funds started adding
consumer discretionary stocks after being invested in defensive
stocks including drugmakers and telecommunication firms for the
past four years.  He bought shares of  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , India’s largest
producer, and aluminum maker  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL)  He also
purchased Ahmedabad-based  Torrent Power Ltd. (TPW)  for its “rock-
bottom” valuation. Torrent trades at 1.5 times its book value,
the lowest in more than three years, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Standard & Poor’s , which cut its outlook on India’s credit
rating to negative on April 25, said Dec. 11 that a downgrade
was still likely if India’s political climate worsens and the
pace of fiscal reforms slows.  Premium Valuation  Companies on the Sensex are valued at an average 15.4 times
earnings, the second-most expensive stocks among the BRIC
nations. Brazil’s Bovespa Index trades at 17.6 times, Russia’s
 Micex Index (INDEXCF)  at 5.5 times and  China ’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  at
11 times. That compares with a multiple of 12.1 for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index.  “We’ve had a few reforms but still have a long way to go
to have a meaningful impact on India’s fundamental problems,”
Sanjeev Prasad, senior executive director of Kotak Institutional
Equities, told Bloomberg TV India from  Singapore  on Dec. 19.
“The political atmosphere is still dysfunctional, not very
supportive of big-ticket reforms.”  Singh’s administration pared fuel subsidies on Sept. 13,
approved changes to a century-old land law on Dec. 13 to help
end protests that have delayed projects and eased rules for
setting up banks on Dec. 18. Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said Dec. 20 he expects legislation to allow
foreigners to increase holdings in insurers to be passed in the
next session of parliament.  Parliamentary Vote  Singh won parliamentary support on Dec. 7 for the retail
plan and Chidambaram pledged on Dec. 14 more steps to boost an
economy growing at the slowest pace since 2009.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao signaled
higher odds on Dec. 18 for a cut in  interest rates  next year as
he held borrowing costs unchanged for a fifth policy meeting.
Goldman Sachs said the next day it sees a “high likelihood” of
a 50-basis point reduction in a policy review due on Jan. 29,
Tushar Poddar, the bank’s chief India economist, wrote in a note
to clients.  The measures have drawn more foreign inflows into Indian
equities. Overseas investors bought a net $24.2 billion of
stocks this year, the most among 10 Asian markets excluding
China tracked by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs upgraded Indian equities on Nov. 29 to
overweight from market-weight, joining Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp. in forecasting gains for
the nation’s equities in 2013.  Birla’s Patil expects a 15 percent return from the  Sensex (SENSEX) 
next year, with much of the advances coming in the first six
months. The nation’s factory output grew at the fastest pace in
more than a year in October, a Dec. 12 report showed. A trade
ministry report two days later showed benchmark inflation rate
unexpectedly eased in November to a 10-month low.  “From here, growth will only inch up, Reliance’s Singhania
said. ‘‘Same is true for earnings and reforms.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  