-- Russia Targets Diplomatic Solution on Syria in Moscow Talks
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-12-27T14:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/russia-targets-diplomatic-solution-on-syria-in-moscow-talks-1-.html
Russia hosted a top Syrian official
today in support of United Nations efforts to seek a negotiated
outcome to the 21-month conflict in the Middle Eastern nation.  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  met Syrian Deputy
Foreign Minister Faysal Mikdad, two days before a visit to
Moscow by UN envoy Lakhdar Brahimi. The UN mediator, who has
been holding negotiations in Syria this week with President
Bashar Al-Assad and opposition representatives, said he has
discussed the formation of a transitional government with
expanded powers, according to  Al Arabiya  television.  The meetings in Moscow are “part of our efforts to promote
dialogue, not only with the government but with all opposition
groups,” Alexander Lukashevich, a spokesman for the Foreign
Ministry, told reporters in the Russian capital today. “The
internal conflict in Syria doesn’t have a military solution.”  Russia hasn’t ceased its arms exports to  Syria  during the
conflict and has blocked UN sanctions against Assad’s
government. It also rejects opposition demands for the Syrian
leader’s resignation before any transition talks. The uprising
that started in March 2011 has killed more than 44,000 people,
according to the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights .  Lavrov and Mikdad discussed possible steps to end the
violence and begin talks, according to a statement on the
Foreign Ministry website released after the meeting.  Damascus Bombing  Fierce fighting continued throughout Syria today as
government and opposition forces clashed in Damascus, Aleppo,
Hama, Homs and other cities, the Observatory said. A car bomb in
the capital killed about 35 people, according to  Al Jazeera .
About 160 people were killed yesterday.  Russia “sees no alternative” to a plan on Syria signed by
major powers in Geneva in June and which called for a power-
sharing government, according to Lukashevich. Assad’s
resignation isn’t a “precondition” for peace talks, he said.  “The Russians saying that there’s no solution without
Assad is another way of saying that this conflict won’t be
resolved without them,” Ghanem Nuseibeh, London-based founder
of political-risk analyst Cornerstone Global Associates. “They
know they can negotiate a safe passage for Assad, and they want
to play a central role in post-Assad Syria.”  Not Ready  Still, the Russians aren’t ready to abandon him publicly,
Nuseibeh said by telephone. Russia has a naval base in the
Syrian port of Tartus and billions of dollars of arms contracts
with the Middle Eastern state. After the overthrow of Iraqi
leader  Saddam Hussein  in 2003 and Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
last year, Syria is the last major customer for Russian weapons
in the region.  Syria’s ruling Baath party has called for a Yemen-style
power shift that would cost Assad his presidency, Al Arabiya
reported today, without citing anyone or providing details.
Under a Saudi-brokered deal, former Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh received full immunity from prosecution to
transfer power to his deputy in 2011 after months of mass
protests and violence.  Assad refuses to step down and won’t be offered asylum in
Moscow to persuade him, Lavrov said on Dec. 21. Russia spurned
requests from regional powers in the  Middle East  to facilitate
the ouster of Assad and refuses to take part in regime change in
the country, according to Lavrov. Russia has repeatedly accused
Qatar and  Saudi Arabia  of unleashing chaos by arming the Syrian
opposition.  “If the aim is to claim Assad’s scalp, the responsibility
for the continuation of the bloodshed will lie on those who
pursue this course,” Lukashevich said. “Decisive steps are
needed to end the bloodshed.”  The Syrian president inherited power in 2000 from his
father, Hafez al-Assad, a Soviet ally who ruled for three
decades and received weapons and financial support for the Arab
standoff against  Israel .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Abelsky at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net  