-- Russian Manufacturing Stagnated After 14-Month Growth, HSBC Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-12-27T07:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/russian-manufacturing-stagnated-after-14-month-growth-hsbc-says.html
Russian manufacturing stalled for
the first time in 15 months in December as the industry stumbled
for the steepest drop in four years, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index dropped to 50 in December
from 52.2 in November, HSBC said in an e-mailed  statement ,
citing data compiled by London-based Markit Economics. A level
above 50 signals an expansion, while below that is a
contraction.  The world’s largest energy exporter is struggling to
stabilize economic growth as euro-area countries that account
for about half of  Russia ’s trade grapple with recession. New
orders, output and employment, the three main components of the
manufacturing index, worsened from last month, HSBC said.  “Growth momentum suddenly deteriorated amid a sharp fall
in external demand in the end of 2012,” Artem Biryukov, an
economist at HSBC, said in the statement. November’s figure was
changed from the initially reported 52.3 because of a rounding
issue, he said today by telephone.  The Micex Manufacturing Index was little changed at
1,963.72 as of 10:13 a.m. in Moscow, and the broader Micex Index
was also trading little changed at 1,479.22.  Russian trade volumes may be unchanged from last year after
growing as much as 3 percent in the first 10 months of this
year, Deputy Economy Minister Alexei Likhachev told reporters in
Moscow yesterday. Russian imports and exports both shrunk in
November and the trend has continued into December, he said.  Still, the manufacturing reading may be a sign of a
stabilization as businesses scaled back over-production in
December, according to HSBC.  “Resumption of stronger growth is still on the agenda as
we estimate moderate stock levels in the manufacturing sector,”
Biryukov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  