-- Sales of New U.S. Homes Climbed in November to Two-Year High
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-12-27T15:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/sales-of-new-u-s-homes-increased-in-november-to-two-year-high.html
Sales of new houses rose in November
to the highest level in more than two years, the latest sign
that the real-estate market is helping lift the U.S. economy.  Purchases climbed 4.4 percent to a 377,000 annual pace, the
most since April 2010, following a revised 361,000 rate in
October, the Commerce Department reported today in Washington.
The median estimate of 71 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for sales to increase to 380,000.  Low mortgage rates and dwindling  foreclosures  are
stabilizing prices and attracting buyers more than three years
after a recession that was fueled by the industry’s collapse.
Growing demand coupled with less inventory has given a boost to
 Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  and other companies, which are competing for
buildable lots.  “The housing market’s in a steady recovery that’s likely
to continue,” said Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at
Renaissance Macro Research LLC in New York. “We’re probably in
the early stages of this positive feedback loop” of cheap
credit, tight inventory and rising prices, he said. “It’s not
likely to get to the heydays of the last boom but the housing
market is doing well.”  Economists’  estimates  ranged from a sales rate of 360,000
to 398,000.  Other reports today showed jobless claims dropped last week
and readings of consumer confidence showed Americans remained
upbeat about the current state of the economy while growing more
concerned about next year.  Fewer Claims  Applications for  jobless benefits  decreased 12,000 to
350,000 in the week ended Dec. 22, according to Labor Department
figures. Claims in 19 states and territories were estimated
because government office closures on Dec. 24 prevented a
complete count, a Labor Department spokesman said as the figures
were released.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was little changed at
minus 32.1 in the period ended Dec. 23 from minus 31.9 in the
prior week, a drop that was within the margin of error of 3
percentage points. The gauge, which is based on current
conditions, was less than a point from an April reading that was
the highest since March 2008.  The New York-based Conference Board’s measure of  consumer
confidence  dropped more than forecast in December, another
report showed. The gauge fell to a four-month low of 65.1 this
month from 71.5 in November as Americans turned more pessimistic
about the outlook for growth.  Stocks fell as lawmakers returned to Washington to resume
budget talks. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.7
percent to 1,410.52 at 10:27 a.m. in New York.  Prices Rise  Demand for new houses was up 15.3 percent from a year ago,
today’s report showed, today’s Commerce Department report
showed. The median price for a new house rose 14.9 percent in
November from the same month a year ago to $246,200. Builders
are reporting increased construction costs and higher prices for
undeveloped land.  “Part of the home price increases have been offset by
construction cost increases,” said Ara Hovnanian, chief
executive officer of  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , based in Red
Bank, New Jersey.  “However, the gradual and steady nature of this recovery
is helping to keep construction costs from going out of
control,” Hovnanian said on a Dec. 13 earnings call. “Our
current costs are still significantly below our costs during the
cyclical peak.”  Home sales increased in two of four regions last month, led
by a 21.1 percent jump in the South. Demand in the Northeast
increased 12.5 percent. Purchases fell 17.8 percent in the West
and 12.5 percent in the Midwest.  Months’ Supply  The supply of homes at the current sales rate dropped to
4.7 months from 4.9 months in October. There were 149,000 new
houses on the market at the end of the month compared with
147,000 in October.  Sales of new homes, which are calculated when purchase
contracts are signed, are considered a timelier barometer than
purchases of existing dwellings, which are calculated when a
contract closes. New construction accounted for 6.7 percent of
the residential market in 2011, down from a high of 15 percent
during the boom of the past decade.  Sales of existing homes rose more than forecast in November
to a three-year high, the National Association of Realtors
reported last week.  Previously owned homes  advanced 5.9 percent
to a 5.04 million rate.  With fewer distressed properties on the market, prices have
started to stabilize. Home prices climbed more than forecast in
October, a report yesterday showed. The S&P/Case-Shiller index
of property values in 20 cities increased 4.3 percent from
October 2011, the biggest 12-month advance since May 2010.  Gaining Confidence  Builder confidence has been improving as well. The National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo builder sentiment  index 
increased in November to the highest level since April 2006.  Cheaper borrowing costs are helping drive housing demand. A
30-year, fixed-rate mortgage averaged 3.35 percent in the week
ended today, according to  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)  That is little changed
from the 3.31 percent reached in late November that was the
lowest in data going back to 1972  Policy makers are striving to keep rates low to spur an
even bigger recovery in housing. The Federal Reserve, which has
kept its benchmark interest rate near zero since 2008, this
month said it would hold it low “at least as long” as
unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and inflation projections
are for no more than 2.5 percent.  Builders are seeing more serious buyers walk into
showrooms, Toll Brothers Chief Executive Officer Douglas Yearley
said. Purchase contracts are up 34 percent from a year ago, he
said.  “Pent-up demand, rising home prices, low interest rates,
and improving customer confidence motivated buyers to return to
the housing market in fiscal year 2012,” Yearley said on a Dec.
4 earnings call. “As household formations accelerated and
unsold home inventories dropped to record lows, the industry
took further steps towards a sustained housing recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  