-- Sasol Says Arya Polymer Sale Talks Continue as Iran Denies Exit
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-12-27T09:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/sasol-says-arya-polymer-sale-talks-continue-as-iran-denies-exit.html
Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the largest producer of
motor fuel from coal, said discussions continue with potential
buyers of its stake in Arya Sasol Polymer Co., amid reports that
an Iranian official denied the company plans to withdraw.  “We continue to engage with a number of interested parties
who include business and government stakeholders,” Alex Anderson, a spokesman for Johannesburg-based Sasol, said in an
e-mailed response to questions today. Reports that Sasol has
decided to cut investment in Iran because of sanctions against
the country are rumors, Abdol Hossein Bayat, head of the
National Petrochemical Co. of Iran, was cited yesterday as
saying by the state-run Fars news agency.  Sasol may classify its 50 percent stake in Arya as an asset
held for sale, it said in a Dec. 3 statement. Sasol co-owns Arya
with Pars Petrochemical Co. of  Iran , a unit of National
Petrochemical. Arya contributes about 3 percent to the South
African company’s operating profit, Chief Financial Officer
Christine Ramon said Sept. 10.  The U.S. and the European Union are pressuring Iran to
curtail its nuclear program, which they say is aimed at
developing an atomic weapon. Iran denies it is trying to make
atomic weapons, saying its nuclear research is for civilian use.  Arya makes integrated ethylene and polyethylene products
for export, according to Anderson. The output isn’t used in the
development of petroleum, natural-gas resources or nuclear power
in Iran, he said.  The Fars report cited Eric Roper, Arya’s managing director,
as saying earlier this month that Sasol has no plans to withdraw
from the venture.  Sasol will make further announcements once sufficient
progress has been made on the possible sale, Anderson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  