-- Saudi Arabian Stocks Are The Value Story for Next Year, VTB Says
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-12-27T10:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/saudi-arabian-stocks-are-the-value-story-for-next-year-vtb-says.html
Shares in Saudi Arabia will offer
the “value story” across  emerging markets  next year as stable
 oil prices  and government spending are set to lure investors to
the Arab world’s largest stock market, according to VTB Group.  “We expect the first half to be bullish for  Middle East 
and North Africa equities and see Saudi Arabia as the value
story for 2013 across the emerging market space,” analysts
Digvijay Singh and Alexey Zabotkin at VTB Capital Plc, the
London-based investment-banking arm of VTB, wrote in a research
note today, with an overweight recommendation on the kingdom.
Oil prices, infrastructure spending and dividend yields are
among catalysts that will help boost share prices, they said.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter, is
embarking on about $500 billion in government spending and
projects including the world’s tallest tower in Jeddah. The
Saudi benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained 7 percent this
year, lagging the 15 percent gain for the  MSCI Emerging Markets
Index. (MXEF)  The Saudi index offers a  dividend yield  of 3.6 percent
compared with 2.7 percent for MSCI EM Index.  The Tadawul All Share Petrochemical Industries Index is the
second-worst performing sector among  15 sub-indexes  on the
index, with a decline of 5.2 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s left the companies valued at 14.4 times
earnings, compared with 8.2 times earnings for  MSCI EM energy
stocks.   Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest
petrochemicals maker, has declined 5.7 percent this year after
posting profit decreases in the past three quarters. Oil prices
averaged 18 percent higher this year compared with 2010 and
little changed from last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Advanced Petrochemicals Co. (APPC) , a manufacturer of
polypropylene products,  National Industrialization Co. (NIC) , a
holding company for industrial and manufacturing firms, and
Islamic lender  Alinma Bank (ALINMA)  are among VTB Capital’s top five
stock picks in the Middle East and North Africa.  Telecom Egypt (ETEL) 
and  Commercial Bank of Qatar , which have both lagged their
benchmark stock indexes, also find a place on the list.  Saudi Arabia’s stock market is closed today for the
weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  