-- Saudi Arabia Must Review Its Oil Subsidies, Former Adviser Says
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-12-27T11:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/saudi-arabia-must-review-its-oil-subsidies-former-adviser-says.html
Saudi Arabia  will need to reduce
fuel subsidies that are becoming an ever-greater fiscal burden
as its population grows, a former adviser to the country’s oil
minister said.  The world’s biggest exporter of crude has a domestic fuel
subsidy bill exceeding 162 billion riyals ($43 billion) a year,
according to Mohammad Al-Sabban, an independent Saudi-based
economist and energy consultant. Citigroup Inc. said in a report
Sept. 4 that the kingdom may need to import oil by 2030 if its
domestic crude use continues to outpace gains in production.  “Reviewing fuel prices in Saudi Arabia is inevitable if
not a priority,” Al-Sabban said Dec. 20 by e-mail from the Red
Sea coastal city of  Jeddah . “Rapid growth in consumption is a
real problem that can’t continue in any way. There is a general
conviction on that on all levels in the kingdom.”  Three years after the Saudi government agreed with an
initiative by the Group of 20 nations for inefficient fossil-
fuel subsidies to be phased out, it has not yet announced plans
to raise local fuel prices. Saudi Arabia is the world’s largest
consumer of oil per capita with 4.7 metric tons, or 35 barrels,
a year, according to the International Energy Agency.  The country, the de-facto leader of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, is losing potential export
revenue by selling oil domestically at $5 to $15 a barrel when
international buyers pay more than $100, said al-Sabban, who was
a senior economic adviser at the ministry of petroleum and
minerals before retiring this year.  Largest Subsidy  Saudi Arabia depends on oil for 86 percent of its annual
revenue and is accelerating exploration for natural gas and
planning to develop solar and nuclear power to preserve more of
its valuable crude for export.  The  International Energy Agency , in this year’s annual
World Energy Outlook, said Saudi Arabia has the world’s largest
fuel subsidy after  Iran , at $61 billion a year.  Rapid population growth is adding to the gain in fuel
consumption, which is increasing at an annual rate of 7 percent,
said al-Sabban. The country’s population is rising at 3.2
percent a year, according to the central department of
statistics and information.  Saudi Arabia is among the nations feeling the least pain at
the pump, with a gallon of premium gasoline costing Saudis 1
percent of their daily income in October, 58th out of 60
countries, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It cost Americans 3
percent, Kuwaitis 0.7 percent and Venezuelans 0.3 percent.  The main problem with subsidies in Saudi Arabia is that
they are becoming an economic burden on the government as they
benefit all classes, including the rich and expats, and not only
the low-income classes, al-Sabban said.  The IEA assumes in its New Policy Scenario that the Saudi
government will reduce oil and gas subsidies “but cutting
subsidies and raising prices is not an easy task,” it said in
its annual World Energy Outlook published last month.  “Phasing out fuel subsidies is a very sensitive topic in
the kingdom,” al-Sabban said. “It can’t be done at one step
and it can’t be done suddenly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  