-- SC Global Falls to 2-Week Low on Offer Report: Singapore Mover
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-12-27T09:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/sc-global-falls-to-2-week-low-on-offer-report-singapore-mover.html
SC Global Developments Ltd. (SCGD)  dropped
to a two-week low after an independent financial adviser said
Chief Executive Officer Simon Cheong’s S$745 million ($609
million) buyout offer is “fair and reasonable.”  The stock, which had closed above Cheong’s offer price of
S$1.80 for 11 days, declined 1.6 percent to S$1.895 at the close
of  Singapore  trading, the lowest since Dec. 13. Prime Partners
Corporate Finance Pte, the Singapore luxury developer’s
independent adviser, recommended shareholders accept Cheong’s
offer, according to a circular to investors yesterday.  Traders had been betting the most lucrative takeover offer
in Singapore will get even sweeter for the luxury property
developer. At 61 percent more than the stock’s 20-day average,
Cheong offered the biggest premium for any acquisition of a
developer in Singapore on record, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Since then, SC Global’s second-largest investor,
 Wheelock & Co. (20) , bought shares above the deal price, and the
stock closed at S$1.91 last week, indicating traders expect
Cheong to pay more.  “As Simon Cheong and concert parties already owned 60.74
percent of SC Global, there is also no likelihood of a counter-
offer from third parties,” Goh Han Peng, an analyst at DMG &
Partners Securities Pte, said in a report today. “Wheelock with
its 16 percent stake in SC Global now holds the key as to
whether Simon Cheong will be able to successfully privatize SC
Global.”  ‘Possible Compromise’  The stock rose to the highest in almost five years on Dec.
17 after Wheelock said it bought 1.07 million shares at S$1.81,
exceeding Cheong’s offer price. Wheelock, also a developer, said
it named Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as its financial adviser in
relation to Cheong’s offer.  “A possible compromise, in our view, is a merger of the
two companies, which we see as highly complementary given the
common focus on the luxury end of the residential market,” Goh
said. “Wheelock gets to replenish its landbank in one stroke
while SC Global gets the backing of Wheelock’s strong balance
sheet.”  Still, sales have slowed after Singapore took steps to
discourage speculation in real estate, requiring foreigners to
pay an additional 10 percent tax on property purchases and
adding levies on second or third homes. Amid fluctuating sales,
SC Global reported losses in three of the four most recent
quarters, and  earnings  are expected to fall  79 percent  in 2012,
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  When Cheong made the offer, he said that an unlisted
company would have more flexibility if it didn’t have to report
results on a quarterly basis and said that SC Global hasn’t
tapped  capital markets  in at least six years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  