-- Seahawks Cornerback Sherman Says He Won Appeal of Four-Game Ban
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-12-27T18:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/seahawks-cornerback-sherman-says-he-won-appeal-of-four-game-ban.html
Seattle Seahawks  starting cornerback
Richard Sherman said he won his appeal of a four-game suspension
for violating the  National Football League ’s performance-
enhancing drug policy.  Sherman, who along with teammate Brandon Browner tested
positive for an undisclosed substance, appealed last month based
on errors in the chain of custody of his sample and because of
mistakes made by the tester, ESPN said. News of the initial ban
was reported Nov. 26 and the substance in question was the
prescription drug Adderall, a stimulant used to treat attention-
deficit hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD, ESPN said.  “Thank you @nfl for upholding the truth! To the 12s Thank
you, your faith is rewarded! Thank you lord,” Sherman said
today in a Twitter post, referencing his appreciation of
 Seattle ’s fans, known as the “12th man.”  A second post said: “I won.”  George Atallah, a spokesman for the NFL Players
Association, confirmed the ruling to  USA Today . An e-mail
seeking comment from Atallah wasn’t immediately returned.  The NFL’s drug agreement with its players’ union includes a
confidentiality agreement that precludes all parties, including
the players, from discussing test results publicly.  “We are reviewing the decision, but decline comment at
this time due to the confidentiality provision of the program,”
 Greg Aiello , a spokesman for the NFL, said in an e-mail.  Dave Pearson, a spokesman for the Seahawks, said in an e-
mail that the team would defer to the league.  The 24-year-old Sherman has seven interceptions this season
for the Seahawks, who are 10-5 and have clinched a playoff
berth. He had an interception and returned a blocked field-goal
try 90 yards for a score on Dec. 23 as Seahawks beat the San
Francisco 49ers 42-13.  Browner, 28, began his suspension Dec. 5, and will miss the
Seahawks’ final four regular-season games, including the Dec. 30
finale against the  St. Louis Rams . Seattle won all three of its
games in his absence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  