-- Shanghai Mulls Harsher Punishment for Food-Safety Violations
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-27T03:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/shanghai-mulls-harsher-punishment-for-food-safety-violations.html
Shanghai ’s government is considering
harsher punishments for companies that violate food safety rules,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday, citing the
city’s vice mayor.  Starting next year, the Eastern Chinese municipality may
introduce laws to blacklist businesses that use banned drugs or
harmful substances during planting, processing or transportation
of their produce, according to the report. The proposed
regulations will also prohibit activities including the
recycling food as a raw material, Xinhua reported, citing Vice
Mayor Shen Xiaoming.  The Shanghai measures are part of a nationwide push to
improve food safety, after recent reports on violations sparked
public outrage and increased scrutiny on the industry. China
Central Television reported on Dec. 18 some suppliers for  Yum!
Brands Inc. (YUM)  and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  were indiscriminately feeding
antibiotics and growth hormones to their chickens, while Xinhua
said last month some products made by baijiu company  JiuGuiJiu
Co. (000799)  were also found to have excessive plasticizer.  Errant businesses and company executives will be banned
from operating in the city, receive “administrative punishment
at the highest level,” and excluded from government subsidies
and preferential policies, Xinhua said, citing Gu Zhenhua,
deputy director of the municipal food safety committee office.  Shanghai’s Food and Drug Administration said on Dec. 20
that third-party tests between 2010 and 2011 found excessive
levels of antibiotics in eight batches of chicken supplied to
Yum, which operates the KFC and Pizza Hut chains in  China .  JiuGuiJiu apologized last month when samples of its drinks
were found to have more than three times the permitted level of
dibutyl phthalate, a plasticizer used to flavor drinks and in
plastic containers.  China had pledged greater consumer protection in 2008 after
milk tainted with melamine, a toxic chemical used to make
plastic and tan leather, was blamed for the death of at least
six babies and caused the hospitalization of tens of thousands
of children. Last year, the government also cracked down on the
use of cooking oil reprocessed from restaurant waste.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  