-- U.K. Says Solar Power Crucial to Meeting Renewable-Energy Goals
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-12-27T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/u-k-says-solar-power-crucial-to-meeting-renewable-energy-goals.html
The U.K., which had the wettest
summer in 100 years, added solar power to a list of technologies
deemed crucial to meeting renewable-energy and carbon-reduction
targets.  Solar photovoltaic power is on a list of nine technologies,
which also includes marine and offshore wind energy, the
Department of Energy and Climate Change said today in an e-
mailed statement. The U.K. aims to cut emissions by 34 percent
in 2020 from 1990 and has a European Union goal to get 15
percent of all energy from renewables by then.  The U.K. offers incentives for clean-energy projects as it
seeks to replace aging power stations without adding to
polluting emissions. Solar capacity increased more than fivefold
to 1.4 gigawatts in the year through June after costs fell 50
percent, the department said in an update to its Renewable
Energy Roadmap first published in July 2011. Total electricity
output from renewables rose 27 percent in the period, it said.  “Renewable energy is increasingly powering the U.K.’s
grid, and the economy too,” Energy and Climate Change Secretary
 Ed Davey  said in the statement. “I am determined that we get
ahead in the global race on renewables and build on the big-
money investments we’ve seen.”  Renewable-energy companies announced plans for U.K.
investments totaling 12.7 billion pounds ($20.5 billion) from
April 2011 through July 2012, DECC said. That spending could
support as many as 22,800 jobs, it said.  Gloomy Skies  Solar is luring investments even as Britain is lashed by
heavy rain.  Figures  from the U.K.’s Met Office show that 370.7
millimeters (14.6 inches) of rain fell in June, July and August
this year, making it the wettest summer since 1912. The European
Photovoltaic Industry Association has said Britain has the
fourth-most gloomy skies, only sunnier than Sweden, Norway and
 Finland  among a survey of 20 nations. Average solar irradiation
is about 6 percent lower than in  Germany , the biggest PV market.  To meet the EU renewables goal, which covers transport,
heating and power, the government seeks to get 30 percent of
electricity from renewables by 2020.  Last week, the energy department said 11.7 percent of U.K.
power came from renewables in the third quarter. In 2011,
renewable energy accounted for 3.8 percent of all energy, up
from 3.2 percent in 2010, the department said.  Subsidy Cuts  Solar installations have surged even as the government cut
subsidies for the technology in April and again in July. The
U.K. estimates capacity may reach as much as 20 gigawatts by
2020, according to today’s document.  “The ability to deliver further reductions in the
installed costs of solar PV will determine the level of sector
growth,” the department said. The government will outline a
solar strategy next year, it said.  The other technologies classed as “key” by the department
are: biomass electricity, onshore wind, biomass heat, ground-
source and air-source heat pumps, and renewable transport. When
the initial list was published last year, it was criticized by
solar-industry lobbyists and executives including  Good Energy
Group Plc (GOOD)  Chief Executive Officer Juliet Davenport for excluding
solar power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  