-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Advance as Budget Negotiations Resume
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-12-27T17:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/u-s-company-credit-swaps-decline-as-budget-negotiations-resume.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose for a fourth day as  consumer confidence  declined and
lawmakers returned to Washington to resume talks on a budget to
avoid the so-called fiscal cliff.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 2.2
basis points to a mid-price of 97.3 basis points at 12:07 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Earlier,
the index fell as much as 1.1 basis points.  Lawmakers resume budget talks today to avoid the more than
$600 billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts that
may cause an economic slowdown, hindering companies’ ability to
repay debt. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said a resolution
to the budget dispute before Jan. 1 appears unlikely. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday in a letter to
congressional leaders he will take “extraordinary measures” to
postpone a U.S. default while a deficit-reduction deal is worked
out.  “With each passing day the idea that we’ll go over the
fiscal cliff becomes more tangible,” Marc Pinto, head of
corporate bond strategy at Susquehanna International Group LLP,
said in a telephone interview from New York. “Clearly Senator
Reid’s comments today drove that point home. If the House
doesn’t return in 24 hours, we’ll probably see the CDX drift
wider into the close of the year.”  Consumer Confidence  Reid criticized the GOP-led House of Representatives for
not gathering, saying House Speaker  John Boehner  should call
members back today as time is running out. Boehner spokesman
 Brendan Buck  said in a message posted today on Twitter that the
speaker “told the president yesterday that the Senate must now
act. The House has already done so to avert the entire fiscal
cliff.”  Confidence among U.S. consumers declined in December as the
budget debate soured Americans’ outlook for the economy. The
Conference Board’s index of sentiment fell to 65.1 from a
revised 71.5 reading the prior month, figures from the New York-
based private research group showed today. The gauge was
projected to fall to 70, according to the Bloomberg survey
median.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Home Purchases  The stalemate in budget negotiations offset an increase in
sales of new houses, which rose to the highest level in more
than two years in November. Purchases climbed 4.4 percent to a
377,000 annual pace, the most since April 2010, the Commerce
Department said today in  Washington .  Applications for jobless benefits fell 12,000 to 350,000 in
the week ended Dec. 22, Labor Department figures showed.
Economists forecast 360,000, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey.  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt advanced 1
basis point to 5.14 percentage points today, led by spreads on
the bonds of consumer discretionary, energy and industrial
companies, which gained 2 basis points each, Bloomberg data
show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 6.5 basis points to 491.1 basis points, the
highest intraday level for the index since Dec. 10, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  