-- U.S. Internet Users Pay More for Slower Service
-- B y   S u s a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-12-27T23:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/u-s-internet-users-pay-more-for-slower-service.html
Terry Huval is a large, friendly man
with a lilting Southern accent who plays Cajun fiddle tunes in
his spare time. He is also the director of utilities in
Lafayette,  Louisiana . “Our job is making sure we listen to our
citizens,” he says.  In recent years, the citizens of Lafayette have been asking
for speedier Internet access.  In 2004, the Lafayette utilities system decided to provide
a fiber-to-the-home service. The new network, called LUS Fiber,
would give everyone in Lafayette a very fast Internet
connection, enabling them to lower their electricity costs by
monitoring and adjusting their usage.  Push-back from the local telephone company, BellSouth
Corp., and the local cable company, Cox Communications Inc., was
immediate. They tried to get laws passed to stop the network,
sued the city, even forced the town to hold a referendum on the
project -- in which the people voted 62 percent in favor.
Finally, in February 2007, after five civil lawsuits, the
Louisiana Supreme Court voted, 7-0, to allow the network.  From 2007 to mid-2011, people living in Lafayette saved
$5.7 million on telecommunications services.  Since Lafayette went down this path, other communities have
followed. According to the Institute for Local Self-Reliance, a
group that advocates for municipal fiber networks, these
community-owned networks are generally faster, more reliable and
cheaper than those of the private carriers, and provide better
customer service.  City Fiber  It’s not free. Fiber connection costs $1,200 to $2,000 a
house. It can take two to three years for revenue from any given
customer to offset the upfront investment. But then the  fiber
lasts  for decades. Municipal networks are seeing more than half
of households adopt the service. And scores of communities are
discovering that the networks bring new jobs.  Since the city utility in Chattanooga,  Tennessee , began
offering fiber-to-the-home, some businesses in Knoxville -- a
hundred miles to the northeast -- have been  adding jobs  in
Chattanooga. Yet when the utility tried in 2011 to expand its
fiber services to towns outside Chattanooga, the area’s private
carriers initiated a lobbying assault and  defeated  a bill in the
state legislature that would have allowed the expansion.  Also in 2011, six Time Warner lobbyists persuaded the
North Carolina legislature to pass a “level playing field”
bill making it impossible for cities in that state to create
their own high-speed Internet access networks. Time Warner,
which reported $26 billion in revenue in 2010, donated more than
$6.3 million to North Carolina politicians over four years.
Eighteen other states have laws that make it extremely difficult
or impossible for cities to provide this service to their
residents.  Still, other experiments are under way. In 2009, when
Google Inc. announced it would conduct a fiber-to-the-home pilot
project, more than 1,100 communities applied. The Kansas City
area, the winner, is now enjoying the launch of a fiber network
-- the fastest and most reliable way to access the Internet.  Internet access, like electricity, is crucial to the
economic and social health of the country. Electricity, however,
is provided by largely reliable, taxpayer-supported entities,
and no one seems to think the country would be better off if a
purely private, wholly deregulated operator were in charge. Such
a company might decide to provide service only in New York,
 Washington  and other big cities, at very high rates for those
who could afford it, and refuse to serve small towns and less-
successful areas.  Power Grid  This is exactly what happened in the 1880s, when privately
owned electric companies served big cities and the homes of the
rich, and everyone else intermittently if at all. By the
mid-1920s, 15 holding companies controlled 85 percent of the
nation’s electricity distribution, and the Federal Trade
Commission found that the power trusts  routinely gouged 
consumers.  In response, thousands of communities formed their own
electrical utilities. Now more than 2,000 U.S. communities,
including Los Angeles, San Antonio and  Seattle  provide their own
power. And electricity is a regulated public utility.  Why don’t Americans apply this same thinking to
communications?  After the Great Depression, the Federal Communications
Commission was given the job of providing the U.S. with a high-
quality communications system at reasonable rates. For 50 years,
the state oversaw the development of phone service. Providers
were prohibited from entering into other businesses and were
obliged to serve the public on nondiscriminatory terms. Anyone
could make a phone call to anyone else.  In the 1970s, communities began handing out exclusive
franchises to cable companies that could bring remote
entertainment into homes. Over the next 20 years, the cable
companies consolidated and swapped system franchises. By the
mid-1980s, the phone companies wanted to expand their bandwidth
to allow video delivery, too, but said they couldn’t attract the
needed capital unless they were released from the conditions
imposed on them by the AT&T breakup.  The arrival of commercial Internet communications in the
mid-1990s posed a threat to both the phone and cable companies;
eventually, the FCC deregulated the entire sector, thinking that
competition among various modalities of Internet access --cable,
phone, wireless, satellite -- would protect Americans. And in
2002, when the five-year period of deregulation began, there was
indeed rough parity in speed and price between the cable
companies and telephone companies providing Internet access.  Soon, however, cable companies found a way to upgrade their
networks to provide connections perhaps 100 times faster than
what was possible over copper wires, and at much lower expense
than the phone companies incurred replacing their phone lines.  Goodbye, Copper  The American copper wire telephone system is, in fact,
becoming obsolete. The physical switches used in the network are
reaching the end of their useful lives. But now that cable has
won the battle for wired Internet service and consumers are
moving to mobile phones for voice service, the telephone
companies are looking to shed the obligation to maintain their
networks at all.  Meanwhile, the U.S. is rapidly losing the global race for
high-speed connectivity, as fewer than 8 percent of households
have fiber service. And almost 30 percent of the country still
isn’t connected to the Internet at all.  To fix this problem, a new approach is needed.  The first step is to decide what the goal of
telecommunications policy should be. Network access providers --
and the FCC -- are stuck on the idea that not all Americans need
high-speed Internet access. The FCC’s National Broadband Plan of
March 2010 suggested that the minimum appropriate speed for
every American household by 2020 should be 4 megabits per second
for downloads and 1 Mbps for uploads. These speeds are enough,
the FCC said, to reliably send and receive e-mail, download Web
pages and use simple video conferencing. The commission also
said it wanted to ensure that, by 2020, at least 100 million
U.S. homes have affordable access to download speeds of at least
100 Mbps and upload speeds of at least 50 Mbps.  Such rates wouldn’t be difficult. Comcast Corp. is  already
selling  its 100-megabit service in the richest American
communities, though it costs $200 a month. In a sense, the FCC
adopted the cable companies’ business plan as the country’s
goal. The commission’s embrace of asymmetric access -- slower
upload than download speeds -- also serves the carriers’
interests: Only symmetric connections would allow every American
to do business from home rather than use the Internet simply for
high-priced entertainment.  Other countries have different goals. The South Korean
government announced a plan to install 1 gigabit per second of
symmetric fiber data access in every home by 2012. Hong Kong,
 Japan  and the Netherlands are heading in the same direction.
 Australia  plans to get 93 percent of homes and businesses
connected to fiber. In the U.K., a 300 Mbps fiber-to-the-home
service will be offered on a wholesale basis.  U.S. Stagnation  The current 4 Mbps Internet access goal is unquestionably
shortsighted. It allows the digital divide to survive, and
ensures that the U.S. will stagnate.  A smarter goal would be to give most Americans access to
reasonably priced 1 Gb symmetric fiber-to-the-home networks.
This would mean 1,000 Mbps connections, speeds hundreds of times
faster than what most Americans have today. Only fiber can meet
the growing demand for data transmission.  Think of it this way: With a dialup connection, backing up
5 gigabytes of data (now the standard free plan offered by many
storage companies) would take 20 days. Over a standard (3G)
wireless connection, it would take two and a half days. Over a
4G connection it would be more than seven hours, and over a
cable DOCSIS 3.0 connection, an hour and a half. With a gigabit
fiber-to-the-home connection, it can be done in less than a
minute.  If the U.S. had a fully fiber-based network, Hollywood
blockbusters could be downloaded in 12 seconds, video
conferencing would become routine, and every household could see
3D and Super HD images. Americans could be connected instantly
to their co-workers, their families, their teachers and their
health-care monitors.  To make this happen, though, the U.S. needs to move to a
utility model, based on the assumption that all Americans
require fiber-optic Internet access at reasonable prices.  How much would it cost to bring fiber to the homes of all
Americans?  Corning Inc. (GLW) , the American glass manufacturer, and
others have  estimated  that it would take between $50 billion and
$90 billion.  The Internet has taken the place of the telephone as the
world’s basic, general-purpose, two-way communication medium.
All Americans need high-speed access, just as they need clean
water, clean air and electricity. But they have allowed a naive
belief in the power and beneficence of the free market to cloud
their vision. As things stand, the U.S. has the worst of both
worlds: no competition and no regulation.  (Susan Crawford is a contributor to Bloomberg View and a
visiting professor at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government
and Harvard Law School. She is a former special assistant to
President  Barack Obama  for science, technology and innovation
policy. This is the last in a series of three excerpts from her
new book, “Captive Audience: The Telecom Industry and Monopoly
Power in the New Gilded Age,” which will be published Jan. 8 by
Yale University Press. Read  Part 1  and  Part 2 . The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan P. Crawford at  scrawford@scrawford.net  or  @scrawford  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 