-- Ulyukayev May Head Russian Central Bank, Storchak Says
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o ,   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2012-12-27T09:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/ulyukayev-may-head-russian-central-bank-storchak-says.html
Bank Rossii first deputy chief
 Alexei Ulyukayev  may have an edge over other candidates to
replace Sergey Ignatiev as chairman of  Russia ’s central bank
when he retires next year, a  Finance Ministry  official said.  Russia needs a central banker with experience in
international finance, which makes Ulyukayev a strong contender,
Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak said. Ulyukayev, 56,
joined Bank Rossii in 2004 after four years as first deputy to
then-Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin .  “The ideal candidate today is someone who knows the
financial system as a whole, all three of its components --
monetary, financial and fiscal,” Storchak said in an interview
in Bloomberg’s Moscow office Dec. 24.  Ignatiev, 64, has run the regulator for more than 10 years
and his third and final term ends in June. Named  Europe ’s best
central bank chief by The Banker magazine in 2011, he helped
bring inflation down to a  post-Soviet low  and oversaw the
accumulation of what was then the world’s third-largest foreign-
currency and  gold reserves , which peaked at $598 billion in
August 2008. He spent more than a third of that cash pile to
manage a gradual devaluation of the ruble that helped commercial
banks survive the 2008-2009 credit squeeze.  Ulyukayev, who speaks English and French, received a
doctorate from Pierre-Mendes  France  University in Grenoble,
France, after graduating from Moscow State University, according
to the central bank’s  website . He was an economic adviser to the
government in the 1990s and also served as a Moscow city
legislator and as deputy director of the research group now
known as the Gaidar Institute for Economic Policy. Bank Rossii
didn’t respond to a faxed request for comment on Ulyukayev’s
possible promotion.  Beefed-Up Bank  The next central bank governor will have expanded powers
once the regulator subsumes the  Federal Financial Markets
Service , which is also headed by a former Kudrin deputy,  Dmitry Pankin . Ignatiev said last week that Ulyukayev and Sergey Shvetsov, a deputy chairman of the central bank, are leading a
group charged with overseeing the process, which is scheduled to
start next year.  “Sergey Ignatiev has never played a very active role in
international issues,” said Storchak, who oversees Russian debt
and foreign financial relations at the Finance Ministry. “He
was more focused on the monetary policy inside the country, and
that’s not enough today.”  G-20 Presidency  Russia needs the central bank’s help to shape proposals on
a global financial overhaul during the country’s presidency of
the Group of 20 nations, Storchak said. Russia took over the
rotating role at the G-20 on Dec. 1 and will lead the Group of
Eight leading industrial economies in 2014.  “The priority for reform is a delicate topic -- shadow
banking,” Storchak said. “The chairman will need to be
extremely understanding of our G-20 partners because each
jurisdiction has its own understanding of what shadow banking
means.”  By those measures, Ulyukayev may be the best candidate,
Natalya Akindinova, head of the Center for Development at the
Higher School of Economics in Moscow, said by phone.  “He has been specializing in finance and monetary policy
all his life and has established a huge range of international
contacts,” Akindinova said.  Putin’s Ally  Kudrin, 52, a long-time ally of President  Vladimir Putin ,
was considered a leading candidate to replace Ignatiev,
Akindinova said. He may now be more interested in pursuing a
political career, she said.  Kudrin left as finance minister last year after a dispute
with then-President  Dmitry Medvedev  over military spending.
Putin said last week that Kudrin remains part of his “team.”
Kudrin declined to comment on possible successors to Ignatiev
when asked at a press conference last week.  “I’m not sure Kudrin would be interested,” said Storchak,
58, adding that he himself was “too old” for the job because
the new chairman should be in a position to hold the post for at
least 10 years. A central banker must have “the drive” to fit
the role.  By  law , Putin must nominate a candidate at least three
months before Ignatiev’s term ends, and that candidate must be
approved by a simple majority in the State Duma, the lower house
of parliament. If the candidate is rejected, the president has
two weeks to nominate another candidate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  