-- Victory Pharma to Pay $11.4 Million in Kickbacks Probe
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-12-27T20:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/victory-pharma-to-pay-11-4-million-in-kickbacks-probe.html
Victory Pharma Inc., a  San Diego ,
California-based pharmaceutical company, will pay $11.4 million
to resolve claims it paid kickbacks to doctors to induce them to
write prescriptions for Victory’s products.  Under a deferred prosecution agreement, Victory Pharma will
avoid criminal and civil liability for alleged kickback and
false claims violations in its marketing of Naprelan, Xodol,
Fexmid and Dolgic, the U.S. Justice Department said today in a
statement.  The kickbacks included tickets to professional and
collegiate sporting events, tickets to concerts and plays,
dinners at expensive restaurants and spa, golf and ski outings,
according to the statement. The settlement also resolves claims
Victory improperly used sales representatives’ “shadowing” of
doctors in their offices to induce doctors to prescribe the
company’s products, according to the statement.  “Kickback schemes undermine the integrity of medical
decisions, subvert the health marketplace and waste taxpayer
dollars,” Stuart F. Delery, a Justice Department deputy
assistant attorney general, said in the statement. “We will
continue to hold accountable those who refuse to play by the
rules and provide illegal incentives to influence the decision
making of health care providers.”  In July 2011, Shionogi Inc., the U.S.-based unit of  Japan ’s
Shionogi & Co., acquired all of Victory Pharma’s marketed
products, Shionogi said in a statement last year.  Jonathan Diesenhaus, a lawyer representing Victory Pharma,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  The allegations were part of a whistle-blower lawsuit filed
in federal court in San Diego.  The civil case is Miller v. Victory Pharma, 09-cv-00636,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  California  (San
Diego).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  