-- Vietnam’s Top Fund Sees Home-Grown Rally in 2013: Southeast Asia
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-28T08:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/vietnam-s-top-fund-sees-home-grown-rally-in-2013-southeast-asia.html
Vietnam ’s biggest fund manager is
betting the cheapest stocks in Southeast Asia will extend gains
as the economy recovers from the slowest growth in 13 years.  The stock market will rise steadily next year to reflect an
economic expansion of between 5 percent and 6 percent, said Andy Ho, managing director and head of investment at  VinaCapital
Investment Management Ltd.  in Ho Chi Minh City, which oversees
about $1.5 billion. The firm manages the five top performers
this year among 78 Vietnam equity funds, made up of multiple
listings of its two funds traded in the U.S.,  London  and  Germany ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Our strategy has and will continue to focus on the basic
sectors that contribute to the growth of the domestic
economies,” such as pharmaceuticals, education and agriculture,
Ho said in an e-mailed response to queries on Dec. 25, declining
to name specific stocks. “We will continue to focus in these
sectors because they continue to grow with the rapid-changing
demographics of Vietnam.”  The benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX)  has risen 18 percent in 2012, the
first advance in three years, as the central bank reduced
borrowing costs amid signs inflation was under control. The
measure trades at 10.6 times  estimated earnings , below the five-
year average of 11.2 and the lowest among the six Southeast
Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Earnings per share for the 308 companies on the gauge are
expected to rise 9.3 percent this year, and profit growth is
forecast to double to 18 percent in 2013, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Vinamilk Jumps  Among VinaCapital’s best performers are  Vinamilk (VNM)  or Vietnam
Dairy Products Joint-Stock Co., the nation’s biggest listed
dairy producer. The stock has risen 53 percent in 2012 and
jumped to a record high in October after the company posted a 35
percent gain in pretax profits in the first nine months of the
year.  Vegetable Oil Packing Joint-Stock Co. (VPK) , which makes
containers for the food processing industry and is part owned by
Vinamilk, is the biggest gainer in the index this year after
rallying four-fold.  Dominic Scriven, chief executive officer of Ho Chi Minh
City-based fund manager Dragon Capital, said in a phone
interview yesterday there’s “cautious optimism” about the
outlook for stocks as concerns about non-performing loans at
banks are countered by easing inflation.  ‘Damaging Process’  Banks have reported bad debt to be about 4.5 percent of
outstanding loans, while the central bank’s estimate is about
8.75 percent, the International Monetary Fund has said. Credit
growth this year was about 7 percent, the central bank said
yesterday. That compares with 14 percent last year and 32
percent in 2010, the IMF said.  “The optimism is that we are some way through this
damaging process,” Scriven said. “The biggest single issue is
probably confidence. At all levels, confidence is very low:
banks aren’t lending, companies aren’t investing, consumers
aren’t buying, people aren’t investing in real estate.”  Scriven has reduced his holdings in banks and is
maintaining his heaviest weightings in consumer companies
including Vinamilk and  Masan Group Corp. (MSN)  His Vietnam Growth Fund
has gained 26.6 percent over the past year, beating 76 percent
of peer funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Improved Tremendously’  Inflation slowed for the first time in four months in
December, with consumer prices rising 6.81 percent from a year
earlier after gaining 7.08 percent in November, the government
said. The inflation rate was 23 percent in August 2011.  “The macro has improved tremendously,” said  Kevin Snowball , chief executive officer of PXP Vietnam Asset
Management in Ho Chi Minh City, who last month correctly
predicted a rebound in Vietnam stocks. “We stand by that, that
the bad news has been priced in the market. Once the selling
pressure is gone, it doesn’t take too long for the turnover to
get going again.”  PXP Vietnam Fund (PXPVIET)  posted a 33 percent return on net asset
value as of yesterday, Snowball said, which would be twice the
gain of the benchmark measure.  The VN Index gained 8.4 percent since he forecast a year-
end rally in a Nov. 26 report. In 2013, he will be monitoring
the recovery in the U.S. and  China  and how that affects
Vietnam’s exports.  “As long as the U.S. and China continue to perform,
Vietnam will continue to make stuff they want and make more of
it,” he said. “We’ve seen a move up in the production value
chain with Vietnam becoming a mini-China.”  Rate Cuts  Vietnam’s economy expanded at the slowest pace in 13 years
in 2012 as a slump in bank lending damped domestic demand. Gross
domestic product rose 5.03 percent, down from 5.89 percent in
2011 and the least since 1999 when it grew 4.77 percent, the
General Statistics Office said Dec. 24. Vietnam may expand about
5.5 percent next year, the government said on Dec. 10.  The monetary authority this month cut benchmark interest
rates for a sixth time to help companies “cope with
difficulties in production and business,” even as the World
Bank warned against easing too soon.  The State Bank of Vietnam’s refinancing rate was lowered to
9 percent from 10 percent, while the discount rate was cut to 7
percent from 8 percent, the central bank said on its website on
Dec. 21. The refinancing rate was 15 percent at the beginning of
the year, while the discount rate was 13 percent.  “The bright side is that inflation is tamed and thus, the
regulators have plenty of room to loosen monetary policy to
stimulate growth,” Ho said.  More Weaknesses  The Vietnam stock index dropped 2 percent in the past six
months, the worst performer in Asia after Mongolia and among the
10 biggest decliners globally in that period. Prime Minister
Nguyen Tan Dung said last month that he will stay in his job
after lawmakers criticized his handling of the economy.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Vietnam’s credit rating in
September, citing “more pronounced weaknesses in the banking
system” and costs related to recapitalizing banks. Concerns
about the sector are increasing, the World Bank said this month,
even as the government said it averted risks to the safety of
the lenders.  The Asian Development Bank said in a report on Dec. 7 that
private consumption and investment are bolstering Southeast
Asian economies even as the rest of the region is forecast to
expand less than initially estimated. Among the region’s
economic areas, it only raised its projections for Southeast
Asia, predicting an expansion of 5.3 percent in 2012 from 5.2
percent earlier.  The prospects for developing Asian nations contrast with
the fiscal and demographic challenges faced by more advanced
economies, as higher public spending and younger populations
support domestic demand and lure investment even as global
expansion weakens.  “Vietnam, with a young and growing population of 90
million people and full of natural resources, represents a
tremendous amount of opportunities for investors to make solid
returns,” Ho said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  