-- West Texas Crude Weakens Prior to El Paso Refinery Maintenance
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2012-12-27T21:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/west-texas-crude-weakens-prior-to-el-paso-refinery-maintenance.html
Western  Texas  crude weakened prior
to maintenance at a refinery that’s a large consumer of oil
produced in the region.  Western Refining Inc. (WNR)  plans to shut part of one plant at
the 128,000-barrel-a-day El Paso refinery for several weeks
starting in February,  Gary Hanson , a Tempe, Arizona-based
spokesman, said Dec. 6. The two-plant refinery processes mostly
West Texas Intermediate oil, according to a company  presentation 
on its website.  WTI crude delivered in Midland, Texas, declined $2.75 to a
$14-a-barrel discount to the same grade delivered in Cushing,
 Oklahoma , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A glut of supply from shale oil production has overwhelmed
pipeline capacity out of the western part of the state, causing
crude prices there to fall rapidly on any disruptions to local
demand. On Nov. 20, WTI Midland dropped to $20 below Cushing
prices, its widest discount ever, with  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s Borger,
Texas, refinery down for extended maintenance.  Texas oil  production  increased 33 percent to an average of
2.05 million barrels a day in September from a year earlier,
Energy Department data show. New drilling techniques have
unlocked oil in shale rock formations, boosting the state’s
output to the highest level since 1988.  Transport Costs  WTI crude delivered at Midland has historically traded less
than $1 below the Cushing price, reflecting the transportation
cost between the two points. This year, the oil has traded at an
average discount of $3.99 because of pipeline constraints.  In  Canada , Syncrude was unchanged at parity with WTI,
according to Calgary energy broker Net Energy Inc.  Nexen Inc. (NXY) 
started maintenance late yesterday at the Long Lake upgrader in
 Alberta , which will affect its synthetic crude oil shipments,
Patti Lewis, a company spokeswoman based in Calgary, said in an
e-mail.  Long Lake production was about 34,000 barrels a day at the
end of October, according to the company’s third-quarter
earnings release.  Western Canada Select, a heavy crude grade, strengthened 50
cents to a $33-a-barrel discount to WTI, Net Energy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  