-- Why District Steam Heat Flopped in Gilded Age New York
-- B y   S e a n   A d a m s
-- 2012-12-27T16:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/why-district-steam-heat-flopped-in-gilded-age-new-york.html
In this age of extreme weather,
blizzards seem more and more frequent, with increasing costs to
the  U.S. economy .  There is no shortage of smart solutions to minimize the
impact. Sometimes, however, the expense of beating the weather
can exceed the benefits, as the backers of district steam heat
in  New York City  found out more than a century ago.  On the morning of March 13, 1888,  New Yorkers  awoke to find
their city paralyzed by a sudden and unexpected blizzard. The
combined effect of two feet (60 centimeters) of snowfall and
winds of 50 miles (80 kilometers) per hour froze trains and
streetcars, piled up massive drifts, and stopped all business.  This storm became known as the “Great White Hurricane,”
and it resulted in at least 400 deaths and triggered chronic
heating-fuel shortages across the region. The New York Times
reported that in the tenement houses of the Lower East Side,
“women and children were running with pails from grocery to
grocery in every part of the east side vainly trying to buy
coal” and that in some cases “they had absolutely nothing in
their tenements except their scanty furniture with which to
maintain a fire.”  District Heating  The clients of the New York Steam Co., however, waited out
the Blizzard of 1888 in relative comfort, drawing upon a
patented system of “district heating” that used centralized
boilers and a network of main and branch pipelines to deliver
steam heat directly to their homes. Wealthy customers included
Henry Flagler and  John D. Rockefeller , who praised the system
pioneered just a decade earlier by Birdsill Holly, an engineer
from Lockport, New York. Centralized steam heat appeared to
offer an efficient alternative to an unreliable system of spot
markets and sporadic purchases of wood and coal by individuals
and families.  New York wasn’t the first district heating experiment: In
1881, 15 Holly patent companies pumped steam in cities such as
Denver, Detroit and Springfield, Massachusetts. But New York was
an important test market for the wider applicability of district
heating to domestic customers in the nation’s largest market.  The New York Steam Co. built a main plant with 48 boilers
of 250 horsepower, 16 on each of the three floors, with a 225-
foot chimney --- the second-largest structure on Lower  Manhattan 
after Trinity Church’s spire. In 1882, it began serving its
first customers, drawn mostly from the immediate area of the
company’s main plant. Once it extended pipelines up Fifth
Avenue, it catered to New York’s wealthy and powerful, and the
company offered a constant stream of testimonials from these
affluent clients.  Not all New Yorkers were thrilled with the costs of
implementing district heating. Ripping up the streets to lay
steam mains seemed bad enough in the short run, but when leaks
in the pipe network developed, “clouds of offensive vapor”
shrouded streets and nearby basements. Leakages also could lead
to explosions. When pipes belonging to the Citizens’ Steam Co.
in Lynn,  Massachusetts , exploded for the third time in two weeks
in the summer of 1882, stones and gravel flew 50 feet in the
air, injuring several people. New Yorkers feared that a similar
event on the Broadway steam mains would be devastating.  By 1888, steam pipes eroded underground electric lines and
wore away at the cement holding together brick sewers,
undermining both services and releasing “disagreeable odors”
all along the surface of Broadway.  Hiring Wildcats  District heating also proved elusive in making the jump
from affluent to modest consumers. Households that needed to
economize found both the fixed and variable costs of the system
to be high and rarely trusted the newly developed meters
employed to track usage. In some instances, potential customers
even hired wildcat steamfitters to tap the mains so as to help
themselves to the steam for free.  So despite its stellar performance during the Blizzard of
1888, district heating proved troublesome for the majority of
New Yorkers. It got worse for the  New York  Steam Co. In 1890,
the city’s Board of Heath declared steam mains on Broadway a
public nuisance. The threat of explosions, leaks that seeped
into residential basements, and increased heat in the city’s
sewer lines all created “conditions dangerous and detrimental
to life and health.” The Board of Public Works revoked the
company’s permits and issued an order to arrest any employee
found opening city streets.  Critics emphasized the company’s elite clientele, even as
they recognized the savings that steam heat might offer. “How
much that economy amounts to in individual cases we do not
know,” the Times argued, “but if it is a benefit at all it is
a benefit to a few persons, while the injury is borne by many
who have no interest in the steam-heating business.”  The New York Steam Co. subsequently shifted its strategic
goals toward large institutional clients and never
revolutionized home heating as it aspired to do only a decade
earlier. Its strategy of using elite clients to spread the good
news about district heating backfired miserably.  District heating survives today in large settings such as
universities, public buildings and hospital complexes, but the
revolutionary centralization of home heating never took off in
the way that Birdsill Holly and his supporters had hoped.  (Sean Adams is professor of history at the University of
 Florida  in Gainesville. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this post:
Sean Adams at  spadams@ufl.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 