-- Wild Oats XI Breaks Race Record to Win Sixth Sydney to Hobart
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-12-27T23:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/wild-oats-xi-wins-sixth-sydney-to-hobart-in-race-record-time-1-.html
Wild Oats XI broke its own race
record by almost 17 minutes to capture line honors in sailing’s
Sydney to Hobart for the sixth time in eight starts.  The 100-foot (30-meter) supermaxi, owned by wine producer
Bob Oatley and skippered by Mark Richards, finished the 628-
nautical mile event in 1 day, 18 hours, 23 minutes and 12
seconds, taking 16 minutes, 58 seconds off the record it set in
2005, when it also won the race on overall handicap.  The record had looked out of reach after winds that had
kept the boat ahead of pace weakened overnight. The breeze
picked up again this morning, allowing Wild Oats XI to increase
speed to about 15 knots (17 miles-per-hour) and cross the finish
line at  7.23 a.m. local time , according to the race’s website.  “We only just made it but it’s a great result for the
whole team,” Richards said in a televised interview. “It was a
very tricky night, the breeze died on us. Getting the record is
a big thing and it’s very satisfying.”  Wild Oats XI has now beaten the fleet to Hobart in all but
two editions of the race since first entering in 2005. The
record for most line honors wins is held by Morna/Kurrewa IV,
which sailed to seven victories under two different owners and
two different names, the last time in 1960 as Kurrewa IV.  The pre-race favorite with bookmakers, Wild Oats XI was the
first of the 76 starters out of Sydney Heads on Dec. 26 and led
all the way in the 68th edition of the event that takes
competitors down  Australia ’s southeast coast and across Bass
Strait to the island state of Tasmania.  The victory came 12 months after Wild Oats was beaten by
Investec Loyal by 3 minutes, 8 seconds in the closest finish
since 1982. That defeat prompted modifications to improve its
speed under light winds with the addition of keel winglets, a
retractable bow centerboard and a light-weather headsail which
is larger than two tennis courts.  “New wings on the keel helped enormously I’m sure, so did
the new jib,” Oatley said. “The design, the crew, the sails
and the modifications are what makes the boat fast. We’ll try to
do it again next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  