-- With $5 Left, Actor Aces Hollywoood Screen Test: Books
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-12-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/with-5-left-actor-aces-hollywoood-screen-test-books.html
As a contract player at  Warner Bros .
in the early 1930s,  Lyle Talbot  was groomed for stardom. He
didn’t make it. By the ’50s he’d been reduced to roles in  Ed
Wood  movies and an ongoing part as a neighbor on “Ozzie and
Harriet.”  A moodier man might have seen himself as a failure. But as
his daughter, Margaret Talbot, recounts in her affectionate
biography-cum-history, “ The Entertainer ,” he always thought
his life had been touched by luck.  After all, during the worst years of the Depression he was
living the high life in Hollywood. Once, at the Cocoanut Grove,
he nearly came to blows with  Clark Gable  over Carole Lombard,
with whom he’d starred in the 1932 “No More Orchids.”  Later, he was always able to make a living doing what he
loved: acting. And after four short-lived marriages, he found a
prize in his fifth wife (who was 26 years younger). They were
together for 40 years.  Their four kids all grew up to make them proud. The author
-- the youngest -- has had a distinguished career in magazines
and is now a staff writer for the  New Yorker . Surprisingly, this
is her first book.  In a way, it’s like a gargantuan New Yorker article. She
seems to have assumed that a biography of a minor American actor
wouldn’t hold sufficient interest for a wide audience and to
have felt she needed to turn it into something richer.  Genetic Modesty  (She’s inherited her modesty from her father. In 1933, a
Variety reporter wrote, “Talbot seems a pretty regular guy.
Made a quick jump upward in film circles, but hasn’t let it
stampede him. Gives all the credit to lucky breaks.”)  The arc of his life gave her the opportunity. Born in 1902
and brought up in a small Nebraska town, Lyle Talbot started on
the lowest rung of show business as a carnival barker, then
worked as a hypnotist’s assistant, a vaudeville performer and,
finally, a touring actor.  He had a disastrous debut: Playing a drunk who was supposed
to enter and slug the star, he knocked him out cold.  He stayed on the road for 10 years, rising to leading-man
status and at one point starting his own company. Then the
Depression hit. He was stranded in  Dallas  in 1930, his funds
down to $5, when the invitation for a screen test arrived from
Hollywood.  As so often, he was in luck. During the silent era,
Hollywood had tended to look down on stage actors; with the
advent of the talkies, it needed them.  No Surgery  The author has more than amply researched each of these
topics -- in addition to early cosmetic surgery (Lyle didn’t
need it), dance marathons, the Production Code, the Screen
Actors Guild (Lyle was a founding member) and on and on.  And so, in addition to biography, “The Entertainer”
functions as a history of American popular entertainment from
the late 19th century to the age of television -- a highly
informative and readable one.  Research hound that she is, Talbot is addicted to facts.
(“The popcorn harvest in the  United States  grew from 5 million
pounds in 1934 to 100 million in 1940.”)  As a result, her book feels somewhat overstuffed -- even if
I can’t say what I’d take out. In the last chapter, though, on
her parents’ marriage and her childhood, she lightens up on the
research and her already wonderful writing soars.  It made me sorry that Lyle Talbot didn’t live long enough
(that is, to the age of 110) to read his daughter’s tribute and
feel the full measure of his luck.  “The Entertainer: Movies, Magic and My Father’s 20th
Century” is published by  Riverhead (PSON)  (418 pages, $28.95). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 