-- Wood-Panel Rally Seen Fizzling Amid Increasing Supply
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-12-27T21:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/wood-panel-rally-seen-fizzling-amid-increasing-supply.html
Wood-panel makers  Norbord Inc. (NBD)  and
 Ainsworth Lumber Co. (ANS) , among the best-performing Canadian stocks
this year, will probably cool in 2013 as the accelerating U.S.
housing recovery entices producers to restart idled mills.  Norbord and Ainsworth, both controlled by  Brookfield Asset
Management Inc. (BAM/A) , have more than tripled this year in Toronto
trading, posting the fourth- and second-best returns
respectively among companies with market values exceeding C$200
million ($201 million), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
A slowdown of price and share increases is possible as North
American producers ramp up output of oriented-strand board, a
plywood substitute, according to analysts at  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD)  and ERA Forest Product Research.  “There is some risk in the second half of 2013, as you see
more and more of that incremental OSB production hitting the
market,” David Elstone, a Gibsons, British Columbia-based
analyst at ERA, said last week in an interview. “We’re still
calling for exceptionally high panel prices in the first half
and then a decline from there.”  Prices for OSB and other building materials have been
rising since last year after they slumped as the U.S. housing
market began to collapse in 2006. “Substantial” mill closings
across  North America  since then set the stage for a recovery in
lumber, Toronto-based  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  said last week.  Rising Prices  Lumber futures in  Chicago  have soared 55 percent in the
past year because of an improving outlook for U.S. construction
and predictions of increased demand in  Asia . In that time,  OSB
prices  have increased 86 percent, according to Random Lengths, a
forest-industry news service.  The rebound in demand has benefited producers including
Nashville, Tennessee-based  Louisiana-Pacific Corp. (LPX) , the world’s
largest OSB maker, which has more than doubled in  New York 
trading  this year  as the U.S. housing market improved.  That rise looks set to continue. The number of building
permits issued in the U.S. in November climbed to a four-year
high, according to Commerce Department figures released Dec. 19.
A proxy for future construction,  permits  have increased 28
percent this year, the data show.  “We do not doubt the U.S. housing recovery, but have
concerns that the restart of idled capacity will disrupt market
balance and keep downward pressure on OSB prices in the mid-
term,” Sean Steuart, a Toronto-based analyst at TD Newcrest
Inc., said in a Dec. 4 note to clients.  Boosting Output  Buoyed by fatter profit margins, Toronto-based Norbord, the
second-largest North American OSB maker by active capacity, and
Vancouver-based Ainsworth are taking steps to boost output, the
research firm ERA said Nov. 27 in a note.  U.S. producers also are reopening shuttered capacity to
make OSB, which is formed by bonding wood flakes together with
wax and resin.  Louisiana-Pacific is preparing to boost output from the
Peace Valley OSB mill in British Columbia in the first quarter
while closely held Atlanta-based Georgia-Pacific LLC is
activating an OSB factory in  South Carolina , according to ERA.  Elstone estimates benchmark OSB prices will average $400
per thousand board feet in the first quarter, $385 in the
second, $340 in the third and $270 in the fourth as the
restarted mills ramp up their production. That compares to $345
last week.  Paul Quinn , a Vancouver-based analyst at Royal Bank of
Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit, projects $325 in the first
half and $275 in the final six months.  ‘Pretty Robust’  OSB markets will be “pretty robust” next year, Norbord
Chief Financial Officer Robin Lampard said last week in a
telephone interview.  “That’s simply predicated on our view of what it takes to
get capacity back up and running,” she said from Toronto.
“It’s simply not possible to ramp up quickly enough to catch up
to the overall rising tide of OSB demand.”  Norbord  rose  1.4 percent to C$30.65 at the close in
Toronto. Ainsworth, which today announced the completion of a
C$175 million rights offering, fell 2.9 percent to C$2.69.  Owners of mothballed mills will be constrained by a lack of
available workers in some areas, the need to re-establish wood-
gathering networks and emerging delays in acquiring parts and
equipment necessary for the restarts, Lampard said.  ‘Few Bumps’  Ainsworth Chief Financial Officer Rick Eng declined a
request to comment on the outlook for the OSB industry and
prices.  As the U.S. housing market recovers, it’s not unrealistic
to expect a “few bumps in the road” as the industry returns to
historical levels of activity, Andrew Kuske, a Toronto-based
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a Dec. 19 note to
clients.  “We view the factors contributing to margin expansion as
largely outweighing the risks associated with a renewed pace of
industry restarts,” Kuske said. He raised his 12-month forecast
on Norbord to C$36 from $24.  The company “continues to face positive momentum coming
from the ongoing U.S. housing market recovery,” Kuske said in
the note.  RBC’s Quinn says he expects the industry will be
“rational” in bringing back idled capacity in 2013.  Still, he says the OSB industry’s track record for managing
panel supply isn’t reassuring.  “At the top of the market in 2006, everybody added new
capacity,” Quinn said last week in a telephone interview.
“When the market crashed, they didn’t take down supply fast
enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  