-- Mylan Suit Against FDA Over Generic Heart Drug Dismissed
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-12-27T19:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/mylan-suit-against-fda-over-generic-heart-drug-dismissed-1-.html
Mylan Inc. (MYL) ’s lawsuit against the
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  for withholding approval for
the company to sell a generic version of  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s heart
pill Diovan was dismissed by a federal judge in Washington.  The FDA didn’t act “capriciously” when it denied Mylan
exclusivity to market its version of Diovan, and Mylan failed to
show it suffered “irreparable harm” as a result, U.S. District
Court Judge John D. Bates said in an opinion filed today.  “Given Mylan’s status as a leading generic manufacturer
and its already-large market presence, the potential financial
impact on Mylan’s business is too small to support a finding of
irreparable harm,” Bates wrote in the 25-page opinion.  In its lawsuit, Mylan had argued that a competitor, Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd., had forfeited its right to six-month
exclusivity to sell the generic drug by not winning FDA
approval. Mylan asserted that the FDA’s refusal to approve its
sale of the drug was arbitrary and capricious and an abuse of
discretion.  On Sept. 21, Mylan, based in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania,
announced a copy of Diovan HCT, a combination of the Novartis
drug and hydrochlorothiazide, a diuretic, while Novartis’ own
generics unit started marketing a branded version of the same
drug.  Six Months  Sandy Walsh  and Erica Jefferson, spokeswomen for the FDA,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
lawsuit’s dismissal. Nina Devlin, a spokeswoman for Mylan,
didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  Diovan generated $5.7 billion in revenue around the world
last year, according to Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis’s
annual report.  Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, the company that files the
first FDA application to sell a generic drug gets the right to
sell it exclusively for six months if it is approved.  The case is Mylan Laboratories v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 12-cv-01637, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 