-- Yuan Sets Tone for Asia as Japan Dethroned by China: Currencies
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-12-28T14:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-27/yuan-sets-tone-for-asia-as-japan-dethroned-by-china-currencies.html
Asian central banks are tolerating
gains in their currencies against the yen as China’s economic
recovery diminishes concern that stronger exchange rates may
damp their export advantages.  South Korea ’s won has climbed a record 20 percent against
the yen this year while  Taiwan ’s dollar rose 17 percent and the
 yuan  gained 13 percent. Asian currencies moved more in sync with
the yuan than the yen over the past year, correlation data show.  The outperformance of currencies in developing  Asia 
relative to the yen signals China’s dominance in shaping the
region’s economy as  Japan’s influence  wanes. China, the largest
trading partner of South Korea and Taiwan, is rebounding from a
slowdown over the past seven quarters, while  Japan ’s growth is
forecast to decelerate next year, according to the median
estimate of about 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Central banks are not standing in the way of their
currency appreciation,”  Edwin Gutierrez , who helps oversee $11
billion in emerging-market debt at Aberdeen Asset Management
Plc, said in a phone interview from  London  yesterday. “The yuan
is becoming more influential for those currencies. Japan’s role
is diminished because of the rise of China.”  South Korea’s new government won’t see the need for
intervention because the  exchange rate  is more influenced by
external economic trends rather than domestic ones, said Kim
Jong In, an adviser to President-elect Park Geun Hye, by
telephone on Dec. 20.  Taiwan Mandate  Taiwan’s central bank Governor Perng Fai-Nan said on Dec.
19 that the monetary authority’s mandate is to keep relative
exchange-rate stability and to intervene in the event of
abnormal moves. He made similar comments in September when the
 Taiwan dollar  was 12 percent cheaper versus the yen.  Thailand ’s policy makers seek to let the baht move in line
with the market as foreign inflows increase, Bank of Thailand
Deputy Governor Pongpen Ruengvirayudh said on Dec. 15. At 11
percent, foreign ownership in Thailand’s bond market is still
low, compared with as much as 40 percent of its peers, he said.  The Bloomberg JP Morgan Asia Dollar Index has risen 2.5
percent this year after reaching 118.14 on Nov. 29, the highest
level since September 2011, as the region’s economic growth
attracts foreign capital. The yuan advanced to a 19-year high of
6.2223 per dollar in November and trades at the strongest level
since May 2010 against the yen.  Stronger Won  The won touched 12.37541 per yen today, the strongest level
since May 2010, while Taiwan’s dollar reached a 31-month high
versus Japan’s currency. South Korea and Taiwan compete with
Japan in electronics and information technology.  Asian economies outside Japan are recovering from the
slowest expansion in three years.  China ’s manufacturing grew in
November for the first time in 13 months, an index compiled by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed. Taiwan’s
 industrial output  climbed to the highest in nine months in
November. South Korea’s industrial production increased 2.9
percent in November from a year earlier, the fastest growth
since May, while the current account surplus reached a record
$6.9 billion, Statistics Korea said today.  Japan’s economy is moving in the opposite direction as
exports dwindle. Growth will slow to 0.65 percent next year from
1.7 percent in 2012, according to the median forecast of 50
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That compares with the average
expansion of 6.7 percent in the region in 2013 and 8.1 percent
in China, surveys show.  Abe’s Pledge  The yen weakened past 85 per dollar on Dec. 26 for the
first time since September 2010 as incoming Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe said he would push for “bold monetary
easing.” Japan’s cumulative trade deficit for the first 11
months of 2012 amounted to 6.28 trillion yen ($73 billion), more
than double the record shortfall in 1980.  China, which surpassed Japan as the world’s second-largest
economy in 2010, accounted for 25 percent of South Korea’s
exports this year and absorbed 27 percent of the shipments from
Taiwan, according to the countries’ customs data. Japan took in
less than 10 percent of the exports from South Korea and Taiwan.  The correlation between the Taiwan dollar and the yuan over
the past year reached 0.36, compared with 0.13 between the peso
and the yen, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A higher
number indicates that one trades more closely to the other, with
a reading of 1 indicating two move in lockstep.  Yuan Outlook  “As  China’s economy  rebounds, the yuan should appreciate
faster next year than in 2012,” said Vincent Wu, a Taipei-based
head of fixed-income at Fuh-Hwa Securities Investment Trust Co.,
which oversees NT$150 billion
($5.2 billion) of assets, said in an interview yesterday. “The
yuan’s strength makes them more comfortable in letting their own
currencies appreciate.”  South Korea and  Philippines  will step up efforts to
restrain the currency appreciation as they try to protect their
exports, according to  Brown Brothers  Harriman & Co.  The Philippines imposed limits on currency forward
positions at banks on Dec. 26 after the peso advanced 6.5
percent in the past year to 41.125 per dollar. The cap for non-
deliverable currency forwards at local banks is 20 percent of
capital, and 100 percent for foreign lenders. South Korea
adopted a similar measure a month earlier.  “We still think that the outperformance of both peso and
won over other regional currencies has reached an end for the
time being,” currency strategists led by  Marc Chandler  at Brown Brothers wrote in a note to clients on Dec. 26, citing currency
intervention risk.  Asian currencies will keep rallying against the yen over
the next two years, according to the median forecast of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The yuan may rise 6.4 percent against the
yen by 2014, according to the median estimate of analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  China View  China has reduced currency intervention as policy makers
increased the daily limit that the yuan is allowed to rise or
fall in April to 1 percent from 0.5 percent. China will increase
the movement of the yuan “appropriately” to handle the latest
rounds of policy easing by the world’s central banks, the
official Xinhua News Agency said in an editorial on Dec. 21.  “Even though we think that the yen weakness is going to
continue, we don’t think that investors should worry about that
when it comes to allocations to Asia currencies,” said Monty Gandhi and Dirk Willer, currency strategists at Citigroup Inc.
in  New York , wrote in a note on Nov. 28. “Non-Japan Asia’s
manufacturing is more similar to that of China than to Japan.
Hence policy makers in Asia are more wary of relative strength
of their currencies versus China than Japan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  