-- A Better Welcome for Iran’s New President
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-04T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/a-better-welcome-for-iran-s-new-president.html
The U.S. House of Representatives has
a peculiar way of welcoming Iran’s new president. Just days
before today’s inauguration of Hassan Rohani, who has vowed to
 improve relations  with the outside world and bring transparency
to  Iran’s nuclear program , the House  approved  legislation that
would impose the harshest sanctions to date on Iran.  It’s possible to doubt both the sincerity of Rohani’s
pledges (or at least his ability to follow through on them) and
the value of the House’s legislation. Paradoxically, the vote
 weakens the hand  of President  Barack Obama  as he tries to
prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons -- preferably
without resorting to war.  About Rohani: It’s true that he will serve Supreme Leader
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , whom he has known since their military
service in the 1970s and who has seconded none of Rohani’s
comments. It’s also true that Rohani is no friend of the West. A
cleric and an activist in the revolution that created the
Islamic Republic, Rohani is  part of  the conservative
establishment in Iran.  Nevertheless, Rohani is now the Iranian president, and at a
time when the window for a negotiated settlement is closing. In
its  latest assessment , the Institute for Science and
International Security estimates that Iran will be able to
produce, undetected, enough weapon-grade uranium for a nuclear
bomb by mid-2014.  It may be that Iran is hellbent on getting the bomb. Or it
may be that Khamenei means it when he says that such a weapon is
un-Islamic (Rohani says the same) and that he would be content,
provided sanctions were lifted, with the soft power conferred by
an internationally supervised civilian nuclear program with a
limited enrichment capacity. Or it may be that Khamenei prefers
not to develop nuclear weapons at all, but thinks he must to
protect the Iranian regime, which he believes the U.S. wants to
oust.  Given the lack of transparency in Tehran, the U.S. may
never know which of these hypotheticals is true. One way to find
out -- that is, to get  Iran  to be more forthcoming about its
intentions -- may be for the U.S. to become more straightforward
about its own. It’s unreasonable to expect Iran to make the
first move. The U.S. is the more powerful country; Iran has more
to fear in their confrontation.  The Obama administration might start by showing Iran
greater respect: Stop calling it a “pariah state,” for
example. The administration could also broadcast plainly that it
doesn’t seek regime change in Tehran. The president could
promise that as long as nuclear negotiations progress, he will
veto any new sanctions passed by Congress and desist from
issuing sanctions through executive order. Officials could let
it be known how sanctions would be reduced and what security
guarantees there would be if an agreement with Iran were
reached.  The U.S. has already said that it will accept a limited
enrichment capacity in Iran, once the country meets its
obligations to the  International Atomic Energy Agency . Obama
would do well to emphasize this point: The importance of a clear
U.S. acknowledgement of what Iran calls its “right to enrich”
can’t be overstated, although the U.S. needn’t use that
controversial term.  If it’s soft power Iran seeks, then enrichment is essential
to its leaders. Yes, Iran could still build a bomb, but with a
restricted and supervised enrichment program, the IAEA would
have considerable warning.  That potential for Iran -- and the promise, for those
worried about such potential being fulfilled, of sufficient
notice -- is the intersection where a deal is possible. Reaching
it will require convincing Iran that U.S. policy goes beyond
imposing ever more punitive sanctions.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 