-- Alacer Sees Gold Output Falling in Australia as It Exits
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-08-05T08:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/alacer-sees-gold-output-falling-in-australia-as-it-seeks-to-exit.html
Gold output will fall in  Australia ,
the second-largest producer, as mining companies mothball mines
amid falling prices, according to  Alacer Gold Corp. (ASR)   “There’s going to be a lot more pain to come over the
course of the next 12 months,” David Quinlivan, the chief
executive officer of Englewood, Colorado-based Alacer said in an
interview yesterday in Kalgoorlie, the Western Australian town
595 kilometers (370 miles) east of the Perth which is hosting
the annual Diggers and Dealers mining forum this week.  Alacer is the third-biggest gold company traded in
Australia, the largest gold producer after  China . The company
sold its stake in an Australian mine in February and is seeking
to sell its two remaining assets there after taking charges of
$902 million on the unit unit since the last quarter of 2012.  From  Canada  to  New Zealand , gold producers have announced
writedowns of at least $20 billion over the past two months on
the falling bullion price and set out plans to cut jobs, pare
exploration budgets, crimp executive pay and halt mining. Gold
tumbled 22 percent this year and entered a  bear market  in April  “We’ll see a general tapering of production over the
course of the next year,” Quinlivan said, flagging the
likelihood that mines in Australia will be shuttered as
producers seek to curb costs.  Alacer fell 3.3 percent to A$2.32 at the close in Sydney.
Gold for immediate delivery rose 0.3 percent to $1,316.17.  The sale of Alacer’s two Australian mines was “drawing to
a close” and the company plans to update the market on its
preferred path within a month, Quinlivan said today in his
presentation to the conference.  Expensive Mines  Without its Australian mines, one on the fringe of
Kalgoorlie and another 125 kilometers south, Alacer would be the
fifth-cheapest producer globally under the World Gold Council’s
proposed all-in sustaining cash cost measure, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch analysts led by Stephen Gorenstein said in a note
to clients July 31.  Its Copler mine in  Turkey  had an average cost of $885 an
ounce in the June quarter on an all-in basis, which includes the
costs of exploration, administration and mine development.  The measure shows about 30 percent of the industry is
unprofitable at a gold price of less than $1,200 an  ounce,
Gorenstein wrote.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest
producer, said Aug 1. it would probably cut output at mines that
have forecast all-in costs this year above $1,000 an ounce.  Australia needs “fundamental shifts” to reduce labor
costs and boost productivity, Quinlivan said. “We still face
competition with the big offshore oil and gas construction areas,
so in some areas of the labor market there is still quite high
pressure on labor costs, and there probably will be for the next
couple of years.”  No Currency Relief  A slide in the Australian dollar hasn’t provided relief for
producers, particularly those with open pit mines requiring
large numbers of trucks, as diesel fuel costs are mainly set in
U.S. dollars. “It’s not all one-way traffic,” from the
declining Australian currency, Quinlivan said.  Barrick is seeking to dispose of some Australian assets,
while  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , the second-largest gold producer,
has cut staff and written down the value of its operations in
the country.  Some companies may seek to exploit gold’s slump to target
struggling competitors and use the Kalgoorlie forum to discuss
takeovers or assets raids, according to organizers.  Market Bottom  “You’ll find there’ll be a few marriages made in the next
week,” Barry Eldridge, chairman of the Diggers and Dealers
forum said by phone, ahead of the three-day event which opens
today. “The smart ones take advantage of this market, and if
you are cashed up there are lots of advantages there for you,
it’s like buying a house at the bottom of the housing market.”  There have been deals worth $11.5 billion announced or
completed this year, compared with $13 billion for the whole of
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Silver Lake Resources Ltd. (SLR)  announced a takeover of Integra
Mining Ltd. for A$426 million in shares during last year’s forum,
and more transactions are expected this year, said Eldridge, who
is also a board member of Sundance Resources Ltd. and Cliffs
Natural Resources.  Silver Lake  has declined 79 percent this year,
the worst performing company among the 43 commodity producers
scheduled to make presentations to the conference.  “In circumstances like this, Diggers and Dealers becomes
more relevant,” Eldridge said. “There are more deals done at
Diggers in the bad times than there are in the buoyant times.”  Quinlivan will address the forum today, along with speakers
including  Austan Goolsbee , former chairman of the White House
Council of Economic Advisers, and Nev Power, Chief Executive
Officer of  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , Australia’s third-biggest iron-ore producer.  Around 2,000 producers, investors, brokers and financiers
are gathering in Kalgoorlie for the forum, 400 fewer than
attended last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  