-- Warburg’s Rural/Metro Files for Bankruptcy Protection
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-08-05T15:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/ambulance-operator-rural-metro-seeks-bankruptcy-protection-1-.html
Rural/Metro Corp., a nationwide
ambulance operator owned by  Warburg Pincus  LLC, sought
bankruptcy protection after negotiating a proposal with lenders
and certain noteholders to cut debt by about half and obtain a
new infusion of equity capital.  The creditors’ support ensures the company will continue to
provide vital  emergency services , Chief Financial Officer
Stephen Farber said in court papers filed yesterday in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Under the proposed restructuring, secured lenders would
provide $75 million in financing to help fund the quick
turnaround effort intended to be completed before the end of the
year, according to court documents. Rural/Metro will seek court
approval to borrow as much as $40 million from the loan at a
hearing tomorrow.  Noteholders that are supporting the reorganization have
agreed to make a $135 million equity investment when the company
exits court protection, court papers show.  Holders of $308 million of senior notes would have their
debt swapped for all of the reorganized company’s equity,
subject to dilution for warrants to the noteholders providing
the exit investment and a management incentive plan, according
to court filings. All current equity interest in the company
would be canceled.  Reorganization Plan  Rural/Metro said it will submit its reorganization plan by
Sept. 15, in line with milestones in the creditors’ support
agreement, court papers show. The company would seek court
approval of its plan, designed to shed half of its $735 million
in funded debt, by Dec. 20 under the timetable.  The company said in court papers it was forced to seek
 bankruptcy protection  in part because it “experienced
significant challenges and disruptions operating its billing and
collections functions,” which resulted in “reduced revenue and
delayed cash collections.”  Among the largest unsecured creditors listed in court
papers are the holders of $308 million in 10.125 percent notes
due 2019 with Wells Fargo Bank NA as trustee.  Warburg Pincus, the New York-based investment firm, bought
Rural/Metro in July 2011 for about $676.5 million, including
$236.3 million in debt.  Rural/Metro missed a July 15 interest payment on senior
unsecured notes due in 2019, leading  Standard & Poor’s  to
downgrade the debt and the corporate  credit rating . The company
has two note issuances, of $200 million and $108 million. S&P
estimated that holders would recover no more than 10 percent in
the event of a default.  Assets, Debts  The company, based in Scottsdale,  Arizona , listed assets
and debt of more than $500 million each in Chapter 11 papers
filed yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,
Delaware.  The $200 million in notes today traded at about 59.8 cents
on the dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The $108
million in notes traded at about 56.3 cents on the dollar as of
today. Both had fallen more than 40 percent since May 16.  The company also has a $100 million senior secured
revolving credit facility and a $325 million  term loan . The
secured debt would recover 70 percent to 90 percent in a
default, S&P estimated in its July 24 report.  Firefighting Services  Rural/Metro provides ambulance and firefighting services to
about 700 communities in 21 states, according to its  website .
The company also offers industrial fire protection services to
airports, oil refineries and manufacturing plants and counts
 FedEx Corp. (FDX) , Citgo Petroleum Corp. and  Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s Bell
Helicopter as customers.  The company was started 65 years ago when founder Lou Witzeman bought a fire truck to protect his local community
after a neighbor’s house burned down, according to the site.  More than 50 affiliates of the company also filed
bankruptcy petitions, including ambulance services from
 Pennsylvania  to  California .  The case is In re Rural/Metro, 13-bk-11952, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  