-- Arnault Lets Them Eat Cake Amid Luxury Hospitality Push: Retail
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-08-05T18:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/arnault-lets-them-eat-cake-amid-luxury-hospitality-push-retail.html
French billionaire  Bernard Arnault 
wants you to spend the night and eat his pastries.  After decades of acquiring  luxury goods  that consumers can
drink and wear, the chairman of  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton
SA (MC)  last week bought the five-star Hotel Saint-Barth Isle de
 France  and in June added a storied Milanese cafe, accelerating
his push to meet all his well-heeled clients’ earthly needs.  The summer spending spree, which bookended LVMH’s $2.6
billion acquisition of Italian cashmere clothier Loro Piana SpA,
expands Arnault’s $95 billion  empire  in hospitality, part of a
broader shift by luxury brands into high-end services. As  Baby
Boomers  look for new ways to treat themselves and Millennials
define themselves more by what they do than what they own,
luxury brands are expanding beyond fashion and accessories as
they aim to keep customers interested.  Arnault is seeking “to own the whole spectrum, to have a
360-degree view on what the customer is doing, what they are
buying, what they are eating, where they are staying,” said
Laura Ford, a strategist at consultant Futurebrand in  London .
“It’s a move to keep relevant with consumers whose appetite for
luxury and definition of luxury are constantly changing.”  LVMH’s push into hospitality follows moves by companies
from Giorgio Armani SpA to Gianni Versace SpA to design hotels.
Roberto Cavalli SpA is adding cafes, Ermenegildo Zegna SpA is
supplying fabric to  Fiat SpA (FIAT)  Maseratis, while Gucci-owner Kering
SA has cozied up to clients with invitations to equestrian
events.  Cheval Blanc  By adding experiences, these companies can “offer
something truly unique and memorable,” said Jane Kellock,
senior vice president of fashion, beauty and color at Stylus, a
London-based research and advisory firm.  Successfully leveraging the trend could help restore LVMH’s
share price. The world’s largest luxury-goods producer has
gained about 1 percent this year in  Paris trading , trailing
Cartier-owner Cie. Financiere Richemont SA and Kering SA, which
have both gained about 30  percent .  LVMH shares fell 0.4 percent to 140.10 euros today in
Paris. Richemont dropped 0.9 percent, while Kering retreated 0.7
percent.  Arnault’s quest to feed, host and clothe wealthy consumers
doesn’t stop in St. Barths, where the acquired hotel is located,
 or Milan. LVMH is converting defunct Parisian department store
 La Samaritaine into a five-star hotel, slated to open by 2016. 
It’s also developing Cheval Blanc resorts from the French Riviera to 
the Sultanate of Oman, promising impeccable service and unforgettable
experiences.  Mongolian Yurt  At one resort in Courchevel, clients can hit the slopes
straight from a private chalet -- which can run about 7,000
euros a night --  while children are minded in a Mongolian yurt.
In the Maldives, guests stay in loft villas with private pools
and have an improvised dinner on a dhoni.  Hospitality “is a natural extension of LVMH’s activities
across the luxury spectrum,” the Paris-based company said when
it announced the St. Barths purchase, adding that the category
serves as another channel to sell and display its wares, which
include Benefit cosmetics and Kenzo perfumes.  “Being innovative along the desires and the interests of
these well-off whom we don’t want to get bored is the name of
the game,” said Ermenegildo Zegna, CEO of the luxury suitmaker
of the same name, which in April signed the  Fiat SpA (F)  deal.  Category expansion can, of course, lead to overexposure.
Pierre Cardin was among the first fashion companies to stretch
into fragrance and cosmetics in the 1960s. By 1988, the Cardin
name had been slapped on more than 800 licenses including
cigarettes and baseball caps, leading profit to slump, according
to Harvard Business Review.  Arnault is limiting that risk by only adding brands that
excel in specific businesses, according to  Armando Branchini ,
founder of Milan-based luxury consultant Intercorporate.  Ernest Hemingway  Situated next to Prada’s store on Milan’s tony via
Montenapoleone, Cova’s location and almost two centuries’
heritage make it a unique and authentic experience for shoppers
seeking to indulge a sweet tooth. Like  Ernest Hemingway ’s hero,
who stops off at Cova to buy chocolate in A Farewell to Arms,
clients today can order bespoke cakes.  While Cova’s 7.4 million euros 2011 turnover pales in
comparison to the LVMH’s  28 billion euros  of revenue last year,
Arnault is betting he can replicate its success around the
world.  “To be memorable, the experience most often needs to
combine with heritage,” Branchini said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  