-- Maurel’s Canadian Foray Part of ‘Riskier’ Exploration Drive
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-08-05T16:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/maurel-s-canadian-foray-part-of-riskier-exploration-drive.html
Etablissements Maurel & Prom SA (MAU)  is
moving into riskier exploration and unconventional projects in
Canada and Myanmar in a bid to boost reserves, according to
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Francois Henin.  “These will be high-risk operations to get high rewards,”
Henin said in an interview at the company’s new headquarters in
central Paris.  Separately, he said the explorer’s Gabon production is “on
track” this year after a disappointing 2012.  The shares rose 2 percent to close at 12.55 euros in Paris.  Maurel, which began two centuries ago as a trading company
between Bordeaux and former French colonies in West Africa, has
struggled to raise output and make new discoveries since selling
Congolese fields to  Eni SpA (ENI)  in 2007. Henin, who owns 24 percent
of the company, has tried to sell or find partners to bolster
Maurel’s size, which he said last year wasn’t sufficient to
allow it to remain independent.  Riskier exploration will be carried out through related
company  MPI (MPI) , which has reached a series of agreements since June
and has “globally” the same shareholders as Maurel, he said.  Maurel announced last week the acquisition of a 20 percent
stake for $22 million in  Deep Well Oil & Gas , which has leases
in Alberta oil sands, and interests in a dozen blocks in the
Peace River area of the Canadian province.  The deal follows another between Maurel, MPI and  Petrolia 
Inc. to explore and develop unconventional reserves in the Gaspe
region of  Quebec .  Iraq, Myanmar  Maurel signed an agreement in June to gain a 40 percent
stake in an exploration block offshore Myanmar from PetroVietnam
Exploration Production Corporation Ltd.  Maurel and MPI could also move into other exploration areas
with PetroVietnam as well as  Iraq , according to the CEO.  Maurel plans to drill later this year in Colombia, Gabon,
Myanmar and  Peru .  The explorer, which relies on Gabon for output, failed to
reach a production target in that country of 24,500 barrels of
oil equivalent a day after an incident at the Omoc-Nord field.  The goal this year is to reach 27,500 barrels a day
compared with 22,000 barrels a day at the end of 2012, the
company said at a  shareholders’ meeting  in June. Output averaged
16,000 barrels a day last year.  “We are right on target so far,” Henin said in relation
to 2013 output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  