-- Rudd Calls Sept. 7 Vote in Australia Showdown With Abbott
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-08-05T00:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/australia-s-rudd-calls-sept-7-election-in-showdown-with-abbott.html
Prime Minister Kevin Rudd called
 Australia ’s election for Sept. 7, as the reinstated Labor leader
seeks to overcome his party’s tarnished brand to beat Tony Abbott’s opposition.  Rudd, 55, will need to convince voters that a second term
will be more successful than his first, which ended in a party
coup engineered by colleagues disgruntled with his autocratic
style. Abbott, 55, who trails as preferred prime minister even
as his coalition holds a slim lead in opinion polls, faces the
challenge of transforming his negative image into that of a
leader with a policy platform for the nation.  “Voters will be looking to see if these men can overcome
their flaws,” said Andrew Hughes, who conducts political-marketing research at the Australian National University in
Canberra. “Rudd will want to show he can delegate to his team
and rule in an organized, efficient way, while Abbott needs to
display that he’s more than just an aggressive opposition
leader.”  Rudd and Abbott’s ability to woo voters with traditional
campaign spending promises will be hampered by dwindling
government revenue and slowing economic growth that prompted
Treasury last week to forecast the budget deficit will blow out
to A$30.1 billion ($26.8 billion) this fiscal year. Economic
management will be a centerpiece of the five-week campaign, as
both seek to convince voters they are best-qualified to steer
the world’s 12th-largest economy through a downturn as the
China-led mining boom wanes.  ‘Economic Challenges’  The election will be about who voters “trust to best lead
them through the difficult new economic challenges that now lie
ahead,” Rudd, who returned to the top job on June 26 after
defeating Julia Gillard in a leadership ballot, said yesterday.
“With the end of the China resources boom, we can no longer
afford to have all our eggs just in one basket.”  Since Rudd regained the leadership, his party has narrowed
the gap in opinion polls to Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition.
Labor trailed the opposition by four percentage points on a two-party preferred basis in a Newspoll published today, compared
with a 14-point deficit under Gillard. The two-party preferred
measure is designed to gauge which party is most likely to form
government under Australia’s preferential voting system.  Rudd’s Ratings  On the question of preferred prime minister, Rudd led
Abbott by 14 points. Rudd’s personal support dropped into
negative territory for the first time since he regained the
leadership, with voter satisfaction declining four points to 38
percent and dissatisfaction rising six points to 47 percent, the
poll showed.  Newspoll is 50 percent owned by News Corp. Australia and 50
percent by Millward Brown Inc., a market-research company  Rudd told reporters yesterday in Canberra he’s the
“underdog” in an election race that he said would be dominated
by negative, personal attacks from the opposition.  The script for any negative campaigning by Abbott could be
written by Rudd’s own Labor colleagues, some of whom criticized
what they labeled as the chaotic and dysfunctional style of his
first stint as prime minister from 2007 to 2010.  When Rudd launched an unsuccessful leadership challenge of
Gillard in February 2012, then-Treasurer Wayne Swan described
him as a man of “great weakness” who had demeaned his party
colleagues, while then-Attorney-General Nicola Roxon said she
witnessed him displaying “quite a lot of very bad behavior to
staff and to officials.”  Abbott’s advertising campaign will have “plenty of
material,” said Nick Economou, a political analyst at Monash
University in  Melbourne . “All they have to do is re-run all the
vile things his colleagues said about him last year.”  Lessons Learned  Rudd has said he’s learned lessons since Gillard ousted him
in a June 2010 party room coup, and told reporters yesterday the
“Australian people know me pretty well, warts and all.”  The Labor government has been “wracked by division and
dysfunction” and promises “more of the same if it’s re-elected,” Abbott told reporters yesterday.  “The choice couldn’t be clearer,” Abbott said. “The
choice is between the positive plans of the coalition and more
of the same under the Australian Labor Party.”  Rudd leads a  minority government , formed by Gillard in 2010
after the closest election in seven decades, that has relied on
independents and the Greens to pass laws. Labor holds 71 of the
150 seats in the lower house -- where government is formed.
Abbott’s coalition has 72 seats, with seven held by independents
or smaller parties.  Senate Race  Half the 76 Senate seats will also be up for grabs. The
coalition has 34 upper house seats, Labor 31 and Greens or
others 11.  Along with claims he leads a party riven by internal
divisions after three leadership challenges in as many years,
Rudd will have to rebut opposition attacks on Labor’s economic
stewardship.  The government on Aug. 2 projected a revenue shortfall of
A$33.3 billion over the next four years, from its last forecasts
2 1/2 months ago. Treasurer Chris Bowen cut the  economic growth
estimate this fiscal year to 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent seen
May 14 and said unemployment will rise to a more than decade-high 6.25 percent.  Treasury in May forecast a budget deficit of A$18 billion
for the year to June 30, 2014.  The Australian dollar declined 0.1 percent to 88.94 U.S.
cents as of 10:14 a.m. in Sydney. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index fell 0.1 percent to 5,110.3.  Jobs, Growth  Labor is trying to frame the election as a battle between
David Cameron-style austerity from the opposition and its own
program that allows the deficit to widen as it prioritizes jobs
and growth.  In preparing for the ballot, Rudd has sought to neutralize
policy issues that dogged Gillard’s three-year term and saw
Labor in danger of an electoral wipeout. He’s toughened Labor’s
stance against a rising number of asylum seekers arriving by
boat, and started sending them to Papua New Guinea.  Rudd has also pledged to legislate to change Gillard’s
climate change strategy that left Australia with the world’s
highest carbon price. Currently set at A$25.40 a ton for
2014-15, the price will move on July 1 next year to a floating
price of about A$6 if Labor wins the poll and can get
legislation passed by parliament.  The prime minister, who said Aug. 3 he wanted to attend the
Group of 20 summit in  Russia  on Sept. 5-6, said yesterday
Foreign Minister Bob Carr would go in his place.  Country Boy  Rudd, who yesterday painted himself as a country boy who
overcame humble beginnings to become prime minister, says he is
best placed to steer Australia through an economic downturn.  As employers including  Ford Motor Co. (F)  cut jobs, and the
central bank says growth is likely to remain below trend in the
near term, Rudd has ditched the optimism of Gillard to
acknowledge the economy faces profound challenges -- putting him
more in tune with voters.  In his first term as leader the fluent Chinese speaker
guided Australia’s economy through the global financial crisis,
boosting spending on schools and roads and distributing more
than A$20 billion in cash to households.  Carbon Trading  Support for Rudd dissipated after he shelved his plan for a
carbon-trading system and proposed a 40 percent tax on “super
profits” of resource projects in Australia. In the run-up to
his ouster, dissatisfaction with the former diplomat  climbed to
55 percent, an Australian newspaper poll showed in June 2010.  While Abbott has vowed to ax Labor’s emissions trading plan
and mining profits tax, to “stop the boats” and find ways to
open up the nation’s remote northern regions to agriculture, he
is yet to spell out a more detailed economic and social
blueprint.  As opposition leader the Rhodes scholar, former journalist
and one-time boxer took advantage of policy missteps by
Australia’s first female leader, and was credited with the
coalition’s lead in opinion polls during Gillard’s tenure. The
former trainee priest, who later married and raised three
daughters, has denied Gillard’s claim that he was guilty of
sexism and misogyny in his attacks on her leadership.  “Rudd is coming from a long way back and it will take a
monumental effort from here to win because the Labor brand is so
damaged,” said Norman Abjorensen, a political analyst at the
Australian National University. “Abbott’s street-fighter image
worked to his advantage for a long while but there are signs
that since Rudd’s return, he hasn’t seemed able to change
gear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  