-- Baby Formula Brands Admit Possible Price Violation, Xinhua Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-04T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/baby-formula-brands-admit-possible-price-violation-xinhua-says.html
Infant-formula companies being probed
in China have broadly admitted that their resale prices may have
violated rules, the official Xinhua News Agency reported, citing
an official in the National Development Reform Commission.  The official, Xu Kunlin, head of the regulatory body’s
pricing supervision department, didn’t name the dairy companies
who admitted to price violations, according to the news report.  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) , Danone,  Nestle SA (NESN) ,  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT) , Royal FrieslandCampina NV and domestic
manufacturer  Biostime International Holdings Ltd (1112)  were being
probed on pricing, the official People’s Daily reported on July
2. The investigation offered a window into how government
scrutiny in China can create obstacles for overseas companies
expanding there.  FrieslandCampina spokeswoman Ria van der Peet declined to
comment as investigations are still ongoing. Nestle, Mead,
Danone, Abbott, and Biostime couldn’t be reached outside of
regular business hours.  The overseas manufacturers set a minimum price on their
goods in China, leading to high prices, Xinhua reported on July
31, citing Xu Kunlin.  The NDRC, China’s top economic planning agency, said in the
People’s Daily report that it had evidence to show their pricing
increased about 30 percent since 2008, the same year milk powder
contaminated with the chemical melamine killed six infants.  Companies Co-operating  The companies have said they are co-operating with the NDRC
and all have cut prices since. Danone and Nestle reduced some
prices by as much as 20 percent within days of the investigation
announcement. Mead Johnson announced its own cuts on main
products in the country by up to 15 percent on July 10.  Mead Johnson is the largest baby formula company in  China 
with a 14 percent market share last year, according to industry
researcher Euromonitor International. Hangzhou Beingmate Group
Co. ranked second with a 10 percent share, followed by Danone’s
9.2 percent.  The listed company of Beingmate, which hasn’t been named in
the probe, also cut prices by up to 20 percent to increase its
competitiveness and market share, it said. Fonterra Cooperative
Group Ltd., the world’s biggest dairy exporter which has been
contacted by the NDRC for a reason it didn’t specify, has also
reduced prices in China for Anmum supplements for pregnant
women.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  