-- Bank of Israel ‘Functioning Normally,’ Policy Maker Gronau Says
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-08-04T13:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/bank-of-israel-functioning-normally-policy-maker-gronau-says.html
The Bank of  Israel  is “functioning
normally” even after the government failed twice to name a
successor to Stanley Fischer, monetary policy committee member
Reuben Gronau said today.  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu should “act as quickly
as possible” to name the new governor to eliminate questions
about future policy, Gronau said. At the same time, the
government should check candidates “very well” to avoid more
embarrassment, he said. The bank in the meantime is being run by
acting Governor Karnit Flug, Fischer’s handpicked deputy.  “As far as we are concerned the bank is running
smoothly,” Gronau said. “Karnit stepped into the shoes of
Stanley Fischer quite naturally. She knows how to run the
bank.”  Two candidates removed themselves from consideration last
week, after Netanyahu nominated them, leaving him scrambling to
find a central banker six months after Fischer, 69, said he
would step down early. Flug, who announced last week she would
leave the bank after being passed over twice for the job, has
said she would stay on until a new governor is installed.  Local debt buying wasn’t affected today by the abrupt
withdrawal of Leo Leiderman on Aug. 2, just two days after he
was nominated and four days after the initial nominee, former
Governor Jacob Frenkel, said he no longer wanted the job.  Tracking Treasuries  “The debt market is today tracking the big drop in
Treasury yields over the weekend,” said Yshai Shilo, a fixed-income broker at Tel Aviv-based I.B.I.-Israel Brokerage &
Investments. “For the moment there is no panic in the market as
Flug is left in charge.”  The yield on Israel’s benchmark 4.25 percent bonds maturing
in March 2023 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
matching the decline on July 28, to 3.77 percent at 11:55 a.m.
in Tel Aviv. U.S. Treasury 10-year note yields slumped 11 basis
points on Aug. 2 after employers added fewer workers than
forecast in July.  Gronau said the vacuum at the top of the central bank did
not influence the six-member committee’s decision to leave the
interest rate unchanged at the end of July at 1.25 percent.  “Nobody waited for a new leader to make his decision,”
Gronau said. “We felt that not changing the interest rate was
the right thing to do for the month of August, and that’s how we
voted.”  The Bank of Israel has gradually lowered the benchmark rate
from 3.25 percent in 2011 in a bid to moderate shekel gains and
spur growth in the slowing, export-driven economy. The bank in
May also announced a plan to purchase $2.1 billion of U.S.
dollars by the end of the year to offset first-time natural gas
production, which has cut foreign exchange outlays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  