-- Blackout Remedy Plan to Get $1.6 Billion Boost: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2013-08-05T11:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/blackout-remedy-plan-to-get-1-6-billion-boost-corporate-india.html
Power Grid Corp. of  India  Ltd.,
blamed for a network collapse that left more than half the
nation’s population without electricity a year ago, will boost a
$16.5 billion investment plan by 10 percent as it seeks to
prevent a recurrence.  A further 100 billion rupees ($1.6 billion) will be spent
in the five years to March 2017 to complete projects, Chairman
R.N. Nayak said in an interview. The company, based in Gurgaon
near  New Delhi , plans to offer new shares to finance the
additional investment after it sold 39.7 billion rupees of bonds
last month.  Power Grid is doubling its transmission capacity and
investing in systems to avoid the kind of outage that shuttered
factories, halted transport and left about 620 million people in
the dark on July 30 and July 31 last year. The company has
increased penalties to discourage provinces from drawing power
in excess of their allocations, a breach that had caused the
northern grid to break down.  “We’ve have come a long way since last year’s blackouts,”
said Debasish Mishra, a partner and head of the energy practice
at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India Pvt. in Mumbai. “Grid
discipline has improved considerably and chances of a second
such blackout are really thin.”  Power Grid  shares reversed the biggest decline in almost
five years on Aug. 2, following an announcement to sell 694
million new shares, or 15 percent of the existing stock. The
shares rose 2.1 percent to 93.30 rupees at the close in Mumbai.  Surprise Sale  Analysts, who had expected Power Grid to use its 28.7
billion rupees of  cash and equivalents  to meet its funding
requirement, were surprised by the share-sale statement. Since
January, the company had said it was ready to change its 70:30
debt-equity mix to 75:25 and a share sale was not on cards in
the year ending March 31, said Anubhav Gupta, an analyst at Kim
Eng Securities Pvt. in Mumbai.  “Although there had always been an overhang of a possible
equity dilution, we didn’t expect it to happen this year,”
Gupta said. “They don’t have a cash crunch.”  Of the 43 analysts covering the company, 39 recommend
investors  buy the stock , while two suggest selling.  While stringent restrictions have succeeded in avoiding a
large-scale grid failure, outages continue to plague large
swathes of the country.  “That’s not going to change in a hurry,” Mishra said.
“States that now risk heavier penalties for overdrawing power,
are simply not buying enough.”  Lost in Transmission  More than a quarter of the electricity generated in the
country is lost in transmission because of theft and dissipation
through wires. Distribution utilities, unable to retrieve their
costs from government-regulated tariffs, accumulate debt and
losses and cut purchases.  India plans to spend 13.73 trillion rupees to expand and
upgrade its power systems in the five years to March 2017, much
of the investment coming from generators including state-owned
 NTPC Ltd. (NTPC) ,  Tata Power Ltd. (TPWR)  and  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  The nation,
which has a capacity to generate almost 226 gigawatts, plans to
add 118 gigawatts of capacity during the period, including 30
gigawatts of renewable energy, according to the Planning
Commission.  Higher Profit  Power Grid will invest 22.2 billion rupees in the year
ending March 31, compared with an earlier plan of 20 billion
rupees, Nayak said. The company has so far raised 80 billion
rupees of debt in the year started April 1, he said.  Proceeds of the share sale, estimated at 63.4 billion
rupees based on the last price, will help the company fund the
equity portion of its investment plan for the next three years,
Nayak said.  First-quarter  profit  at Power Grid, which reported earnings
on Aug. 2, rose 20 percent to 10.4 billion rupees after it
transmitted more electricity through its so-called 115,000
circuit-kilometer (71,472 circuit-mile) network. Sales rose 23
percent to 35.6 billion rupees. Power Grid plans to expand the
network to 140,000 circuit-kilometers by March 2017, Nayak said.  The company is developing 11 high capacity transmission
corridors to haul electricity from generation projects spread
across more than eight states, according to its  website . Power
Grid is also building a transmission system for Tata Power,
which has set up a 4,000 megawatt project at Mundra in the
western state of Gujarat, and Reliance Power, which is building
a similar sized plant at Sasan in the central province of  Madhya
Pradesh .  “Power Grid’s project executions are timely and growth is
stable,” Gupta of Kim Eng Securities said. “A change in the
negative sentiments about the power sector can trigger an
upgrade for the stock.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  