-- Buffett-Backed BYD Seeks to Boost U.S. Electric-Bus Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-05T09:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/buffett-backed-byd-seeks-u-s-electric-bus-sales-as-shares-surge.html
BYD Co. (1211) , the Warren Buffett-backed
Chinese auto-and-battery maker, is seeking to increase overseas
sales of its electric bus as billionaire founder  Wang Chuanfu 
predicts a “second takeoff” for the company this year.  Shenzhen-based BYD has signed contracts this year to supply
a total of 35 K9 electric buses to  Long Beach  and  Los Angeles 
for use in public transportation. It also won an order in the
Netherlands, and began trials in Poland and  Canada .  “The K9 is doing well and has good prospects in overseas
markets,” Wang, who has an estimated net worth of $2.2 billion
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , said in e-mailed
comments. “In the future, BYD will closely monitor overseas
markets, seek partnership opportunities, and progressively
introduce new-energy vehicles to related countries.”  BYD is stepping up its push into overseas markets as Wang
completes a three-year restructuring of the company. In that
time, profit tumbled 97 percent because of losses at its
photovoltaic business, a decline in global battery demand and a
slump in vehicle deliveries.  The company’s shares have more than doubled in the past
year, as Wang cut the number of dealerships and state incentives
helped narrow solar losses. “Electric buses have high margins
and selling them overseas will help build and shape BYD’s
brand,” said Ricon Xia, a senior analyst with Mitsubishi UFJ
Asset Management Ltd. in  Hong Kong . Xia doesn’t have a rating on
the stock.  U.S. Sales  BYD said in May that it will build two factories in
Lancaster,  California  to assemble the K9 vehicles and produce
the batteries that power them. The U.S. sales will mark BYD’s
entry into the world’s largest economy, after missing its
initial target to start retail sales of its e6 electric
hatchbacks in the country by the end of 2011.  In  China , BYD’s electric bus is in operation in cities
including Shenzhen, Changsha, Xi’an, Tianjin, while 800 of its
e6 all-electric cars are used as taxis in its home city.  BYD’s shares fell 1.3 percent to HK$30.35 today. The stock
has surged 117 percent in the past year in Hong Kong,
outperforming the 11 percent gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index . The stock is still more than 60 percent below its October
2009 peak.  MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., a unit of Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway, took a 9.9 percent stake in BYD in 2009,
paying HK$8 apiece for 225 million new shares.  Profit Rebound  Most researchers covering the company remain skeptical.
Just under 62 percent of the analysts who cover BYD have  sell
ratings  on the shares, and the consensus of 13 analysts’ 12-month price targets is HK$19.42 according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, 36 percent below today’s closing Hong Kong price.  “They are still exploring the appetite for electric
buses,” said  Harry Chen , a Shenzhen-based analyst with Guotai
Junan Securities Co. “Unlike the domestic market, which can be
easily influenced by government policies, the attraction of
BYD’s electric buses still need to be tested.” Chen has a
neutral rating on BYD.  The company in April forecast a 31-fold surge in first-half
 profit  to as much as 500 million  yuan  ($82 million) on rising
auto sales, strong orders for its handset and assembly business
and rising prices for photovoltaic products.  That marks a comeback from 2012, when profit tumbled after
a collapse in photovoltaic prices and anti-dumping probes into
Chinese solar-panel exports. At the same time, revenue from
supplying mobile-phone batteries and components to customers
including Apple Inc.,  Nokia OYJ (NOK1V)  and Huawei Technology Co. fell
12 percent because of market competition and rising costs.  Auto Sales  BYD’s  auto sales  have been pressured as China removed
incentives in 2011 that spurred buying for cars with engines
smaller than 1.6 liters, such as the company’s F3 compact car.
The automaker also added too many dealerships, resulting in
losses and steep discounting. BYD has since cut its number of
sales outlets by a third to 800 and increased its focus on
research and development to improve its products, Wang said.  “Excessive growth made us neglect the existence of some
problems,” Wang said. “We began to adjust our channels,
enhance our branding construction, and improve quality at the
same time.”  BYD’s funds are in “good condition” and the company has
“sufficient capacity to meet the daily liquidity, investment
demand and debt repayment,” Wang said. The company has “a
variety of different ways of financing to meet business needs,”
he said in the e-mail, without being more specific.  Wang said BYD will remain in the solar-panel, battery and
auto businesses as part of the company’s vision to create a
“zero-carbon and zero-emission eco-environmental system.”  “BYD’s new energy strategy is to use solar panels to
transfer energy to battery energy-storage stations that can then
be used to charge electric vehicles,” Wang said. “The three
businesses are interconnected and produce economies of sale that
create a market barrier to competitors.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  