-- China Services to Manufacturing Suggest Slowdown Easing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-05T06:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/china-services-to-manufacturing-indicate-slowdown-is-stabilizing.html
China’s economy  is showing signs of
stabilizing after slowing for two straight quarters, with
official manufacturing and services indexes rising and gains in
gauges of business expectations.  The  non-manufacturing   Purchasing Managers ’ Index rose to
54.1 in July from 53.9, the first acceleration since March,
government data showed Aug. 3, following last week’s unexpected
gain in a manufacturing PMI. Readings above 50 indicate
expansion. A services index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics was unchanged at 51.3, a separate report showed today.  The reports may bolster confidence that Premier  Li Keqiang ’s policies are helping prevent a deeper slowdown in
 growth , allowing him to pursue reforms that will secure more
sustainable longer-term expansion. The country’s economic-planning agency said yesterday the construction of
transportation-related infrastructure projects will be
accelerated, adding to efforts to boost domestic demand that
have included tax-system changes and help for small companies.  “The PMI is supposed to be a leading indicator so we are
witnessing a stabilization and a sign the economy isn’t slowing
down at a faster rate,” said  Steve Wang , Hong Kong-based chief
 China  economist with Reorient Financial Markets Ltd. “A lot of
economy-boosting measures have been put in place since the
beginning of the year and there’s a time lag for those to kick
in, so we should see a bit of a rebound in the fourth quarter.”  Stocks Rise  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index of stocks rose 0.8
percent at 2 p.m. local time. The central bank said in an Aug. 2
report that it has rolled over some maturing three-year bills
and will keep doing so in the future to lock up long-term
liquidity.  China’s  economy  grew 7.5 percent from a year earlier in the
April-June period, slowing for a second straight quarter and
extending the longest streak of sub-8 percent expansion in at
least two decades. Wang says he sees second-half growth of 7.6
percent, the same as the pace in the first six months.  The government set a 2013 expansion target of 7.5 percent
after  gross domestic product  rose 7.8 percent last year, the
least since 1999. The country’s potential growth rate has fallen
to a range of 7 percent to 8 percent, the State Council
Information Office said last week, pledging not to allow
economic growth to decelerate outside a “reasonable zone.”  The State Council, led by Li, has indicated it will refrain
from implementing a stimulus package of the scale unleashed
during the 2008 global crisis. Instead, it has issued targeted
policies including tax breaks, support for infrastructure
investment and for small companies while curbing industrial
overcapacity and reining in financial risks to aid economic
restructuring.  New Airport  The National Development and Reform Commission said
yesterday that 10 transportation-related projects should begin
in the second half of the year and work on a new airport for
Beijing may start early, helping to boost growth in demand from
the transport industry. The commission has already approved
eight local rail projects including two new lines in Shenyang
and one in Wuhan, it said in a statement on accelerating
construction of infrastructure projects.  Beijing won approval for a new airport in the south of the
city in January and construction was scheduled to start in 2014,
the Beijing News reported on Jan. 13, citing Zhu Wenxin, a
project official. Investment is expected to exceed 70 billion
 yuan  ($11.4 billion), it said. Xinhua reported in April that the
airport will open in 2018.  Business Gauge  The non-manufacturing PMI was released by the  National
Bureau of Statistics  and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing. The index hasn’t dropped below 50 since a new data
series started in March 2011. A gauge of business expectations
in the survey rose to 63.9, the highest since December.  The non-manufacturing report indicates a “relatively good
start to second-half economic activities,” Cai Jin, a vice
chairman at the logistics federation, said in the Aug. 3 data
release. “The foundation and conditions to ensure stable
economic growth are there even though we continue to face
challenges.”  HSBC and Markit’s services gauge indicates “China’s
service sector has stabilized at a relatively low level of
growth,”  Qu Hongbin , HSBC chief China economist in  Hong Kong ,
said in a statement.  The official manufacturing index, published Aug. 1,
unexpectedly rose to 50.3 in July from 50.1 in June and a
measure of business expectations rose to 56.4, the highest since
April. A separate gauge released the same day by HSBC and Markit
fell to 47.7, an 11-month low and the third straight month of
below-50 readings.  Employment Gauges  While the  employment  index in the official manufacturing
PMI had a below-50 reading for a 14th month, the gauge in the
non-manufacturing report showed expansion, with a figure of 51.3,
down from June’s reading of 51.5.  “Jobs aren’t being created in manufacturing, it’s services
where all the growth is going to come from, especially sectors
like e-commerce, with companies like Alibaba,” Reorient’s Wang
said, referring to China’s biggest e-commerce company that runs
online shopping platform Taobao Marketplace.  Service industries  accounted for about 45 percent of GDP
last year, according to  statistics bureau  data, up from 41
percent in 2003. The government is seeking to increase the share
to 47 percent by 2015, according to its five-year plan. In the
U.S., services comprise about 90 percent of the economy.  --Alan Wong, Luo Jun, Nerys Avery. With assistance from Regina
Tan in Beijing and Rina Chandran in  Singapore . Editors: Nerys
Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Wong in Hong Kong at 
 awong478@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  