-- Botulism Halts Fonterra’s Milk-Powder Sales to China
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-08-04T23:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/china-halts-fonterra-milk-powder-imports-in-blow-to-new-zealand.html
New Zealand  said  China  halted imports
of milk powders from Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. after the
world’s largest dairy exporter warned of a contaminated
ingredient. The kiwi dollar fell to an almost one-month low.  “We understand that China has suspended imports of all
whey protein and milk-based powder sourced from Fonterra,
whether exported from New Zealand or  Australia ,” the Ministry
for Primary Industries said in an e-mailed statement in
Wellington yesterday. Fonterra said Aug. 3 that three batches of
a whey protein made at a New Zealand plant last year may contain
bacteria that can cause a rare illness called botulism.  The restrictions are a blow for New Zealand because China
is its biggest trading partner. Dairy products make up about a
quarter of the South Pacific nation’s total overseas sales,
which in turn account for about a third of economic output.
Fonterra collects 89 percent of the milk produced in New Zealand.  “This could be quite a big deal for New Zealand’s
prospects, certainly in the near term,” said Paul Bloxham,
chief Australia and New Zealand economist at HSBC Holdings Plc
in Sydney. “This is likely to have an influence in the short
run on the  New Zealand dollar  and on markets in New Zealand.”  Dollar Drops  The New Zealand dollar fell to as low as 76.93 U.S. cents
today, the weakest since July 8, and traded down 1.1 percent at
77.55 cents at 10:51 a.m. in Wellington.  The Fonterra Shareholders’ Fund fell as much as 8.7 percent,
the most since the securities that track Fonterra’s dividends
and earnings began trading last year, leading the  NZX50 Index (NZSE50FG) 
0.4 percent lower.  There have been no reports of any illness linked to
consumption of the affected products, Fonterra said.  It’s too soon to speculate on a possible economic impact on
New Zealand, Trade Minister Tim Groser said.  “We sell NZ$13.5 billion ($10.5 billion) of dairy products
around the world, NZ$3.2 billion of that goes to China, which is
by far our largest market,” he told  Radio New Zealand . “Is all
of this at risk? In some purely theoretical sense, yes.”  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  in China said it has quarantined some whey
protein it received from Fonterra. Chinese regulators said
companies including Hangzhou Wahaha Group and Danone’s Dumex
brand were among importers of the potentially tainted ingredient.
The products have been recalled, the regulator said. Danone and
Wahaha couldn’t be reached outside of regular office hours.  ‘Wide Ban’  Russia has also suspended imports of Fonterra products, the
country’s consumer rights watchdog said on its website. Fonterra
Director of Communications Kerry Underhill said yesterday the
company hasn’t had confirmation of that.  The whey protein batches were mixed with other ingredients
to form products from baby formula to sports drinks in markets
including China, Australia,  Thailand ,  Malaysia ,  Vietnam  and
 Saudi Arabia , the New Zealand ministry said.  The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
 describes  botulism as a serious paralytic illness.  “The entire world knows about this,” Groser told
reporters yesterday, saying New Zealand should expect “a wide
ban.”. “Different countries are taking different positions,
and it’s absolutely appropriate that they should.”  In an earlier television interview, Groser said China had
stopped all imports of New Zealand milk powders.  Coca-Cola  Coca-Cola  Greater China  said in a statement that 25
kilograms of Fonterra’s whey protein were used in the production
of isolated batches of the company’s Minute Maid Pulpy Milky
product. The company said it will recall products from these
batches in China. A further 4,775 kilograms of the whey protein
have been quarantined, it said.  External and internal experts confirmed its products are
safe due to an ultra-high temperature manufacturing process and
low acidity, which sanitizes the final product, Coca-Cola said.  In New Zealand, five batches of Nutricia Karicare follow-on
formula products for babies were identified as potentially
containing contaminated protein. Nutricia, part of the Danone
Group, recalled two infant formula products in New Zealand.  Australia’s Department of Agriculture said the potentially
contaminated ingredient was imported from New Zealand for
further processing and it’s investigating whether any
consignments have been shipped on from Australia.  “It’s not good,” said Stephen Toplis, head of research at
 Bank of New Zealand  in Wellington. “It’s reputational risk more
than anything, and that will be determined by what happens over
the coming weeks in terms of how the company responds.”  China Meetings  Fonterra said Chief Executive Officer Theo Spierings, who
is visiting China for scheduled meetings, will speak with
customers there and the company will hold a press conference in
Beijing today.  “Fonterra would be the first to say that they have been on
the back foot on this issue,” New Zealand Minister for Economic
Development Steven Joyce told reporters. “They would also tell
you that some of the information that they initially relied on
has changed.”  “Fonterra is doing everything possible to protect human
health and our focus is on public safety,” Gary Romano,
managing director of New Zealand Milk Products at Fonterra, said
at a press conference in Auckland yesterday. Any financial
impact would be something to assess later, he said.  Chemical Traces  Fonterra, which said none of its own branded consumer
products are affected by the quality issue, drew about 14
percent of its revenue from China in the six months ended Jan.
31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fonterra in January had to assure China that traces of an
agricultural chemical found in some milk posed no health risks.
In 2008, locally made melamine-contaminated milk powder caused
an industry-wide scandal in China, prompting the collapse of
Fonterra’s partner Sanlu Group.  China is stepping up scrutiny of local and international
food companies. This year it disclosed a probe into pricing of
baby formula, prompting companies from Danone to  Nestle SA (NESN)  to
cut prices. Fonterra in July said it would cut prices in China
for Anmum supplements for pregnant women.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Matthew Brockett
in Wellington at   mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  