-- China’s State Council Urges Credit Support for Shipbuilders
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-05T10:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/china-issues-plan-to-overhaul-troubled-shipbuilding-industry.html
China  issued a three-year plan to
urge financial institutions to support its troubled shipbuilding
industry, the world’s biggest, one month after the nation’s
largest private yard sought government financial support.  Ship owners placing orders for China-made vessels, engines
and some main parts should get better funding and some key
companies will be allowed to issue corporate bonds, the State
Council said in a statement released yesterday. Chinese
shipbuilders don’t have strong innovation, while overcapacity
persists, the statement dated July 31 said.  China may have a third of its more than 1,600 yards shut
down in about five years, according to Wang Jinlian, head of the
industry association. The sector is among those including iron
and steel, cement, electrolytic aluminum and flat glass that
must accelerate the phasing out of overcapacity, according to
the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology.  “It seems as if the government wants to soothe the sector
by issuing the support plan as it can’t afford to see social
unrest caused by large-scale bankruptcies or job cuts,” said
Lawrence Li, a Shanghai-based analyst at  UOB-Kay Hian Holdings
Ltd. (UOBK)  “However, the government didn’t explicitly say how it
would help the shipbuilders and what kind of yards are key.”  Control Capacity  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , the
largest shipbuilder outside state control by order book,
reported last month it had a net loss in the first half and said
it was seeking financial support from the government and
shareholders after a plunge in orders strained cash flow. The
company has also agreed to issue convertible bonds to raise a
net HK$1.38 billion ($178 million) for working capital and to
support the development of its offshore engineering business.  Shares of Rongsheng  jumped  5.2 percent to HK$1.01, the
highest level in a month, at close of trading in Hong Kong
today. The stock has dropped 19 percent this year, compared with
a 1.9 percent decline for the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  The State Council’s policy to support shipbuilding industry
will be positive for Rongsheng, Zhang Zhirong, the shipbuilder’s
co-founder and largest shareholder, said in an e-mailed
statement today. The company declined to comment whether it
received any financial support from the government, according to
a separate e-mailed statement.  The State Council plan also urged local governments to
support shipbuilders’ innovation, strictly control new capacity,
promote high-end products and stabilize the industry’s
international market share with greater funding support,
according to the statement.  Mergers and Acquisitions  Companies should be confident as “the potential in the
domestic market remains relatively large,” according to the
statement. Besides restricting new shipbuilding capacity, the
government is encouraging mergers and acquisitions and pooling
of resources in the industry, the statement said.  CSSC Jiangnan Heavy Industry Co. (600072) , a unit of China State
Shipbuilding Corp. jumped by the daily limit of 10 percent in
 Shanghai  trading today. Guangzhou Shipyard International Co.
gained 7.6 percent in the city.  Thirty-eight percent of yards in China didn’t get contracts
for new vessels last year, and 10 percent had no deliveries
scheduled beyond the end of that year, the London-based ship-broking unit of ICAP Plc said in a report sent by e-mail on Dec.
24.  The government also pledged to study securitization of
shipbuilders’ loans, according to the statement.  In the plan, the Chinese authorities said it will encourage
the development of offshore engineering equipment such as
drilling platforms and large LNG ships.  Older Ships  The global onshore and offshore plant construction market
is expected to rise to $1.26 trillion in 2017 from $989 billion
in 2012, according to South Korea’s Ministry of Knowledge. The
offshore oil and gas market may account for 26 percent of that,
the ministry said in a Jan. 7 statement.  Earlier scrapping of older ships than scheduled is another
part of the plan, according to the statement, while it urged
more military-civilian cooperation in vessel design and
development.  Local authorities and agencies should formulate supporting
policies and ensure the timely completion of targets, the
statement said, without providing any specific goals.  Profits Decline  Under the government’s current five-year economic plan that
runs through 2015, targets for the sector include upgrading
shipbuilding standards and developing higher value-added
products.  The combined profits of 80 major shipbuilders monitored by
the Chinese Association of the National Shipbuilding Industry
fell 54 percent in the first half of the year to 3.58 billion
 yuan  ($584 million), the China Daily  reported  on July 24.  About 464 shipyards in China won 18.7 million dead-weight
tons of orders worth $14.3 billion last year, the lowest since
2004, according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s biggest shipbroker.
That compares with contracts for 14.6 million tons worth $29.6
billion received by 88 yards in South Korea, the world’s second-biggest shipbuilding nation.  --Jasmine Wang and Zhang Dingmin, with assistance from Alexandra
Ho in Shanghai and Regina Tan in Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery,
Dick Schumacher  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:z
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  