-- Dollar Falls Second Day Against Yen on Fed Outlook; Kiwi Slides
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-08-05T21:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/dollar-index-remains-lower-on-chinese-services-data-kiwi-drops.html
The dollar fell for a second day
against the yen as investors weighed when the  Federal Reserve 
will slow the pace of bond purchases that have contributed to
weakening the greenback.  The U.S. currency dropped against the majority of its 16
most-traded peers after a government report last week showed
American employers hired fewer workers in July than economists
predicted. The yen strengthened today as Japanese stocks slid,
spurring demand for the safety of the nation’s currency. The
pound rose as U.K. services growth accelerated.  New Zealand ’s
dollar slumped after China halted imports of milk powder from
Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.  “That employment report, it wasn’t the greatest, the Fed
didn’t give any indication in terms of providing any guidance on
when tapering could occur,” Eric Viloria, senior currency
strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “We also have the  Bank of Japan  meeting
this week. We’re not expecting the BOJ to be taking any measures
any time soon, so that could also be a reason there for the
consolidation we’re seeing in these yen crosses.”  The dollar dropped 0.7 percent to 98.30 yen at 5 p.m. New
York time after sliding 0.6 percent on Aug. 2. The U.S. currency
rose 0.1 percent to $1.3258 per euro. The yen strengthened 0.8
percent to 130.33 per euro after depreciating to 132.74 on July
24, the weakest level since May 23.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major counterparts, fell 0.2 percent to 1,027.04
after sliding 0.6 percent on Aug. 2.  Pound, Kiwi  The pound strengthened for a second day against the dollar
as the U.K.  services  data added to signs Britain’s economy is
gathering momentum.  The currency advanced 0.4 percent to $1.5356 after jumping
1.2 percent on Aug. 2, the biggest gain since June 6. Sterling
appreciated 0.6 percent to 86.34 pence per euro.  The kiwi fell for a sixth day against the U.S. currency
after Fonterra, the world’s largest dairy exporter, said on Aug.
3 that three batches of a whey protein made at a New Zealand
plant last year may contain bacteria that can cause botulism.  New Zealand’s dollar tumbled 0.2 percent to 78.24 U.S.
cents after falling to 76.84 cents on June 24, the weakest level
since June 2012.  Sweden’s krona  jumped after an index showed the services
industry unexpectedly expanded in July, signaling an
accelerating recovery in the largest Nordic economy. The krona
gained 0.5 percent against the euro to 8.7266. It climbed 0.4
percent against the dollar to 6.5821.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $19 billion, compared with $33 billion on Aug. 2,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $4.1 billion, the
largest share of trades at 21 percent. Options on the
Australian-U.S.-dollar rate totaled $3.2 billion, or 17 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 40 percent less than the
 average (NKY)  for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Aussie-U.S.-dollar options
trading was 56 percent more than average.  U.S. nonfarm payrolls rose by 162,000 in July, the smallest
gain in four months, the Labor Department said Aug. 2.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected 185,000.  On Table  The payrolls number “kept tapering on the table,” Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview. “Maybe it gave people reason to question
whether September was a little early -- is December more likely?
But I think it’s still a 2013 event as opposed to 2014.”  The dollar briefly trimmed losses after the  Institute for
Supply Management ’s U.S.  non-manufacturing index  increased to 56
July from 52.2 the prior month, a report from the Tempe,
Arizona-based group showed today. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of economists called for a gain to 53.1.
Readings higher than 50 indicate growth in the industries that
make up almost 90 percent of the economy.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 the central
bank may start dialing back its bond-buying program this year if
the economy achieves sustainable growth. It has been buying $40
billion of mortgage-backed bonds and $45 billion of Treasuries
each month to inject cash into the economy. The Fed has kept its
benchmark  lending rate  at zero to 0.25 percent since 2008 to
help cap borrowing costs.  ‘Zero Rates’  “The markets have got used to the idea that we’re not
staying at zero rates forever with quantitative easing forever,
but we’re not going to start even thinking about rate hikes on a
one-, two-year horizon unless the economy sees a faster pace of
economic growth,” Kit Juckes, a global strategist at Societe
Generale SA in  London , said in an interview on  Bloomberg Radio ’s
“Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “We’re going to get a slower
pace of bond purchases from back end of September onwards and by
this time next year they won’t be buying any bonds.”  Half of the 54 economists in a July 18-22 Bloomberg survey
expected the Fed to decide to reduce the bond purchases at its
next meeting on Sept. 17-18.  Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda will hold a press
conference on Aug. 8 after the BOJ’s two-day policy meeting.  The yen rose against all except one of its 16 major peers
as the Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid 1.4 percent.  The yen tends to strengthen during periods of financial
turmoil because Japan’s current-account surplus makes the
country less reliant on foreign capital.  The dollar has gained 5 percent in the past six months, the
best performer among the 10 developed-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 2.7
percent, while the yen weakened 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  