-- Egypt Interim Rulers to Allow Time for Talks to Avoid Violence
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-08-04T12:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/egypt-interim-rulers-to-allow-time-for-talks-to-avoid-violence.html
Egypt ’s interim rulers said they will
allow limited time for mediation efforts to deal with two sit-ins where supporters of ousted President Mohamed Mursi have been
holed up, in a bid to avoid bloodshed.  Mediation efforts must be within “a specific, limited time
frame,” the National Defense Council, headed by Interim
President Adly Mansour, said in a statement today. Prime
Minister Hazem El Beblawi told representatives of political
parties that the government is “doing everything it can to
avoid using force in order to preserve lives,” according to a
cabinet statement.  The remarks may ease concerns that police would use force
immediately to disperse the sit-ins, which have persisted  since
the military removed Mursi on July 3 following nationwide
protests against his one-year rule. The two sites serve as
staging grounds for rallies in Cairo, undermining efforts by
Mursi’s opponents to restore order, which the government says is
crucial to revive economic growth.  The Muslim Brotherhood, from which Mursi hails, accuses
security forces of deliberately killing protesters during
peaceful rallies. Authorities say the sit-ins harbor arms used
in the protests and accuse the Islamists of torturing civilians
to death at one of the sites in Cairo’s Nasr City.  ‘Peaceful Solution’  All options must be “exhausted” before using force
against Mursi’s supporters, Vice President Mohamed ElBaradei
said in interview with Al-Hayat television last night. “Even
when you use force, you should ensure that there will be the
least possible casualties,” he said.  Defense Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi met with Islamist
figures to discuss the political impasse, army spokesman Ahmed
Mohamed Ali said on his official Facebook page last night.
During the meeting, Al-Seesi stressed that “there are
opportunities for a peaceful solution to the crisis provided all
sides reject violence,” Ali said.  Egyptian stocks surged today, with the benchmark EGX 30
Index rising 2.9 percent, the most since July 9, at the close in
Cairo, as weekend rallies passed without violence and the
central bank lowered interest rates to boost economic growth.  Salafist preacher Mohamed Hassan, who was present at the
meeting, said in a sermon aired on Al-Jazeera Mubashir Misr that
al-Seesi promised not to forcibly disperse the sit-ins and to
help set the stage for national reconciliation. Ali couldn’t be
immediately reached for comment.  Mursi’s supporters have vowed to press ahead with protests
until he is released from military custody and reinstated.  International efforts to ease the crisis have accelerated
in the past week. European Union foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton, who was the first foreign envoy to meet Mursi last week
since his removal, dispatched a special envoy, Bernardino Leon,
to meet Egyptian officials. U.S. Deputy Secretary of State
William Burns held talks yesterday in Cairo with representatives
of a pro-Mursi coalition, whom he didn’t meet during a July
visit.  Burns extended his visit by a day to meet El Beblawi and
al-Seesi, Egypt’s state-run Middle East News Agency reported
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  