-- England Retains Ashes as Third Test Drawn, Now Seeks Series Win
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-08-05T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/england-strengthens-ashes-hold-as-weather-frustrates-australia.html
England  captain  Alastair Cook  is
targeting a series win after his team retained the Ashes trophy
as the third cricket Test against  Australia  was drawn on a rain-shortened final day.  Yesterday’s result at Old Trafford, Manchester, keeps
England 2-0 ahead in the five-game contest so Australia cannot
now win the series and regain the trophy. It’s the third
straight time England has secured the Ashes.  “The feeling in the dressing room now is a very pleasant
one,” Cook told  Sky Sports . “We set out to retain the Ashes
and we’ve done that. Now we want to go and win the series.”  England won the first two Tests, at Nottingham and Lord’s
in  London . The fourth game starts Aug. 9 at Chester-le-Street,
and the fifth at the Oval in London from Aug. 21.  England is seeking a third straight series win against
Australia for the first time since 1956.  England ended on 37-3 yesterday, with play washed out from
just after lunch. The host made 368 in its first innings,
Australia scoring 527-7 declared and 172-7 declared.  “It was an important toss to win but fair play to Australia.
The way they played put us under a lot of pressure, getting 500
and plenty in that first innings, but we responded pretty well
with the bat,” Cook said.  Australia captain  Michael Clarke  was named man of the
match after scoring 187 in the first innings.  “It’s always nice to make runs, don’t get me wrong, and
every hundred for Australia is something you’re very proud of
but the result makes it irrelevant,” he said. “I’d rather make
a duck and have won the Test match.”  Australia Declared  Rain also curtailed play on the fourth day, with Clarke
frustrated by the umpires’ decision to halt play over safety
concerns.  Needing a win to have any chance of regaining the Ashes,
Clarke declared on the overnight score for a lead of 331 runs.  Even though rain delayed the start of play yesterday,
Australia had England wobbling after taking three early wickets.  Cook was the first England batsman to fall, leg-before-wicket to  Ryan Harris  with no runs on the board. Harris then
dismissed Jonathan Trott with the score on 15, and  Kevin Pietersen  was given out amid controversy after making eight runs,
following his first-innings 113.  He was adjudged caught behind off  Peter Siddle , and showed
his anger when the video-review system failed to overturn the
decision. That left the score at 27-3.  Only a few minutes play was possible after lunch before the
rain came again. The game was finally abandoned at about 4:40
p.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  