-- Merkel Challenger Says Alienated Voters Are Key to Unseating Her
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-08-04T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/merkel-challenger-says-alienated-voters-key-to-unseating-her.html
German Social Democratic candidate
Peer Steinbrueck said his party could unseat Chancellor  Angela Merkel  if it motivates voters lost to the party over the past 15
years, as a  poll showed  he may be narrowing the gap.  Speaking to broadcaster ZDF in a “summer interview,”
Steinbrueck said the SPD’s get-out-the-vote operation will mine
millions of voters who once cast ballots for the party’s social
justice platform. He identified some 10 million voters that the
party lost in the decade preceding the SPD’s 2009 defeat.  “That means if we reached even half of those, the SPD
could win the election,” Steinbrueck told ZDF yesterday.  As Merkel embarks on her second week of vacation,
Steinbrueck is exploiting the German leader’s absence with a
cross-country tour and voter-mobilization effort touting a
planned nationwide  minimum wage  and higher taxes on the rich.  Seven weeks before the Sept. 22 vote, at least one poll
showed Steinbrueck’s party making an advance. A survey published
Aug. 2 by  Forschungsgruppe Wahlen  showed the SPD up one
percentage point to 27 percent, while Merkel’s Christian
Democratic-led bloc slid a notch to 40 percent. The poll
surveyed 1,340 people between July 30 and Aug. 1.  The SPD-allied Green Party also advanced a point to 14
percent, placing the opposition’s prospective coalition together
four points behind Merkel’s current government with the Free
Democratic Party, the poll showed. The FDP remained at 5
percent, the threshold required to enter parliament.  Still, an  Emnid poll  showed no movement among the parties,
with Merkel’s party retaining its 15-point lead over the  Social
Democrats .  Steinbrueck Prospects  Asked about his prospects to become  Germany ’s next leader
in the face of broad satisfaction with Merkel, Steinbrueck said
Germans “should be gradually warned that despite a good
situation presently, we have to deal with a few needs.”  He cited a failing infrastructure, a lack of transparency
in the education system, a lack of  gender equality  and a
broadening wage gap “that divides this society.”  The SPD has rested its strategy on voter reachout in the
final weeks of the election, particularly one-time SPD voters
who over the past decade have opted to stay away from the polls
rather than switch to another party.  Steinbrueck began his national tour “from Bavaria to the
coast” last week, taking to the Bavarian hills with about 150
party sherpas, SPD members and media in tow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  