-- Gold Bulls Cut Wagers on Signs U.S. Growth Quickens: Commodities
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-08-05T17:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/gold-bulls-cut-wagers-on-signs-u-s-growth-quickens-commodities.html
Hedge funds  lowered bullish gold bets
for the first time in five weeks as signs of accelerating U.S.
growth contributed to the longest retreat in prices in a month.  Money managers cut their net-long position by 6.5 percent
to 65,517  futures and options  by July 30, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. Holdings of short contracts rose
6.8 percent, the biggest increase in six weeks. Net-bullish  bets 
across 18 U.S.-traded commodities contracted 15 percent as
investors cut wagers on higher crude prices for the first time
in a month and more than doubled bearish bets on copper.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a faster pace than previously
forecast in the second quarter, the Commerce Department said
July 31. Manufacturing expanded in July at the fastest pace in
more than two years, and the  unemployment rate  dropped to the
lowest since December 2008, government reports showed last week.
Gold tumbled 22 percent this year as U.S. expansion prompted
speculation the Federal Reserve taper stimulus.  “The economy is healing, and if the economy is healing
then it doesn’t require the assistance of the Fed,” said  John Stephenson , who helps oversee about C$2.7 billion ($2.6 billion)
at First Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto. “Whether
tapering happens tomorrow or next year, it’s coming, and the
market knows it.”  Bullion Slumps  Gold futures declined 0.9 percent last week, the first drop
since the week ended July 5. Prices capped a four-day losing
streak on Aug. 2, the longest since June 27. Twelve analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg expect the metal to fall this week, nine
are bullish and four neutral, the first time the bears have
dominated in six weeks.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
lost 0.9 percent this year. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities advanced 11 percent as U.S. equities reached a record.
The Bloomberg  Dollar Index , a gauge against 10 major trading
partners, rose 4.2 percent and the Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond
Index dropped 2.6 percent.  U.S. gross domestic product climbed at a 1.7 percent
annualized rate in the three months ending June 30 after a 1.1
percent increase in the prior quarter, government data show. The
figures signaled the Fed may begin curbing its $85 billion of
monthly debt purchases in September,  Eric Green , an economist at
TD Securities Inc. said in a report July 31.  Holdings in global exchange-traded products backed by the
metal dropped 25 percent this year to the lowest since May 2010,
erasing $59.4 billion from their combined value. Bullion rose 70
percent from December 2008 to June 2011 as the Fed bought more
than $2 trillion of debt.  Billionaire Paulson  This year’s declines hurt profits at funds run by
billionaire  John Paulson  and for mining companies including
 Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  that have announced at least $21 billion in
writedowns in the past two months. U.S. expansion will
accelerate in the current quarter and at least the following
four quarters, according to the median of as many as 101
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Greenlight Capital Re Ltd., the reinsurer headed by hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn , sold “a small amount” of bullion
to buy shares of gold-mining stocks that were in “free fall,”
Einhorn said on a conference call July 30. Their view on the
metal hasn’t changed, he said. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange
Gold & Silver Index of 30  mining companies  plunged 34 percent in
the three months ended June 30, compared with a 23 percent drop
for gold futures.  Labor Market  The Fed’s Open Market Committee, which sets the course of
policy, cited the risk of low inflation in pledging to keep
buying bonds every month after a two-day meeting concluded July
31. St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said Aug. 2 that the
central bank should wait for evidence the labor market and
economy are strengthening before tapering purchases.  U.S. payrolls increased by 162,000 in July, the least in
four months, and hourly earnings fell for the first time since
October, government figures showed Aug. 2.  “The jobs report was disappointing,” said  Richard Sichel ,
who oversees about $1.9 billion as chief investment officer at
Philadelphia Trust Co. “There’s another message there to the
Fed to keep waiting. No rush to do things. No tapering in the
near future, which makes the dollar a little bit weaker and gold
a little stronger.”  Quantitative Research  Gold prices  added 7.3 percent in July, the biggest monthly
gain since January 2012. The rally was “nothing more than a
correction to an ongoing downtrend,” Societe Generale analysts
said in a note Aug. 1. They expect “large-scale” selling in
ETFs to continue through 2014.  Money managers added $51 million to commodity funds in the
week ended July 31, according to Adam Longenecker, the director
of quantitative research for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR
Global, which tracks money flows. That’s the first inflow since
Feb. 6.  Net-long positions in crude oil declined 4.6 percent to
318,819 contracts, the first drop since June 25, the CFTC data
show. West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark U.S. grade,
advanced 2.1 percent to $106.94 a barrel last week.  Investors more than doubled their net-short holdings in
copper to 26,924 contracts, compared with 12,974 last week, the
CFTC said. Supplies will top demand by 107,000 metric tons this
year, and the surplus will expand to 387,000 tons in 2014,
Barclays Plc estimates. Futures rose 2.2 percent to $3.1725 a
pound last week.  A measure of net-long  positions  across 11 agricultural
products declined 46 percent to 57,552 futures and options, the
biggest loss since April 2, government data show. The S&P GSCI
Agriculture  Index (BUSY)  of eight commodities dropped 1.1 percent last
week, extending this year’s loss to 19 percent.  Corn Bets  Investors are holding a net-short position in corn of
108,089 contracts, the most bearish since the data begin in
2006, CFTC data show. Wet weather across the Midwest may boost
yields, and the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  projects a record
harvest of 13.95 billion bushels. Prices reached the lowest
since October 2010.  “We’re not expecting tremendous increases in the overall
commodity complex,” said Rob Haworth, a senior investment
strategist in  Seattle  at U.S. Bank Wealth Management, which
oversees about $112 billion of assets. “Because of the high
prices we’ve seen over the past 10 years, we’ve gotten the
supply response that one should expect. This is going to keep a
bit of a lid on commodity prices in the near term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  