-- Governor Fiasco Hasn’t Hurt Bank of Israel, Policy Maker Says
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-08-04T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/governor-fiasco-hasn-t-hurt-bank-of-israel-policy-maker-says.html
The bungled appointment of the Bank
of Israel’s next governor has not affected the central bank’s
operations, a member of its monetary policy panel said, offering
reassurance to markets the vital institution is in good hands.  Last week, not one but two nominees fielded by Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Finance Minister Yair Lapid
withdrew after questions about alleged conduct arose. That’s
left the bank without a successor to former Governor  Stanley Fischer  six months after he gave notice and five weeks after he
stepped down. Helming it in the meantime is the hand-picked
deputy Fischer recommended to replace him, twice-spurned acting
Governor Karnit Flug.  “The Bank of Israel is functioning normally,” policy
maker Reuben Gronau said yesterday. “There are some
uncertainties involved. But all the daily work is done as it
used to be a week ago or two weeks ago before we started this
game of guessing who the governor is going to be.”  Netanyahu and Lapid waited until days before Fischer’s June
30 departure before appointing the first of their nominees,
former Governor  Jacob Frenkel . He announced last week that he no
longer wanted the job, saying he had suffered an “avalanche of
abuse” after his nomination. Candidate No. 2,  Bank Hapoalim
Ltd. (POLI)  chief economist Leo Leiderman, pulled out Aug. 2, just two
days after he was nominated. Flug, who announced  she would
leave the bank after being passed over twice for the job, has
agreed to stay on until a new governor is installed.  ‘Running Smoothly’  Flug is keeping the bank “running smoothly,” said Gronau,
a retired Hebrew University economics professor and one of three
external members of the six-person monetary policy committee.  “Karnit stepped into the shoes of Stanley Fischer quite
naturally,” he said. “She has been there in this post for 2, 2
1/2 years, so she knows how to run the bank.”  In 2010, the  Bank of Israel  law was amended to expand
responsibility for  interest rate  decisions, which until that
time had been made by the governor alone. That has made things
easier during the current turmoil, Gronau said.  “Prior to the law, it was up to the governor to set the
interest rate, so a substitute may have been uneasy in this
job,” Gronau said. “Now, it’s a role of a committee to set the
interest rate, so the fact that we are five rather than six
doesn’t change the width of opinions which are presented around
the table. The governor is one among equals.”  Debt Buying Unaffected  Local debt buying wasn’t affected yesterday by Leiderman’s
abrupt withdrawal over the weekend.  The  debt market  is “tracking the big drop in Treasury
yields over the weekend,” said Yshai Shilo, a fixed-income
broker at Tel Aviv-based I.B.I.-Israel Brokerage & Investments.
“For the moment there is no panic in the market as Flug is left
in charge.”  The yield on Israel’s benchmark 4.25 percent bonds maturing
in March 2023 fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
to 3.76 percent at the close in  Tel Aviv . U.S. Treasury 10-year
note yields lost 11 basis points on Aug. 2 after employers added
fewer workers than forecast in July.  The TA-25 benchmark stocks index closed up 0.1 percent to
1,208.94.  The cost of protecting Israeli bonds against default rose
Aug. 2 to the highest level since July 15 after Leiderman
stepped aside, with five-year credit-default swaps gaining 0.33
basis points to 109.66, according to prices compiled by CMA. The
credit risk gained 276 basis points last week, the most since
the five days ending June 21.  Knows the Job  The day-to-day operations at the bank’s divisions aren’t
affected by the vacuum at the top, Gronau said. Yet while the
government must thoroughly screen future candidates, it should
act as quickly as possible within that constraint “so that we
don’t have another embarrassment, because embarrassment hurts
the morale of people,” he said.  Lapid said in remarks broadcast on  Army Radio  yesterday
that he and Netanyahu would “conduct the process of choosing
the governor slowly, deliberately and without pressure.”  Gronau said the absence of a new governor did not affect
policy makers’ decision at the end of July to keep the 1.25
percent benchmark rate unchanged.  “Nobody waited for a new leader to make his decision,”
Gronau said. “We felt that not changing the interest rate was
the right thing to do for the month of August, and that’s how we
voted.”  In a letter to central bank staff obtained by  Bloomberg
News  yesterday, Flug said she would carry out her job “fully”
and “professionally.”  “We are all obligated to continue to do our work to ensure
the Bank of  Israel  will continue to fulfill its important tasks
properly,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  