-- Granderson Hits Home Run in Yankees’ Win as Jeter Rests Leg
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-08-04T05:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/granderson-hits-home-run-in-yankees-win-as-jeter-rests-leg.html
Curtis Granderson hit a two-run homer
in the seventh inning as the  New York  Yankees beat the San Diego
Padres 3-0 without shortstop Derek Jeter.  Alfonso Soriano singled to start the seventh and Granderson
followed with his home run at Petco Field in San Diego.
Granderson scored again on Jayson Nix’s single in the ninth
inning.  “He was part of all three runs tonight,” manager Joe Girardi said of Granderson. “I’ve talked about how Curtis can
change the complexion of the game really quickly and that’s what
he did tonight.”  The home run was Granderson’s first hit since being
activated Aug. 2. He has had two stints on the disabled list
after being hit by pitches.  Ivan Nova (5-4) allowed four hits and struck out eight in
seven innings. Mariano Rivera pitched a perfect ninth inning for
his 35th save.  Tyson Ross (2-5) gave up two runs on three hits while
striking out nine batters in six innings.  The Yankees (57-52) are in fourth place in the American
League East, 8 ½ games behind the Boston Red Sox (67-45).  Jeter was given a weekend respite while he copes with a
right-leg injury. Girardi said Jeter may return tomorrow.  “He’s been battling this leg problem. He’s also battling a
little calf problem,” Girardi told reporters. “I’m definitely
giving it two days. My hope is that we don’t have to DL him. My
goal is to get him back in there on Monday, get him in there
against the White Sox and see how he does.”  Jeter missed the first 91 games of the season with
fractures of his left ankle. In his first game back on July 11,
he strained a muscle in his right leg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  