-- Growth in Services Probably Picked Up: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-08-04T04:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/growth-in-services-probably-picked-up-u-s-economy-preview.html
Growth in U.S. service industries
probably picked up in July, indicating the biggest part of the
economy is benefiting from gains in hiring and a rebound in the
housing industry.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  non-manufacturing 
index will rise to 53.1 from June’s 52.2, the lowest level since
February 2010, according to the median forecast of 60 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before figures tomorrow. Readings above 50
signal growth in the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report. Other
data may show the  trade deficit  narrowed in June.  Gradual gains in the job market are supporting household
purchases of services as the effects of across-the-board  federal
budget  cuts and higher taxes begin to wane. A pickup in  consumer
spending , helped by rising home values and stock prices, is
needed to combat softer overseas markets and bolster economic
growth into the second half of the year.  “Conditions across the economy do seem to be improving,”
said  Russell Price , a senior economist at  Ameriprise Financial
Inc. (AMP)  in  Detroit . “Typically when we see improvements in the
manufacturing side, that tends to pull some improvement into the
services side as well.”  The ISM index, which covers almost 90 percent of the
economy, includes industries ranging from utilities and
retailing to health care, housing and communications. It follows
the group’s report on manufacturing, which last week showed the
fastest pace of factory expansion in more than two years.  July Payrolls  Hiring increased at a slower clip in July, suggesting some
employers are confident they can meet demand with current
staffing levels. Payrolls grew by 162,000, the smallest increase
in four months, following a revised 188,000 advance in June that
was less than initially estimated, Labor Department data showed.  Retailers added almost 47,000 workers in July, the most in
eight months. Employment in education and health services posted
its weakest gain in a year.  AT&T Inc. (T)  is looking to fill more than 200 retail openings
in  South Florida  before the end of October, with more than half
of the being newly created positions, the largest U.S. phone
company said in a July 22 statement. The company’s second-quarter sales topped average estimates as it added 551,000
contract customers, compared with 320,000 a year ago.  While both household purchases and incomes in the U.S.
increased in June, bigger spending gains are needed to help
boost growth in the world’s biggest economy. Purchases rose 0.5
percent, in line with forecasts, while incomes advanced 0.3
percent, a Commerce Department report showed last week.  ‘Gaining Momentum’  “Consumers are still cautious, as they probably
appropriately should be, but they are slowly gaining momentum,”
Ameriprise’s Price said.  The waning effects of government spending cuts and higher
taxes are helping the economy accelerate, with growth increasing
more than projected in the second quarter. Gross domestic
product rose at a 1.7 percent annualized rate after a 1.1
percent gain in the prior quarter that was smaller than
previously estimated, according to Commerce Department data
released last week.  Improving earnings and economic growth have helped propel
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index up 19.9 percent so far this
year. The  S&P 500  climbed above the 1,700 level last week for
the first time as central banks vowed to maintain stimulus
efforts and data on global manufacturing beat forecasts.  Last week’s GDP report also showed the  trade deficit 
widened last quarter as imports climbed faster than exports,
subtracting 0.8 percentage point from growth. The shortfall may
have narrowed in June as the value of imports cools from its
second-highest level on record.  Trade Gap  The  trade gap  probably shrank to $43 billion in June from
$45 billion the prior month that was the largest since November,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed before
the Commerce Department’s report on Aug. 6.  Exports may also recover after stagnating this year,
helping sustain gains in manufacturing production and orders.
The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index jumped to
55.4 in July, exceeding the highest projection in a Bloomberg
survey of economists, from 50.9 in the prior month, a report
showed last week.  “What you have to hang your hat on is continued job
growth, a continued housing recovery, and a rebound in
manufacturing,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist
at Jefferies LLC in  New York . “That’s what’s going to continue
to keep the economy moving, and probably moving faster.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  