-- Lichtenstein’s New York Girls Join Paris Recluse: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-08-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/lichtenstein-s-new-york-girls-join-paris-recluse-review.html
Will  France ’s obsession with
“l’exception culturelle” derail the forthcoming negotiations
about a free-trade agreement between the U.S. and the European
Union?  Although the two exhibitions at the Pompidou Center in
Paris don’t directly address that question, they give a pretty
good idea of how much the U.S. and the French approaches to art
can differ.  It’s like Hollywood versus cinema d’auteur.  The two shows feature artists Roy Lichtenstein and Simon
Hantai. The Lichtenstein exhibition is the last leg of a world
tour that started in May 2012 at  Chicago ’s Art Institute and
also included stops in Washington and  London .  Those who have seen the show in Chicago will be surprised
to learn that, in crossing the Atlantic, it has shrunk by almost
a third, from 170 works to 120.  Have the French curators gotten cold feet at the prospect
of trotting out the old warhorse again?  Lichtenstein’s (1923-97) fame rests on his blown-up comic-strip images complete with the Ben-Day dots typical of cheap
printing paper. The witty and technically brilliant satires on
romance comics are by far his best work.  Later, he directed his considerable talent for parody
toward Monet, Picasso, Matisse and others whose canvases he
adapted to his own Pop style.  Pop Art  The Abstract Expressionists, to which he belonged before
switching to Pop art in the early 1960s, also got their
comeuppance: With grotesquely blown-up brush strokes, he
mimicked their mannerisms and calculated spontaneity.  It’s all very clever and funny, yet the surprise quickly
wears off. A feeling of deja vu sets in.  When Lichtenstein forgets about pastiche and tries to be
original, as he does in his mirror paintings of the late 1960s
and early 1970s, the result is bland.  Simon Hantai (1922-2008), though Lichtenstein’s
contemporary, lived in a very different world.  The Hungarian-born painter, who moved to Paris in 1948,
also fell briefly under the spell of Abstract Expressionism.
Before that, his strange monsters and freakish women were feted
as masterpieces of Surrealism.  At the end of the 1950s, Hantai entered the most esoteric
period of his life.  Deconstructed Texts  The key work of those years, “Peinture: Ecriture Rose”
(Painting: Pink Writing), consists of several layers that were
then scratched off and covered with gold leaf. The first layer,
biblical, philosophical and poetic texts, disappeared beneath
religious symbols.  One of those symbols is  Martin Luther ’s legendary ink blot:
When the Devil tried to disturb his translation of the Bible,
Luther hurled an ink pot at him.  It was only in the 1960s that Hantai developed the abstract
style for which he is best known. Before painting a canvas, he
folded, crumpled or knotted it, working only on the part
accessible to his brush.  Unfolded, the canvas displayed irregular though harmonious
patterns -- not unlike those seen through a kaleidoscope.  In 1982, after representing France at the Venice Biennale,
Hantai decided to withdraw from the world of art. The show at
the Centre Pompidou, which includes some 130 paintings from all
stages of his career, is the first retrospective of his work in
nearly 40 years.  They are an odd couple, the cheerful, self-assured,  New
Yorker  and the Paris recluse. Yet both are definitely worth a
visit.  The Hantai exhibition runs through Sept. 2, the
Lichtenstein show through Nov. 4. Information:
 http://www.centrepompidou.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on U.K. theater,
 Hephzibah Anderson  on books,  Greg Evans  on U.S. TV and  John
Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 