-- Israel Yield Drops Tracking U.S. as Leiderman Pulls Governor Bid
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-08-04T13:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/israel-yield-drops-tracking-u-s-as-leiderman-pulls-governor-bid.html
Israel ’s 2023 government bonds rose
the most in two weeks after U.S. jobs data eased bets for an
early tapering of Federal Reserve stimulus and as Leonardo Leiderman withdrew his candidacy to be  Bank of Israel  governor.  The yield on Israel’s benchmark 4.25 percent bonds maturing
in March 2023 fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point
to 3.76 percent at the close in  Tel Aviv . U.S. Treasury 10-year
note yields slumped 11 basis points on Aug. 2 after employers
added fewer workers than forecast in July as the world’s largest
economy struggles to gain momentum. Israel relies on exports to
markets, including the U.S., for 40 percent of gross
domestic product.  Local debt buying hasn’t been affected today by the
withdrawal of Leiderman as the nominee to be Bank of Israel
governor, the second candidate to drop out in a week, said Yshai Shilo, a fixed-income broker at Tel Aviv-based I.B.I.-Israel
Brokerage & Investments. Karnit Flug will act as interim
governor until a replacement is named.  “The  debt market  is today tracking the big drop in
Treasury yields over the weekend,” said Shilo. “For the moment
there is no panic in the market as Flug is left in charge.”  Leiderman, 62, chief economist at Tel Aviv-based Bank
Hapoalim Ltd., was last week picked to succeed  Stanley Fischer ,
who stepped down June 30. The nomination came after first-choice
 Jacob Frenkel  withdrew his candidacy.  Avoid Embarrassment  “We are all obligated to continue to do our work to ensure
the Bank of Israel will continue to fulfill its important tasks
properly,” Flug said in a letter to central bank staff.  The government should check candidates “very well” to
avoid more embarrassment and name a new governor as quickly as
possible, central bank monetary policy committee member Reuben
Gronau said today.  The shekel weakened to the lowest this month on Aug. 2.
Israel’s five-year credit-default swaps rose 0.33 basis points
to 109.66, the highest level since July 15, according to prices
compiled by CMA. The credit risk gained 276 basis points last
week, the biggest since the five days ending June 21.  The Bank of Israel last week kept  interest rates  at 1.25
percent. In May, the regulator lowered the benchmark rate by 0.5
percentage point in two cuts aimed at trimming the shekel’s
advance and supporting the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  