-- Treasuries, U.S. Stocks Retreat; New Zealand Kiwi Weakens
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-08-05T20:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/kiwi-sinks-on-china-ban-as-australia-stock-futures-climb.html
Treasuries fell as stronger growth in
American  service industries  dimmed prospects for Federal Reserve
bond buying, while U.S. benchmark stock indexes retreated from
records. The  New Zealand dollar  slid as a milk-powder exporter
said some shipments may be tainted.  Ten-year Treasury yields rose four basis points to 2.64
percent as of 4 p.m. in  New York . The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index slipped 0.1 percent while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
closed 0.2 percent higher after climbing as much as 0.6 percent.
The yen strengthened 0.7 percent to 98.30 per dollar while New
Zealand’s dollar weakened against 15 of its 16 main peers.
Wheat, sugar and gasoline lost more than 1.3 percent to lead the
S&P GSCI Index of commodities lower.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
index increased to 56 in July, higher than the median economist
estimate of 53.1 and the prior month’s 52.2. Euro-area services
output shrank at a slower pace than initially estimated in July,
London-based Markit Economics said today. An index of China’s
non-manufacturing sectors in July increased for the first time
since March. Stocks extended losses as Federal Reserve Bank of
Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank is closer
to slowing its bond purchases.  “The consensus still remains that tapering is on track to
be announced in September,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“That reflects the recent series of strong economic data. The
Treasury market is backing up as we get set to take down this
week’s refunding auctions.”  The U.S. is scheduled to sell $72 billion of three-, 10-and
30-year securities this week.  Yield Gaps  Thirty-year Treasury bond yields increased five basis
points to 3.73 percent and two-year rates were up less than one
basis point at 0.30 percent. Two years after S&P stripped the
U.S. of its top rating, America’s credit quality is getting a
boost from economic growth outpacing that of the 12 nations
graded AAA.  The gap between Treasury five- and 10-year note yields is
wider than that for the higher-rated sovereigns, showing fixed-income investors anticipate the U.S. will grow faster than its
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Other measures
also show the U.S. improving, as the cost to insure against
default is the lowest since 2009, the dollar has risen the most
since 2008 and stocks are trading near all-time highs.  The Fed’s Fisher, one of the most vocal critics of
quantitative easing, warned investors not to rely on the central
bank’s $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  Fed ‘Put’  “Financial markets may have become too accustomed to what
some have depicted as a Fed ‘put,’” or the idea that the
central bank will loosen credit after a market decline, Fisher
said in a speech in Portland, Oregon. “Some have come to expect
the Fed to keep the markets levitating indefinitely. This
distorts the pricing of financial assets” and can lead to
“serious misallocation of capital.”  The  S&P 500  closed at a record of 1,709.67 on Aug. 2,
pushing its  valuation  to a three-year high. The benchmark index
traded at 15.5 times estimated earnings, compared with an
average of 13.9 over the last five years, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed.  Per-share adjusted earnings have increased 2.9 percent for
the 392 companies in the S&P 500 that posted results so far in
the reporting season, with 74 percent beating the average
analyst estimate. Analysts project companies on the gauge will
increase their third-quarter earnings per share by 3.3 percent
from a year earlier, and their profit in the fourth quarter by
9.9 percent, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The S&P 500 is up 20 percent in 2013 and has rallied about
152 percent from its bear-market low in 2009.  ‘Powerful Move’  “The market has put on such a powerful move this year that
regardless of the numbers that come out we’re due for some type
of pullback, even if it’s brief in duration and mild in
severity,”  Matthew Kaufler , a portfolio manager at Federated
Investors Inc. in Rochester, New York, said by phone. His firm
oversees $363.8 billion.  Gauges of utility, energy and industrial companies lost at
least 0.3 percent to lead declines in eight of the 10 main
industry groups in the S&P 500 today, while technology and
consumer-staples companies advanced.  Intel Corp ., United
Technologies Corp. and Travelers Cos. fell at least 1 percent
for the biggest declines in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Qualcomm Inc. dropped 0.8 percent as Piper Jaffray Cos. cut
its rating on the company. Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Class B
shares climbed 0.4 percent after  Warren Buffett ’s company posted
second-quarter profit that climbed 46 percent, exceeding
analysts’ projections, helped by derivatives bets and gains at
the company’s railroad. Tyson Foods Inc. rose 4.1 percent to a
record after reporting third-quarter results that beat estimates
following record profit from its chicken unit and wider margins
in the beef business.  Forecast Raised  Barry Knapp, head of U.S. equity strategy at Barclays Plc,
raised his year-end forecast for the S&P 500 to 1,600 from
1,525. The raised projection matches the second-lowest among 17
strategists tracked by Bloomberg and implies a 6.4 percent
retreat from last week’s closing level. Knapp said he expects a
reduction in Fed asset purchases in September and the benchmark
gauge to plunge below his target before stabilizing, while
acknowledging that improving economic data required a higher
year-end forecast.  “It appears that our bull case -- faster-than-expected
improvement in  capital investment  and better-than-expected
consumer resiliency to tax hikes -- may be playing out,” he
wrote in a note to clients dated Aug. 2. “We expect a
correction below our new target, followed by stabilization and a
broad range that extends into early 2014 as fundamentals catch
up with share prices.”  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.2 percent for a sixth
straight advance, its longest rally since December. Fifteen of
the 19  industry groups  in the European index advanced, while
trading volumes were 28 percent less than the 30-day average.  European Movers  HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest bank, slid 4.4 percent
after earnings trailed projections and Chief Executive Officer
 Stuart Gulliver  said the lender’s fast-growing  emerging markets 
are slowing.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc rose 2.7 percent as the Financial
Times reported that the lender plans to pay as much as 70
percent of profit as dividends by 2015. PostNL NV, the biggest
Dutch postal operator, declined 11 percent, the most since
January, after second-quarter sales missed analysts’ estimates.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced for a third day,
climbing 0.1 percent. The Shanghai Composite jumped 1 percent. A
measure of China’s non-manufacturing sector gained to 54.1 in
July from 53.9 in June, government data showed Aug. 3. A
services index from HSBC and Markit Economics was unchanged at
51.3, a separate report showed today.  New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, fell 0.4 percent
to 78.06 U.S. cents, after touching 76.93, the lowest since July
8. China and Russia halted imports of some milk powder from New
Zealand’s Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. after the largest
dairy exporter warned of a contaminated ingredient. Fonterra
said on Aug. 3 that three batches of the product made last year
may contain the bacteria.  Australia Economy  Australia ’s 10-year bond yield declined 19 basis points, or
0.19 percentage point, to 3.61 percent. Retail sales growth
unexpectedly stalled in June, data showed before a central bank
meeting. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will probably cut the
benchmark  interest rate  to 2.5 percent tomorrow, according to
the median of 27 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Oil fell for a second day on speculation that Libyan
production will increase, losing 0.4 percent to $106.56 a barrel
in New York, and  Brent crude  slipped 25 cents to $108.70. Libya
reopened a terminal closed by protests and Iranian President
Hassan Rohani pledged in his inaugural speech to take a moderate
approach.  U.S. natural gas futures were down 0.8 percent at $3.319
per million British thermal units, the lowest since Feb. 22,
amid forecasts for below-average temperatures this month. Coal
for 2014 delivery dropped for a seventh day to an all-time low,
sliding 0.8 percent to $82.50 a metric ton, broker data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  