-- Norway Gets U.S. Help Chasing Citizens Dodging Income Law: Taxes
-- B y   A l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-08-04T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/norway-gets-u-s-help-chasing-citizens-dodging-income-law-taxes.html
Norway is catching more tax dodgers
abroad with fresh help from the U.S. legal system.  Federal courts in six states have allowed the  Internal
Revenue Service  to issue summonses to U.S. banks at the request
of the Norwegian government, and the banks may now have to give
up information on people who used some kinds of credit and debit
cards, Bloomberg BNA reported, citing the Justice Department.  The development signals increasing cooperation between
governments to stop offshore tax evasion. The cases show that
the U.S. is willing to reciprocate as officials escalate efforts
to find U.S. taxpayers hiding money overseas with the
cooperation of other governments, said Kevin Packman, an
attorney with Holland & Knight LLP in Miami.  “It’s highly noteworthy,” Packman said. U.S. tax officials
are sending the message that “it’s not a one-way street, and
we’ll help you too.”  Countries are increasingly working to stop  tax evasion 
together. At a June meeting of the Group of 8 nations, leaders
of the world’s wealthiest economies including President Obama
announced a commitment to tackle tax evasion by multinational
companies. The G-8 leaders said one goal would be to “share
information automatically to fight the scourge of tax evasion.”  The U.S. Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, known as
Fatca, may lead to dozens of agreements between countries to
exchange information on bank accounts. The law requires foreign
banks to turn over information to the IRS about their U.S.-owned
accounts or potentially face withholding taxes.  Seven Petitions  Under the aegis of Fatca, the U.S. has signed at least nine
agreements for government-to-government information exchange --
a phenomenon that is gaining momentum in the world of tax
administration. Negotiations are in the works with as many as 80
other nations.  Another source of information is a U.S. program where
taxpayers volunteer information about offshore accounts in
exchange for a set penalty and the chance to avoid criminal
prosecution. That has yielded data not just on individuals, but
on the banks and promoters who help in the avoidance.  The  Justice Department  said July 29 that courts in
 Minnesota ,  Texas ,  Pennsylvania ,  Oklahoma ,  Virginia  and
 California  have approved seven of 10 government petitions to let
the IRS seek the information in court at the request of the
Norwegian government. Three are still pending, in California,
 Mississippi  and  New Hampshire .  A total of 18 U.S. financial institutions are identified in
the government’s filings, initiated at the request of the
Norwegian government under a treaty between Norway and the U.S.,
the Justice Department said. The filings don’t allege that the
banks have violated any U.S. laws, the department said.  Unusual Move  The development is significant because the U.S. government
went to federal court in eight states at  Norway (NOUE) ’s request,
practitioners told BNA.  In one example of financial institutions that could be
facing scrutiny, the U.S. District Court for the Western
District of Pennsylvania said on July 22 that the IRS can issue
summonses to PNC Bank N.A. and RBS Citizens N.A. In a memorandum
filed in the Pennsylvania court, the U.S. called the suit “out
of the ordinary” because it was done at Norway’s request, and
pointed out that a U.S.-Norway treaty allows it.  “It’s fairly unusual that you see this, but it’s becoming
more common as you see governments cooperate,” said John
Harrington, a partner with Dentons in  Washington .  Cross-border information exchange will become more common
under Fatca, and Norway has signed an intergovernmental
agreement under that act, Harrington said.  “These are the kinds of requests that will ultimately be
supplanted by automatic exchange of information,” Harrington
said.  Norway’s Evidence  Norwegian authorities described an arrangement using
payment cards that it said has already generated evidence of
extensive tax avoidance in Norway, according to a declaration
accompanying the petition from Michael Danilack, a deputy
commissioner at the IRS said.  “The  Department of Justice  and IRS are committed to working
with our treaty partners to fight tax evasion wherever it
occurs,” Kathryn Keneally, assistant attorney general for the
Justice Department’s tax division, said in the agency’s July 29
statement. “All taxpayers should know that our efforts in this
area are global, coordinated and will continue.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  