-- Norway’s $740 Billion Fund May Be Restructured, Solberg Says
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-08-05T13:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/norway-s-740-billion-oil-fund-may-be-restructured-solberg-says.html
Norway needs to review its $740
billion sovereign wealth fund to find a more competitive model
that will boost returns, according to the head of the opposition
bloc leading in polls ahead of elections next month.  The investments “might be too big to be handled by just
one fund,” Erna Solberg, leader of the  Conservative Party  and
the candidate most polls show will oust Labor leader Jens Stoltenberg to become prime minister after Sept. 9 elections,
said in an interview in Oslo. “You could split it either on
getting different handlers to compete better, or have different
objectives for your investments in different funds. We’re going
to explore it, develop and see if it’s a good idea.”  Norway’s government uses money from its sovereign wealth
fund, the world’s biggest, to pad its budget. Though use of the
fund is limited to 4 percent, the amount of money that figure
represents is growing. The oil fund has quadrupled in size since
2005 and will grow about 50 percent by 2020, the government
estimates.  “The structure has not been revised” since the fund was
created in 1996, Solberg said. “We are a party that believes in
competition. If you have different bodies running it, you will
have a little bit more competition to see who gets the best
results.”  The krone gained 0.4 percent to 7.8561 per euro as of 3:22
p.m. in Oslo.  Profit Seekers  The Government Pension Fund Global, the oil fund’s official
name, returned 5.4 percent in the first three months of the
year, the Oslo-based investor said April 26. Stocks returned 8.3
percent, while bond investments rose 1.1 percent. Real estate
investments lost 0.3 percent.  “It’s all about one thing: increasing the return on our
investments without taking more risks,” Solberg said. “We are
long-term investors with the fund, we are not short-term profit
seekers.”  Solberg, who leads a bloc that also comprises the anti-immigration Progress Party, had her best poll result last month
with 41 percent of Norwegians saying they want her to lead the
nation. Stoltenberg’s support was 29.2 percent in the same poll.  The Conservatives have pledged to lower taxes and boost
spending on roads, railways, education and research and
development. Stoltenberg has argued  Norway  needs to extend its
welfare model, which is financed by the oil fund.  Overheating Risk  Both Solberg and Stoltenberg have sought to entice voters
with campaign promises that risk stoking demand further in
Norway’s $480 billion economy. Economists, including Nordea Bank
AB’s Thina Saltvedt, caution against relying too much on the oil
fund as the economy shows signs of overheating.  Norway’s gross domestic product, excluding income from
offshore industries, will grow 3 percent in 2013, the central
bank estimates. That compares with a 0.4 percent contraction in
the euro area, the European Commission said in May.  Europe ’s biggest equity investor, which gets its investment
guidelines from the government, is mandated to hold 60 percent
in stocks, 35 percent in bonds and 5 percent in real estate,
while allowing for fluctuations. Norway’s oil fund mostly
follows global indexes, though it has some leeway to stray from
those benchmarks.  Capturing Growth  The fund, which posted its second-best year in 2012, is
shifting its strategy to capture more of global growth. It’s
moving  asset allocation  away from Europe as emerging markets in
 Asia  and  South America  gain a bigger share of output. It’s also
retooling its bond portfolio to a gross domestic product
weighting from a market weighting to avoid nations with growing
debt burdens.  Norges Bank Investment management “doesn’t comment on
changes in the funds structure,” Marthe Skaar, a communications
adviser at the fund, said in an e-mail. “These questions should
be directed to the Norwegian Ministry of Finance.”  Norway generates money for the fund from taxes on oil and
gas, ownership of petroleum fields and dividends from its 67
percent stake in  Statoil ASA (STL) , the country’s largest energy
company. Norway is western Europe largest oil and gas producer.
The fund invests abroad to avoid stoking domestic inflation.
Solberg said a Conservative government would seek to cut the
state’s Statoil holding to 51 percent.  The oil fund got its first capital infusion in 1996 and has
been taking on more risk as it expands globally. It first added
stocks in 1998,  emerging markets  in 2000 and real estate in 2011
to boost returns and safeguard wealth. It’s struggling to meet a
4 percent return target after rates plunged to record lows and
global stock markets failed to retrace a 2007 peak.  “If you split it, it might be a good principle,” Solberg
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  