-- Topix Finds Friend in Bernanke as Abenomics Rally Slows
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a ,   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o   a n d   M a s a h i r o   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-08-05T07:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/topix-finds-friend-in-bernanke-as-abe-inspired-66-rally-slows.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plans to reduce stimulus are just what Japanese
stocks need to revive the biggest rally in three decades, if
history is any guide.  The Topix index has rallied in anticipation of tighter U.S.
monetary policy each time the Fed has signaled a major change of
direction since 1986, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Japanese equity benchmark rose an average 30 percent in the
12 months before increases in the target rate for loans between
American banks in 1986, 1994, 1999 and 2004, the data show.  Bulls say the prospect of slowing U.S. bond purchases and
an expanding American economy will strengthen the dollar and
boost profits at exporters from Toyota Motor Corp. to Nintendo
Co. Bears say the yen may gain because a self-sustaining U.S.
recovery is no sure thing and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
policies won’t do enough to spur stocks higher.  “ Japan  will continue to keep monetary easing for a long
time, while the U.S. shifts toward stimulus tapering because its
economy is good,” said Isao Kubo, a Tokyo-based equity
strategist at Nissay Asset Management Corp., which oversees
about 6.1 trillion yen ($62 billion). “The yen is likely to
fall and Japanese stocks will rebound while U.S. stocks move
little. That’s my main scenario.”  Stocks rose last week, with the Topix alternating between
gains and losses that averaged more than 2.4 percent a day. The
benchmark gauge for Japan equities climbed 2.5 percent to
1,196.17 on Aug. 2, pushing the rally to 66 percent since
elections were announced that brought Abe to power, even after
shares fell for three months through July in the longest streak
since September 2011. The Topix declined 1 percent to 1,184.74
today in  Tokyo , paring its 2013 advance to 38 percent.  Stocks Soar  More than $800 billion had been added to Japanese stock
values in 2013 through Aug. 2 as the fiscal and monetary
stimulus sought by Abe sent the Topix to the biggest gain among
developed markets. The government will spend 10.3 trillion yen
to boost growth and encourage private investment, officials said
in January, before the  Bank of Japan  on April 4 pledged to
double its monetary base in two years to reach a 2 percent
inflation goal.  The Topix decreased 7.2 percent since reaching a 4 1/2-year
high in May and was down as much as 18 percent in June as the
yen, which has depreciated 15 percent against the dollar since
Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  reclaimed power in December,
rebounded. While the retreat coincided with losses in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that reached 5.8 percent between May
21 and June 24, the American gauge has recovered and closed at a
record 1,709.67 on Aug. 2.  Fed Plans  Rallies lost momentum in both countries after Bernanke said
on May 22 that the central bank was planning to start paring
stimulus. The Fed may reduce its $85 billion of monthly bond-buying from later this year and halt it around the middle of
2014, should the economy improve, Bernanke said June 19.  “The Fed’s tapering certainly works to weaken the yen, but
it also has a downside of lowering investors’ risk sentiment,”
said Tetsuo Seshimo, a Tokyo-based portfolio manager at Saison
Asset Management Co., which oversees about 74 billion yen.  Tightening by the Fed would help Japanese equities rather
than hinder them, said  Ayako Sera , a Tokyo-based market
strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd., which has about
35 trillion yen in assets.  “If the Fed correctly times when to begin tapering, the
dollar will strengthen along with the U.S. economy,”Sera, who
predicts the Topix will rise 9.7 percent by year-end, said in a
July 22 interview. “That’ll be a plus for stocks.”  Past Rallies  The Topix surged an average 30 percent in the 12 months
before each of the Fed’s four major tightening cycles since
1986, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index had a mean return of 15 percent for the periods.  The last series of U.S.  rate increases  began in 2004, when
 Alan Greenspan  and Bernanke raised the fed funds rate to 5.25
percent from 1 percent. Japanese stocks rallied 32 percent,
about twice the  S&P 500 , in the year leading up to it. The Topix
climbed 15 percent before the Fed started boosting in mid-1999.
Anticipation of the 1994 increases sent the equity market up 24
percent, and it rallied 50 percent prior to a 1986 increase.  The Topix’s 27 percent climb from November through January
was its steepest three-month advance since 1993. Shares on the
gauge traded at 15 times estimated earnings as of Aug. 2,
compared with 15.5 times for the S&P 500 and 13.8 times for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  The ruling coalition’s landslide poll win on July 21
secured control of both chambers of parliament for the first
time since 2007. Investors’ wish list for reforms include lower
corporate taxes, law changes to make it easier to fire workers,
and a higher  sales tax  to rein in the world’s heaviest sovereign
debt  burden .  Nothing Drastic  Abe is likely to disappoint, said Makoto Kikuchi, chief
executive officer at Myojo Asset Management Japan Co. in Tokyo.  “Foreign investors expect Abe to make painful regulatory
changes,” Kikuchi said. “But I don’t think he’s committed to
drastic measures. If nothing comes out by September or October,
overseas investors will question his determination.”  The prime minister instructed his government to consider
four options including freezing the planned two-step increase of
sales levies, the Nikkei newspaper reported last month.  Even if the yen does fall, Japanese stocks are likely to
slide as higher raw material and fuel costs choke  profitability 
at iron and steel, paper and chemical firms, said Kikuchi, who
forecasts the Topix will retreat 20 percent to 950 at year-end.  Rally Resuming  Most stocks strategists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the
rally to resume. The Topix will advance 7.2 percent to finish
the year at 1,270, according to the median estimate of 18
analysts. Nomura Holdings Inc. is the most bullish, predicting a
27 percent jump.  The yen will extend its 12 percent decline since Dec. 31,
sinking to 108 per dollar by the middle of 2014 from 98.43 as of
3:30 p.m. in Tokyo, according to a separate survey.  “Japanese stocks are more sensitive to the currency than
shares in the U.S.,” said Masaaki Yamaguchi, a Tokyo-based
equity market strategist at Nomura, by phone on Aug. 2. “The
Fed will start tapering when it’s certain the  U.S. economy  is
robust, and so the yen will fall, meaning Japanese stocks are
likely to outperform.”  Profits for companies in the Topix almost doubled this
earnings season, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg using
quarterly results from 1,054 firms in the 1,708-member gauge.  Toyota Forecast  Net income at Toyota, which has a market value more than
twice that of any other Japanese company after its shares gained
59 percent this year, jumped 94 percent in the three months
through June compared with the same period a year earlier. The
company raised its profit forecast for the current fiscal year
by 8 percent as the weaker yen bolsters the value of Japanese
cars sold overseas.  Nintendo, developer of the Wii console, posted profit of
8.62 billion yen last quarter, overturning a loss a year earlier
due to a 16.9 billion-yen currency gain. Nissan Motor Co., which
gets more than 80 percent of its revenue outside of its home
market, said in May that a one-yen drop against the dollar
boosts operating income by 15 billion yen.  Japan’s  gross domestic product  rose an annualized 4.1
percent in the first quarter, the Cabinet Office said June 10.
The office raised its assessment of the economy for a third
straight month on July 23. Consumer prices apart from fresh food
climbed 0.4 percent in June, the most since 2008, the statistics
bureau said on July 26.  Akio Yoshino, chief economist in Tokyo at Amundi Japan
Ltd., expects the Topix to reach 1,280 by Dec. 31.  “The beginning of the Fed’s tapering equals strong U.S.
growth, and that means Japan’s exports to the U.S. will pick
up,” said Yoshino, whose firm oversees about 3.3 trillion yen
in assets. “Japanese companies will benefit not only from a
weaker yen, but also from better business stateside. Their
earnings will be revised upward and Japanese stocks will extend
gains.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 mwatanabe47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  