-- Most Read on Bloomberg: Potash, Tourre, the Fed, Banker in Nepal
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-08-04T05:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/most-read-on-bloomberg-potash-tourre-the-fed-banker-in-nepal.html
The following list comprises the
most-read  Bloomberg News  reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. Potash Producers Plunge as Russia’s Uralkali Halts Sales
Venture  July 31 (Bloomberg) -- OAO Uralkali, the world’s largest
potash producer, upended the $20 billion-a-year commodity market
by abandoning limits on output that underpinned prices while
halting cooperation with Belarus that controlled supplies from
the former  Soviet Union .  2. Tourre’s Junior Employee Defense Seen as Leading to Trial
Loss  Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) --  Fabrice Tourre , the former Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. vice president found liable for his role in a
failed $1 billion investment, may have lost his case because
jurors rejected his defense that as a junior employee he wasn’t
primarily responsible for the transaction.  3. Fed Sees Risk of Disinflation, Keeps $85 Billion QE Pace  July 31 (Bloomberg) -- The  Federal Reserve  said
persistently low inflation could hamper the economic expansion
and pledged to keep buying $85 billion in bonds every month.  4. Banker Saves 20,000 From Nepal to Uganda With Her Deal
Profits  July 31 (Bloomberg) -- Amid the cloying dust, blaring car
horns and beggars’ wails that echo through the ancient streets
of Kathmandu, Nepal, a familiar sound emerges: the strains of
pop star Psy’s “Gangnam Style.” In front of a crowd of
giggling teenagers, a 50-year-old woman dances, blond hair
flying, arms waving.  5. SAC Seen Avoiding Worst Case in Bid for Financial Death
Penalty  Aug. 1 (Bloomberg) -- The money-laundering complaint U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara filed against  Steven Cohen ’s SAC Capital
Advisors LP raised the prospect that the hedge fund’s $14
billion in assets may be subject to forfeiture.  6. Barclays Trader Rubin Defends Title as Wall Street’s Top
Athlete  July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Mark Rubin of Barclays Plc won the
RBC Decathlon for the second straight year and said defending
his title as Wall Street’s best athlete was more challenging
than his breakthrough victory.  7. Payrolls Growth Slows Even as U.S. Jobless Rate Falls:
Economy Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Employers added fewer workers than
forecast in July even as the U.S. jobless rate fell, showing
uneven labor-market gains as the world’s largest economy
struggles to gain momentum.  8. Barclays to Raise 5.8 Billion Pounds in Rights Offering  July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, plans to raise 5.8 billion pounds ($8.9
billion) in a rights offering to bolster capital as it booked
its biggest charge to date for customer compensation.  9. Heart Surgery in India for $1,583 Costs $106,385 in U.S.:
Health  July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Devi Shetty is obsessed with making
heart surgery affordable for millions of Indians. On his office
desk are photographs of two of his heroes: Mother Teresa and
 Mahatma Gandhi .  10. SAC Probe Yields Latest Arrest Tied to Insider Trading  July 31 (Bloomberg) -- The probe of SAC Capital Advisors
LP, which has led to insider-trading charges against the hedge
fund and eight SAC employees, has snared an outside analyst who
is accused of giving illegal tips to a former SAC manager.  COLUMNS  1. What Are Chances SAC’s Cohen Read His E-Mail?: Heaton and
Polson  July 31 (Bloomberg) -- The Manhattan U.S. attorney has
filed criminal charges against SAC Capital Advisors LP, and the
Securities and Exchange Commission has brought an administrative
action against the hedge fund’s founder and chairman,  Steven A.
Cohen . Both actions are based, in part, on allegations that
Cohen read an e-mail warning him of soon-to-be announced
disappointing earnings at Dell Inc. that allowed him to sell his
position and avoid a $1.7 million loss.  2. It’s Time for Asia to Stop Being America’s Banker: William
Pesek  Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- “It’s our currency, but it’s your
problem.” This musing from Nixon-era Treasury Secretary John
Connally is about to find new relevance as the White House
battles Republicans over raising the U.S. debt limit.  3. McCain Is Maverick Again as Obama’s Republican Ally: Albert
Hunt  July 29 (Bloomberg) --  Washington  being Washington, the
hottest relationship in town doesn’t revolve around sex or even
the next presidential election: it’s the political courtship of
old antagonists,  Barack Obama  and  John McCain .  4. Google Finally Gets TV Right With Chromecast:  Rich
Jaroslovsky   Aug. 1 (Bloomberg) -- Google has a long history of
spaghetti-style product development: throw a lot of stuff
against the wall and see what sticks.  5. Obsessing Over Inequality Threatens U.S. Capitalism: Clive
Crook  July 31 (Bloomberg) -- Like any immigrant, I’m optimistic
about the U.S. The crash will recede, confidence will come back
and stronger growth will resume. The zeal of ordinary Americans
to work hard and prosper will prevail over the weary
incompetence of the political class. If I wanted to be
pessimistic, though, I know what I’d be dwelling on right now:
the new preoccupation with inequality.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Draghi Says Economy to Stabilize, Recover at Slow Pace  Aug. 1 (Bloomberg) -- European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  speaks at a news conference in  Frankfurt  about the
decision to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of
0.5 percent for a third month.  2. Banker Uses Profits to Save 20,000 From Nepal to Uganda  July 31 (Bloomberg) -- Audette Exel lives a double life. In
the world’s financial capitals, she’s the owner and head of Isis
(Asia Pacific) Pty, which advises companies on mergers and
raises money for global fund managers. In Nepal and  Uganda , Exel
is better known as founder and chief fundraiser of the Isis
Foundation, which provides health care and education for people
in two of the world’s most impoverished nations.  3. Porsche 550 Spyder Copy Channels Spirit of James Dean  Aug. 1 (Bloomberg) -- A prototype replica of a 1950’s
Porsche 550 Spyder, built by Prospect, Connecticut-based Spyder
Creations, is seen in the company’s garage and on a test run
near the factory.  4. Bus Crash Leaves at Least 38 Dead in Southern Italy  July 29 (Bloomberg) -- At least 38 people died when a bus
plowed into several cars before breaking through a guard rail
and plunging into a ravine in southern Italy, television network
SkyTG24 reported, citing the chief fire department official in
the region  5. Former NYC Bank Offices Retooled as Tech, Media Zone  July 31 (Bloomberg) -- David Cheikin, vice president of
leasing for Brookfield Office Properties Inc., talks with
Bloomberg’s David M. Levitt about the property the company is
redeveloping at 250 Vesey St. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in New York at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  