-- Republicans Split on Efforts to Defund Obama Health-Care Law
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-08-04T16:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/republicans-split-on-efforts-to-defund-obama-health-care-law.html
Shutting down the U.S. government to
starve President  Barack Obama ’s health-care system overhaul is
the wrong solution pushed only by a “few extreme people” in
Congress, lawmakers from both major parties said.  As Congress prepares to negotiate the  federal budget  for
the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1, a faction of Republican
senators -- led by Ted Cruz of  Texas , Marco Rubio of  Florida  and
Mike Lee of  Utah  -- has said it will force a government shutdown
if funding continues for the $1.3 trillion Affordable Care Act.  “I appreciate Senator Cruz’s passion, his intent to want
to defund Obamacare -- I’d love to do it, too, but shutting down
the government and playing into the hands of the president
politically is not the right thing to do,” Senator Saxby Chambliss, a Georgia Republican, said today on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” program. “Plus, it’s going to do great harm to the
American people if we pursued that course.”  About 25 million people who lack health insurance are
expected to gain coverage from the Affordable Care Act by 2016,
through provisions that include government subsidies and an
expansion of state Medicaid programs. The complexity, reach and
cost of the bill, which Republicans opposed when it passed
Congress in 2010, has spurred efforts to derail or defund the
core provisions before they take hold Jan. 1.  Senator Richard Durbin of  Illinois , the chamber’s No. 2
Democrat, said on “Meet the Press” that Cruz’s efforts have
held up otherwise bipartisan appropriations bills.  “Senator Cruz is part of the few extreme people in the
Senate when it comes to this subject, calling for shutting down
the government of the United States, even shutting down the
American economy to make his political point,” Durbin said on
the program.  Cruz, who won his first political race in 2012, said on
July 30 that “if we do not stand on principle now, it is likely
that we never will repeal Obamacare.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romaine Bostick in Washington at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net  