-- Rohani Taps U.S.-Educated Minister to End Iran Sanctions
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-08-05T20:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/rohani-taps-u-s-educated-foreign-minister-to-end-iran-sanctions.html
Hassan Rohani’s appointment of
Mohammad Javad Zarif as his foreign minister suggests the new
Iranian president would like to break the 34-year impasse
between the Islamic Republic and the U.S.  Zarif, 53, a fluent English speaker who earned his
doctorate at the University of Denver, is a former ambassador to
the  United Nations  who has been involved in several secret
negotiations between the U.S. and Iran over the past 20 years.  “He’ll be an excellent face for Iran, but his ability to
steer policy depends on what latitude the Supreme Leader gives
him,” said  Ryan Crocker , a former U.S. ambassador to
Afghanistan, who has met Zarif on several occasions. “Iran’s
condition is an excellent reason for diplomacy.”  Rohani, 64, who took his oath of office yesterday, said the
U.S. and the European Union should drop sanctions imposed to
stop the country’s nuclear enrichment program. Over the past
year, the sanctions have crippled Iran’s economy, sending
inflation above 40 percent while the rial has lost more than 50
percent of its value against the dollar.  Although Iran’s Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, 74, has the
final say on national security issues such as the nuclear
program, Rohani has some latitude to engage with the West.  “Rohani has appointed his A-team to do a deal with the
U.S.,” said Flynt Leverett, professor of International Affairs
at Penn State University and co-author of Going to Tehran. “It
shows  Iran  is serious.”  ‘Technocratic’  The new president named several former ministers in his
cabinet, which he announced at the end of his inauguration
ceremony. Apart from Zarif, Rohani named Bijan Namdar Zanganeh
to head the oil ministry and Mohammad Reza Nematzadeh as the
minister of industry, mines and trade. Rohani’s chief of staff
will be Mohammad Nahavandian, the former head of Iran’s Chamber
of Commerce, Industries and Mines, who earned a PhD in economics
from George Washington University in 1994.  “Rohani has picked technocratic, non-ideological people,”
said Alireza Nader, a senior analyst in the Arlington, Virginia,
office of the Rand Corp., a research group. “They have been in
crisis situations before.”  For Rohani, fixing the economy means reducing the impact of
the sanctions. His election has helped the rial gain more than
13 percent since the June 14 vote.  In his inaugural speech, Rohani said his government would
“take fundamental steps to elevate Iran’s position based on
national interest and the lifting of the oppressive sanctions.”  Members of parliament cheered as he said: “If you want an
adequate response, you shouldn’t speak the language of
sanctions, you should speak the language of respect.”  Sanctions  In a statement released an hour after Rohani spoke, the
White House said it would be “a willing partner” if Rohani’s
government decides “to engage substantively and seriously” in
honoring its international obligations and works toward a
peaceful solution to the nuclear issue.  A bipartisan group of 76 senators urged President  Barack Obama  in an Aug. 2 letter to “toughen sanctions and reinforce
the credibility of our option to use military force at the same
time as we fully explore a diplomatic solution to our dispute
with Iran.”  The senators expressed concern that Rohani’s pledge to seek
renewed negotiations and to ensure transparency in  Iran’s
nuclear program  might be a stalling tactic to allow the
suspected pursuit of nuclear weapons to continue.  Zarif’s appointment suggests that Rohani is serious about
reaching out to the U.S., said a senior Western diplomat who has
had repeated dealings with him. He “gets” America, said the
diplomat, who asked not to be identified because he’s not
authorized to speak directly on Iran.  ‘Grand Bargain’  “Potentially it’s a positive development,” said Brent Scowcroft, the former national security adviser to President
 George H.W. Bush , who met him on several occasions. “He seemed
genuinely interested in improving relations, which is not
easy.”  Born in 1960 in Tehran, Zarif obtained a Ph.D. in
International Law and Policy from the University of Denver and
also attended San Francisco State University as a graduate
student. He was closely linked with developing the so-called
“Grand Bargain,” a plan to resolve outstanding issues between
the U.S. and Iran in 2003, according to Trita Parsi, president
of National Iranian American Council, which opposes sanctions.  As a former ambassador to the UN, Zarif held private
meetings with a number of Washington politicians, including the
then-Senators Joseph Biden and Chuck Hagel. Biden is now the
vice president and Hagel is secretary of defense.  Hostage Negotiations  Before becoming the deputy foreign minister in 1992, Zarif,
who is associated with former President Ali Akbar Rafsanjani,
was involved in negotiations with the UN for the release of
Western hostages in Lebanon, according to the memoirs of the
former envoy Giandomenico Picco.  After the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the U.S.,
Zarif was among the Iranian diplomats urging greater engagement
with the West. He met a number of U.S. diplomats, especially
over the issue of  Afghanistan ’s future.  As a career diplomat, Zarif has gained the trust of key
Iranian decision makers, said Kamran Bokhari, vice-president for
Middle Eastern affairs at the Austin, Texas-based consulting
firm Stratfor.  “It was under Zarif’s tenure as ambassador to the UN that
the U.S. and Iran cooperated behind the scenes on the toppling
of the Saddam government,” Bokhari said. “Rohani would not
have nominated him if he thought the nomination would face
opposition from the parliament.”  Afghan Role  Zarif is credited with playing a critical role during the
2001 Bonn conference that established the new Afghan government
after the fall of the Taliban, said James Dobbins, U.S. special
envoy for Afghanistan and  Pakistan , in 2007 Congressional
 testimony .  Zarif also has a sense of humor, Dobbins said. At one point
the UN had circulated the first draft of the Bonn declaration,
which was to serve as Afghanistan’s interim constitution,
Dobbins recalled. It was the Iranian envoy, Zarif, then a deputy
foreign minister, who said that the document made no mention of
democratic elections. “Don’t you think that the new Afghan
regime should be committed to hold democratic elections?”  Dobbins had to say that the U.S. did, in fact, favor
democratic elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in  New York  at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  