-- Romania Seen Lowering Rates Second Time in New Easing Cycle
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-08-05T09:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/romania-seen-lowering-rates-for-second-month-in-new-easing-cycle.html
Romania’s central bank will probably
reduce its main  interest rate  by a quarter point for a second
straight meeting to a record low, signaling confidence that
inflation will slow to its target band by year-end.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  will cut the European
Union’s second-highest benchmark rate today to 4.75 percent from
5 percent, according to 13 of 14 economists in a  Bloomberg
survey. (ROKEPOLA)  One forecast that borrowing costs will remain unchanged.
The decision will be announced after 11 a.m. in Bucharest,
followed by a briefing with Governor Mugur Isarescu.  Romanian policy makers are returning to monetary easing
after a pause that lasted more than year as an expected slowdown
in inflation makes room for monetary stimulus to boost the
economy. The nation is seeking to build investor confidence
further after agreeing with international lenders last week on a
new 4 billion-euro ($5.3 billion) precautionary loan as
protection from turmoil on global financial markets.  “Most economic activity data warrant a continuation of the
easing cycle as domestic demand stands in a poor spot -- it has
fallen into recession territory in the first quarter,” Mihai Tantaru, a Bucharest-based economist at ING Bank  Romania  SA,
said by e-mail. “Moreover, potential external climate
turbulences should not be of paramount importance for the bank
and we think the freshly agreed standby arrangement would
probably cover for any worries stemming from that side.”  Leu Rally  The Romanian leu has strengthened 0.8 percent against to
euro this year, the third-best performance among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the Chinese  yuan 
and the Mexican peso. It appreciated 0.2 percent to 4.4148 per
euro as of 12:20 p.m. in Bucharest, heading for the biggest gain
since July 24 on a closing basis, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Romania stopped an easing cycle with a rate cut in March
2012 after a drought stoked food prices and utility bills rose
following a pledge to the  International Monetary Fund  to free
energy prices. The current outlook for consumer prices allows
for “gradual” policy easing, Isarescu told reporters after
last month’s rate announcement.  The eastern European country’s June inflation rate rose to
5.4 percent from a year earlier. The  central bank predicts  price
growth will slow to 3.2 percent by the end of 2013, falling
within its target band of 2.5 percent, plus or minus 1
percentage point.  Loan Accord  The IMF and the European Union said on July 31 that they
reached a staff-level agreement with Romania on the
precautionary facility, the country’s third loan accord in five
years. The fund predicts the economy will grow about 2 percent
this year and 2.25 percent in 2014, spurred by rising exports
and recovering domestic demand next year, according to Andrea
Schaechter, the lender’s mission chief to the country.  Gross domestic product  advanced 2.2 percent from a year
earlier in the first quarter, accelerating from a 1.1 percent
pace in the previous three months. The economy will grow 1.9
percent this year, exceeding the previous forecast of 1.6
percent because of a pickup in export demand, Budget Minister
Liviu Voinea said on July 29.  With the benign inflation outlook, “we expect the central
bank to feel comfortable in continuing with its easing cycle for
the time being,” said Abbas Ameli-Renani, a London-based
emerging-market strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
Policy makers will take advantage of “the relative
stabilization of global market conditions and the reduced
volatility in bond markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  