-- Rudd Calls Australia Election Sept. 7 as Focus on Economy
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-08-04T08:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/rudd-calls-australia-election-for-sept-7.html
Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd
called an election for Sept. 7, saying the five-week campaign
will center on management of the $1.5 trillion economy as a
China-driven resources boom wanes.  “Who do you best trust to manage a very profound economic
transition,” Rudd said today at a news conference in Canberra
after visiting Governor-General Quentin Bryce to seek approval
to hold a ballot. “Economic management will be a core
determinant of this election.”  Rudd, 55, is betting his record as leader through the
2008-2009 financial crisis, when  Australia  sustained growth
while much of the developed world slumped into recession, will
help Labor defeat Tony Abbott’s opposition. Since ousting Julia Gillard five weeks ago, he has closed the gap in opinion polls
and sought to neutralize opposition attacks with plans to scrap
the world’s highest carbon price, curb asylum seekers arriving
by sea and reform his party’s leadership rules.  “Rudd faces a litany of challenges, including holding the
ministry together and working with colleagues, looking credible,
selling the message that he’s changed his ways, and
distinguishing some policy differentials from Gillard,” said
John Wanna, a professor of public administration at the
Australian National University in Canberra.  The former diplomat, who last year said he’d learned
lessons in leadership during his first tenure as prime minister,
heads into an election with a weakening economic outlook that’s
prompted the central bank to cut interest rates to a record low.  China Boom  Australia’s growth is slowing and unemployment is rising as
a spurt in mining investment to meet demand from China wanes.
The government announced Aug. 2 that the budget deficit will
blow out to A$30.1 billion ($26.8 billion) this fiscal year.  “With the end of the China resources boom, we can no
longer afford to have all our eggs just in one basket,” said
Rudd, who defeated Gillard June 26 in a leadership ballot to
secure his second stint as prime minister. “For the future we
must broaden the economic base, diversify the economy.”  Rudd is trying to frame the election as a battle between
David Cameron-style austerity from the opposition and his own
program that allows the deficit to widen as he prioritizes jobs
and economic growth. Labor says Abbott’s Liberal-National
coalition will have to cut A$70 billion to maintain the
government’s updated budget position and fund the opposition’s
own proposals.  To raise receipts, Rudd’s government plans to increase
tobacco taxes by A$5.8 billion; save A$1.8 billion by tightening
tax breaks for business car use; target A$827 million of unpaid
tax and pension savings; and charge banks a fee for deposit
insurance.  ‘No Plan’  “It is plain that this government has no plan to manage
our economy,” Abbott, 55, told reporters in Canberra today
after Rudd set the election date. “No plan whatsoever.”  Polls indicate the switch back to Rudd has boosted Labor. A
Newspoll published July 23 showed Labor trailed the opposition
48 percent to 52 percent on a two-party preferred basis,
designed to gauge which party is most likely to form a
government, from a 14 percentage point gap when Gillard was at
the helm. The two parties are split 50-50, according to a Galaxy
poll published in the Sunday Telegraph newspaper on July 28.  Rudd leads a minority government, formed by Gillard in 2010
after the closest election in seven decades, that has relied on
independents and the Greens to pass laws. Labor holds 71 of the
150 seats in the lower house, where government is formed.
Abbott’s coalition has 72 seats, with seven held by independents
or smaller parties.  Senate Race  Half the 76 Senate seats will also be up for grabs. The
coalition has 34 upper house seats, Labor 31 and Greens or
others 11.  Rudd prevailed over Gillard, 51, in a 57-45 vote among
Labor lawmakers that underscored the split between the man who
swept the party to power in 2007 and the woman who ousted him in
2010 after his colleagues grew fed up with a leadership style
that eschewed consultation.  The fluent Chinese speaker has revamped his cabinet as
seven senior party members quit their ministry positions after
the defeat of Gillard. New Deputy Prime Minister Anthony Albanese and Treasurer Chris Bowen were rewarded for supporting
him in the leadership challenge, while some Gillard backers kept
their posts in an apparent attempt at reconciliation.  Autocratic Style  In the past, Rudd has been criticized by colleagues
including Wayne Swan -- who resigned in June as treasurer and
deputy leader -- for an autocratic style, raising questions over
whether Labor can rally behind him. Swan last year described him
as a man of “great weakness” who had demeaned his party
colleagues during his first tenure as prime minister from
2007-2010.  “You the Australian people know me pretty well, warts and
all,” Rudd said today. “ The Australian people over the years
have seen me at my highest highs and some of my lowest lows.”  Since returning to the job, Rudd has won a bid to give
Labor’s rank and file members more of a say in electing the
leadership, in an effort to reduce factionalism and the
likelihood of future party coups.  In crafting an election platform, Rudd has embraced one of
the legislative landmarks of Gillard’s tenure  -- A$9.8 billion
in extra federal funding for schools.  He’s also sought to differentiate himself from Gillard  --
pledging to accelerate a move to emissions trading by scrapping
her fixed price on carbon a year early. The carbon price, which
was to be set at A$25.40 a ton for 2014-15, will move on July 1
next year to a floating price of about A$6 if Labor wins the
poll and can get legislation passed by parliament to make the
change.  Emissions Trading  Abbott is opposed to emissions trading, saying it isn’t a
“true market.” The coalition is pledging as much as A$750
million to subsidize companies’ spending to achieve a 5 percent
cut in greenhouse gas emissions from 2000 levels by 2020.  Rudd has promised to curb the number of asylum seekers
arriving on Australia’s shores by boat, by intercepting vessels
and sending them to Papua New Guinea.  Abbott has vowed to “stop the boats” and tow them out of
Australian waters. He’s also said he would dismantle Labor’s
taxes on mining profits and find ways to open up the nation’s
remote northern regions to agriculture.  The Rhodes Scholar and former amateur boxer says Labor’s
internal infighting has made it unfit to govern.  Manufacturing Downturn  Along with claims he leads a party riven by internal
divisions after three leadership challenges in as many years,
Rudd will have to rebut opposition attacks on Labor’s economic
stewardship.  While Chinese demand for iron ore and coal has driven a
mining boom in Australia’s north and west, manufacturing areas
in the east have struggled, with the Aussie dollar in the past
three years averaging 30 U.S. cents above the level of the prior
two decades.  Much of the manufacturing downturn has hit electorates with
a track record of voting Labor. One casualty was Ford Motor Co.,
which announced on May 23 it would end production in the country
after nine decades, with the loss of 1,200 jobs.  “Elections are about judgments of our record, just as they
are about our plans for the future,” Rudd said today. “In the
years we’ve been in office we have helped keep our economy
strong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  