-- Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd Sets Election for Sept. 7
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-08-04T05:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/rudd-to-visit-governor-general-today-for-sept-7-vote-abc-says.html
Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd 
set an election for Sept. 7, saying his governing Labor party is
offering a “positive plan” for the nation’s future.  Rudd, who is scheduled to hold a 4 p.m. news conference in
Canberra, said on his Twitter Inc. feed he was making some
“final touches to my speech about the choice Australians will
make on Sept. 7.”  Rudd, 55, who met earlier with Governor-General Quentin
Bryce, is betting he can maintain a honeymoon with voters that’s
seen Labor close the gap with  Tony Abbott ’s opposition in polls.
Since ousting the nation’s first female prime minister,  Julia Gillard , in their third leadership showdown, Rudd has sought to
neutralize opposition attacks with plans to scrap the world’s
highest carbon price, curb the number of asylum seekers arriving
by sea and reform his party’s leadership rules.  The government announced two days ago that Australia’s
budget deficit will blow out to A$30.1 billion ($26.8 billion)
this fiscal year. Rudd’s  Labor party  is framing the looming
election as a battle between David Cameron-style austerity from
the opposition and its own program that allows the deficit to
widen as it prioritizes jobs and economic growth.  Surveys show the switch back to Rudd has boosted Labor. A
Newspoll published July 23 had Labor trailing the opposition 48
percent to 52 percent on a two-party preferred basis, designed
to gauge which of them is most likely to form a government,
compared with a 14 percentage point gap under Gillard. The two
parties are split 50-50, according to a Galaxy poll published in
the Sunday Telegraph newspaper on July 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  