-- Russian Railways Open to Talks on Summa’s TransContainer Stake
-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-08-04T12:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/russian-railways-open-to-talks-on-summa-s-transcontainer-stake.html
OAO Russian Railways, the state-run
rail monopoly, would consider buying Summa Group’s stake in OAO
TransContainer, said Alexander Pirkov, spokesman for Chief
Executive Officer  Vladimir Yakunin .  “So far no one has approached us with an offer to buy
Summa’s stake, but when such an offer is made, Russian Railways
will consider the terms,” Pirkov said by phone, citing comments
made earlier today by Yakunin.  Summa, controlled by billionaire Chairman Ziyavudin Magomedov, is interested in selling its stake, state-run news
service RIA Novosti reported, citing an unidentified person. The
Moscow-based company holds about 24 percent in TransContainer,
RIA said. Konstantin Panin, a vice president at Summa Group,
declined to commment when reached by Bloomberg.  The interest comes as Russian Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev ’s government is attempting to conduct state asset sales
ordered by President  Vladimir Putin  to bolster the role of the
private sector in  Russia ’s economy. Russian Railways has opposed
calls from the Economy Ministry to sell 25 percent to 50 percent
of the company as part of the plan.  Russian Railways agreed to contribute its stake of 50
percent plus two shares of TransContainer to create a joint
venture with Belarus and Kazakhstan, Yakunin told reporters June
20 in  St. Petersburg .  The company may hold an initial public offering in three to
five years, TransContainer Director General Peter Baskakov said
at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Denis Maternovsky at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  