-- S. African Arms Deal Graft Inquiry Faces Credibility Test
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-08-05T15:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/s-african-arms-deal-graft-inquiry-faces-credibility-test.html
The credibility of a South African
panel investigating allegations of corruption linked to about $5
billion worth of weapons purchased in the late 1990s is in doubt
amid delays and several resignations.  Judge Willie Seriti, chairman of the commission of inquiry,
postponed public hearings that were due to begin today in the
capital,  Pretoria , by two weeks following a request from the
Defense Ministry. The inquest has already been delayed by four
months and hampered after two of the three judges on the panel
quit.  The purchase of jets, warships, helicopters and submarines
from companies including  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  has
been dogged by graft claims since it was agreed in 1999, with
allegations of wrongdoing going all the way to former President
 Thabo Mbeki  and his successor,  Jacob Zuma . Mbeki and five of his
cabinet ministers are scheduled to testify at the hearings.  “It’s a fiasco,” anti-arms campaigner Terry Crawford-Browne said in a July 29 phone interview from  Cape Town . “There
is an agenda amongst the staff to spin this out forever so they
can continue to get more taxpayer’s money out of it. They are
deliberately floundering in as much paperwork as they can
find.”  Crawford-Browne sued the government in 2011 to revive an
investigation arguing that the state had failed to meet a
constitutional obligation to fight corruption, forcing Zuma to
agree to set up a judicial inquiry. Zuma said last week he will
consider extending the two-year mandate of the panel by another
12 months.  Ballooning Costs  Seriti said today he received a draft of an urgent
application late yesterday from two applicants, one of which was
the  Defense Ministry , to postpone the commission. Zuma will
probably respond to the application by the end of the week, he
said.  The arms deal was controversial even before the corruption
allegations were made. Opposition political parties criticized
Mbeki’s administration for spending billions of rand to buy
weapons at a time when the government was restricting its budget
and under pressure to expand healthcare and education five years
after the end of white minority rule.  The cost of the weapons contract, which the government
estimated at 47 billion rand ($4.8 billion) in 2011, may reach
as much as 70 billion rand after taking into account debt
payments and the currency’s depreciation, according to the Cape
Town-based Institute for Accountability in Southern Africa.  Judges Resign  While there have already been several official probes of
corruption in the weapons contract, only two people have been
convicted in South Africa on related charges.  In 2003, Tony Yengeni, a former lawmaker for the ruling
 African National Congress , was found guilty of defrauding
parliament by failing to disclose a discount on a luxury car
from one of the companies bidding for the arms contract. In
2005, Zuma’s then-financial adviser Schabir Shaik was convicted
of trying to solicit a bribe for the politician.  The Hawks, a police investigative unit, halted its probe in
2011, saying it was unlikely to secure further convictions.  While the success of the current inquiry can only be
assessed once it is complete, it hasn’t got off to a good start,
said Pierre de Vos, a law professor at the University of Cape
Town.  ‘Second Agenda’  Seriti is the only remaining member of the original panel.
Judge Willem van der Merwe quit shortly after his appointment
and was replaced by Judge Hendrick Musi. Judge Francis Legodi’s
resignation was announced on Aug. 1 and a substitute has yet to
be named.  Both judges cited undisclosed personal reasons for stepping
down and Zuma said last week he was confident the panel’s
integrity hadn’t been compromised.  Investigator Norman Moabi quit in January and his
resignation letter, published by Johannesburg-based Beeld
newspaper, accused the commission of a lack of transparency and
“a second agenda” that was at odds with its mandate of
uncovering the facts about the arms deal. The panel dismissed
the allegations in a Jan. 17 statement, saying its credibility
was critical if it was to fulfill its mandate properly.  Tayob Aboobaker, the commission’s evidence leader, also
threatened to quit, Johannesburg’s Sunday Times reported
yesterday, citing a copy of his resignation letter that was
subsequently retracted.  Cabinet Ministers  “They are already having an uphill battle as far as
perceptions are concerned and that is a problem,” De Vos said
in a July 31 phone interview from Cape Town. Besides the
resignations and the delays “there appears to be a reluctance
by the commission to find and subpoena some of the people who
are alleged to be deeply implicated.”  Among those due to testify at the inquiry are former
cabinet ministers -- including  Trevor Manuel , Ronnie Kasrils,
Mosiuo Lekota and Alec Erwin -- and National Treasury officials,
such as Andrew Donaldson, a deputy director general in charge of
public finance.  The  air force  has grounded 18 Augusta A109M helicopters and
26 Gripen fighter aircraft acquired as part of the deal because
it couldn’t afford to operate them, Beeld said on July 24,
citing a senior officer who wasn’t identified. Siphiwe Dlamini,
a spokesman for the South African National Defense Force,
declined to comment on the report when called by  Bloomberg News .  Bribery Investigation  BAE,  Europe ’s biggest defense company, agreed in February
2011 to pay almost $450 million in fines to resolve bribery and
fraud investigations by U.S. prosecutors and the U.K.’s Serious
Fraud Office relating to deals in six countries including  South
Africa . In June 2008, German state public prosecutors dropped a
two-year bribery investigation of ThyssenKrupp,  Germany ’s
largest steelmaker that was part of the group that supplied four
frigates to the South African navy.  The commission’s findings aren’t legally enforceable, and
the government will have to decide how to implement its
recommendations, said Bonita Meyersfeld, a law professor who
heads the University of Witwatersrand’s Centre for Applied Legal
Studies.  “There is a credibility problem,” she said in a July 31
phone interview from Johannesburg. “I’d be very surprised if
there were consequences for people who are currently in power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  