-- Sanofi Dengue Bid Seen as $2.6 Billion Hit or Major Flop
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-08-04T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/sanofi-dengue-bid-seen-as-2-6-billion-hit-or-major-flop.html
Sanofi (SAN) , whose vaccines have all but
eradicated polio, recently flew journalists from around the
globe to a sparkling new factory in France to tout its next big
project -- the world’s first vaccine for dengue.  That takes confidence, considering mid-stage studies for
the shot last year yielded results that ranged from perplexing
to disappointing. Sanofi is forging ahead. It’s readying
commercial production of a vaccine to prevent the debilitating
and sometimes fatal mosquito-borne malady that’s had outbreaks
in the U.S. and Europe and threatens half the global population.  The drug maker is making the first batches of the shot at
its new 300 million-euro ($398 million) plant, even as it waits
for results next year of make-or-break trials to determine
whether the product will be a $2.6 billion-a-year success or an
$800 million flop.  “I didn’t think I’d live long enough to see it,” said
Duane Gubler, a professor in the emerging infectious diseases
program at the Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School in  Singapore ,
and the author of the main textbook on dengue. “We’re near the
point where we’re going to be able to not prevent transmission
completely, but certainly control dengue as a major public
health problem.”  Success isn’t guaranteed. The vaccine provided good
protection against three of the four viruses that cause the
disease in a  trial  among 4,000 children in Thailand last year.
Yet it was ineffective against type 2, the dominant dengue
strain in Thailand at the time of the trial. Sanofi is now
studying the shot among more than 30,000 children and
adolescents in  Latin America  and Southeast  Asia .  ‘Still Problematic’  Those results have left some skeptical, with the scientific
community “expecting far more promising results,” said  Cam
Simmons , a professor of infectious diseases at Oxford
University. “It’s going to be difficult to change that dengue 2
result in Southeast Asia. I think it’s still going to be
problematic.”  The result prompted  Mark Clark , an analyst at Deutsche Bank
AG in  London , to cut his estimate for the vaccine’s chances of
success to 30 percent from 75 percent.  “It is a gamble,” said Vincent Meunier, an analyst at
Exane BNP Paribas in Paris. “They had to invest before knowing
what will be the final profile of the product.”  Success may earn Sanofi 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) a
year in sales, Meunier said. Failure would see the company’s
investment in the plant and trials go up in smoke. That cost is
estimated at about $800 million by Odile Rundquist, an analyst
at Helvea SA in Geneva.  Tiered Pricing  “The nature of vaccines is such that generally you have a
better feeling for the success of a vaccine than you do for a
new drug,” Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  said
on a call with reporters last week. He described the earlier
results as “very reassuring.”  Sanofi’s strategy is to sell the shot on a so-called tiered
pricing basis, charging more in wealthier countries and less in
poorer ones, Viehbacher said. “Even at an average price level
you get to some pretty significant sales,” he said.  Other dengue vaccines are being developed by Inviragen, a
Fort Collins, Colorado-based company that agreed in May to be
acquired by  Osaka , Japan-based Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., and by
 Merck & Co. (MRK)  and the U.S. National Institutes of Health.  Dengue causes flu-like illness that can develop into a rare
and potentially fatal complication involving bleeding from the
nose and gums, rapid breathing and severe abdominal pain. About
500,000 people are hospitalized each year and about 20,000 die,
according to the Geneva-based WHO.  Commercial Doses  While malaria kills many more people -- about 660,000 in
2010 -- deaths from that disease have fallen 25 percent since
2000, while dengue cases have  more than doubled  over the same
time-frame, according to the WHO.  Sanofi’s plant, at Neuville-sur-Saone, will be capable of
churning out 100 million doses a year, and the company plans to
produce the first commercial doses by the end of this year.  The company offered to fly reporters from Asia and  South
America  in business class to tour the Neuville-sur-Saone
facility last month. Journalists from  Brazil ,  Colombia , Mexico,
the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand attended the event.
 Bloomberg News  pays its own travel expenses.  No country is following the progress of Sanofi’s vaccine as
closely as Brazil, which is preparing to host soccer’s  World Cup 
next year and the  Olympic Games  in 2016. It has almost 450,000
dengue infections a year on average, more than any other
country. Indonesia, Vietnam and Mexico are the next hardest-hit
nations.  Madeira Outbreak  The disease isn’t confined to poor and developing
countries. An outbreak in  Key West ,  Florida , sickened at least
66 people in 2010. An outbreak on the Portuguese resort island
of Madeira last year sickened more than  2,200 people , including
tourists from 12 European nations. Two locally acquired cases
were reported in Nice,  France , in 2010.  “This vaccine, even though it may not have as high an
efficacy as you would like for dengue 2, it should still be a
very effective public health tool,” Gubler said. “We
desperately need all the vaccines we can get.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  