-- Singapore Bourse Embracing Derivatives Over M&A
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-08-05T06:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/singapore-bourse-grows-derivatives-as-m-a-eludes.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , Southeast
 Asia ’s biggest bourse, is relying on derivatives for growth amid
a dearth of merger and acquisition candidates in Asia.  SGX is planning energy and bond futures, Chief Executive
Officer  Magnus Bocker  said. The bourse’s revenue from
derivatives climbed 50 percent to S$234.5 million ($183.7
million) in the five years through June 2013, outpacing the 4.4
percent increase in equity trading to S$469.50 million,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Our primary focus is organic growth,” Bocker said in an
e-mailed response to queries on Aug. 2. “I cannot say that
there are clear merger and acquisition opportunities in this
region yet.”  Exchanges worldwide have been building their futures and
commodities businesses as the value of  stock trading  dropped 38
percent from June 2008, according to the World Federation of
Exchanges. SGX has been searching for other growth avenues since
its $8.8 billion bid for ASX Ltd. was rejected by Australian
regulators in April 2011. Since then about $16.3 billion in
exchange deals have been completed, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Hong Kong  Exchanges and Clearing Ltd. took over the London
Metal Exchange in December and the  Japan  Exchange Group Inc.,
formed from the merger of rivals in  Tokyo  and  Osaka , has said it
wants to start trading commodities. Regulators approved
IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s bid for NYSE Euronext in June.  Organic Growth  SGX has fallen 2.9 percent since Bocker became CEO in
December 2009. The stock hit a Bocker-tenure high of S$10.12
October 2010, the week before the company initated its failed
takeover bid for ASX. The shares slid 0.4 percent to S$7.63 as
of 2:05 p.m. in Singapore trading.  In the past three years, SGX rolled out the world’s fastest
trading engine, scrapped the midday trading break and introduced
dual listings of  American Depositary Receipts . Brokerages are
turning less bearish on the company, with the number of sell
recommendations at the lowest since October 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse analyst Arjan van Veen said he downgraded his
rating on SGX in October 2010 because the ASX acquisition looked
pricey and didn’t provide sufficient cost savings. Most of the
capabilities the Singapore bourse was looking for from the
transaction have been built organically, van Veen, who now rates
the stock an outperform, said.  The Singapore bourse, which hosts the biggest market for
Nikkei 225 Stock Average contracts outside Japan, started
trading iron-ore futures in April and is preparing to add
contracts on foreign exchange and Philippine and Thai equity
indexes later this year.  ‘Secondary Market’  To capitalize on the growing bond offerings on the
exchange, Bocker said the exchange is looking at developing
fixed-income products. Companies raised S$196 billion selling
bonds on the bourse in the year ended June, compared with S$161
billion the previous year, SGX said in a statement on July 23.  “Fixed income is a very important infrastructure play for
 Singapore  and SGX,” Bocker said. “While bonds being issued are
growing rapidly, there is no adequate secondary market. We need
to develop that before we could have a market for bond
futures.”  SGX, located in Asia’s biggest oil-trading center, also
plans to introduce trading of gas and electricity futures in a
few years, Bocker said. Unit Asian Gateway Investments Pte.
bought a 49 percent stake in  Energy Market Co. , operator of
Singapore’s spot electricity market, for S$17.6 million in
August 2012.  Gas Market  “Once we have the spot and futures market for electricity,
it’s much easier to go into gas,” Bocker said. “Gas is much
more of regional and global product than electricity. This may
take a few years to develop fully. The gas market in Singapore
has just started and  storage tanks  are just being built.”  Futures and commodities trading will become increasingly
important for SGX, making the Southeast Asian bourse look a bit
more like CME Group Inc., owner of the world’s largest
derivatives market, Credit Suisse’s van Veen said.  CME, the world’s biggest bourse by market value, traded
309.9 million equity index futures in the six months ended June,
according to  data  from the World Federation of Exchanges. That’s
almost six times more than the volume of SGX, the world’s sixth-biggest venue for such contracts, the data show. The market
value of CME, which also offers products linked to  interest
rates , commodities and energy products, is about four times that
of SGX, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  SGX posted a 43 percent jump in profit for the three-months
ended June, its best quarterly performance since the same
quarter of 2007, as stock volumes rebounded and derivatives
contracts climbed to a record.  ‘Dominant Franchise’  “Over the next five years, derivatives will likely become
the dominant franchise for SGX,” Credit Suisse’s van Veen said
in a telephone interview on July 25. “Then we can start looking
at SGX more a bit like CME. There’s a small probability for SGX
to become a regional equities exchange. Chinese companies will
normally list in Hong Kong. In derivatives it’s possible for SGX
to really become a truly regional exchange.”  Bocker said while he is “honored and flattered” to be
compared with CME, the U.S. bourse is still the industry leader.  “CME is the mother of all contracts, whether it’s in the
energy, or the financial futures market,” Bocker said. “CME is
a very successful and a long-established organization. We are
inspired by them.”  Nikkei Futures  More than 4.5 million Nikkei 225 Stock Average futures
contracts traded on SGX in June, compared with 3.6 million in
Osaka and 1.6 million in  Chicago , data from the bourse operators
compiled by Bloomberg showed. Japan Exchange Group has kept a
bigger share of the mini Nikkei 225 futures, whose contract size
is about five times smaller than those offered on SGX and CME,
based on the data.  “They are doing very well in the derivatives space but the
cash equities is struggling,” Kenneth Ng, head of research at
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. in Singapore, said in a telephone
interview July 29. “The negatives are mainly on the cash
equities side because volumes cannot pick up.” CIMB rates SGX
an underperform.  While cash-equity trading volume on the Singapore bourse
increased 29 percent to $162 billion in the six months to June,
SGX still lags behind exchanges globally coming in at number 24
in the rankings for value of stocks transacted, according to a
 WFE  report.  Japan Exchange Group has 21 times more turnover than the
Southeast Asian bourse. Hong Kong Exchanges handled four times
as much stock volumes, while ASX transactions were three times
more, according to the report.  “There’s a lot of opportunity for Singapore to gain market
share by facilitating derivatives trading,” David Kallus, co-chief investment officer at New York-based CC Global Advisers
LLC, which who trades futures in Singapore and Chicago, said on
July 24. “The banks here are well capitalized. That’s very
important for futures traders. The liquidity and volume of
activity in the  derivatives market  here is quite favorable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  