-- Sri Lanka Opens $500 Million Port Terminal Built by China
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2013-08-05T06:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/sri-lanka-to-open-500-million-container-terminal-built-by-china.html
Sri Lanka  opened a $500 million
container terminal at Colombo Port today, the biggest investment
in the island’s harbours, as the nation seeks to upgrade its
infrastructure with Chinese help.  The terminal, built and operated by  China Merchants
Holdings International Co. (144) , will handle 2.4 million containers a
year and boost Colombo’s capacity by almost half, according to
the Sri Lanka Ports Authority. President Mahinda Rajapaksa
inaugurated the facility.  The new terminal is part of Sri Lanka’s plan to add 7.2
million boxes of capacity and deeper berths at its main port to
attract larger vessels. As Rajapaksa seeks investments after the
end of a three-decade civil war, China is tightening its embrace
of the island by committing at least $3.7 billion since 2005 to
help expand ports to power generation.  “Sri Lanka has been looking toward  China  because of the
availability of funding,” said Dushni Weerakoon, deputy
director at the Institute of Policy Studies in Colombo. “With
Sri Lanka’s plans to create a hub concept, expansion of the
Colombo port makes good economic sense.”  The Export-Import Bank of China has funded investment
projects including Sri Lanka’s first four-lane expressway,
second international airport and a port in Hambantota city.
Japan and  India  are also seeking closer ties with Sri Lanka as
the island lies on the main shipping lanes connecting the Far
East, West Asia,  Africa  and  Europe .  New Terminal  The Ports Authority is also building another container
terminal with an annual capacity to handle 2.4 million boxes at
the Colombo port, which will be ready for operations early next
year, Chairman Priyath Wickrama said today.  Colombo’s three other terminals had the capacity to handle
5 million 20-foot equivalent units.  China Development Bank 
provided a $350 million loan to China Merchants in May 2012 for
the company’s terminal, in which the Hong Kong-based port
operator  holds  an 85 percent stake. State-run Sri Lanka Ports
Authority owns the balance.  Sri Lanka’s port developments have helped attract $2
billion worth related private investments, Wickrama said.  The  Asian Development Bank  will promote more public-private
infrastructure projects in Sri Lanka, said Zhao Xiaoyu, a vice-president at the Manila-based lender. The ADB earlier provided a
$300 million loan for the construction of breakwater
infrastructure for the Colombo port expansion.  Sri Lanka is seeking economic growth of 7.5 percent this
year, after its expansion cooled to 6.4 percent in 2012 as a
faltering global economy sapped demand for the nation’s tea and
textiles. The country is experiencing a resurgence in tourism
after the nation’s armed forces defeated separatist rebels in
May 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in  Colombo  at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net 
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  