-- Stacy Lewis Wins Women’s British Golf Open as Park Shoots 6-Over
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/stacy-lewis-wins-women-s-british-golf-open-as-inbee-park-flops.html
Stacy Lewis of the U.S. birdied the
final two holes to win golf’s Women’s  British Open  by two
strokes at  St. Andrews  in  Scotland , ending a run of 10 straight
major championships won by Asian-born players.  Lewis, 28, shot an even-par 72 during yesterday’s final
round to finish with a four-round total of 8-under 280 and
capture her third title of the season. South Korea’s Hee Young Park and Na Yeon Choi tied for second at 6-under par.  Lewis, who received $400,000, is the first American to win
the Women’s British Open since Sherri Steinhauer in 2006. Lewis
had been the last golfer from the U.S. to win a women’s major
title at the 2011 Kraft Nabisco Championship.  “I was just hanging in there all day,” Lewis said after
the final round. “My patience won it for me. It was just so
hard. The wind was brutal. I never thought for a second that
birdieing the last two holes was even possible.”  Inbee Park of  South Korea  failed in her quest to become the
first golfer to win four major professional championships in a
calendar year. She finished 14 shots behind Lewis after rounds
of 74 and 78 on the weekend.  “I’m just glad the tournament is over because I’ve gone
through four rounds under pressure,” Park said yesterday.
“Everybody has been watching me. It feels a bit weird because I
get to do an interview when I shot 6-over par.”  Park, 25, won her second U.S. Women’s Open title last month
after victories at the LPGA Championship in June and the Kraft
Nabisco Championship in April. She entered the Women’s British
Open as the first woman to win the first three majors in a
season since Babe Zaharias in 1950.  “It’s a bit of a relief it’s over,” Park said. “It’s
something I’ve never experienced before. It’s been a great
experience. I might not have won this week but I’ve learned a
lot.”  Park will get another chance to win a fourth major this
season, as the LPGA this year added the Evian Masters in
September as its fifth major championship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  