-- U.K. Minister Sees Fracking Sites in Southern England, Mail Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-08-04T10:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/u-k-minister-sees-fracking-sites-in-southern-england-mail-says.html
Michael Fallon , the U.K. junior
energy minister with responsibility for fracking, said southern
England contains deposits that might produce natural gas, the
Mail on Sunday reported.  “It’s from Dorset all the way along through Hampshire,
Sussex, East Sussex, West Sussex, all the way perhaps a bit into
Surrey and even into my county of Kent,” Fallon said at a
private meeting last week, according to the newspaper. The
counties referred to by the minister are mostly on England’s
southern and southeastern coast.  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, blasts a mixture of
water, sand and chemicals underground to release oil and gas
trapped in rock formations. In the U.K., fracking is associated
with northwest  England , where Cuadrilla Resources Ltd. has
exploration licenses. Cuadrilla said Aug. 2 test drilling
started at Balcombe in West Sussex after protests caused delays.  According to the Mail on Sunday, Fallon joked that drilling
in well-off counties south of  London  would disrupt the lives of
media commentators who have called for fracking to take place in
other parts of the country.  “This was a light-hearted remark that has been
misconstrued,” he said in an e-mailed statement today.
“Fracking will only be allowed in the Weald if it is safe and
poses no risk to the environment,” he said, referring to an
area in southern England extending into several of the counties
mentioned at the private meeting.  Rural Areas  Separately, the Sunday Telegraph newspaper reported that
Tim Farron, president of the Liberal Democrat party, is
“greatly worried” by the U.K.’s “dash for shale gas,” saying
rural areas may be damaged for decades. Energy Secretary  Ed Davey , also a Liberal Democrat, in December ended a ban on using
fracking to explore for gas.  The Liberal Democrats are partners with Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s Conservatives in the U.K. coalition government.  Writing in the Mail on Sunday, Francis Egan, Cuadrilla’s
chief executive officer, said he received bomb threats over his
company’s activities. Egan also wrote that no fracking would
take place for at least nine months after any oil is found while
the company seeks government consent. Cuadrilla’s chairman is
 John Browne , former CEO of BP Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  