-- U.K. Says ‘Concerned’ Over Spanish Minister’s Gibraltar Comments
-- B y   M i k e   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-08-04T15:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/u-k-says-concerned-over-spanish-minister-s-gibraltar-comments.html
The U.K. government said it is
“concerned” by remarks made by  Spain ’s foreign minister over
 Gibraltar , the disputed British territory on the southern tip of
the Iberian Peninsula.  Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo said Spain will step up
controls on Gibraltar following a dispute over fishing rights.
Spanish tax authorities will investigate 6,000 people domiciled
in Gibraltar but living in Spain and a 50 euro ($66.38) levy may
be imposed to cross the border, Garcia-Margallo told the ABC
newspaper in an interview published today.  In an e-mailed statement, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office
in London said Garcia-Margallo’s comments were being looked into
further.  “As we have said, we will not compromise on our
sovereignty over Gibraltar, nor our commitment to its people,”
the FCO said in its statement. “We continue to use all
necessary measures to safeguard British sovereignty.”  Britain last week summoned Spain’s ambassador in  London  to
protest delays to travelers crossing the border between Spain
and Gibraltar.  The Spanish envoy, Federico Trillo, was called in on Aug. 2
as Britain sought reassurances that there would be no repeat of
“wholly disproportionate” vehicle checks imposed on four days
in July by Spanish officials, the Foreign Office minister Hugo Swire said in an e-mailed statement.  In November 2012, the Spanish envoy was summoned in London
in protest at incursions by Spanish naval and customs vessels
into Gibraltar’s territorial waters.  Garcia-Margallo also told ABC that Spain will stop gaming
websites servicing Spanish gamblers from servers in Gibraltar,
will limit flights into Gibraltar and will continue operating
border inspections causing delays at the border.  Spain claims sovereignty over Gibraltar, which has been a
British overseas territory since the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713.
The U.K. government has repeatedly said it will not negotiate
over sovereignty as long as Gibraltar’s people want to remain
British.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Harrison  in London at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  