-- Valuation Spurs Gazprom Head Stake Buy: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-08-04T20:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/valuation-spurs-gazprom-head-stake-buy-russia-overnight.html
The cheapest valuation on record for
shares of OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest producer of natural
gas, is prompting Chairman  Viktor Zubkov  to buy a stake for the
first time since his appointment in 2008.  American depositary receipts of Gazprom lost 0.5 percent
last week to $7.83, sending valuations to 2.5 times reported
earnings, a 65 percent discount to the average multiple for
companies on the MSCI Emerging Market Energy Index. Gazprom
traded at 2.1 times earnings on June 21, a record low. The
Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index slid 0.4 percent last week to
90.79, while  futures  on Russia’s dollar-denominated RTS Index
were little changed at 133,500 in U.S. hours on Aug. 2.  Zubkov, a former prime minister, acquired a stake valued at
$917,000 on July 24, a month after the market capitalization of
 Russia ’s gas export monopoly plunged to a five-year low of $76.7
billion. Shares of state-run Gazprom have dropped since 2008
after the company increased its spending plans amid declining
exports to Europe, its biggest market, and as consumers won
price disputes against the producer.  “It’s a very smart move and a good strategy to help
increase capitalization of the company,” Ilya Balakirev, senior
analyst at UFS Finance Investment Co. in Moscow, said by phone
Aug. 2. “Russian companies are fundamentally undervalued and no
one understands the depth of the discount better than those who
run the companies.”  Russia’s Micex Index, the cheapest among 21  emerging
markets  tracked by Bloomberg, trades at 5.3 times estimated
earnings, compared with ratios of 14.2 for India’s  S&P BSE
Sensex Index (SENSEX) , 13.8 for Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  and 8.9 for China’s
 Shanghai Composite Index. (SHCOMP)   ‘Strongly Underestimated’  The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in
the stock futures, was little changed at 21.11 Aug. 2. The
 Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest exchange-traded fund
tracking Russian stocks, lost 1.6 percent last week to $26.30.  Sergei Kupriyanov , the Moscow-based Gazprom spokesman,
declined to comment on Zubkov’s purchase when contacted by
 Bloomberg News  by phone on Aug. 1. The company’s board said that
shares were “strongly underestimated” by the market, according
to a May 21 statement.  Gazprom’s ADRs settled at a 0.2 percent discount to the
company’s Moscow-listed shares, the biggest gap in a week.
Gazprom fell 1.3 percent to 128.38 rubles in Moscow Aug. 2,
losing 0.3 percent last week.  Net income will drop as much as 10 percent this year
because of repayments to European customers and higher taxes,
Chief Financial Officer Andrey Kruglov said in Moscow June 27.  Stock Purchases  “The market underestimates Gazprom’s potential and we
recommend buying it because it will be forced to improve its
corporate governance dramatically due to competition,” Dmitry Loukashov, an oil and gas analyst at VTB Capital, said by phone
from Moscow on Aug. 2.  Gazprom plans a stock options program for top managers by
the end of 2013, Interfax news agency said on July 16, citing a
company’s presentation to investors.  Zubkov joins  OAO Lukoil (LUKOY) ’s billionaire chief executive
officer  Vagit Alekperov , who more than quadrupled his stock
purchases to $618 million this year from $148 million in 2012,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  George Rizhinashvili, a deputy chairman of renewable energy
producer OAO RusHydro, boosted his stake almost sixfold since
November, company filings showed in May.  ADRs of RusHydro were the biggest gainers in the Russia-US
Index last week, climbing 3.6 percent, while  CTC Media Inc. (CTCM)  led
declines after retreating 6.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  