-- Vodafone Seeks $1.3 Billion Damages From Telecom Italia
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-08-05T11:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/vodafone-seeks-1-billion-euros-in-damages-from-telecom-italia.html
  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s Italian unit is
seeking more than 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in damages from
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , claiming  Italy ’s largest phone company
abused its dominant position in the market.  “Vodafone has commenced litigation against Telecom
Italia,” the second-largest wireless carrier said in a
statement yesterday. “The civil action states that Telecom
Italia committed a series of abuses between 2008 and 2013 with
the intention and effect of impeding growth in competition in
the Italian fixed-line market.”  Telecom Italia is convinced it will show the “absolute
correctness” of its actions, it said in a statement. Italy’s
competition regulator fined Telecom Italia about 104 million
euros for abusing its dominant position in network
infrastructure in May. The company is appealing the decision.
Fitch Ratings today cut its rating on Telecom Italia’s debt to
the lowest investment grade.  Vodafone and Telecom Italia, the Milan-based former phone
monopoly in Italy, are the two biggest wireless companies in the
country, together controlling about two thirds of the mobile-phone market, according to the  Agcom  regulator. Vodafone, based
in Newbury, England, doesn’t have a fixed-line network in Italy,
and Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  is seeking to sell
combined packages of phone, Internet and television across the
continent.  Goodwill Writedown  The carrier may acquire Fastweb SpA, a unit of  Swisscom AG (SCMN) ,
in Italy to expand its fixed-line and Internet assets, people
familiar with the matter said in June.  “The dispute might be a sign of the extension of the
battlefield to the market of integrated fixed-mobile services,”
said Carlo Alberto Carnevale-Maffe, a professor of business
strategy at Milan’s  Bocconi University .  Telecom Italia fell as much as 1.8 percent and traded 0.9
percent lower at 48.6 cents at 1:22 p.m. in Milan. Credit-default swaps insuring Telecom Italia’s debt for five years rose
as much as 12 percent to 405 basis points, signaling a
deterioration in creditworthiness.  The derivatives pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Fitch’s downgrade to BBB- put its rating  in line  with
 Standard & Poor’s , and with Moody’s Investors Service’s
equivalent Baa3 ranking. In its statement, Fitch cited “the
worsening operating conditions” in Telecom Italia’s domestic
business “due to regulatory pressure, a continued mobile price
war and a weak economic environment.”  Telecom Italia last week reported a first-half net loss of
1.41 billion euros after taking goodwill writedowns of 2.2
billion euros and cut an earning forecast on intensifying
wireless competition. With its debt rating one step above junk
and after failing to sell a stake to  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ,
Telecom Italia is working on spinning off its fixed-line assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  