-- Western Asset Picks China Developer Debt as Slowdown Cuts Prices
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-08-04T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-04/western-asset-picks-china-developer-debt-as-slowdown-cuts-prices.html
Chinese developer bonds are among top
picks for Western Asset Management Co. after investors exiting
the debt on slowdown fears pushed the notes to bargain prices.  Western Asset, which had more than $436 billion under
management as of June 30, favors short-dated bonds from BB rated
real-estate companies, according to Chia-Liang Lian, the
Singapore-based head of  investment management  for  Asia  outside
 Japan . Securities sold by Beijing-based  Soho China Ltd. (410) , for
example, fell as low as 94 cents on the dollar in June before
rallying to 99 cents last week, Bloomberg prices show.  “These are good names, they have a relatively long track
record as bond issuers and, if you look at real estate versus
other industries, it’s more transparent,” said Lian, speaking
during an interview in Hong Kong last week. “Fears of a Chinese
hard landing, we think, are overplayed and we have full
confidence that there will be sufficient ammunition.”  Banks from Citigroup Inc. to JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Barclays Plc expect the world’s second-largest economy to miss
this year’s 7.5 percent growth target, a survey of analysts for
 Bloomberg News  showed last week. Money streamed out of emerging
market debt funds for a ninth consecutive week in the period to
July 24, as investors pulled $1.1 billion from bonds, according
to a Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc report on July 26, citing
EPFR data.  Slowing Growth  Chinese expansion slowed for a second quarter in the three
months to June 30, extending the longest streak of sub-8 percent
expansion in at least two decades.  Beijing last week pledged to prevent growth from slipping
below a “reasonable” level as manufacturing gauges gave a
mixed picture of output. An official index beat estimates while
a preliminary gauge from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
fell to an 11-month low.  “The growth-at-all-costs model clearly is one that the
current administration is trying to depart from,” said Lian.
“Slower growth isn’t necessarily a bad thing. When you think
about the Chinese economy, obviously it’s entering a phase of
maturation,” he said, adding that growth of about 7 percent is
in reach.  Notes from Chinese developers returned 1.24 percent in
July, the third-best performing property bonds globally, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The securities lost 4.87
percent in the quarter to June 30, the second worst in the
sector.  Western Asset is also looking at opportunities in the
utilities sector and in debt from quasi-sovereigns, Lian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  