-- Manchester United Upset by Last-Place Blackburn 3-2 as Arsenal, Villa Win
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2011-12-31T17:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/manchester-united-upset-by-last-place-blackburn-3-2-as-arsenal-villa-win.html
Blackburn Rovers  upset Manchester
United 3-2 to move off the bottom of the standings in English
soccer’s Premier League and also denied the defending champions
the chance to take sole lead in the title race.  Grant Hanley’s header with 10 minutes remaining prevented
United from taking over the league lead. Ayegbeni Yakubu
contributed two goals as Rovers won just their third game to
move above Bolton to 19th in the 20-team league.  “This result’s massive,” Blackburn manager  Steve Kean ,
who has been heavily criticized by his club’s fans, told ESPN.
“To come here with such a young side and win it can be a real
springboard for us to go and kick on.”  Dimitar Berbatov  scored twice for defending league champion
United, which remains tied with  Manchester City  at the top of
the standings with 45 points. City plays at Sunderland on
Sunday, Jan. 1.  “It’s a disappointment, I couldn’t believe it,” United
manager  Alex Ferguson , who celebrated his 70th birthday today,
told ESPN. “Nobody expected that.”  Arsenal moved into fourth place with a 1-0 win over Queens
Park Rangers, while  Aston Villa  was a 3-1 winner at Chelsea.
Swansea rallied for a 1-1 tie against Tottenham, Wigan earned a
late 2-2 draw at Stoke, Bolton and Wolverhampton finished 1-
1 as did Norwich and Fulham.   Yakubu, a Nigerian, gave Blackburn the lead in Manchester
with a penalty kick in the 16th minute after Berbatov pulled
down Christopher Samba. Yakubu then made it 2-0 early in the
second half with his 12th league goal.  Van Persie Goal  Berbatov scored just 27 seconds after the kickoff for
United’s 1,500th Premier League goal, and tied the game 10
minutes later. Blackburn re-gained the lead on Hanley’s goal
with 10 minutes left as the defender beat David De Gea to head a
corner kick into the air, then nodded the ball into the net.  “Look at the way we played today,” Yakubu said after
Blackburn’s second win over United in 18 Premier League
meetings. “We fought for each other, we gave everything.”  Robin van Persie  scored his league-leading 17th goal to
send Arsenal over Chelsea into fourth. The Dutchman finished the
calendar year with 35 league goals, one off Alan Shearer’s
record set in 1995.  Bolton fell a point behind Blackburn after its home draw
with Wolves, while Scott Sinclair’s 84th-minute goal earned
Swansea the home tie with third-place Tottenham.  Stylian Petrov and Darren Bent scored in the final seven
minutes to give Aston Villa the win at Chelsea, which is winless
in four games, while Simeon Jackson scored in stoppage time as
Norwich earned the home draw with Fulham.  Ben Watson  scored with an 87th-minute penalty to give 10-
man Wigan a 2-2 draw at Stoke. Wigan’s Gary Caldwell was sent
off in the 77th minute for a deliberate handball.  West Brom hosts Everton in tomorrow’s other Premier League
match.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 