-- Chile Hurries Help to Patagonia Park Fire
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2011-12-31T20:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/chile-sends-more-help-to-patagonia-park-fire.html
Chilean authorities said they had
arrested an Israeli tourist in connection with a blaze that has
destroyed thousands of hectares in the  Parque Nacional Torres
del Paine , a main tourist attraction.  More than 550 government and military personnel from Chile
and  Argentina  and several aircraft have been deployed to combat
the fire that has entered its fifth day, according to the
website of Chile’s emergency agency, Onemi. Interior Minister
Rodrigo Hinzpeter said more than 11,000 hectares (27,000 acres)
have been consumed.  A 24-hour window of milder weather may allow the government
to increase efforts to stop the fire after strong winds had
fanned the blaze, Hinzpeter said. Onemi, the nation’s emergency
agency, said 115 people were fighting the fire on Dec. 29.  “The milder weather will last approximately 24 hours and
we expect stronger winds in the next two days,” Hinzpeter said
in statements broadcast by CNN  Chile . “We hope to control today
at least three of the six areas where the fire is concentrated
in the park.”  The 180,000-hectare park in Chile’s Patagonia region is
famous for its vertical  granite peaks  and is  home to Andean
condors , pumas and  endangered huemul  deer.  Roter Singer, a 23-year-old Israeli tourist, was arrested
as a suspect in starting the fire and will be charged later
today, Santiago-based newspaper La Tercera reported on its
website, citing police.  Chile has declared a so-called state of catastrophe in the
province. The government is interviewing and collecting data
from the 400 tourists who were evacuated from the park.  In 2005, a Czech tourist started a fire in the same park
when his camping stove fell over. He was arrested and deported.
Firefighters took about 30 days to control that blaze, Hinzpeter
said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  