-- China’s Central Bank to Keep Monetary Policy ‘Prudent’ in 2012, Zhou Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-31T08:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/china-s-central-bank-to-keep-monetary-policy-prudent-in-2012-zhou-says.html
The People’s Bank of China will
maintain a “prudent” monetary stance to ensure policy remains
stable in 2012 and improve its management of foreign-exchange,
Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said.  The central bank will “deepen financial reform, accelerate
the development of financial markets, and strengthen and improve
foreign-exchange management,” Zhou said in a New Year message
on the PBOC’s website. Also today, Caixin magazine quoted Zhou
as saying that while the yuan is near equilibrium, the
currency’s trading band may widen to more than its current 0.5
percent on either side of the central  bank rate .  Expansion of the world’s second-biggest economy is slowing
as global growth falters and the government maintains curbs on
the property market to cool speculation and price gains. The
central bank may cut banks’ reserve requirements in January as a
weeklong Chinese New Year holiday increases demand for cash and
Premier  Wen Jiabao  tilts his focus toward sustaining growth.  “Accumulating evidence of weakness is building the case
for policy easing,” Citigroup Inc. economists, including Ding Shuang, said in a report before today’s release, citing the
slower pace of expansion in industrial production and fixed-
asset investment. “We expect more policy easing in the months
ahead, starting with another reserve ratio cut by the Chinese
New Year.” The holiday starts Jan. 23.  Growth Slows  China’s  gross domestic product (CNGDPYOY)  expanded 9.1 percent from a
year earlier in the third quarter, the least in two years. The
pace may have fallen to 8.5 percent in the fourth quarter, Ding
said in a Dec. 30 note.  Inflation slowed to 4.2 percent in November, still above
the government’s target of 4 percent for the whole year.  China ’s
consumer prices probably rose about 5 percent this year,
exceeding the government’s target of 4 percent, and inflation
controls have had some effect, Zhou said, according to Caixin.  “The economic growth momentum will be strong next year, as
the inflation
situation is improving,” Zhou said, according to Caixin. “The
urgency of containing inflation isn’t as high as that in the
beginning of 2011.”  Zhou said the central bank will maintain a reasonable scale
of social financing and make efforts to optimize the credit
structure. China’s current account surplus may be about 3
percent of gross domestic product in 2011, Caixin quoted Zhou as
saying.  Trade Surplus  China’s merchandise trade surplus may still exceed $150
billion this year, Zhou said, according to Caixin. The country’s
capital and current account balances have seen improvements
though there has been “no reversal in fundamentals” and both
remain in surplus, Zhou said, according to Caixin.  China reduced in November the amount of money banks must
park with the PBOC, the first cut since 2008, freeing cash to
support growth as  Europe ’s debt crisis capped exports and the
 property market  cooled.  Manufacturing contracted for a second month in December, a
purchasing managers’ index released by HSBC Holdings Plc showed.
In November, China’s export growth was the weakest since 2009,
excluding seasonal distortions.  Zhou also reiterated that China, the world’s biggest holder
of foreign reserves, will work to strengthen and improve
foreign-exchange management, improve financial services and
management, and prevent systemic financial risks. He said China
will push yuan reform in a gradual way, according to Caixin.  The yuan “is getting closer to its equilibrium level after
several years of gradual adjustment”, Zhou said, according to
Caixin. As the currency nears its target level, the cost of
further policy adjustment strategies “may become much
greater,” Caixin quoted him as saying.  The Chinese currency gained 4.7 percent against the dollar
this year, its best performance since 2008. It advanced 0.40
percent to 6.2940 yesterday in  Shanghai , breaking the 6.3 mark
for the first since 1993, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  