-- China to Balance ‘Quick’ Growth With Inflation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-31T12:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/china-to-balance-quick-growth-with-inflation-in-2012-president-hu-says.html
China  will balance “relatively
quick”  economic growth (CNGDPYOY)  with inflation control in 2012, amid
rising uncertainty about the world economic recovery,
President  Hu Jintao  said in a speech today.  The government will speed up economic structural adjustment
and give priority to improving people’s  well-being (CHINURBN) , Hu said in
the five-minute New Year’s Eve speech carried on state
television and radio.  “We will continue to manage well the relationship between
stable and relatively quick economic growth, structural
adjustment and inflation,” Hu said. “Global interdependence is
deepening while instability and uncertainty in the world
economy’s revival is increasing.”  Hu gave no detail about how his government, which is set to
start transferring power to China’s next generation of leaders
in the coming months, plans to manage an economy that Nomura
Holdings estimates will expand at 7.9 percent in 2012, the
slowest pace in 13 years.  Inflation (CNCPIYOY)  is moderating after reaching
a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July.  The government is wrestling with the aftermath of past
stimulus, including the debt burdens of local-government
investment vehicles. Companies also face rising labor costs, and
Communist Party leaders have recently sought to defuse protests
over illegal  land use  and environmental pollution.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  tumbled 22 percent in 2011,
the most since 2008 and extending 2010’s 14 percent plunge, on
concerns over  Europe ’s debt crisis and risks of a future wave of
bank bad loans at home.  Manufacturing Contracts  China’s  manufacturing (EC11CHPM)  contracted for a second month in
December as Europe’s debt crisis cut export demand, fueling
speculation that the central bank may cut lenders’ reserve
requirements within days.  Earlier today, the head of China’s central bank,  Zhou Xiaochuan , said the country would maintain a “prudent”
monetary stance and ensure that policy remains stable in 2012.  The nation’s economic growth cooled to 9.1 percent in the
third quarter, the least in more than two years, and export
growth in November was the weakest since 2009 excluding seasonal
distortions.  While the 25-member Politburo affirmed an unchanged
“proactive” fiscal stance for 2012 in December, a Nov. 30 cut
in banks’ reserve requirements indicated a shift toward a bigger
emphasis on supporting growth.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  