-- Exxon Awarded $750 Mln for Nationalized Venezuelan Assets
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2012-01-01T00:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/exxon-wins-749m-for-nationalized-venezuela-assets.html
Petroleos de Venezuela SA (PDVSA)  must pay
about $750 million to  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , a tenth of what the
U.S. company is seeking, for assets nationalized by Venezuelan
President  Hugo Chavez  in 2007, according to two people with
knowledge of the case.  The  International Chamber of Commerce  in  New York , an
international arbitration court, gave a “favorable” ruling to
 Venezuela ’s state oil company, a company spokesman said today.
The World Bank’s International Centre for Settlement of
Investment Disputes, or ICSID, is also due to rule on the claim
in a suit filed against the Venezuelan government.  The people, who declined to be identified because they’re
not authorized to speak about the case publicly, said the
decision was handed down late this month.  Chavez, who has nationalized assets in the energy, metals,
cement and telecommunications industries, faces about  20
arbitration cases  at the ICSID, according to the Washington-
based center’s website. Venezuelan Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez 
said in September that the country was willing to pay Exxon $1
billion after Carlos Escarra, the country’s prosecutor general,
told reporters that the two companies were negotiating a
settlement of about $6 billion.  ‘Relatively Significant’  “I suspect these kinds of things, the legal wrangling,
will probably drag on for years,”  Gianna Bern , president of
Chicago-based risk management adviser Brookshire Advisory and
Research, said today in a telephone interview. “Even at $750
million, it’s still relatively significant for PDVSA. It’s not
an inconsequential amount of money.”  Patrick McGinn, a spokesman for  Exxon Mobil  in Houston,
said he wasn’t immediately able to comment. The PDVSA spokesman,
who declined to be identified because of company policy, said
Ramirez was unlikely to comment on the ruling today.  Chavez forced foreign oil producers into joint ventures as
minority partners in 2007 and is in international arbitration
with the U.S.’s Exxon Mobil and  ConocoPhillips (COP) , which rejected
revised terms. The Cerro Negro venture held by Exxon refined
tar-like crude into synthetic oil from wells in the Orinoco
heavy-crude belt.  ConocoPhillips said earlier this month that the ICSID held
a hearing in the summer of 2010 and that the company is waiting
for a decision on legal and factual issues.  Exxon initially won an order in the U.K. blocking PDVSA
from selling $12 billion worth of assets anywhere in the world.
The order was overturned by a U.K. court in March 2009.  Set Aside  PDVSA set aside about $1 billion to $1.5 billion in
anticipation of the judgment, Credit Suisse said in June. Exxon,
the world’s largest oil company by market value, cut the amount
it was seeking from PDVSA in October 2010 to $7 billion from $12
billion.  “Certainly, this type of award falls far short of
expectations, or at least what they were willing to publicly
settle at, and these types of rulings could influence the
decision of companies to escalate these kinds of arbitration
proceedings,” Bern said from  Chicago . “It appears to be fairly
disappointing for Exxon Mobil.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  