-- Four Republicans to Join Perry’s VA Challenge
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-01-01T23:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/four-republicans-to-join-rick-perry-s-virginia-ballot-rule-legal-challenge.html
(Corrects spelling of Michele in first paragraph of story
published yesterday.)  Republican presidential candidates
 Michele Bachmann ,  Newt Gingrich ,  Jon Huntsman  and Rick Santorum
said they will join  Texas  Governor Rick Perry in his lawsuit
seeking to be placed on  Virginia ’s March 6 primary ballot.  Only former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas met Virginia’s petition
requirements to earn a place on the ballot. The state’s
Republican Party said Dec. 24 that Perry and Gingrich, the
former U.S. House speaker, failed to get proper signatures from
10,000 registered voters as required.  In a joint letter today to Virginia’s Board of Elections
and Republican Party, lawyers for Bachmann, Gingrich, Huntsman
and Santorum said they will file a motion to intervene in
Perry’s legal challenge in Richmond federal court. On Dec. 29, a
U.S. judge declined to stop the printing of ballots before the
next hearing in Perry’s case, scheduled for Jan. 13. He didn’t
rule on the merits of Perry’s challenge.  “This should not be a gauntlet to figure out how you can
make it virtually impossible to run for president,” Gingrich
said today at a campaign stop in Atlantic,  Iowa . “This ought to
be a system that enables the voters to decide who they would
like to have run for president.”  The four Republicans urged the election board either to
take no action until Jan. 13 or to add them to the ballot,
ending the legal challenge “and avoiding unnecessary costs and
expenses to the state and the parties.”  Legal Counsel  The letter was signed by J. Christian Adams, counsel to
Bachmann; Stefan C. Passantino, counsel to Gingrich; Craig Engle,
counsel to Huntsman; and Cleta Mitchell, counsel to Santorum.  Virginia Attorney General  Ken Cuccinelli  said he will seek
to intervene in the Perry lawsuit and propose legislation that
would allow most Republican presidential candidates to be named
on his state’s primary ballot, according to Fox News.  In a separate state court lawsuit, a Virginia lawyer this
month sued the Board of Elections and  Republican Party  to get
Gingrich’s name on the ballot. In Iowa today, Gingrich said he
hopes the state legislature finds a solution to put everyone on
the ballot.  “The challenge in Virginia isn’t about the candidates,
it’s about the voters,” he said.  The Perry case is Perry v. Judd, 11-00856, U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond); The
Gingrich case is Moseley v. Virginia State Board of Elections,
Circuit Court of Richmond County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Atlantic, Iowa, at   thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  