-- Glaxo CEO Witty Joins Golfers Clarke, McIlroy in U.K. Honors
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2011-12-31T03:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/glaxo-ceo-witty-joins-golfers-clarke-mcilroy-for-u-k-honors.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Witty  and former  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  Chairman David Reid
were given knighthoods in a U.K. honors list that also includes
golfers Darren Clarke and  Rory McIlroy .  Actress Helena Bonham Carter, comedian Ronnie Corbett and
writer Clive James were also among the 984 people granted civic
honors in today’s biannual awards, the Cabinet Office in London
said. They include community and charity workers nominated by
the public as well as business leaders, public servants and
stars of sport and entertainment.  Witty, 47, took over as head of Glaxo in 2008 after more
than 20 years at the London-based company. Glaxo is developing
the world’s first vaccine against malaria, which has the
potential to prevent the deaths of 800,000 children a year.  Reid, 64, spent 26 years on the board of the U.K.’s largest
supermarket chain, including eight years as chairman, overseeing
expansion into the U.S. and  China . He stepped down in November
and will take over as chairman of  Intertek Group Plc (ITRK) , the
world’s largest consumer-goods testing company in 2012.  As knights, Witty and Reid will be able to put “Sir” in
front of their names. They will receive medals from  Queen Elizabeth II  at a ceremony at which she touches them on both
shoulders with a sword. Neither responded to requests for
comment through their offices yesterday.  Sentance Honored  Andrew Sentance , who stepped down in May from the  Bank of
England ’s Monetary Policy Committee after five years, was made a
Commander of the Order of the British Empire, entitling him to
put the letters “CBE” after his name.  Business people made up 12 percent of the list. Paul Ruddock, CEO and co-founder of Lansdowne Partners Ltd.,  Europe ’s
largest equity hedge fund, was knighted for his charitable work.
Jonathan Ive,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s senior vice president of industrial
design, received the distinction for services to design and
enterprise.  Peter Bazalgette, the former chief creative officer of
 Endemol NV (EML)  who’s credited with a string of British television
hits including “Big Brother,” was also knighted, as was John Buchanan, chairman of  Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) , Europe’s biggest maker
of artificial hips and knees.  Gerald Ronson, the CEO of property developer Heron
International Ltd. who was imprisoned in 1990, was awarded a CBE
for his philanthropic work. Ronson served six months of a one-
year sentence for creating a false market in  Guinness Plc (GUIN)  shares
during the 1986 battle between Guinness and Argyll Group Plc for
Distillers Company Plc.  Self-Service Gas  Before that, he had helped introduce the self-service gas
station to the U.K. According to Heron’s website, he has raised
more than 100 million pounds ($150 million) for charity. His
office said he was traveling and unavailable for comment
yesterday.  There’s also a knighthood for  London ’s Lord Mayor, Michael
Bear, for services to the city, regeneration and charity.  The honors are bestowed in the name of the queen and are
recommended by an independent panel, which considers suggestions
from government departments and political parties as well as
from the public.  Helena Morrissey, CEO of Newton Investment Management Ltd,
received a CBE for her work in pushing companies to put more
women on boards.  The two Northern Irish golfers were both honored after a
year that saw them take their first major titles. Clarke, named
an Officer of the Order of the British Empire, captured the
British Open at Royal St. Georges in Sandwich, southeast
 England , by three shots. It was his 20th appearance at golf’s
oldest championship.  Record Setter  McIlroy, now a Member of the Order of the British Empire,
won the  U.S. Open  in Bethesda, Maryland, by eight strokes. His
score of 16-under-par was the lowest in the tournament’s 111-
year history, one of 12 U.S. Open records he set.  Bonham Carter, whose voice was heard over Christmas on
British television narrating the children’s book “The
Gruffalo’s Child,” has been a fixture in the movie world since
starring in the 1985 film “A Room With a View.” As well as
appearing in a series of adaptations of classic English works,
she has also featured in “Fight Club” and the 2001 remake of
“Planet of the Apes.”  She received a CBE, as did Corbett, the surviving half of
“the Two Ronnies,” a comedy show that ran on British TV from
1971 to 1987. Clive James, another CBE recipient, made his name
as a TV critic before appearing on the medium in travel and
entertainment shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 