-- Bunds Post Best Returns in Three Years as Italy Debt Drops Most Since ’92
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2011-12-31T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/greek-italian-bonds-slide-as-bunds-have-best-year-since-2008.html
Greek and Italian government bonds
had their worst years on record as Europe’s financial woes
intensified, driving investors to sell securities of Europe’s
most indebted nations.  German bonds rallied, making the largest profit since 2008,
as the crisis spurred demand for the region’s safest fixed-
income assets. Fifteen European summits in two years have
produced five plans without managing to quell the turmoil that
started in Greece and this year infected  Italy , Spain and
France. As bondholders negotiated writedowns of Greek bonds, the
 European Central Bank  was said to begin buying Italian and
Spanish debt in an effort to stem financial contagion.  “This year was the wake-up call,” said  Steven Major , the
global head of fixed income research at HSBC Holdings Plc in
London. “Only  Germany  came through the year looking like a true
sovereign, and it got the full benefit. The others are all
exposed.”  Greek bonds handed investors a 63 percent loss through Dec.
29, the largest since at least 2000, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Italian bonds lost 5.7 percent for the worst
year since at least 1992. German securities,  Europe ’s benchmark
government debt, made a 9.6 percent return, according to the
Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes.  Aid Request  Italy’s 10-year  yield (GBTPGR10)  ended the year near the 7 percent
mark that led Greece and Ireland to seek international bailouts
last year and Portugal to follow with an aid request in April.
The nation sold 7 billion euros ($9.06 billion) of bonds two
days ago, less than the maximum target of 8.5 billion euros,
including a sale of 5 percent 2022 bonds at a yield 6.98
percent.  The 10-year rate reached 7.483 percent on Nov. 9, the most
since the euro was introduced in 1999. Kokusai Asset Management
Co.’s Global Sovereign Open, Japan’s biggest mutual fund, sold
its entire holdings of Italian  government bonds  by Nov. 10, a
weekly report from the fund showed. BNP Paribas SA and
Commerzbank AG said in earnings reports the same month that they
were unloading sovereign bonds at a loss.  The government of Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
expects to raise almost half a trillion euros from bond and bill
sales next year as the economy sinks into its fourth recession
since 2001. Europe’s governments need to persuade banks and
investors to buy 1.1 trillion euros of debt to repay long- and
short-term securities next year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Debt-Swap Agreement  The price of Greek two-year notes slid to as little as 25
cents on the euro, with yields surging as high as 156.60
percent, as the nation negotiated a debt-swap agreement with
creditors. The swap, part of a 130 billion-euro second bailout
agreement for  Greece , is supposed to help reduce its debt to 120
percent of gross domestic product by 2020. The country’s 206
billion euros of privately held debt would be reduced by 50
percent under an agreement announced at an Oct. 26 summit of
European leaders in Brussels.  German and Dutch two-year note yields were pushed to
records in the past week amid speculation ECB President  Mario
Draghi  will continue with measures to boost the economy. He
oversaw two cuts in the central bank’s  benchmark interest rate (EURR002W) 
and offered banks unlimited loans for as much as three years
after taking over from  Jean-Claude Trichet .  Germany’s two-year note  yield (GDBR2)  reached a record-low 0.142
percent on Dec. 29 and the Dutch rate reached 0.153 percent
yesterday.  Ratings Cut  Amid concern the debt crisis may prompt  ratings agencies  to
cut their grades for some of Europe’s AAA rated nations,  French (GFRN10) 
and Austrian 10-year yields also rose to euro-era records
relative to benchmark German bunds in November.  Standard &
Poor’s  on Dec. 5 put Germany,  France  and 13 other euro-area
nations on review for a downgrade, saying “continuing
disagreements among European policy makers on how to tackle”
the region’s debt crisis risk damaging their financial
stability.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy is set to travel to Berlin
on Jan. 9 to resume talks with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
on ending the euro-region debt crisis, an official familiar with
the matter said two days ago. The efforts to fix the crisis may
ultimately weigh on German bonds, said HSBC’s Major.  “Someone has to pay and ultimately it’s for the good of
Germany that the euro survives,” Major said. “Common issuance
is an inevitable part of any solution,” he said, referring to
joint bond sales by European nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  