-- Nigeria Declares State of Emergency in North
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2011-12-31T18:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/nigeria-declares-state-of-emergency-in-north.html
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan 
declared a state of emergency in parts of four northern states
following a series of attacks by Islamic militants in the
northeast and Abuja, the capital of Africa’s top oil producer.  Emergency rule was declared in parts of the northeastern
Borno and Yobe states as well as the central Plateau and Niger
states, the Abuja-based presidency said today in an e-mailed
statement.  “The Chief of Defense Staff, in collaboration with other
Service Chiefs, has also been directed to set up a special force
unit within the Armed Forces, with dedicated counterterrorism
responsibilities,” Jonathan said in the statement.  International borders near the affected states will closed
“to control incidences of cross-border terrorist activities as
terrorists have taken advantage of the present situation to
strike at targets in  Nigeria  and retreat beyond the reach of our
law-enforcement personnel,” Jonathan said.  At least 43 people were killed and 73 wounded in a
Christmas Day bombing of a church near Abuja, the Very Reverend
Isaac Achi, cleric in charge of the church, said yesterday.  Boko Haram, a group which draws inspiration from
 Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement, claimed responsibility for the
attack and vowed to continue with more, Abu Qaqa, a spokesman
for the group said yesterday in an e-mailed statement from the
northeastern city of Maiduguri.  While the Nigerian police have arrested hundreds of
suspected Islamic militants who are believed to have carried out
attacks in parts of the north, the police need “strong
evidence” to arrest the leaders of the group, Police Inspector-
General Hafiz Ringim said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Boko Haram Attacks  Authorities in  Africa ’s most populous nation of more than
160 million people blame Boko Haram for a surge of violence in
the mainly Muslim north and Abuja in which hundreds of people
have died in 2011. At least 72 people have been killed in
fighting since Dec. 22 between Nigerian security forces and the
militant group in the northeastern city of Damaturu, officials
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  