-- N. Korea Vows ‘Human Shields’ for Jong Un
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-01-01T00:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/north-korea-rings-in-new-year-with-threat-to-defend-kim-as-human-bombs-.html
North Korea  said it will begin an era
of prosperity in 2012 by resolving food and power shortages, and
called on the people to become “human shields” to protect new
leader Kim Jong Un “unto death.”  “The whole party, the entire army and all the people
should possess a firm conviction that they will become human
bulwarks and human shields in defending Kim Jong Un,” the
state-run  Korea   Central News Agency  said, citing a New Year
editorial carried by newspapers Rodong Sinmun, Chongnyon Jonwi
and Joson Inmingun.  Kim Jong Il’s death last month after 17 years of rule has
left the nation in the hands of his son, a little known figure
who is thought to be under 30 and still securing power among
senior Workers’ Party and military leaders more than twice his
age. Kim Jong Un was appointed the new supreme commander of the
1.2 million-strong Korean People’s Army yesterday by the
Politburo, the most recent move to cement his grip on power in a
country where the  United Nations  says  one-third of the children 
are physically stunted from a lack of nutrition.  The New Year will “bear a brilliant fruit” and usher in
prosperity, KCNA cited today’s editorial as saying. “The food
problem is a burning issue in building a thriving country,” it
said. “Party organizations’ militant efficiency and officials’
loyalty to the revolution will be verified in solving this
problem,” KCNA reported, without saying how the country will
increase agricultural yields.  Prove Himself  Kim Jong Un needs to “prove himself in launching his new
regime -- and an economic measure would be the most efficient
way of doing that,” said Yang Moo Jin, a professor of North
Korean politics at the University of North Korean Studies in
Seoul. “What’s more hard-hitting for North Koreans than
policies that affect how they’ll be able to put food on the
table?”  Kim Jong Un inherited his father’s project of creating a
“strong and prosperous nation” by 2012, the centenary of state
founder  Kim Il Sung ’s birth, North Korea said in its New Year
message. The country will mark the year by building more  power
plants  and transforming “the national economy into a
technology-intensive one,” it said.  Economic Giant  North Korea must take a “decisive turn in the drive to
build the country into an economic giant and improve the
people’s standard of living,” the Workers’ Party central
committee and Central Military Commission said in a joint
statement yesterday, published by KCNA. The power, coal and
metal industries must be developed, foreign trade expanded and
the capital, Pyongyang, turned into a world class city, they
said.  The young Kim’s appointment as leader of the army signals
North Korea’s intent to carry on its military-first, or
“Songun,” policy, which gives priority in allocating resources
and in state affairs to the army, Yang said yesterday.  North Korea’s economy is one-fortieth of the size of  South
Korea ’s and has shrunk in four of the five years through 2010,
according to estimates by South Korea’s central bank. Its 2010
gross domestic product was 30 trillion won ($26.5 billion),
according to the bank’s estimates. Pyongyang doesn’t release GDP
data.  Outside Handouts  North Korea, which has a population of more than 24
million, has relied on outside handouts since the mid-1990s when
famine killed an estimated 2 million people. Almost 3 million
North Koreans will need food assistance in 2012, UN agencies
said in November.  North Korea warned that there will be no change in inter-
Korean relations as long as  Lee Myung Bak  is South Korea’s
president, accusing him of “unethical rowdyism” for his
policies after the death of  Kim Jong Il .  Lee’s “madcap saber-rattling” along the demilitarized
zone between the two countries and his decision to limit South
Korean visits to Kim’s funeral were provocations “baffling
human imagination,” the Committee for the Peaceful
Reunification of Korea said in a statement yesterday.  “This glaringly shows what rude political gangsters the
group is and what a despicable immoral and depraved horde it
is,” the statement said of Lee’s government. “It is clear that
there is nothing to expect from the inter-Korean relations and
the nation will suffer only calamities and misfortune as long as
this guy stays in office.”  Leadership Tests  Both Kim Jong Un and Lee face leadership tests that could
shape their attitude toward engagement. Lee and his ruling
party, which rolled back the “Sunshine Policy” of engagement
with the nuclear-armed North, have dropped in opinion polls
ahead of elections later this year.  In his annual address tomorrow, Lee will focus on inter-
Korean relations,  inflation (SKCIYOY)  and unemployment, according to a
spokesman at Lee’s office who declined to be named, citing
government policy. In a New Year’s greeting yesterday, Lee said
his focus for 2012 will be on taming inflation, creating jobs
and defending the country, the Yonhap news agency reported.  Lee will take advantage of the transition in the North and
announce a more conciliatory stance, said Kim Young Yoon of the
Seoul-based Korea Institute for National Reunification. The
opposition has blamed Lee for escalating tensions, saying his
tough stance provoked hostilities that killed 50 South Koreans
in 2010.  Approval Rating  Lee scaled back the Sunshine Policy implemented by his
predecessor, Kim Dae Jung, when he entered office in 2008,
saying that Kim Jong Il’s provocative policies shouldn’t be
rewarded. Lee’s approval rating is at 26.9 percent, according to
a poll of 3,750 South Koreans conducted Dec. 19-23 by Seoul-
based Real Meter. The margin of error was plus or minus 1.6
percentage points.  “The current mood in South Korea is to take advantage of
the North’s regime change and improve inter-Korean relations,”
Kim said. “The easiest way to do that would be to call for
high-level meetings to make way for resumed six-party talks,”
he said, referring to a dialogue that is aimed at persuading
North Korea to relinquish its nuclear-weapons program and
includes the U.S.,  China ,  Japan  and  Russia .  Travel Limited  South Korea ordered a “low-level” alert after Kim Jong
Il’s death was announced and expressed “sympathy” with the
North Korean people, while limiting the number of its citizens
who could travel to Pyongyang on condolence visits. Lee said the
measures were meant to signal that his country wasn’t hostile
toward the North, while Pyongyang issued threats of
“unpredictable catastrophic consequences” over the South’s
restrictions on visits.  Tensions on the Korean peninsula erupted into open conflict
in March 2010, when 46 South Korean sailors were killed in the
sinking of the Cheonan warship. An international panel blamed
the attack on North Korea, which has denied the allegations.
Eight months later, the North shelled an island in the  Yellow
Sea , killing four South Koreans.  North Korea, which has twice detonated a nuclear device,
has more than 250  long-range artillery installations  along the
world’s most fortified border in reach of the  Seoul  area and its
23 million citizens. North Korea and South Korea remain
technically at war after their 1950-1953 conflict ended in a
cease-fire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  