-- North Korea Says South’s President Lee Blocks Better Ties
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2011-12-31T13:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/north-korea-threatens-south-tells-world-expect-no-change-from-kim-jong-un.html
North  Korea  warned that there would
be no change in inter-Korean relations as long as  Lee Myung Bak 
is South Korea’s president, accusing him of “unethical
rowdyism” for his policies after the death of Kim Jong Il.  Lee’s “madcap saber-rattling” along the demilitarized
zone between the two countries and his decision to limit South
Korean visits to Kim’s funeral were provocations “baffling
human imagination,” the Committee for the Peaceful
Reunification of Korea said in a statement today.  “This glaringly shows what rude political gangsters the
group is and what a despicable immoral and depraved horde it
is,” the statement said of Lee’s government. “It is clear that
there is nothing to expect from the inter-Korean relations and
the nation will suffer only calamities and misfortune as long as
this guy stays in office.”  The statement was the second in two days that said the
North would have no dealings with Lee’s government, and came as
the Korean Central News Agency reported that Kim Jong Un was
appointed supreme commander of the Korean People’s Army.  Both Kim Jong Un and Lee face leadership tests that could
shape their attitude toward engagement. Kim Jong Un needs to
cement his grip on power in a country where the  United Nations 
says  one-third of the children  are physically stunted from a
lack of nutrition. Lee and his ruling party, which rolled back
the “Sunshine Policy” of engagement with the nuclear-armed
North, have dropped in opinion polls ahead of elections next
year.  “Prove Himself”  Kim Jong Un needs to “prove himself in launching his new
regime -- and an economic measure would be the most efficient
way of doing that,” said Yang Moo Jin, a professor of North
Korean politics at the University of North Korean Studies in
Seoul. “What’s more hard-hitting for North Koreans than
policies that affect how they’ll be able to put food on the
table?”  North Korea must take a “decisive turn in the drive to
build the country into an economic giant and improve the
people’s standard of living,” the Workers’ Party central
committee and Central Military Commission said in a joint
statement today, published by KCNA. The power, coal and metal
industries must be developed, foreign trade expanded and the
capital, Pyongyang, turned into a world class city, they said.  Songun Policy  Kim Jong Un’s appointment as leader of the army signals
 North Korea ’s intent to carry on its military-first, or
“Songun,” policy, which gives priority in allocating resources
and in state affairs to the army, Yang said.  In his annual address on Jan. 2, Lee will focus on inter-
Korean relations,  inflation (SKCIYOY)  and unemployment, according to a
spokesman at Lee’s office who declined to be named, citing
government policy. In a New Year’s message today, Lee said his
focus for 2012 will be on taming inflation, creating jobs and
defending the country, the Yonhap news agency reported.  North Korea’s 2010 gross domestic product was 30 trillion
won ($26.5 billion), one-fortieth the size of South Korea’s,
according to estimates by the South’s central bank. North
Korea’s economy probably shrank in four of the past five years,
the  Bank of Korea  says. Pyongyang doesn’t release GDP data.  Growth to Slow  South Korea ’s gross domestic product nearly doubled to
1,173 trillion won ($1 trillion) from 2001 to 2010. The Bank of
Korea forecasts that the country’s economic growth will slow to
3.7 percent next year from 3.8 percent this year.  Lee will take advantage of the transition in the North and
announce a more conciliatory stance, said Kim Young Yoon of the
Seoul-based Korea Institute for National Reunification. The
opposition has blamed Lee for escalating tensions, saying his
tough stance provoked hostilities that killed 50 South Koreans
in 2010.  Lee scaled back the Sunshine Policy implemented by his
predecessor, Kim Dae Jung, when he entered office in 2008,
saying that Kim Jong Il’s provocative policies shouldn’t be
rewarded. Lee’s approval rating is at 26.9 percent, according to
a poll of 3,750 South Koreans conducted Dec. 19-23 by Seoul-
based Real Meter. The margin of error was plus or minus 1.6
percentage points.  Nuclear Talks  “The current mood in South Korea is to take advantage of
the North’s regime change and improve inter-Korean relations,”
Kim said. “The easiest way to do that would be to call for
high-level meetings to make way for resumed six-party talks,”
he said, referring to a dialogue that is aimed at persuading
North Korea to relinquish its nuclear-weapons program and
includes the U.S.,  China ,  Japan  and  Russia .  South Korea ordered a “low-level” alert after  Kim Jong
Il ’s death was announced and expressed “sympathy” with the
North Korean people, while limiting the number of its citizens
who could travel to Pyongyang on condolence visits. Lee said the
measures were meant to signal that his country wasn’t hostile
toward the North, while Pyongyang issued threats of
“unpredictable catastrophic consequences” over the South’s
restrictions on visits.  Tensions on the Korean peninsula erupted into open conflict
in March 2010, when 46 South Korean sailors were killed in the
sinking of the Cheonan warship. An international panel blamed
the attack on North Korea, which has denied the allegations.
Eight months later, the North shelled an island in the  Yellow
Sea , killing four South Koreans.  North Korea, which has twice detonated a nuclear device,
has more than 250  long-range artillery installations  along the
world’s most fortified border in reach of the  Seoul  area and its
23 million citizens. North Korea and South Korea remain
technically at war after their 1950-1953 conflict ended in a
cease-fire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  