-- Obama Signs Defense Spending Law, With Interpretations
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-01-02T21:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/obama-signs-defense-authorization-law-with-own-interpretations-on-custody.html
(Corrects funding description of missile defense in sixth
paragraph of story published Dec. 31)  President  Barack Obama , signing into
law a $662 billion defense spending plan today, attached his own
legal interpretation to several sections that the White House
had contested with Congress, including a provision that requires
suspected members of al-Qaeda be kept in military custody.  “The fact that I support this bill as a whole does not
mean I agree with everything in it,” Obama said in a signing
statement appended to the measure. “In particular, I have
signed this bill despite having serious reservations with
certain provisions that regulate the detention, interrogation
and prosecution of suspected terrorists.”  The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012
seeks to curb cost overruns of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35
fighter jet for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1. Lawmakers
frustrated by delays and cost overruns ordered the Pentagon to
make Lockheed Martin absorb costs if it exceeds a negotiated
target in a forthcoming sixth F-35 production contract.  The Defense Department is currently negotiating the fifth
contract for the  F-35 . At $382 billion, it’s the Pentagon’s
largest weapons program.  The defense authorization law calls for spending $27
billion less than Obama sought, and $43 billion less than fiscal
2011. It also tightens sanctions on  Iran  by denying access to
the U.S. financial system to any foreign bank that conducts
business with the Central Bank of Iran.  It provides a spending ceiling of $390 million for the
multinational missile-defense program known as the Medium
Extended Air Defense System, though three-fourths of that
funding would be restricted until the defense secretary submits
a detailed plan “either for implementing a smaller restructured
program, or for paying contract termination costs.”  Funding
for U.S. military operations overseas was set at at about $115
billion.  ‘Ill-Conceived’  The president criticized as “ill-conceived” the
requirement that suspected terrorists identified as members of
al-Qaeda be held in military detention. He said he retains
“full and unencumbered ability to waive any military custody
requirement.”  “I reject any approach that would mandate military custody
where  law enforcement  provides the best method of incapacitating
a terrorist threat,” he said.  The administration worked to modify the original language
on detentions, saying Congress was inhibiting intelligence-
gathering and investigations.  Presidential signing statements, which date to James Monroe
in 1822, are comments by the president on how the administration
intends to implement a law. Obama has issued 18 such statements,
according to the American Presidency Project at the  University
of California  in  Santa Barbara .  Executive Authority  Regarding a section on the executive branch’s authority to
detain suspected terrorists, including U.S. citizens captured on
the battlefield, Obama said he wanted “to clarify that my
administration will not authorize the indefinite military
detention without trial of American citizens.”  He argued that the 2001 Authorization for Use of Military
Force act, as well as rulings by the  Supreme Court , have already
conferred authority to the executive branch to make temporary
detentions.  “This section breaks no new ground and is unnecessary,”
he said.  The law’s new sanctions targeting Iran’s central bank would
complicate the international purchases of Iran’s crude oil,
which could disrupt oil markets and lead to a spike in price.  About 15.5 million barrels of oil a day, or a sixth of
global consumption, pass through the  Strait of Hormuz  between
Iran and Oman at the mouth of the  Persian Gulf , according to the
U.S. Energy Department. Crude oil for February delivery dropped
85 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $98.83 a barrel this week on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  on Jan. 30. Futures are up 8.2
percent this year.  Waiving Sanctions  As with the provision on detainees, the White House worked
with Congress on the Iran section to make sure it has
flexibility to implement the sanctions, according to an
administration official, who requested anonymity. The law
includes language that allows the president to waive the
sanctions if he determines they would threaten national
security.  The official said that the law preserves the
administration’s ability to pursue its dual-track approach to
Iran, with both the specter of increased sanctions and the
option of more positive engagement with the U.S.  A second administration official, also speaking on the
condition of anonymity, said that that White House was working
to ensure that  oil prices  remained stable, without specifying
what steps they were taking. The official said the
administration did not anticipate a price spike in response to
the law, which gives the president flexibility and, in the case
of oil purchases, 180 days, to impose the sanctions.  The  U.S. Senate  approved the  final bill  Dec. 15 by a vote
of 86-13 and the House approved it a day earlier, 283-136. The
bill is H.R. 1540.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Honolulu at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  