-- Obama Says He Is ‘Hopeful’ for 2012, Greater Economic Growth in the U.S.
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2011-12-31T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/obama-says-he-is-hopeful-for-2012-greater-economic-growth.html
President  Barack Obama , saying he’s
“hopeful” for 2012 after a year that brought the beginnings of
an economic recovery, called on Congress to extend a payroll tax
cut for a full year to help Americans struggling to improve
their lives.  “I’m hopeful because of what we saw right before
Christmas, when members of Congress came together to prevent a
tax hike for 160 million Americans -- saving a typical family
about $40 in every paycheck,” Obama said in his weekly radio
and Internet address from Honolulu, where he is on vacation with
his family. “And I expect Congress to finish the job by
extending these provisions through the end of 2012.”  Before Obama left for  Hawaii , he signed a two-month  payroll
tax (FFSTEMPL) -cut extension, preventing a cut in take-home pay after the
end of this year. Congress will return to Washington in January
and attempt to settle a debate about how to pay for the year-
long extension. Senate Democrats have pushed for a surtax on
million-dollar incomes, a proposal Republicans have rejected.  The two-month, last-minute agreement capped a year of
partisan battles that threatened the shutdown of the federal
government in April and a default on government debt obligations
over the summer.  Yesterday, White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  said Obama
would delay a request to increase the U.S. debt limit by $1.2
trillion to give lawmakers more time to return to  Washington  and
register their concerns with the increase, as allowed in the
Budget Control Act.  ‘Crippling Blow’  Taking stock of 2011, Obama said “we dealt a crippling
blow to al-Qaeda and made America more secure.” He didn’t
specifically mention the killing of  Osama bin Laden .  “We stood by our friends and allies around the world
through natural disasters and revolutions,” he said of a year
during which dictatorships fell in North Africa and a tsunami
devastated  Japan .  “And we began to see signs of economic
recovery here at home, even as too many Americans are still
struggling to get ahead.”  Georgia Senator  Johnny Isakson , delivering the Republican
weekly address, said that his party’s “No. 1 goal” would be to
make it easier for small businesses to create jobs.  “We’ll accomplish this by focusing on three things:
fundamental  tax reform , regulatory reform and energy security,”
he said. “In 2012, Republicans will continue to fight for much-
needed tax reform for all American families and small
businesses.”  ‘We Can’t Wait’  Drawing on the “We Can’t Wait” language used by Obama as
part of his push to use executive action to spur job growth,
Isakson said, “Americans cannot wait until after the November
election.”  “They need us to do our job and do it right now to create
an economic climate that makes it easier to put people back to
work,” he said.  After his vacation, Obama plans to visit  Cleveland , Ohio,
on Jan. 4, a day after  Iowa ’s first-in-the-nation nominating
caucuses, which could winnow the Republican presidential field.  “We intend to ramp up the pace of ‘We Can’t Wait’
initiatives” in the new year, White House spokesman Earnest
told reporters in Hawaii. “This will reinforce the contrast
with a Congress that is not getting very much done on behalf of
the American people.”  In addition to lowering the payroll tax workers pay on
their first $106,000 of income to 4.2 percent from 6.2 percent,
Obama will press Congress to pass portions of the $447 billion
American Jobs Act that he submitted to Congress in September,
such as infrastructure spending, Earnest said.  The president will also urge the Senate to confirm former
 Ohio  Attorney General  Richard Cordray  to run the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, he said.  “We’ve got some difficult debates and some tough fights to
come,” Obama said. “We are at a make-or-break moment for the
middle class.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Honolulu at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  