-- Paul Sees Top-2 Iowa Finish While Wary of Rivals (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2011-12-31T00:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/paul-sees-top-2-iowa-finish-while-wary-of-rivals-transcript-.html
U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of
 Texas , speaking an interview airing this weekend on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” predicted he’d
finish first or second in next week’s Iowa caucuses and offered
qualified praise for Mitt Romney while saying he likely couldn’t
support Newt Gingrich as the Republican presidential nominee.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the program in Sioux Center, Iowa. And
our guest is one of the front-runners in the Iowa caucuses,
Republican Ron Paul of Texas. Congressman, thank you for being
with us.  REPRESENTATIVE RON PAUL: Thank you for having me.  HUNT: You are in the crosshairs.  Jon Huntsman  and The Union
Leader are attacking you in  New Hampshire .  Michele Bachmann  and
 Rick Santorum  are assailing what they call your dangerous
foreign policy in Iowa. Is all this taking a toll?  PAUL: I don’t think so because I’m - I talk about this and
I say I’m a strict constitutionalist. I want to balance the
budget. I want to cut spending. I don’t want to go to war unless
we declare the wars. I want to protect civil liberties. And I
figure, what’s dangerous about that? That seems strange that
that’s dangerous to obey the Constitution and always vote
against big spending and big government. Sounds like
conservatives should agree with me on that.  HUNT: You’ve been at this now for a while. You know,
understand politics. You’re actually taking a couple days off
this weekend, which is almost never done before the  Iowa 
caucuses. You’ve said you’re doing well in Iowa. Everybody
accepts that. Candidly, do you expect to win on Tuesday?  PAUL: I really don’t know.  HUNT: What do you think?  PAUL: Well, I’m going to come in I think first or second,
but I just don’t ever make those kind of bold predictions, I’m
going to win, I’m going to - because I really don’t know. But if
- if I did come in fifth or sixth that would be a real shocker.
I’m going to do well, but to predict, I just don’t know.  HUNT: Let’s say, if you should come in first, all
Republican candidates are for cutting spending. They’re for
reducing taxes. They’re for eliminating Obamacare. What message
would a Paul victory send?  PAUL: Well, that I’m serious. Because they haven’t proposed
any cuts. Nobody in  Washington , Republicans or Democrats or the
other candidates, there’s no serious cuts. They’re only talking
about token cuts on proposed increases 10 years out because they
all accept baseline budgeting. I want to actually cut. I want to
cut a trillion dollars.  HUNT: So you think the message would be that the others are
too tepid?  PAUL: Well, that they - that the people saw through it.
That they’re part of the status quo and they didn’t offer
anything differently. Foreign policy would be same. The Federal
Reserve policy, the same. Spending policies are the same.
Deficits don’t matter. It would be all the same thing.  HUNT: And that’s true of the other - other six candidates?  PAUL: I think so. I don’t see any actual cuts.  HUNT: One of your rivals,  Newt Gingrich , in criticizing you
said your views were offensive to every “decent” American and
he couldn’t support you if you were the nominee. Could you
support him if he were the nominee?  PAUL: I’d probably have trouble. Because I’ve sort of been
asked that question, and I would say I’d have to see how they -
how the candidate comes around to accepting his views. If the
policies of the  Republican Party  are same as the Democrat Party
and they don’t want to change anything on foreign policy, they
don’t want to cut anything, they don’t want to audit the Fed and
find out about monetary policy, they don’t want to have actual
change in government, that is a problem for me.  HUNT: You would have trouble supporting Gingrich. Does it
offend you when he says that decent Americans -  PAUL: After you’ve been in this business for a while you
don’t have time to be offended. Of course, nobody likes it.
People - you have a - you have a conscience. People don’t like
to be attacked. But to be offended and upset, you just sort of
shrug it off and say it’s politics as usual. Some people write
it off and say they didn’t do it - they weren’t worried about my
views until they thought I was on top - top of the pecking
order.  HUNT: Congressman, you have consistently said that you have
no intention or interest in a third party or independent
candidacy. Is there anything that could happen in the months
ahead that could conceivably cause you to at least rethink that?  PAUL: Not really. I’ve never been an absolutist and say
absolutely might or absolutely will, but I have no intention of
doing. I can’t imagine it happening.  HUNT: But if they - if the party ignored you and didn’t
nominate you, would that - and didn’t pay attention to your
views?  PAUL: Right now I would say that it doesn’t - I don’t think
about it because, just like you pointed out, we’re doing pretty
well in the polls. So I’d better concentrate on the polls rather
than on something like that.  HUNT: You said a minute ago that you would have trouble
supporting Newt Gingrich. You’ve also criticized some of your
other opponents, including Mr. Gingrich, Michele Bachmann, Rick
Santorum,  Rick Perry . But in researching this, you’ve almost
never criticized your co-leader in Iowa,  Mitt Romney . Why?  PAUL: Some of the ads have. We’ve -  HUNT: But not like - not like Gingrich.  PAUL: We’ve accused him of this vicious term that he flip
flops. So we - we have - we have done that.  HUNT: That’s not as bad as being a serial hypocrite.  PAUL: Well, we could call him a serial flip flopper then.  HUNT: Do you find Mitt Romney less objectionable than some
of the others or no difference?  PAUL: I think he has a decorum that’s different. He’s a
little bit more diplomatic, I think, in the way he handles
things. I don’t think he has convictions that come close to
mine, but I think - I think he probably understands how the
market works as a businessman a little bit better than a guy
like Gingrich does and the people who have never been in
business. So - but I see him - I put them all in the same
category. They all are part of the status quo.  HUNT: But you said you would have trouble supporting
Gingrich. Could the same thing be said of Romney?  PAUL: I think so. I’ve said that about all the candidates.
I’d want to know what evolves and what kind of platform they
have and whether by that time they’re willing to say, “Yes, it
is time to come home from - home from  Afghanistan .” Matter of
fact, Mitt said that one time in our first debate and I
wondered, I thought, “Boy, he sounds like maybe he should bring
troops home.” But then again, I think he decided, well, you
have to be more hawkish in the Republican primaries, so he
hasn’t talked that way again. So I’d wait and see.  HUNT: Let me ask you a couple questions about the
controversies regarding some of the bigoted rantings in
newsletters, which you explained was others that you didn’t -
that you don’t associate with. But you did author a book one
time that said that people who were sexually harassed in the
workplace ought to simply quit their jobs. Do you believe there
should be no legal recourse for people who are sexually
harassed?  PAUL: Well, maybe. But people - that’s an - that’s a vague,
vague thing, sexual harassment, and these are abused. I think
it’s - it shows real bad behavior. I’m not sure. If I was
working in a place and people were ridiculing me and they were -
that was the boss, I don’t think I’d want to work there. But I
don’t see - I don’t think there’s any place for the average
person who feels that they have been - a bad joke was told in
front of them and they were embarrassed and their feelings were
hurt that it’s a federal offense, that you have a federal law
dealing with this. I think political correctness is - is
something that has gone - gone wild. It’s out of control.  HUNT: Let me ask you this, Congressman. People - you are
not a bigot. I think most anyone who knows you will say that.
But what upsets some people is that while you disassociate
yourself from the anti-Semitic and the racial hate, there’s no
sense of outrage of revulsion. Are you outraged by some of those
things people said?  PAUL: But I take it in the context - I’m outraged by so
many things. I’m outraged by some of our foreign policy, but I
also have to take it in the context of what I can’t change I
can’t do much about. You have to sort of understand that. So I’m
outraged by an awfully lot. I’m outraged by our economic system,
which is sticking it to the middle class and bailing out the
rich. I’m outraged with our foreign policy that is destroying
lives and undermining our - our national defense.  There’s a lot of things I’m outraged about, but - and I
want to do something about it. And that’s why I talk about
monetary policy. But things - personality wise and character
assassinations, yeah, I’m annoyed with it. I don’t like it. But
all I can do - in civil liberties, I’m the best civil
libertarian ever to run - running in recent years because I’m
condemning the - the - the unfairness of the enforcement of our
drug laws and -  HUNT: Speaking of liberties, we have to get you to your
Sioux Center town hall. Congressman, thank you so much for being
with us.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<610778.5983423.2.1.95.14779.25>#
 