-- Treasurer Swan Sees Australia Economy Weathering Global Slowdown
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2011-12-31T00:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/treasurer-swan-sees-australia-economy-weathering-global-slowdown.html
Australia ’s economy is well placed
to weather a global slowdown, and China has ample “firepower”
to stimulate growth if  Europe ’s fiscal troubles worsen,
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  told the Weekend Australian newspaper.  “We are in a position to maximize the opportunities that
will flow from the strongest part of the global economy -- the
Asia-Pacific,” Swan said in the  interview . “We can’t be blind
to the fact that things could suddenly worsen if there were some
sort of systemic shock elsewhere in the globe, but my core view
is that we are in a far stronger position to handle it.”  China’s manufacturing contracted for a second month in
December as global growth faltered, a purchasing managers’ index
released yesterday indicated. The index was at 48.7 in December,
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  China  is Australia’s  biggest export market (AUITXCHI) , with shipments
reaching a record A$7.25 billion ($7.4 billion) in October,
according to government figures. The People’s Bank of China may
cut lenders’ reserve requirements before a Lunar New Year
holiday starting Jan. 23 that will fuel demand for cash,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “They have plenty of policy firepower to respond if
they’re adversely affected by Europe,” the newspaper quoted
Swan as saying. “We’re right to be concerned about particular
vulnerabilities in the Chinese economy, but every piece of
analysis I get gives me confidence they will continue to manage
whatever domestic challenges they have in a prudent way.”  Local Currency  The Australian currency rose 0.7 percent to $1.0209 in New
York trading late yesterday, ending the year 0.2 percent lower
for the first calendar-year decline since 2008. The so-called
Aussie sank 9.9 percent in the third quarter before gaining 5.7
percent in the final three months of the year.  To counter weaker consumer and business confidence, the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia cut the overnight cash rate target a
quarter percentage point in November and again this month, to
its current level of 4.25 percent. That compares with benchmark
rates near zero in the U.S. and  Japan , and the euro region’s 1
percent.  Swan said Australia will start 2012 with an economy that’s
7 percent larger than it was before the 2008-09 financial
crisis, the newspaper said. The  U.S. economy  has made up its
lost ground, while Europe stills lags behind, he said in the
interview.  “I am pessimistic but realistic about Europe and hopeful
about the U.S.,” he told the newspaper. “But every trend I see
in the global economy is that the medium and longer term works
in our favor.”  While Australia ranks 52nd in the world in terms of
population, its gross domestic product is the 13th largest,
according to the newspaper.  “We are a large economy in the area of the world that is
growing the fastest and has the most potential in the future to
grow on the back of productivity improvement and  population
growth ,” the newspaper quoted Swan as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  