-- Rutgers Runs Past Iowa State 27-13 in Second Yankee Stadium Pinstripe Bowl
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2011-12-31T05:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/rutgers-runs-past-iowa-state-27-13-in-second-yankee-stadium-pinstripe-bowl.html
Sophomore running back Jawan Jamison
rushed for 131 yards and two touchdowns as  Rutgers University 
defeated  Iowa State University  27-13 in the second annual
Pinstripe Bowl at Yankee Stadium in  New York .  The Scarlet Knights’ defense held the Cyclones (6-7)
scoreless for a 42-minute stretch from the first to fourth
quarters as the team got its second win yesterday at the Bronx
stadium this season in front of a crowd of 38,328.  “This is a defense that is going to hurt you on third
down,” Iowa State head coach Paul Rhoads said after the game.
“But we had our opportunities and then failed to execute.”  The sixth-worst running team in college football’s top
division this season, Rutgers (9-4) rushed for 173 yards for its
fifth bowl victory since the school defeated Princeton 6-4 in
the first intercollegiate football game in 1869.  It was the fourth college football game, and second
postseason contest, held at the $1.5 billion home of the  New
York Yankees , which opened in 2009. Rutgers beat Army 27-12 on
Nov. 12 in the venue’s first football game of the season.  More than 40,000 seats were sold for the game, with both
schools selling out their allotment, Yankees President Randy Levine said in a news conference before the game. He said the
bowl was expected to turn a profit for the second year in a row.  ‘College Town’  “For all the people who don’t believe that  New York City 
is a college town, we have two years of evidence that it is,”
Levine said. “There is no better place to have a bowl game than
New York City this time of year.”  Rutgers, whose New Jersey campus is 47 miles from the
stadium, took a 7-6 lead, its first of the game, with 12
minutes, 39 seconds remaining in the second quarter on a one-
yard touchdown run by Jamison. The team added to the lead two
minutes later on a 21-yard field goal by senior San San Te and
never trailed again, winning as it had all year with defense.  The Scarlet Knights, who ranked 12th in the country in
fewest points allowed per game (18.8) and yards allowed per game
(311.5) during the regular season, held the Cyclones out of the
end zone for the first 50 minutes while recording three sacks,
two interceptions and returning a fumble inside the Iowa State
5-yard line. Iowa State took a 6-0 lead with 7:35 left in the
first quarter and did not score again until 10:00 remaining in
the contest.  Rushing Game  Coming in, the Rutgers ground game was ranked 115th in
college football’s 120-team top division with 91.5 yards per
game. Behind Jamison, sophomore fullback  Michael Burton  and
sophomore quarterback Chas Dodd, the Scarlet Knights rushed for
almost twice that amount and held possession for 34:35.  Iowa State took a 3-0 lead less than two minutes into the
game on a 40-yard field goal by Zach Guyer, who added a 45-yard
field goal with 7:35 remaining in the first quarter -- the start
of a 42:35 Iowa State scoring drought that ended with 10:00 left
in the fourth quarter on a 20-yard touchdown run by junior
running back Jeff Woody.  Sophomore quarterback Jared Barnett, who made the sixth
start of his Cyclones career, was replaced in the second quarter
by junior Steele Jantz. The Cyclones had 311 yards of total
offense and were 2-of-13 on third-down conversions.  Third-Down Conversions  “The third down defense was outstanding” Rutgers’ head
coach Greg Schiano said. “We took the ball away three times and
didn’t give the ball away at all. That’s how we win.”  Iowa State dropped its final three games of the season
after rallying from a 17-point deficit to beat then-No. 2
Oklahoma State 37-31 in double overtime on Oct. 18.  The original Yankee Stadium hosted 185 college football
games in its 85-year history, including a 1946 game between
 Notre Dame  and Navy that featured four Heisman Trophy winners --
Doc Blanchard, Glenn Davis, Johnny Lujack and Leon Hart.  Scarlet Knights junior wide receiver Mohamed Sanu, who
finished the regular season with a school- and Big East-record
109 receptions, had six catches for 62 yards. Sanu has one more
season of eligibility and has not yet announced his intention
for next year.  Dodd was 10-for-17 for 176 yards and a touchdown in his
eighth start of the season, including an 86-yard touchdown pass
to sophomore receiver Brandon Coleman in the fourth quarter to
end the scoring. Senior linebacker Khaseem Greene, who led the
conference with 127 tackles and was named the Big East co-
Defensive Player of the Year, left in the fourth quarter with an
injury.  Following the game, Schiano dedicated the victory to Eric
LeGrand, a Scarlet Knights defensive lineman who was paralyzed
last year in a game against Army. The dedication was followed by
a chant of “Eric, Eric,” from the crowd.  Rutgers has now won its last five bowl games, dating to
2006. The Scarlet Knights also won a bushel of Iowa sweet corn,
offered by Ames Mayor Ann Campbell in a friendly wager between
politicians in the two schools’ hometowns.  “That’s who we want to be,” Schiano said in a news
conference after the game. “It’s Jamison’s running and the
offensive line’s blocking. The players did a heck of a job with
the plan and Jawan ran the ball the way that we asked him to.”  -- Editor: Rob Gloster, Nancy Kercheval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams at Yankee Stadium at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  