-- Singapore GDP Slowed to 4.8% as Lee Predicts ‘Difficult’ Global Conditions
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2011-12-31T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/singapore-says-growth-slowed-to-4-8-in-2011-amid-difficult-global-economy.html
Singapore ’s growth will weaken
further this year after slowing in 2011, constrained by a
“difficult” global environment and government efforts to cut
foreign-worker inflow, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said.  Gross domestic product (SGDYTY)  rose 4.8 percent last year, Lee, 59,
said in his New Year message released in Singapore yesterday.
That compares with the government’s earlier forecast of a 5
percent increase and a 14.5 percent pace in 2010. The economy
will expand 1 percent to 3 percent in 2012, Lee said,
reiterating a trade-ministry estimate.  “Debt problems in Europe are far from solved,” Lee said.
This year “looks like being difficult for the global economy. As
a small, open country, Singapore will inevitably be affected,”
he said.  Singapore, which uses the island’s dollar to manage
inflation, said in October it will slow gains in its currency as
it joined Asian nations in moving to shield their economies from
faltering growth in  Europe  and  China . At the same time, the
island has sought to counter a voter backlash against a surge in
immigration by promising to damp the influx of foreigners, a
move Lee says will curb expansion.  “The extent of the soft landing in China, the pace of
recovery in the U.S. and the downside risks in the  euro zone  are
the three key factors that underscore Singapore’s outlook for
2012,” said  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd.
in Singapore. Slowing the inflow of foreign workers will pose a
“constraint” on growth as it raises business costs, he said.  Economic Contraction  The growth rate Lee estimates for 2011 implies that the
fourth-quarter contraction in the economy “will be more severe
than what most people in the market expected,” Seah said.  The economy probably shrank an annualized 5 percent in the
fourth quarter from the previous three-month period, according
to the median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The
trade ministry will release the GDP report on Jan. 3.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks slumped 17 percent
last year as concern Europe’s protracted sovereign-debt crisis
will weigh on the region’s growth halted a two-year rally in
equities. Singapore’s benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  dropped by a
similar amount, and its currency weakened 1 percent against the
 U.S. dollar .  Singapore, located at the southern end of the 600-mile
(965-kilometer) Malacca Strait and home to the world’s second-
busiest container port, has remained vulnerable to fluctuations
in overseas demand for manufactured goods even as the government
boosts the financial services and tourism industries to cut its
reliance on exports.  General Election  Lee’s ruling People’s Action Party won the general election
in May with the smallest margin of popular votes since
independence in 1965 as citizens expressed discontent over the
rising cost of living and competition with foreigners for jobs
and housing.  Singaporeans also voted for a new president in August and
former Deputy Prime Minister Tony Tan, who was backed by Lee and
several ministers, won the largely ceremonial post with a margin
of about 0.3 percent over his nearest rival.  “Having made a significant political transition, we are
all now adjusting to new norms in a changed environment,” the
prime minister  said  yesterday. “We are working hard to tackle
our immediate challenges.”  Since the general election, the government has tightened
rules on overseas labor and made it more expensive for
foreigners to buy property in Singapore.  Property Curbs  The island imposed additional taxes on purchases of private
residential property in December to curb excessive investment
that it said may spur economic and banking-industry risks.
Foreigners and corporate entities will have to pay an additional
10 percent stamp duty, the government said Dec. 7.  “The government is committed to keeping homes affordable
to all Singaporeans,” Lee said yesterday, adding that more
public housing will be made available in 2012. “In the private
 property market , the additional buyer’s stamp duty will moderate
capital inflows and foreign demand, and help to stabilize
prices.”  The country, ranked by the  World Bank  as the easiest place
to do business, has cut taxes in recent years to spur investment,
prompting companies to hire hundreds of thousands of foreigners
to fill positions. More than a third of the 5.2 million
population is made up of foreigners and permanent residents, and
about half of all new jobs created in 2010 went to workers from
overseas.  The island is tightening the number of foreign workers
entering the country to a “more sustainable” rate, Lee said
yesterday. The government announced in August that it would
raise salary thresholds and require better educational
qualifications for some non-Singaporean workers.  “Companies are already feeling the pinch,” especially
small and medium-sized enterprises, Lee said. “Singaporeans
will feel it too, because many foreign workers do jobs that
serve citizens. Admitting fewer foreign workers also means
forgoing business opportunities and accepting slower growth.
This is one reason why we only expect 1 percent to 3 percent
growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  