-- U.S. Chief Justice Offers Confidence in Recusals
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2011-12-31T23:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/u-s-chief-justice-offers-confidence-in-recusals.html
U.S. Chief Justice  John Roberts  said
he has “complete confidence” in the ability of his  Supreme
Court  colleagues to decide whether to remove themselves from
cases when conflicts arise.  Justices Elena Kagan and  Clarence Thomas  have been urged to
recuse themselves from consideration of the health-care overhaul
signed into law by President  Barack Obama . The Supreme Court is
scheduled to hear arguments about the law’s constitutionality in
March.  “I have complete confidence in the capability of my
colleagues to determine when recusal is warranted,” Roberts
said in a 16-page year-end report released today, without naming
Kagan or Thomas or citing the health-care debate specifically.
“They are jurists of exceptional integrity and experience whose
character and fitness have been examined through a rigorous
appointment and confirmation process.”  Republican lawmakers and interest groups have said Kagan
has a possible conflict of interest if she advised the Obama
administration about the health-care legislation while she was
solicitor general, the position she held when nominated to the
court in 2010. Democrats have said Thomas should recuse himself
because his wife,  Virginia , has worked for groups that oppose
the law. Neither justice has indicated any intent to step aside
in the case.  Roberts said there is an important difference between lower
federal courts, where judges “can freely substitute for one
another” when a recusal occurs, and the Supreme Court, which
“consists of nine members who always sit together, and if a
justice withdraws from a case, the court must sit without its
full membership.”  Convenience Not Enough  “A justice accordingly cannot withdraw from a case as a
matter of convenience or simply to avoid controversy,” Roberts
said.  Roberts, 56, who was appointed to the Supreme Court in 2005
by President  George W. Bush , said he was grateful for the
“selfless commitment to public service in the face of demanding
dockets and tight budgets” among federal judges and court
staff. He also said he was grateful to Congress for its
“careful consideration of the judiciary’s financial needs.”  He said federal bankruptcy filings declined 8 percent in
2011 from a year earlier, to just below 1.5 million petitions,
the first decrease since 2007. Bankruptcy filings increased 14
percent in 2010.  There were 78,440 criminal cases filed in federal courts in
2011, about the same as 2010, and the number of criminal
defendants increased 3 percent to 102,931, a record high.  Criminal immigration cases decreased 3 percent, the first
drop since 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  