-- Wisconsin Prosecutor Asks State Court to Void Union Law Ruling
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 2011-12-31T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-31/wisconsin-prosecutor-asks-state-court-to-void-union-law-ruling.html
A Wisconsin prosecutor said the
state’s highest court should throw out its June ruling upholding
legislation curbing public employees’ collective-bargaining
rights because one justice failed to recuse himself from the
case.  Ismael Ozanne,  district attorney  in Dane County, which
includes Madison, the state capital, alleged in court filings
yesterday that Wisconsin Supreme Court Justice Michael Gableman
received free legal work in an ethics case from a  law firm ,
Michael Best & Friedrich, that assisted state officials in the
union law case.  The “unusual” fee arrangement wasn’t disclosed at the
time, and Gableman should have recused himself from the case,
Ozanne said in filings. He should be disqualified from the case
and the high court’s 4-3 decision in June upholding the law
should be thrown out, Ozanne said in documents filed with the
Wisconsin Supreme Court.  “ Abraham Lincoln  wrote that ‘a lawyer’s time and advice
are his stock in trade,’” Ozanne, a Democrat, said in the
filing. “Justice Gableman paid for none of that time or any of
that advice, nor does it appear he or MBF intended to do so.
Reasonable, well-informed people would reasonably question
Justice Gableman’s ability to be impartial under the facts
presented here.”  A call to Gableman about the filing wasn’t immediately
returned yesterday. Attorney Eric McLeod of Michael Best &
Friedrich didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking
comment about the filing.  Exceeded Her Authority  The Wisconsin Supreme Court ruled in June that  Dane County 
Circuit Court Judge Maryann Sumi exceeded her authority when she
issued a May 26 order invalidating the measure after she had
found it was created in apparent violation of the state’s open
meetings law.  The legislation signed into law by Governor  Scott Walker 
requires annual recertification votes for public employees’
union representation and makes their payment of membership dues
voluntary. Firefighters and police officers are exempt.  Under the new law, state workers would contribute 5.8
percent of their salaries toward pensions and pay 12.6 percent
of their health-insurance costs.  Democrats and organized labor opposed the legislation as an
attack on worker rights. Opponents protested inside and outside
the state capital for almost four weeks.  The case is State v. Circuit Court for Dane County,
2011AP765, Wisconsin Supreme Court (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net :
Marie Rohde in Milwaukee at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  