-- Abe Gets Yellow Card for Growth Strategy, Ex-BOJ Director Says
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-06-10T04:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/abe-gets-yellow-card-for-growth-strategy-ex-boj-director-says.html
Financial markets may put more
pressure on Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to revive  Japan ’s economy,
after his disappointing growth plan pushed stocks to a two-month
low and the yen higher, a former  Bank of Japan  official said.  “For now it’s just a yellow card but it’s possible there
will be a red card and stocks will decline more,” Hideo Hayakawa, 58, a former BOJ executive director who oversaw the
financial system until March. “His failure to announce a solid
growth strategy triggered these market reactions and the
question is whether he will properly acknowledge this fact,”
Hayakawa, who is now a  senior executive fellow  at Fujitsu
Research Institute, said in an interview in  Tokyo  on June 7.  Abe on June 5 outlined his economic growth strategy, the
third of three arrows along with monetary and fiscal stimulus in
his Abenomics policies aimed at ending 15 years of deflation in
the world’s third-biggest economy. An absence of steps to free
up the labor market and a delay in implementation invited
disappointment from investors, triggering a decline in stocks
and a rise in the yen.  After next month’s election, Abe must focus on the economy
and supporting businesses through deregulation or the stock
market could continue to decline, Hayakawa said. The government
needs to win the vote before it can consider labor market
reform, ruling party lawmaker and Abe ally Kozo Yamamoto said in
an interview last week.  The government will work on a second round of growth
measures in autumn, Abe said yesterday on a NHK television
program, with bold tax cuts for  capital investment  and reduction
in regulations.  Unprecedented Easing  An unprecedented monetary easing under Bank of Japan
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda and increased government spending have
helped bolster  consumer confidence  and wages.  The economy  grew 4.1 percent  in the first quarter a second
reading of data showed today, as the government revised up
capital investment and the contribution of private inventories.  The Topix index was up 4 percent today at 12:50 p.m in
Tokyo after dropping almost 7 percent last week,  the third week
of falls . The index is up almost 28 percent this year, having
fallen 14 percent from its May 22 high, its strongest level
since August 2008.  The yen was at 98.12 per dollar after touching 94.99 last
week, the strongest in two months.  Temporary Adjustment  “The currency will fall and shares will rise” as long as
the BOJ’s easing is implemented, said Yamamoto, as this
increases the  money supply . The current foreign exchange markets
movements are a “temporary adjustment,” he said.  “Recent market developments make it clear that the key for
Abenomics is not Kuroda but Abe,” said Hayakawa. Abe has gained
popularity because of his promises to boost the world’s third-largest economy and he should use this political capital wisely,
Hayakawa said, as it takes power to tackle labor market
deregulation and other reforms.  Kuroda is holding a two-day policy meeting starting today,
at which the nine board members may discuss steps to calm
volatility in the bond market, people familiar with the matter
told  Bloomberg News .  “The BOJ is gambling on massive easing so it shouldn’t be
swayed by recent volatility in the  bond market . Yields around
0.8 percent or 0.9 percent are totally fine,” said Hayakawa.
“It’s still low as not so many people believe the BOJ will hit
the target but once they do, yields will go higher.”  Bond Volatility  The benchmark 10-year bond yield was at 0.84 percent at
1:07 p.m. in Tokyo.  Kuroda pledged in April to double the money supply in the
economy to achieve 2 percent inflation, with a time horizon of
two years. Hayakawa, who was also chief BOJ economist until
2007, said he hasn’t seen “any sign at all” that the bank can
meet the goal.  Only one of 40 economists expects Kuroda can meet a 2
percent price target in two years, according to a survey by the
Japan Center for  Economic Research  released last week. Consumer
prices will rise 1 percent in the fiscal year starting April
2015, according to the average estimate of the economists
surveyed in the report.  Before Abenomics, Abe was known for backing the revision of
Article 9 of the Japanese constitution, the basis of Japan’s
postwar pacifism.  “The biggest concern among investors is if Abe will use
his political popularity to revise the constitution after the
election” in July, Hayakawa said. If that becomes reality,
investors will think they “must escape as quickly as possible”
from Japanese markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  