-- Africa Has Strongest Growth in Sovereign Funds, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-06-10T00:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/africa-has-strongest-growth-in-sovereign-funds-jpmorgan-says.html
Africa  is experiencing the strongest
growth in new sovereign wealth funds in the world as the
continent’s nations are amassing commodity revenues and foreign-exchange reserves, according to JPMorgan Asset Management Inc.  During the past two years, 15 state funds have been set up
or are being considered in Africa, Patrick Thomson, the global
head of sovereigns at JPMorgan Asset said. The region will see
more starting in the coming years, he added.  With commodity prices rising, African countries are putting
their surpluses into government-owned funds designed to manage a
country’s wealth for future generations.  Angola  set up its $5
billion state fund in October, Uganda said in April it plans to
create a sovereign fund, and Nigeria, Africa’s biggest oil
producer, inaugurated its $1 billion fund eight months ago.  “We expect the number in Africa to grow further over the
coming years,” Thomson, 45, said in a telephone interview from
Hong Kong on June 6. There are two main reasons why more state
funds are being set up in Africa, “it’s the growth in commodity
prices, and it’s the growth in foreign exchange reserves.”  Africa is catching up with many Asian and Middle-East
countries that already have a state fund, Thomson said. Latin
America will see the second-strongest growth in the number of
new funds, he said, without elaborating.  Commodity Rally  Thomson, who advises state entities like wealth funds,
central banks and pension funds, declined to name particular
countries as candidates for new state funds, citing client
confidentiality.  The annual average price of copper has more than quadrupled
over the past decade, while the average cost of oil surged
almost four times, bolstering the assets of African state funds.
The average price of gold, for which South Africa is the
continent’s biggest producer, surged more than 300 percent since
2003.  Africa’s biggest sovereign wealth fund is  Algeria ’s $77.2
billion Revenue Regulation Fund, according to the  Sovereign
Wealth Fund Institute . It is followed by the $65 billion  Libyan
Investment Authority  and Botswana’s $6.9 billion Pula Fund.  Tanzania, holder of the second-largest natural-gas
resources in East Africa, is considering starting a state-owned
investment vehicle using income earned from the fuel, President
Jakaya Kikwete said in August.  Zimbabwe ’s government in December said it created a
sovereign wealth fund after it compelled foreign-owned companies
to sell 51 percent stakes to Zimbabweans under its
indigenization program.  More Funds  Mozambique is mulling starting an investment pool,
Massimiliano Castelli, head of strategy at Global Sovereign
Markets at  UBS AG (UBSN) , said in March. Sierra Leone’s president
Ernest Bai Koroma proposed setting up a state fund with the
proceeds from the mining industry, Reuters reported in October.  Sovereign funds around the world are currently shifting
their investments from the developed world into emerging-market
assets, Thomson said. They are buying mostly debt and equity in
public markets in developing regions, he added without
quantifying.  State funds are also increasingly joining forces in their
investments, partly investing in alternative assets such as
infrastructure and real estate including airports and utility
companies, Thomson said.  Russia, China  The wealth funds of Russia and  China  in June 2012 started a
joint private-equity fund mainly targeting transactions in
Russian forestry, logistics and agriculture.  Sovereign funds’ investments in alternative assets may face
less competition from other investors, including pension funds
and insurers in developed markets, that face increasing
constraints due to tightening regulations, Thomson said.  European Union regulators are setting up new rules, known
as Solvency II and aimed at making insurers safer by harmonizing
the way they allocate capital against the risks they take.  “Solvency II is making insurance companies change their
investment behavior in order to meet regulation,” he said.
“That provides the opportunity for sovereign funds to invest in
assets that insurance companies used to invest in and now
perhaps they are finding it more difficult under new
regulation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  