-- Air France, EasyJet, Lufthansa Cut Flights as Controllers Strike
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-10T14:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/air-france-easyjet-lufthansa-cut-flights-as-controllers-strike.html
Air France-KLM (AF)  Group,  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) ,
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and other airlines serving  France  will cut
flights as a three-day strike by French air traffic controllers
begins tomorrow.  Air France SA expects to transport all passengers with
tickets for longhaul travel by canceling journeys in markets
where travelers can be accommodated on other flights, spokesman
Herve Erscheler said by telephone. Those with tickets for
flights within France or to  Europe  should seek to postpone their
journey, he said.  France’s civil air authority has asked airlines to cut by
half the number of scheduld aircraft movements so flights can be
managed by fewer controllers. The strike is set to begin
tomorrow morning and end on June 14 at 5:59 a.m.  Air France won’t have information on which flights are
canceled until tomorrow morning, the airline said.  EasyJet said on its  website  that about 128 flights will be
canceled each day. Passengers will be advised by e-mail of any
cancellations and given the option of a refund or a transfer to
another flight. EasyJet cancellations include 17 to and from
Nice, 11 to and from Toulouse, and 22 to and from Paris’s
Charles de Gaulle airport.  British Airways Plc and Lufthansa also announced
cancellations.  Lufthansa  currently lists 125 canceled flights on
its website, almost all of which go to or from Paris, Toulouse,
Lyon, Nice or Marseille.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s largest low-fare airline,
said 102 flights would be affected tomorrow and called on French
authorities to intervene to end further disruptions. The right
of air traffic controllers to strike should be revoked, the
airline said in a statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  