-- AirAsia X, Nok Air to Raise Funds in IPO Amid Boom in Travel
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h ,   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-06-10T10:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/airasia-x-to-raise-up-to-370-million-in-ipo-to-fund-growth.html
AirAsia X Bhd. (AAX)  and Nok Airlines Co.
said they will sell shares in initial public offerings to fund
expansion plans as economic growth in  Asia  spurs  travel demand .  AirAsia (AIRA)  X, the long-haul arm of Asia’s biggest budget
carrier AirAsia Bhd., plans to raise as much as $370 million
through an offering in  Malaysia , according to the term sheet
obtained by  Bloomberg News . Nok Air, a budget carrier controlled
by Thai Airways International Pcl, plans to collect 3.25 billion
baht ($106 million) from its IPO, the company said.  Budget airlines in  Southeast Asia  ordered at least 1,000
new aircraft in the past five years as economic expansion across
the region enables more people to start flying in countries such
as Indonesia,  Thailand  and  Vietnam . Some 15 low-fare carriers
started flying in the past decade across Asia-Pacific, the most
profitable region worldwide for at least the fourth consecutive
year, according to the  International Air Transport Association .  “The growing number of middle class with the economic
growth in this region will help increase Asian travel demand,”
said Siyi Lim, an analyst at OCBC Investment Research in
 Singapore . “The budget carriers will benefit more on this
because there’s still a lot of people who haven’t flown
before.”  Institutional investors can bid for AirAsia X, based in
Sepang, Malaysia, at a range of 1.15 ringgit to 1.45 ringgit
apiece, according to the term sheet. The carrier can raise up to
$426 million if it exercises its greenshoe option. The price for
individual investors was set at 1.45 ringgit, according to the
prospectus filed in the Star newspaper today.  AirAsia X  Proceeds from the IPO will help repay bank borrowings and
set up new hubs, the carrier said.  The airline is offering 10.6 percent of its capital to
individual investors and 14.4 percent to institutions, according
to the prospectus. The final sale price for individuals may
change if the institutional price is lower, it said. The offer
for institutional investors closes on June 24 and the listing
will be on July 10.  “We have an early mover advantage in the low-cost, long-haul segment globally, which is poised for substantial growth in
coming years,” AirAsia X said in its prospectus. “We believe
we have the lowest unit operating cost base of any airline in
the world.”  AirAsia gained 0.6 percent to close at 3.35 ringgit in
 Kuala Lumpur  trading.  This is the second of the three proposed listings by
affiliates of AirAsia as the group raises funds to accelerate
expansion. In December, the airline ordered 100 Airbus A320s
valued at $9.4 billion, in addition to the 200 it had agreed in
2011 to purchase. The carrier is also adding a unit in  India 
through a venture with  Tata Group .  Orix, Manara  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., Malayan Banking Bhd., Credit
Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley are joint global coordinators
for the offering. Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc.,
CLSA Ltd. and HSBC Holdings Plc are helping manage the offering.  Aero Ventures Sdn., owned by AirAsia Group CEO  Tony Fernandes  and three others, will cut its stake in the airline to
34.4 percent from 52.2 percent through the IPO.  Japan ’s Orix
Airline Holdings Ltd. and Bahrain’s Manara Consortium will each
reduce their holdings to 6.4 percent from 10.9 percent after the
share sale, according to a prospectus filing with the Kuala
Lumpur stock exchange today. AirAsia Bhd. won’t be cutting its
interest.  Nok Air will sell 187.5 million shares, including those
owned by Aviation Investment International Ltd., at 26 baht
apiece in the offering and expects to start trading on the stock
exchange on June 20.  ‘Strategic Location’  “Our growth strategy is to focus on domestic routes first
and foremost,” Patee Sarasin, Nok’s chief executive officer,
said in the statement. “I strongly believe Thailand is poised
to become the regional air travel hub, thanks to its strategic
location.”  Nok will use proceeds from the IPO for aircraft procurement
and working capital.  Siam Commercial Bank Pcl is the financial adviser and SCB
Securities Co. is the lead underwriter.  Thai Air (THAI) , which owns 49 percent  stake  in Nok Air, advanced
4.9 percent to close at 32 baht in Bangkok trading.  Budget carriers’ market share in the Asia-Pacific region
rose to 24 percent last year from 1.1 percent in 2001, according
to the CAPA Centre for Aviation, an industry consultancy.  Total traffic for the region will expand 6.4 percent a year
during the next 20 years, according to jet maker Boeing Co. In
that period, almost half of the world’s air traffic growth will
be driven by travel to, from or within the Asia-Pacific, it
said.  Asian Plane Orders  Asia Pacific overtook North America as the world’s biggest
aviation market in 2009, according to IATA. The region’s
passenger growth, both domestic and international, is expected
to add about 380 million travelers between 2012 and 2016 to 1.2
billion, IATA forecast in December.  That growth forecast prompted Lion Air in March to place an
order for 234 aircraft from Airbus, its second commitment in two
years to purchase more than 200 planes. Including turboprop
aircraft, the airline has a total of 700 planes on order.  AirAsia has grown into Asia’s biggest discount airline
since its takeover by Fernandes and partners in 2001. In 2011,
AirAsia ordered 200 Airbus A320neo aircraft valued at $18
billion.  Asia will be able to take in more aircraft as economic
growth and a population of more than 3 billion people will
sustain travel demand, Fernandes said in March.  Airlines globally are likely to generate net income of
$12.7 billion in 2013 as capacity cuts help pack planes to
record levels, IATA said earlier this month. Carriers in all
regions should post a profit this year, led by airlines in Asia
with projected earnings of $4.6 billion and  North America  with
$4.4 billion, IATA said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  