-- Alex Jones Sells Gold on Sirius With Bombing Conspiracies
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-06-10T14:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/alex-jones-sells-gold-on-sirius-with-bombing-conspiracies.html
Heda Umarova first encountered
conspiracy theorist Alex Jones while scouring the Internet to
understand how her friend Dzhokhar Tsarnaev went from free-wheeling student to terrorism suspect.  Umarova, a 21-year-old Chechen native from Chelsea,
 Massachusetts , found logic and comfort in Jones, who uses his 17
hours of weekly radio broadcasts and a sprawling online empire
to advance the idea that the U.S. government played a part in
the April 15 explosions that killed three and injured more than
260 at the Boston Marathon.  “A lot of it is ‘Oh my god, he is crazy,’ but a lot of
stuff he says make sense,” said Umarova, who grew up knowing
the Tsarnaev family. “He brings up a lot of valid points.”  She and others obsessed by the violence have coalesced
around Jones, 39, expanding the reach of a man who exemplifies
the Internet conspiracy industry. Sponsored by Midas Resources
Inc., a closely held company that sells gold, his show is
broadcast by  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  on a channel programmed by
 Clear Channel Communications Inc. (CCMO)  and on roughly 80 terrestrial
stations.  The ideas espoused by Jones, who says he brings in $7
million a year, have prompted groups such as the Southern
Poverty Law Center in Montgomery,  Alabama , to accuse him of
fomenting hate. His guests of note include both extremes of the
political spectrum -- from U.S. Senator  Rand Paul  of  Kentucky  on
the right to former U.S. Representative Dennis Kucinich on the
left.  Boston Windfall  “Alex Jones is probably the most important conspiracist in
terms of influence in the U.S. now that Glenn Beck has lost his
chair on network news,” said Chip Berlet, former senior analyst
at Political Research Associates, a Somerville, Massachusetts,
nonprofit that says it advances social justice.  Views of Jones’s website, Infowars.com, spiked about
sevenfold during mid-April as the world focused on the bombings,
according to Alexa.com, a San Francisco company that tracks
Internet analytics. By comparison, views to competing websites
run by Rush Limbaugh and Beck were flat, the data show.  Bilderberg Spectacle  Jones says governments have a history of staging terror
attacks and cites the 1933 Reichstag fire in  Germany  that
preceded the Nazi rise to power. From there he zips to present-day U.S. politics, the Boston attacks and the arrest of Dzhokhar
Tsarnaev.  “We have a criminal government at many levels and so
nothing they say can be trusted or believed,” Jones said in a
telephone interview from Austin. “And now they supposedly have
this guy saying he did it all. I’m sure after they torture the
hell out of him, he’ll say what ever they want him to say.”  Jones took his ideas to Britain last week to protest the
annual Bilderberg organization meeting, a group of global
leaders who gather behind closed doors that this year included
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron and International Monetary
Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde.  Jones garnered attention during a BBC television interview
where he yelled “You will not stop freedom” and “Humanity is
awakening” as host Andrew Neil made hand gestures indicating
Jones was crazy.  Fertile Market  Every weekday, Jones hosts a three-hour program from a
20,000-square-foot studio in Austin,  Texas . He does a two-hour
live version Sundays, assisted by a staff of 50. The program, or
portions of it, is carried on stations including Clear Channel’s
KTCN in  Minneapolis , KLBJ in Austin and WVNJ which broadcasts
into  New York  City.  Talkers Magazine, a trade publication, rates Jones as the
66th most influential radio host in the U.S. The measure
understates his reach because it doesn’t include audiences on
satellite or online, said Michael Harrison, editor and
publisher. Jones’s YouTube channel, for example, has more than
300 million views.  “Alex Jones has one of the largest general radio
listenerships in America,” Harrison said in a telephone
interview from Springfield, Massachusetts. “There is a huge
audience in the world for that type of rebellious, anti-power,
anti-establishment take.”  Wrestling Reporter  The Boston bombings presented a platform for Jones to
spread his view that the U.S. government benefits from terrorism
-- and even perpetrates it -- as part of a larger plot to create
a police state.  “Even if they are not staging the terror, and undoubtedly
they are staging some of it, they are using it to take my
liberties,” Jones said. “So they are part of the terrorism
equation regardless.”  After the first reports of the bombings April 15, Jones
activated  Boston  correspondent Dan Bidondi, a rotund wrestler
with a shaved head, who shouted the first question to
Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick at a news conference.  “Is this another false-flag, staged attack to take our
civil liberties away?” asked Bidondi.  The governor’s answer was “No. Next question.”  Jones grew up in Rockwall, Texas, about 25 miles (40
kilometers) east of  Dallas  before his family moved to Austin
while he was in high school. He took courses at Austin Community
College and then hosted a live a call-in show on a local cable-access station.  Conspiracy Celebrity  He earned his first measure of celebrity after the 51-day
federal siege near Waco, Texas, in 1993 that resulted in the
deaths of 75 members of the Branch Davidian cult. Jones made
documentaries about it.  “Austin at that time became a hotbed of conspiracy
theorists and Alex became like the star quarterback,” said
Kevin Booth, 51, who helped him and was the best man in his
wedding.  “Before that, really the biggest conspiracy anybody really
had was the Kennedy assassination,” Booth said. “All these
conspiracy theorists saw this Waco thing happen and it was kind
of game on.”  Jones said he got hired on a now-defunct station in Austin,
before being fired for tirades in 1999.  He turned to Ted Anderson, who had just started Genesis
Communications Network, a radio syndication company in
Burnsville,  Minnesota , founded to “promote the importance of
investing in precious metals,” according to its website.  Anderson uses Genesis to bolster sales for parent company
Midas Resources. He is president of both.  Avid Seeker  Jones frequently rails against the Federal Reserve and has
espoused a return the gold standard to control spending and take
monetary policy out of the hands of the government.  When Jones pitches gold “people will respond,” said
Anderson. “We do a lot of business with Alex Jones’s
listeners.”  He said he is at peace with the content of the program.  “The man just wants to uncover the truth and he is willing
to look a little further for it,” Anderson said.  Sirius XM, which has more than 24 million listeners,
broadcasts the Alex Jones Show daily from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. In an
e-mail, Patrick Reilly, a senior vice president for
communications, said “his show is not programmed by us nor is
the host, show or channel under our control.”  Reilly, whose company is the product of a 2008 merger, said
the show is broadcast due to a “pre-existing agreement”
between XM and Clear Channel. New York-based Sirius reported
$3.4 billion in revenue last year.  Tiffany Johnson, a spokeswoman for Clear Channel, which is
the biggest U.S. radio station owner, declined to comment on
Jones’s program.  Lonely Millenarian  Jones said additional revenue comes from books and films
with titles such as “Police State 4: The Rise of FEMA” and
“ENDGAME: Blueprint for Global Enslavement” that he sells on
his website.  Fans can also purchase radiation sensors, water purifiers
and seed vaults. There’s even a dating service. In one posting,
a 48-year-old divorcee named Chris says she’s looking for a man
who believes that the end of civilization is nigh.  “It’d be nice to find someone to snuggle in a bunker
with,” she wrote.  Other fans are less harmless. One was Tamerlan Tsarnaev,
according to an Associated Press story. Jared L. Loughner, who
killed six people and wounded 13, including U.S. Representative
 Gabrielle Giffords  in 2011, saw a 9/11 conspiracy film Jones
made, according to the Los Angeles Times.  Human Bombs  “He does not build bombs, he builds bombers,” said Mark Potok, a senior fellow at the Southern Poverty Law Center. “He
feeds sick minds all over this country, and some of those people
engage in real-life terrorism.”  Jones dismissed the notion that he bears any
responsibility.  “It is an outrageous, fascist demonization to connect free
speech to terrorism,” he said.  Jones’s ideas have surfaced in more formal venues. New
Hampshire lawmaker Stella Tremblay, a Republican, said Jones’s
website helped convince her that official accounts of the
terrorist attacks are not reliable. She suggested that Boston
bombing victim Jeff Bauman, photographed in a wheelchair with
mangled legs, wasn’t really hurt.  “He was not in shock. He was not in pain,” Tremblay said
during a radio interview. “If I had had those types of
injuries, I’d be screaming in agony.”  Spreading Lies  After the Dec. 14 Sandy Hook Elementary School shootings in
Newtown,  Connecticut , an article on Infowars.com argued that
Adam Lanza didn’t use an AR-15 Bushmaster to kill 20 children.
Instead, the piece said, authorities lied to create a pretext
for an assault-weapons ban.  State police put out a news release to quash that idea.  “What they are spreading, simply stated, is lies,”
Lieutenant J. Paul Vance, a spokesman, said in an interview.  Confusion over basic facts makes informed public debate
impossible, said Jonathan Kay of Toronto, who interviewed Jones
for his 2011 book “Among the Truthers.”  “You can’t debate national security with somebody who
thinks 9/11 was an inside job,” he said. “He’s a showman.”  And his show provides validation and inspiration for Heda
Umarova and her followers. Their #freejahar network is raising
money for the Tsarnaev family.  “When I first started I thought nobody would support
this,” Umarova said. “I thought I would take all the heat. I
expected nobody to support what I was doing.”  Instead, her social media following increased 16-fold.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net ; Prashant Gopal in 
Boston at   pgopal2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  