-- Allana Says Concerns for Potash Supply Glut Overblown
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-06-10T21:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/allana-says-concerns-for-potash-supply-glut-overblown.html
Allana Potash Corp. (AAA) , the Canadian
developer of a $642 million potash mine in Ethiopia, says
predictions of a global oversupply of the crop nutrient are
overblown because competing projects are being put on hold.  World potash production capacity will rise 38 percent to
96.5 million metric tons by 2017, while demand will increase 26
percent to 66 million tons, according to  Green Markets , a
fertilizer industry information provider.  Supply forecasts include mines that aren’t yet in
production and may be shelved or canceled because of rising
construction costs, said Farhad Abasov, Toronto-based Allana’s
chief executive officer.  “On paper it seems like there is quite a bit of supply
coming on line,” Abasov said in a May 28 telephone interview
from  London . “In reality only a handful of them will hit
production.”  Soaring expenses are beginning to exact a toll on proposed
potash mines around the world. Vale SA, the third-largest mining
company, in March suspended its Rio Colorado project in
 Argentina  after the estimated cost almost doubled to about $11
billion. Last month, U.S. producer  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  deferred a
capacity expansion in the Canadian province of Saskatchewan and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts said  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  is likely
to shelve its Jansen potash project.  Rising Costs  It’s only a matter of time before more developments, some
with a price tag of more than $1 billion, are hobbled by complex
geology, a lack of committed financing, and rising costs, said
Spencer Churchill, a Toronto-based analyst at Paradigm Capital
Inc.  “Allana is unique because it has found a large, high-grade
potash deposit that is near-surface and faces fewer challenges
than the traditional greenfield projects,” Churchill, who has a
buy rating on Allana, said in a May 23 note.  Allana fell 3.9 percent to 50 cents at the close in
Toronto. The shares have advanced 6.4 percent in Toronto this
year, the fifth-best performer on an  index  of 37 fertilizer
stocks compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Allana posted a net loss of C$3.86 million ($3.79 million)
and no revenue in the quarter ended Jan. 31. It had C$28.6
million of cash at the end of the period, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  BHP Review  Potash, a form of potassium and one of three essential crop
nutrients, is applied to plants to help them strengthen their
root systems and resist drought.  Abasov isn’t alone in regarding industry concerns about
excess supply as exaggerated, Peter Prattas, a Toronto-based
analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald LP, said May 30 in a telephone
interview.  “We share the view,” said Prattas, who rates Allana a buy
with a C$1.25 price target. “The fears come from the fact that
there is overcapacity, but there certainly isn’t oversupply.”  Jansen, which is located in Saskatchewan, is under review
at Melbourne-based BHP. The project may eventually cost close to
$15 billion, Bank of of America Merrill Lynch analysts said in a
June 4 note.  BHP Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mackenzie , who is
slashing  capital spending  after a decline in commodity prices,
said June 6 that potash “is a great option but it’s just an
option” and that Jansen must meet certain criteria if it’s to
proceed.  Below Capacity  Meanwhile, major producers such as  Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc.  and Russia’s  OAO Uralkali (URKA) , the world’s two
biggest, “will not choose to ramp up their production to
anywhere near full production because their bias is always price
over volumes,” Prattas said.  Bill Johnson , a spokesman for Potash Corp., referred to CEO
Bill Doyle’s comments on an April 25 conference call when he
said that “we always think that price is more important than
volume.”  Rob Litt, a spokesman for Mosaic, declined to comment on
the outlook for potash demand and supply. No one at Uralkali and
 Brazil ’s Vale was immediately available for comment.  The potash industry is dominated by producers in  North
America  and the former  Soviet Union  that together accounted for
56 percent of supply last year, according to Green Markets, a
unit of Bloomberg LP, which is the parent of  Bloomberg News .
Uralkali shipped 9.5 million tons in 2012 and had 11.5 million
tons of capacity, the Green Markets data show.  China Exports  Uralkali said May 29 it reduced its rail exports of potash
to  China , cutting supply in the  spot market  and strengthening
its position in talks for the nation’s next fixed-price supply
contract.  Abasov, a former senior vice president at Potash One Inc.
who left the company about three years before it was sold to
German fertilizer producer  K+S AG (SDF)  in 2011 for C$361 million, is
proposing to  build  a mine in  Ethiopia  that would flush water-soluble underground potash deposits with brine. The resulting
liquid solution from the development, part of Allana’s Dallol
exploration area, would be pumped to evaporation ponds on the
surface.  Last month, Allana said Ethiopia approved the company’s
environmental, social and health impact assessment for Dallol. A
feasibility study was completed in February.  ‘Sweet Spot’  The Ethiopian mine is well-situated geographically to
supply fertilizer buyers in  India  and China and to meet growing
demand for crop nutrients in  Africa , Abasov said. Allana
forecasts the development will have a 33 percent internal rate
of return and a payback period of 3.1 years, assuming a potash
price of $430 a ton, according to the company’s website.  Allana, which plans to start construction of the mine by
the end of this year and begin production three years later, is
in talks with lenders and potential buyers of its potash, Abasov
said. International Finance Corp., a World Bank unit, and
Boston-based Liberty Metals & Mining Holdings LLC, a subsidiary
of Liberty Mutual Holding Co., are Allana shareholders.  “Our project is right in the sweet spot because it has
great economics, it is food-related and it is in a country that
needs a lot of development,” Abasov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  