-- AMS Slumps After Apple Supplier Sees Profit Drop
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2013-06-10T09:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/ams-slumps-after-apple-supplier-sees-profit-drop.html
AMS AG (AMS) , the Austrian maker of
semiconductors whose clients include  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , lost as much as
a fifth of its market value after saying operating profit will
probably fall this year as clients delay orders.  AMS shares fell as much as 23 percent, the biggest intraday
decline since Aug. 9, 2011. The stock more than doubled last
year. The shares were trading 22 percent lower at 67.50 francs
as of 11:37 a.m. in Zurich, giving the company a market value of
978 million Swiss francs ($1 billion).  AMS forecast operating profit will decline this year
because some “ramp-ups” for devices with its products will
occur in late 2013 or the first months of next year, the
Unterpremstaetten, Austria-based company said in a statement on
its website today. AMS didn’t say which client delayed orders,
saying some of the contracts are for new products with higher
margins. The outlook raised concern Apple may be delaying the
introduction of a new iPhone, weighing on shares of suppliers to
the Cupertino, California-based company.  “AMS’s warning could be the first hint that the launch of
Apple’s new iPhones will be postponed further into late third-quarter or even fourth-quarter 2013, which would have a severe
adverse impact on the entire supply chain,” wrote Bernd Laux,
an analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux. “However, AMS’s comments could
also be a ‘catch-up’ relative to competitors’ expectations,
which had already been lowered in April.”  Sentiment Drag  Dialog Semiconductor Plc (DLG) , a Kirchheim, Germany-based maker
of chips for iPhones, fell 3.5 percent to 11.25 euros in
 Frankfurt . Laux, who has a buy recommendation on the stock, said
AMS’s statement may “drag on the sentiment” for chip stocks
and suppliers of Apple, though the Austrian company has
particular issues, such as a change in management, that don’t
affect the entire industry.  AMS said on April 22 it expected full-year revenue growth
to exceed 10 percent. Today it said sales will probably rise
this year.  “While we were aware that AMS’s guidance was potentially
at risk and depending on customers, today’s announcement is
somewhat conflicting with earlier information and therefore
raises questions again regarding management and board and
communication,” wrote  Michael Foeth , an analyst at Bank
Vontobel. Analysts may cut their 2013 operating profit estimates
as much as 20 percent, he said. “Rebuilding confidence may now
become a longer exercise.”  More than 550,000 shares exchanged hands, more than three
times the daily trading average for the last three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  