-- Manchester Utd.’s Chance of Signing Lewandowski Boosted: Roundup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-06-10T10:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/manchester-utd-s-chance-of-signing-lewandowski-boosted-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Lewandowski for United?  Borussia Dortmund striker  Robert Lewandowski  could be
heading for England’s Premier League after his club last night
blocked his sale to Bayern Munich, the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  Dortmund Chief Executive Officer Hans-Joachim Watzke is
“adamant” that the team won’t let him join the German and
European champion, the newspaper said.  Lewandowski is out of contract next year, so could still
join Bayern then, but Manchester United or Chelsea could now try
to sign the Polish national team player, the Telegraph added.  Bayern defeated Dortmund 2-1 in the Champions League final
last month.  United Target  Manchester United is keen to sign Monaco midfielder
Nampalys Mendy, the  Daily Mail  reported  The 20-year-old has “stunned” Monaco by saying he plans
to leave as a free agent this offseason, the newspaper added.  Monaco is interested in United winger Nani, the Mail said,
while  Thiago Silva  has urged Wayne Rooney to join him at Paris
Saint-Germain.  Torres-Cavani Exchange?  Rafael Benitez  has told his new team Napoli that he’d like
to work with  Fernando Torres  again after the two were together
at Chelsea, the  Daily Express  reported.  That could open the way for the Blues to sign Napoli
striker Edinson Cavani, the Express added  Cavani, rated at 53 million pounds ($82 million) by the
Italian club, is new Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho ’s top target,
the newspaper said.  Reds Eye Winger  Liverpool is closing in on a 5 million-pound deal for
Sevilla winger Luis Alberto, the Mail reported.  The Spanish team is hoping to get add-on payments of as
much as 8 million pounds for the 20-year-old, the newspaper
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  