-- Mandela Hospitalized for Third Day Due to Lung Infection
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-06-10T16:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/mandela-hospitalized-third-day-for-treatment-of-lung-infection.html
Former South African President
 Nelson Mandela  remained in a Pretoria hospital for a third day
for treatment of a lung infection after being admitted for a
fourth time since December.  “Former President Nelson Mandela remains in hospital, and
his condition is unchanged,” the Presidency said in an e-mail.
The statement was the first official comment on Mandela’s health
since June 8, when President Jacob Zuma’s office said his
condition was “serious but stable.”  Mandela, 94, was treated in the hospital in April for
pneumonia and had to have fluid drained from around his lungs.
He also had gallstones removed earlier this year.  Mandela served for five years as  South Africa ’s first black
president after his African National Congress party won all-race
elections that ended apartheid in 1994. He spent 27 years in
prison, most of it on Robben Island off the coast of  Cape Town ,
where he contracted tuberculosis. Also known by his clan name,
Madiba, Mandela won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993.  “President  Jacob Zuma  reiterates his call for South Africa
to pray for Madiba and the family during this time,” the
Presidency said.  Fellow Nobel laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu also
expressed his support for Mandela as he endures “the ravages of
time in hospital,” according to an e-mailed statement from his
foundation.  “We offer our thanks to God for the extraordinary gift of
Mr Mandela, and wish his family strength,” Tutu’s foundation
said.  African Union Commission Chairwoman Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma,
a former South African government minister and Zuma’s ex-wife,
said “it gives me great comfort to hear that he is also
responding positively to treatment,” according to an e-mailed
statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  