-- Marubeni to Pay $1 Billion Less for Gavilon Minus Energy
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2013-06-10T07:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/marubeni-cuts-1-billion-off-gavilon-price-by-excluding-energy.html
Marubeni Corp. (8002) , the Japanese trader
seeking to buy Gavilon Holdings LLC, will pay $1 billion less
for the U.S. grain supplier after excluding its energy business.  Under a revised agreement on a deal first announced in May
2012, the trading company will pay $2.6 billion for all of
Gavilon minus its energy unit, Tokyo-based Marubeni said today
in a statement. Marubeni said last year that it would pay $3.6
billion and take over $2 billion of Gavilon’s debt as part of
its biggest-ever acquisition.  “This is positive news as Gavilon’s energy business is not
strategic for Marubeni,” said Jiro Iokibe, an analyst at Daiwa
Securities Co. in  Tokyo . Marubeni has secured a 28 percent
discount by excluding a unit that contributes about 15 percent
to 20 percent of Gavilon’s total earnings, he said.  Buying Omaha, Nebraska-based Gavilon allows  Japan ’s biggest
agricultural trader to expand its sourcing of corn and soybean
to better compete with Cargill Inc. The U.S., which is the
world’s largest producer of grain, is one of the main import
sources for Asia.  Marubeni  shares  rose 25 yen, or 3.8 percent, to 688 yen in
Tokyo trading, their biggest one-day gain since May 21. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 4.9 percent.  Yen Weakens  The yen has weakened 19 percent against the U.S. dollar
since Marubeni announced its agreement to buy Gavilon on May 30,
2012. Marubeni planned at the time of the announcement to fund
half the purchase with loans, Barclays Plc and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. said in May reports after a call with the trading company’s
executives.  The acquisition of the third-largest grain storage network
in the U.S. from a group of funds led by Ospraie Management LLC
was subject to a purchase price adjustment at the time of
closing, Marubeni said at the time of the deal’s announcement.  The yen’s drop is unlikely to be a major reason behind
Marubeni’s decision to drop the energy business, which it
probably wasn’t interested in from the start, Daiwa’s Iokibe
said. The exclusion helps reduce the size of the debt Marubeni
takes over.  “Without the energy business, automatically the size of
the debt is less,” which is very positive for Marubeni’s debt
profile and general financial health, Iokibe said.  Grain Volumes  A Marubeni spokeswoman declined to comment on why the
trading company dropped the energy unit or how the revised
agreement affects debt levels the Japanese company will assume.  Taking over Gavilon will more than double Marubeni’s grain
handling volumes to more than 55 million metric tons a year, the
Japanese company said in May last year. As well as gaining 140
grain loading sites, the deal helps Marubeni to access more
grain production sources in Brazil, Australia, Ukraine and the
U.S.  Energy is the smallest of Gavilon’s businesses, which also
include fertilizer trading and storage. The energy unit trades
crude oil, natural gas and fuels. The business operates storage
capacity for 8 million barrels of crude, 10 billion cubic feet
of gas and 500,000 barrels of refined oil products, according to
Marubeni’s website.  Food accounted for 17.1 billion yen of Marubeni’s 205.7
billion of net income in the fiscal year ended March 31, while
energy contributed 27.9 billion yen. Food profits are expected
to jump to 30 billion yen this year, while energy will rise to
39 billion yen, the company  said last month .  Marubeni, which in April received Chinese antitrust
approval for the purchase, is in the process of fulfilling
conditions that came with the approval to close the deal, the
trading company said.  The approval, coming almost a year after Marubeni said that
it agreed on the purchase, was given on the basis that the
Japanese company and Gavilon continue to operate separate units
for soybean trading in  China  so as not to limit competition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Ichiro Suzuki in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  