-- AstraZeneca to Pay Up to $1.15 Billion for Pearl
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-06-10T18:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/astrazeneca-to-pay-up-to-1-15-billion-for-pearl.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  agreed to buy Pearl
Therapeutics Inc., a closely held U.S. drugmaker, for as much as
$1.15 billion to expand its portfolio of respiratory-disease
treatments as competition for lung medicines increases.  The U.K. company will pay $560 million initially for
 Redwood City , California-based Pearl Therapeutics, AstraZeneca
said today in a  statement . Payments related to development of
Pearl Therapeutics’ products could add as much as $450 million
to the price, and sales-related payments could add as much as
$140 million, according to the statement.  It’s the second acquisition in two weeks by London-based
AstraZeneca, which is looking to replenish the pipeline as its
best-selling drugs face generic competition over the next three
years. Pearl Therapeutics has a drug called PT003 for chronic
obstructive pulmonary disorder in late-stage clinical trials,
which would fit with AstraZeneca’s Symbicort portfolio,
AstraZeneca Chief Executive Pascal Soriot said.  “Pearl’s novel formulation technology, together with its
development products and specialist expertise, are a great
complement to AstraZeneca’s long-established capabilities in
respiratory disease, one of our core therapy areas,” Soriot
said in the statement.  ‘Sensible’ Price  AstraZeneca said the Pearl Therapeutics purchase won’t
change its 2013 forecast. The price is “sensible” and the deal
structure “prudent,”  Mark Purcell , an analyst with Barclays,
wrote in a note to investors today.  AstraZeneca rose 0.2 percent to 3,308 pence at 4:30 p.m. in
London, giving it a market value of 41.4 billion pounds ($64.4
billion). The stock has gained 18 percent this year, including
reinvested dividends,  compared with  a 19 return in the Bloomberg
Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  The market for dual bronchodilators, treatments that
increase air flow to the lungs, may reach $8 billion in sales by
2021, yet Pearl Therapeutics’ product will probably be the fifth
to be introduced,  Alistair Campbell , an analyst with Berenberg
Bank, said in a note to investors. Pearl has a triple-combination therapy in mid-stage trials that would be second to
a  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  product, he said.  “This is a sensible deal to try to fix a recognized gap in
the pipeline,” Campbell said. “AstraZeneca will be late to
market and with no obvious differentiation, but there were few
options left to the company.”  Competing Drugs  While PT003 will probably enter the market in 2016 behind
competing drugs from London-based Glaxo and  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and is
taken twice-daily rather than once daily, the inhaler is a
“differentiating feature,” Andrew Whitney, an analyst with UBS
AG, said in a note to investors today.  PT003 consists of formoterol, a long-acting beta-2
antagonist, or LABA, and glycopyrrolate, a long-acting
muscarinic antagonist, or LAMA. Pearl has another therapy in
mid-stage development called PT010 which delivers a combination
of LABA, LAMA and an inhaled corticosteroid, and AstraZeneca
said it may accelerate development of the triple therapy.  “This is really a defensive acquisition; otherwise, Astra
would be left behind on the new LAMA-LABA and LAMA-LABA-ICS
combo race,” said Fabian Wenner, an analyst with Kepler
Cheuvreux.  Soriot has said he wants to pursue bolt-on acquisitions to
bolster the pipeline rather than large purchases. The London-based company said May 28 that it would buy Omthera
Pharmaceuticals Inc., which makes a cholesterol-lowering pill
called Epanova, for as much as $443 million.  Sagent Advisors acted as Pearl’s financial adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  London  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  