-- Latin America Can Handle Fed’s Post-Stimulus Effects, IMF Says
-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-06-10T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/latin-america-can-handle-fed-s-post-stimulus-effects-imf-says.html
Latin American economies are “well
positioned” to withstand capital outflows as speculation
increases that the  Federal Reserve  will roll back its stimulus,
said the International Monetary Fund’s top official for the
region.  Latin American banks are better capitalized than in the
past and asset prices aren’t inflated, two important buffers in
the event of volatility, Alejandro Werner, director of the IMF’s
Western Hemisphere Department, said in an interview. Much of the
capital flowing to the region in recent years has come in the
form of foreign direct investment and even some portfolio flows
are more permanent, reflecting investors’ preference for markets
with lower debt levels, said the 46-year-old economist.  As the region prepares for the possible end of the Fed’s
$85 billion-a-month program of asset purchases, “there will be
a lot of volatility, investors do overreact, but I think these
economies are well positioned to absorb these kind of
movements,” Werner said. “We won’t see important side effects
from these movements in asset prices,” he said at Bloomberg’s
office in Washington June 7.  Debate among U.S. policy makers over when and how to dial
back the Fed’s campaign has shaken financial markets in
developing nations.  Brazil  last week began unwinding  capital
controls  it erected in 2010 after the real lost 8.8 percent in
the past three months, the second-biggest decline among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Vulnerabilities  The  Mexican peso  advanced 0.3 percent last week,  halting
four consecutive weekly declines. The currency has tumbled 2.7
percent since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s May 22 comments
that the U.S. “could” scale back the pace of asset purchases
in the “next few meetings” if the labor market improves and
the Fed is convinced the gains are sustainable.  “Latin America has not built the type of vulnerabilities
that it built in the past that generated this type of, let’s
say, capital outflow episode,” according to Werner, former
deputy finance minister in  Mexico .  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  has lost 8.5 percent since May 22, while
the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index gauge has tumbled 6.4 percent
and declined for four straight weeks through June 7. Investors
pulled $5 billion from emerging-market stock funds in the week
through June 5, according to Citigroup Inc.  “This will not generate balance sheet problems, neither in
corporate nor in banking, and it’ll alleviate some of the
pressures that some sectors of the economy now face with
stronger currencies,” Werner said.  Slower Growth  The IMF in April cut its forecast for growth this year in
 Latin America  and the Caribbean to 3.4 percent from 3.6 percent,
as a weak global economy and a slowdown in Brazil offset
consumer demand. The region is recovering after growing 3
percent last year, following a 4.5 percent expansion in 2011,
the IMF said in a May 6 report.  The IMF in December reversed its decades-long opposition to
capital controls, saying that their targeted and temporary use
can help prevent the formation of asset bubbles in times of
excessive global liquidity.  Werner defended the IMF’s change of opinion giving the low
levels of international  interest rates .  “It’s a valid tool,” he said. As global monetary
conditions become more normal “the rationale to have these
controls disappear and eventually these controls should go
away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  