-- Australia Futures Drop, Extend Five-Month Low, on China Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-06-10T23:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/australia-futures-drop-extend-five-month-low-on-china-concern.html
Australian stock futures dropped as
the country’s markets reopen following a holiday, after  China ’s
industrial production rose less than forecast. Equity futures in
Japan and Hong Kong fell.  American Depositary Receipts  of Rio Tinto Group, the
world’s second-largest mining company, sank 1.9 percent in  New
York . ADRs of Toyota Motor Corp. climbed 0.7 percent as the yen
weakened against the dollar, boosting the earnings outlook at
the world’s biggest carmaker. Those of Cathay Pacific Airways
Ltd., Asia’s biggest international carrier, declined 0.5 percent
from the close in Hong Kong.  Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index retreated 0.4
percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index of stocks rose 0.2 percent.
Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring this month
closed at 13,560 in Chicago yesterday, down from 13,620 at the
close in Osaka,  Japan . They were bid in the pre-market at 13,600
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. The  Bank of Japan  is due to
release a policy statement today amid speculation it will double
the maturity of 0.1 percent loans for banks to stem  bond market 
volatility.  “The BOJ’s press conference and monetary policy statement
today have a chance to add stability to a currency and a market
that has been in free-fall,” said Evan Lucas, a Melbourne-based
markets strategist at IG Markets Ltd., a provider of trading
services. “Watch for comments about JGBs, and any further
support the central bank can give to the bond market.”  Hong Kong  Futures on  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index slid 0.3 percent and
contracts on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland
Chinese companies trading in Hong Kong retreated 0.1 percent.
The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese
shares in the U.S. dropped 0.9 percent in New York yesterday.
China equity markets are closed for holidays.  Asian stocks rose yesterday, with the regional benchmark
index heading for the biggest rally in three weeks, after a
report showed the U.S. added more workers than expected.
Japanese shares surged after a three-week, $600 billion rout.
The Topix index jumped 5.2 percent.  That left the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark
regional equities gauge, yesterday trading at 12.9 times average
estimated earnings compared with 14.9 for the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  and 13 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid less than
0.1 percent. The measure fell less than 0.1 percent yesterday as
investors weighed S&P’s decision to boost its outlook on the
U.S.’s credit rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  