-- Hawke Horror Flick Outsells Vaughn-Wilson Comedy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-06-10T22:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/hawke-horror-flick-outsells-vaughn-wilson-comedy.html
“The Purge,” the low-budget horror
movie, topped film sales in the U.S. and  Canada  this past
weekend as the Vince Vaughn and Owen Wilson comedy “The
Internship” came in fourth for Twentieth Century Fox.  “The Purge,” the first in a partnership between  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures and  Jason Blum , producer of
“Paranormal Activity,” beat forecasts with $34.1 million in
ticket sales, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said in a
statement today. “The Internship,” from News Corp.’s Fox and
Regency Enterprises, had $17.3 million in its debut, not enough
to beat holdovers “Fast & Furious 6” and “Now You See Me.”  Strong opening-night sales for “The Purge,” which
Universal Pictures projected to gross in the mid- to high-teens,
was the first indication “that this was going to be bigger than
anybody expected,” said Nikki Rocco, president of distribution.
“As we watched the matinee numbers come in on Friday, it was
obvious this was going to be a solid hit and by then we were
out-grossing everybody.”  Starring Ethan Hawke, “The Purge” was made for $3 million
and, like past Blum successes such as the “Paranormal
Activity” series, “Insidious” and “Sinister,” it focuses on
storytelling while using few special effects. The movie also
benefited from weak competition as studios avoided introducing
major films ahead of this coming weekend’s release of  “Man of
Steel,”  Warner Bros.’s reboot of the Superman franchise.  Lawless Land  “The Blumhouse team really develops good, high-concept
films,” said Phil Contrino, chief analyst at Boxoffice.com.
“These are very basic stories. You watch the trailer for ‘The
Purge’ and you know what you are going to get.”  The film will struggle to hold its audience next weekend
with the debut of “Man of Steel” because of the overlap in
viewers with that movie, Contrino said. Given the film’s tiny
budget, one weekend may be all “The Purge” needs. Contrino had
raised his forecast for the film to as much as  $30 million  from
$21 million based on reports of strong opening-day sales.  “The Purge” is set in a future U.S. where all laws are
suspended for one night a year to allow people to vent their
rage and anger. Police take the night off. Hawke stars as the
husband whose home is besieged after his son breaks the rules by
giving shelter to a man being chased by a murderous gang.  ‘The Internship’  “We knew based on tracking surveys that there was really,
really strong interest to see the film as we were leading into
the last couple of weeks,” Rocco said, crediting a strong
Twitter following with helping to boost ticket sales. “But the
truth of the matter is, you never never expect anything at this
level.”  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s “The Internship,” made for $58 million, beat
the $15.6 million opening-weekend forecast by Boxoffice.com.  “We are pleased with the opening,” said Chris Aronson,
president of domestic distribution for 20th Century Fox. “We
had expected the opening in the midteens.”  It stars Vaughn and Wilson as unemployed forty-somethings
who gain coveted internships at  Google Inc. (GOOG)  The technologically
challenged buddies quickly find themselves outclassed by new
college graduates competing for a few full-time jobs.  “It was the latest in a recent string of mainstream comedy
releases from each actor that failed to draw big crowds like
their earlier hits had,” according to Box Office Guru’s Gitesh Pandya.  Sales Down  Google cooperated with the filmmakers, allowing portions to
be shot at its Mountain View, California, headquarters and
 Sergey Brin , co-founder of the search company, makes a cameo
appearance. Critics have panned the film, which is directed by
Shawn Levy with a script by Vaughn and Jared Stern, saying the
humor is stale and the story too adoring of Google. Of the 98
reviews compiled on  Rottentomatoes.com , 66 were negative.  “Google, the corporate entity, is so lovingly portrayed
that the film itself resembles nothing so much as a massive
product tie-in,” wrote Christian Science Monitor critic Peter
Rainer.  Among returning films, “Fast and Furious 6” fell to
second with $19.6 million in sales after two weeks in first
place. The film, also from Universal, has taken in $202.8
million since it was released on May 24.  “Now You See Me,” from  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ,
dropped to third from second, taking in $19 million.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 18 percent to
$143.3 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Attendance is down 5.9 percent year to date, while revenue is
6.2 percent lower at $4.37 billion.  The following table has U.S. and Canadian movie box office
figures provided by studios to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The
amounts are based on actual sales for June 7 through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  