-- Axis, HDFC Bank, ICICI Fined for Violating RBI Laundering Rules
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-06-10T13:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/axis-hdfc-bank-icici-fined-for-violating-rbi-laundering-rules.html
India’s central bank ordered  HDFC
Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) , the country’s biggest by market value, Axis Bank Ltd.
and  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  to pay penalties for flouting rules
including those on  money laundering .  Axis will have to pay a fine of 50 million rupees
($860,659), while HDFC was imposed a penalty of 45 million
rupees, the central bank said in a  statement  on its website.
ICICI needs to pay 10 million rupees.  The Reserve Bank of India’s action comes at a time when
financial regulators and law enforcement agencies worldwide are
stepping up efforts to tackle money laundering and fraud.  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest bank, in December agreed to pay
$1.92 billion to settle a case with regulators that included the
 U.S. Department of Justice .  The three banks are running a nationwide “money laundering
racket,” violating multiple rules including tax and banking
regulations, news website Cobrapost reported on March 14, after
a sting operation. The banking regulator is investigating the
allegations and appropriate action will be taken against those
lenders that breached rules, central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said at a press conference on May 3.  “The announced penalty is too small to have any meaningful
impact on the lenders,” Hatim Broachwala, Mumbai-based banking
analyst at Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. said by phone. “No impact
on share prices are expected when trading starts tomorrow. The
penalty is only symbolic in nature.”  Sujit Ganguli, a Mumbai-based spokesman at ICICI Bank,
declined to comment immediately on the penalty. Somnath Sengupta, executive director at  Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB) , and Neeraj Jha,
spokesman at HDFC Bank, didn’t answer two calls each to their
mobile phones.  ICICI fell 2.1 percent to 1,117.80 rupees at the close in
Mumbai today. HDFC Bank was little changed, while Axis Bank
declined 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  