-- Bank of America’s Laughlin Says Accord Talks Were Tense
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-06-10T22:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/bank-of-america-s-laughlin-says-accord-talks-were-tense.html
Negotiations that led to an $8.5
billion mortgage-bond settlement between  Bank of America Corp. 
and institutional investors were tense and combative, the bank’s
chief risk officer testified.  The first meetings with investors who brought claims
against the bank for breaches of representations and warranties
were “very tense,” with both sides taking “very strong
positions,” Chief Risk Officer Terrence P. Laughlin testified
today in  New York . The settlement talks that followed were also
“contentious” and “adversarial” and Laughlin said he “got
very upset” because he didn’t believe the investors were
negotiating in good faith.  “I thought they were being extremely aggressive and one-sided in what they thought future losses would be coming out of
these trusts,” Laughlin said. “The investors were putting
forth a very negative scenario. They were trying to put forth a
high loss number” to reach a higher settlement.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Barbara Kapnick is
presiding at a nonjury trial in  Manhattan  over the accord, which
resolves claims from Countrywide Financial mortgage-bond
investors including Pacific Investment Management Co. and
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  over loans bundled into securities.  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  is fighting the settlement, saying Bank
of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , isn’t paying
enough to compensate investors.  Settlement Offer  The bank initially offered to settle the case for $1.5
billion, and later increased its bid to as much a $5 billion
while the institutional investors were proposing to resolve the
claims for $12 billion to $16 billion, Laughlin said.  The bank agreed to offer as much as $6 billion after the
investors said they might be willing to lower their range, he
said. The group later “got very aggressive” and said it would
pursue other options to resolve the investors’ claims if the two
sides didn’t reach a settlement, Laughlin said.  “It was certainly a threat,” Laughlin said.  The bank then raised its offer to $7 billion, to be paid in
installments, a proposal that Gibb & Bruns LLP, the  law firm 
representing the investors, rejected. The firm raised their
proposed settlement amount to $8.5 billion and said “take it or
leave it,” Laughlin said.  Aggressive Investors  The bank was concerned that if it didn’t reach a settlement
agreement that the investors “would become very aggressive”
and go public with the fact that talks had broken down, Laughlin
said. Putting Countrywide into bankruptcy was and still is an
option for Bank of America, Laughlin said.  “Finally it became very evident that the investor group
was not going to move past $8.5 billion,” Laughlin said. “We
entered into settlement negotiations never thinking we would pay
an amount that high.”  Opening statements in the case began on June 3. The
settlement is part of an effort by Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan to clear up liabilities tied to the purchase of home
lender Countrywide Financial in 2008.  For Moynihan, 53, approval of the settlement would resolve
one of the biggest remaining uncertainties tied to Bank of
America’s takeover of Countrywide, Pri de Silva, senior banking
analyst at CreditSights Inc., said before the trial started.  The bank reached an $11.7 billion settlement with mortgage-finance company Fannie Mae in January and ended disputes with
bond insurers including  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , which settled for $1.7
billion with the lender in May. What remains for Moynihan are
claims from private investors, and the 2011 accord deals with
most of those, de Silva said.  Major Milestone  Moynihan called the deal, which stems from Countrywide
loans with an original principal balance of $424 billion, “a
major milestone” in a March 27 interview on PBS television’s
“Charlie Rose” program. He has booked more than $45 billion in
costs to clean up  the mortgage mess  inherited from the purchase
of Countrywide.  Unresolved demands that Bank of America repurchase
mortgages dropped 39 percent to $17.1 billion as of March 31,
driven by demands extinguished in the  Fannie Mae  deal, according
to company filings.  AIG and other opponents have asked Kapnick in court papers
to reject the settlement. They call it a “pennies-on-the-dollar
bargain” for the bank because losses to the securitization
trusts at issue in the case are expected to be more than $100
billion.  Own Interest  They also claim BNY Mellon violated its responsibilities to
investors by putting its own interests and the interests of its
“business partner,” Bank of America, ahead of the interests of
investors.  The investor group supporting the deal, which also includes
Pacific Investment Management Co., Goldman Sachs Asset
Management and  MetLife Inc. (MET) , called the opponents a “vocal
minority.” Out of tens of thousands of investors, only 10 filed
objections, they said in court papers, and many of them,
including New York-based AIG, are pursuing separate litigation
against Bank of America and  BNY Mellon .  The settlement is “outstanding” for investors and is in
the best interest of Pimco’s clients to support it, Kent Smith,
an executive at the  Newport Beach , California-based firm
testified during the trial last week.  The case is In the matter of the application of the Bank of
New York Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  