-- Banks Seen Keeping Policy Support on Growth Risk: Southeast Asia
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2013-06-10T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/banks-seen-keeping-policy-support-on-growth-risk-southeast-asia.html
The  Philippines  and  Indonesia  will
probably refrain from monetary tightening to protect their
economies from a regional growth slowdown that’s sparked capital
outflows and driven down stocks and currencies.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas may lower the rate on its
special deposit accounts for a fourth time on June 13, while
keeping the benchmark  overnight rate  at 3.5 percent, according
to a Bloomberg News survey. Bank Indonesia Governor Agus Martowardojo, who presides over his first policy meeting the
same day, will hold the  reference rate  at 5.75 percent,
according to all 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Slowing inflation from China to  India  and Indonesia’s delay
in implementing a planned fuel-price increase have provided
scope for policy makers as the global recovery falters. South
Korea will probably hold borrowing costs at 2.5 percent this
week after cutting in May, as speculation the U.S. may reduce
stimulus weakens regional currencies including the peso and won.  “Central banks in the region have scope to extend their
accommodative policies with inflation remaining benign,” said
Glenn Levine, a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney.
“Most economies will remain below potential until we see a
stronger recovery in the U.S. and in Europe, which we don’t
expect until 2014.”  International money managers pulled about $2.3 billion from
Southeast Asia after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
said May 22 policy makers could consider scaling back stimulus
if the employment outlook shows sustainable improvement.  The Philippine stock index has fallen 6.9 percent since
then, while the peso has dropped 3.8 percent. Indonesia’s rupiah
forwards slid yesterday to the weakest level since August 2009.  Bubble Risks  Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono is battling a
persistent current-account deficit that’s hurt the rupiah, while
the  economy  expanded last quarter at the weakest pace in more
than two years. The government plans to raise fuel prices after
completing its 2013 budget revisions by June 17, Coordinating
Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa said last week. Protests
derailed plans to increase the fuel costs last year.  The central bank is “moving toward a tightening bias” as
the planned fuel-price increase adds risks to inflation and
economic stability, Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo said May 22.
Using the benchmark rate would be the “most credible” response
to damp price expectations, Deputy Governor Halim Alamsyah said
last week.  Investment Grade  Still, “the BI rate policy will likely hinge on the fuel
price decision,” said  Helmi Arman , an economist at Citigroup
Inc., who predicts no change in the reference rate this week. He
forecasts the central bank will raise its benchmark and the rate
it pays lenders on overnight deposits, known as the Fasbi, after
a fuel-price increase is implemented.  The Philippines, which won its first investment-grade
rankings from Fitch Ratings and Standard and Poor’s this year,
has stepped up efforts to slow capital inflows and avert asset-bubble risks. Policy makers have cut the SDA rate three times
this year and relaxed curbs on dollar purchases.  Bangko Sentral is considering further curbs on property
loans to prevent a bubble, and will assess the need for more
adjustments to SDAs, Governor Amando Tetangco said last month.
SDAs held 1.9 trillion pesos ($44 billion) as of  May 17 , more
than six times the 286 billion pesos in the overnight facility.  The central bank will probably lower the SDA rate to 1.5 
percent from 2 percent, according to seven of 16 economists 
surveyed, with two predicting a cut to 1.75 percent, and the 
rest forecasting no change. Policy makers will keep the 
benchmark overnight rate at 3.5 percent, according to all 20 
economists surveyed.  Philippine growth was among the fastest in Asia last 
quarter, with gross domestic product rising 7.8 percent from a
year earlier, as President Benigno Aquino boosted spending and
investment surged. Ayala Land Inc., DMCI Holdings Inc. and
Megaworld Corp. are among companies building homes and offices.  Domestic Demand  “Given the existing strength of domestic demand, further
cuts to the SDA rate could place the economy at risk of
overheating,” said Philip McNicholas, an economist at BNP
Paribas SA in Hong Kong. While the BSP will keep its rates on
hold, “slowing regional growth may prompt a more cautious
tone.”  China ’s trade, inflation and lending data for May trailed
estimates, signaling weaker global and domestic demand. The
South Korean central bank will probably keep its benchmark rate
unchanged on June 13, all 15 economists  predict .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Munoz in Hong Kong at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  