-- Bloomberg to Propose Spending Billions to Reduce Storm Risk
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-06-10T19:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/bloomberg-to-propose-spending-billions-to-mitigate-storm-risks.html
Almost eight months after  Hurricane
Sandy  flooded  New York ’s subways, destroyed homes and blacked
out half of Manhattan, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  will propose
spending billions of dollars to mitigate storm risk along the
city’s more than 500 miles of coastline.  Mindful of environmental scientists’ predictions that sea
levels around the city may rise 12 to 55 inches by 2080, the
mayor tomorrow will unveil a  capital spending  plan to mitigate
the dangers, his office said.  “As bad as Sandy was, future storms could be even worse,”
the mayor said in remarks prepared for delivery tomorrow.
“Because of rising temperatures and sea levels, even a storm
that’s not as large as Sandy could be -- down the road -- even
more destructive.”  By mid-century, as much as one-quarter of New York’s land
area, where 800,000 residents live, will be in a flood plain,
the mayor plans to say.  Today, in advance of the proposals, Deputy Mayor Caswell Holloway and Seth Pinsky, president of the city Economic
Development Corp., briefed reporters in  City Hall  about the
severity of the city’s vulnerability. They oversaw a  task force 
created to assess the city’s long-term needs.  Sandy’s Destruction  Their assessments came in response to Sandy, which brought
a record 14-foot (4.3-meter)  storm surge  to Lower Manhattan in
October. It flooded seven subway tunnels, immersed electrical
substations, shut down the financial district and killed power
south of 35th Street. All five boroughs bore its brunt in the
city of 8 million. The storm killed more than 100 people in the
U.S, 42 in New York City, and damaged more than 300,000 homes.  Members of the task force found that federal flood maps
don’t take into account the impact of storm surges and the
accelerating rise in the sea level. They sketched scenarios of
weather events hitting the city’s food supply. Heat waves and
droughts could cause power outages and public health crises,
they said.  “All of this is assuming we do nothing,” Holloway said.
“There’s a real cost to inaction.”  The infrastructure proposals would amount to billions of
dollars in capital spending, some of which would be paid for
through the sale of municipal bonds, said Lauren Passalacqua, a
mayoral spokeswoman.  Bond Risk  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said the storm caused
billions of dollars to city and state property, plus the costs
of clean-up, law-enforcement overtime and repairs to
infrastructure owned by the transit agencies and water and sewer
authorities. Almost all those costs were reimbursed through
federal aid, officials have said.  The potential of another catastrophic storm led the state
to include climate change as a risk for bondholders in a March
offering statement. New York advised investors to note that
“significant long-term planning and investment by the federal
government, state and municipalities may be needed to adapt
existing infrastructure to the risks posed by climate change.”  In January, the Democratic governor proposed spending as
much as $29 billion to build storm barriers in New York Harbor,
and two new rail tunnels under the  Hudson River . Gates that
would close against a storm surge would be similar to those in
 London  and  St. Petersburg , Russia, according to a  report  Cuomo
commissioned.  The report concluded that  New York City ’s tunnels and
depots for subways and buses lacked protection against flooding
and required more ability to pump out water. New technology
providing inflatable cylinder-shaped water gates may provide a
practical solution to plugging the entrance of tunnels from
flooding, it said.  The mayor, a 71-year-old independent, is founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  