-- BMW Tops Mercedes in Vehicle Registrations, Polk Says
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-06-10T19:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/bmw-tops-mercedes-in-vehicle-registrations-polk-says.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW,
trailing  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz in U.S. luxury vehicle sales
so far this year, exceeded its German counterpart in first-quarter new U.S. vehicle registrations.  U.S. buyers registered 67,385 BMW vehicles through March
this year, compared with Mercedes’s 62,366, according to
researcher R.L. Polk & Co., which tracks state by state records.
Sales for the BMW brand totaled 64,902 in the same period,
compared with 69,187 for Mercedes. The reverse was true for
2012, when BMW won the sales crown with a late surge while
Mercedes had more new registrations.  “Generally, the two makes track very closely to one
another,” Tom Libby, lead North American analyst for
Southfield, Michigan-based Polk, said in an e-mail. “A new
model launch or redesign can help one make in a particular
month. But, as we have seen the last two years, a lot can change
very quickly at the end of the year.”  Vehicles can be reported as sold when delivered to
dealerships to be used for test drives and loaner cars in
addition to those actually bought by consumers. Automakers
report U.S. vehicle sales within a few days of the end of a
month. New vehicle registration data usually lag sales data by
about 40 days, Libby said.  The sales and registration results don’t include Stuttgart,
Germany-based Daimler’s cargo vans and Smart cars and BMW’s Mini
brand, which aren’t  luxury vehicles . On that basis, Mercedes has
reported U.S. sales of 117,535 vehicles this year through May
compared with 113,357 for BMW.  The two German automakers are vying to be the top luxury-auto brand in the U.S. after outselling  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
Lexus the past two years. Munich-based BMW vaulted to its second
consecutive U.S. luxury crown in 2012. Lexus was the top-selling
luxury brand in the U.S. for 11 years until natural disasters in
 Asia  curtailed production in 2011.  Polk agreed to be acquired by Englewood, Colorado-based  IHS
Inc. (IHS)  for $1.4 billion, IHS said in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  