-- BNP Polish Unit Plans Share Sale to Increase Freefloat
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2013-06-10T08:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/bnp-polish-unit-plans-share-sale-to-increase-freefloat.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ’s  Polish unit  plans a
public offering of shares within the next few weeks to meet the
Polish financial regulator’s requirement to increase its stock’s
freefloat on the Warsaw Stock Exchange to 15 percent.  The bank will sell as many as 8.58 million shares in “the
middle of 2013,” Warsaw-based BNP Paribas Bank Polska said in
an e-mailed statement distributed by NBS Communications today.
Its current freefloat is 0.1 percent, while the stake’s market
value is 715.4 million zloty ($222 million), based on a  closing
price  on June 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The offering follows the 4.89 billion-zloty sale of a stake
in its bigger competitor Bank Zachodni WBK SA by KBC Groep NV
and Banco Santander SA in March. Earlier this year the Polish
government sold a 5.24 billion-zloty stake in PKO Bank Polski
SA, the country’s biggest lender, and  Italy ’s UniCredit SpA sold
a 3.73 billion-zloty holding in its Bank Pekao SA unit.  BNP’s “ambition is to steadily build a strong, universal
bank in the Polish market” that “would rank among the top ten
banks with a market share of approximately 5 percent by
assets,” according to its Polish unit’s statement.  The lender, which owns 225 branches in  Poland , plans to
boost revenue between 6 percent to 8 percent annually in the
next three to four years, while its cost-to-income ratio is to
fall below 60 percent from 74 percent last year, it said today.
Return on equity from Polish operations will exceed 10 percent
compared with last year’s 1.9 percent.  The unit’s first-quarter net income jumped to 30.8 million
zloty from 9.9 million zloty a year earlier, while total loans
amounted to 16.6 billion zloty. Its solvency ratio, a measure of
its capital strength, is above 12 percent and loans amount to
110 percent of deposits, it said.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  is the offering’s global coordinator and
joint bookrunner, while ING Bank NV, BRE Bank SA and Santander
act as co-lead managers, BNP said. The bank will publish its
share sale details in a prospectus after the document is
approved by the Polish financial regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  