-- Bond Buffer Seen in Demand for Swaps Collateral: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-06-10T15:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/bond-buffer-seen-in-demand-for-swaps-collateral-credit-markets.html
New collateral rules for  hedge
funds , insurers and others in the $633 trillion over-the-counter
 derivatives market  are poised to boost demand for U.S.
Treasuries, potentially slowing rising  yields  as the  Federal
Reserve  considers scaling back unprecedented stimulus.  Swaps traders will need to come up with $800 billion to
$4.6 trillion to meet Dodd-Frank Act regulations requiring that
the derivatives be backed by clearinghouses that collect upfront
collateral such as cash or Treasuries, according to estimates
from the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee. The regulations
take effect today for the second group of firms designated by
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in the market for
interest-rate and credit-default swaps.  “This is going to be a new, very powerful engine that
drives demand for Treasuries, so you have to expect it will
impact yields,” said Ted Leveroni, executive director of
derivatives strategy at New York-based trade-processer Omgeo
LLC. “There are a lot of firms out there -- I know because
they’ve told me -- that are concerned about having the available
collateral.”  The rush for collateral may be an unintended benefit from
swaps rules designed to protect against a cascade of  bank
failures .  Rising Yields  Mounting speculation that an improving economy will prompt
Fed policy makers to taper $85 billion of monthly purchases of
Treasuries and government-backed mortgage bonds triggered the
biggest jump in 10-year Treasury yields since December 2010 last
month. The yield reached 2.23 percent on May 29, the highest
intraday level since April 2012.  The rise in the benchmark interest-rate helped fuel the
biggest loss in U.S. investment-grade company bonds since the
2008 financial crisis, with the debt declining 2.28 percent in
May on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index.  Clearinghouses seek to limit the effects of a user default
by obtaining up-front margin and requiring additional collateral
based on daily swings in market values.  Backing trades with collateral will transform a group of
tightly interconnected banks and money managers into a more
structured marketplace, CFTC chairman  Gary Gensler  said in an
interview in New York last week.  ‘Better System’  “It’s quite possible that there’s a tremendous amount of
efficiencies when large financial institutions bring their swaps
into one or two or three clearinghouses, rather than have these
bilateral relationships,” he said. While “it has a cost,” he
said, “it’s a far better system.”  Privately negotiated swaps complicated regulators’ efforts
to resolve the 2008 financial crisis, which pushed Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., one of the biggest dealers, into
bankruptcy and prompted a government rescue of American
International Group Inc., which had amassed bets on the U.S.
housing market using  credit derivatives .  The world’s largest swaps dealers including JPMorgan Chase
& Co., Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Plc, as well as active
traders in the market, have been required by the CFTC to clear
most of their trades since March 11. A third group of firms
including pension plans will be phased into the clearing mandate
in September. Only trades done after the effective dates must be
cleared.  Treasury Anchor  “The demand-supply mismatch for high-quality debt is going
to be an ongoing structural trend going forward that will help
anchor short-term Treasuries,” Jerome Schneider, head of the
short-term strategies and money-markets desk at  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a
June 4 telephone interview. “Even if the Fed were to come in
and adjust their monetary policy tomorrow, the short end of the
Treasury yield curve will remain pinned.”  Demand for high-quality collateral to meet clearing
mandates could reach $1.8 trillion to $4.6 trillion in
“stressed” markets, according to industry  estimates  compiled
by the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee, consisting of bond
dealers and investors who meet quarterly with the Treasury
Department.  Treasuries, government-backed mortgage bonds and some
guaranteed asset-backed securities are among the types of debt
instruments the committee said were deemed as “high quality.”  Global Regulation  Total demand stemming from additional collateral that will
be needed to meet all new market regulations and global capital
and liquidity rules for banks may reach $11.2 trillion,
according to estimates by the committee in documents presented
at its May meeting with Treasury officials.  “Yields are going down,” Nancy Davis, managing partner of
Quadratic Capital and the former director of derivatives at
AllianceBernstein Holding LP, said in a May 30 telephone
interview. With automatic federal spending cuts this year, known
as sequestration, and the potential for another congressional
stalemate over the debt ceiling, “there has not been that much
collateral being issued by the Treasury. And you are going to
have huge collateral needs specifically for Treasuries.”  Rates for short-term government debt instruments, from
bills to  repurchase agreements , have already been falling this
year even as long-term Treasury yields rise given a shortage of
collateral.  Bill Shortage  After the government’s need for emergency cash in 2008 and
2009 pushed short-term  Treasury bills  outstanding to $2.1
trillion, the supply has since fallen to $1.7 trillion, or 14.1
 percent  of the government’s $11.4 trillion of  marketable debt 
outstanding. That compares with a peak of 34.4 percent in
December 2008. Securities maturing in three years or less have
fallen to 49.5 percent this year from 60.2 percent in 2008,
according to the Treasury.  The one-month Treasury bill rate dropped to negative 0.0051
percent on May 6, moving below zero for the first time since
December. The rate was 0.0355 percent on June 7. The overnight
Treasury  repo rate , measured by the Depository Trust & Clearing
Corp. general-collateral finance repo index, fell to 0.016
percent on May 29, the lowest since December 2011 and down from
0.29 percent at the end of 2012.  As the CFTC phase-in of the swaps rules has continued, CME
Group Inc., the world’s largest futures market, has seen demand
for its clearing service rise. While about 20 money managers
began clearing trades at swaps clearinghouses around the world
in March, Chicago-based CME had 118 firms clearing rates and
credit swaps through its service in May, said Laurent Paulhac,
senior managing director for financial and OTC products and
services. About 540 firms have indicated they are interested in
clearing trades with CME, he said.  Stocks, Gold  Other collateral that can be posted to back cleared swap
trades includes stocks, corporate bonds and gold, all of which
are given greater discounts, or haircuts, than Treasuries,
diluting their value in a collateral arrangement.  Having a broader pool of assets available will alleviate
pressure on the Treasury market, said Charley Cooper, head of
clearing in  North America  for State Street Global Markets LLC.  “I don’t believe any clearinghouse believes the cash and
government bonds model is the only one,” he said. “The old
view that government debt stood head and shoulders above
corporate debt is no longer held as conventional wisdom.”  Bond Discounts  At CME, corporate bonds used as collateral are discounted
20 percent, while equities face a 30 percent haircut. As the
industry has prepared over the last three years for the clearing
mandate, the fears of a collateral crunch have diminished
somewhat, Cooper said.  “The general feeling is the collateral need, while
significant, are less of a disaster than initially
anticipated,” he said.  Swaps users won some relief last week with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, which is regulating swaps
tied to single securities, revising a measure that called for
some to put up double the collateral dealers post for portfolio
margin accounts at Atlanta-based IntercontinentalExchange Inc.
The banks instead will be able to collect collateral from
clients according to clearinghouse rules for six months.  Not every firm that must start clearing today is ready,
either because they don’t have their systems connected to
dealers and clearinghouses or because they don’t have legal
documents in place, according to CME’s Paulhac, Cooper of State
Street and Leveroni.  Banks Swamped  Leveroni said it can take six to 10 months to obtain legal
documents to establish client-to-dealer clearing relationships
and banks have been swamped with work. A majority of Omgeo’s
derivatives clients fall into the category that must begin
clearing swaps today, he said.  “I joke that for the first time there aren’t enough
lawyers in  New York ,” he said.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Punch Taverns Plc, the owner
of more than 4,000 U.K. pubs, changed the terms of its proposed
2.3 billion-pound ($3.6 billion) debt restructuring as it seeks
to win support from bondholders. The cost to protect against
losses on corporate bonds in the U.S. rose for the first time in
three days.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses or
to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 1.7 basis points to 82.7
basis points at 11:50 a.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe Swaps  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings climbed 3 to 107.1.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 0.1 basis point to 18 basis points. The
gauge typically narrows when investors favor assets such as
corporate debt and widens when they seek the perceived safety of
 government securities .  Bonds of New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are the
most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers today, accounting for 3.5 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Punch Restructuring  Punch Taverns’ revised proposal includes faster repayments
of its senior notes, limits on the amount of cash that can be
removed from bonds securitizing income from the pubs, and an
offer to buy back some higher-ranking securities, according to a
statement from the company. The offer  cuts  Punch’s total debt
service payments by more than 600 million pounds in the next
five years.  Senior noteholders rejected an earlier deal because they
said it didn’t address the business’s operational issues or
provide a way for the debt to be refinanced or repaid. The
Staffordshire, England-based company proposed a restructuring in
February to delay repayments to one of its securitizations and
cut the size of the other by 229 million pounds through a deal
with junior bondholders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  