-- BSG Resources Says Former Adviser FTI Agrees to Pay Compensation
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-06-10T12:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/bsg-resources-says-former-adviser-fti-agrees-to-pay-compensation.html
BSG Resources Ltd. , a company
controlled by Israeli billionaire Beny Steinmetz, said its
former public relations adviser FTI Consulting LLP has agreed to
pay “substantial compensation” and legal costs to settle
actions brought earlier this year.  The damages paid will be donated to “charities and good
causes working in Guinea,” BSG Resources said today in an e-mailed statement, without giving a figure. FTI Consulting said
in a separate statement the claims were settled for 90,000 euros
($120,000) “without any admission of liability.”  BSGR filed a lawsuit in a London court two months ago that
claimed FTI was involved in a campaign linked to  George Soros 
that sought to strip BSGR of rights to an iron ore project in
Guinea. BSGR claimed that FTI was pressured to drop its contract
to provide public relations advice to the mining company by Mark
Malloch-Brown, its chairman for  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa 
and who has links to Soros.  Both FTI and Malloch-Brown have denied the claims brought
against them “in their entirety as baseless and without any
merit,” FTI said in its statement.  BSGR said in March that Guinea was preparing to remove
mining rights from its joint venture with Vale SA, which planned
a $10 billion operation. A U.S. grand jury in April indicted a
French citizen who the Guinea government has said has ties to
BSGR. Frederic Cilins, 50, has been accused of interfering with
an investigation into bribes paid for mining rights in Guinea.  BSGR has denied any wrongdoing and Cilins has pleaded not
guilty.  The case in London is BSG Resources v. FTI Consulting,  High
Court  of Justices, Queen’s  Bench Division .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  