-- HTC Said to Prepare Mini One Smartphone in Samsung Challenge
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-06-10T08:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/htc-said-to-prepare-mini-one-smartphone-in-challenge-to-samsung.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , the Taiwanese smartphone
maker that posted record-low profit last quarter, is preparing
to release a smaller version of its flagship One handset this
summer, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The new model features a 4.3-inch screen, compared with 4.7
inches for the original version, and will go on sale by August,
according to two people briefed on the plans who asked not to be
identified because details aren’t public. The device will
probably have a less-powerful  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  processor and lower-resolution screen than the flagship, said one of the people.  HTC One, which was released in the U.S. in April, helped
the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company post sales in May that were
its strongest monthly result in almost a year. The smaller
version seeks to reclaim market share from  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) , the world’s largest smartphone maker which last month
unveiled the Galaxy S4 mini, a less-powerful version of the
flagship handset released in April.  HTC declined to comment in an e-mailed response to
 Bloomberg News .  Made with a thin aluminum case, the original HTC One
includes an UltraPixel camera, full high-definition screen and
front-facing speakers. The device was described by  New York 
Times reviewer  David Pogue  as “ gorgeous ” and by Bloomberg’s
 Rich Jaroslovsky  as “state of the art.”  At least six  brokers  upgraded their recommendation on HTC
since the One was unveiled in February.  Offering a smaller version may help the company keep its
momentum and compete with Samsung’s slimmed-down device and
ahead of a low-cost iPhone expected to be unveiled by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
next quarter.  IPhone Competition  With a plastic case and less-expensive components, Pegatron
Corp. will manufacture the new iPhone for a retail price of
about $300 to $350, Fubon Financial Holding Co. analyst Arthur Liao said last month.  Product delays, marketing failures and management changes
marked a 68 percent  drop in HTC’s sales  in six quarters,
culminating in a 98 percent decline in first-quarter net income.
The stock is down 9 percent in Taipei this year after annual
declines of at least 39 percent in each of the past two years.  HTC’s global smartphone share dropped to 2.4 percent in the
first quarter, from 6.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011,
according data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. The company
last week reported May  sales  of NT$29 billion, the highest since
June 2012.  The company today said Lorain Wong would become global head
of public relations with responsibility for media and analyst
communications, according to an e-mailed statement.  Wong, who joins from Hong Kong-based submarine cable
operator Pacnet Ltd., will report to Chief Marketing Officer Ben Ho, the company said.  HTC is rated sell by 15 of the 33 analysts tracked by
Bloomberg, while nine have a buy recommendation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 