-- Canada Housing Starts Rise at Fastest Pace in 13 Months
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-06-10T12:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/canada-may-housing-starts-at-annual-rate-of-200-178-units.html
Canadian housing starts rose at
their fastest pace in more than a year in May on a surge in
condominium construction, Ottawa-based  Canada  Mortgage & Housing
Corp. said on its website today.  Work began on 200,178 units at a seasonally adjusted annual
pace in May, up 13.8 percent from April and the highest level
since November. Economists forecast a reading of 179,100
according to the median of 18 responses to a Bloomberg News
survey. The increase was the biggest since April 2012.  Housing-market data are showing few signs of a sharp
correction even amid warnings from analysts and policy makers
that a bubble may have been forming. Finance Minister Jim Flaherty tightened mortgage rules for a fourth time last year on
concern that an overbuilding of condos could lead to sharp price
declines. Former Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney identified
record household debt as the biggest domestic risk to the
economy.  Today’s data suggest home construction in the second
quarter “could be less of a drag than seen in the prior
quarter,” Emanuella Enenajor, an economist in Toronto at CIBC
World Markets, said in a note to investors. Still, she said “we
continue to see this sector struggling on weak secondary market
activity, the fading impact of low rates and buyer fatigue.”  Home construction, which helped lift Canada’s economy out
of recession, has been a drag on growth over the past year,
according to Statistics Canada data. Construction fell in the
first quarter at an annualized 4.7 percent pace, the third-straight drop, the Statistics Agency reported May 31.  Multiple-unit housing  starts  in urban areas rose 22.2
percent in May to a pace of 114,346 units, according to the CMHC
report, while single-unit work increased by 3 percent to 62,888
units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  