-- Canadian Dollar Rises as Housing Increases More Than Forecast
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-06-10T21:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/canadian-dollar-rises-as-housing-starts-are-forecast-to-increase.html
The Canadian dollar rose against the
majority of its most traded peers as new-home construction
increased at the fastest pace in more than a year in May, adding
to evidence the housing market is regaining momentum.  The currency was little changed against its U.S.
counterpart after its biggest gain in a year and a half versus
its U.S. peer last week as a surge of hiring in construction led
to  Canada  posting its biggest jobs gain in a decade in May.
Canadian housing starts were 200,178 units at a seasonally
adjusted annual pace in May, according to the Ottawa-based
Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp. Policy makers have taken steps
in the past year to head off a housing bubble.  “It’s really hot data, but you had really hot employment
data too, so when you combine the two, it’s hard to call it a
bubble,” said  Greg Anderson , head of global foreign exchange
strategy at Bank of Montreal by phone from  New York . “I would
say CAD is just quietly bid here.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known, was little
changed against its U.S. peer at C$1.0194 per  U.S. dollar  at 5
p.m. in Toronto. One loonie buys 98.10 U.S. cents.  Market Levels  The Canadian dollar is trading above its 50-day moving
average of C$1.0205 per U.S. dollar and below its 100-day moving
average of C$1.0174. When a currency crosses a moving average
some traders take it as a sign the currency has momentum to
continue the move.  Canada’s 10-year government  bonds  fell, with yields rising
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.20 percent. The
1.5 percent note maturing in June 2023 declined 48 cents to
C$93.77.  Crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 0.3 percent to
C$95.76 per barrel and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S.
stocks was little changed. The  discount  Canadian oil producers
face compared to the U.S. benchmark narrowed to $12.75 per
barrel, the least since April.  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. peer fell to its lowest point in more than a
week. The one-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate fell
to 1.43, its lowest level since May 31. Risk reversals measure
the premium on options contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus
buying U.S. contracts that do the opposite.  Trading Range  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart traded at 7.39 percent, its
lowest point in three weeks. Implied volatility, which traders
quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings.  Housing-market data are showing few signs of a sharp
correction even amid warnings from analysts and policy makers
that a bubble may have been forming. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  tightened mortgage rules for a fourth time last year on
concern that an overbuilding of condos could lead to sharp price
declines. Former Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  identified
record  household debt  as the biggest domestic risk to the
economy.  “It doesn’t surprise me that the initial reaction to
something like that is positive,” said David Doyle, a
strategist at Macquarie Capital Markets, by phone from Toronto.
“If you look at it in the medium term, this could be
problematic for the economy and problematic for policy makers.
Growth in residential investment is not the kind of growth our
economy needs, it’s not the kind of growth policy makers are
looking for.”  Housing Construction  Home construction, which helped lift Canada’s economy out
of recession, has been a drag on growth over the past year,
according to Statistics Canada data. Construction fell in the
first quarter at an annualized 4.7 percent pace, the third-straight drop, the Statistics Agency reported May 31.  Economists forecast a reading of 179,100 housing starts,
according to the median of 18 responses to a Bloomberg News
survey.  The Canadian dollar has fallen in the past month along with
the currencies of its commodity-exporting cousins Australia and
 New Zealand  among a basket of 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The loonie
has declined 0.9 percent, trailing the 6.1 percent and 5.2
percent drops in the Australian and New Zealand dollars. All
other currencies in the index have gained, led by the Japanese
yen’s 3.3 percent increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  