-- Car Carriers Fill Up as Global Trade Expands to Record: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-06-10T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/car-carriers-fill-up-as-global-trade-expands-to-record-freight.html
Seaborne shipments of vehicles are
rising to a record as the U.S. imports the most in five years,
making car carriers profitable at a time when most of the
merchant fleet is losing money.  Global trade will advance 7.2 percent to 23.27 million
vehicles this year, according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the largest
shipbroker. U.S. imports will expand 3.6 percent to 3.75 million
units, the company estimates. Shares of  Wilh. Wilhelmsen ASA (WWASA) ,
the biggest operator of car carriers, will gain 12 percent in 12
months in Oslo trading, the average of eight analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Even with expanding U.S. imports, domestic automakers are
still winning, with light-vehicle sales on pace for the best
year since 2007. The extra shipments are compensating for
weakness in  Europe , where recession is battering a region that
accounts for about 30 percent of global trade. Wilhelmsen will
haul 20 million cubic meters (706 million cubic feet) of cargo
in the fourth quarter, compared with 17.5 million in the first
three months, ABG Sundal Collier Norge ASA estimates.  “Right now, the U.S. is the most important thing for the
car-carrier market because of what’s going on in Europe,” said
Marius Magelie, an analyst at ABG Sundal Collier in Oslo whose
recommendations on the shares of shipping companies returned 11
percent in the past year. “Higher volumes mean higher  earnings 
and a better fleet utilization.”  Shipping Industry  The U.S. car industry is booming after General Motors Co.
and Chrysler Group LLC emerged from bankruptcy in 2009. The
federal government spent $80 billion to bail out the industry.
Including suppliers and dealers, it employs 8 million people and
accounts for 3 to 3.5 percent of U.S. economic output, according
to the  Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers .  Shares of  Ford (F) , based in Dearborn, Michigan, rose 22
percent this year and will gain another 3.8 percent in 12
months, according to the average of 15 analyst estimates.
Detroit-based  GM (GM)  will extend the year’s 20 percent advance by 13
percent, the average of 20 estimates shows. Chrysler is
majority-owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , based in Turin,  Italy .  Sales in the U.S. are contributing to gains in exports from
 Asia  and Europe and diminishing spare capacity in the car-carrier fleet.  Japan ’s shipments will increase 5.9 percent to
5.19 million vehicles this year as  South Korea ’s sales expand
6.7 percent to 3.52 million, Clarkson estimates. European
volumes to North America will rise 7 percent to 1.23 million,
helping to offset a 2.5 percent decline in domestic demand,
according to LMC Automotive, a researcher in Troy,  Michigan .  Analysts’ Advice  Shares of Lysaker, Norway-based Wilhelmsen fell 5.8 percent
to 47.80 kroner since the start of January, after advancing 74
percent in 2012. They will rebound to 53.48 kroner in 12 months,
the  analyst estimates  show. While analysts expect Wilhelmsen to
report a 39 percent drop in net income for this year, 11 out of
15 recommend buying the shares as everything from oil tankers to
dry-bulk vessels hauling coal are unprofitable.  Wilhelmsen operates its own carriers and hires extra ships
when cargo volumes increase. The company benefits most when
demand expands “slightly faster” than the fleet because larger
capacity shortages increase its chartering costs, Magelie said.
It is currently running 145 carriers, which on a global average
are about 700 feet long and take 6,000 cars each.  Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101) , Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. and  Kawasaki
Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107) , all based in  Tokyo , are the biggest owners of
car carriers. Wilhelmsen says its strategy of hiring extra
capacity means it is the largest operator of the vessels. The
three Japanese companies also own and oversee  container ships ,
dry-bulk vessels, oil tankers and gas carriers.  Four Quarters  U.S. light-vehicle sales climbed 8.2 percent last month,
exceeding analyst estimates and boosting the annualized industry
sales rate to 15.3 million units, from 14 million in 2012,
according to Autodata Corp., a Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based
research company. The U.S. unemployment rate was 7.6 percent in
May, down from as much as 10 percent in 2009, and the economy
will accelerate for at least the next four quarters, estimates
from as many as 73 economists compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The U.S. will drive a lot of the growth,” said Jan Eyvin Wang, the president and chief executive officer of Wilhelmsen,
which has nine new ships on order and has scrapped older vessels
to keep the size of its fleet steady. “The volumes out of Asia
and Europe will be quite healthy.”  Overseas Suppliers  Shipments may weaken because the industry is moving
production to where vehicles are sold.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the
largest automaker by number of vehicles sold, made 19 percent of
its cars in  North America  in the fiscal year that ended in
March, from 15 percent in 2010,  data compiled by Bloomberg  show.
The three largest U.S. automakers added 1.2 percentage points of
American market share from overseas suppliers in the year to
May, the first simultaneous advance in at least 18 years.  Wilhelmsen and its industry peers also use car carriers to
transport high-and-heavy cargoes, an industry term to describe
vehicles such as bulldozers, diggers and fork-lift trucks. Those
shipments may weaken as mining companies curb spending after
commodities retreated. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
raw materials fell 30 percent since reaching a record in 2008.  Caterpillar Inc., the largest maker of mining equipment,
cut its 2013 earnings forecast to about $7 a share in April,
from a January projection of $7 to $9, citing lower-than-expected demand from commodities producers. About A$150 billion
($147 billion) of mines and projects have been delayed or
canceled in the past year in  Australia , the biggest iron-ore
shipper, the government estimates.  Merchant Fleet  Analysts expect car shipments to compensate for fewer high-and-heavy cargoes, projecting a 23 percent gain in Wilhelmsen’s
net profit to $306.3 million next year, from $248.5 million in
2013, the mean of 11 estimates shows.  That contrasts with most of the rest of the merchant fleet,
where a glut of capacity has driven shipping rates below what
owners need to break even. The ClarkSea Index, a measure of
industrywide earnings, averaged $8,684 a day in the first
quarter, the lowest since 1992. The gap between demand and
freight capacity was the widest in March since the early 1980s,
London-based Clarkson estimates.  Car carriers are faring better in part because owners
didn’t order as many new ships. The fleet expanded 18 percent
since the end of 2008, compared with a 26 percent gain in the
largest  oil tankers  and a more than doubling in the capacity of
Capesizes, which haul iron ore and coal, Clarkson data show.  “Wilhelmsen is one of the few blue-chip shipping companies
left, and they are in a very good position,” said Rune Sand, an
analyst at Carnegie AS in Oslo whose recommendations on the
shares of shipping companies returned 9 percent in the past six
months. “This is more of a stable business compared with
traditional commodity shipping.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  