-- Catamaran Gains Cigna’s Prescription Drug Business
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-06-11T20:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/catamaran-gains-cigna-s-prescription-drug-business.html
Catamaran Corp. (CTRX)  rose the most in 14
months after beating out rivals for a 10-year contract to manage
prescription drug benefits for  Cigna Corp. (CI) ’s clients.  Catamaran gained 11 percent to $53.99 at the close in New
York, the biggest single-day increase since April 18, 2012.
Cigna, the fourth-largest U.S. health insurer by market value,
rose 1.4 percent to $69.95.  Catamaran, which acts as a middleman among employers,
drugmakers and pharmacies by negotiating prices and managing
medicine use by workers, defeated larger competitors  CVS
Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and  Express Scripts Holding Co. (ESRX)  to win Cigna’s
business, Chief Executive Officer Mark Thierer said. The deal
announced late yesterday with Bloomfield, Connecticut-based
Cigna will be “very accretive” to Catamaran’s earnings,
Thierer said.  Cigna’s decision “validates our model and says we can
compete at the highest level in this marketplace, delivering a
flexible, customizable solution that competes economically and,
most important, helps large health plans like Cigna deliver on
their core strategy,” Thierer said in a telephone interview,
declining to elaborate on the terms.  Cigna said in a statement that the agreement is expected to
add 50 cents a share to its earnings in 2015. CEO David Cordani
had said the insurer was considering a variety of options for
its pharmacy-benefits business, including a sale of the unit.  Unbundled Services  Catamaran had a contract expiring this year to manage drug
benefits for Healthspring Inc., which Cigna acquired in January
2012. The deal extends and expands that contract to cover all 8
million of Cigna’s customers, the companies said.  Catamaran will replace  DST Systems Inc. (DST) ’s Argus Health
unit, which has been managing prescription benefits for Cigna’s
commercial customers, said Brooks O’Neil, a Minneapolis-based
analyst for Dougherty & Co. who follows Catamaran.  “I can’t see how this is going to be a positive for
them,” O’Neil said in a phone interview.  DST, based in  Kansas City , Missouri, fell 1.9 percent to
$66.56.  Catamaran prides itself on being willing to “unbundle”
services such as mail-order delivery and claims processing, and
sell them to clients a la carte, Thierer said. Cigna will handle
formulary management and customer service itself, and the
pharmacy benefits will carry Cigna’s brand name. Catamaran will
perform the “behind the scenes, back office” work, he said.  “This strategic PBM partnering agreement will complement
Cigna’s strengths of partnering with physicians to engage
customers in their overall health and wellness,” Cordani said
in the statement.  The deal “represents the most logical and optimal
decision” by Cigna about how to manage its pharmacy benefit
services, Thomas Gallucci, an analyst with Lazard Capital
Markets in  New York , said in a note to clients.  “We believe efficiencies can be maximized taking an
approach like” Cigna’s, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  