-- McDonald’s May Store Sales Rise as U.S. Gains
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-06-10T20:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/mcdonald-s-may-store-sales-rise-as-u-s-gains.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, said sales at stores open at least 13
months rose 2.6 percent last month, topping analysts’ estimates,
as the Dollar Menu and breakfast items drove the U.S. business.  Analysts projected a 1.9 percent increase, the average of
17 estimates compiled by Consensus Metrix. Same-store sales in
the U.S. advanced 2.4 percent, the Oak Brook, Illinois-based
company said today in a statement. Analysts estimated a 2.1
percent gain.  McDonald’s this year has tried to lure Americans with a
smattering of new items including chicken McWraps, different
kinds of Quarter Pounder burgers and an egg-white sandwich.
Chief Executive Officer  Don Thompson  said last month that the
chain is doing “more aggressive” advertising focused on the
menu. The U.S.  sales  jump marks an improvement from five
straight months of sales drops or gains of less than 1 percent.  “The U.S. numbers were a little bit better than what
people were expecting,” Peter Saleh, a New York-based analyst
at Telsey Advisory Group, said in an interview. “They’re going
to continue to roll out new products -- you’re going to probably
see more beverages.”  U.S. sales were helped by breakfast, chicken items and
“everyday value,” the company said in the statement. The new
egg-white breakfast sandwich and Premium McWraps also fueled May
sales.  McDonald’s rose 1.3 percent to $99.53 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  have increased 13 percent this year, while the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  has gained 16 percent.  Europe Gain  Store sales rose 2 percent in  Europe  and 0.9 percent in
Asia Pacific, the  Middle East  and  Africa . Analysts estimated
gains of 1.2 percent and 1.5 percent, respectively, according to
Consensus Metrix, a researcher owned by Wayne, New Jersey-based
Kaul Advisory Group.  McDonald’s is focused on selling favorites such as French
fries, burgers and chicken McNuggets, and will also roll out new
foods, Thompson said during an investor conference in New York
on May 29.  “We’ve gotten our menu back front and center,” he said.
“Our marketing is stronger, it’s more direct, it’s more
aggressive.”  Other U.S. restaurant chains are ramping up new menu item
introductions, too. Wendy’s Co. is selling flatbread chicken
sandwiches, while  Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW)  last month rolled
out a summer menu that includes a boneless rib sandwich, frozen
lemonade and sweet-potato fries.  China Declines  McDonald’s May same-store sales fell in  China , the company
said in the statement. Restaurants in the Asian nation have
faced a consumer backlash against chicken products since the
outbreak of avian flu earlier this year.  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , which owns KFC and  Pizza Hut , last month
said same-store sales tumbled 29 percent in April in China as
customers there remained concerned that poultry may not be safe
to eat. Yum, based in Louisville, Kentucky, is  scheduled  to
report May store sales for China tomorrow.  Same-store sales at McDonald’s locations in Japan rose 0.5
percent in May, the first monthly increase since March 2012.
Comparable, or same-store, sales are an indicator of a company’s
growth because they include only older restaurants.  McDonald’s has about 34,500 stores worldwide, including
more than 14,100 in the U.S. About 19 percent of locations are
owned by the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  