-- Chiesa Sworn in by Biden as New Jersey’s Temporary Senator
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-06-10T22:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/chiesa-sworn-in-by-biden-as-new-jersey-s-temporary-u-s-senator.html
Just in time for the debate on
immigration overhaul, Jeffrey Chiesa was sworn in by Vice
President  Joe Biden  as the new U.S. senator from New Jersey, a
post he’ll hold until an Oct. 16 special election.  “Senator Chiesa comes at a time when we are having some
momentous debates” particularly on immigration, New Jersey’s
other senator, Democrat Bob Menendez, said in a floor speech
welcoming his new colleague. Despite a short tenure, “he will
have an opportunity to cast some critical votes,” Menendez
said.  Chiesa was New Jersey’s attorney general until his June 6
appointment by Republican Governor Chris Christie to the seat
vacated by the death of Democrat  Frank Lautenberg .  Analysts say Chiesa can be expected to represent the policy
views of his political patron.  The newest senator “is going to be viewed as a proxy for
 Chris Christie ,” said Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich
Institute for New Jersey Politics at  Rider University  in
Lawrenceville. “This only really matters because the governor
seems intent on running for president in 2016,” Dworkin said in
a telephone interview.  On immigration, Chiesa said at a press conference last week
that as a former prosecutor, he considers border security to be
a priority. He said he hasn’t formed a view on whether Congress
should give 11 million undocumented immigrations a pathway to
citizenship.  Christie has said that deporting undocumented immigrants
isn’t a “practical plan.” He supports a “clear path” to
their legalization as part of a comprehensive rewrite of the
immigration laws.  ‘Getting Steady’  Chiesa told reporters that his transition from state
attorney general to U.S. senator in less than a week had left
him needing to work on “getting my legs steady underneath me.”  The new senator said he still has “work to do to learn
about the institution and about the issues.”  His first vote was to oppose an amendment to the farm bill,
S. 954, that would permit grants, loans or loan guarantees to
set up pilot projects to provide ultra-high-speed gigabit
Internet service to rural areas. The provision was adopted
48-38.  Chiesa “feels like he’s drinking from a fire hose” after
the day’s briefings, said Michael Ferguson, a former Republican
congressman from New Jersey who’s advising the new senator.  Chiesa, who was appointed attorney general by the governor,
isn’t running for the Republican nomination to fill the last 14
months of Lautenberg’s term.  Who’s Running  New Jersey Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver and U.S.
Representative  Frank Pallone  became the latest candidates to
enter the Aug. 13 primary for the  Democratic Party ’s Senate
nomination. Newark Mayor  Cory Booker  and Representative Rush Holt were already in the race.  Bogota Mayor Steve Lonegan so far is the lone Republican
candidate to succeed Lautenberg, who died June 3 at age 89.  A Quinnipiac University  poll  released today showed that
Booker leads the Democratic field with 53 percent of the vote,
followed by Holt’s 10 percent and 9 percent for Pallone. The
survey showed 23 percent undecided.  Booker leads Lonegan 54 percent to 27 percent, according to
poll.  Today, Christie appointed a member of his executive staff,
John Hoffman, to be acting attorney general. In  New Jersey ,
attorney general is an appointed position, subject to
legislative confirmation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  