-- China Approves Gold-Backed ETPs as Domestic Buyers Chase Bullion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-10T05:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/china-approves-gold-backed-etps-as-domestic-buyers-chase-bullion.html
China  approved two domestic
exchange-traded products backed by gold as global holdings of
the precious metal in ETPs dropped to a two-year low.  Huaan Asset Management Co. and Guotai Asset Management Co.
received the China Securities Regulatory Commission’s permission
to start the funds, which will be denominated in yuan, said Liu
Jianqiang and Li Yebin, spokesmen for Huaan and Guotai. They
will be traded like stocks on the  Shanghai Stock Exchange (SHCOMP) ,
tracking movements of  spot gold  on the  Shanghai  Gold Exchange,
Liu and Li said separately by telephone from Shanghai.  Gold slid into a  bear market  in April amid concern the U.S.
Federal Reserve may rein in stimulus that helped bullion cap a
12-year bull run in 2012 and as investors reduced holdings in
exchange-traded products backed by the metal. Buyers in mainland
China viewed the rout as buying opportunity and rushed to
purchase jewelry, bars and coins in late April and early May.  “Gold ETFs should help boost gold demand as they will make
Chinese investments in the bullion much easier,” Zhang Bingnan,
secretary-general of the China Gold Association, said by phone
from Beijing today. “The dumping recently of holdings in gold
exchange-traded products by overseas investors may not prove to
be a wise move.”  Huaan and Guotai haven’t started raising money for the
funds yet and didn’t give an indication of their potential size,
according to the spokesman. Two calls to the China Securities
Regulatory Commission went answered today, which is a holiday in
China.  Gold futures are traded on Shanghai Futures Exchange and
spot and deferred delivery contracts traded on the Shanghai Gold
Exchange.  Custodian Banks  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  will be the custodian bank
for the Huaan gold ETF,  Liu said.  Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China Ltd. (601398)  will play the same role for the Guotai, according
to Li.  Holdings in gold-backed  exchange-traded products  shrank 19
percent this year as investors cut 496 tons of the metal,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We think the timing is pretty good after the recent
decline because gold prices have got close to the cost of
production, limiting downside risks,” Liu at Huaan said.  Gold slid as much as 31 percent from a record in September
2011 through April 16, when it slumped to $1,321.95 an ounce.  Bullion traded at $1,385.99 at 12:30 p.m. in Shanghai. Gold
of 99.99 percent purity on the Shanghai Gold Exchange traded at
281.05  yuan  a gram ($1,425 an ounce) on June 7.  The premium gold buyers in China pay to take immediate
delivery of bullion jumped four-fold as physical demand surged.
In the 12 months through April 12, before the rout, spot gold in
China traded at an average premium of $7.22 an ounce to the
global price, according to the Shanghai Gold Exchange. The
premium averaged $33 an ounce from mid-April through May.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  