-- Christie Senate-Election Call May Boost Republican Bids
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-06-10T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/christie-senate-election-call-may-boost-republican-bids.html
Governor Chris Christie’s call for
an October vote to fill a  U.S. Senate  seat may help Republican
state lawmakers in  New Jersey ’s general election less than three
weeks later by giving Democratic voters a reason not to show up.  The call lets the Republican governor avoid appearing on a
Nov. 5 ballot below a Senate race in which a popular Democrat,
such as Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , would have figured
prominently. Should Christie’s supporters flock to the polls in
November, his party may make gains in the legislature, where no
incumbent Democrat has lost a re-election bid since 2007.  Christie, 50, will top the November ticket that includes
all 120 legislative seats. Lawmakers in his party are banking on
his success filtering down to other races. He leads state
Senator Barbara Buono, a 59-year-old lawyer from Metuchen and
his Democratic challenger, by more than 30 percentage points in
several recent polls and has raised twice as much money.  “He’s exhausting Democratic resources and making it harder
for the party to marshal them on Election Day, when there will
be a lot of other candidates on the ballot,” said Ben Dworkin,
director of the Rebovich Institute of New Jersey Politics at
 Rider University  in Lawrenceville. “He’s wasting Democratic
time, money and depressing turnout.”  Governor’s Coattails  Republicans can use the help. Democrats hold an edge of
48-32 in the Assembly and 24-16 in the Senate. The party’s
registered members outnumber Republicans by more than 700,000,
while independents top both. New Jersey voters have backed
Democrats for president since 1992 and haven’t sent a Republican
to the U.S. Senate since 1972.  Against this backdrop of Democratic strength, Republicans
in the legislature think they have a realistic shot at picking
up as many as five seats this year, thanks in part to Christie’s
special-election call. The effect also may trickle down to local
council races, should the governor’s campaign bring out
Republican-leaning voters statewide.  “It’s always good to share a ticket with Governor
Christie,” said the Senate’s top Republican, Minority Leader
Tom Kean of Westfield. “The governor will have coattails.”  The Democratic lock on the legislature has forced Christie
to cede some ground in negotiations over a tax cap and recasting
state pensions and retiree benefits. It has also stymied his
efforts to cut levies and ban payouts to public employees for
unused sick time.  Targeted Districts  Heading toward November, Republicans have targeted four
districts where they contend a small change in the electoral
balance would produce wins for their candidates. In January,
Kean said in a memo that the party could win the seats. At least
three more have been identified as in play, including the one
Buono gave up to challenge Christie.  U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a five-term Democrat, died
June 3 of viral pneumonia, and Christie called for the special
election the next day. That set off a rush to win the seat.  Christie could have appointed an interim replacement to
serve the remaining 18 months of Lautenberg’s term. Instead, he
named a temporary senator, state Attorney General Jeff Chiesa,
to serve until an October election.  The governor prompted criticism by not setting the special
election to occur with the general balloting on Nov. 5, forcing
the state to spend an extra $12 million for the earlier vote. A
primary would have been required for either an October or
November date.  Senate Rush  Christie denied that politics drove his call.  “My consideration was to look at what my options were and
to make the best and most legally defensible choice I could
make,” Christie told reporters June 6. He said state law isn’t
clear on the subject, leading him to set the election for the
earliest possible date, Oct. 16, with party primaries on Aug. 13
-- giving candidates less than a week to qualify for the ballot.  U.S. Representative Rush Holt was the first Democrat to
declare his candidacy on June 6, followed by Booker on June 8.
Congressman  Frank Pallone  also has expressed interest. Steven Lonegan, a former mayor of Bogota, is the only Republican to
jump in. Today is the deadline to qualify for the primary.  Presidential politics also may have been afoot in the
timing of the special election, according to analysts such as
 Jennifer Duffy , who tracks governors and the U.S. Senate for the
Washington-based Cook Political Report.  Patrick Murray , director
of the Monmouth University polling institute in  West Long
Branch , New Jersey, said Christie wanted to give himself the
chance for amassing the biggest margin of victory he could.  Strengthening Position  The coattail effect he may provide to Republicans seeking
legislative and local offices would let him start a second term
from a position of greater strength, with more allies in office,
Duffy said. Both that and a landslide win may help his political
future more than an 18-month Senate appointment, she said.  “One group of Republicans that is happy with him right now
is Republican state legislators,” Duffy said in an interview.
“It would be a more powerful argument to make in a primary than
a senate seat.”  Frank Balles, a Republican running to unseat Democratic
incumbent James Whelan in an Atlantic City-area senate race,
said he isn’t focused on the top of the ticket. While he said
the absence of a Democrat of Booker or Pallone’s stature on the
top of the ballot is one less issue for local Republicans to
worry about, each campaign is fought individually and voters
will split tickets.  “ Chris Christie ’s a very strong candidate and he’ll help
to pull a lot of votes to the Republican side of the ticket,”
Balles, 51, a former police officer and elected sheriff of
Atlantic County, said in an interview. “Personally, my focus is
on running against an incumbent senator and it doesn’t really
matter to me who is up top.”  ‘Marginal’ Effect  In his first run for sheriff in 2008, Balles said there was
record turnout as Democrat  Barack Obama  won the White House.
Even as the presidential campaign boosted voter participation,
Balles said the 58,000 votes cast for his candidacy set records
in Atlantic County.  Derek Roseman, a spokesman for the Democrats’ legislative
campaign, said the effect of the special election would be
“marginal” on state-level races that culminate Nov. 5.
Democratic turnout may be “hampered” by the lack of a Booker
or Pallone on top of the ballot, yet the bigger danger lies in
“election fatigue” from back-to-back contests, Roseman said.  “Certainly, if we had that U.S. Senate race at the top of
the ticket in November it does add an additional level of
excitement,” Roseman said in an interview. “But I don’t
believe it would be enough to change the outcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 