-- Coca-Cola HBC Joins Poste Italiane Selling Bonds as Yields Rise
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-06-10T12:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/coca-cola-hbc-joins-poste-italiane-selling-bonds-as-yields-rise.html
Coca-Cola HBC AG (CCH)  is issuing its
first bonds since the world’s second-biggest bottler of the soft
drink switched its stock listing to  London  from  Athens  as
European borrowing costs climb to a three-month high.  Air Liquide SA (AI) , the French maker of industrial gases, and
 Poste Italiane  SpA, the state-owned postal service, are also
raising debt as the average yield investors demand to hold
investment-grade company bonds in euros rose to 1.90 percent
from a record low of 1.64 percent reached May 17, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Coca-Cola HBC moved its listing to London to access a wider
pool of investors, Chief Financial Officer Michalis Imellos said
in April. Borrowing costs are climbing after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank could taper asset
purchases if the employment outlook shows sustainable
improvement.  “There’s an element of some of these companies looking to
get into the market before nervousness spreads further,” said
Duncan Warwick-Champion, the London-based head of corporate
research at ECM Asset Management Ltd. which oversees $9.5
billion. “There’s a lot of discussion about the potential for
yields rising further so some of the companies that haven’t
locked in their refinancing for 2013 and 2014 are looking to do
so now.”  Coca-Cola  Coca-Cola HBC wants to sell 800 million euros ($1.1
billion) of seven-year notes that will be priced to yield 105
basis points more than the benchmark midswap rate, according to
a person familiar with the deal.  The bottler is also offering to buy back any or all of the
500 million euros of 7.875 percent notes due 2014 to lower its
interest costs and improve its debt profile, the company said
today in a statement. Philip Walters, an external spokesman for
Coca-Cola HBC, declined to comment on the new bond sale, which
needs to be completed before the buyback can begin.  Air Liquide is raising 700 million euros from notes in
three tranches, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The Paris-based company is selling 250 million
euros of six-year fixed-rate bonds, 250 million euros of two-year floating-rate notes and 200 million euros of three-year
floating-rate notes.  Poste Italiane is raising 750 million euros of bonds from
its first sale since 2002. The company is offering five-year
securities to yield 225 basis points, according to a person
familiar with the transaction.  Anna Maria Morsucci, a spokeswoman for the Rome-based
company, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment
on the transaction.  Rolls-Royce  SSE Plc (SSE) , the U.K.’s second-biggest energy supplier, is
selling its first bonds this year. The Perth, Scotland-based
company is raising 600 million euros from seven-year bonds that
will be priced to yield 70 basis points more than swaps,
according to a person familiar with the offer.  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) ,  Europe ’s largest maker of
 aircraft engines , has mandated banks to organize a call with
investors today before a possible sale of securities in euros
and pounds. It would be the London-based company’s first bond
issue since 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the high-yield market, Groupe SMCP, a French distributor
of women’s apparel, is selling 290 million euros of seven-year
securities through its subsidiary, SMCP SAS, to yield about 8.75
percent, according to a person familiar with the deal. The
proceeds will be used to repay existing debt and finance part of
its acquisition by KKR & Co., Moody’s Investors Service reported
on June 4 when it provisionally rated the notes B3, six levels
below investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  