-- Coeure Says ECB May Deploy More Policy Tools If Economy Warrants
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-06-10T10:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/coeure-says-ecb-may-deploy-more-policy-tools-if-economy-warrants.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said policy makers may provide
additional stimulus to help the ailing economy, adding that no
decisions have been taken.  “The message that we would like to convey is that in
exceptionally difficult times we have the duty to consider all
options with an open mind,” Coeure told reporters in Vienna
today. At the same time, “we don’t commit to any of these
policy measures,” he said.  The ECB last week kept its  key interest rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent after sentiment among investors,
entrepreneurs and consumers improved. Still, with the euro area
in the longest recession in its 14-year history, President Mario Draghi has weighed his options and cited cutting the so-called
deposit rate into negative territory, lending more money to
banks, easing collateral rules, reviving the market for asset-backed securities and providing investors with greater guidance
on how long borrowing costs will stay low.  “You see the ECB and the Governing Council of the ECB very
transparent in its thinking, which is good,” Coeure said. “We
have an ongoing review of these measures and depending on the
assessment of the euro-area situation we may decide to use one
or several of these measures. But we keep an open mind and no
decision has been taken.”  Accommodative Stance  Coeure said monetary policy will remain “accommodative as
long as needed,” echoing Draghi’s June 6 statement. “As a
complement and to support accommodative policy, we need strong
regulation and transparency of asset quality,” he said.  From the third quarter, he ECB will undertake a review of
banking assets to assess risk management across the 17-member
euro area, before it takes on supervision of Europe’s biggest
lenders in the middle of next year.  “There will be a mix of scrutiny by national supervisors,
peer review and intervention of outside experts in a limited way
to enhance the scrutiny on the valuation,” Coeure said. “If
there is a tradeoff between the seriousness and the timeline,
then seriousness will be more important. I don’t see this
tradeoff arising currently.”  Asked about a hearing at  Germany ’s Constitutional Court
this week about the legality of the ECB’s Outright Monetary
Transactions program, which is widely credited with restoring
calm in financial markets, Coeure said “we stand ready to
provide all the technical expertise” the court requires.  “We trust the openness of the constitutional court in the
discussion,” Coeure said, adding that the debate has not
“particularly contributed” to market uncertainty.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  