-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise; Duke Energy Issues Bonds
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-06-10T21:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-amid-debate-on-fed-stimulus.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose amid debate on when the Federal Reserve will reduce
its unprecedented stimulus efforts.  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  sold
$500 million of debt.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
2.8 basis points to a mid-price of 83.8 basis points at 5:01
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
index added 1.9 basis points last week.  Investors are looking for signs of when the Fed might start
to scale back its $85 billion in monthly bond buying, a measure
known as quantitative easing that has buoyed fixed-income
securities. The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee
meets next week.  “If we look at the high-grade corporates, there is fear
that the Fed will begin to remove their easy-money policies and
engage in a tightening mode,” William Larkin, a fixed-income
money manager who helps oversee $500 million at Cabot Money
Management Inc. in Salem,  Massachusetts , said in a telephone
interview. “Once you start to really lose money, people start
to panic.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  May Losses  U.S. company bonds lost 1.92 percent in May, the worst
monthly performance since November 2011, according to the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield index. U.S.
investment-grade bonds lost 2.28 percent, their biggest decline
since October 2008, according to an index of that debt.  Inflation below the central bank’s 2 percent target
warrants prolonging the “aggressive” use of bond buying to
spur growth and bring down unemployment, St. Louis Fed President
James Bullard said in remarks prepared for a panel discussion
today in  Montreal . San Francisco Fed President John Williams
said last week a “modest adjustment downward” in the buying is
possible as “early as this summer.”  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index increased 21.6 basis points to 425.3 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show. The 30-year Treasury yield increased
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.36 percent at
4:02 p.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. It earlier touched 3.38 percent, the highest since April
2012.  Duke Energy  “The Fed’s policies are driving everything right now,”
Larkin said. “They’re signaling to us to get ready, we just
don’t know what the timing is.”  Duke Energy’s 2.1 percent, five-year bonds will be used to
repay the largest U.S. utility owner’s $250 million of 5.65
percent debentures due June 15, according to a regulatory
filing. Remaining proceeds will fund general corporate purposes,
including the repayment of Duke Energy’s $496 million of net
commercial paper outstanding, the filing shows.  The notes may be  rated  Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.,  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and Royal Bank of Canada
managed the offering, the filing shows.  The speculative-grade default rate in the U.S. fell to 2.9
percent in May from 3.1 percent the month before, a Moody’s
report showed today. The New York-based ratings company said it
expects the figure to fall to 2.4 percent by the end of the
year. That would be the lowest level since February 2012,
according to Moody’s data.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt tightened 1.1 basis points to 533.5 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  