-- Australian Covered Bond Boom Wanes as RMBS Sales Double
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-06-11T02:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/covered-bond-boom-wanes-as-rmbs-sales-double-australia-credit.html
Australia ’s covered bond boom is
waning less than two years after the market started as yield-hungry buyers more than double purchases of residential
mortgage-backed securities.  Issuance of the debt, backed by the borrower and mortgages
that stay on its balance sheet, fell 64 percent to $9.9 billion
this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The decline in
Australian offerings outpaced a 41 percent slump from banks
worldwide, according to the data.  Renewed appetite for RMBS, as the market recovers after
being decimated by the 2008 U.S. subprime collapse, has seen
sales surge while banks reserve covered-bond allowances for when
market conditions worsen.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) ’s 2017
covered securities offered just 33 basis points more than swaps
last month, compared with a 47 basis-point premium on shorter-dated unsecured notes sold by Westpac Banking Corp., Bloomberg-compiled data show. Global financial debt pays a 141 basis-point
spread, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  “We prefer the higher-yielding assets,” said Raymond Lee,
a portfolio manager at Kapstream Capital in Sydney. “Funds like
us that are targeting a certain yield will favor either AAA
rated RMBS or AA senior-unsecured bonds from the big four banks
over covered bonds, given the yield pick-up for the incremental
risk.”  Sales of Australian RMBS, which differ from covered bonds
in that they aren’t backed by the mortgage provider, jumped to
A$11 billion ($10.4 billion) this year from A$4.4 billion in the
same part of 2012, Bloomberg data show.  Weathering Turbulence  Commonwealth Bank, Westpac,  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and National Australia Bank Ltd., known as the big
four, also raised A$11.2 billion selling unsecured debt in their
home market, from A$11.9 billion in the same period last year,
according to the data.  Australian covered notes sold in Europe, where the
securities were pioneered in 18th century Prussia, pay an
average 1.41 percent, compared with 1.60 percent on other
financial debt issued by the nation’s lenders in the currency,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The bonds were first sold by Australian lenders in November
2011 after politicians, seeking to reduce bank funding costs,
amended laws to allow the issuance. Because covered securities
are typically rated AAA, they’re more attractive to investors
when risk sentiment deteriorates.  The ability to sell the notes “has been critical in
helping our financial institutions weather heavy market
turbulence,” Australian government Treasurer Wayne Swan said in
a speech last year.  Sales Slow  Westpac (WBC) , the nation’s second-largest bank, more than halved
covered debt issuance this year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The lender priced A$2.1 billion of mortgage-backed
securities in February, almost double its RMBS issuance in all
of 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Australian banks can sell covered bonds up to a value of as
much as 8 percent of their assets, limiting potential issuance.  Suncorp-Metway Ltd. has opted not to sell the securities
this year, after raising A$2.2 billion in 2012. The Brisbane-based lender issued A$1.15 billion of RMBS in May.  “We’re still bearish on some markets overall so we want to
keep our powder dry with the amount of covered that we’ve got
left to issue,” said Tim Hughes, treasurer at the lender.
“We’ll continue to look at diversifying our funding mix but, at
this point in time, wouldn’t intend on issuing any covereds this
year.”  Suncorp should have capacity to sell about A$1 billion of
covered bonds from 2014, according to Hughes.  Narrow Spreads  While RMBS offer investors attractive spreads versus
covered bonds, issuers are paying the least to sell such debt
since the financial crisis. Commonwealth Bank, the nation’s
largest lender, paid an 80 basis-point premium for a portion of
the notes in February, the least since 2007, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Premiums on unsecured financial bonds have also fallen. The
average spread on Australian-dollar securities narrowed to 130
basis points more than government debt on May 29, the least
since November 2007, Merrill Lynch indexes show.  “With spreads tightening, the differential between covered
bonds and senior debt is becoming smaller,” said Sofie
Sullivan-Becaus, Sydney-based executive director of securitized
products at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “In more volatile markets, we
would expect this differential to widen again and covered bond
issuances to represent a larger portion of overall term issuance
globally.”  Stimulus Concern  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said May 22 the
central bank could slow the pace of asset purchases if officials
see indications of sustained improvement in growth, sending bond
yields and the U.S. currency surging.  Interest rates  on benchmark Australian 10-year sovereign
bonds rose 10 basis points to 3.39 percent as of 12:18 p.m.,
climbing from 3.09 percent at the end of April.  The Australian dollar, which has tumbled 9.7 percent
against the greenback this quarter, bought 94.09 U.S. cents as
of 12:21 p.m. in Sydney. Australia’s economy expanded at the
slowest annual pace in almost two years in the first quarter,
according to data released last week.  Firstmac sold 92 million British pounds ($143 million) of
securities as part of a A$500 million RMBS offering last week,
its first foreign-currency deal since June 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The issuer considered selling notes
in euro and U.S. dollars before settling on sterling, according
to a Fitch Ratings report before the offering.  Barclays Plc expects European RMBS issuance to slump 50
percent this year, providing more buyers for Australian sales.  “There is more demand out of Europe and it’s a question of
how you tap that,” said Kevin Lee, division director in debt
origination and structuring at Macquarie Group Ltd. “It’s good
to see some foreign currency sales providing a bit of variety so
long as it makes sense economically for the issuer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  