-- Czech Inflation Seen Fuelling Koruna Weakening Debate
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-06-10T12:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/czech-inflation-seen-fuelling-koruna-weakening-debate.html
Czech May consumer prices grew at
the slowest rate in almost three years as the cost of natural
gas fell, adding to a debate among central bankers over plans to
weaken the koruna through market intervention.  Inflation (CZCPYOY)  slowed to 1.3 percent from 1.7 percent in April,
the Prague-based Czech Statistics Office said on its website
today. The median estimate of 17 economists in a Bloomberg
 survey  was 1.6 percent, the same as the central bank’s forecast
for the month.  The $217 billion Czech  economy  is going through its longest
 recession  since current records started in 1996, having
contracted for six consecutive quarters through March. With
households and businesses curbing spending, the Ceska Narodni
Banka cut  borrowing costs  to near zero last year and policy
makers began deliberating whether weakening the koruna is needed
to meet their 2 percent inflation target within 18 months.  “Central bankers will probably continue reminding the
markets with verbal interventions that the CNB wants to keep the
koruna at weaker levels,” Jiri Skop, analyst at an Komercni
Banka AS in  Prague , said in an e-mail. “However, we can expect
direct interventions on the foreign-exchange market only if
there is a threat of deflation. Inflation expectations so far
aren’t indicating a risk of negative deflation spiral.”  Czech koruna bonds dropped, with the yield on the 10-year
government security rising 8 basis points, or 0.08 percentage
point, to 2.07 percent as of 2 p.m. in Prague. The koruna
weakened 0.4 percent to 25.661 to the euro.  Gas, Communication  The drop in the inflation rate was caused mainly by a 4.2
percent decline in the price of natural gas, the statistics
office said. A 9.8 percent drop in the cost of telecommunication
services was the result of mobile-phone operators cutting
charges last month, according to Vaclav  France , an analyst at
Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague.  The Czech economy last week showed signs of improvement as
a 6.4 percent surge in exports widened the April  trade surplus 
widened in April, industry orders increased and the gross
domestic product breakdown displayed an increase in household
consumption.  Still, the economy contracted 1.1 percent in the first
three months of 2013 from the previous quarter, the worst
performance in four years, after businesses curbed inventories.  Rates Held  The central bank kept the benchmark two-week repurchase
rate at 0.05 percent for a fourth meeting on May 2, almost half
a point below the European Central Bank’s main rate. The koruna
is now at the center of Czech policy deliberations after central
bankers agreed currency interventions will be the next tool to
use if the economy needs more monetary easing.  The koruna has gained 0.6 percent to the euro this month,
the best performance among emerging-market currencies in the
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The combination of an appreciating currency and slowing
inflation ’’is likely to result in some comments from Czech
central bankers on the firming of the koruna and its suitability
in the context of broader economic developments,’’ Radomir Jac,
the chief analyst at Generali PPF Asset Management AS in Prague,
said in a note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  