-- Daimler Mulls Options for Li-Tec Battery Joint Venture
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-06-10T16:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/daimler-mulls-options-for-li-tec-battery-joint-venture.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the third-biggest
luxury-carmaker, is reviewing options for its battery-cell joint
venture Li-Tec with  Evonik Industries AG (EVK) , including bringing in
a new partner.  Daimler intends to give the Li-Tec venture “a broader
footing” in the “challenging” battery-cell market,
spokeswoman Silke Walters said today by phone. “No decision has
been made.” German chemical maker Evonik’s spokeswoman Barbara Mueller said the review may lead to “bringing a new strategic
partner on board.”  The two companies formed the joint venture at the end of
2008 to provide future Daimler electric vehicles with batteries
and give the Stuttgart-based manufacturer an edge in electric
vehicles over Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. Daimler last year
introduced an electric version of its Smart two-seater and plans
to roll out the B-Class Electric Drive next year.  The partners were mulling a sale of the joint venture and
were looking for a price of about 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion), the German online edition of the Wall Street Journal
reported earlier today, citing unidentified sources.  A sale of Li-Tec, in which Daimler initially invested a low
three-million-digit euro sum, would mean a departure from the
company’s efforts to control all technologies along the value
chain of electric vehicles, including cell technology and the
electric engine. The step would also underscore that demand for
battery electric vehicles has unfolded slower than expected.  Li-Tec posted a loss of 26 million euros in 2011, according
to Daimler’s 2012 annual report.  New Technologies  Evonik, which listed shares in  Frankfurt  this year, said
May 8 that first-quarter profit fell 10 percent as the company
cut prices for some of its products and raw-material costs rose.  Evonik Chief Executive Officer Klaus Engel has boosted the
company’s profitability more than 5 percentage points in five
years, focusing the company on higher-margin specialty chemicals
and new technologies such as fiber membranes to make biogas.  Daimler has risen 18 percent in Frankfurt trading since the
start of this year while Evonik has dropped 9.1 percent since
its April IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  