-- Deutsche Bank Starts Gold Vault for 200 Tons in Singapore
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-06-10T11:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/deutsche-bank-opens-singapore-gold-vault-that-can-hold-200-tons.html
Deutsche Bank AG started a gold
storage facility at the  Singapore  FreePort with a capacity to
hold as much as 200 metric tons, its largest vault outside
London, the bank said.  Other locations are Zurich and Hong Kong, according to the
bank,  Germany ’s top lender. The Singapore vault caters primarily
for investors wanting to store bullion under the bank’s custody,
said Mark Smallwood, head of wealth planning at the asset and
wealth management unit in the Asia-Pacific region.  Gold sank into a  bear market  in April, after rallying for
12 years, as an improving U.S. economy spurred a rally in
equities amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  may taper
stimulus. While investors have withdrawn assets from exchange-traded products at a record pace this year, the 18 percent slump
in prices has prompted a buying frenzy for coins, bars and
jewelry from  Hong Kong  to Mumbai.  “We have strong demand from existing clients who are
looking to diversify their physical gold assets to Singapore”
from traditional locations such as London, Zurich and  New York ,
Smallwood said today in a phone interview. Clients can also use
the holdings as collateral against loans, he said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. also opened a bullion vault at the
Singapore FreePort in 2010. The country is seeking to establish
itself as a regional gold trading hub and removed sales taxes
from investment-grade precious metals last year. Metalor
Technologies SA, the Neuchatel, Switzerland-based refiner, is
starting a facility on the island.  Buying Frenzy  While the 14 percent plunge in the two days to April 15
triggered a surge in demand in the Asia-Pacific region and
pushed up premiums over  London  prices, holdings in exchange-traded  products  plunged 496 metric tons in 2013, more than the
combined inflows in the past two years.  “We’re going through a corrective trend after 12 years of
a bull run,” said Smallwood. “In the short term prices may
fall a little further, but in the long term now is a good time
to be phasing in.”  Gold tumbled to $1,321.95 an ounce on April 16, the lowest
level in more than two years, and traded at $1,381.28 today. The
price is still 28 percent below the record $1,921.15 in 2011.  Deutsche Bank is one of the six clearing  members  of the
London Bullion Market Association, which includes JPMorgan and
UBS AG, according to the LBMA website. The Frankfurt-based bank
also has exchange-traded funds backed by gold, which totaled
1.51 million ounces as of June 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  