-- Dirt-Bond Sales Near ’07 Peak Belie IRS Tax Ruling: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-06-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/dirt-bond-sales-near-07-peak-belie-irs-tax-ruling-muni-credit.html
Demand for $6 billion of bonds sold
to finance Florida housing developments shows no signs of waning
even after the  Internal Revenue Service  said debt issued for a
project of billionaire H. Gary Morse isn’t tax-exempt.  A Florida land-backed bond sale last week by Verona Walk
Community Development District brought issuance of such debt
this year to $323 million, close to the highest since 2007, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. In May, the IRS alerted Morse that
bonds sold to finance a district he created weren’t tax-free, a
decision with potential implications for hundreds of similar
entities.  Land-backed debt, dubbed dirt bonds, is the riskiest
municipal segment, accounting for almost half of default filings
where investors didn’t get paid, according to Concord,
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors. Still, buyers are
drawn by the extra yield.  Wells Capital  Management and Nuveen
Asset Management plan to keep their bonds from Morse’s project
while continuing to buy debt of certain districts.  “There’s a yield premium in the market for this type of
debt that makes them competitive,” said  John Miller  at Nuveen,
who oversees $95 billion of local debt in  Chicago . “That tends
to limit the amount by which the bonds would fall.”  Pace Prevails  Investors are seeking lower-rated local debt for the higher
relative yields as the  Federal Reserve  holds its benchmark
overnight rate near zero to spur the economy. Munis one to three
levels above junk, encompassing the debt from Morse’s project,
have earned 1.5 percent in 2013, compared with a loss of 0.4
percent on top-rated munis, Barclays Plc data show.  The IRS ruling related to $426 million of bonds sold by
Village Center Community Development District, a Morse
residential project in central Florida.  Perry  Israel , the Sacramento-based attorney for the
district, said June 7 that its board hasn’t decided whether to
appeal the IRS decision.  Morse is the developer of The Villages, one of the world’s
largest retirement communities, located on 33 square miles (85
square kilometers) in central  Florida . Through his fully owned
Holding Company of The Villages, Morse has built and sold more
than 44,400 homes since 1983.  Different Beast  Village Center bonds rated three steps above junk and
maturing in November 2032 traded last week with an average yield
spread of about 2.2 percentage points, the lowest in five weeks,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The project “is a different type of entity than a number
of the other ones that we’ve seen or currently hold,” said
Dennis Derby, who helps manage about $34 billion of munis,
including $5 million of Village Center bonds, at Wells Capital
in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin .  Verona Walk issued $7 million of revenue bonds to refinance
debt sold to build part of a 760-acre development near Naples on
the  Gulf Coast , bond documents show.  Standard & Poor’s  rated the
deal A, the sixth-highest level. Bonds maturing in May 2035
yielded 4.48 percent, or about 1.4 percentage points above top-rated munis, Bloomberg data show.  The bonds are repaid from assessments on 935 residential
units, of which only about 75 are undeveloped,  Michael Rosen ,
Verona Walk’s district manager, said in an interview.  Audit Scenario  “It’s a fairly well-occupied development, and therefore
there’s not a lot of risk for the bondholders,” he said.  Borrowing documents warned of a potential review of its
tax-exempt debt and Florida dirt bonds in general given the
latest IRS ruling.  If the IRS were to audit the Verona Walk bonds and
determine that they aren’t tax-exempt, such a decision “may
adversely impact any secondary market” for the securities and
their price, the documents say.  The IRS determined that the Village Center bonds aren’t
tax-exempt because the entity isn’t a political arm of the
state, according to an IRS memo dated May 30. Since its creation
in 1992, the district has been issuing debt with approval from a
board of supervisors controlled by the developer, according to
the IRS memo.  The agency said state law intends for the development
districts to be turned over to residents who vote in board
members at a general election. Yet the developer has owned
sufficient land to appoint the board even though the district
has existed for over 20 years, according to the memo.  Verona Walk’s documents indicate that four of its five
board members are qualified electors, or residents of the
district, who were voted in or appointed.  Research Requirement  Derby and Miller said buying Florida dirt bonds will
require additional research into whether board members were
elected by residents or handpicked by the developer.  “The results of this case, both what’s happened in the
past and how it unfolds in the future, is going to add to our
research criteria and our research process,” said Miller, whose
firm holds $10 million of Village Center bonds.  An improving Florida housing market helps make the
development bonds attractive, Miller said.  The April median sale price for a single-family Florida
home was $165,000, the highest since at least January 2009,
according to Florida Realtors, a profession trade association.  “Characteristics are improving generally in this market,”
Miller said. “The reliability of repayment is going up.”  In the municipal market this week,  New York  City
Transitional Finance Authority leads issuers offering debt with
yields close to the highest since March 2012.  At 2.19 percent, yields on benchmark 10-year munis have
exceeded the  interest rate  on similar-maturity Treasuries for
seven straight trading days, the longest stretch in more than a
month.  The  ratio  of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 101 percent. The higher the percentage, the cheaper munis
are compared with Treasuries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  