-- Dish Says Its Existing Bid for Sprint Is ‘Formal Proposal’
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-06-10T20:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/dish-says-april-takeover-bid-for-sprint-was-formal-proposal-.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , facing pressure
to shore up its takeover bid for  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  after
making a $25.5 billion unsolicited offer in April, said its
existing bid is already a “formal proposal.”  “Dish submitted a formal proposal to merge with Sprint on
April 15,” the satellite-TV provider said today in a statement.
“Dish and Sprint continue to meet regularly and conduct the due
diligence process that began in late May. In addition, Dish and
Sprint continue to negotiate the terms of a merger agreement.”  Dish made its bid as a counteroffer to  SoftBank Corp. (9984) ’s
$20.1 billion takeover agreement, which is slated for a
shareholder vote on June 12. Sprint is considering delaying the
decision so Dish can firm up its bid, people familiar with the
deliberations said last week. Sprint was seeking a more binding
offer from Dish, rather than the preliminary bid it made in
April, including details on financing sources, the people said.  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, declined to comment beyond a statement the company
released on May 20: “The Sprint board of directors will,
consistent with its fiduciary duties and in consultation with
its financial and legal advisers, continue to evaluate the Dish
proposal and discuss the proposal with Dish and SoftBank.”  Dish’s Strategy  Charlie Ergen, Dish’s billionaire chairman, is going after
Sprint as part of his plan to expand into the wireless industry.
He wants to pair his satellite-TV operations with the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, letting him provide a bigger
bundle of services. SoftBank, meanwhile, is counting on the deal
to vault the Japanese company into the U.S. market.  Dish reiterated today that it believes its proposal is
“both economically and strategically superior to that of
SoftBank.”  Dish has lined up $9.3 billion in financing for the Sprint
deal, people familiar with the matter said last month. Dish
raised about $2.6 billion in a bond offering managed by Barclays
Plc, Jefferies Group LLC, Macquarie Group Ltd. and Royal Bank of
 Canada . The satellite company received separate loans from the
same banks, as well as the Bank of Nova Scotia, the people said.  Sprint gave Englewood, Colorado-based Dish access to its
private financial information last month after the financing was
obtained.  Debt Load  While Dish’s bid price is higher, SoftBank has argued that
the deal would burden Sprint with too much debt. Tokyo-based
SoftBank also is offering to provide Sprint with an $8 billion
cash infusion, helping the carrier complete additional deals,
such as its planned acquisition of Clearwire Corp.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., the biggest
shareholder-advisory firm, recommended SoftBank’s bid in a
report last week, saying the deal would supply Sprint with the
cash it needs to upgrade its network and compete with larger
carriers. ISS said it couldn’t determine whether Dish’s offer
was superior because it hasn’t been presented to investors.  Sprint shares fell 0.8 percent to $7.18 at the close in New
York. The stock has  climbed  27 percent this year, signaling that
investors expect a bidding war for Sprint to continue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  