-- Disney Showcases ‘Lone Ranger’ Characters for Game System
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-06-10T22:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/disney-showcases-lone-ranger-characters-for-game-system.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  showcased “Lone
Ranger” and “Monsters University” characters tied to its
Infinity video-game platform, which goes on sale in August and
is designed to boost the company’s money-losing interactive
unit.  The play sets, drawing on characters from the forthcoming
Disney movies, feature plastic figurines that are set on top of
a base unit and appear on screen. The characters were shown
yesterday with the Infinity system at E3, the video-game
industry’s annual conference in Los Angeles that runs through
this week.  Disney, the world’s largest entertainment company, unveiled
Infinity in January, saying it would reduce costs and improve
earnings at its interactive division by incorporating characters
from multiple Disney movies in the same game. The company also
has been promoting other characters for the platform, including
from its “Cars” and “Pirates of the Caribbean” films.  “You play your way and it is as fun for you as anyone
else,” said John Blackburn, chief executive officer of
Avalanche Software, a Disney Interactive unit. “We want this to
be deep enough for a father to play with his sons but we wanted
it to be easy enough where kids can play as well.”  Burbank, California-based Disney will sell the figures,
which will come with “power discs” that add special powers,
weapons and vehicles from Disney movies. A starter kit with the
base and figures from the “Pirates” and “Monsters”
franchises and “The Incredibles” is priced at $75, and the
game can be played by four people over an Internet connection.  Players can use characters from the starter pack across
other games. An area called “Toy Box” allows users to create
their own game in genres including racing, sports, fighting and
world-building.  Strong ‘Buzz’  Infinity’s combination of video-game play with collectible
figures is similar to “Skylanders,” a game from  Activision
Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  that generated more than $500 million in sales in
the U.S. last year. Infinity comes out Aug. 18.  “I think the buzz around Infinity is very strong,” Sean McGowan, an analyst at Needham & Co., said in an e-mail. “It
comes at a time when parents are being asked to shell out a lot
of money for gadgets -- tablets and new consoles that already
have a solid claim on some of that discretionary budget, but if
it’s a quarter the success of ‘Skylanders,’ it’s a big hit.”  Disney earlier this year pushed back the release date for
Infinity from June and said in a May 7 conference call that the
interactive division would report a loss in the current fiscal-third quarter similar to the $54 million shortfall it
experienced in the prior three-month period.  “We believe in Infinity,” Bob Iger, chairman and chief
executive officer, said on the call. “We think it will be a
great product and it’s going to help drive profitability for
fiscal year 2014.”  Disney fell 1.6 percent to $63.83 at the close today in New
York. The stock has gained 28 percent this year, compared with a
15 percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  