-- Dollar-Funding Conditions Steady, Money-Market Indicators Show
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-06-10T12:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/dollar-funding-conditions-steady-money-market-indicators-show.html
Money-market forward indicators
signaled short-term dollar funding conditions held steady.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or  Libor (US0003M) , fell
to 0.27415 percent, from 0.27515 percent on June 7, according to
the British Bankers’ Association. The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge
of banks’ reluctance to lend, was little changed at 16.4 basis
points.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
what the Federal Reserve’s effective funds rate will average for
the term of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, rose to 18.9 basis points from 17.9 basis
points on June 7, according to the second rolling three-month
contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, narrowed 0.15 basis points to 17.95 basis points on June
7. The gap is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking
sector credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations
for dollar Libor.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
fell $17.2 billion to $1.0306 trillion in the week ended June 5,
according to Fed data.  Euribor-OIS  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market was little changed. The three-month cross-currency basis swap was 12.7 basis points below Euribor.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, narrowed.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was 11.8
basis points, versus 12 basis points on June 7.  Repo Rates  The overnight Treasury general collateral repurchase
agreement rate opened today at 0.06 percent, according to ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  The  average rate  for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.068 percent on June 7,
according to index data provided on a one-day lag by the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at interest
rates close to the Fed’s target rate are called general
collateral. Those in highest demand have lower rates and are
called “special.”  The  average rate  for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, was 0.09 percent. The rate opened today at
0.09 percent. The effective rate is a volume-weighted average of
trades between major brokers for overnight funds, reported on a
day lag by the Fed Bank of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  