-- Draghi Says He Has Confidence in German Court OMT Review
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-06-11T07:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/draghi-says-he-has-confidence-in-german-court-omt-review.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said he trusts  Germany ’s constitutional court,
which will consider a case against the central bank’s bond-buying plan starting today.  “I have full confidence in the constitutional court’s
independence, also in its ability to examine with thoroughness
and with fairness all the advice it is getting from all sides,”
Draghi said in an interview on German ZDF television yesterday.
“It would be presumptuous of me to say what the conclusion
could be.”  The ECB’s Outright Monetary Transactions program,
introduced last year as concerns peaked that the euro would
break apart, will be reviewed by the court in Karlsruhe at
hearings this week after plaintiffs including a lawmaker allied
to  Chancellor Angela Merkel  brought a case against it. The as-yet-unused OMT foresees potentially unlimited purchases of bonds
of debt-stricken countries that sign up to adjustment programs.  “If you look back to a year ago, there has been
significant progress in these countries,” Draghi said, adding
that not a single euro has since been spent under the plan. “It
is probably the most successful monetary policy measure that has
been taken.”  Specific Targeting  Conceived as yields on Spanish and Italian 10-year bonds
neared 7 percent, OMT has helped the cost of borrowing for
nations like Spain and  Italy  fall to levels not seen in more
than two years.  The euro traded little changed before today’s hearing at
$1.3264 at 9:24 a.m. in Frankfurt. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
fell 0.8 percent to 292.77.  Draghi said that in the event OMT is ever used, it will
only target the parts of the yield curve that aren’t in line
with fundamentals.  “You don’t need spreads that are so high that the rest of
the world loses any confidence in the sustainability of the euro
itself, and therefore of the single countries,” he said.  The case will see ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen
give contrary testimony to Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann,
who has strongly opposed the plan and voted against its
introduction last year. Weidmann has said OMT comes too close to
the financing of governments by the central bank.  “We will not intervene to ensure the solvency of countries
that can’t” deal with money, Draghi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  