-- Dubai’s Muted Inflation Masks Costs as Salaries Stall
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-06-11T09:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/dubai-s-muted-inflation-masks-soaring-costs-as-salaries-stall.html
Dubai’s inflation rate of less than
1 percent doesn’t capture the surging cost of living in the
desert emirate, especially for the expatriates who make up most
of its population.  The government reported inflation at  0.9 percent  in April,
while the housing index, which includes water and electricity
and is the biggest component, rose  0.8 percent . By contrast,
real-estate companies such as Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. and
Cluttons LLC show annual increases in rents and home prices
ranging from 10 percent to as much as 88 percent.  The divergence is part of a pattern that shelters Emiratis
from inflation. They’re less likely to rent, have access to free
government schools, and say they receive assistance with utility
bills and are exempt from a housing tax. Foreigners, about 90
percent of the 2.2 million population, are exposed to higher
costs in those areas, even as salaries are capped by growing
demand for jobs in Dubai.  “Many expatriates feel the official CPI doesn’t reflect
their reality,” said Khatija Haque, senior economist at Dubai-based lender  Emirates NBD PJSC. (EMIRATES)  “Dubai is probably more
difficult to measure CPI than other cities because there’s such
a transient population, and a huge mix of households, and
everyone has different spending patterns.”  Easily Replaced  After a debt crisis in 2009, when the emirate struggled to
meet payments on the more than $100 billion it borrowed to build
a tourism and commercial hub, Dubai is rebounding. Its economy
will grow 4 percent this year, according to the  International
Monetary Fund . The  Dubai Financial Market General Index (DFMGI)  has
risen 44 percent so far this year.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , which
has the biggest weighting on the index, gained 50 percent.  “If you don’t like your package, tough, companies can
replace you in no time,” said Samer Mardini, 34, a Syrian who
is vice president of fixed income at SJS Markets Ltd. He said
his own rent jumped 30 percent in the last year, while his
salary was unchanged and will probably stay that way in 2013.
“You just have to hope that prices don’t rise too fast to make
it unaffordable to live here.”  Recruitment company Bayt.com’s annual salary survey in the
 United Arab Emirates  found 44 percent of respondents said they
didn’t receive a raise in 2012, according to Chief Marketing
Officer Lama Ataya.  Mid-range villa prices in Dubai climbed  46 percent  in May
from a year ago, to the highest since November 2008, according
to Cluttons LLC data compiled by Bloomberg. Overall rents rose
10 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, according
to Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  2007 Index  Expatriates also pay 5 percent of their rent as a housing
fee, which nationals don’t, according to Waseem Hassan, 31, an
Emirati who has seen a “slight” increase in his salary. Still,
his rent has risen about 20 percent since 2010, he said.  One reason why housing costs don’t show up in the  consumer
price index  may be the choice of homes surveyed.  The Dubai Statistics Center measures prices “across
different areas of Dubai, different types of properties and
different renewal dates,” said Maryam Ahmad Mohammed Al-Mulla,
its director of prices and foreign trade. She said rentals are
“one of the most controversial items in the CPI,” and the
homes are chosen based on the 2007 Household Income and
Expenditure Survey.  Housing accounts for 44 percent of Dubai’s CPI. Al-Mulla
declined to provide details of the properties surveyed.  Not Built Yet  Most properties in areas popular with foreigners and where
residents complain of soaring rents, such as  Dubai Marina ,
Downtown Dubai and Business Bay, were under construction in
2007, according to Naveed Mirza, a 35-year-old Pakistani working
at Black Arrow Real Estate. “At that time, there were few
finished properties in those places,” Mirza said. “Now those
areas are very popular, and prices are going up.”  In a bid to stop rents for existing tenants from
skyrocketing, Dubai introduced a rent index in 2011 and its rent
 calculator  caps increases. Tenants and landlords can ask the
Dubai municipality to settle disputes.  Rent isn’t the only cost rising. Jawad Ali, a Dubai-based
managing partner at King & Spalding in the  Middle East , said
school fees and restaurant bills are increasing.  “I feel that Dubai has become very expensive, specifically
restaurants since I go out frequently socially and to entertain
clients,” Ali said. “It’s getting out of control.”  The CPI’s hotels and restaurants sub-index rose 1.1 percent
in April from a year ago.  The Knowledge and Human Development Authority, which
regulates tuition, approved requests from 17 schools to raise
fees, Chief of Regulations and Compliance Commission Mohammad
Darwish last month told XPRESS, a U.A.E. weekly. Some tuition
pressure is already being reflected in inflation, as the
education sub-index is up  4.9 percent  from a year ago.  ‘Flat for Emiratis’  “Inflation may be flat for Emiratis, for example, who use
government schools and don’t deal with rising rents,” said
 Simon Williams , chief Middle East and North Africa economist at
HSBC Holdings Plc in Dubai. State schools, which only admit
Emiratis, are free.  Dubai’s transportation sub-index, which rose 0.8 percent in
April from a year ago, may rise for expatriates and Emiratis
alike after the government introduced two more toll gates in
April,  bringing  the total to seven.  While the central bank will be comfortable with the
inflation rate, it’s “likely to be watching the pick-up in
asset prices with greater concern,” especially credit growth,
Williams said.  Central Bank Vigilance  “The central bank’s ability and readiness to manage the
pace at which lending expands will be the real test of their
monetary policy stance and will give us a clear idea of how
effective they will be in avoiding a repeat of the 2003-2008
boom and bust cycle,” Williams said.  The central bank, which hasn’t changed its  repurchase rate 
in more than four years, typically follows the  Federal Reserve 
because the nation’s currency, the dirham, is pegged to the  U.S.
dollar .  Loans and advances in the U.A.E. climbed  27 percent  in the
first quarter, the most since Bloomberg began tracking the data
in 2010, compared with 39 percent in 2008. Real estate values
rose to a record in 2008, about 30 percent higher than today’s
prices, Cluttons data show.  Inflation may quicken later this year, said Raza Agha,
chief Middle East and Africa economist at VTB Capital in  London .  “As residents start to look at less prestigious addresses
to cope with higher rents, price pressures will become
broader,” he said. “With  office space  and retail space costs
also rising, real estate looks set to become a major contributor
to inflation once again.”  King & Spalding’s Ali said it reminds him of the  boom  in
Dubai before the global financial crisis.  “It’s almost like there’s this 2007 feeling,” Ali said.
“A light has been switched on, and we’re in full growth mode,
and it’s natural that with growth there’s inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  