-- Dubai Shares Drop Most in More Than Year Before MSCI Decision
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-06-10T14:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/dubai-shares-drop-most-in-more-than-year-before-msci-decision.html
Dubai’s shares fell the most in more
than a year as investors await an  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  decision on whether
the  United Arab Emirates  will be upgraded to emerging-market
status. Stocks in Abu Dhabi also declined.  Dubai Financial Market (DFM) , the only publicly traded stock
exchange in the Gulf Cooperation Council, fell the most in four
months.  Dubai Investments PJSC (DIC)  posted its biggest drop in more
than a year. The benchmark DFM General  Index (DFMGI)  decreased 2.3
percent, the largest retreat since March 2012, to 2,344.76. It
was the world’s third-worst performer today among 94 indexes
tracked by Bloomberg.  The U.A.E. and Qatar are under consideration for a fifth
year for a possible upgrade from frontier market status at MSCI.
Both countries could be promoted after they improved market
accessibility,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said in a report dated May 31.
Indexes by MSCI, which is due to announce its decision June 11,
are tracked by investors managing about $7 trillion.  “The market is nervous prior to the MSCI’s decision,”
said Montasser Khelifi, a Dubai-based senior manager for global
markets at Quantum Investment Bank Ltd. “Despite all the
positive signs and the rationale for the upgrade, we are still
not sure of the outcome.”  Khelifi expects both the U.A.E., the second-largest Arab
economy, and Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied
natural gas, to be upgraded. The reclassification could lead to
about $370 million flowing into the U.A.E. and more than $430
million into Qatar, according to HSBC Holdings Plc estimates.  Qatar’s QE Index rose 0.4 percent today, taking its advance
in 2013 to 12 percent. Indexes in Dubai and  Abu Dhabi  are among
the 10 best-performing equities indexes this year among 94
gauges tracked globally by Bloomberg, with rallies of 45 percent
and 35 percent, respectively.  Dubai Investments was the most-actively traded stock on the
DFM today. The shares fell 5.1 percent, the biggest slump since
May 2012. Dubai Financial Market declined 3.5 percent, the most
since Feb. 3, to 1.92 dirhams. Abu Dhabi’s index fell 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  