-- Dynavax Falls as FDA Seeks Broader Study of Vaccine
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-06-10T20:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/dynavax-falls-as-fda-seeks-broader-study-of-vaccine.html
Dynavax Technologies Corp. (DVAX) , a
drugmaker seeking to bring its first product to market, tumbled
43 percent after U.S. regulators asked for a wider study to
assess the safety of the company’s hepatitis B vaccine.  Dynavax  closed  at $1.40 in  New York  trading, its lowest
price since April 2010. The Berkeley, California-based company
has now lost 64 percent of market value in the past 12 months.  The  Food and Drug Administration  had rejected the vaccine,
Heplisav, in February after determining Dynavax’s safety data
was lacking. The agency now wants to see a study that goes
beyond the 3,500 people Dynavax examined for adverse events in
clinical trials, a process that may take months or even years.  “The silver lining here is instead of having restricted
approval, when we get the safety database and if it all works
out, we will have the full label,” Michael Ostrach, Dynavax’s
chief business officer, said today in an interview.  The company is talking with the FDA and should be able to
provide an update in “months to weeks” on the design of a
trial to capture more safety data, he said.  Advisers to the FDA suggested at a November meeting that
Dynavax should study 8,000 to 10,000 patients using the vaccine.  Targeting Patients  Dynavax planned to focus on smaller groups in need of new
vaccine options because they don’t respond well to current
vaccines, including those older than 40 and patients with
chronic  kidney disease , Ostrach said. The additional safety data
will help make Heplisav available for a wider population of
people 18 to 70 years old, the company said in a statement.  FDA staff determined in November, and an advisory panel
agreed, that the vaccine worked as well in fewer doses as
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Engerix-B. A panel of agency advisers
later raised concerns that the product may have the potential to
cause rare autoimmune diseases.  Hepatitis B, like HIV, is transmitted through the exchange
of body fluids such as blood, saliva or semen, according to the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It attacks the
liver, which removes toxins from the body, and can lead to
scarring, cancer or organ failure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  