-- The Real Reason Young People Don’t Like Republicans
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-06-10T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/the-real-reason-young-people-don-t-like-republicans.html
Mitt Romney , the 2012 Republican
presidential candidate, won among voters over the age of 30, but
lost younger voters by 23 points. That statistic has gotten a
lot of attention from Republicans, especially since they have
now lost young voters in three presidential elections in a row.
They worry that voting Democratic could be habit-forming for
this generation.  The party leadership’s postelection “ autopsy ” offered a
superficial take on its challenge with young voters: It’s just
social issues, and particularly Republican opposition to same-sex marriage, that have turned them off. The College Republican
National Committee has just released a detailed  report  on young
voters that goes considerably beyond this conventional wisdom.  It’s true that most polls find strong support for same-sex
marriage among young people. The report, mainly written by
Winston Group pollster Kristen Soltis Anderson, tries to gauge
how important the issue is in driving their votes. It finds that
26 percent of young voters favor same-sex marriage and wouldn’t
vote for a candidate who opposes it even if they agreed with
that candidate on most other issues. Some of those voters, maybe
most of them, must lean toward the Democrats on issues other
than same-sex marriage. So Republicans are losing some young
voters on this issue, but it may not be central to the party’s
troubles.  And young people aren’t socially liberal when it comes to
abortion. In the College Republicans’ March survey, 51 percent
of them believed abortion should be banned altogether or with
exceptions in unusual circumstances. They aren’t all that
liberal on immigration, either. About 65 percent of young voters
favored deporting illegal immigrants, enforcing the law before
offering them legal status, or offering them legal status but
not citizenship -- all positions to the right of the immigration
bill now being debated in the Senate. Young voters also consider
climate change a low-priority issue.  Economic Concerns  They are deeply concerned, on the other hand, about
economic issues. And Republicans have a lot of work to do on
them. A majority of young voters think the party’s economic
policies played a big role in the recession. They don’t follow
Republican politicians in thinking that higher taxes on the rich
are higher taxes on small business. Although they tend to agree
with Republicans about the future of entitlement programs for
the elderly, they are much more worried about the here-and-now.
(The report cites a survey showing 20 percent of young people
had delayed marriage because of the economy.) They consider
student-loan debt a major obstacle to their goals.  And they give President  Barack Obama  credit for trying to
help the economy, reduce their debt burden, and fix health care.
Among those young voters who approve of Obama’s job performance,
“trying” was the No. 1 word they used about him -- as in, he has
been trying to improve things.  They think that public spending should be cut and that
government is too big. Fighting big government is, however, a
much lower priority for them than expanding the economy,
reforming the safety net and controlling the national debt.  To my eye, these findings suggest there is an opening among
young people for Republicans who advance credible plans to
reduce the cost of health care and college, to foster job
growth, to control the national debt and to address the other
issues they consider important. Republicans will want those
plans to involve shrinking the government, but that shouldn’t be
their chief selling point. If they can do that -- a big if, for
many reasons -- Republicans will also get credit from young
voters for trying, whereas they now seem reflexively anti-Obama.
It will also make them seem more intelligent, which is a quality
that young people, according to the report, prize more than
coolness.  There are a lot of ways to slice the polling data. Dividing
voters based on whether they have turned 30 is just one, and it
can obscure some truths -- for example, Obama carried voters
aged between 30 and 39  by 13 points .  Compelling Message  One question the report doesn’t directly address is how
much age and generation influence voting. Young voters are less
likely than older voters to be married, white or Christian, all
of which would make them less likely to be Republicans even if
they were older. The party’s poor performance among young voters
is partly a sign that they do badly with nonwhites and that
nonwhites are a growing share of voters.  It is probably a mistake for Republicans to spend a lot of
time targeting young voters. They should concentrate more, for
example, on doing better among nonwhite voters, which would
improve their numbers among the young, too. And above all, they
ought to have something more compelling to say about voters’
daily economic concerns. Young voters are just like their elders
in wanting that.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at National Review.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  