-- Health Co-Ops Stumble With Loans, Republicans Say
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-06-10T17:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/health-co-ops-stumble-with-loans-republicans-say.html
President  Barack Obama ’s use of
federal loans to bankroll untested businesses is sparking
controversy again, this time over a $6 billion program to create
nonprofit competitors to commercial health insurers.  Darrell Issa , the California Republican who heads the House
Oversight Committee, said five of 24 health co-ops that received
$2 billion in loans under the Affordable Care Act may not
survive because of financial or regulatory shortcomings. Citing
reviews of the companies last year by Deloitte Consulting LLP,
Issa called the loans a “costly gamble of taxpayer money.”  Leaders of the co-ops, located in Maryland,  New York , New
Jersey,  Oregon  and  Vermont , counter that Issa’s information is
outdated and that his staff never contacted them to discuss the
Deloitte reviews. The revelation of audits that hadn’t been made
public will still provide ammunition in the salvo by  House
Republicans , who after 37 attempts to repeal all or parts of the
2010 health overhaul are trying to discredit the law’s programs.  “The Obamacare co-op program was bankrolled by $2 billion
of taxpayer money distributed with little transparency,” Issa
said in an e-mail through a spokeswoman. Some businesses
selected “have been plagued with legal and financial issues.”  The co-op in New York, Freelancers Health Service Corp.,
was incorporated in June 2012 and hasn’t had a long enough time
to organize, said Dan McGowan, its chief executive officer. The
sponsoring organization, the Freelancers Union of  Brooklyn , New
York, won a $174 million loan to start the company.  Bad Bets  ‘This is an extremely lean organization and an extremely
young one; way too young to come to any conclusions that seem to
be being made,” McGowan said in a phone interview.  Obama’s management of U.S. loans to untested businesses has
been a cause for Republicans, following bad bets on plug-in
carmaker Fisker Automotive Inc., battery supplier  A123 Systems
Inc. (AONEQ)  and solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC. While U.S. officials
said most of the money for the health insurance co-ops would be
recouped in the event of a failure, the disclosure opens a new
avenue for criticism by Republicans.  “There needs to be concern, there needs to be oversight,
and they need to be provided some assistance,” said Todd Stockard, president of Valence Health Inc., a Chicago-based
consulting firm that counts co-ops in  Maine  and  New Mexico  among
clients. “There’s kind of been a hands-off approach; ‘here’s
the money, you passed muster.’”  Reduced Funding  Concerned about viability, Congress reduced funding for the
loans to $3.8 billion in April 2011 and then cut off further
spending in January after the Obama administration had already
lent about $2 billion. In a June 4 letter obtained by  Bloomberg
News , Issa asked Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  to supply more documents about the co-ops.  The co-ops “will promote competition and increase choice
in the health insurance market,” CMS, which is run by
Sebelius’s agency, said in a statement. “They will be run by
their customers, and are designed to provide individuals and
small businesses with high-quality, affordable health-care
coverage.”  The money doled included loans to help get the co-ops up
and running and a larger amount of so-called solvency funds that
would cover capital reserve requirements. About 84 percent of
the money is reserved for solvency funding, according to CMS.  If a co-op’s loan is terminated before it secures a state
license to operate, all of the solvency money would be returned.
Nineteen of the co-ops have received licenses while one, in
Vermont, has been denied, according to CMS.  New Jersey  A  New Jersey  co-op also run by Freelancers was found to
have expenses that would grow faster than revenues, “a negative
indicator of the co-op’s ability to remain financially
solvent,” Issa said, citing the Deloitte documents.  Jim Martin, the CEO of the New Jersey co-op, said in a
telephone interview that its executives expect to break even in
three years. Chief Financial Officer Joel Vandevusse added that
a study by the consulting firm Milliman, Inc. found that the co-op would be financially viable and repay its $107 million loan.  A third Freelancers co-op in Oregon was organized by people
who didn’t have experience with insurance markets, Deloitte’s
review found before the co-op was awarded a $59 million loan in
February 2012, according to Issa’s letter. CEO Dawn Bonder said
in a telephone interview that she hired a chief operating
officer and CFO this year who have both worked for managed-care
companies.  Vermont Co-Op  “That, coupled with my leadership and ability to think
outside the box, having not been an industry insider, positions
us extremely well to do what we’re charged with doing, which is
being innovative and offering consumer choice in a way
commercial carriers are not able to do,” she said.  The Vermont Health Co-op was denied a license to sell
insurance on May 22 after the state Department of Financial
Regulation  said  the company relied on unrealistic assumptions
about enrollment in its plans. The department also said
executives had a lack of experience with insurance.  Vermont Health is seeking to win reconsideration of its
application, CEO Christine Oliver said in a phone interview.  Evergreen Health Cooperative in  Maryland  initially failed
to win approval for a loan and had to re-apply. A federal review
of the first application concluded that Evergreen’s financial
statements “indicate a tenuous ability to remain” solvent,
according to Issa’s letter.  The company later did win a license to operate and
Evergreen said it has now assembled a network of doctors,
hospitals and other health providers for future customers. That
Evergreen had to revise its business plan to win its $65 million
loan in September 2012 indicates a rigorous vetting by federal
officials, CEO Peter Beilenson said in a phone interview.  “We’re quite confident that we’ll be not only solvent but
we’ll get our enrollment to where it needs to be, which is about
20,000 in the first year,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  