-- Eaton Said to Consider Sale of Auto-Parts Business
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-06-10T20:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/eaton-said-to-weigh-sale-of-auto-parts-unit-valued-at-1-billion.html
Eaton Corp. (ETN)  is weighing a sale of
its auto-parts unit to focus on its growing power and lighting
operations, said people with knowledge of the matter.  The auto business, not including truck parts, may be valued
at about $1 billion, said one of the people, who asked not to be
named because the process is private. Eaton’s  management  wants
to exit the business and has had internal talks about seeking a
buyer, two of the people said. No investment bankers have been
hired to run a sale process, and the company would probably keep
the truck-parts business, the people said.  Eaton, which started in 1911 building truck axles, is
shifting its focus away from its transportation roots. Last
year, the Dublin-based company acquired Cooper Industries Plc
for $11.8 billion to expand in electrical sales, projecting that
the segment would account for 59 percent of revenue after the
deal. The auto unit generated about 10 percent of sales in 2012.  “At the right price, I think it makes sense,” said John Sini, a fund manager and principal at Douglas C. Lane &
Associates in New York, which oversees more than $3 billion in
assets, including Eaton shares. “From a strategic standpoint,
especially as they’re integrating Cooper, the auto-parts segment
doesn’t really fit anymore, given the size of the electrical end
market.”  Sini said by telephone that he would like to see the auto-parts unit sell for more than $1 billion.  “There is no basis for the speculation on the sale of our
automotive business,” Gary Klasen, a spokesman for Eaton, said
today in an e-mailed statement.  Combined Units  Eaton shares increased less than 1 percent to $65.64 at the
close in New York.  Eaton’s truck-parts unit accounted for 14 percent of
 revenue  last year. Starting in the first quarter of this year,
Eaton combined the auto and truck units for reporting purposes.  The auto-parts unit may be valued at roughly $1 billion
based on the average multiple for peers of 5 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, one of
the people said. The division’s Ebitda in 2012 was $220 million,
with projected Ebitda for 2013 of $250 million to $300 million,
one of the people said.  Eaton is trading at 14 times estimated 2013 earnings,
trailing the three other members in the  Standard and Poor’s 500
Electrical Components & Equipment Index .  “Eaton hasn’t had respect in the marketplace commensurate
with the quality of the company and the growth rate of the
company,” said  Eli Lustgarten , a St. Louis-based analyst at
Longbow Securities who recommends buying the stock.  Without the auto unit, Eaton’s valuation could improve
because “electrical companies are valued incredibly higher than
more diversified, more cyclical kinds of companies,” he said in
a telephone interview.  Eaton expects the auto business to attract bidders because
car sales are on the rise and there is still growth potential,
said two of the people. Still, sales for the vehicle group
dropped 11 percent to $939 million in the three months ended
March 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  