-- Medicare Rate Decision Seen By Hundreds of U.S. Employees
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-06-10T15:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/medicare-rate-decision-seen-by-hundreds-of-u-s-employees.html
The Medicare rate decision that sent
 Humana Inc. (HUM) ’s stock soaring in April was distributed to at least
436 government employees at the U.S. Health and Human Services
Department before the agency’s official announcement.  Senator Charles Grassley’s staff obtained more than 1,000
pages of e-mails from HHS that mentioned the decision in the two
weeks before April 1, according to Jill Gerber, a spokeswoman
for the Iowa Republican. The e-mail count doesn’t include
messages from the White House’s budget office, which would have
reviewed the Medicare Advantage payment changes.  The Obama administration said April 1 it was scaling back a
proposed cut in payments from Medicare Advantage, a health plan
for the elderly and disabled that is managed for the government
by Humana,  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and other insurers. The U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department
are investigating stock trades to determine whether government
employees leaked word of the decision before the announcement.  “Market-sensitive information should be available to
everyone at the same time, not handled loosely in a way that
allows special access to some individuals,” Grassley said in a
statement. “The information flow inside the government in this
case should sound an alarm.”  Brian Cook, a spokesman for the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, which administers Advantage programs, said
the agency does regular employee training on privacy and ethics.  40 Minutes  “Our agency regularly handles sensitive information
regarding payment rates, coverage decisions, and other technical
policy decisions that need to be safeguarded until public
release,’” Cook said in an e-mail. “While large numbers of
employees may need to be involved in developing complex
policies, we carefully vet which CMS employees have access to
sensitive information and are part of specific clearance
chains.”  About 40 minutes before the official announcement on April
1, an analyst with Height Analytics LLC in  Washington  issued a
note to clients that correctly predicted the decision and caused
shares of Humana and others to rise. The administrator of CMS,
 Marilyn Tavenner , later said that the decision to reduce the
payment cut was made two weeks before it was released.  Grassley’s review of the e-mails found “no evidence CMS
revealed anything prematurely” to people outside the
government, Gerber said. Grassley has requested similar e-mail
records from the budget office, Gerber said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  