-- Edward Snowden: Criminal or Model Citizen?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-10T22:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/edward-snowden-criminal-or-model-citizen-.html
If everything Edward Snowden says is
true, he is a criminal whose actions may have endangered
American lives. He is also a conscientious citizen, risking
career and liberty to expose what he believes to be grave
wrongdoing. This is the paradox underlying government
surveillance programs in general, and in particular the shaky
foundations of the U.S. national security apparatus.  Snowden, an employee of Booz Allen Hamilton working in
 Hawaii  as a contractor for the National Security Agency, has
revealed himself as the source of leaks about a program called
Prism, which allows the NSA to collect and mine user data from
companies such as Google Inc., Facebook Inc. and Microsoft Corp.
Until recently, according to news media reports, Snowden was
holed up in a Hong Kong hotel; he says  he intends  to seek asylum
from “any countries that believe in free speech.”  There’s a compelling case to be made against Snowden’s
actions. If Prism played the central role that officials claim,
then revealing its existence could significantly harm Americans’
safety. If Snowden didn’t want to be part of such a program, he
could have simply left his job. If he thought the program was
being run improperly, he could have taken his concerns to the
agency’s inspector general or to Congress.  Leakers’ Dilemma  But anyone seeking to pass judgment on Snowden should try
to understand the dilemma he describes. He says he didn’t want
to live in a society that engages in the sort of program he
worked on. Based on statements from President  Barack Obama  and
members of Congress, it seems unlikely that Snowden would have
found much support from inside government for his view that the
program was abusive. So he concluded -- perhaps irresponsibly,
perhaps arrogantly -- that going public was the only way to
force a change.  Snowden’s case highlights the difficulty, if not
impossibility, of debating U.S. national security policy in this
age of ubiquitous technology: How do you build informed public
consent for surveillance when the only people who know about
those programs can’t talk about them? And without the public’s
consent, how can those programs be legitimate in a democratic
society?  Those questions aren’t new, but Snowden’s revelations give
them new importance. Those who think what he did was wrong need
to do more than just criticize his actions. The goal should be
to make it easier for others like him to follow their
consciences without breaking the law. And we need to have the
public debate that Snowden concluded was lacking -- a point that
can’t reasonably be contested, even by his angriest detractors.  The Obama administration may be tempted to respond to
Snowden’s actions by intensifying its policy of intimidating
would-be leakers through prosecutions. Yet as this case
demonstrates, the prospect of imprisonment doesn’t deter
everyone. The administration and Congress should instead
acknowledge that members of the intelligence community need
better avenues for reporting practices they find to be abusive -
- if only because, absent such avenues, there will be more
Edward Snowdens.  Snowden hasn’t alleged any illegal activity. Yet there are
reforms that could be useful, even if they wouldn’t apply in his
case.  One option would be to give contractors with access to
classified information the same whistle-blower protections that
government intelligence personnel received under a presidential
 directive  issued last year. Another would be to expand the role
of the Office of Special Counsel or similar body to include the
investigation of the type of privacy abuses Snowden says he
observed. If would-be leakers think they can get a fair hearing
for their complaints without going to the media, they may make
different choices.  Classified Expansion  The fact that Snowden was an employee of Booz Allen
Hamilton has also  raised questions  about the appropriateness of
turning over so much of our national security and intelligence
work to private contractors. That may be a legitimate point, but
its relevance is to the vast expansion of the surveillance state
-- and the explosion of classified information. There were about
1.3 million people with top-secret security  clearance  last year,
more than a third of them government contractors.  Instead of asking whether the government should rely less
on companies such as  Booz Allen , the Snowden affair compels us
to ask a different question: Whether the U.S. national security
apparatus is now too big, and its techniques too sweeping, to
maintain the level of secrecy the government claims it needs --
and what size, and which means, are appropriate for a democratic
republic.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 