-- Egypt Urges Cooperation on Ethiopia’s Nile River Hydropower Dam
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-06-10T15:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/egypt-urges-cooperation-on-ethiopia-s-nile-river-hydropower-dam.html
Egyptian Prime Minister Hisham Qandil said his government opposes  Ethiopia ’s construction of a
dam on the Nile River and called for cooperation on the project
to ensure  Egypt ’s interests are protected.  Studies conducted so far by a committee made up of neutral
experts and officials from Ethiopia, Egypt and  Sudan  have failed
to show whether the dam will affect Egypt’s share of the Nile,
Qandil said in remarks broadcast on state television today in
the capital, Cairo. The project, known as the Grand Ethiopian
Renaissance Dam, will generate 6,000 megawatts once built and
will be  Africa ’s largest hydropower plant.  “Egypt opposes dam construction in light of the
information available,” Qandil said. “Egypt has legal,
diplomatic and technical alternatives to deal with the situation
if the dam proves harmful to the country and Ethiopia insists on
building it.”  Ethiopia, source of the largest of the Nile’s two
tributaries, may start filling the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance
Dam on the Blue Nile River by 2015. Construction of the 80
billion-birr ($4.3 billion) dam began in 2011 and is scheduled
for completion in 2017. Egypt, which relies on the Nile for
almost all of its water, has historically opposed upstream
projects on the world’s longest river.  At a meeting hosted by President Mohamed Mursi last week,
Egyptian politicians including Younis Makhyoun, head of the
ultraconservative Islamist Al-Nour party, suggested the project
should be sabotaged.  Rebel Assault  “Egypt can coordinate with rebels in Ethiopia and use them
as a bargaining chip with the Ethiopian government” Makhyoun
said. “If this fails, then there is no choice but to use
intelligence to destroy the dam.”  Mursi has been criticized by opposition politicians
including Abu el-Ghar, head of the Egyptian  Social Democratic
Party , for his handling of the issue.  “Mursi and the Muslim Brotherhood group are running the
Ethiopian dam issue with a total recklessness and a lack of
efficiency, information, studies or clear plans,” el-Ghar said
today at a press briefing transmitted by ON TV, an Egyptian
satellite broadcaster. There is also a “big delay in taking
measures to preserve Egypt’s historical rights,” he said.  Qandil reiterated Mursi’s previous statement that Egypt
will defend its rights to Nile waters.  “Water is a matter of life and death for Egypt and we
won’t give up a drop of Nile water,” Qandil said. “I’d like to
say to our brothers in Ethiopia, let’s seize the opportunity and
foster cooperation and enhance relations between both countries,
based on common interests.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  