-- Egyptian Female-Free TV Series to Show on Islamic Channel
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-06-10T12:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/egyptian-female-free-tv-series-to-show-on-islamic-channel.html
The first men-only soap opera is set
to be screened in  Egypt  during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan
with the aim of introducing “a cleaner and more conservative
version of art,” the show’s director said.  The comedy sitcom “Cafe Show” is scheduled to hit
Egyptian screens next month on the Islamic satellite channel Al-Hafez, director Wagdy El-Araby said in a telephone interview in
Cairo today.  “We’re making art and drama without angering God or
violating Islamic rules,” El-Araby said.  The entire cast, including actors and studio workers, will
be male. The series revolves around a group of men sitting at a
street cafe and discussing social, political and economic issues,
according to El-Araby.  The director, who’s also an actor well-known for his roles
in historical Islamic series, said the script is intended to
introduce art that avoids the mixing of men and women which is
discouraged by Islam. “It’s like going to the gym, it’s not ok
for women to go and mix with half-naked men,” he said.  Last year saw the launch of Maria TV, a satellite channel
solely run by fully veiled women. The appearance of such
channels follows the rise of ultra-conservative Muslims in Egypt
since the fall of President  Hosni Mubarak  in 2011. Artists have
been organizing protests in recent weeks demanding the dismissal
of the new Minister of Culture Alaa Abdel-Aziz, accusing him of
attempting to impose a conservative religious agenda on the
arts.  “The media should target all sections of society and we
believe there’s a market and a room for growth for art that has
an Islamic color,” El-Araby said. “I find it embarrassing when
I’m sitting next to my wife, watching TV with all the obscene
scenes and improper language used. It’s time to have a cleaner
version of art.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  