-- Elan Board Rejects $6.7 Billion Royalty Pharma Offer
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-06-10T09:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/elan-board-rejects-6-7-billion-royalty-pharma-offer.html
Elan Corp. (ELN) ’s board unanimously
rejected Royalty Pharma’s raised $6.7 billion takeover offer and
hired Citigroup Inc. to assess “several unsolicited corporate
enquiries.”  Royalty Pharma, an investor in royalty streams from
pharmaceuticals, last week raised its bid to buy Dublin-based
Elan Corp. by 5 percent in the second increase in its attempt to
take over the Irish biotechnology company.  The all-cash offer of $13 per American depositary receipt
surpassed a previous bid of $12.50 and compares with the $13.44
closing price on June 7. The new proposal potentially values
each Elan share at as much as $15.50 if multiple sclerosis drug
Tysabri meets certain sales and development goals. If all three
targets are met, Royalty would pay a contingent value right of
$2.50 a share, for a total of $8 billion.  “Royalty Pharma’s revised offer continues to grossly
undervalue Tysabri,” Elan’s board said in a statement. “The
Elan board and executive management remain unanimous in
recommending the four previously announced transactions.”  Elan shareholders will vote on the four deals, including a
$1 billion investment in  Theravance Inc. (THRX) ’s royalties, on June
17. The result will determine whether Dublin-based Royalty will
proceed with its unsolicited offer.  Tysabri’s Performance  Elan, under Chief Executive Officer Kelly Martin, is also
considering other offers, the board said today.  “Both the board and executive management are aligned in
exploring all opportunities that maximize the full value of the
company for its shareholders,” it said.  Interested parties could include companies looking to make
royalties acquisitions or U.S.-based drugmakers aiming to
leverage Elan’s Irish tax rate, said Richard Parkes, an analyst
at Deutsche Bank in  London .  “How firm or exploratory those indications of interest are
is anybody’s guess,” he said. “In our view, it seems unlikely
that there will be third parties that will offer anything
meaningfully higher” than Royalty Pharma’s bid.  The contingent value rights are tied to events including
regulatory approval for expanded use of Tysabri; the achievement
of global sales of $2.6 billion in four consecutive quarters
before the end of 2015; and the achievement of $3.1 billion in
sales in four quarters by the end of 2017, Royalty Pharma said.
The offer isn’t conditional on due diligence.  Avoid Risks  An acquisition by Royalty would enable Elan shareholders to
avoid the risks of former Merrill Lynch & Co. banker Martin’s
strategy of reinvesting the $3.25 billion Elan received from
 Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  for  divesting  its stake in Tysabri, Royalty
said. Elan has said it will pay investors dividends directly
linked to Tysabri sales as a 20 percent share of the royalty
received from Biogen.  “Elan has undertaken what Royalty Pharma considers to be a
frenetic jumble of value-destructive” transactions intended to
deter the pursuit of Elan, Royalty Pharma has said.  In addition to the Theravance deal, Elan’s shareholders
will vote on a $340 million takeover of Vienna-based AOP Orphan
Pharmaceuticals AG, the spin-out of an experimental drug called
ELND005 for Alzheimer’s disease to Speranza Therapeutics and
$200 million in share buybacks.  Proxy Advisers  Royalty Pharma urged Elan shareholders to vote against all
four proposals, citing recommendations from proxy advisers
Institutional Shareholder Services and  Glass Lewis .  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and Groton
Partners are advising Royalty Pharma. Elan’s financial advisers
include Davy Corporate Finance, Morgan Stanley, Ondra Partners
and Citigroup.  Founded in 1996, Royalty Pharma owns royalty interests in
38 approved and marketed pharmaceutical products. For example,
in 2004, the firm bought  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
Center ’s U.S. royalty interest in Amgen Inc.’s Neupogen drug.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  