-- Electrocomponents Dips on Credit Suisse Downgrade: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-06-10T12:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/electrocomponents-dips-on-credit-suisse-downgrade-london-mover.html
Electrocomponents Plc (ECM)  and  Premier
Farnell Plc (PFL)  fell to the lowest in at least a month in London
after analysts at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  downgraded the
electronics distributors on concern of slower growth recovery.  Electrocomponents, based in Oxford,  England , fell as much
as 2.9 percent to the lowest intraday price since May 9 and was
down 2.5 percent at 256.2 pence at 12:20 p.m. in London, paring
the gain this year to 8.6 percent. London-based Premier Farnell
declined as much as 4.5 percent to the lowest since April 16,
and was down 4.3 percent to 200.5 pence, cutting its gain to 2.7
percent this year.  The “shares have done well in the recent cyclical rally,”
Credit Suisse analysts based in  London , including David Rigby,
said in a note to clients. “We believe the near term outlook
has moderated, with the organic growth recovery likely to be
more gradual than we had previously expected.”  The pick-up in electronics indicators seen for later this
year and early in 2014 has dissipated and is barely sufficient
to offset continued weakness in the maintenance market, Credit
Suisse said. The muted sales recovery limits further improvement
to the two companies’ earnings estimates, dividends and share
prices, the analysts said.  Credit Suisse cut the ratings on both stocks to neutral
from outperform, lowered earnings estimates for fiscal years
2014 to 2106 and reduced the 12-month price estimates.  “With limited upside to our price targets we downgrade
both to neutral, seeing more undervalued growth elsewhere
amongst stocks currently valued as cyclical,” they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  