-- Telefonica Said to Seek Bids for Irish Unit 02 Within Month
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-06-10T15:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/telefonica-said-to-seek-bids-for-irish-unit-02-within-month.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Europe’s most
indebted telephone company, is seeking initial bids for its
Irish unit within the month, two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  The potential bidders --  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd (13) , Ireland’s
largest phone company Eircom Group and Liberty Global Inc.’s UPC
Ireland -- have received information on the sale, said one of
the people, who asked not to be identified as the process is
private.  Bank of America  Corp. is managing the disposal,
according to the people.  Telefonica spokesman Miguel Angel Garzon declined to
comment on the sale plans.   Telefonica, a year into its most ambitious asset disposal
program, may raise more than 700 million euros ($923.6 million)
from the sale of its Irish unit, 02, according to the people.
Last month, the Madrid-based company repeated that it wants to
cut its net debt to less than 47 billion euros by year end from
about 51.2 billion euros.  O2 is the second largest of five operators in the Irish
cell phone market, which generated 1.5 billion euros of sales
last year. The company’s market share fell to 25 percent in the
fourth quarter from 34 percent two years earlier, as  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , Eircom and Hutchison Whampoa’s Three Ireland added
customers, according to  ComReg , the Dublin-based communications
authority.  Failed Bid  Hutchison, which made a failed attempt to buy Eircom last
year, is planning to make a bid for 02, according to people
familiar. Three declined to comment on O2.  “We do believe that consolidation will take place in the
Irish telecoms market and Three will be a consolidator,” the
company said in an e-mailed response to questions. “With
Hutchison Whampoa interested in investing further in Ireland, we
will consider opportunities that arise.”  Eircom also wants to buy rivals, its Chief Financial
Officer Richard Moat said in an interview last month. The
company changed ownership last year for the sixth time since
1999, as 1.8 billion euros of its debt was written off under
bankruptcy protection.  Paul Bradley, spokesman for Eircom, declined to comment
beyond Moat’s statement.  Liberty Global (LBTYA)  Inc.’s UPC Ireland, a digital television and
broadband provider, is also interested in 02, the Sunday
Independent reported last month.  “Until we’re ready to launch with a service, we will not
be revealing our plans about mobile in Ireland,” UPC
spokeswoman Anna-Maria Barry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  