-- Elektra, Genomma, Multiva, Alsea: Mexico Bond Alert
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-06-10T18:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/elektra-genomma-multiva-alsea-mexico-bond-alert-correct-.html
(Corrects Genomma’s planned amount in fifth paragraph.)  Comision Federal de Electricidad,
 Grupo Elektra SAB (ELEKTRA*) ,  Genomma Lab Internacional SAB (LABB) , Banco Multiva
SA and  Alsea SAB (ALSEA*)  are among issuers that plan to sell bonds in
Mexico’s debt market.  COMISION FEDERAL DE ELECTRICIDAD: The state-owned utility
company said in a filing to the Mexican stock exchange that it
planned to sell in June as much as 15 billion pesos ($1.18
billion) in five-year debt as part of a program to raise as much
as 50 billion pesos. (Added June 10)  CORP. INTERAMERICANA DE ENTRETENIMIENTO SAB : The events and
entertainment company said in a filing that it plans to sell in
July as much as 500 million pesos in bonds as part of a program
to raise as much as 1.5 billion pesos. (Added June 10)  GRUPO ELEKTRA SAB: The retail and banking company
controlled by the billionaire  Ricardo Salinas  plans to sell as
much as 3.5 billion pesos in three-year bonds as part of a
program to raise as much as 5 billion pesos. (Added June 10)  GENOMMA LAB INTERNACIONAL SAB: The Mexican maker of over-the-counter drugs plans to sell as much as 2 billion pesos in
debt as part of a program to raise as much as 8 billion pesos
this year, according to a filing with the Mexican stock
exchange. (Added June 10)  ALSEA SAB: The operator of Domino’s Pizza stores and
Starbucks in Latin America said in a filing that it plans to
sell as much as 2.5 billion pesos in five-year bonds as part of
a program to raise as much as 3.5 billion pesos. The sale is now
planned for June 19. (Updated June 10)  PETROLEOS MEXICANOS: The state-owned oil company said in
filings with the stock exchange that it was considering selling
fixed-rate, floating-rate or inflation-linked local currency
debt. The company didn’t provide details on the size or date of
a possible sale. (Added June 3)  BANCO MULTIVA SA: The Mexican lender said in a filing that
it plans to raise as much as 750 million pesos in three-year
floating-rate bonds linked to the interbank rate. (Added May 27)  SCOTIABANK INVERLAT SA: The Bank of Nova Scotia unit said
in a filing that it plans to sell as much as 2.3 billion pesos
in 10-year bonds as part of a program to issue as much as 15
billion pesos. (Added May 27)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in  Mexico  City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  