-- Emlak Drops Most on Record as Share Sale Shelved: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-06-10T15:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/emlak-drops-most-on-record-as-share-sale-shelved-istanbul-mover.html
Emlak Konut Gayrimenkul Yatirim
Ortakligi AS (EKGYO)  slumped the most on record after the state-owned
property developer delayed a share sale, citing stock market
turmoil triggered by the anti-government protests in  Turkey .  The  shares  plunged 9.7 percent to 2.79 liras at the close
in Istanbul, the most since Emlak started trading in December
2010. The benchmark  Borsa Istanbul National 100 (XU100)  index slid 2.5
percent, while the 28-member property developers’  gauge  in which
Emlak Konut has a 43 percent weighting dropped 5.6 percent to
its lowest level since Nov. 29.  Emlak’s secondary public offering has been delayed until
market conditions become “more suitable,” the company said in
a statement after trading closed June 7. Protests against Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  and his government have roiled
Turkey’s markets, with the  stock index  slumping 11 percent and
the benchmark two-year bond yields surging 43 basis points, or
0.43 percentage point, since June 3.  The decision to delay the sale was made in consultation
with international and domestic bookrunners, the company said in
the statement.  Emlak Konut, which is 75 percent owned by the Housing
Development Administration of Turkey, sought to raise as much as
4 billion liras ($2.1 billion) from the sale of 1.3 billion
shares at a reference price of between 2.65 liras and 3.1 liras
a share. Eighty percent of the offering was allocated for
foreign corporate investors, according to an investor
presentation prepared by Emlak.  Foreign Investors  “An investor might question why one should buy Emlak Konut
at current levels when the company was unable to find demand at
2.65 liras,” Kurthan Atmaca, an analyst at Ekspres Invest in
Istanbul, said in a phone interview today, referring to the
lower limit of the delayed offering. “What we have here is a
company that has failed to attract foreign investors.”  Erdogan addressed thousands of supporters in the cities of
Adana, Mersin and Ankara over the weekend, blaming a so-called
“interest-rate lobby” for stoking street unrest. In the event
protesters remain in the streets, “we’ll have to answer them in
the language they understand,” he said.  “If the tensions were resolved today, we wouldn’t have
seen such a decline,” Atmaca said. “Nobody knows what’s going
to happen -- that’s the uncertainty that the market is currently
pricing in.”  Emlak planned to use most of the delayed sale’s proceeds to
“finance investments related to land purchases,” according to
the investor presentation. The company reported net income of
 523.4 million liras  in 2012, more than double its profit in the
previous year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  