-- Mercatus Gets Funds for Solar Rating to Spur Financing
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-06-10T14:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/mercatus-gets-funding-for-solar-rating-system-to-boost-financing.html
Mercatus Inc. , a startup developing
technology to facilitate financing for renewable-energy
projects, received $2 million to commercialize its system that
helps evaluate the risk of investing in solar plants.  Vision Ridge Partners LLC led the Series A funding round,
which also included Augment Ventures, according to a statement
today from  Santa Clara , California-based Mercatus.  Backers’ growing interest in solar power is hindered by the
due diligence required for each potential investment, said Chief
Executive Officer Haresh Patel. Combing over hundreds of pages
of data adds a “grunge factor” to the lending process, a task
that may take months for large power plants, he said. The
automated Mercatus system cuts that to about a week.  “The old way of doing due diligence on large nuclear or
coal plants is dead,” Patel said in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York.  Due diligence is just as time-consuming for small and mid-sized solar plants as it is for larger projects. For banks,
power producers and  hedge funds  that want to invest in solar
energy, the effort to evaluate projects of about three megawatts
and below may outweigh the smaller potential return, Patel said.  Developers upload details about their projects, including
panel suppliers, construction timelines and local regulations,
and the tool uses the data to generate a rating to help users
evaluate them. The score is akin to the credit ratings that
banks use to evaluate the risk of consumer loans, Patel said.  “We work with the developers for the investors and provide
a match-making service,” Patel said. “We want to be the FICO
score of solar projects.” Developers pay Mercatus a fee to use
the service, which he said makes it easier for them to get
funding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  