-- Terra Firma Plans to List 25% of Deutsche Annington in IPO
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-06-10T14:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/terra-firma-to-sell-25-of-landlord-deutsche-annington-in-ipo.html
Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd.,
the private-equity firm run by  Guy Hands , plans to list about 25
percent of Deutsche Annington Immobilien AG in an initial public
offering that may value the company at as much as 4.6 billion
euros ($6.1 billion.)  The IPO of Deutsche Annington,  Germany ’s largest
residential landlord by number of properties, may raise about
1.2 billion euros, according to a person with knowledge of the
deal who asked not to be identified because the information is
private. That includes about 400 million euros from new shares
sold by Deutsche Annington, which will use some of the proceeds
to pay down debt, Chief Executive Officer Rolf Buch said today
in a telephone interview.  Terra Firma, which founded Deutsche Annington in 2001, is
seeking new investors at a time when demand for German real
estate stocks is faltering. The  FTSE EPRA/Nareit index of German
property stocks  has declined 4.1 percent this year, after
climbing 33 percent in 2012. The benchmark DAX Index has gained
9.4 percent in 2013.  LEG Immobilien AG (LEG) , a German competitor formerly owned by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., raised about 1.3 billion euros in a
share sale earlier this year that was the largest in the
country’s real estate industry. Since then, the shares have
dropped 4.4 percent from the IPO price of 44 euros each.  Berlin, Cologne  Deutsche Annington plans to use part of the proceeds from
the capital increase to reduce its loan-to-value ratio to about
50 percent from 54 percent, Buch said. The company owns 180,000
apartments in cities including Berlin and Cologne.  Gagfah SA (GFJ) ,
Germany’s second-largest landlord, has 144,000 apartments.  Deutsche Annington joins forklift-maker Kion Group GmbH and
academic publisher Springer Science & Business Media GmbH that
also are attempting to list on the German market this quarter.
The real estate company began making presentations to investors
today and the process typically lasts for two weeks, after which
investors have about two weeks to put in orders for shares in
the IPO.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Morgan Stanley will lead the IPO.
Other managers include  Bank of America Corp. ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
Berenberg Bank,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and Kempen & Co., Deutsche
Annington said in a statement today.  Terra Firma owns about 85 percent of Deutsche Annington,
according to the statement.  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  owns
the rest.  Debt Refinancing  Annington said today it plans to fully pay back its German
Residential Asset Note Distributor Plc by October after spending
more than a year restructuring the commercial mortgage-backed
security. GRAND was valued at 5.8 billion euros when it was
issued in 2006, making it  Europe ’s biggest corporate CMBS. It
was due to mature this year until a court in December gave
Annington five more years to pay investors the remaining 3.8
billion euros.  Banks have agreed to lend about 940 million euros, which
Annington expects to receive in October at the latest, the
company said today. In addition, JPMorgan and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
have offered an unsecured loan of 2.5 billion euros, it said. In
January, Annington said it had obtained a 785 million-euro loan
from Berlin Hyp and another lender.  “We are well ahead of the repayment schedule on GRAND,”
Buch said. “We’ve done our homework and are very well prepared
for the IPO.”  Company Strategy  Annington will continue its strategy of boosting profit by
selling apartments, he said. The company sold about 4,800 homes
in 2012, according to today’s statement.  “Privatization is a long-term business model for us,”
Chief Financial Officer Stefan Kirsten said by phone. “That’s
how we’re different from our competitors. When we sell 2,000
apartments a year out of the 180,000 we have, it doesn’t
substantially affect the base.”  Annington’s funds from operations including disposals, a
measure of a property company’s ability to generate cash, rose
17 percent in the first quarter to 56 million euros, the company
said today.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization rose 1.3 percent to 121 million
euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  