-- EU Carbon Glut Means More Cuts Needed for 2030 Goal, Ecofys Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-06-10T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/eu-carbon-glut-means-more-cuts-needed-for-2030-goal-ecofys-says.html
A record surplus of carbon permits
in the European Union’s emissions trading system will make it
harder for the bloc to meet its 2030 climate goals, according to
a report by Ecofys, the environmental research company.  The EU will need to cut  carbon emissions  by an extra seven
percentage points because of the surplus of allowances, which
can be held over into the next decade, according to the report
commissioned by Greenpeace. The 27-nation bloc has a binding
target of cutting greenhouse-gas output by 20 percent in 2020
from 1990 levels, and should reduce pollution by 40 percent in
2030, according to the EU’s regulatory arm.  “It is essential for the effectiveness of the EU’s
emissions trading system that the trajectory of the EU’s
greenhouse-gas target until 2030 is set in a way that takes into
account any pre-2020 surplus,” Niklas Hoehne, director of
energy and climate policy at Utrecht, Netherlands-based Ecofys,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  The European cap-and-trade program imposes pollution limits
on about 12,000 manufacturing companies and utilities in the
region, including German utility EON SE and steelmaker
 ArcelorMittal. (MT)   Europe ’s economic slowdown reduced industrial
production and cut demand for pollution rights, boosting the
surplus of permits to about 2 billion metric tons last year, a
level almost matching annual supply, according to the EU.  Stringent Target  “Given the currently expected surplus, the 2030 target or
the trajectory towards it would need to be significantly more
stringent than otherwise,” Hoehne said.  The permit glut pushed carbon prices in the EU emissions
trading system, or ETS, to a record 2.46 euros ($3.25) a metric
ton in April. The European Commission proposed delaying sales of
some allowances, which member states and the European Parliament
are currently considering. The stopgap measure would be followed
by a deeper overhaul of the carbon market.  Greenpeace called on the commission, national governments
and the Parliament to support cutting carbon emissions by at
least 55 percent in 2030. That target should be a part of a EU
new climate and energy package that includes a 45 percent
objective for renewable energy and a binding energy savings
goal, according to the lobby.  “This report shows the 40 percent 2030 carbon target put
forward by the European Commission is woefully inadequate,
especially given the impact of a failing ETS,” Greenpeace EU
climate policy director Joris den Blanken said in the statement.
“The EU needs a stricter 2030 target if it wants to keep the
ETS alive and avoid the most severe effects of  climate change .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  