-- EU Seeks to Resolve U.K.-Germany Split on Derivatives Clearing
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-10T17:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/eu-seeks-to-resolve-u-k-germany-split-on-derivatives-clearing.html
European Union nations will seek
a deal on how far exchanges such as Germany’s  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) 
should be forced to open up their derivatives-clearing services
to competition as part of an overhaul of the bloc’s financial
market rules.  Ireland, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, is
urging nations to accept “difficult compromises” to clinch a
deal on the draft plans, which triggered clashes between Germany
and the U.K., according to an EU document, dated June 10,
obtained by Bloomberg News. Finance ministers may be called on
to break the deadlock when they meet later this month if
diplomats fail to find a deal, it said.  “Clearing access has been a very polarized issue,”
according to the document. Ireland is seeking agreement
on a compromise that would hand clearinghouses some rights to
access rivals’ trade data, while building in “sufficient
safeguards” to protect market stability.  The U.K. and  Germany  disagree over the competition plans,
which target exchanges such as Deutsche Boerse that channel
trades through their own in-house clearing services. While the
U.K. has argued that greater competition will reduce costs for
investors, Germany has said that the plans would fragment
markets and harm financial stability. Both nations have garnered
support from other EU states.  A spokeswoman for Ireland’s EU presidency declined to
comment.  ‘Speculative Trading’  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, proposed
overhauling the bloc’s Markets in Financial Instruments
Directive, or Mifid, in 2011 to counter “speculative trading
activities” and implement agreements reached by the Group of 20
nations.  Aside from the derivatives-clearing rules, the proposals
seek to push more trading onto regulated markets, toughen
oversight of high-frequency trading, and limit the size of
positions on commodity derivatives markets.  The draft law must be adopted by governments and by the
European Parliament before it can take effect. Legislators in
the assembly agreed on their negotiating position last year.  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and Deutsche
Boerse’s  Eurex Clearing  operate as central counterparties for
every buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  