-- EU Oil Probe Needs More Transparency, Platts Executive Says
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i   a n d   W i n n i e   Z h u
-- 2013-06-10T14:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/eu-s-oil-probe-needs-more-transparency-platts-executive-says.html
The European Commission’s probe into
oil markets needs to be clearer in its objectives, according to
Platts, an energy news and price publisher that was among the
companies raided last month by investigators.  “I hope very much that in those investigations they can
share with us very transparently what is it that they are
looking for and who precisely they are looking at,” Jorge Montepeque, Platts’s director of market reporting, said at a
conference in Kuala Lumpur today. “We need as much transparency
in government action as we need transparency in the actions by
the industry.”  European Union antitrust regulators raided the offices of
Platts and oil companies  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and
 Statoil ASA (STL)  starting on May 14 to investigate possible price
manipulation and collusion by traders. Platts, owned by McGraw
Hill Financial, provided data and is cooperating with the
inquiry. It continues to publish benchmark prices including
North Sea Dated Brent, against which more than half the world’s
crude is valued.  “One should prove there is a manipulation first and then
try to find a solution for the problem if there is one,”
Montepeque said.  Vitol’s View  Trading houses including Vitol Group, Glencore Xstrata Plc
and Gunvor Group Ltd., which aren’t themselves under
investigation, were asked last month to provide information to
regulators, according to three people familiar with the
situation, who asked not to be identified because the matter is
private. The companies are assisting the commission with the
inquiry, the people said.  “We feel the industry is doing an open, transparent job,”
 Ian Taylor , Vitol’s chief executive officer, said in Kuala
Lumpur today. “Let’s get the question right first and identify
the problem,” instead of proposing more regulation, he said.
The trader generated revenue of $303 billion last year.  Platts has  said  rules drafted by global regulators to
safeguard against manipulation of financial benchmarks may make
markets less transparent, because oil traders would stop
submitting their transactions to price-reporting companies.  When asked whether Platts and its peers should be
regulated, Montepeque said: “The role of press is actually to
open up and to speak freely, without any fear of retribution if
there is something going on.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
Platts and other companies in providing energy markets news and
information.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission
in Brussels, couldn’t immediately be reached by phone and didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net ;
Winnie Zhu in Kuala Lumpur at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  