-- EU Should Move Beyond Carbon Market to Shut Coal, IEA Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-06-10T16:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/eu-should-move-beyond-carbon-market-to-shut-coal-power-iea-says.html
The European Union needs to think of
other ways to prevent new coal-fired power stations from being
built because its carbon market won’t achieve that this decade,
according to the  International Energy Agency .  Nations should consider measures including bans of new and
inefficient plants known as “sub-critical,” unless they are
fitted with  carbon capture  and storage technology, Maria Van der Hoeven, the executive director of the Paris-based agency that
advises 28 developed nations, said today in a London interview.  EU carbon permits, which have plunged 88 percent since
2008, would need to trade at 10 times their current value of
about 4 euros ($5.28) a metric ton to prompt utilities to switch
to cleaner natural gas from coal, according to a Bloomberg fuel
switch calculator. The push in  Europe  to improve  energy
efficiency  helped drive down permit prices, Van der Hoeven said.  “What we want to see is that sub critical coal-fired power
plants are less in use and are not going to be constructed any
more,” Van der Hoeven said. “The most important thing is we
look into the reasons beyond the collapse in the price of
carbon” to explain why emissions are not falling faster.  Lawmakers need to review energy policies to make sure they
don’t contradict each other or overlap to cut emissions and
protect the climate, Van der Hoeven said.  Halting Plants  “Governments have to look into the complementarity of what
they are doing. If you only look at one technology and forget
about the rest, that doesn’t help,” she said.  While the IEA does not have the authority to stop nations
using coal power, it’s urging them to halt construction of new
units, Van Der Hoeven said.  “We show them with our report what will happen if they
don’t,” she said, referring to  a report  published today called
“Redrawing the Energy-Climate Map.”  The publication contains two different scenarios. Under a
situation that limits an increase in global temperature to 2
degrees Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit), the world will leave two
thirds of its fossil fuel reserves untapped before 2050. Under
that climate-saving scenario, revenues in the power industry
through 2035 from 2012 are $1.3 trillion higher than in the
agency’s central case, which includes fewer climate protection
policies.  “The higher gross revenues result from a combination of
lower electricity demand and higher electricity prices, with the
latter effect proving slightly larger,” according to the
report.  Technology, legislation, markets and industry can operate
together to save the climate, Van der Hoeven said.  “When the Stone Age came to and end, it wasn’t because
there was no stones anymore, but because we had different
technologies,” she said. “There’s no need to use coal for our
 energy supply  if we have other options.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  