-- European Stocks Are Little Changed; Balfour Beatty Jumps
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-06-10T16:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/european-stock-futures-drop-as-china-export-growth-slows.html
European stocks  closed little changed
after fluctuating between gains and losses more than a dozen
times as  Japan ’s economy expanded more than initially estimated
while growth in Chinese exports slumped.  Balfour Beatty Plc jumped 4.8 percent after naming a new
chief for its U.K. construction business and winning a contract.
Severn Trent Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest publicly traded
water company, retreated the most in almost a year after
rejecting a takeover offer. Anglo American Plc and  Rio Tinto 
Group led  mining companies  lower as copper slid for a third day
in  London  trading.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped less than 0.1 percent to
295.22 at the close of trading. The benchmark gauge earlier
climbed as much as 0.3 percent after  Standard & Poor’s  upgraded
its outlook on the U.S.’s AA+ credit rating to stable from
negative, citing receding fiscal risks.  “After a strong session we see consolidation with volumes
below average,” Soeren Steinert, who helps manage about $24
billion as associate director for equities trading at Quoniam
Asset Management GmbH in  Frankfurt , said in an e-mail. “There
is no company news that could influence individual stock prices
and it seems that there is little interest in the extremely
strong Japanese session and the macroeconomic figures from the
country.”  The number of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
was 7.4 percent less than the 30-day average today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Speculation  The Stoxx 600 has retreated 5 percent since May 22 amid
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus as the  U.S.
economy  strengthens. Reports in America this week may show
retail sales climbed in May and business inventories increased
in April after data on June 7 showed a gain in payrolls,
according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said today
that inflation below the central bank’s 2 percent target
warrants prolonging the “aggressive” use of bond buying to
spur growth and bring down unemployment.  In Japan,  gross domestic product  expanded an annualized 4.1
percent in the first quarter, compared with a preliminary
calculation of 3.5 percent, the Cabinet Office said in  Tokyo 
today.  Consumer confidence  climbed to the highest level since
2007 in May, separate data showed. The Topix index jumped 5.2
percent for the biggest gain in two years.  China Exports  China ’s  export growth  plummeted to a 10-month low in May
and imports unexpectedly fell as a crackdown on fake trade
invoices exposed weakness in global demand. Overseas sales rose
1 percent from a year earlier, the General Administration of
Customs said on June 8, trailing 35 of 38 analysts’ estimates in
a Bloomberg survey and down from April’s 14.7 percent pace.
Imports dropped 0.3 percent.  National benchmark indexes fell in 12 of the 18 western
European markets open today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 and  France ’s
CAC 40 each slipped 0.2 percent, while  Germany ’s DAX gained 0.6
percent.  Greece ’s ASE sank 4.7 percent as the government said
the sale of Depa SA, the Greek state natural gas supplier,
received no bids.  Balfour Beatty climbed 4.8 percent to 226.3 pence, the
biggest gain in a year. Britain’s largest building company
appointed Nick Pollard to lead its U.K. construction business
and won a contract worth more than 110 million pounds ($171
million) to erect the 43-floor  Providence Tower  in London. The
company also said it plans to close three U.K. sites.  ITV Increases  ITV Plc (ITV)  increased 3.7 percent to 134.2 pence, the biggest
advance since February. Liberum Capital upgraded its  price
estimate  on the U.K. broadcaster’s shares to 200 pence from 155
pence, citing “structurally resilient” free-to-air television
advertisements and forecast growth in online and content
revenue.  Severn Trent slid 6 percent to 1,946 pence, the largest
decline since June 20, 2012. Borealis Infrastructure Management
Inc. and its partners in the LongRiver group abandoned a 5.3
billion-pound offer for Severn Trent after the U.K. water
utility declined to negotiate.  “The Severn Trent board has shown no interest in
discussing our pre-conditional offer with us,” Borealis Chief
Executive Officer Michael Rolland said in a statement today.
“In the absence of any such engagement, there will be no
further proposal from the consortium.”  A gauge of basic-resources companies fell the most among
the 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx 600, dropping 1.4 percent.  Anglo American  Anglo American and Rio Tinto retreated 2.8 percent to
1,421.5 pence and 2.4 percent to 2,740 pence, respectively.
Lonmin Plc, the world’s third-largest platinum producer, slipped
3.2 percent to 287.6 pence.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) , the Chilean copper
producer, declined 1.2 percent to 911 pence.  Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange slid as much as 1.4 percent to $7,126.50 a metric ton.  Petroleum Geo-Services ASA dropped 6.5 percent to 79
kroner, the biggest slide since November 2011. Norway’s second-largest surveyor of underwater oil and gas fields said it’s
seeing ‘low activity’ in the  Gulf of Mexico .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  