-- Eva Longoria for Latinas, Hairdo for Pelosi: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-06-10T15:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/eva-longoria-for-latinas-hairdo-for-pelosi-d-c-scene.html
“I love being in a room full of
orange,” said actress Eva Longoria Friday night after receiving
the Dorothy I. Height Racial Justice Award at the YWCA USA Women
of Distinction Awards gala.  The YWCA’s trademark color blanketed the ballroom of the
Hyatt Regency Washington on Capitol Hill.  The gala was part of the YWCA’s What Women Want Annual
Conference, which brings together advocates for women and girls.  The actress known for TV’s “Desperate Housewives” was
honored for her  Eva Longoria Foundation , which helps fellow
Latinas, and  Eva’s Heroes , which supports those who, like her
sister, struggle with developmental challenges.  Longoria was a national co-chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s campaign last year, and was a commissioner for his
inauguration.  Does she harbor any political ambitions of her own? “No, I
just like to participate,” she said on the red carpet, wearing
a form-fitting black dress and a pendant in the shape of her
home state of Texas.  She said her role model was Dolores Huerta, the farm-workers activist, with whom she has formed a friendship.  Allstate Insurance Co. received the Corporate Social
Responsibility Award, and retired Navy Commander Zoe Dunning
accepted the Military/Veterans Affairs Award.  Patty Stonesifer, president and chief executive of  Martha’s
Table , received the Philanthropy Award, and Sharon Love, co-founder of the  One Love Foundation , got the Advocacy and Civic
Engagement Award.  Hair Apparent  What do Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  and Major League
Baseball player  Ryan Zimmerman  of the  Washington Nationals  have
in common?  They’re both regulars at George at the Four Seasons, which
celebrated its $100,000 salon renovation with an al fresco party
last night.  A model with her hair shaped in a bowtie wore electric-blue
eye shadow applied by  Michelle Obama ’s makeup artist, Carl Ray,
who works at the Pennsylvania Avenue salon, where cuts start at
$120.  Nearby, Debbie Dingell, the president of D2 strategies,
stood in a black dress and pearls, her blond locks falling
smoothly to her shoulders.  Morning Convert  “When I discovered I could get my hair done at 7 a.m., I
became a convert,” she said, following in the footsteps of
Pelosi, who visits the salon every morning, according to co-owner and stylist Omer Cevirme.  Dingell’s husband, Democratic Representative John Dingell
of Michigan, made history last week by becoming the longest
serving member of Congress.  Where does he prefer to get coiffed? “In Michigan or on
 Capitol Hill ” at the congressional barbershop, she said.  Other salon regulars present included Deborah Sigmund, the
founder of  Innocents at Risk , and Susanna Quinn, the wife of
lobbyist Jack Quinn.  Cevirme said he also works on Democratic senators  Claire McCaskill  of Missouri and  Amy Klobuchar  of Wisconsin, and
actress  Glenn Close  when she’s in town.  “It’s great people watching,” said Ray. “We’re like a
social scene. It’s an institution.”  His only criticism of Washington women? “Too much
foundation.”  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on music,
Philip Boroff on  theater .  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 