-- Ex-AMD Workers at Nvidia Lose Bid to End Secrets Lawsuit
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-06-10T20:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/ex-amd-workers-at-nvidia-lose-bid-to-end-secrets-lawsuit.html
Former employees of  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. (AMD)  lost a bid for dismissal of claims that when they
joined competing chipmaker  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  they disclosed  trade
secrets  and urged ex-colleagues to follow them.  U.S. District Judge Timothy Hillman in Worcester,
 Massachusetts , today rejected a motion to dismiss claims
including misappropriation of trade secrets and breach of
contract. The judge did grant a request to throw out a claim of
unfair competition.  “Plaintiff has demonstrated a likelihood of success on the
merits with regard to misappropriation,” Hillman said in an
order denying most of the defendants’ motion.  AMD, based in Sunnyvale, California, accused the ex-employees of taking sensitive company documents when they went
to work for Nvidia. The former employees transferred more than
100,000 electronic files pertaining to AMD’s graphics-processor
business in the days before their departure, AMD said in a
complaint filed in January. The employees also allegedly
recruited other AMD workers to leave the company.  “The facts clearly outlined in our pleadings are supported
by forensic evidence,”  Michael Silverman , a spokesman for AMD,
said today in an e-mail. “Current and former AMD employees are
contractually required to honor the ongoing confidentiality and
nonsolicitation obligations each agreed to while employed by
us.”  Trade Secrets  Hillman last month granted AMD an injunction barring the
ex-workers from disclosing trade secrets or soliciting former
colleagues.  Advanced Micro said that the transferred documents included
confidential information such as licensing agreements with
significant customers, proposed strategies concerning licensing
and technical information about new products and processes the
company is developing.  Three of the former employees -- Robert Feldstein, Manoo
Desai and Nicolas Kociuk -- transferred secret files to  storage
devices , AMD said in its complaint. Feldstein, Desai and a
fourth defendant, Richard Hagen, violated agreements to not
solicit other employees for a period of time after leaving the
company, according to AMD.  Franklin Gowdy, a lawyer representing the defendants,
didn’t respond to messages seeking comment on the ruling.  The employees all worked at AMD’s site in Boxborough,
Massachusetts, according to the complaint.  A fifth former employee, Deepaksrivats Thirumalai, was
added to the complaint in April.  Nvidia, based in  Santa Clara , California, isn’t a defendant
in the suit. Nvidia is AMD’s primary competitor in the video-game graphics chip industry, according to the lawsuit.  The case is Advanced Micro Devices v. Feldstein, 13-cv-40007, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Worcester).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  