-- Exide Files for Bankruptcy After Losing Wal-Mart Business
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h ,   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-06-10T16:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/exide-technologies-files-for-bankruptcy-in-delaware.html
Exide Technologies (XIDE) , the 125-year-old
battery maker, filed for bankruptcy after  California 
environmental regulators shut down one of the company’s lead-recycling plants.  After the April shutdown in Vernon, California, Exide sped
up its  restructuring plans  by hiring law firm Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and financial adviser Alvarez & Marsal
North America LLC, according to court records.  “As a result of the Vernon shutdown and the company’s poor
financial performance in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2013, it
became apparent that a successful out-of-court restructuring was
unlikely,” Chief Financial Officer Phillip Damaska said in a
filing today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The company, based in Milton,  Georgia , listed  debts  of
$1.14 billion and assets of $1.89 billion in its Chapter 11
filing. The filing won’t affect obligations outside the U.S.,
Exide said in a statement. Exide has about 3,600 employees and
operations in more than 80 countries, making lead-acid batteries
used in cars, trucks, tractors and boats.  The California Department of Toxic Substances and Control
ordered Exide to suspend operations at the recycling plant on
April 24, saying the facility didn’t comply with state health
standards, the company said the next day in a regulatory filing.  Disputed Findings  Exide said it disputes the regulators’ findings and is
fighting to reopen the plant. In the meantime, the company has a
short-term source to replace lead it got from the Vernon plant
and is trying to secure a long-term supply, according to court
papers.  The company began a restructuring effort after  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  in 2010 switched to  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI)  to supply
automotive batteries, Damaska said in the filing. The loss of
Wal-Mart as a customer reduced Exide’s sales by about
$160 million a year, he said. Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,
 Arkansas , is the world’s largest retailer.  The closing of the Vernon plant will cut about $24 million
from Exide’s earnings before taxes, interest and depreciation, a
common financial measure known as Ebitda, Damaska said.  Exide also blamed the economic slowdown in  Europe , where it
gets about half of its revenue. In the first three months of
this year, Ebitda fell to $14 million from $54 million in the
same period in 2012, the company said.  Exide fell 10 percent to 18 cents at 12:21 p.m.  New York 
time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares earlier plunged
as much as 36 percent. They closed at $3.74 on Jan. 8.  Bonds Rise  The company’s 8.625 percent bonds due in 2018 climbed more
than 3 percent to 60.375 cents on the dollar, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. Exide issued the bonds in 2011, when it
borrowed $675 million.  The company has $31 million in interest payments due in
August, Damaska said. Among the largest unsecured creditors
listed in court papers are holders of $51.9 million in floating-rate convertible notes due in September.  Exide is asking a judge’s permission to borrow as much as
$500 million from lenders led by JPMorgan Chase & Co. to help
carry it through bankruptcy, according to court papers.  The case is In re Exide Technologies, 13-11482, U.S
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net 
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington;
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  