-- Facebook Rises as S&P 500 Inclusion Seen Within Next Year
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-06-10T20:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/facebook-rises-as-s-p-500-inclusion-seen-within-next-year.html
  Facebook Inc. (FB)  gained 4.5 percent
amid speculation that the world’s largest social network may be
added to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The shares rose to $24.33 at the close in New York, the
biggest increase since May 30. Facebook has  dropped  36 percent
since an initial public offering in May 2012.  With a current market value of almost $60 billion, Menlo
Park, California-based Facebook is likely to join the S&P in the
next year, according to  Jordan Rohan , an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. The timeline could follow that of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
which was added to index about 18 months after its public market
debut in August 2004, he said.  “Inclusion in a major index would significantly broaden
Facebook’s investor base, providing added liquidity and price
support, and the addition would likely cause a near-term pop in
the share price,” Rohan wrote in a research report. He upgraded
the shares to buy with a $29 target price.  Already, Facebook’s market value exceeds that of several
Internet companies in the S&P, including  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ,
 Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN)  and  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  At current levels, Facebook
would be the 59th most valuable member of the index, Rohan said.
Speculation that Facebook might be added to the S&P also
surfaced last year when the stock joined the Nasdaq 100 Index.  Ashley Zandy, a spokeswoman for Facebook, declined to
comment on whether the stock would be added to the S&P index, as
did Soogyung Cho, a spokeswoman for S&P Dow Jones Indices.  Profit Guidelines  The most important factor in Facebook joining the  S&P 500 
is whether the sub-sector of social media needs to be better
represented, according to  Howard Silverblatt , senior index
analyst at S&P Dow Jones Indices.  “The intent of the index is that it represents the U.S.
domestic large-cap market,” New York-based Silverblatt said in
a telephone interview.  While companies added to the S&P 500 have typically
reported four straight quarters of profit,  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  was an exception to that guideline when it was included in
the benchmark measure in February 2010, Silverblatt said.
Facebook has posted only two consecutive quarters of net income.  Still, Facebook reported first-quarter sales that topped
estimates, a sign that Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg 
is gaining ground in his effort to make more money from mobile
advertising. Revenue for the period rose 38 percent to $1.46
billion, topping analysts’ average estimate of $1.44 billion,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Facebook Exchange  Mobile made up about 30 percent of advertising revenue in
the first quarter, expanding from 23 percent in the previous
period.  Zuckerberg is also bolstering sales of desktop-based
promotions with recent changes to Facebook Exchange, a service
that lets advertisers target users based on their Web-browsing
history, according to Doug Anmuth, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. He raised his 2013 revenue projection to $6.53 billion
from $6.4 billion, while maintaining an overweight rating on the
shares and $35 target price.  In March, the company introduced changes to Facebook
Exchange that allowed ads to be placed in the main desktop News
Feed, where members see postings from friends and brands they
follow. Before, such adds could only be placed along the right-hand side of home pages for desktop users.  Facebook also had benefited from increased spending from
large advertisers such as McDonald’s Corp. and Procter & Gamble
Co., Anmuth said.  “Advertiser quality has improved,” Anmuth wrote in a
research report. “We’re seeing stronger branded presence in the
News Feed than we’ve seen at any point in the past year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  