-- Fannie Mae Shareholders Challenge U.S. Takeover in Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-06-11T23:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/fannie-freddie-shareholder-suit-challenges-u-s-takeover.html
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac 
shareholders sued the U.S., alleging that the 2008 takeover of
the housing lending giants was illegal and cost investors
billions of dollars.  The takeover of the mortgage companies by the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency , “while beneficial to the economic
welfare of the nation, destroyed the value of Fannie Mae’s and
Freddie Mac’s common and preferred stock and trampled the
private ownership rights” of shareholders, according to the
complaint filed yesterday in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in
Washington.  The shareholders’ complaint seeking $41 billion in damages
was filed by the Seattle-based  law firm  Hagens Berman Sobol
Shapiro LLP, a lead counsel in class-action lawsuits including
those against  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  over the unexpected sudden
acceleration of vehicles.  Investors in  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac have taken a
renewed interest in the companies’ future now that they have
started posting record profits as the housing market rebounds.
Fannie Mae had its best year ever in 2012, reporting net income
of $17.2 billion for 2012, outpacing S&P 500 companies such as
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Freddie Mac, the smaller of the two, reported earning $11
billion last year. Both have said they expect to remain
profitable.  Share Increase  Investors are speculating that the companies might repay
their debt to taxpayers and exit government control. In the past
three months, investors have bid up the companies’ common stock
eightfold to a recent peak of more than $5.  Preferred shares have more than tripled, rising to more
than $8. Fannie Mae’s  common shares fell  3.5 percent to $1.91
yesterday after the complaint was filed. They rose 3.7 percent
to $1.98 today.  The  U.S. Treasury Department  determined the terms of the
government’s financial agreements with Fannie Mae and  Freddie
Mac. (FMCC)  Adam Hodge, a Treasury spokesman, declined to comment on
the lawsuit.  The two companies, which package mortgages into securities
on which they guarantee payments of principal and interest, were
seized by regulators as they neared bankruptcy. They drew $187.5
billion in taxpayer aid to stay afloat.  Bullied, Coerced  “The government bullied and coerced the companies’ boards
of directors” into consenting to the takeover at the expense of
property rights, according to the complaint.  “The companies’ willingness to continue providing
liquidity to the mortgage markets on a large scale was crucial
to the recovery of the devastated home market and the broader
economy,” lawyers for the plaintiffs wrote. “The government
took control of the companies to make sure this happened on its
terms, completely ignoring the loss of rights and economic value
it caused to the shareholders.”  Leading up the government takeover,  Fannie Mae ’s and
Freddie Mac’s “financial status did not warrant the imposition
of conservatorships,” the shareholders said in their complaint.
They argue that neither company satisfied any of 12 financial
and other criteria for a takeover outlined in the Housing and
Economic Recovery Act of 2008.  The government forced Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to delist
their shares, terminate shareholder meetings, assume additional
subprime assets and “accept tens of billions of dollars from
the Treasury,” according to the complaint. “In exchange, the
companies were forced to grant the Treasury unprecedented and
usurious cumulative dividends of 10 percent to 12 percent.”  Housing Recovery  Now that the firms are profitable, “it’s reasonable to
expect” there will be more lawsuits like this, said Tim Rood, a
former Fannie Mae executive who is now a managing director at
Collingwood Group LLC, a financial services consulting firm
based in  Washington .  The government “conservatorship is really the most
unprecedented of unprecedented takeover events,” Rood said in a
phone interview.  “It becomes increasingly difficult and indefensible to
reconcile the fact that they have claims on all of the profits
but don’t take any of the liabilities on balance sheet,” Rood
said.  Under the terms of the conservatorship agreement, the
liabilities of the two companies don’t appear on the
government’s balance sheet.  Exiting Conservatorship  There is no provision for Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac to exit
conservatorship under their current agreement with the Treasury.  Instead, the government takes all of their quarterly
profits, which count as a return on the U.S. investment in the
firms, and not as repayment of their debt.  That arrangement forces “Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to
completely and fully transfer any remaining economic value from
their shareholders to the Treasury, guaranteeing that the
shareholders are left with nothing,” according to the
complaint.  The damages sought in the lawsuit were calculated by
measuring the difference in the value of the companies’
preferred and common shares between Friday, Sept. 5, 2008, and
the following Monday, the first day of trading after the
government takeover.  Those differences totaled more than $25.9 billion for
Fannie Mae and more than $15.6 billion for Freddie Mac,
according to the complaint.  Paulsen, Perry  Hedge funds  including Paulson & Co. and Perry Capital,
which have invested in the preferred shares, have been lobbying
Congress to consider allowing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to
become independent again. Republican and Democratic lawmakers
and President  Barack Obama  have called for both companies to be
liquidated.  “It’s probably dawning on some of these investors that the
political branches of government aren’t going to provide them
with any relief,” said Jeb Mason, a partner at The Cypress
Group, an investment consulting and research firm based in
Washington. “The courts are sort of left as the one potential
avenue for success.”  Plaintiffs in the case include  Washington Federal (WAFD) , a
Seattle bank, the city of Austin,  Texas , Police Retirement
System and Michael McCredy Baker, who is identified as an
individual shareholder.  Sampson Jordan, the chief executive officer for Austin’s
$552 million Police Retirement System, didn’t immediately return
a call yesterday seeking a comment on the complaint.  The case is is Washington Federal v. U.S., 13-cv-00385,
U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  