-- FCC Sells Proactiva Stake to Veolia for 150 Million Euros
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-06-10T12:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/fcc-sells-proactiva-stake-to-veolia-for-150-million-euros.html
Fomento de Construcciones &
Contratas SA , a Spanish infrastructure company, agreed to sell
its stake in the water and waste-management company Proactiva
Medio Ambiente to  Veolia Environnement SA. (VIE)   Barcelona-based FCC is selling its 50 percent stake in
Proactiva, which operates in eight Latin American markets
including Brazil and  Colombia , to the French water company for
150 million euros ($198 million), resulting in a capital gain of
81 million euros, it said today in a statement.  “The sale of 50 percent in Proactiva is the first
important step to reach the divestment goals to which we
committed in our strategic plan,” FCC Chief Executive Officer
Juan Bejar said in the statement.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,  Spain ’s second-biggest
bank,  said  the deal was the second-largest M&A transaction in
waste and water in Latin America in 10 years. It was also
Veolia’s largest acquisition in  Latin America  since 2000,
according to BBVA.  The purchase marks a change from Veolia’s recent strategy
of selling assets to lower debt and boost profitability. Chief
Executive Officer Antoine Frerot has pledged to focus on “high
growth” economies such as  China  and the  Middle East .  The purchase will have a “neutral impact” on Veolia’s
2014 leverage ratio objective and should add to net income from
2014 not counting the price paid for the acquisition, according
to the French utility. Proactiva had 2012 adjusted operating
cash flow of 95 million euros and net financial debt of 118
million euros.  ‘Non-Strategic’ Sales  FCC, which hired BBVA to manage the transaction, said in
March it planned 2.2 billion euros of non-strategic asset sales.
In May, company officials said they expected to make some asset
disposals before the summer.  FCC, which reported a first-quarter net loss of 140.2
million euros compared with profit of 16.6 million euros a year
ago, rose as much as 4.1 percent in Madrid trading while Veolia
declined as much as 1 percent in Paris.  Veolia already held half of Proactiva, which reported sales
of about 540 million euros last year, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  