-- Fed’s Bullard Says Low Inflation May Warrant Longer QE
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-06-10T20:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/fed-s-bullard-says-low-inflation-may-warrant-longer-qe.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard , who has voted this year in favor of
maintaining stimulus, said inflation below the central bank’s 2
percent target may warrant prolonging the “aggressive” use of
bond buying to spur growth and bring down unemployment.  While “labor market conditions have improved since last
summer,” Bullard said today in remarks during a panel
discussion in Montreal, “surprisingly low inflation readings
may mean the Committee can maintain its aggressive program over
a longer time frame.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which meets next week,
is discussing when to slow $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases, with San Francisco Fed President  John Williams  saying
last week a “modest adjustment downward” in the buying is
possible as “early as this summer.” Atlanta Fed President
 Dennis Lockhart  said “very mixed” economic data makes him
“more cautious” about a near-term reduction in purchases.  The FOMC said May 1 it will continue buying bonds “until
the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially.”
Payrolls rose 175,000 in the U.S. last month, while the
 unemployment rate  climbed to 7.6 percent, Labor Department
figures showed June 7.  “Bullard is a hawkish-leaning centrist on the FOMC and his
comments should be taken quite seriously,” said  Ward McCarthy ,
chief financial economist at Jefferies Group LLC in  New York  and
a former Richmond Fed economist. “This is an inopportune time
to be talking about curtailing QE,” or quantitative easing, he
said. “They are missing on the inflation mandate.”  Incremental Adjustments  Bullard was the first FOMC participant to push for
“meeting to meeting” incremental adjustments to its bond
buying in response to economic indicators.  Slow but steady growth, improving labor markets and limited
excesses in financial markets “suggests that the FOMC can
continue to pursue its aggressive asset purchase program,” he
said.  “Inflation in the U.S. has surprised to the downside,”
Bullard said in his speech to the International Economic Forum
of the Americas  conference .  Inflation “has been going down and it hasn’t moved back at
all,” Bullard said in response to an audience question. “I am
still waiting for that to happen and I am getting a little bit
nervous.”  Price gains as measured by the personal consumption
expenditures price index rose 0.7 percent for the year ending
April, below the central bank’s 2 percent goal.  Slowing Inflation  Since 2010, Bullard has expressed concern that slowing
inflation could lead to deflation, or a broad decline in prices,
and Japanese-style economic stagnation. He has also said the
FOMC needs to safeguard the credibility of its inflation target,
defending the goal when price gains are either too high or too
low.  The St. Louis Fed chief said he wants “to see some
reassurance” from inflation data “before we start to taper our
asset purchase program.”  U.S. stocks were little changed, with the  Standard & Poor’s 
500 Index at 1,642.81 at the close of trading in New York. The
yield on the 10-year Treasury note increased 0.04 percent to
2.21 percent.  Bullard told reporters after his speech that he was
encouraged by a shrinking of the U.S. deficit.  ‘Sustained Growth’  “The deficit and debt situation is improving in the U.S.
and that’s a reflection of sustained growth,” Bullard said.
“It’s another indication that the U.S. outlook is improving,
but like I say, you would expect inflation would be running
higher if that was the case and that’s not happening, so it’s a
little bit of a head-scratcher.”  Standard & Poor’s raised the U.S.’s AA+ credit rating
outlook to stable from negative, based on receding fiscal risks,
less than two years after stripping the world’s largest economy
of its top ranking. Bullard said he hadn’t yet seen today’s S&P
report.  “I’d be surprised if the Congress has done enough really
to get us back onto a sustainable path,” he said.  The possibility of excesses such as asset price surges
“bears careful watching,” Bullard said in his prepared
remarks.  “An important concern for the FOMC is that low  interest
rates  can be associated with excessive risk-taking in financial
markets,” Bullard said.  “So far, it appears that this type of
activity has been limited since the end of the recession in
2009.”  Record Stimulus  Kansas City Fed President Esther George, who has dissented
this year from record stimulus, has warned of asset price
bubbles. In a speech last week she cautioned of overheating in
the use of margin accounts at broker-dealers and leveraged
loans, or packages of higher-risk commercial loans.  Bullard, 52, who calls himself the “ North Pole  of
inflation hawks,” has been viewed as a bellwether for investors
because his views have sometimes foreshadowed policy changes. He
published a paper in 2010 entitled “Seven Faces of the Peril,”
which called on the central bank to avert deflation by
purchasing Treasury notes.  At the time, he also called for the Fed to engage in open-ended bond purchases, without a set goal or ending date. That
approach has been adopted in the latest round of purchases.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of Illinois,
 Indiana ,  Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in  Montreal  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
NI BNK
NI CO
NI INF
NI FRX
NI REL
NI MOR
NI DRV
NI TRE
NI FED
NI CEN
NI DRV
NI GOV 