-- Five Below Soars on Teen Shopping Craze Post Zany Brainy
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-06-10T13:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/five-below-soars-on-teen-shopping-craze-post-zany-brainy.html
Five Below Inc. (FIVE)  founders David Schlessinger and Thomas Vellios have so far learned to avoid the
pitfalls that undid their last business -- the bankrupt Zany
Brainy toy company. Still, the real test lies ahead.  The duo are expanding the chain that sells teens discounted
items from tie-dyed T-shirts to bedazzled iPhone cases at a
breakneck pace, with a 72 percent increase in its store base
helping more than double sales in the past two years.  Zany Brainy, which sold children’s toys and games, took off
on a similar trajectory before flaming out when an acquisition
and losses on an Internet investment hurt it just as the U.S.
was heading into the 2001 recession. Now, Five Below’s shares
have more than doubled since their July initial offering on
prospects that the retailer’s growth is just beginning, while
analysts say its rich price-to-earnings multiple -- the highest
among its peers -- leaves the company little room for error.  “They can’t have supply chain issues, and they can’t have
inventory issues at this kind of multiple -- and all those
things are really worrisome when you’re growing this fast
because you outgrow your infrastructure,” Jan Kniffen, chief
executive officer of J. Rogers Kniffen Worldwide Enterprises, a
retail consulting and equity-research firm in New York, said in
a telephone interview. “It’s a $2 billion company that trades
like Amazon.”  Shares of Philadelphia-based Five Below closed June 7 at
about 49 times its estimated earnings for the next 12 months,
higher than any other retailer in the Russell 2000 Index other
than  Office Depot Inc. (ODP) , which is in the midst of a merger,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  closed
at about 70 times estimated earnings on that basis.  Five Below rose 0.9 percent to $36.56 at 9:35 a.m. in New
York today.  Zany Brainy  Schlessinger, Five Below’s chairman, founded Zany Brainy in
1991, and Vellios joined the company in 1995 before becoming CEO
in September 2000. The company went public in June 1999,
purchased rival Noodle Kidoodle a little more than a year later
and lost about $9 million on an Internet retail investment.  In May 2001, Zany Brainy filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy,
listing $131 million of debt and $201 million of assets. It was
acquired in September of that year by Right Start Inc., which
bought FAO Schwarz and changed its name to FAO Inc. Zany Brainy
was shuttered in 2003, when FAO filed for bankruptcy.  Vellios in a May 2001 press release blamed the company’s
bankruptcy on its “rapid growth,” which included opening 27
new Zany Brainy stores and acquiring the 60 Noodle Kidoodle
shops. He also cited declining sales in the absence of a “hot”
product in a slow retail environment.  Five Below  After Zany Brainy’s collapse, Schlessinger and Vellios
founded Cheap Holdings Inc. in January 2002 and later changed
the name to Five Below, a nod to its prices of $5 or less, with
its first store in Philadelphia.  The company, led by Schlessinger as chairman and Vellios
again as CEO, expanded throughout the eastern U.S. and is now
branching into the Midwest and the South. Five Below added 52
stores last year to bring its total to 244 as of Feb. 2, up from
142 two years ago, and plans to open 60 more this year. The
store base will expand at least 20 percent annually for the next
five years, Vellios said on a conference call in September. Five
Below said in a March filing that it could grow to more than
2,000 stores “over time.”  The executives declined to comment through Denise DiMeglio,
a Five Below spokeswoman who works for Gregory FCA
Communications.  Generating Attention  Five Below stores are usually small, located in strip malls
and opened in clusters in the same region at once, helping
generate attention. The locations each stock more than 4,000
items, according to company filings.  Five Below has no direct competition for its concept,
Kniffen said. While  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Target Corp. (TGT) , major
dollar retailers and Claire’s Stores Inc. all carry some of the
same products, Five Below is the only one with its particular
assortment of items in one place.  The strategy so far is working. Sales rose to $418.8
million in the year ended Feb. 2, more than double the $197.2
million from two years earlier. Net income last year rose 25
percent from a year earlier to $20 million. Through Friday, the
shares had advanced 13 percent, compared with a 15 percent rise
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The retailer is scheduled
to report first-quarter earnings June 12.  The company’s total  debt  was 73 percent of its $47.3
million in trailing 12-month earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, less than half the 1.8 times
average for consumer discretionary companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Analyst Caution  Analysts, however, are cautious. Of the 14 analysts that
cover Five Below, 36 percent recommend buying it. That gives the
company a consensus  analyst rating  of 3.57, on a scale in which
five is a unanimous buy and one is a unanimous sell. The average
for the  Russell 2000  is 3.76.  Five Below risks competition from major retailers as well
as the potential for an imitator, Matt Nemer, a San Francisco-based analyst with  Wells Fargo & Co ., said in a phone interview.
While Five Below’s rapid expansion may help it deter potential
competitors, slowing its store growth to 15 percent from 20
percent would allow it to focus more on selecting the right
locations and hiring qualified staff, said Nemer, who rates the
shares hold.  Another potential weakness is that Five Below doesn’t carry
consumer staples. That leaves it vulnerable to the rapidly
changing tastes of its teen and preteen customers, said Patrick McKeever, managing director for MKM Partners LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  Popular Merchandise  “They really have to properly identify what’s popular and
what’s going to be popular with teens -- if they make some bad
merchandising decision that could hurt the business,” McKeever
said in a telephone interview. He has the equivalent of a hold
rating on the stock and cites its high valuation as one reason
he doesn’t recommend buying the shares.  Still, those risks aren’t as great as the ones that undid
Zany Brainy, Wells Fargo’s Nemer said. Five Below has a simpler
model to execute than Zany Brainy with small stores, flexible
merchandise and few regionalized products, Nemer said.  “It was a great learning experience,” he said, “but it’s
a very different concept.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  