-- Former Soros Adviser and Abe Critic to Enter Japanese Politics
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-06-10T07:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/former-soros-adviser-and-abe-critic-to-enter-japanese-politics.html
Takeshi Fujimaki, a former adviser
to billionaire investor  George Soros  and critic of Japanese
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic policies, today announced
he will run in next month’s Japan parliamentary election.  Fujimaki, a 63-year-old former banker, said he will
campaign in the July 21 election from the Japan Restoration
Party. He criticized Abe’s policy of pushing aggressive Bank of
Japan monetary easing as a means to end deflation, saying it
will exacerbate the country’s debt problems.  “When you have massive public debt, inflation policy does
not work,” Fujimaki told reporters today in parliament. “There
is a strong possibility of fiscal collapse and hyper-inflation.” He told Bloomberg in an April interview that the
policies were pushing Japan toward default.  The central bank said April 4 it will double monthly debt
purchases to 7.5 trillion yen, which is about 70 percent of
planned bond issuances from the world’s most heavily indebted
government. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda has said he aims to
achieve 2 percent inflation in two years.  Japan  has “jumped off the cliff,” Fujimaki said, adding
that “the most we can do is try to get away with just broken
bones.”  A period of “confusion” following a fiscal crisis will
push the yen lower against the dollar, resulting in a V-shaped
recovery, while providing an opportunity for Japan to change
direction, Fujimaki added. His election pamphlet calls for
smaller government and self-reliance.  In a poll published on May 27, the Nikkei newspaper found 3
percent of respondents planned to vote for the JRP in July, down
from 9 percent a month earlier, compared with 47 percent who
support Abe’s ruling Liberal Democratic Party.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  