-- Formula One in Driver’s Seat on Loan Interest: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2013-06-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/formula-one-in-driver-s-seat-on-loan-interest-corporate-finance.html
Formula One is relying on its auto-racing dominance in  Europe  and a welcoming loan market to slash
borrowing costs even as its chief executive may be charged with
bribery and private-equity owners pull cash from the business.  The racing company is asking lenders to lower rates it
agreed to pay eight months ago in exchange for permission to
sell $1 billion of  junk bonds  that financed a dividend to CVC
Capital Partners Ltd. and other private-equity owners. Chief
Executive  Bernie Ecclestone  has been under investigation by
German prosecutors for a bribery case tied to Bayerische
Landesbank’s sale of a stake in the company to CVC.  Formula One wants to trim the  interest rate  on a $1.33
billion loan to as little as 4.25 percent from 5.75 percent now
as junk-rated companies capitalize on strong demand in the loan
market to extract favorable terms from lenders. London-based
Formula One’s racing is popular with fans in Europe and the
company’s earnings last year rose as the region’s economy
contracted 0.2 percent.  “When you got a strong position like them, and in a sector
you don’t see very often, you’re likely to be able to get very
good pricing in the current environment,” Melvyn Cooke, a
Paris-based analyst with  Standard & Poor’s , said in a telephone
interview. “Formula One has no real direct competitors.”  Corporate Sponsorships  The company sells rights to host and broadcast Formula One
races, and also generates revenue from corporate sponsorships,
from  Switzerland ’s biggest bank  UBS AG  to luxury watchmaker
 Rolex Group  to Dubai-based airline Emirates.  The auto-racing series had $1.6 billion of revenue and $540
million to $550 million of earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization last year, according to S&P’s
Cooke. That compares with $470 million to $480 million of Ebitda
on $1.5 billion of revenue in 2011, he said.  The sales are at record levels, enabling Formula One
shareholders to add debt to its balance sheet to pay themselves
dividends, according to Xander Heijnen, a partner at Munich-based Communications & Network Consulting AG who has advised
carmakers about participating in the racing enterprise.  “They know they will be able to repay the debt because the
sport is so profitable,” Heijnen said in a telephone interview.  Loan Demand  James Olley, a CVC spokesman who works at Brunswick Group
LLP in  London , declined to comment on the company’s financing or
any plans for Ecclestone to step down from his role as CEO.  Investor demand this year for leveraged loans, including
from mutual funds and collateralized loan obligations, has
helped riskier companies extract more favorable borrowing terms.  Leveraged-loan  prices  averaged 97.89 cents on the dollar on
June 7, according to the S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index.
While prices are at a three-month low, the debt is hovering at
about the highest level since July 2007.  Formula One has a total $3.2 billion of debt, including $1
billion of subordinated bonds and $2.2 billion of senior term
loans, according to Cooke. The company also has a $70 million
revolving  credit line , which is undrawn, he said.  S&P lowered Formula One’s credit to B, five levels below
investment grade, in November, citing the increased debt used
for a shareholder distribution.  ‘Quite High’  Leverage will increase to about 7 times Ebitda by the end
of this year from 5.8 times in 2012, according to a May 31 S&P
report. That excludes about $3.5 billion of “shareholder
loans” that are tied to the company’s equity and don’t require
cash interest payments.  “Financial leverage today is quite high,” Cooke said in
the phone interview.  Formula One is seeking to trim interest on about $2 billion
of loans, according to a source with knowledge of the
transaction, who asked not to be identified because the terms
are private.  The company proposed paying a minimum 4.25 percent for its
$1.33 billion term loan and would pay more if the London
interbank offered rate, the lending benchmark for leveraged
loans that is set daily, rose above 1 percent, the person said.
Three-month  Libor (US0003M)  was 0.275 percent on June 7.  Formula One currently pays interest at 5.75 percent for the
debt. The cost would also rise if the lending benchmark
increased to more than 1 percent, the person said. The $1.33
billion term loan, due in 2019, was quoted at 101.3 cents on the
dollar on June 7, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Another Dividend  The company’s shareholders will take another dividend of
$332 million this year using cash on hand, according to Cooke.
Senior lenders agreed last year to the dividend payments, he
said.  CVC and other shareholders were poised to collect $2.2
billion of dividends last year, including the payout from the
bonds, according to an Oct. 19 report from Moody’s Investors
Service.  Formula One also operates in  emerging markets , including
Brazil and  India , where fan following tends to increase in
countries where a driver or team gains success in races,
according to Cooke.  Not all of the teams benefit equally from the sport’s
growth. “Roughly half of the teams are fighting for long-term
survival,” Heijnen said. “If you’re not successful, you tend
to suffer.”  The company has negotiated an eight-year contract with 10
of its  11 teams  that runs through 2020 that states how much each
gets paid for its participation and  success  on the track. The
value of a team’s brand can influence how much it receives under
the contract, which is part of the broader Concorde Agreement,
named after the Parisian square where Formula One rule-maker
 Federation Internationale de l’Automobile  is based.  Ferrari Stars  “ Ferrari  is by far the star team,” said Heijnen. “They
have always received a larger size of the pie.” The Italian
carmaker’s brand is important to the sport because it’s the only
team to have competed in Formula One since it was founded in
1950 and without missing a single season, he said.  The new contract will give driving teams more money to
race, causing operating margins at Formula One to shrink to 27
percent in 2013 from “slightly” more than 30 percent,
according to Cooke.  CVC bought a 63.4 percent stake in Formula One using $2.5
billion of loans, completing the deal in 2006, and has since
sold some of its shares in addition to taking dividends. The
buyout firm has reaped more than $4 billion on its original
investment of $1 billion and expects to make as much as $7
billion, CVC co-founder Donald Mackenzie said in an Oct. 29
interview.  Piling Debt  “It was a very good deal for the shareholders,” said
Heijnen. “It was not a good deal for the sport.”  The owners have piled debt onto a multi-billion dollar
business to collect dividends instead of re-investing that
money, he said, which could include support for traditional
circuits in Europe and smaller teams.  CVC remains Formula One’s largest shareholder with a 35.1
percent stake, according to the annual financial report on F1
called “ Formula Money ,” an industry yearbook founded and co-published by Communications & Network Consulting.  The second biggest equity holder is now  Waddell & Reed
Financial Inc. (WDR)  with a 20.9 percent share, according to the
upcoming edition of Formula Money that is expected to appear
next month.  ‘Regret It’  “The carmakers or the teams should have bought shares in
the sport when they had the chance,” said Heijnen. “They
didn’t, and they will regret it forever.”  The bribery investigation, which saw BayernLB’s Formula One
manager Gerhard Gribkowsky sentenced to eight-and-a-half years
in prison in 2012, could result in the series deciding
Ecclestone should step down permanently or temporarily,
according to a prospectus for an initial public offering that
was suspended last year.  It is alleged that Gribkowsky accepted a bribe from
Ecclestone in connection with the sale of the Bayerische
Landesbank’s stake in Formula One to CVC in 2006, according to
the prospectus. Ecclestone has stated that the payments weren’t
a bribe, according to the IPO document.  Ecclestone said in a May 31 interview that an IPO wouldn’t
go ahead while he faces charges in  Germany . He said that CVC
wasn’t “worried” about him being indicted and that he had the
firm’s approval to remain leading Formula One unless convicted.  The business wouldn’t suffer if he has to leave because it
has long-term broadcasting agreements, according to Ecclestone,
who is 82. “There are enough good people on board who can keep
things going on smoothly,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in  New York  at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  