-- General Motors Wins Dismissal of Suit Brought by Spyker
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   S t e v e   R a p h a e l
-- 2013-06-10T22:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/general-motors-wins-dismissal-of-suit-brought-by-spyker.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  won dismissal of
a lawsuit in which  Spyker NV (SPYKR)  alleged the U.S. automaker sought
to drive the Dutch company’s Saab cars into bankruptcy by
interfering with a transaction that would have saved it.  GM thwarted a transaction with Chinese investors “that
would have permitted Saab to restructure and remain a solvent,
going concern,” Spyker claimed in the lawsuit. Spyker was
seeking $3 billion in compensatory damages and unspecified
punitive damages, according to court filings.  GM sold Saab to Zeewolde, Netherlands-based Spyker in
February 2010. GM lawyers said that the purchase agreement
required Saab to get the U.S. company’s prior consent for
financing and restructuring. The judge agreed with GM’s
interpretation of the contract.  “The language is clear, unambiguous and absolute,” U.S.
District Judge Gershwin A. Drain in  Detroit  said today at a
hearing.  Drain rejected Spyker’s contention that General Motors
disparaged Saab or intended to harm the company. GM’s statements
“were not wrongful or made with malice,” Drain said. “They
were not designed to intentionally inflict harm upon Saab.”  Drain will issue a written order in two weeks, Spyker said
today in a statement. The company “will assess whether it shall
exercise its right to appeal upon review” of the written order,
according to the statement.  Dave Roman, a General Motors spokesman, said the company
was pleased with the decision.  The case is  Saab Automobile  v. General Motors Co., 12-cv-13432, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Michigan 
(Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Raphael in federal court in Detroit
at   sraphael5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 