-- German Defense Chief Under Renewed Fire Over Drone Project
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-06-10T15:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/german-defense-chief-under-renewed-fire-over-euro-hawk-drones.html
German Defense Minister Thomas de Maiziere came under renewed pressure to step down after the
cancellation of a spy-drone project, as lawmakers quizzed him
over a report his ministry withheld information from parliament.  De Maiziere appeared for a second time in front of the
lower house’s defense committee in Berlin today, fielding
questions after  Der Spiegel  magazine said in this week’s edition
that the  Defense Ministry  failed to answer specific queries from
legislators about the risk of cost overruns for the  Euro Hawk .  “He is not prepared to take on the responsibility for the
failure of his ministry,” Social Democratic opposition floor
leader Frank-Walter Steinmeier said in a statement. The SPD will
press for a parliamentary investigative committee, he said.  The drone affair centered on de Maiziere, a confidant of
 Chancellor Angela Merkel , threatens to damage their Christian
Democratic Union party little more three months before national
elections. De Maiziere last week denied bungling the project,
which he scrapped in May, laying the blame on exploding costs.  “If there was deception” the minister will have to
resign,  Peer Steinbrueck , the main opposition SPD chancellery
candidate, told reporters today.  The defense minister cited additional costs of as much as
600 million euros ($793 million) for airspace certification as
one reason for scrapping Euro Hawk.  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) 
disputed the need for extra spending, yet a study by the German
government confirmed the cost overrun, he said.  Global Hawk  De Maiziere said he’ll stay on in his post and reiterated
that the decision to scrap the project was right, even as he
said that he should have made additional inquiries on the drone
affair and will improve the ministry’s procurement methods.  “The timing of the decision was the right one, since an
earlier decision could have made things worse rather than
better,” the minister told reporters after the hearing. He
rejected accusations that he’d “pulled one over” on lawmakers.  Der Spiegel  reported that de Maiziere’s ministry was aware
of rising costs tied to the drone program since 2012, yet didn’t
respond to queries from parliamentarians on the project. The
minister said problems brought to his attention earlier were
always portrayed as “solvable.”  Merkel Backing  Merkel sees “no reason” not to continue backing de
Maiziere, government spokesman Steffen Seibert said today.  The Euro Hawk is a modified version of the Global Hawk
unmanned aircraft used by the U.S. Air Force, with  European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co (EAD)  providing the sensor payload
after teaming up with Northrop in 2000.  A resignation at the Defense Ministry, which oversees
 Germany ’s 4,400 troops in  Afghanistan , would be the third during
Merkel’s current administration.  The first was Franz Josef Jung, who stepped down in
November 2009 a month after Merkel’s second-term coalition took
office in the wake of a German-ordered military strike in
Afghanistan, an incident over which the opposition also accused
the ministry of withholding information.  Jung’s successor, Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, resigned 16
months later, in March 2011, following allegations that he’d
plagiarized parts of his doctoral thesis.  De Maiziere, who has previously been mooted in German media
as a potential successor to Merkel as chancellor, was her chief
of staff between 2005 and 2009 before moving to the  Interior
Ministry  at the start of her second term. In May 2010, he was
dispatched to Brussels to fill in for Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  during a key meeting of the  European debt crisis  after
Schaeuble fell ill.  De Maiziere, a cousin of Lothar de Maiziere, East Germany’s
first and only democratically elected prime minister, served in
several state administrations in the east after reunification in
1990. He and Merkel met around that time, when she served as a
spokeswoman to Lothar de Maiziere.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  