-- German Stocks Rise as DAX Index Rebounds From Weekly Drop
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-06-10T07:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/german-stocks-rise-as-dax-index-rebounds-from-weekly-drop.html
German stocks  advanced after the
biggest weekly drop in seven weeks, as a report showing the
Japanese economy grew more than initially forecast offset worse-than-estimated Chinese export growth data.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  added 1.3 percent after a report that
SoftBank Corp. is considering buying the company’s stake in T-Mobile US Inc. Fresenius Medical Care AG & Co. KGaA increased
1.6 percent as Barclays recommended investors buy the shares.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  gained 0.3 percent to 8,276.82 at 9:50 a.m.
in Frankfurt. German stocks posted their biggest weekly drop
since April 19 last week amid speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will reduce its bond-buying program as the  U.S. economy 
strengthens. The broader HDAX Index added 0.3 percent today.  Japan’s Topix index surged by the most in two years today
as the government said the economy grew more than initially
forecast in the first quarter. Gross domestic product in  Japan 
expanded an annualized 4.1 percent, compared with a preliminary
calculation of 3.5 percent, the Cabinet Office said.  Separately, an index measuring sentiment in the euro-area
rose to minus 11.3 in June from minus 15.6 in May, economists
 predicted  before the Limburg, Germany-based Sentix research
institute publishes the figures today.  China’s  export growth  sank to a 10-month low in May,
according to a June 8 report. Overseas sales rose 1 percent from
a year earlier, the General Administration of Customs said in
Beijing, trailing 35 of 38 analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg
survey and down from April’s 14.7 percent pace. Imports dropped
0.3 percent, leaving a trade surplus of $20.4 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  