-- Italian Bonds Fall as Production Declines; Germany’s Bunds Drop
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-06-10T15:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/german-bonds-are-little-changed-before-euro-area-confidence-data.html
Italian  government bonds  fell after
reports showing industrial production declined in April and the
economy shrank more than initially reported in the first quarter
undermined demand for the nation’s assets.  Italy ’s 10-year  yields  climbed toward the highest level
since April as the data added to concern the country’s recession
is deepening.  Spain ’s bonds slid after El Pais reported that the
nation may be given more time to tap funds for its banking
bailout program. German 10-year bunds dropped, pushing yields to
the highest in more than three months.  “There seems to be some negative reaction in Italy after
the data,” said Gianluca Ziglio, executive director of fixed-income research at Sunrise Brokers LLP in  London . “The data was
actually quite bad and that’s putting some pressure on the
bonds.”  Italy’s  10-year yield  rose 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 4.30 percent at 4:36 p.m. London time after
increasing to 4.39 percent on June 6, the highest since April 5.
The 4.5 percent bond due in May 2023 declined 0.83, or 8.30
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,318) face amount, to 101.985.  Italian industrial production fell 0.3 percent in April,
after dropping 0.9 percent in March, the National Statistics
Institute said in  Rome . Gross domestic product declined 0.6
percent from the previous three months, more than the 0.5
percent first reported on May 15, Istat said.  Spanish Bonds  Euro-area  government securities  declined last week
following European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s
comments that the economy will return to growth, reducing the
need for more stimulus.  Spain’s 10-year yield added five basis points to 4.60
percent after climbing 11 basis points last week. The  extra
yield  investors demand to hold the Spanish bonds instead of
similar-maturity Italian debt narrowed six basis points to 30
basis points  “The data are stabilizing on a very low level,” said
Morten Hassing Povlsen, a senior rates analyst at Nordea Bank AB
in Copenhagen. “All improvements are being taken positively.
Spanish bonds should remain supported. They will attract
investors who think the selloff has been too rapid.”  The ECB and International Monetary Fund are proposing
extending a Dec. 31 deadline for Spain to access funds for its
banking bailout plan to create a safety net in case more capital
is needed, El Pais reported, citing a senior ECB official that
it didn’t name. Spain has so far taken 41.3 billion euros from
the 100 billion euro facility and has ruled out taking more, the
Spanish newspaper reported.  German Bets  German bunds fell, with the 10-year yield rising four basis
points to 1.59 percent, the  highest  since Feb. 25.  Investors should buy the securities and bet yields will
drop to 1.40 percent amid demand for the safest assets, BNP
Paribas SA strategists led by  Patrick Jacq  in Paris wrote in a
research report published today.  “The 10-year bund is very attractive at current levels,”
the strategists wrote.  German securities  handed investors a loss of 0.9 percent
this year through June 7, according to the  Bloomberg Germany
Sovereign Bond Index. (BGER)  Spanish bonds returned 5.9 percent and
while Italian debt climbed 3.5 percent, separate indexes showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  