-- Ghana Deports 39 Chinese After Swoop on Illegal Gold Mining
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-06-10T17:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/ghana-deports-39-chinese-after-swoop-on-illegal-gold-mining.html
Ghana  deported 39 Chinese nationals
for unlawfully mining gold in the continent’s second-biggest
producer of the metal.  As many as 15 others “have their tickets” to be expelled,
Francis Palmdeti, head of public relations at Ghana Immigration
Service said in an interview today. The miners were among 162
Chinese and six Russians arrested between June 1 and June 5 in
Ghana’s Eastern, Central, Ashanti and Western regions, he said.  “Small-scale mining is prohibited to foreigners,”
Palmdeti said. “Wherever we find small-scale mining activity
going on and we happen to find foreigners in that business,
we’ll have them arrested.”  In April, President John Dramani Mahama formed an inter-ministerial team to stop illegal mining operations in the
country, where Johannesburg-based  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ,  Gold
Fields Ltd. (GFI)  and Greenwood Village, Colorado-based  Newmont Mining
Corp. (NEM)  have legal, large-scale mines.  In the past two days, 57 people from West African countries
including Niger, Togo and Nigeria were arrested at Kyebi, in the
Eastern region, Palmdeti said. Three of those detained claimed
to be Ghanaian, he said. The people didn’t have travel documents
or small-scale mining permits and are being screened in
consultation with the embassies of the countries, he said.  Another 202 Chinese volunteered to be repatriated on a
promise by the Asian nation’s embassy to pay for their
transportation, Palmdeti said.  The government’s team will expand into the northern part of
the country, he said.  While Ghana wants investors to enter into mining, “all we
are saying is that they should come through the regulatory
framework,” Isaac Kojo Abraham, a senior public relations
officer at Ghana’s Minerals Commission, said on June 6.  “If they come to do illegal mining, the nation loses the
fees and taxes they would have paid for their activities,” he
said. “The negative environmental and social impact also
becomes very high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  