-- Glapinski Sees Low Probability of Polish Rate Cut in July
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2013-06-10T13:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/glapinski-sees-low-probability-of-polish-rate-cut-in-july.html
There’s a “low probability”
Poland’s central bank will reduce  interest rates  next month as
borrowing costs approach a level that risks triggering outflows
from Polish bonds, policy maker  Adam Glapinski  said.  “Further rate cuts wouldn’t give any extra impetus to the
economy,” Glapinski said in an interview in Warsaw on June 8.
“They’d only increase the risk of portfolio capital outflows,
which always occur when rates are set too low or reach an
unprecedented low, as is the case in Poland.”  The Narodowy Bank Polski in Warsaw lowered its benchmark
rate by a quarter-point to a record 2.75 percent on June 5. The
central bank has reduced borrowing costs by 2 percent since
November as it strives to help stem the  economy’s  worst slowdown
in four years.  Two days after the rate cut, the central bank intervened on
the currency market for the first time since December 2011,
selling euros after the zloty slumped to a one-year low against
the single currency on June 6. The transactions pushed the zloty
to 4.2405 per euro late June 7 in Warsaw, up 1.7 percent, the
currency’s biggest gain since Aug. 3.  “This absolutely isn’t an attempt to fight the trend,”
central bank Governor Marek Belka was quoted as saying by the
PAP news service in a June 7 interview.  The zloty’s current exchange rate is “of marginal
interest” to policy makers with inflation at 0.8 percent in
April, the slowest since 2006, Glapinski said.  ‘Too Low’  The zloty traded at 4.2586 per euro at 3:17 pm in Warsaw, a
0.4 percent decline from Friday. It has lost 2.7 percent in the
past month, the seventh-best performance among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on
the government’s dollar bond maturing in 2023 rose five basis
points to 3.67 percent, the highest since it was sold in
September 2012.  “The inflation rate is too low for us to worry about the
impact of recent zloty weakness on future price growth,” he
said. “Central bank interventions, in keeping with our policy
guidelines, don’t aim to target any zloty level but to prevent
strong fluctuations of the currency.”  The easing cycle may be close to ending as “we are very
near a rate level that the Monetary Policy Council would regard
as appropriate,” Belka told reporters after the June 5 rate
cut. He said rate setters will give more “decisive” guidance
on their future policy direction in July, after receiving new
projections for inflation and economic growth from the central
bank’s research institute.  ‘I Oppose’  For Glapinski, the easing cycle is already concluded and
recent data suggest the July forecasts “won’t change the
picture and won’t have any real significance for our decision.”  “I oppose any further interest-rate cuts,” Glapinski
said. “I took that position in May, because I believed
borrowing costs had already been lowered sufficiently to
stimulate the economy; we don’t need to do more. At the time,
however, I did say publicly that a June rate cut was probable.
Now, without changing my own view, I think there’s a low
probability of a rate cut in July.”  Glapinski’s view “is clear and also suggesting that the
Monetary Policy Council is moving his way,” Gabor Ambrus, an
economist at 4Cast Ltd. in  London , wrote in an e-mail today.  ‘Uncharted Territory’  Glapinski backed three of  Poland ’s five consecutive rate
cuts from November to March, according to voting tallies
published by the central bank. Minutes for the May and June rate
meetings haven’t been published yet. Belka has the tie-breaking
vote on the 10-member Monetary Policy Council and used it to
reduce rates by 50 basis points in March, with Glapinski among
those voting against.  “We’re entering uncharted territory in terms of how the
market and short-term investors react,” with the main rate at
2.75 percent, Glapinski said. “My personal view is that for a
medium-sized, open economy like Poland’s, the optimal interest
rate should be about 3 percent to 3.25 percent, assuming there’s
no risk of inflation exceeding the target.”  Poland’s economy is set to expand this year by 1.5 percent,
the slowest pace since 2002, as the 17-nation euro region
remains stuck in a record-long recession, according to Polish
Finance Ministry forecasts. Poland sells more than half its
exports to the euro area and a quarter to  Germany , its biggest
trading partner.  Germany ‘Key’  “For me, the key is forecasting German economic growth,”
Glapinski said. “If we don’t see a recovery there, then low
rates in Poland won’t help. The situation is making it
increasingly obvious that cheap money isn’t a cure-all for
what’s ailing the economy.”  Instead of “experimenting” with record-low rates, Poland
should be looking for other ways to stimulate the economy,
especially through public investments, Glapinski said.  Anna Zielinska-Glebocka, another member of the rate-setting
council, told the state-run PAP news service that policy makers
may be inclined to end the easing cycle in July.  “It’s hard to say whether the cut may be 25 points or 50
points,” PAP cited Zielinska-Glebocka as saying today. “It’ll
probably be 25 points, but we’ll see. A lot depends on the
inflation projection.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  