-- Glapinski Says Polish Monetary Easing Cycle Has Been Completed
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 2013-06-10T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/glapinski-says-polish-monetary-easing-cycle-has-been-completed.html
Polish monetary easing has been
completed after the benchmark interest rate was cut last week to
record low of 2.75 percent, a level that “opened uncharted
territory in terms of how the market and short-term investors
react,” central banker  Adam Glapinski  said in an interview in
Warsaw on June 8.  The following are selected comments from the interview.  On risks related to historically low nominal interest rates:  “Low interest rates are justified by the current slowdown
combined with low inflation. And we do have low interest rates.
They’re low enough to stimulate the economy right now, if it’s
susceptible to stimulus. Further rate cuts wouldn’t give any
extra impetus to the economy. They’d only increase the risk of
portfolio capital outflows, which always occur when rates are
too low or have reached an unprecedented low, as is the case in
Poland.  ‘‘With our most recent decision to cut the main rate to
2.75 percent, we’ve begun testing precisely this instance of
record-low nominal rates. This means we’re entering uncharted
territory in terms of how the market and short-term investors
react. My personal view is that for a medium-sized, open economy
like Poland’s, the optimal  interest rate  should be about 3
percent to 3.25 percent, assuming there’s no risk of inflation
exceeding the target over the medium-term monetary-policy
horizon. That’s why I favored concluding the easing cycle at
that level, which is already a record low.  ‘‘I oppose any further interest-rate cuts. I took that
position in May because I believed borrowing costs had already
been lowered sufficiently to stimulate the economy; we don’t
need to do more. At the time, however, I did say publicly that a
June rate cut was probable. Now, without changing my own view, I
think there’s a low probability of a rate cut in July.”  On whether Poland’s monetary easing cycle has ended:  “My view is that the monetary easing cycle in  Poland  has
been completed. The monthly data and expert forecasts made
available to us each month suggest that the July CPI and GDP
projections won’t change the picture and won’t have any real
significance for our rate decision.  On the zloty’s role in policy makers’ decision:  ‘‘The zloty level is also of marginal interest to the
Council. Inflation is too low for us to worry about the impact
of recent zloty weakness on future CPI. Central bank
interventions, in keeping with our policy guidelines, don’t aim
to target any zloty level but to prevent strong fluctuations of
the currency.”  On economic growth:  “For me, the key is forecasting German economic growth. If
we don’t see a recovery there, then low rates in Poland won’t
help.  ‘‘The situation is making it increasingly obvious that
cheap money isn’t a cure-all for what’s ailing the economy and
can’t be treated as the single remedy. This is something I’ve
stressed repeatedly while advocating a cautious monetary policy.
Our outlook depends on a German recovery; without that, the
Polish economy won’t rebound, no matter how low interest rates
are. Rather than experimenting with rates and increasing the
associated risks, we need to find other ways to stimulate the
economy, especially through public-sector investments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
&cls;Dorota Bartyzel&cle; in Warsaw at 
&cls; dbartyzel@bloomberg.net &cle;
David McQuaid in Warsaw at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  