-- Gonorrhea Drug Resistance Recedes With New U.K. Approach
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-06-10T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/gonorrhea-drug-resistance-recedes-with-new-u-k-approach.html
Drug-resistant gonorrhea receded in
the U.K. as doctors switched to a new combination of antibiotics
to clear the sexually transmitted bacterium, a study found.  Analysis of more than 6,000 samples from clinics in England
and  Wales  over five years showed that resistance to cefixime, a
generic drug and the first-line treatment for gonorrhea since
2004, fell to 10.8 percent in 2011 from 17.1 percent in 2010,
reversing a four-year surge, researchers from Public Health
England  wrote  in The Lancet journal today.  The findings suggest that a 2010 change in U.K. treatment
guidelines for gonorrhea may be working, the researchers wrote.
The guidelines recommended doctors switch from cefixime, an oral
treatment, to an injected antibiotic called ceftriaxone, in
combination with another generic drug called azithromycin.
Increasing resistance to cefixime is “a major public health
challenge,” the World Health Organization said a year ago.  “Despite this apparent success in stopping the drift to
resistance, this proactive approach to optimum stewardship of
first-line treatment must be maintained,” wrote the researchers
led by Cathy Ison, the director of the laboratory that monitors
the disease.  About  106 million people  globally are infected with
gonorrhea each year, according to the Geneva-based WHO. Cases
jumped by  21 percent  in the U.K. last year, and by 37 percent
among gay and bisexual men, according to Public Health England.  Sexual Contact  The disease is caused by bacteria transmitted by sexual
contact and can result in a burning sensation when urinating in
both men and women. Left untreated it can cause complications
including infertility and a life-threatening infection of the
blood and joints.  The bug has developed resistance to all drugs previously
used as first-line treatment, and no obvious therapies are
available should cefixime and ceftriaxone become useless, the
researchers wrote.  Cempra Inc. (CEMP) , a Chapel Hill, North Carolina-based drugmaker,
is testing an experimental antibiotic called solithromycin in
the  second of three stages  of trials normally needed for
regulatory approval.  The study was funded by England’s Department of Health and
Public Health England, the nation’s disease-tracking agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  