-- Google Seeks Ruling Street View Didn’t Break Wiretap Laws
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-06-10T21:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/google-seeks-ruling-street-view-didn-t-break-wiretap-laws.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , while fighting a U.S.
demand for private user information in a national security
probe, urged an appeals court to find that its Street View
program didn’t violate federal wiretap law by uploading personal
data from home Wi-Fi networks.  The company, operator of the world’s most popular search
engine, is seeking reversal of a judge’s 2011 ruling that its
data collection, which included e-mails, user names, passwords
and other private data, broke the federal Wiretap Act. The
ruling came in a class-action, or group, lawsuit filed on behalf
of residents in nine U.S. states whose homes were depicted on
Google Street View, which allows users see photographs of
roadsides.  “Under any plausible interpretation of the Wiretap Act,”
the uploading “is not a Wiretap Act violation,”  Michael Rubin ,
Google’s attorney, told a three-judge U.S. Court of Appeals
panel today in  San Francisco .  Google said in May 2010 that it had mistakenly gathered
information from open wireless networks while it was capturing
images of roadways and houses for Street View and that it would
stop using Wi-Fi information for the service. Computer users
filed lawsuits alleging that their privacy was invaded and
government agencies in the U.S. and other countries including
France and  Germany  opened investigations into the company’s
data-gathering practices.  Under the Wiretap Act it’s not illegal to intercept radio
communications or any “form of electronic communication readily
accessible to the general public,” which includes
communications over unencrypted Wi-Fi networks, Rubin said.  The Wiretap Act provides for $100 in damages for
each day of violation.  Ham Radio  Attorney Elizabeth Cabraser, representing consumers, said
Congress intended for the law, which doesn’t define radio
communications and was created before Wi-Fi came into use, to
exempt from prosecution people such as ham radio enthusiasts or
citizens’ band radio users communicating over long distances.  Home Wi-Fi network communications, which are broadcast over
very short distances for privacy, were meant to be protected
from interception under the law, and Google’s argument that they
are exempted is “an attempt to create a loophole to serve its
own purposes,” Cabraser argued today.  “Congress somehow failed to foresee the convoluted and
strained interpretation that Google wants to place on its law,”
Cabreser told the appeals court.  The panel didn’t indicate when it will rule.  Google agreed in March to pay $7 million to settle a
multistate probe over Street View. The settlement with 38 states
and the  District of Columbia  requires  Mountain View , California-based Google to educate employees about the privacy or
confidentiality of user data and sponsor a nationwide public-service campaign to teach customers about securing wireless
networks and protecting their personal information.  Google Vehicles  Google also pledged to continue to secure and eventually
destroy data collected and stored by its Street View vehicles in
the U.S. from 2008 to March 2010. The antenna-equipped vehicles
had collected network identification information along with data
being transmitted over unsecured wireless networks as they were
driving by.  In a separate matter, Google filed a petition March 29
challenging a demand for records under a U.S. law authorizing
the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation to issue National Security
Letters. The letters require wire and electronic communication
service providers to turn over subscriber information and other
records that the agency certifies are relevant to an
investigation of international terrorism or clandestine
intelligence activities.  U.S. District Judge Susan Illston in San Francisco, who
ruled March 14 in a different case that provisions of the law
are unconstitutional, said in a May 20 order that Google must
comply with most of the NSLs.  Last week, in response to disclosures that the U.S.
government tapped into servers of nine companies to spy on
communications, Google said it has never joined any program that
would give any government direct access to its servers.  The case is Joffe v. Google Inc., 11-17483,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  