-- Greek Asset-Sales Plan Dealt Blow as Gazprom Declines Depa Bid
-- B y   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 2013-06-10T16:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/greek-asset-sales-plan-dealt-blow-as-gazprom-declines-depa-bid.html
Greece failed to secure any bids for
the nation’s gas monopoly, marking the latest setback to a
state-asset sales program that underpins 240 billion euros ($317
billion) of foreign aid.  No bids were received for Depa SA, Deputy Energy Minister
Assimakis Papageorgiou told reporters in Athens today. The
government received one bid from a “major country” for grid
operator Desfa SA, which was also up for sale, he said.  The sale of Depa and  Opap SA (OPAP) , the gambling company, were
central to Greek government plans to raise 2.3 billion euros
this year, a target that earlier was revised lower. Progress on
selling state assets has been criticized by the  International
Monetary Fund , one of Greece’s creditors, as “extremely
disappointing.”  Bidders were invited to express interest in either buying
all of Depa and a 66 percent stake in Desfa or just acquiring
Depa, according to an e-mailed statement from the Athens-based
Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund. The fund confirmed
later that  Azerbaijan ’s Socar had submitted the only bid for
Desfa.  Russia’s  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the biggest natural-gas company, was
the most prominent of five possible contenders for Depa and
Greece had pinned hopes on a Gazprom bid to revive interest in
the sales.  Gazprom decided against bidding for Depa because it didn’t
get adequate guarantees on Depa’s continuing financial health,
spokesman  Sergei Kupriyanov  said in statement in Moscow. The
guarantees related to state regulation and Gazprom saw the risk
of Depa’s finances worsening by the time the deal closed, he
said.  Creditor Review  The failure to attract bids for Depa came as
representatives of Greece’s international creditors began a
review of the nation’s progress in Athens. The state asset sales
plan is central to paying down a debt load that threatened to
push Greece out of the euro last year.  The IMF warned in January that the government needed to
match “results with rhetoric.” Asset sales have been
intermittent since international creditors pushed the government
to pledge 50 billion euros rather than 7 billion euros by
selling assets that include everything from island properties to
airplanes.  Opap  The government on May 1 accepted a revised offer from a
group of companies called Emma Delta to buy a 33 percent stake
in Opap. The consortium, controlled by Jiri Smejc and George
Melissanidis, offered 652 million euros, with  Greece  to receive
an additional 60 million euros in a dividend for 2012, after the
fund rejected an earlier offer it deemed too low.  Gazprom, which supplies about a quarter of the European
market with gas, was competing with a joint venture by Greek
companies Mytilineos SA and Motor Oil Hellas SA for Depa, OJSC
Negusneft which has bid for both Depa and Desfa, and Gekterna
SA.  Locked out of bond markets since April 2010, Greece is the
only nation to receive two bailout packages from the euro area
and IMF as public opposition to pension and wage cuts derailed
the pace of promised economic reforms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net . 