-- Heat Beat Spurs by 19 Points to Tie NBA Finals at One Game Each
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-10T04:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/miami-heat-beat-san-antonio-to-even-nba-finals-at-1-game-apiece.html
The Miami Heat pulled away for a
103-84 victory against the San Antonio Spurs that tied the
National Basketball Association Finals at one game apiece even
though  LeBron James  was held to 17 points, his fewest this
postseason.  The defending-champion Heat used a 33-5 scoring run
spanning the third and fourth quarters last night at
AmericanAirlines Arena in Miami to pull away from the Spurs.
 Mario Chalmers  scored a team-high 19 points for Miami, while  Ray Allen  and Mike Miller combined for 22 points off the bench by
hitting 6-of-8 3-pointers.  “I struggled offensively, but I knew those guys would come
through for me and they made some big shots,” James said in a
televised interview.  The NBA’s four-time Most Valuable Player added eight
rebounds, seven assists and three blocks, one of which was a
highlight-reel smothering of an attempted dunk by 6-foot-11
(2.10-meter) Tiago Splitter during the Heat’s decisive run.  Game 3 in the best-of-seven championship series is
scheduled for tomorrow in  San Antonio .  The Heat, after losing Game 1 of the NBA Finals 92-88 at
home, trailed 62-61 with about three minutes remaining in the
third quarter last night. Chalmers then sparked Miami’s surge,
driving to the basket for a three-point play, finding Allen for
a 3-pointer and handing out another assist to James.  “I’m mindful of the opportunity,” Chalmers said. “They
always tell me to be more aggressive and more of a leader.”  James’s Block  While James had his lowest point total in 17 games this
postseason, he collected 11 points and three assists during the
run that opened Miami’s lead to 94-67 with 7:13 remaining. He
also blocked an attempted dunk at the rim by Splitter with just
over eight minutes left.  Chris Bosh  added 12 points and 10 rebounds for the Heat,
while  Dwyane Wade  collected 10 points and six assists.  Danny Green led the Spurs with 17 points, hitting all five
of his 3-point attempts.  Tim Duncan ,  Tony Parker  and Manu Ginobili combined to miss 23 of their 33 shot attempts for San
Antonio, which also had 17 turnovers to Miami’s six.  “No matter how you slice it, 10-for-33 isn’t good,” Spurs
coach Gregg Popovich said at a news conference after his team’s
seven-game winning streak was snapped. “If you don’t shoot the
ball well and you turn it over, it’s a very bad combination. And
it makes it very hard to win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  