-- Ibovespa Futures Fall on Growth Forecast, Interest Rate Outlook
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-06-10T12:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/ibovespa-futures-fall-on-growth-forecast-interest-rate-outlook.html
Ibovespa (IBOV)  futures fell as economists
covering the Brazilian economy cut their projections for growth
and increased their estimates for the benchmark  interest rate .  Lenders Banco do Brasil SA, Banco Bradesco SA, Banco do
Nordeste do Brasil SA, Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Banco
Santander Brasil SA may be active after  Standard & Poor’s 
revised their credit outlook to negative. Marfrig Alimentos SA,
Brazil’s most indebted meatpacker, may move after agreeing to
sell two units to JBS SA.  Ibovespa  futures contracts  expiring in June dropped 0.9
percent to 51,100 at 9:44 a.m. in  Sao Paulo . The real weakened
0.7 percent to 2.1474 per dollar.  Analysts reduced their projections for economic growth year
year to 2.53 percent from 2.77 percent while raising estimates
for the country’s yearend benchmark interest rate to 8.7 percent
from 8.5 percent, according to a weekly survey by the central
bank posted today on its website.  “Investors and economists are pessimistic about Brazil
now, and we don’t see any news or reason for it to be
different,”  Alvaro Bandeira , a partner at Orama Asset
Management, said by phone from Rio de Janeiro. “Companies
should suffer from this scenario of low growth.”  The Ibovespa has slumped 18 percent from this year’s peak
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The MSCI BRIC Index of shares in Brazil, Russia, India and China
has dropped 13 percent over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  