-- Iceland’s Gunnlaugsson Pledges Debt Relief, New Capital Controls
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-06-10T19:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/iceland-s-gunnlaugsson-pledges-debt-relief-new-capital-controls.html
Prime Minister Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson pledged a new “action plan” to cut household debt
burdens that are hampering Iceland’s economy and enact changes
to the island’s  capital controls .  The program “will cover the preparation of general debt
relief, a reduction of the principal of mortgages linked to
inflation,” the 38-year-old premier said in the text of a
speech today to the Reykjavik-based  legislature . The current
plan for removing capital controls “underestimates the scale of
the problem greatly” and a new plan will “make sure that the
winding-up proceedings of failed financial institutions don’t
jeopardize economic stability.”  The new debt relief plan will be unveiled this summer and
include 10 different proposals, he said. Gunnlaugsson’s
Progressive Party and the Independence Party ousted the Social
Democrat-led coalition in April by promising tax cuts and
mortgage relief.  To finance their pledges and ease pressure on the island’s
currency, the government has signaled it will ask for writedowns
on about $3.6 billion in krona-denominated claims held by
creditors in failed lenders  Kaupthing Bank hf ,  Glitnir Bank hf 
and  Landsbanki Islands hf .  Iceland hasn’t shied away from imposing burdens on
investors in the past. Bondholders in the nation’s biggest banks
were forced to accept an $85 billion default, dwarfing Iceland’s
$14 billion gross domestic product, when the government refused
to bail out the financial industry during its 2008 collapse.  ‘Economic Independence’  Following the lenders’ failure, the government imposed
capital controls, which are now estimated to be blocking $8
billion in kronur-denominated assets from being sold. The
restrictions have also prevented the caretakers of Kaupthing and
Glitnir from completing creditor settlements.  “It’s clear that sovereignty grants Icelandic authorities
powerful authorization to protect the economic independence of
the country,” Gunnlaugsson said. “It’s also clear that it’s
mutually beneficial for Icelanders and foreign creditors to
create circumstances that allow the removal of capital
controls.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  