-- Idemitsu Seeks Stake in Canadian Gas Field to Secure Supplies
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-06-10T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/idemitsu-seeks-stake-in-canadian-gas-field-to-secure-supplies.html
Idemitsu Kosan Co., Japan’s third-biggest oil refiner, is seeking a stake in a natural  gas field 
in  Canada  to secure supplies for a proposed export plant in the
country that will ship the fuel back home.  The company wants to hedge against gas price volatility by
holding the upstream interest as it builds its first LNG plant
with partner  AltaGas Ltd. (ALA) , incoming President Takashi Tsukioka,
65, said without giving a budget or identifying a target. The
terminal will be located on the west coast of Canada and ship as
much as 2 million metric tons annually as early as 2017,
according to Tokyo-based Idemitsu.  Japan’s energy companies are rushing to meet fuel demand
following the Fukushima nuclear disaster two years ago. Idemitsu
and AltaGas are among companies planning to build LNG plants on
the west coast of Canada to export to Asian countries as a boom
in output from shale formations has lowered North American gas
prices. Freight costs for west coast projects will be cheaper
than those shipping LNG through the Panama Canal, Tsukioka said.  “Various Asian companies including ones in  Japan  have
shown interest in our project to diversify supply sources,”
Tsukioka said in an interview in Tokyo. “There’s no doubt
logistics costs for the project would be cheap.”  Shipping LNG from Kitimat and Prince Rupert, both on
Canada’s west coast, to Japan takes about 10 days, Keisuke
Tsujimoto, chief of state-affiliated Japan Oil, Gas & Metals
National Corp.’s Vancouver office, wrote in a report last month.
Shipments from Sydney take about 15 days and from the Gulf of
Mexico 20 days, he said, adding longer travel times increase
transport costs.  Record Imports  Japanese power companies imported a record 58.3 million
tons of LNG in the year ended March 31 as all but two of the
nation’s 50 reactors remained shut. Nuclear shutdowns and a
weaker yen will force the nation’s nine power companies to pay
3.8 trillion yen ($38.6 billion) more in combined fuel costs
this fiscal year, a government advisory board estimated in April.  The nation’s average LNG import cost in 2020 may decline 15
percent from current prices should Japan secure about 40 percent
of its annual need through contracts linked to U.S. gas prices,
the  Development Bank  of Japan said in a February  report . Japan
paid an average $16.44 per million British thermal unit for LNG
in March. That was more than four times the price of comparable
U.S. futures at  Henry Hub .  Idemitsu, which is also leading a group of companies from
Kuwait,  Vietnam  and Japan to build a $9 billion refinery in
Vietnam, has made a final  investment decision  for the 200,000
barrels-a-day plant, Idemitsu said in a  statement  earlier this
month. The group signed agreements to receive direct loans of
$2.3 billion from the  Japan Bank for International Cooperation 
and the Export-Import Bank of  Korea  and $2.7 billion from
commercial banks, Idemitsu said.  The company is “considering every financing option” for
its new projects, Tsukioka said, when asked about the
possibility of issuing new shares. Idemitsu, listed on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange since 2006, sold bonds for the first time last
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in  Tokyo  at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  