-- Belichick Won’t Disclose Tebow’s Role on Patriots After Signing
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-06-11T15:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/tim-tebow-to-sign-for-patriots-after-jets-exit-espn-reports.html
Tim Tebow joined the  New England 
Patriots on the practice field and so far has kept a low
profile, with coach  Bill Belichick  declining to say what
position or role Tebow might have with a team that’s made the
 Super Bowl  five times in the past 12 years.  The former Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback’s signing was
announced by the Patriots in an e-mailed statement, the same day
as the start of the team’s mandatory minicamp. Financial details
weren’t disclosed.  “Anything we do is what we feel is in the best interest of
the team,” Belichick said during a news conference where
23 out of 27 questions were about Tebow. “Tim is a talented
player, who’s smart and works hard, so we’ll see how it goes.”  The 25-year-old spawned a phenomenon known as Tebowmania by
leading the  Denver Broncos  to the NFL playoffs during his second
professional season in 2011, even with questions about his
passing skills and reliance on running.  The intense media scrutiny followed Tebow in 2012 to  New
York , where his arrival sparked a quarterback controversy. He
had limited playing time with the Jets last season before being
cut this April after Geno Smith was drafted.  While Tebow remains one of the sport’s most highly
publicized players, Belichick won’t let his arrival be a
distraction for the franchise, former Patriots center Damien Woody said. Belichick is entering his 14th season with the
Patriots and his 187 career coaching wins are the ninth most in
league history.  ‘Patriot Way’  “Coach Belichick is going to squash that from day one,”
Woody said on ESPN, where he works as an NFL analyst. “When I
heard this, it was Tebowmania versus the Patriot Way. And the
Patriot Way is going to win out every time.”  The first 14 questions posed to Belichick at his news
conference were about Tebow. Belichick said he’s focused on
improving the football team, not with the fanfare or celebrity
of an individual player, and wouldn’t address questions about
whether Tebow can play quarterback in the NFL, saying several
times that he’s a talented player who’s smart and works hard.  “I think we’ve already talked enough about him,”
Belichick said after the 23rd question about Tebow was asked
at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough, Massachuetts. “We’ll see how
he does and just go from there.”  With New England’s release of Mike Kafka yesterday, Tebow
may join backup Ryan Mallett behind Tom Brady, a two-time NFL
Most Valuable Player who’s won three Super Bowl titles with the
Patriots. It’s not known when the Patriots might have Tebow meet
with the media. When New England signed former All-Pro receiver
 Randy Moss  in April of 2007, he did one conference call and then
wasn’t made available to the media again until after the opening
week of the regular season.  One Voice  “We’re not going to have to worry about  Tim Tebow  having
press conferences that we saw with the Jets,” Woody said. “We
know who the starting quarterback is and we know who the head
coach is. It’s one voice, one message. Anything you hear from
that Patriots locker room from the players is basically
regurgitated from what coach Belichick said in the meetings.”  Tebow will be reunited in New England with offensive
coordinator and quarterbacks coach  Josh McDaniels , who was head
coach of the Broncos for the first 13 games of 2010 -- Tebow’s
first season in Denver. McDaniels was fired by the Broncos in
December 2010.  Jets coach  Rex Ryan  showed little faith in Tebow, who
attempted eight passes for six completions, 39 yards and no
scores during his only season in New York. He was the No. 2
quarterback to  Mark Sanchez  and was passed over for Greg McElroy
when Sanchez was benched late in the season. After McElroy was
injured, Ryan re-inserted Sanchez in the starting spot for the
team’s final game rather than give Tebow a chance.  Another Chance  “I’m happy for the young man to get another opportunity in
the league,” Ryan said today during a news conference at the
Jets’ training facility. “If they want to replace Brady with
him, that’s fine.”  Tebow had been voted America’s favorite active pro athlete
in an ESPN fan-based poll after rushing for 660 yards in 2011
for Denver, where he ignited a fad known as Tebowing based on
his kneel-and-pray pose after victories.  The Broncos traded Tebow to the Jets in March 2012, one day
after signing four-time NFL MVP Peyton Manning.  Limited Time  The Jets said at the time they planned to use Tebow in
their wildcat offense, a package featuring runs and passes by
the quarterback. Instead, he spent most of the 2012 season on
the sideline holding a clipboard. Even though Tebow saw limited
playing time, controversy remained about the Jets’ quarterback
job, as Sanchez had a 6-9 record as a starter and threw 18
interceptions for the second straight season.  “The reason why it festered was quarterback play,” Woody
said. “When you have that kind of play at the quarterback
position, it leads to the type of atmosphere that was created
with the Jets. The Patriots have  Tom Brady , a Hall of Famer.
This is a totally different animal. You’re not worried about
that type of atmosphere creeping into New England.”  The Patriots are scheduled to host the Jets during the
second week of the regular season on Sept. 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  