-- Relational Gets Timken to Weigh Split as Goldman Advises
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-06-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/timken-hires-goldman-to-mull-breakup-backed-by-relational.html
Ralph Whitworth’s Relational
Investors LLC got ball-bearings maker  Timken Co. (TKR)  to consider
spinning off its steel unit as the company hired  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  to study options after stockholders backed a split.  A board committee from outside the Timken family will
report the results by the end of next quarter, Timken said in a
statement yesterday. Goldman will help assess options that may
include separating the steel business and reviewing corporate
governance and capital allocation strategy, the company said.  “This has already been widely discussed and considered by
the shareholders,” David Batchelder, a Relational co-founder
and principal, said in a telephone interview. “Now we just
expect them to respond to the shareholders’ wishes.”  The move is a victory for Relational and the California
State Teachers’ Retirement System in a campaign they began in
November to spin off the steel unit to boost  shareholder value .
Canton, Ohio-based Timken had sought to keep the business, which
generated about a third of 2012’s $4.99 billion in sales and
traces its roots to World War I.  Timken rose 2.3 percent to $58.75 at 5:58 p.m. in New York
in extended trading. The shares surged  39 percent  through
yesterday’s close since Nov. 27, a day before San Diego-based
Relational and Calstrs announced their stakes and breakup plan.  Strategy Panel  All independent and non-Timken family board members will
serve on the strategy review panel, the company said. The
family, which includes Chairman Ward Timken, who used to run the
steel business, owned about 10 percent of the stock, a March 21
filing showed, and the company pension plan held 6.4 percent.
The Timken Foundation had a 5.3 percent stake as of Dec. 31.  “Separating the company is a significant action with
material long-term implications,” Dan Minnich, a Timken
spokesman, said by phone. “The board has a fiduciary duty to
thoroughly evaluate such an action. The board takes its
responsibility to review the merits of that proposal very
seriously.”  Directors had pledged to respond within 45 days after a
breakup won support of 53 percent of shareholder votes at the
company’s May 7 annual meeting. Relational’s 6.9 percent stake
as of March 31 made it Timken’s largest holder, while Calstrs
owned 0.16 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shareholders sent a “clear message” in support of a
split, Calstrs said yesterday in an e-mail. The vote at the
annual meeting was nonbinding.  Relational’s View  Relational, which takes stakes in companies that it
considers undervalued and then lobbies for changes, said in May
that the shares could rise an additional 20 percent to 25
percent under the spinoff plan.  Timken is projecting its steel revenue to fall as much as
12 percent from a year ago, according to its  2013 outlook , which
was reaffirmed in an investor presentation April 24. That would
indicate two consecutive years of declines the segment.  “It’s a very difficult situation for the company,”  James
Moss , a partner at Pittsburgh-based First River Consulting,
which specializes in steel and manufacturing, said in a phone
interview on June 4. “The integration of these two businesses
is historic and longstanding; therefore, if there’s to be any
changes, it’ll be different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  