-- India Said to Ease Foreigners’ Debt Buying Rules as Rupee Slides
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h
-- 2013-06-10T08:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/india-said-to-ease-foreigners-debt-buying-rules-as-rupee-slides.html
India  plans to further relax rules
for overseas investors buying sovereign debt in a bid to boost
capital inflows as the rupee fell to a record, said two finance
ministry officials with direct knowledge of the matter.  The government may scrap the need for foreign funds to buy
bidding permits while allowing them to purchase directly when
there’s an offering, emulating a mechanism used to sell
corporate bonds, the officials said, asking not to be identified
before a public announcement. At present, foreign investors need
to acquire permits to enable them to buy rupee-denominated
government securities.  Policy makers in India are raising caps and lifting
restrictions on the purchases of local debt by foreigners to
help attract investment and bridge a record  current-account
deficit  that sent the rupee 4.8 percent down this year against
the dollar. Overseas funds can buy as much as $25 billion of
Indian sovereign bonds and $51 billion of corporate debt.  The finance ministry officials said the proposed move to
change the rules was prompted by requests from foreign
investors, who wanted them to be simplified.  In recent months, the government has reduced a levy on
foreign investments in local bonds and opened up the retail and
aviation industries to more investments.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram has traveled to
major financial centers including New York,  London  and  Tokyo 
this year, meeting institutional investors and spearheading
efforts to attract foreign capital. The rupee plunged as much as
1.3 percent to 57.82 a dollar today, a record low.  Reserves  Overseas  investment  in India’s government and corporate
debt has dropped $2.5 billion since touching a record high of
$38.5 billion on March 21. Foreign-exchange  reserves  fell by
$8.7 billion this year to $287.9 billion, heading for a third
year of decline.  Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao last week
said India’s balance of payments is under stress. The shortfall
in the current  account , the broadest measure of trade, was
probably about 5 percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal
year through March 2013, he said last month.  India may sell more than $20 billion of bonds backed by the
government to citizens living overseas to support the currency
and shore up its reserves, Indranil Sen Gupta, an economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, wrote in a research note
yesterday.  Other options include raising the cap on foreign
investments in debt and sale of notes abroad directly by the
government or through an infrastructure lending facility,
according to his note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddhartha Singh in New Delhi at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  