-- Rupee’s Slide to Record Drags Down Bonds, Most Indian Stocks
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s ,   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-06-10T12:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/indian-rupee-slides-to-record-on-deficit-u-s-stimulus-concerns.html
India ’s rupee sank to a record as
investors favored the dollar on speculation U.S. policy makers
will curb asset purchases, triggering concern about inflation in
a nation that imports about 80 percent of its oil.  The rupee’s largest drop in more than 20 months dragged
down the country’s bonds and most stocks on speculation the
central bank will refrain from lowering borrowing costs this
month. There is no need for the government to intervene to
support the currency and the “panic” in the market is
“unwarranted” as the drop is in line with other counterparts,
Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram said in  New Delhi 
today. The Dollar Index rose for a second day and the greenback
has gained against 21 of 24 emerging-market currencies in 2013.  “The rupee depreciation is partly due to the strengthening
dollar overseas and India’s weak domestic fundamentals,” said
Nick Verdi, a strategist at Barclays Plc in  Singapore . “It will
play a part in inflationary expectations and if the inflation
data this week surprises on the upside, the market will get more
nervous about a rate cut this month.”  The rupee slumped 1.8 percent to 58.1375 per dollar in
Mumbai, the sharpest fall since September 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. It touched 58.1625, surpassing the previous
record low of 57.3275 set in June 2012. One-month implied
volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used
to price options, rose 116 basis points, or 1.16 percentage
point, to 10.19 percent.  A report last week showed American employers took on
175,000 workers in May, more than the 163,000 median forecast in
a Bloomberg survey. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in
recent testimony to Congress, said that the Fed “could” scale
back its bond-buying program if the employment outlook shows
“sustainable improvement.”  Bonds Retreat  The monetary authority is buying $85 billion of Treasury
and mortgage bonds each month, and any reduction could reduce
inflows into  emerging markets  and leave the rupee vulnerable to
a record current-account deficit.  India’s bonds fell for a fourth day. The  Reserve Bank of
India , which has cut the repurchase rate by 75 basis points this
year, will keep it at 7.25 percent at its June 17 review,
according to 10 of 18 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Eight see
no change.  “Bonds will remain subdued as the currency’s sharp fall is
likely to pressure inflation and make the central bank focus on
external stability,” said Arvind Chari, a senior  fund manager 
at Quantum Asset Management Co. in Mumbai. “We may see a status
quo on  interest rates  for some time.”  The yield on the 7.16 percent government debt due May 2023
rose four basis points to 7.28 percent, according to the central
bank’s trading system. The yield on the 8.15 percent note due
June 2022 climbed nine basis points to 7.49 percent.  Retail Inflation  Consumer prices probably increased 9.05 percent in May,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists before the data is
published on June 12, holding above 9 percent for the fifteenth
straight month.  Fifteen stocks fell and 14 advanced on the benchmark S&P
BSE  Sensex (SENSEX) , which added less than 0.1 percent to 19,441.07 at
the close. Volume on the 30-stock measure was 29 percent less
than the 30-day average. The 14-member S&P BSE Bankex lost 1.1
percent to the lowest level in almost two months. The broader
S&P BSE 200 Index lost 0.4 percent to a six-week low.  “The chance of a rate cut next week appears dim as a weak
rupee means we are importing inflation,” said D.K. Aggarwal,
chairman of New Delhi-based SMC Investments & Advisors. “The
 Reserve Bank  is in a fix on whether to drive investment or curb
inflation.” The good news on the monsoon is being checkmated by
the weakness in the rupee.’’  ‘Panic Unwarranted’  “I think this is panic in the market, which is unwarranted
because it started with the misinterpretation of what the
Federal Reserve chairman had spoken of in terms of quantitative
easing,” Economic Affairs Secretary Mayaram said in New Delhi.
“They have now more than clarified that this is not imminent,”
he said. “This will settle down in a while.”  Three-month onshore rupee forwards slid 1.5 percent to
58.84 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts dropped 1.1 percent to 58.90.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  