-- Indonesian Stocks Fall to 11-Week Low as Foreign Investors Sell
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-06-10T05:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/indonesian-stocks-fall-to-11-week-low-as-foreign-investors-sell.html
Indonesian stocks  declined, dragging
the benchmark index to an 11-week low, after foreign investors
sold the most equities in almost two years.  The Jakarta Composite Index fell 1.6 percent to 4,789.07 at
the midday trading break, heading for its lowest close since
March 22. The gauge has dropped 8.2 percent from its record high
of 5,214.98 on May 20. The MSCI  Indonesia  Index retreated 1.2
percent, taking its slump since May 20 to 12 percent.  Foreign institutional investors  sold  a net $183.6 million
of Indonesian equities on June 7, the most since Aug. 19, 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investor concern over a
government fuel-price increase is rising after the approval of a
compensation plan by a parliament commission on June 7,
according to Harry Su, head of research at PT Bahana Securities.  “Investors are starting to price in some economic
slowdown” because of higher fuel costs, Su said today by phone.
“Some short-term correction is definitely warranted. Our rise
to the 5,200 level was with disregard to fundamentals.”  The Jakarta Composite Index’s  valuation  climbed on May 20
to 15.9 times 12-month projected earnings, the highest level in
at least five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The gauge
now trades for 14.3 times profit.  Eleven straight days of selling by overseas investors
through June 7 have pared  net purchases  this year to $1.46
billion, the data show. Foreign buying has helped drive the
Jakarta Composite Index up by 11 percent this year amid optimism
economic growth will boost corporate profits.  Compensation Plan  An Indonesian parliament commission that oversees social
welfare affairs approved the government’s proposed fuel
compensation budget, the office of the State Secretary said in a
statement on its website on June 7. President  Susilo Bambang
Yudhoyono  said on April 30 the nation will raise subsidized fuel
price only after the Indonesian budget is revised to account for
compensation programs for the poor.  The fuel-price increase could result in higher inflation
and prompt the central bank to raise  interest rates , Bahana’s Su
said. He expects “interest-rate sensitive” stocks such as
banks and property developers to be hurt the most.  PT Unilever Indonesia, a unit of the world’s second-largest
consumer goods company, fell 4.3 percent. It was the biggest
 drag  on the Jakarta Composite index, followed by PT Bank
Mandiri, which retreated 3.2 percent. Property developer PT Bumi
Serpong Damai dropped 5.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  