-- InterDigital, MGA Entertainment: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-06-10T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/interdigital-mga-entertainment-intellectual-property.html
InterDigital Inc. (IDCC) ’s patent-infringement case against  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  over mobile-phone
technology was revived by a U.S. appeals court that said a trade
agency shouldn’t have dismissed the case to have it instead be
decided in arbitration.  There is “no plausible argument” that the dispute arose
under an earlier patent-licensing agreement, the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington  said in an  opinion 
posted on its website June 7. The court remanded the case for
further proceedings.  The case is InterDigital Communications v. ITC, 12-1628,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington).  TiVo Plunges After Getting Less Than Predicted in Settlement  TiVo Inc. plunged the most in three years after settling a
patent dispute with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit,  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  for $490 million -- less
than analysts had estimated.  TiVo announced the amount June 7, saying it brought the
total from awards and settlements related to the use of TiVo’s
digital-video-recorder technology to about $1.6 billion. As part
of the agreement, Cisco and Google will enter into a patent-licensing deal with TiVo. The  San Jose , California-based company
also approved a $200 million stock-buyback plan.  Analysts had been projecting a larger settlement, and TiVo
had said in an October court filing that it might be entitled to
“billions of dollars” from Motorola Mobility, based on the
number of television set-top boxes it supplied to Time Warner
Cable.  TiVo shares fell 19 percent to $11.10 at the close June 7
in New York, marking the biggest one-day drop since May 2010.
The plunge more than erased TiVo’s 8.3 percent gain the previous
day when news of the settlement first emerged.  The agreement averts a trial and eliminates some final
holdouts in TiVo’s efforts to get DVR makers to license its
technology. TiVo, which created the DVR market only to see
competitors grab more customers, has collected more than $1
billion in patent royalties from  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ,  AT&T Inc. (T) 
and Verizon Communications Inc. TiVo has waged more than nine
years of litigation to get compensation for its inventions.  Cisco, based near TiVo in San Jose, said in a regulatory
filing that it will be paying $294 million of the total and
taking a charge this quarter of 3 cents a share.  Mountain View , California’s Google inherited the case when
it bought Motorola Mobility last year.  Motorola Mobility is “pleased that all parties involved
have reached an agreement to resolve pending litigation,”
William Moss, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail last week.  The cases are Motorola Mobility Inc. v. TiVo Inc., 11-cv-00053; and  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  v. Cisco Systems Inc., 12-cv-00311, both
U.S. District Court, Eastern District in Texas (Marshall).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Australia Appeals Court Allows Local Use of Winnebago Brand Name  A Knott Investments Pty unit will be allowed to continue
using the Winnebago brand name in  Australia  as long as it’s
distinguishable from the U.S. maker of motor homes, an appeals
court ruled.  A three-judge panel of the Federal Court of Australia in
Sydney overturned a lower court ruling June 7 that had barred
Knott from using the name associated with  Winnebago Industries
Inc. (WGO)   Knott, based in Emu Plains, New South Wales, began
manufacturing recreational vehicles and selling them under the
Winnebago name, either in 1978 according to Knott founder Bruce
Binns, or 1982 according to Winnebago. The U.S. company, which
first complained of the use of its name in 1991, sued to stop
Knott from using the name in 2010, after the Australian company
said it had spent 25 years building its business and reputation.  “It would be unjust to ignore these matters and to require
Knott to cease to use its name and logos,” Federal Court
Justice James Allsop wrote in last week’s  ruling .  It should be made clear in advertising and on vehicles that
the Australian model is separate from the U.S. one, Allsop
ruled.  Ian Jackman, Sydney-based lawyer for Forest City, Iowa-based Winnebago, wasn’t immediately available to comment.  Binns founded Knott in 1967 as a landholding company that
acquired properties for recreational vehicle factories in
Australia. The manufacturing company, Freeway Camper Co. failed
and was wound up in 1977, trial judge Lindsay Foster wrote in
July, when ruling in favor of the U.S. company.  Knott applied for, and received, registration of the
Winnebago name as a trademark in Australia in 1997, according to
Foster’s ruling.  “Ours is a family-owned business that has been trading as
Winnebago since we first acquired the business name in Australia
in 1978,” Ben Binns, director of Knott’s Winnebago (Australia)
unit, wrote in an August e-mail announcing the appeal. “We
truly believed we were able to use the Winnebago name in
Australia given the written agreement we had.”  The case is between Knott Investments Pty. and Winnebago
Industries Inc. NSD1417/2012. Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  MGA Entertainment Sued Over Use of Type Font in Broadcast Ads  MGA Entertainment Inc., the  Van Nuys , California-based
maker of the  Bratz ,  Lalaloopsy  and  Moxie Girlz dolls , was sued
for copyright infringement by a Wisconsin-based type house.  Font Diner Inc.  of Eau Clair, Wisconsin, claims MGA is
using some of its software and fonts without authorization in
its broadcast advertising.  According to the complaint filed June 4 in federal court in
 Brooklyn , New York, the type house said that while MGA took a
basic license to use its Country Fair Picnic family of fonts,
that license didn’t cover use in broadcast media. Specifically,
Font Diner claims that Chowderhead, which is one of the Country
Fair Picnic fonts, was used in television ads for its Lalaloopsy
product line.  MGA’s alleged infringement continues, despite the company’s
having been put on notice that its use of Chowderhead in
broadcast ads is unauthorized, the type house claims.  Font Diner said it is harmed by MGA’s actions and has lost
revenue. It asked the court for money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs, and for orders barring further infringement
and for the seizure of all infringing content in MGA’s
possession.  MGA didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  The case is Font Diner Inc. v. MGA Entertainment Inc.,
1:13-cv-03203-BMC, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New
York (Brooklyn).  Baltimore Man Ordered to Forfeit $4 Million in Copyright Case  A Baltimore resident received an 87-month prison sentence
and must forfeit $4 million in a criminal copyright case.  Naveed Sheikh, 32, pleaded guilty to charges of conspiracy
and criminal copyright infringement in November. He had
reproduced and distributed more than 1,000 commercial software
programs without authorization, according to a  statement  from
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation .  The $4 million forfeiture is the value of the infringed
content, the FBI said. He sold them through multiple websites.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  are
among the companies whose products were infringed.  The case is USA v. Sheikh, 1:10-cr-00713-RBD, U.S. District
Court, District of Maryland (Baltimore).  N.Z. Revenue Minister Quits Amid Inquiry Into Leaked Spy Report  New Zealand Revenue Minister Peter Dunne has resigned from
the role after failing to adequately respond to a leak inquiry
related to the nation’s spy agency, Prime Minister John Key
said.  Dunne, who is the sole parliamentary member from the United
Future Party, will remain in parliament and vote with the
government on motions of confidence and other issues, Key told
reporters in Wellington today. Dunne has been a parliamentarian
since 1984.  Key released the findings June 7 covering an inquiry into
how an external review of the Government Communications &
Security Bureau’s spying activities had been leaked to the
media. The review was sparked by revelations that the GCSB had
spied on Kim Dotcom, founder of the cloud-storage service
Megaupload.com that the U.S. shut down on copyright infringement
charges.  Dunne was identified as having frequent contact with the
reporter who obtained the report, including 86 e-mail exchanges,
in the two weeks prior to the leak, according to Key. Dunne
declined to fully disclose the content of his e-mails, Key said.  “He’s told me categorically he didn’t leak the report,”
Key said at a news conference. “I want to believe him but the
problem is unfortunately the inquiry doesn’t rule him out and I
can’t dismiss the possibility that he has.”  Dunne refused to comply with Key’s directive that all
ministers assist the inquiry, and chose the course of
resignation, Key said. Some of his communications with the
reporter were inappropriate in that they discussed the GCSB, he
said.  Key said the National Party-led government doesn’t need
Dunne’s vote to continue to govern.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Australian Football League Sweeps Headquarters for Bugs  The head of the  Australian Football League  acknowledged it
has its headquarters searched for listening devices during
broadcast-rights negotiation periods, the Australian
Broadcasting Corp.  reported .  Andrew Demetriou, the league’s chief executive officer,
told ABC the aim was the avoidance of industrial espionage.  He said the league “absolutely” suspected people had
tried in the past to bug AFL House, the league’s headquarters,
according to ABC.  Demetriou declined to disclose to ABC whether such devices
had ever been found or who the league suspected might try to get
unauthorized access to its confidential information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 