-- Lira Sinks Most in Year as Erdogan Warns Protesters, Bankers
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-06-10T18:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/lira-sinks-most-in-year-as-erdogan-warns-protesters-bankers.html
Turkey ’s lira weakened the most in
more than a year and bank stocks plunged as Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan warned demonstrators and lashed out against
financial speculators for seeking to profit from protests
against his government.  The currency slumped 1.2 percent, the most since May 2012,
to 1.8980 per dollar at 9:25 p.m. in Istanbul. Turkey’s
benchmark  stock index  slid 2.5 percent as  Turkiye Garanti
Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the country’s biggest lender by market value, lost
3.4 percent.  While Erdogan told his supporters this weekend the
government would be ready to meet a representative for the
protesters, he also said that if demonstrators remain in the
streets, “we’ll have to answer them in the language they
understand.” At least three people have died in more than a
week of clashes as protesters accuse Erdogan of increasingly
autocratic behavior since police cracked down on a rally in
Istanbul’s Taksim Square on May 31.  “The message was uncompromising, arguing that the
demonstrators in Taksim and elsewhere were extremists, looters,
and the undemocratic minority, and that he would not bow to
them,” Tim Ash, chief  emerging markets  economist at Standard
Bank Plc in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note today.  The lira depreciated 1.5 percent to 2.5159 a euro as the
relative strength index fell to 25, below the 30 threshold
commonly cited by technical traders as being in “oversold”
territory.  “You who started this struggle against us, you’ll pay a
heavy price for it,” Erdogan said, referring to private banks
and an “interest-rates lobby” he says is trying to undermine
and profit from Turkey’s economy by keeping its interest rates
high. “The interest rates lobby has exploited my people’s sweat
for years, and you won’t be able to exploit it any longer.”  Speculators Warned  Turkey pays the fourth-highest interest rates on its two-year local-currency debt among 21 major emerging markets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Erdogan said yesterday that his government would “squeeze
the throat” of speculators in the stock market. He also said
that there were powers inside and outside Turkey who were
unhappy with the country’s economic success under his Justice
and Development Party or AKP, which won the last election in
2011 with 50 percent of the vote.  He asked his followers to deposit their money in state
banks, while accusing private banks of opposing him.  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISCTR)  AS, Turkey’s biggest bank by assets,
sank 3.6 percent to 5.90 liras.  Moody’s Statement  “We are talking about 50 percent of the population which
has been repressed for 10 years,” said Ipek Ozkardeskaya, a
currency strategist at Swissquote Bank in Geneva, referring to
the proportion that didn’t vote for Erdogan’s Justice and
Development Party. “The political risk in Turkey is becoming
concrete and this may push the lira back to the levels above
1.90.”  The protests are increasingly credit negative as they
heighten Turkey’s susceptibility to balance of payments risks
through reduced tourism and portfolio investment, Moody’s
Investors Service said in its Credit Outlook report today.
Moody’s lifted Turkey to investment grade last month, two weeks
before the anti-government protests began.  Emlak Konut Gayrimenkul Yatirim, a property developer,
plunged 8 percent, the most in two years, after delaying a
public share offering.  Yields on the government’s benchmark two-year lira bonds
retreated five basis points to 6.5 percent in the second day of
declines, paring this month’s increase to 43 basis points. The
drop today is a result of low trading volume, according to Inan Demir, chief economist at Finansbank AS in Istanbul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  