-- How TSA’s Groping Softened Us Up for NSA’s Snooping
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-06-10T18:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/is-nsa-snooping-worse-than-tsa-groping-.html
Here’s a question I asked myself
yesterday: Would I rather have my phone records collected and
readied for possible inspection by the National Security Agency,
or have my genitalia scrutinized by the  Transportation Security
Administration ?  One answer, of course, is, why choose? In today’s America
you can have both.  But my preference is the latter, and not only because the
TSA Genitalia-Inspection Service has been doing its business on
me (and you, too!) for years now and I’ve grown used to it in
the way that Americans too-readily accept indignities foisted on
them by large institutions, including, but not limited to, the
 Internal Revenue Service , the Department of  Homeland Security 
and Facebook.  Here’s my reasoning: It is better, I think, to suffer the
stick-’em-up humiliation of the TSA’s naked body scan machines,
because while they can see through our clothes, at least they
can’t see inside our heads. Not yet, anyway.  By the way, careful readers may recall that I was one of
the original Opt-Outers, those bold travelers who swore never to
subject themselves to full-body scans, and would choose instead
the  manual TSA pat-down . I found the artisanal grope session
more emotionally satisfying (if more physically creepy) because
I knew that it flummoxed the TSA. But the TSA quickly caught on
to the Opt-Outers, and now makes the pat-down so inconvenient
(delaying it, on occasion, for five or 10 precious minutes) that
when I’m running late for a plane, I submit to the porn-scan.
It’s beginning to seem normal to me, unfortunately.  Choosing Convenience  This is the E-ZPass Theory of government intrusion: Most
people, when faced with a choice between privacy and
convenience, will go with convenience. E-ZPass, of course,
provides government agencies with an efficient way of tracking
your movements up and down the  New Jersey Turnpike , but who
cares? The line at the tollbooth is so much shorter.  The corollary to the E-ZPass Theory is the TSA Theory of
Gradual Habituation: Organizations like the TSA have worked to
soften us up, to make us accustomed to the gradual theft of our
right to privacy. I wouldn’t be surprised if clever government
bureaucrats looked at the public’s bovine-like acceptance of its
collective loss of dignity at the nation’s airports and realized
that massive, invasive data collection wouldn’t spark a
revolution.  I don’t think that these latest revelations about the NSA -
- that it is constructing a huge database of Americans’ phone-call data, and that it seems to be trying to build the
capability to watch everything done on Google and Facebook --
will turn the majority of Americans into rabid Rand Paulites. A
 New York Times/CBS poll  taken shortly after the  Boston Marathon
bombings  found that only 20 percent of respondents said the
government had restricted civil liberties too drastically in the
struggle against terrorism; 26 percent said the government
hadn’t gone far enough.  One reason I doubt these latest disclosures will move many
people into the libertarian column is that the source, a former
NSA contractor named Edward Snowden, has washed up in Hong Kong,
where he has been railing against the “omniscient” power of the
U.S. government. Most Americans understand intuitively that a
person who believes that a city-state under the ultimate
authority of the Chinese Communist Party is superior to the U.S.
in its protection of freedom isn’t fit to comment intelligently
on the state of privacy in the post-Sept. 11 world. As Evan Osnos  wrote  on the New Yorker website, “going to  Hong Kong  out
of devotion to free speech is a bit like going to  Tibet  out of a
devotion to  Buddhism .”  Real Threats  A larger reason is that many Americans understand that our
country actually does face a threat from Islamist violence (see,
for instance, the Boston bombings, and dozens of plots, both
successful and unconsummated, before them), and that the
collection and analysis of data by our intelligence agencies
seems somewhat benign when compared to, say, the mass deployment
of assassination drones.  Which brings me to a main concern: the general competence
of said intelligence agencies. The NSA -- which obviously does
an excellent job collecting data that may save lives --
apparently didn’t understand, or care, that a disaffected, self-aggrandizing 29-year-old libertarian had seemingly untrammeled
access to some of its most highly classified programs. How can
the White House assure us that they’re protecting the country
from terrorism if the NSA can’t protect its own secrets?  And if it can’t protect its own secrets, what makes it
competent to protect ours? Let’s assume that the NSA one day
will be, as a matter of course, sweeping up medical records, or
records of all purchases made on Amazon.com, in its hunt for
patterns of I-don’t-know-what. Would you trust the NSA to keep
those records private? Of course not. How could you?  At this point, I’d sooner trust the penknife-seizing,
sweater-vest-wearing warriors of the TSA to protect us from
terrorism.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  jgoldberg50@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 