-- Islamist Rebels in Syria Execute 14-Year-Old For Blasphemy, SOHR
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-06-10T15:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/islamist-rebels-in-syria-execute-14-year-old-for-blasphemy-sohr.html
Islamist rebel militiamen in  Syria 
publicly executed a 14-year-old boy for mentioning the name of
Islam’s  Prophet Muhammad  in a way they deemed blasphemous,
according to the activist  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights .  The Observatory first reported Muhammad Qatta’s death in
the Shaar neighborhood of Aleppo yesterday, and said it released
two videos showing his parents today to authenticate it. In one
video, a woman identified as the boy’s mother, said she
witnessed his death. “His blood flowed in front of me,” she
said, her head covered with a large flowing scarf.  The Syrian National Coalition, the main political
opposition, said in an e-mailed statement that if the report was
true, the killing would be considered “a crime against humanity
and a blatant violation of human rights.”  The woman in the video said Qatta was 14 and sold coffee to
help support the family. A man identified as his father said in
another video that his son was telling someone who wanted to pay
for coffee later that he cannot lend anyone anything, even if
“Muhammad comes back to earth.”  The man in the video said three gunmen overheard Qatta and
asked him why he was saying something blasphemous. He said they
took his son away for 30 minutes and then came back with him. He
was at home praying when he heard the three shots that killed
Qatta, he said. The family has filed a complaint with a sharia
committee, the man said.  Both government and rebel forces are increasingly engaging
in  human-rights  abuses including summary executions, according
to a United Nations report presented in Geneva to the UN Human
Rights Council this month.  Mass executions are publicly carried out in locations such
as Daraa and Aleppo, where the rebels have established judicial
and administrative authority, according to the 29-page report.
The number of extra-judicial killings and kidnappings by the
opposition has risen, and about 86 child soldiers have been
killed during combat, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  