-- Italian Economy Contracts as French Confidence Stalls: Economy
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-06-10T11:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/italy-contracted-more-than-initially-reported-as-exports-fell.html
Italy’s economy shrank more than
initially reported in the first quarter and French industrial
confidence stalled in May, as the euro area struggled to emerge
from a record-long recession.  Italian  gross domestic product  fell 0.6 percent from the
previous three months, the Rome-based National Statistics
Institute, said today, after a May 15 estimate of a 0.5 percent
drop. A French index of  sentiment among factory managers  was
unchanged at 94, while an index of service companies fell to 88
from 89, according to the Bank of France.  “We don’t expect recovery this year in Italy or at the
European level,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  London . “It’s no longer a periphery versus
core issue, now that we see core countries like France
struggling too, while  Germany  goes on its own path.”  The euro-area economy  contracted 0.2 percent  in the first
three months of the year, extending its recession into a sixth
quarter, and is forecast to stagnate in the second quarter
before returning to growth. The slump has increased pressure on
the currency bloc’s leaders and the European Central Bank to
find ways to spur growth.  The gloomy European economic data followed yesterday’s
report that  China ’s industrial production rose a less-than-forecast 9.2 percent in May from a year earlier and factory-gate
prices fell for a 15th month, according to the National Bureau
of Statistics in Beijing. Export gains were at a 10-month low
and imports dropped.  Chinese Growth  The data add pressure on President Xi Jinping and Premier
Li Keqiang to shore up growth less than three months into their
tenure, after first-quarter expansion unexpectedly slowed. While
the figures boost the case for easing monetary policy or
approving more spending, the government’s room is limited by
rising home prices, financial risks and overcapacity.  In  Italy , the euro zone’s third-largest economy, former
Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti’s austerity measures helped
bring the country’s deficit within the European Union’s limit,
while deepening the recession. Exports dropped 1.9 percent in
the first three months, the first quarterly fall since the
second quarter of 2009, today’s report showed. Industrial output
unexpectedly declined in April.  Monti’s successor, Enrico Letta, has pushed for a more
expansive policy and suspended the payment of a property tax due
this month as well as signaling he may cut levies on labor in an
effort to create new jobs.  Tax Increases  “The recession is deeply undercutting potential output and
threatens to erode social cohesion,” Bank of Italy Governor
Ignazio Visco said May 31. Italy’s economy will contract 1.8
percent this year before expanding 0.4 percent in 2014, the
Organization for Economic Development said May 29.  Today’s French industrial confidence report came as
President Francois Hollande’s tax increases weighed on domestic
demand in an economy that has  barely grown  in two years.  Hollande is struggling to balance demands of reviving
growth and trimming the  budget deficit . Yet with more than 20
billion euros ($26 billion) of tax increases now feeding through
to companies and households in  France , domestic demand is
unlikely to fuel any recovery in the months ahead, economists
say.  “The problem is that the tax increases are now starting to
be felt in full,” said Bruno Cavalier, an economist at Oddo &
Cie in Paris. “In the short term I see no improvement in the
overall situation.”  ‘Slight Decline’  French factory order books are judged “insufficiently
full,” while domestic orders are in “slight decline,” the
central bank said. Prices of finished products “continue their
slight decline,” it added.  The figures suggest GDP in Europe’s second-largest economy
will rise 0.1 percent in the second quarter, the Bank of France
said. That’s in line with the economy’s performance since the
first quarter of 2011, which is the last time gross domestic
product expanded by more than 0.2 percent in a quarter.  The International Monetary Fund said last week that it
expects French GDP to shrink 0.2 percent in all of 2013 after
stagnating in 2012. The Washington-based fund said that tax
increases have put France on track to meet its deficit targets,
though further efforts should focus on spending cuts.  Industrial production is starting to recover as France
benefits from improved international demand. Output increased
2.2 percent in April after declining 0.6 percent in March,
national statistics office Insee said today. Production was 0.5
percent below its year-earlier level.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  