-- Italian Industrial Output Unexpectedly Falls for Third Month
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-06-10T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/italian-industrial-output-unexpectedly-falls-for-third-month.html
Italian industrial  output 
unexpectedly declined in April, signaling the recession in
 Europe ’s fourth-biggest economy probably extended into its
eighth quarter.  Production dropped 0.3 percent from March, when it fell a
revised 0.9 percent, national statistics office  Istat  said in
 Rome  today. Economists forecast output to be unchanged,
according to the median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Italy ’s  gross domestic product  will contract 1.8 percent
this year before rising 0.4 percent in 2014, the Paris-based
OECD said on May 29, after revising down its GDP forecast for a
second time in a month. The recession the nation entered in the
fourth quarter of 2011 “is deeply undercutting potential output
and threatens to erode social cohesion,”  Bank of Italy  Governor
Ignazio Visco said on May 31.  Prime Minister Enrico Letta committed to cut labor taxes
and boost youth employment to stem the rise in joblessness and a
slump in domestic demand. Unemployment rose in April to a 36-year high, Istat said in a preliminary report last month.  Shifting Production  Indesit Co. SpA (IND) , the Italian maker of ovens and fridges,
will cut 1,400 employees, or a third of its workforce, as it
reorganizes its Italian production and shifts part of output to
Poland and Turkey, the Fabriano-based company said in a June 4
statement.  Italian industrial production is down 25 percent from its
peak in 2007, before the first of two recessions hit, business
lobby Confindustria said in a report last week.  Still, Italian business confidence rose in May more than
economists expected as executives turned optimistic about the
outlook for production, Istat said on May 29.  In April, output fell an annual 4.6 percent on a workday-adjusted basis, Istat said. The statistics agency originally
reported a 0.8 percent decline in production for March.  -- With assistance from Giovanni Salzano in Rome. Editor:
 Andrew Davis , Eddie Buckle  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  