-- TiVo Bump Shows How Hedge Fund Lawyers Gain Edge in Court
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-06-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/tivo-bump-shows-how-hedge-fund-lawyers-gain-edge-in-court.html
Tom Claps headed to Texas to scope
out developments as  TiVo Inc. (TIVO) ’s trial against Google Inc.’s
Motorola Mobility unit neared, with as much as $1 billion at
stake over rights to digital-video-recorder technology.  Calling the court clerk June 6 for the location of a
hearing, he was told it was off: the case was settled.
Understanding the significance, the former Skadden Arps
litigator, who joined Susquehanna Financial Group two years ago
as a legal analyst, fired off a note that prompted a spike in
TiVo shares and baffled other investors in the absence of news.  It was an example of how some hedge funds and other
sophisticated investors with stakes in companies involved in
patent litigation trade on their legal expertise and may have
access other investors don’t to market-moving developments.  “Rich people can get access to the court with an earlier
trade before the journalists even have time to publish the
results,” said Dan Ravicher, executive director of the Public
Patent Foundation in New York and a frequent trader on
litigation news. “It’s fundamentally unfair. Life’s unfair, but
I’m going to do what’s best for me.”  While patent lawsuits and filings are public information
and trials are open, meaning there’s nothing illegal in what
these investors do, they often take place at courts in far-flung
locations like Texarkana,  Texas , where the TiVo trial was
supposed to begin today.  Beyond Algorithms  Lawyers employed or paid by investors can attend hearings
to glean hints of where a case is going or learn of rulings made
from the bench before they are posted on the court’s public
docket. They can send instant word of verdicts from the
courtroom and interpret arcane matters of patent law most
investors wouldn’t understand.  In some courts, lawyers are the only people allowed to use
mobile devices and laptops.  Investors may spend a few thousand dollars for the lawyers
to look at the case and give opinions on the courts and judges
involved, said David Sunshine, a lawyer with Cozen O’Connor in
New York who advises hedge funds on litigation. Or they may pay
$100,000 or more to have someone monitor each step of the case,
including attending hearings.  “They’re willing to spend money because these cases move
stock prices and the movements of the stock price is worth a lot
of money,” Sunshine said.  It’s a step beyond some investors’ practices of setting up
computer algorithms that react automatically to a court ruling -
- buying shares if an appeals court affirms a decision, for
instance, without looking at the opinion.  Engineer Speak  “We’ve seen an increased sophistication, particularly with
investors in the technology space, with how legal can impact
fundamentals,” said Nick Rodelli, head of  Legal Edge Research 
at the Center for Financial Research and Analysis in Rockville,
 Maryland . “Separately, there are some pure event-driven
companies where, by and large, the market value is determined on
legal outcomes.”  Claps, the Susquehanna analyst, said in an e-mail that he
picks cases to watch based on factors including “the financial
impact of the case on the litigants and the particular industry
in general, and the impact of the case on other pending
litigation.”  Scoggin Capital Management LP, a $1.5 billion New York
based event-driven hedge fund, often makes wagers on or against
companies in patent litigation.  “These patent trials can be very complicated,” Anish Monga, a Scoggin portfolio manager and a former lawyer at
Cravath Swaine & Moore, said in an interview.  “A lot of times the patents are written by engineers using
industry jargon. It’s sometimes hard for a lay person on a jury
to understand the intricacies, and that needs to factor into the
analysis.”  No Cameras  This kind of betting occurs on every type of litigation,
and the options on some companies can reach historic highs
before a trial or other big event.  Patent cases can be particularly rich for stock swings.
TiVo, based in San Jose,  California , soared 62 percent in March
2010 when it won an appellate ruling in its longstanding fight
with Dish Network Corp. and then plunged 42 percent two months
later when the appeals court said it would reconsider.  “I put none of the blame on the people who do it,” said
Ravicher, who’s gone to courts himself to get the information
first. “I put the blame on judges.”  ‘Sweet Spot’  All patent cases are in federal courts, where the
judiciary’s policy making arm, the Judicial Conference, opposes
cameras in civil cases, said Karen Redmond, spokesman for
administrative office of the courts.  A pilot  program  in 14 courts records certain proceedings
with the information available later. None allow live-streaming
of proceedings.  The types of cases that attract attention tend to be in
what Ravicher calls the “sweet spot” between big companies
whose stocks rarely move on litigation news, like Apple Inc. or
Samsung Electronics Co., and tiny companies that would be
vulnerable to wild swings if a hedge fund were to start buying
shares.  “The opportunities are sometimes larger in the smaller
companies because as a percentage of market cap, these matter,”
Scoggin’s Monga said. “If a company with a $300 million market
cap wins $100 million, it means more than if Samsung wins $100
million.”  Investors consider where the case is located -- eastern
Texas is considered a friendly forum for patent owners while
other courts can take years before a trial is held, for instance
-- and whether the case will be decided by a judge or a jury.  First, Right  Verdicts can be difficult to predict and investors bet on
both sides.  VirnetX Holding Corp. (VHC) , a Nevada-based company that
owns patents on virtual-private networks, rose 28 percent after
winning a $368 million verdict against Apple Inc. in 2012. It
dropped 28 percent when a jury found no infringement in a case
against Cisco Systems Inc.  Sometimes when a company wins a trial, the stock falls,
like the 9.6 percent drop in New York-based  Vringo Inc. (VRNG)  shares
when a jury awarded it $30 million against Google Inc. and its
customers. The company was seeking $493 million.  Being first is no guarantee of being right. The day after
the 8.3 percent jump on news that TiVo had settled its legal
battle, the shares plunged 19 percent because investors believed
$490 million payout wasn’t enough.  Ravicher said he trades on events in patent litigation to
fund what he calls his “passion” -- searching out questionable
patents asserted against entire industries and asking the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office to cancel them. He said he may start
a hedge fund to trade on patent litigation.  “I’m still figuring this out, too,” he said. “I just
think I’m less ignorant than the next guy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  