-- Jailed at Home, Tailed Abroad, Iran Writer on Sex, Voting
-- B y   S h a u n   R a n d o l
-- 2013-06-10T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/jailed-at-home-tailed-abroad-iran-writer-on-sex-voting.html
One night after giving a speech in
Ottawa, Iranian writer  Shahrnush Parsipur  was jolted from sleep.  She suddenly remembered that the familiar-looking woman in
the back of the room had been one of her prison guards in  Iran 
“who one day had for no reason showered me with vulgar
insults.” She suspected she was being watched.  Harassment and prison terms drove Parsipur, 67, out of Iran
in 1994. She was first jailed, in 1976, for protesting the
execution of several artists and writers. Her longest prison
stretch lasted almost five years. She has published more than a
dozen books, mostly fiction, in which she touches on taboo
subjects such as sex and prostitution.  All of her books are banned in her homeland, though they
sell well on the black market. Her latest is “Kissing the
Sword: A Prison Memoir” ( Feminist Press ), in which she tells
the Ottawa story above.  She now lives in northern  California . We spoke by phone
ahead of Iran’s presidential elections on June 14.  Randol: How do you see relations between Iran and the U.S.?  Parsipur: Iran’s situation is very delicate. When I was in
prison I read a lot of religious books. One of them taught me
that religion deceives. A religious person hides things.  This type of life affects your political relations. If the
Iranians say they want to attack  Israel , it means that they’ll
never attack Israel. Everything they tell you is not real, it’s
a lie. Reality is hidden.  No Change  Randol: Do you think this presidential election will bring
change?  Parsipur: No, I don’t think so. The people are very angry
and exhausted. Perhaps a candidate can make a change in Iran,
but I am not sure that is possible.  We need an economic revolution. Iran is a rich country; we
have petrol, copper and a lot of other things. But the leaders
can’t use the resources wisely. The majority of the people are
poor and they suffer.  Randol: Any hopes for Iran’s future?  Parsipur: Society is like a phoenix: You burn it and it is
born again. Iran will survive. Iranians will try hard to forget
everything and begin a new life.  Randol: Why are you censored in Iran?  Parsipur: They like women who are sheep. This is the main
reason. They don’t like women like me.  Throughout history they have silenced powerful and
intelligent women. They don’t like women in the highest places
in culture. They like to hide women in homes.  No Money  Randol: But your books get through the censorship. You’re
very popular.  Parsipur: They sell them in the black market. I haven’t any
documents to show, but perhaps this prison memoir has sold
almost one million copies in the black market. I receive no
money from these sales.  Randol: Is it the broken taboos that draw readers?  Parsipur: The prison memoir is interesting to readers
because they are curious about this part of our history -- the
revolution and mass killings and imprisonments.  When I researched the mythology of Middle Eastern countries
and older Iranian literature, I found that women were
categorized as either “a prostitute” or “a good woman.”  A good woman doesn’t have any sexual desire; she is an
object that makes children and is devoted to her husband. I am
tired of this situation because prostitutes are also a part of
society. We must have respect for them and we must change this
situation.  Not Feminist  Randol: Do you consider yourself a feminist?  Parsipur: I am not a feminist. Society is made of men,
women and children, so we cannot separate them.  Randol: In your memoir you discuss finally giving in to
wearing the chador in prison, and you say at a certain point
defending a personal value became not worth the effort. How do
you know when to compromise?  Parsipur: It was the moment I realized that if I didn’t
wear the chador they would kill me. I was sure.  (Shaun Randol writes for Bloomberg Muse. The opinions
expressed are his own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  Muse highlights include Daniel Akst on  books , Lili Rosboch
on  art .  To contact the writer on the story:
Shaun Randol at  srandol1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 