-- Japan World Cup Soccer Berth Gives Abenomics Consumer Boost
-- B y   M a s a h i r o   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-06-10T09:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/japan-s-world-cup-soccer-berth-giving-abenomics-consumer-boost.html
Japanese companies from  NTT DoCoMo
Inc. (9437)  to  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503)  are benefiting as the national soccer
team’s 2014  World Cup  berth draws attention to their promotions
featuring the team and its star players.  From July 9, the country’s largest beverage maker and lead
sponsor of the national team will plaster photos of  Samurai
Blue , as the national team is known, on four of its beer brands.
DoCoMo, Japan’s biggest mobile phone carrier, runs TV
commercials featuring Keisuke Honda, the midfielder who scored
the goal in a June 4 match against  Australia  that made Japan the
first team to qualify for the 2014 tournament in  Brazil .  Samurai Blue sponsors, also including Sony Corp.,  Japan
Airlines Co. (9201) ,  FamilyMart Co. (8028) , Adidas AG, Audi AG and  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411) , are tapping into the team’s success to
stoke consumer sentiment just as efforts by Shinzo Abe’s
government to end more than 15 years of falling prices have
prompted a rally in share prices and a surge in growth.  “With the team now qualified, we can only see a positive
side to this,” Kan Yamamoto, a Kirin spokesman, said by phone.
“Our half-time commercial during the game was very well-taken.
Becoming the talk of the town is a very positive result.”  Dentsu Inc. (4324) , which has exclusive Asian broadcast rights for
the 2014 World Cup in partnership with Switzerland-based Infront
Sports & Media, jumped 2.5 percent in  Tokyo  trading the day
after the qualifying match against Australia, played near Tokyo.
 Asahi Group Holdings Ltd., (2502)  the food and drink maker that is
Kirin’s bigger Japanese beer rival, laced the broadcast of the
game with commercials featuring Honda using its Mintia brand
mints.  Timely Goal  Another DoCoMo commercial featuring the attacking
midfielder “just happened to be on the same day” Japan
clinched the World Cup berth, said Shintaro Oka, a promotion
division representative at the Tokyo-based mobile carrier. “It
does seem like a plus for us.”  Kirin surged 5.6 percent as of the close in Tokyo trading
bringing its gain this year to 61 percent, while DoCoMo has
jumped 21 percent, Asahi has climbed 35 percent and Dentsu has
rallied 53 percent.  Gross domestic product last quarter rose an annualized 4.1
percent, the biggest gain in a year, government data released
today show. Private consumption, which makes up 60 percent of
the economy, contributed 3.6 percentage points to the increase,
as a 27 percent surge in the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
since Dec. 31 has boosted consumer sentiment.  Kirin said its sponsorship of the team is aimed at
supporting soccer’s development in the country. Still, the
association benefits the beermaker more when Samurai Blue win,
said Tokushi Yamasaki, an analyst at Daiwa Securities Co.  More Campaigns  “The more successful the team is, the more campaigns Kirin
can run,” Yamasaki said by phone. “They are dependent on the
team’s success in that more campaigns usually lead to greater
sales.” He rates Kirin “buy.”  For player sponsors including Asahi, a goal in a big game
can boost the effectiveness of promotions, said Takuo Soga, a
spokesman for the Tokyo-based company. “It’s an advantage,
while our goal is to support the players.”  The boost from the Samurai Blue’s win for consumer-products
companies may be too small to have a measurable effect on the
broader economic trend, said  Toshihiro Nagahama , chief economist
at Dai-Ichi Life Insurance Research Institute in Tokyo.  “The benefits for companies that sponsor the team are
there, but not enough to boost the economy,” Nagahama said by
phone.  The Japanese team, ranked 32nd as of this month by cup
organizer FIFA, the Federation Internationale de Football
Association, has never advanced past the round of eight in the
global tournament. The most recent campaign in the 2010 World
Cup held in  South Africa  ended in the round of 16 with a loss to
Paraguay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masahiro Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 mwatanabe47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  