-- JBS Drops as Poultry Purchase Delays Debt Goals: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-06-10T20:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/jbs-buys-marfrig-assets-by-taking-on-5-85-billion-real-debt.html
JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s largest beef
producer, plunged after announcing it will take on $2.7 billion
in debt from  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3)  in exchange for meat-processing plants in Brazil to expand its poultry business.
Marfrig shares surged.  JBS dropped 6.9 percent to close at 6.64 reais in Sao
Paulo, the most since Sept. 4. Marfrig led gains in Brazil’s
benchmark index, jumping 6.2 percent to 7.91 reais. JBS’s bonds
due in 2018 dropped 2.5 cents to $1.04, the biggest slide since
Sept. 26, 2011. Marfrig’s 2020 bonds rose 7 cents to 98.33 cents
on the dollar, the biggest surge since April 19.  JBS Chief Executive Officer Wesley Batista, who said last
week that the company passed on a bid for  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) ,
will assume 5.85 billion reais ($2.74 billion) in debt for
Marfrig’s Seara poultry and pork unit in Brazil and the Zenda
tannery unit in Uruguay, the Sao Paulo-based company said in a
regulatory filing today. The purchase would see JBS, which had
total debt of 21.2 billion reais at the end of last quarter,
overtake Springdale, Arkansas-based  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  as  the top 
poultry producer.  “We will have to delay our deleverage process a bit,” Batista said today at a Sao Paulo press conference with Seara
CEO Sergio Rial, without offering a new timeframe. “The
acquisition should help generate cash, which will help cut
debt.”  JBS will receive a mix of long- and short-term debt, with
65 percent denominated in dollars and the rest in reais. For
Marfrig, the deal means a cut in net debt that jumped sevenfold
in the past five years to about 10 billion reais as of March 31.  Soccer Sponsorship  Batista said there are no plans to refinance the
transferred debt with either bonds or shares. Buying Seara means
JBS will take on Marfrig’s soccer World Cup sponsorship contract
as well as 21 distribution centers.  “Markets are uncertain about how much value Seara can
add,” Felipe Rocha, an analyst at brokerage Omar Camargo, said
in a phone interview from Curitiba,  Brazil . Investors are
concerned by “several factors: JBS’s leverage level, Seara’s
profit margins, the short-term debt, it all adds pressure.”  Acquisitions are part of JBS’s DNA, Batista said May 15 in
an interview in which he added that the company wasn’t in active
talks. Still, the deal comes a week after Batista said in an
interview that JBS didn’t bid for Smithfield because the price
was too high.  Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd.,  China ’s biggest pork
producer, agreed to buy Smithfield, Virginia-based Smithfield
for $4.7 billion in cash, or $34 a share, the companies said May
29. Smithfield is the world’s biggest hog producer.  Three Units  JBS entered the chicken processing business in 2009 with
the acquisition of a controlling stake in Greely, Colorado-based
 Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. (PPC)  The company last year leased Brazil
poultry plants from  France ’s Doux SA and Agroveneto.  Beef accounted for 64 percent of JBS’s  revenue  in the year
ended Dec. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. JBS,
which has gained 19 percent since Jan. 1, generates 22 percent
of its sales from chicken meat, its second-biggest revenue
source, according to the data.  Marfrig’s  purchase  of Seara from Cargill Inc. for $706.2
million in cash and $193.8 million in debt was completed in
January 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Marfrig owns three food-processing units under the Seara
Foods umbrella: Seara Brasil, which supplies chicken nuggets,
sausages and hot dogs to the Brazilian market; Keystone Foods,
supplier of hamburger patties to McDonald’s Corp.; and Moy Park,
in Europe, maker of ready-to-eat chicken meals endorsed by
celebrity chef Jamie Oliver.  Neglected Sector  Seara Brasil’s 32 plants slaughter about 2.6 million
chickens daily, Batista said today.  Marfrig’s net debt equals 4.4 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Marfrig aims to
cut gross debt by as much as 2 billion reais, Seara’s Rial said
May 14.  “Historically food has usually been a neglected sector for
investment, but that’s changing,” said Victor Lean, Singapore-based managing partner of Caudex Asia, a food and agriculture
private equity firm. “We’ve started a cycle where the food
price trend, after decades going down, is actually heading up
due to structural deficiencies in the supply chain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Madelene Pearson at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  