-- Kinross Drops Plan to Develop Ecuadorean Gold Mine
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-06-11T20:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/kinross-cancels-ecuador-gold-mine-to-take-720-million-charge.html
Kinross Gold Corp. (K) ,  Canada ’s third-largest producer by revenue, decided to stop developing the
Fruta del Norte mining project in  Ecuador  after it couldn’t
agree with the government on economic and legal terms.  Kinross will take a charge of about $720 million in the
second quarter, the Toronto-based company said yesterday in a
statement. Kinross informed the government of its decision ahead
of the expiry of the exploration concession on Aug. 1, Chief
Executive Officer J. Paul Rollinson said in a phone interview.  “We’ve been at the negotiating table for two years,”
Rollinson said yesterday. “Sometimes the best deal is the one
you don’t sign, and we believe that’s the case here.”  Kinross bought the Fruta del Norte project in 2008 when it
acquired Aurelian Resources Inc. in a C$614 million ($603
million) all-share deal. Rollinson, who replaced Tye Burt as
Kinross’s CEO in August, is among gold producers seeking to
lower production costs and curb spending in a bid to boost
profits as gold trades near a two-year low.  Discussions with the government were hampered by
authorities’ “hardline” approach on a proposed 70 percent,
revenue-based windfall profits tax that Kinross wasn’t prepared
to agree to, Rollinson said. The government indicated it would
not extend the concession or agree to Kinross seeking a partner
or buyer for the project, the company said.  ‘Accelerate’ Development  Kinross  fell  6.4 percent to C$6.03 at the close in Toronto,
the biggest drop since April 17. The shares have declined 38
percent this year.  “The market largely anticipated that Fruta del Norte was
not really going to go ahead,” Paolo Lostritto, a Toronto-based
analyst at  National Bank of Canada (NA) , said by phone today.
Kinross’s decline today is probably related to the gold price,
which earlier fell to its lowest in more than two weeks, said
Lostritto, who rates the shares the equivalent of a buy.
Investors also are wondering if the Fruta del Norte decision has
implications for Kinross’ possible expansion at the Tasiast mine
in Mauritania, he said.  Ecuador’s Non-Renewable Natural Resources Minister Pedro Merizalde said the government will “accelerate” the
development of Fruta del Norte without Kinross, according to a
statement from the ministry e-mailed yesterday.  “We haven’t ceded in the face of the transnationals’
proposals,” Merizalde said in the statement. “The state
maintains sovereignty over the management of its natural
reserves.”  Ecuador Mines  The country’s industrial mining industry halted operations
in 2008, a year after President  Rafael Correa  took office, when
the government suspended projects and Congress started drafting
new rules giving the state greater control over natural
resources. The regulations took effect 19 months later,
requiring companies to renegotiate contracts before they could
resume mining.  Kinross was the only foreign company holding talks with the
government, after Ecuacorriente SA, a 50-50 venture of  China 
Railway Construction Corp. and Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group
Holdings Co., China’s second-biggest copper producer, signed a
deal with the government.  The decision to walk away from Fruta del Norte was
“difficult but in our view correct,”  Greg Barnes , a Toronto-based analyst at TD Securities Inc., said in a note today.
Management displayed impressive “discipline and decisiveness,”
he said.  Kinross said it expects about $700 million of the charge on
Fruta del Norte will be non-cash and about $20 million
represents accrued severance and closing costs.  The company also said yesterday it extended the maturity
dates of its $1.5 billion revolving credit facility and $1
billion  term loan .  The extensions were “hugely important in giving themselves
the balance sheet flexibility to negotiate this lower gold price
environment,” Lostritto said in the interview.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  are the largest
Canadian gold miners by sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  