-- Kobe Bryant Memorabilia Case Settles With Parent Apology
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-06-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/kobe-bryant-memorabilia-case-settles-with-parent-apology.html
Kobe Bryant  settled two lawsuits
with a New Jersey auction house over plans to sell his
memorabilia, and the parents of the All-Star basketball guard
apologized to him for their actions.  The confidential deal averted a trial between Bryant and
Goldin Auctions LLC that was scheduled for June 17 in federal
court in Camden, New Jersey. Bryant, a Los Angeles Laker, sought
to block Goldin Auctions from selling 100 items consigned by his
mother, Pamela Bryant. Under the accord, Goldin Auctions can
sell six items, and Kobe Bryant got an apology.  “We regret our actions and statements related to the Kobe
Bryant auction memorabilia,” Pamela and Joe Bryant said in a
statement released yesterday by their son’s law firm, Loeb &
Loeb LLP. “We apologize for any misunderstanding and unintended
pain we have caused our son and appreciate the financial support
he has provided over the years.”  The Bryants also apologized to Goldin Auctions “for their
inadvertent involvement in this matter and thank them for their
assistance.”  Bryant, one of the  National Basketball Association ’s all-time greats, contended in court papers that his mother falsely
said he gave her permission to auction the items. The firm had
initially estimated the auction could raise more than $1
million.  Goldin Grateful  “Goldin Auctions thanks Kobe Bryant for his assistance in
resolving this matter,” Ken Goldin, the founder of the auction
house, said in a statement.  Under the accord, Goldin Auctions can sell items including
two jerseys worn by Bryant when he was at Lower Merion High
School in  Pennsylvania ; a diamond-studded ring commemorating the
Lakers championship in 2000 that he gave to his father; a
similar one that he gave to his mother; and Bryant’s ring from
the 2000 NBA All-Star game.  “It is clearly stated in our agreement that we have clear
title and unencumbered rights to sell all of the items and
promote them as we do all of the items in all of our auctions,”
Goldin said in an interview.  The six items cleared for sale will be among 1,100
memorabilia pieces that Goldin Auctions will sell in bidding set
to run June 17 to July 19, Goldin said. The firm also will
auction 14 other Bryant items obtained from different sources,
he said.  Judge’s Order  Bryant sued Goldin Auctions in  California  state court in
Orange County on May 6, four days after the auctioneer sued the
the basketball player in Camden. Goldin Auctions had the
California case transferred to federal court in Santa Ana,
prompting a judge to issue a temporary restraining order.  In court papers filed May 13, Bryant’s parents both
disputed claims by their son and his wife, Vanessa, that he
never gave them the items.  “My son has never demanded the return of any of the items,
nor were they in any way improperly taken from him without his
permission,” according to Pamela Bryant’s affidavit. “Neither
Kobe nor Vanessa has ever requested that we return the items to
them so that they can give it as family heirlooms to their
children.”  Bryant’s father, former NBA player Joe “Jellybean”
Bryant, said that he and his wife lived with his son in Pacific
Palisades, California, from 1996 until he got married. Bryant
then arranged for his parents to move back to Pennsylvania and
shipped the memorabilia, according to Joe Bryant’s affidavit.  Kobe’s Past  In 2005, when Kobe Bryant and his wife visited his parents,
the younger couple “went upstairs to look at the memorabilia,”
according to the affidavit. “Kobe and Vanessa left our house
without taking any of the memorabilia. When my wife came back
downstairs, she told me that Vanessa had said that the items
were from Kobe’s past and they did not want them.”  The elder Bryant sold the house in 2008 and put the items
in storage in  New Jersey . They got a $450,000 advance from
Goldin Auctions and used it to buy a house in  Las Vegas .  In a May 8 filing in federal court in Santa Ana, Bryant
said he “never told my mother that she could have my personal
property, let alone consign it for sale by public auction.”  “Several years ago, while visiting my parents’ home in
Philadelphia, my wife and I specifically requested that my
mother return the property to me so that I may give it to my own
children,” according to Bryant’s declaration. “My mother never
returned those items to me.”  On May 2, Pamela Bryant called him, according to the
filing.  ‘False Statement’  “I confronted her about her false statement that I have
given my memorabilia to her,” Bryant said.  “I said to her, ‘Mom, you know I never told you that you
could have the memorabilia.’ Her response was, ‘Yes, but you
never said you wanted it either.’ Of course, this is untrue
since my wife and I requested that she return my memorabilia
several years earlier.”  The cases are Bryant v. Goldin Auctions, 13-cv-00727, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California ( Santa Ana ); and
Goldin Auctions LLC v. Bryant, 13-cv-02816, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Camden).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 ytha@bloomberg.net  