-- Koruna Slips From 3-Month High as Inflation Slows: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-06-10T14:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/koruna-slips-from-3-month-high-as-inflation-slows-prague-mover.html
The Czech koruna slid from an almost
three-month high as slower-than-estimated inflation fueled
speculation the central bank will act to weaken the currency.  The koruna depreciated as much as 0.7 percent, the most in
two months, before trading 0.6 percent lower at 25.729 per euro
by 4:21 p.m. in  Prague , reversing an earlier 0.4 percent gain to
the strongest level since March 18. The  exchange rate  was 4.6
percent weaker than the level on Sept. 17, a day before the
Czech National Bank first signaled readiness to sell the koruna.  Consumer prices grew at the slowest pace in almost three
years in May, the statistics office in Prague said today. The
CNB, which cut its main  interest rate  to 0.05 percent last year,
is debating whether more stimulus is needed to prevent the risk
of deflation amid the country’s longest recession on record.  “Economic trends are putting more pressure on the CNB to
loosen monetary policy,”  Daniel Hewitt  and Koon Chow, analysts
at Barclays Plc in  London , wrote in a report today after the
Czech inflation data was published. “We are probably at a
juncture where we will see verbal intervention being used again
and, if it fails, maybe actual foreign-exchange intervention.”  Inflation eased to 1.3 percent in May from 1.7 percent a
month earlier, the statistics office said. That’s less than the
1.6 percent median estimate of 17 economists in a Bloomberg
survey, the same as the central bank’s forecast for the month.  The data poses an “anti-inflationary risk” to the central
bank’s forecast, the CNB said in a statement today. The $217
billion Czech economy has contracted for six consecutive
quarters through March.  Verbal Intervention  “Central bankers will probably keep intervening verbally
to remind the markets that the CNB wants to keep the koruna at
weaker levels,” Jiri Skop, a Komercni Banka AS economist in
Prague, wrote in a note today. “Direct foreign-exchange market
interventions can only be expected if deflation risk occurs.”  Czech  government bonds  fell today, lifting the yield on
five-year notes by 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to
a 10-month high of 1.43 percent. That increased the extra yield
investors demand to hold the debt rather than German bunds of
the same maturity to 83 basis points, the  most  in nine months,
generic indexes compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  