-- Nestle’s Nespresso to Face New Mondelez Copycat Capsule
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-06-11T07:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/nestle-s-nespresso-to-face-new-copycat-capsule-from-mondelez.html
Mondelez International Inc., (MDLZ)  the
world’s second-biggest coffee maker, will start selling
Nespresso-compatible capsules across Europe this fall, posing
the sternest competitive challenge yet to the  Nestle SA (NESN)  brand.  Mondelez, based in Deerfield,  Illinois , will sell the
knock-off capsules under its Jacobs and Carte Noire brands in
 Germany ,  France ,  Austria  and  Switzerland  in the second half of
2013, Roland Weening, vice president of strategy, marketing and
innovation, said in an interview in London yesterday.  The move brings a deep-pocketed entrant to the fastest-growing part of the $80 billion global coffee market at a time
when Nespresso’s growth has slowed. Nestle, of Vevey,
Switzerland, has filed patent-infringement lawsuits against some
rivals that introduced capsules compatible with Nespresso
machines, yet to date has not been able to stem the flow of
copycat capsules from producers including  D.E Master Blenders
1753. (DE)  That comes as Nestle has said sales growth this year may
be at the low end of its long-term target.  “We want to take our brands and offer all the routes to
cup,” Weening said. “We have been evaluating this for quite
some time and felt the time was right.”  Bigger Slice  Mondelez wants a bigger slice of the $8 billion single-serve segment, which accounts for 20 percent of the European
coffee market, up from 6 percent in 2006, Weening said. Spun off
from  Kraft Foods (KRFT)  last year, Mondelez has sold its own single-serve beverage machine, Tassimo, since 2005. Weening said the
move into Nespresso-compatible capsules would not “de-prioritize” Tassimo, which has sales approaching $1 billion.  Nestle, the maker of Nescafe and Dolce Gusto, dominates the
European single-serve market with a share of 70 percent,
according to Andreas Von Arx, an analyst at Helvea AG. Nespresso
cultivates an exclusive image for the brand through ads
featuring actor  George Clooney , and boutiques that boast tasting
salons in locations such as Paris’s Champs-Elysees.  That approach has made Nespresso one of Nestle’s fastest-growing and most profitable brands. In 2010, Nespresso accounted
for about 15 percent of Nestle’s growth, Nomura analyst  David Hayes  has estimated. This year, the brand may account for about
a tenth of the 5.12 billion-franc ($5.44 billion) increase in
sales expected by analysts.  Competitors will probably sell about 400 million francs
worth of copycat capsules this year, Jon Cox, an analyst at
Kepler Cheuvreux in Zurich, estimates. “While I think there is
still a lot of potential in Nespresso growth outside of Europe,
within Europe it is pretty fierce,” Cox said.  ‘Competitive Environment’  Nestle fell 0.3 percent to 62.70 francs at 9:07 a.m. in
Zurich trading, trimming the stock’s 12-month gain to 14
percent. Mondelez has advanced 19 percent during that period.  Nestle stopped reporting sales details for Nespresso midway
through last year due to “the competitive environment,” Chief
Financial Officer Wan Ling Martello said at the time. That
climate has gotten much more crowded: in 2010 Sara Lee Corp. and
Ethical Coffee Co. both introduced knock-off capsules. Last
year, Sara Lee spun off its coffee business into D.E Master
Blenders, which agreed to be bought by Joh. A. Benckiser in
April. The popularity of knock-off coffee pods contributed to a
slower start to the year for Nespresso, Nestle has said.  “Pressure has been mounting from compatible capsules,”
Von Arx said in a November report. “With key patents either
expired or being challenged in courts, currently key Nespresso
markets look open for compatible capsule producers.”  Losing Share  Von Arx estimates that Nespresso has lost between 10
percent and 20 percent market share in some countries to the
knockoffs. In its most recent fiscal year, sales of D.E Master
Blenders’ L’OR capsules, which work in Nespresso machines and
are sold across  Europe , increased by 60 million euros ($79
million), the company said in August. There are about 50 capsule
suppliers across Europe, Weening said, and Nestle has said there
are 30 in Switzerland alone.  Nestle’s legal actions, which include lawsuits filed in
several European countries, have so far not stopped rivals from
selling compatible capsules. The most recent ruling came in
April when a Nestle unit lost a patent infringement lawsuit that
sought to block Dualit, a U.K. company, from making capsules for
Nespresso machines.  “We have done our homework and are confident on the legal
side,” Weening said yesterday.  Lower Prices  The executive declined to say how much Mondelez’s capsules
would cost, or in which retailers they would be sold. Nespresso
capsules cost about 35 euro cents per cup. He also said the move
into Nespresso-friendly capsules was not related to volatile
coffee-bean prices, which have plummeted over the past year.
Lower coffee prices shaved 1.3 percentage points off Mondelez’s
so-called organic sales growth in its most recent quarter.  “The lower revenue has been offset with lower input costs,
so coffee remains a profitable business for us,” Weening said.
Mondelez generates about $4 billion in global coffee sales, and
buys 6 percent of the world’s coffee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in  London  at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  