-- NFP Investor Sues to Block Sale to Madison Dearborn
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-06-10T16:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/nfp-investor-sues-to-block-sale-to-madison-dearborn.html
A  National Financial Partners Corp. (NFP) 
shareholder sued to block the firm’s $1.3 billion sale to
Madison Dearborn Partners LLC’s, a Chicago-based private equity
firm.  Douglas Cory Branch, who said he holds $16,500 in NFP
 stock , sued June 7 in  Manhattan  federal court, claiming NFP, a
New York-based insurance brokerage and wealth-management
company, failed to disclose enough information about the merger
to its shareholders. Branch asked for a court order blocking the
sale on behalf of a class of all investors in the firm.  Branch claimed proxy materials fail to provide sufficient
detail of NFP’s financial projections, the role played by senior
management in the deal negotiations and the basis for a fairness
opinion issued in support of the sale. Shareholders in NFP are
scheduled to vote on the acquisition June 19, according to
Branch.  In April, NFP announced its planned sale to Madison
Dearborn for $25.35 a share in cash. That represents a
26 percent premium above NFP’s  closing share price  on March 12,
the day before the company said it was considering a deal to go
private.  Madison Dearborn has raised six funds with more than
$18 billion and invested in 125 companies since it was founded
in 1992. The firm’s investments include Boise Cascade Co., a
maker of building materials, and T-Mobile USA Inc., a wireless
carrier, according to its  website .  Chuck Dohrenwend, a spokesman for Madison Dearborn at
Abernathy MacGregor Group, declined to comment on the suit.
Lesley Bogdanow, a spokeswoman for NFP at Sard Verbinnen & Co.,
had no immediate comment.  The case is Branch v. National Financial Partners Corp.,
13-cv-3925, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  