-- LNG Boom No Comfort as Petronas Sees Cheap U.S. Gas Fallacy
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n ,   W i n n i e   Z h u   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2013-06-11T07:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/lng-boom-no-comfort-to-asia-as-petronas-sees-cheap-gas-fallacy.html
The shale boom that’s putting the
U.S. on course for energy independence is providing little
comfort for liquefied-natural gas consumers in Asia.  “If you want cheap gas, there is no gas,” Fereidun Fesharaki, the chairman of Facts Global Energy, an energy
consultant, said at a conference in  Kuala Lumpur  yesterday.
“You’re going to pay at least $12 to $13 per million British
thermal units,” compared with about $4 in the U.S., he said.  Spot cargoes of liquefied natural gas for delivery to
Northeast Asia cost $14.50 per million Btu, research company
Energy Intelligence Group said June 5. With U.S. natural gas
trading at about $4 per million Btu, Asian importers will pay
about $10.60 per million Btu, Houston-based  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) 
estimated in an April presentation.  Asia is buying LNG at almost four times the price of U.S.
natural gas as Japanese utilities consume record amounts to
replace idled nuclear capacity and China seeks to bolster use of
cleaner fuels. Importers still won’t benefit from cheaper U.S.
supplies as exporters seek to safeguard investments in new
projects, according to the head of Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,
 Malaysia ’s state-owned energy company known as Petronas.  “The notion of cheap LNG is a fallacy,” Shamsul Azhar Abbas, Petronas’s president and chief executive officer, said at
the Asia Oil & Gas Conference in Kuala Lumpur yesterday.
“Energy users need to understand that  energy security  requires
a premium to allow re-investments.”  U.S. Approval  The U.S. is looking more likely to start exporting LNG
after Freeport LNG Development LP’s terminal in  Texas  became the
second project to be approved by the Energy Department to send
gas to countries that don’t have free-trade agreements with the
U.S., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said last month. Cheniere
Energy’s Sabine Pass terminal, the first to get the go-ahead,
was approved two years earlier.  The Energy Department is weighing 20 applications for LNG
export terminals. Hydraulic fracturing of shale rock formations
from Texas to  West Virginia  has boosted supplies of gas in the
U.S., helping the nation overtake  Russia  as the world’s biggest
producer of the fuel in 2009.  LNG won’t be cheap in  Asia  because even if the U.S. starts
exporting the fuel, the minimum cost to liquefy and then ship
the gas will be at least $10 per unit, according to David Morrison, the chairman of energy at Wood Mackenzie Ltd., an
Edinburgh-based consultant.  “There is no such thing such as cheap LNG,” Martin
Houston,  BG Group Plc (BG/) ’s chief operating officer, said today in
Kuala Lumpur. “Price levels, however they are set, have to
cover the costs of new projects.”  Japan Prices  By the time they are completed, Freeport and Sabine Pass
will be able to ship 3.6 billion cubic feet of LNG a day. The
U.S. may export 6.5 billion to 8.5 billion cubic feet a day of
gas by 2020, Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Longson said in a
report on May 20.  Gas for July delivery at the  Henry Hub  in Erath,  Louisiana ,
traded at $3.851 per million Btu on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange yesterday. The contract to deliver gas in January 2018
was about $5 per million Btu.  Japan , the world’s largest LNG importer, is paying about
$16 to $18 per million Btu for LNG, according to Ken Koyama, the
chief economist and managing director of the Institute of Energy
Economics Japan. Based on current prices, future U.S. exports
could cost only $10 to $11 per million Btu, he said.  Japan imported a record 86.9 million metric tons of LNG in
the 12 months ended March 2013 as most of the country’s nuclear
reactors remained shut because of safety concerns after the
March 2011 disaster at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic station.  Diversify Supply  “We need to diversify supply,” Koyama said in Kuala
Lumpur yesterday. “Demand for LNG will rise substantially. We
have existing major players such as  Australia , but we also need
new suppliers.”  Transporting LNG from the U.S. to Asia still won’t benefit
suppliers or importers significantly, according to Facts’
Fesharaki. U.S. LNG exporters will get “very small” margins
amid “fierce” competition among suppliers, he said.  “If you want to profit from the U.S. shale gas revolution,
you have to move to the U.S. because that’s where you will see
the benefits,” he said.  China Shale  China ’s ambitions to drill for less accessible gas
deposits, touted as an alternative to imports, may be delayed,
according to Wood Mackenzie. While the government in Beijing
predicts output of 80 billion cubic feet by 2020, or 23 percent
of total expected demand, the target is likely to be met only in
2030, according to Morrison.  China currently produces no commercial quantities o shale
gas. Output in 2020 will likely be 18 billion cubic meters,
according to the average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg in February. That’s more pessimistic than a year
earlier when the forecast was 23 billion cubic meters.  “China’s shale-gas reserves are probably much more than in
the U.S.,” said Koyama. “These are just reserves at the
moment. They face quite a lot of difficulty to get the gas
out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Winnie Zhu in Singapore at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  