-- Norway-U.K. Power Cable Investors to Contest Private-Owner Ban
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-06-10T13:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/norway-u-k-power-cable-investors-to-contest-private-owner-ban.html
Vattenfall  AB and E-CO Energi AS are
among investors contesting  Norway ’s  ban  on private ownership of
cross-border electricity cables, jeopardizing a planned power
link with the U.K.  Norway adopted a law on June 7 that guarantees state-owned
grid operator Statnett SF exclusive or majority control of all
power links abroad, according to the minutes of a government
vote posted on its website. The rule effectively bans privately
owned, or merchant, cables.  The law may thwart the 1,400-megawatt Northconnect cable
which would connect Norway to the U.K. by 2020, a project
financed by utilities including  Sweden ’s Vattenfall, Norway’s E-CO Energi, Agder Energi AS and Lyse Energi AS. The country’s ban
may breach European Free Trade Association, or EFTA, rules,
according to Northconnect.  “We will start preparing our case, and will make a
decision how to proceed with the court appeal in August,” Odd Oeygarden, chairman of the Northconnect owners group, said today
by telephone from Kristiansand, Norway. “We’ll lodge a
complaint with the EFTA surveillance authority to defend our
planned cable.”  Norway’s petroleum and energy ministry had no immediate
comment on Northconnect’s challenge, Jon Evang, a spokesman at
the ministry, said today by phone from Oslo.  The country’s power-cable law is designed to improve  energy
security  and make the electricity grid more efficient, according
to the government. Statnett and the U.K.’s  National Grid Plc (NG/)  are
planning their own link to allow Norway to export excess
hydropower, according to the Norwegian  grid  operator.  The proposal has been open for public consultation since
September and has drawn criticism from Northconnect, power
industry association Energy Norway and opposition political
parties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  