-- Obama Commerce, Transportation Picks Advance in Senate
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-06-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/obama-commerce-transportation-picks-advance-to-senate.html
The nominations of  Penny Pritzker 
for Commerce secretary and Anthony Foxx as Transportation
secretary advanced to the full U.S. Senate, bypassing the
political fights that have stymied other high-level
appointments.  The Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee
voted unanimously for Pritzker, a Chicago billionaire, and Foxx,
the mayor of Charlotte, North Carolina, said Chairman  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat. He said the votes
yesterday to advance President  Barack Obama ’s nominees were
“extraordinary,” given disagreements on other selections.  “I urge my colleagues to act quickly now to schedule votes
on their nominations,” Rockefeller said in a statement. A vote
may be set before the July recess, he said.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, also
is delaying until July consideration of several nominations that
have triggered Republican opposition and led to threats by
Democrats to change filibuster rules to expedite confirmations.  The stalled nominees include  Thomas Perez  to oversee the
Labor Department, Gina McCarthy as administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency,  Richard Cordray  as director of
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and five selected for
the National Labor Relations Board.  Offshore Investments  Republicans had pledged a tough confirmation hearing for
Pritzker, 54, a top Democratic donor who helped leadObama to
record fundraising levels as the finance chairman of his 2008
campaign. They focused on her offshore investments and role in
the 2001 collapse of Illinois’ Superior Bank, a pioneer in the
securitization of subprime mortgages.  Instead, Republicans including  Ron Johnson  of Wisconsin and
 Dan Coats  of Indiana said she made a strong impression in one-on-one meetings before the hearing. Questions from party
lawmakers centered on her views on Commerce operations -- from
weather forecasting to trade promotion and airwaves management.  Pritzker would bring business experience to a department
with almost 43,000 workers. She has developed a Chicago
skyscraper, started a luxury senior housing company and served
as chairwoman for a credit-reporting company. She would replace
 John Bryson , who quit a year ago for health reasons.  Pritzker, whose family began  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H) , would be
among the wealthiest U.S. cabinet secretaries in history,
ranking with industrialist  Andrew Mellon , who served as Treasury
secretary during the 1920s. In a disclosure form last month, she
reported assets of $400 million to $2.2 billion, excluding the
value of more than $50 million in Hyatt stock. The Bloomberg
Billionaires Index puts her net worth at more than $1.5 billion.  Consulting Fee  On her investments, Pritzker told senators she is seeking
to change administration of offshore trusts benefiting her and
her family to the U.S. In her filing, Pritzker said she received
$53.6 million in consulting-fee income last year from funds in
the Bahamas, administered by CIBC Trust Co.  Foxx, if confirmed, would be a Washington newcomer running
the Transportation Department after Ray LaHood, who is leaving.
LaHood was a chief of staff to former House Republican Leader
Robert Michel then elected as a Republican representing an
Illinois congressional district from 1995 to 2009.  Foxx, 42, would face challenges, including a national
highway system short on cash and financed by a gasoline tax that
neither lawmakers nor Obama want to raise. Also, fresh automatic
budget cuts known as sequestration set to begin with the next
fiscal year on Oct. 1 would reduce the agency’s funding.  One Transportation Department unit -- the  Federal Aviation
Administration  -- had to cut $637 million this year. Budget
choices included furloughs of air-traffic controllers and
shutdowns of towers operated by contractors that sparked a clash
with Congress. In April, LaHood worked with key lawmakers to
negotiate legislation that passed both chambers giving the
agency added flexibility to make cuts elsewhere.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  