-- Oil, Gas From Shale Seen Rising as More Nations Explore
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-06-10T16:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/oil-gas-from-shale-seen-rising-as-more-nations-explore.html
Global resources of oil and gas from
shale formations are greater than previously estimated as more
nations join efforts to explore for deposits following a burst
of production in the U.S.  The U.S.  Energy Information Administration  released a fresh
 assessment  of worldwide resources of oil and gas in shale, which
are tapped by hydraulic fracturing, showing tight oil resources
could be 345 billion barrels. Shale gas estimates were increased
by 10 percent from 2011, to 7,299 trillion cubic feet.  “As shale oil and shale gas production has grown in the
United States to become 30 percent of oil and 40 percent of
natural gas total production, interest in the oil and natural
gas resource potential of shale formations outside the United
States has grown,”  Adam Sieminski , the agency’s administrator,
said today a statement. The report shows “a significant
potential for international shale oil and shale gas.”  The report doesn’t assess all prospective shale formations,
leaving out those under the large  oil fields  in the  Middle East 
and the  Caspian region  because of a lack of data. The report
studied technically recoverable resources, and the agency says
some of those might not be economically justified given current
cost for drilling or fracking in different nations.  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, in which water, sand and
chemicals are shot underground to break apart rock and free
natural gas or oil trapped in the shale, has led to a boom in
energy production to  Pennsylvania , Texas and North Dakota. It’s
led to a drop in natural gas prices, and estimates that the U.S.
could meet its energy needs for the first time in decades.  The EIA studied shale formations in 41 nations, compared
with 32 assessed in a similar report in 2011. That report didn’t
include estimates of tight oil. Shale resources account for 32
percent of the global estimated natural gas resources and 10
percent of estimated oil resources in shale, according to the
report.  Shale oil resources are greatest in  Russia , followed by the
U.S. and China. Shale gas is greatest in China, Argentina and
 Algeria , the agency said in its report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  