-- Holland & Knight, DLA, Nixon Peabody: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-06-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/holland-knight-dla-nixon-peabody-business-of-law.html
Former  Florida  Representative Miguel
De Grandy joined Holland & Knight LLP’s Miami office as a
partner. De Grandy was a member of the Florida House of
Representatives from 1989 to 1994 and most recently was the
principal shareholder at his own boutique government affairs
firm.  De Grandy provides legal representation for clients doing
business with city, county and state governmental agencies. In
addition to government procurement, he also handles
administrative and regulatory, land use and zoning,
environmental, bid protest, and litigation matters, the firm
said in a statement.  Turnbull has experience in all areas of real estate
development, from land use and zoning, acquisitions and sales,
and financing, to legislative and governmental affairs matters.  Holland & Knight has 1,000 lawyers in 17 U.S. offices as
well as Abu Dhabi, Beijing, Bogota and Mexico City.  Ogletree Deakins Adds Employment and Labor Relations Attorneys  Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart PC hired Ronald Kreismann as a shareholder in its New York City office. He joins
from Blank Rome LLP, where he was a partner.  In  Portland , the firm also hired Caroline Guest as
shareholder, along with an of counsel, both of whom previously
were with Littler Mendelson PC.  Kreismann has more than 40 years of experience in labor and
employment law matters. He represents clients in collective
bargaining negotiations and arbitrations and counsels them on
employment matters including wage and hour, equal employment
opportunity, and family and medical leave, the firm said in a
statement.  Guest is a labor and employment attorney with nearly 20
years of experience. Her practice includes litigation,
counseling and training.  Ogletree Deakins has more than 650 lawyers at 44 offices in
the U.S. and Europe.  Kaufman Dolowich Adds Two Partners and Four Lawyers in L.A.  Kaufman Dolowich & Voluck LLP announced that insurance
industry and business litigator Dean B. Herman and Hee Young
Lee, who represents insurers and policyholders, have joined the
firm as partners in the Los Angeles office. They will be
accompanied by a senior counsel and three associates. Herman,
Lee and the three associates join from Mendes & Mount LLP in Los
Angeles.  Herman will serve as co-chairman of the firm’s national
insurance/bad faith practice group with Kevin Mattessich, a New
York-based partner, and together Herman and Lee will manage and
lead the firm’s insurance practice in the California offices,
the firm said.  Herman defends and advises insurers and professionals on
liability, first and third-party insurance coverage issues, bad
faith and errors and omissions issues. He will also be working
out of the San Francisco office.  Lee’s practice is focused on advising and defending
insurers and their insureds in federal and state courts in
intellectual property, environmental, construction defect,
agribusiness, privacy and personal lines claims matters. She
also defends insureds in professional liability claims. Lee will
have a leadership role in the Los Angeles office, the firm said.  Based in Woodbury, New York, Kaufman Dolowich has 80
lawyers in offices in New York, New Jersey,  Pennsylvania ,
Florida, San Francisco and Los Angeles.  Bird & Bird Appoints IT/IP Partner in Poland  Bird & Bird LLP added Malgorzata Darowska as a partner in
the Poland office. She joins from Dentons where she was head of
the intellectual property and technology practice for more than
two years, Bird said in a statement.  Malgorzata will work across the IT and IP practices and
has more than 13 years’ experience in financial services,
energy, IT, media and telecommunications, life sciences and food
and beverages matters, the firm said. She specializes in
technology transfer and commercialization, e-commerce, privacy
and data protection, consumer protection and IP, in particular
projects related to IP management.  Bird & Bird has more than 1,000 lawyers in 25 offices
across Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  DLA Piper Adds to Employment and Litigation Practice  DLA Piper LLP said employment and commercial
litigator Joseph Guarino joined the firm as a partner in Florham
Park, New Jersey. He was previously an employment litigation
partner in the Newark office of Epstein Becker Green PC.  Guarino is both a litigator and employment counselor. He
has handled employment matters including wage and hour class
actions, ERISA, ADA, and a variety of employment discrimination,
whistle-blowing and retaliation cases, the firm said.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in more than 30 countries
throughout the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle
East.  Real Estate Attorney Rejoins Day Pitney in Stamford  Day Pitney LLP announced that James P. Carlon has rejoined
the firm, as partner in the real estate, land use and
environmental department in  Stamford . Carlon, who was previously
a commercial real estate associate at Day Pitney, joins from
Kelley Drye & Warren LLP.  Carlon has experience representing clients on commercial
real estate transactions including construction and permanent
financing, acquisitions, sales and lease transactions, the firm
said. His practice includes handling commercial real estate
assets, including office developments, retail property and
apartment complexes. He has also consulted with real estate
clients on bankruptcy and restructuring matters relating to the
bankruptcy of large retail tenants of shopping centers.  Day Pitney has more than 300 attorneys in  Boston ,
 Connecticut , New Jersey, New York and  Washington .  In House  BlackBerry’s New Chief Legal Officer Fights Company Critics  Steve Zipperstein prosecuted failed savings-and-loan
associations in the 1980s and investigated the government’s
siege of the Branch Davidian compound in Waco,  Texas , in the
1990s. Now the battle-hardened lawyer has joined Canadian
smartphone maker BlackBerry to fight its critics, Bloomberg
News’s Hugo Miller reports.  Zipperstein, who turns 54 this month, was lured out of
retirement in Santa Barbara,  California , last year by an offer
to become BlackBerry’s chief legal officer. He joined the
Waterloo, Ontario-based company in July to handle everything
from patent disputes to privacy issues, and says his time as a
Justice Department lawyer and federal prosecutor in Los Angeles
will serve him well in defending BlackBerry’s interests.  “I was really blessed to be able to combine jury trial
courtroom experience with inside-the-Beltway Washington
political policy experience,” Zipperstein said in an interview.  After years of market-share losses, BlackBerry is trying to
stem a customer exodus to Google’s Android and Apple’s iOS, and
the company’s taking a more assertive legal approach to
disputes. That includes challenging analysts who publish reports
that BlackBerry says are untrue and lobbying for legislation to
thwart companies derided as patent trolls, which obtain patents
to demand royalties rather than making their own products.  For more, click here.  News  Manchin Says Attorney General Holder Should Consider Resigning  Attorney General Eric Holder should consider resigning,
Senator Joe Manchin, a West Virginia Democrat, says in interview
with Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  “Whenever you feel that you have lost your effectiveness
or may be losing your effectiveness to the detriment of the job
that you do,” he said about Holder, “you have to evaluate that
and make a decision. And I think we’re at the time now where
decisions have to be made”  On June 4 Holder said he had no immediate plans to leave
his post.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Nixon Peabody Names Barron San Francisco Managing Partner  Anthony Barron was named managing partner of the Nixon
Peabody LLP’s San Francisco office. He was most recently deputy
leader of the firm’s largest practice, commercial litigation and
will continue his litigation practice, which includes
construction, real estate, banking and other matters.  “Tony has demonstrated strong leadership skills while
building a thriving practice,” Andrew I. Glincher, Nixon
Peabody chief executive officer and managing partner, said in a
statement. “I am confident that Tony will ensure our continued
growth and success in California.”  Barron succeeds Paul Schrier, who served in the role for
almost seven years and oversaw the addition of more than 70
attorneys from the former Thelen LLP firm. Schrier, a business
and real estate attorney, will continue to focus his practice on
mergers and acquisitions and cross-border transactions in a wide
array of industries.  The firm has Silicon Valley and Los Angeles offices on the
West Coast, in addition to San Francisco. Nixon Peabody has
about 700 attorneys in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 