-- London Status as ‘Wife-Friendly Divorce Capital’ at Stake
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-06-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/london-status-as-wife-friendly-divorce-capital-at-stake.html
London ’s status as a “wife-friendly
divorce capital” is at stake in a U.K. Supreme Court ruling
over access to an oil trader’s properties held by offshore
companies.  Yasmin Prest is suing three companies controlled by her ex-husband, Michael Prest, to cover part of a 17.5 million pounds
($27 million) 2011 divorce accord, which he hasn’t complied
with, according to documents filed with the Supreme Court. The
U.K.’s highest court will rule tomorrow on the case, which could
have far-reaching implications for future divorce cases in
England, according to family lawyers.  The outcome of the case, which has seen family and
commercial courts collide, may affect London’s reputation as
what U.K. Court of Appeal judges have dubbed the divorce capital
of Europe. Past divorce case rulings by courts in the British
capital have tended to favor the spouse with fewer assets.  “If the wife loses, the decision will tarnish London’s
image as a wife-friendly divorce capital,” William Healing, a
lawyer at  Kingsley Napley LLP , said. If the three Isle of Man-based companies win, the courts “will have allowed the husband
to drive a coach and horses through the principle of fair
sharing of assets,” he said.  Corporate Veil  The companies, which include Petrodel Resources Ltd.,
Petrodel Upstream Ltd., and Vermont Petroleum Ltd., aren’t
relevant to the divorce, their lawyers said at a March hearing.
The firms asked the seven-judge panel to dismiss the wife’s
claim. An earlier court ruling denied her access to the
properties.  British law provides that companies are legally separate
entities from their shareholders -- raising a so-called
corporate veil -- to protect investors from debts or liabilities
the company may accumulate. Prest’s ex-husband isn’t a party to
the litigation.  Yasmin Prest’s lawyer,  Jeremy Posnansky , said the ruling
will have “significant implications for both family law and
company law.”  “If the Supreme Court dismisses my client’s appeal, it’s
likely to make the enforcement of court orders in some divorce
cases more difficult and it could encourage devious spouses
deliberately to keep their wealth in the names of their
companies,” Posnansky said.  Nigeria-born Michael Prest is “prominent in and successful
in international oil development and trade,” and estimated to
be worth about 38 million pounds, according to an earlier court
ruling.  Pre-Nuptial  “It is a difficult call,” Miranda Green, a lawyer at
Mundays LLP who isn’t involved in the case, said in an e-mail.
“Common sense and justice suggest that courts should access
assets in companies when it is fair and just to do so.”  A review of U.K. divorce law was triggered in September, in
part by the case of German heiress Katrin Radmacher and ex-JPMorgan Chase & Co. investment banker Nicolas Granatino. In
2010, the U.K.’s top court ruled for the first time that a U.S.-
style pre-nuptial agreement on dividing assets, reached before
marriage, should be enforced.  The Law Commission, an advisory body sponsored by the
Ministry of Justice, is reviewing U.K. court standards in
divorce proceedings. The group is reviewing pre-nuptial accords,
support payments and division of non-marital assets -- assets
belonging to one spouse, often from before a marriage.  In the Prest case, a three-judge panel at the U.K. Court of
Appeal in October handed down a split decision, in favor of
Michael Prest’s companies.  ‘High Standard’  The Prests married in 1993 and had four children and houses
in London, Nigeria and the Caribbean, according to the
appeals court ruling. The family lived life “to a very high
standard,” Judge Mathew Thorpe said in the appeals court
judgment. The last house the couple lived in, in London, is
worth around 4 million pounds, the judge said.  The house, in west London, was bought in 2001 under the
name of Petrodel Resources. That company and Vermont Petroleum
hold seven other London properties which are the subject of the
lawsuit.  “Nevermind London’s reputation as divorce capital of the
world, what about its reputation as one of the major financial
centers of the world?” said Sarah Ingram, a lawyer for the
companies. “A decision to allow divorcing spouses in  England  to
strip businesses of their assets while disregarding innocent
third-party creditors would hardly do that any good.”  The original court-ordered lump-sum payment of 17.5 million
pounds required to be paid to Yasmin Prest “is fully
enforceable by law against the husband,” Tim Amos, another
lawyer for the companies, said at a hearing in March. “We well
understand the wife’s frustration with the husband.”  Yasmin Prest had sought 30.4 million pounds in the divorce,
according to the ruling. Her husband had proposed just over 2
million pounds.  “The family court must be allowed to provide for a fair
outcome, not hampered by the fact that one party has tied-up
assets in a company,” Green said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  