-- Indian Group to Pay $2.5 Billion for Mozambique Field Stake
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-06-10T13:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/ongc-led-group-to-pay-2-5-billion-for-stake-in-mozambique-field.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  and  Oil
India Ltd. (OINL) ,  India ’s biggest state-run explorers, will pay $2.5
billion to buy a stake in a Mozambique natural gas field from
 Videocon Industries Ltd. (VCLF)   The two Indian explorers will buy Videocon Mozambique
Rovuma 1 Ltd., which owns 10 percent in the Rovuma-1 field in
the waters off the African nation, ONGC said today in an e-mailed statement. The transaction is expected to close in the
last quarter of 2013.  ONGC has announced $8.5 billion of oil and gas acquisitions
outside India since September as it seeks to raise overseas
production more than sixfold by 2030 and cut the south Asian
nation’s dependence on imports. It plans to spend 11 trillion
rupees ($189 billion) by 2030 to add reserves in India and
overseas and reverse a decline in output from aging fields at
home.  “There’s a huge gas demand and supply gap in India and its
increasing,” said Bhavesh Chauhan, a Mumbai-based analyst with
Angel Broking Ltd., who has a buy rating on ONGC shares.
“India’s state-run companies will go wherever there’s gas for
sale. The LNG from  Mozambique  can quite easily be brought to
India.”  The Indian group will form a new venture to acquire
Videocon’s unit.  ONGC Videsh Ltd. , ONGC’s overseas unit, will
hold 60 percent of the venture and Oil India 40 percent,
according to the statement. The acquisition is subject to the
approval of both governments, regulatory permissions and pre-emption rights by existing partners in the Rovuma-1 area.  ONGC  shares  rose 0.6 percent to 321.05 rupees, while Oil
India fell 1.1 percent to 566.95 rupees at the close in Mumbai.
ONGC has gained 20 percent this year, compared with a 0.1
percent advance in the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  index.  Top Destination  Mozambique has become one of the world’s top destinations
for energy investment as companies including  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  seek partners to develop the country’s
offshore gas reserves. The African nation may have 250 trillion
cubic feet of gas reserves, according to  Empresa Nacional de
Hidrocarbonetos , Mozambiques state-run oil company. That’s
equivalent to more than two years of the world’s natural gas
consumption.  China  National Petroleum Corp., China’s largest oil
producer, earlier this year agreed to buy a 20 percent stake in
another block in the Rovuma area for $4.2 billion from Eni.  Convert Gas  Anadarko and Eni plan to convert gas from the Indian Ocean
fields in Mozambique to liquid and transport it to countries
including India. Liquefied natural gas plants need billions of
dollars in investment to chill the gas to a liquid and ship it
using tankers.  At a planned capacity of 20 million tons annually, the
Mozambique project could be the world’s second-largest LNG
export site after Ras Laffan in  Qatar , where  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
is a partner.  “The Area 1 LNG project is strategically located to supply
LNG to India at a competitive price,” ONGC said in the
statement. “Participation of ONGC Videsh and Oil India in the
project will facilitate access of LNG to the growing Indian gas
market.”  Rovuma-1 has the potential to become one of the world’s
largest LNG producing areas by 2018, according to the statement.  Anadarko Petroleum is the operator of the block with 36.5
percent stake in the block.  Japan ’s Mitsui & Co. owns 20
percent, Indian refiner  Bharat Petroleum Corp. (BPCL)  has 10 percent,
Thailand’s  PTT Exploration and Production Pcl  owns 8.5 percent
and Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos 15 percent, according to
Anadarko’s  website .  Combined Stake  ONGC and Oil India’s acquisition today will give Indian
state-run companies a combined 20 percent stake.  Asian companies from China to India are striking deals
around the world as local oil and gas production is unable to
keep up with growing demand.  India’s energy demand is forecast to rise 14 percent by
2015 to 27.8 quadrillion British thermal units from 2011 levels,
according to  data  from the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. China’s may rise 16 percent in the period.  In March, ONGC completed the acquisition of  Hess Corp. (HES) ’s
2.7 percent stake in Azerbaijan’s largest oil field and an
associated pipeline for $1 billion. In November, it announced a
$5 billion purchase of  ConocoPhillips (COP) ’s 8.4 percent stake in
Kazakhstan’s Kashagan project, touted as the biggest oil find
since the 1960s when it was discovered in 2000.  The company is still awaiting the Kazaksthan government’s
approval for the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  