-- Monsanto Court Win Tosses Patent Suit by Organic Farmers
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-06-10T22:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/monsanto-court-win-tosses-patent-suit-by-organic-farmers.html
Monsanto Co. (MON)  won’t have to face a
challenge to its patents on genetically modified seeds as long
as it doesn’t sue organic farmers and seed sellers, a U.S.
appeals court said today.  The world’s largest seed company has made “binding
assurances” that it won’t take patent action against farmers
whose crops inadvertently contain traces of Monsanto’s
biotechnology products, so there’s no reason to sue, the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in  Washington  said in
an  opinion  posted on its website. The decision affirmed a lower
court ruling dismissing the case.  Monsanto has pursued more than 800 patent cases against
farmers who plant its seeds without paying royalties. The case
at issue today, filed in March 2011, was a preemptive action by
farmers, seed sellers and agricultural groups that said they had
no desire to sow the company’s seeds, took steps to avoid doing
so and yet feared becoming litigation targets if traits modified
by Monsanto showed up in their corn, soybeans or other crops.  “Monsanto’s binding representations remove any risk of
suit against the appellants as users or sellers of trace amounts
(less than 1 percent) of modified seed,” Circuit Judge Timothy Dyk wrote for the three-judge panel. “The appellants have
alleged no concrete plans or activities to use or sell greater
than trace amounts of modified seed, and accordingly fail to
show any risk of suit on that basis.”  ‘Inadvertent Means’  Between 1997 and 2010, Monsanto brought 144 infringement
lawsuits and settled about 700 other cases without suing,
according to the opinion. The St. Louis-based company’s
practices have been upheld by courts, including a May decision
from the U.S. Supreme Court.  On its website, St. Louis-based Monsanto said it “has
never been nor will it be Monsanto policy to exercise its  patent
rights  where trace amounts of our patented seeds or traits are
present in farmer’s fields as a result of inadvertent means.”  Monsanto said there had not been a “a single act of patent
enforcement” against any of the companies or people who brought
the complaint at issue in today’s decision.  “The assertion that Monsanto would pursue patent
infringement against farmers that have no interest in using the
company’s patented seed technology was hypothetical from the
outset,” Thomas Helscher, a company spokesman, said in a
statement.  Monsanto gained 4.5 percent at the close today in  New York 
trading, rising to $106.25. It was the biggest gain since Jan.
5, 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Trace Amounts  It isn’t clear what would happen if more than trace amounts
were found, the court said. With about half of the nation’s
farmland sown with genetically modified crop varieties, it’s
possible some growers have been contaminated by Monsanto’s
technology that makes plants able to survive the application of
the popular Roundup weedkiller, the panel said.  Dan Ravicher, executive director of the Public Patent
Foundation, which sued on behalf of the organic farmers, said
the ruling was a partial victory.  “Before this suit, the Organic Seed plaintiffs were forced
to take expensive precautions and avoid full use of their land
in order to not be falsely accused of patent infringement by
Monsanto,” he said in a  statement  posted on the group’s
website. “The decision today means that the farmers did have
the right to bring the suit to protect themselves, but now that
Monsanto has bound itself to not suing the plaintiffs, the Court
of Appeals believes the suit should not move forward.”  Other Costs  The Federal Circuit panel said a challenge to the Monsanto
patents wouldn’t help the farmers’ other complaints about the
economic costs they incur to avoid contamination or their claims
of a potential long-term medical or environmental impact of
genetically modified seeds.  The seed company is facing lawsuits over claims it failed
to take appropriate steps to prevent such a contamination after
an experimental wheat variety was found in an Oregon field.
 Japan  and  South Korea  suspended some purchases of U.S. grain
following the discovery. Monsanto has said the contamination may
have been the result of an “accidental or purposeful” act.  The case is Organic Seed Growers and Trade Association v.
Monsanto Co., 12-1298,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Organic Seed
Growers and Trade Association v. Monsanto Co., 11cv2163, U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  