-- Emerging-Market Stocks Decline 10% From This Year’s Peak
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-06-10T22:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/most-emerging-stocks-rise-on-u-s-japan-data-as-zoomlion-slides.html
Emerging-market stocks retreated,
sending the benchmark measure down 10 percent from this year’s
peak, as disappointing Chinese data added to concern the global
economy is faltering. India’s rupee slumped to a record.  PetroChina Co. (857)  fell to the lowest price since 2010, while
OAO Lukoil paced losses among Russian commodity stocks. Brazil’s
Ibovespa extended a slump from this year’s high to 19 percent,
as beef producer JBS SA slid. The rupee posted its largest drop
in more than 20 months on bets the central bank will refrain
from lowering borrowing costs. Mexico’s IPC index rose the most
among major equity benchmarks in the Americas and Europe.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index retreated 0.8 percent to
972.89, extending the decline from its Jan. 3 peak to 10
percent.  China ’s industrial production rose a less-than-forecast
9.2 percent last month, while export gains were at a 10-month
low and imports dropped, data over the weekend showed. A
government report on June 7 showed U.S. employers took on more
workers than forecast last month.  “Investors are not seeking additional risk at this
point,”  Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-based fund
manager at Federated Investors Inc., which oversees about $380
billion, said by phone. “The data from  North America  continues
to indicate recovery, but that’s not necessarily true for the
rest of the world. The sun appears to be rising in the U.S.
faster than in other geographies, and China is on the list.”  Consumer discretionary and commodity shares  led losses  in a
measure of developing-nation stocks among 10 groups. The broad
gauge extended this year’s drop to 7.8 percent, compared with a
10 percent jump in the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund slid 1.4 percent to $40.14. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
dropped 2.3 percent to 23.76.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  fell to the lowest since October 2011 as
JBS tumbled the most in six months after the world’s largest
beef producer agreed to buy meat-processing plants in Brazil
from Marfrig Alimentos SA.  Mexico’s  IPC index  rose 1.2 percent on bets that improving
economic data will fuel a rebound from the lowest valuations in
11 months. Lender Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB advanced 3.1
percent, while steelmaker Industrias CH SAB climbed 3.3 percent
and miner Industrial Penoles SAB added 5.4 percent.  Russian shares erased gains as metal producers followed
commodities lower and Bank Rossii left its main  interest rates 
unchanged. Lukoil slid 1.1 percent, while OAO Severstal, the
nation’s second-largest steelmaker, tumbled 5.3 percent.  Turkish Lira  Turkey’s lira slumped as Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  warned demonstrators and lashed out against financial
speculators for seeking to profit from protests against his
government. The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index
slid 2.5 percent as Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS, the country’s
biggest lender, lost 3.4 percent.  South Africa’s rand declined to the lowest level since
March 2009. The nation plans to sell its first foreign-currency
bond in 18 months, with analysts forecasting the rand will
rebound, reducing repayment costs.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  decreased 0.6
percent, extending declines for a ninth day, the longest losing
streak since March 26, 2012. Financial markets in the mainland
were closed for a holiday. PetroChina sank a fourth day.  India ’s rupee sank to a record as investors favored the
dollar on speculation U.S. policy makers will curb asset
purchases, triggering concern about inflation in a nation that
imports about 80 percent of its oil.  Egyptian shares fell to the lowest in more than 10 months
on investor concern anti-government protests will gain momentum
as President Mohamed Mursi marks the first anniversary of his
election. Commercial International Bank  Egypt  SAE, the country’s
biggest publicly traded lender, slid 4.1 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  slid one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 312 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  