-- Mourinho, Now the ‘Happy One,’ Targets More Success at Chelsea
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-06-10T14:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/mourinho-now-the-happy-one-targets-more-success-at-chelsea.html
Jose Mourinho  called himself a
“special one” when he arrived for his first spell in charge at
Chelsea nine years ago. Today he said he’s “the happy one”
after returning to the Premier League soccer team.  The Portuguese coach, 50, was speaking to more than 200
journalists at a televised news conference from the west London
club, which he rejoined last week from Real  Madrid .  “I am the happy one, I am very happy,” he said when asked
if he was still special. “Time flies. A lot of things happened
in my professional life in the last nine years, but I have the
same nature, I am the same person, I have the same heart, I have
the same kind of emotions related to my passion for football and
my job, but I am a different person in this moment.”  Speaking in a more subdued tone than at his 2004 arrival,
he said, “it’s the first time I arrive in a club where I
already love the club.”  Mourinho, who has a four-year contract, guided Chelsea to
two league titles in his first three-year tenure, along with one
F.A. Cup and two League Cups. He said he can better that.  “You never know but I want to believe it’s possible. I
always trust my work,” he said. “I know many of the people
that belong to the club and I know the kind of mentality people
have here. My career was built and based on success where I was
able to win trophies. I want everyone to work hard, work with
quality. The club means much more compared to ourselves. We are
no one without the club. If we work well, success will arrive.”  Denied Clashes  Mourinho left Chelsea in September 2007 after media reports
of clashes with billionaire owner  Roman Abramovich . He denied
today that there’d been a breakdown in relations.  “That’s not true. I read and I keep hearing that I was
fired, I was sacked, we had a complete breakdown of our
relationship. That was not true,” he said. “Many didn’t
believe that but it was a mutual agreement. We thought it was
best for both of us, for me and the club.”  He said he didn’t regret the decision to leave as he had
“probably the best moment of my career” at  Inter Milan , which
he led to the 2010 Champions League title.  “For Chelsea things went well too, after that Chelsea were
European champions for the first time,” he said.  He said he’s returned to Chelsea and Abramovich “because
we are in the best moments of our careers and ready to work
together again. There are much better conditions at this time to
succeed and have what we want, stability.”  Mourinho originally moved to Chelsea from Porto, where he
won the  Champions League  in 2004. At Inter, he won two league
titles and the Italian Cup as well as the Champions League.  Real Madrid  In 2010 he switched to Real Madrid, leading the team to the
2011-12 La Liga championship to end a three-year streak by
Barcelona, which regained the title last season. He also led the
club to three straight Champions League semifinals.  He left Real after his third season, when the record nine-time European champion didn’t win a major trophy. As well as
failing to retain its Spanish league title, it lost to  Borussia
Dortmund (BVB)  in the Champions League semifinals and was defeated by
 Atletico Madrid  in the Copa del Rey final.  At  Stamford  Bridge, Mourinho replaces interim manager
 Rafael Benitez , who won the Europa League this year but was
never accepted by Blues fans after his time at Liverpool.
Benitez was one of seven managers who’ve come and gone since
Mourinho’s first spell.  The Spaniard was appointed as interim manager last November
after the firing of Roberto Di Matteo, who won the Champions
League last year. Chelsea then became the first titleholder
eliminated in the group stage the following season. The Blues
dropped into the Europa League, where they beat Benfica for the
title May 15. They also finished third in the Premier League to
qualify for next season’s Champions League. Benitez has since
joined Napoli.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty n London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  