-- Get Yourself an Eyelid Lift, Courtesy of Taxpayers
-- B y   A a r o n   C a r r o l l   a n d   A u s t i n   F r a k t
-- 2013-06-10T22:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/how-to-look-younger-and-fix-medicare-too.html
The U.S. spends $2.8 trillion a year
on health care, about 18 percent of the economy. As recently
 reported , some of that spending is on Medicare-reimbursed eyelid
lifts -- a procedure that sometimes serves a medical need but
often is for cosmetic enhancement.  Most would agree Medicare should  pay  for medical need, not
to make seniors look better. How could the program better
distinguish between the two?  This instance reflects a more general challenge about
public (or even private) coverage of health care: how we use
collective funds to pay for more of what we need and less for
the things that don’t enhance health but that some may want.  Medicare has been at the center of this debate because it
 consumes  a large fraction of our tax dollars: about 16 percent
of federal spending today and an estimated 18 percent by 2023.
One way to curb this growth is to leave decisions about spending
to the beneficiaries, but increase deductibles and co-payments.  Another is to use evidence and data to recognize which
interventions work best and for whom, and to cover procedures
that do, something called “value-based insurance design.”
These two approaches aren’t as different as they appear.  To date, Medicare hasn’t moved far in either direction.
This leaves it open to payments that some might consider
wasteful, such as for eyelid lifts. Over the past decade, the
number of reimbursed eyelid-lift procedures has  tripled . The
cost to taxpayers has quadrupled, to $80 million from $20
million.  Florida Cases  Medicare traditionally avoids coverage for cosmetic
procedures such as Botox or breast augmentation (except after
medically necessary breast removal). So why cover eyelid lifts?
It’s possible that more of the elderly are suffering real vision
problems in need of corrective surgery.  But is it likely that a disproportionate number of these
patients live in one state? More than  half  of the 20 highest-billing physicians were in  Florida , where one doctor submitted
for 2,200 eyelid lifts in 2008 alone.  This raises the suspicion that some doctors are blurring
the line between use of the  procedure  to correct impaired
peripheral vision, and to make someone look younger. Eyelid
lifts are just one example. There are many other treatments,
such as coronary-artery stenting, that benefit some patients and
not others, to whom they are given anyway.  Medicare needs to do a better job of distinguishing between
the two. One way would be to require pre-authorization for
procedures, using strict criteria for medical need. Medicare
doesn’t do that now. Medicare could also scrutinize doctors who
perform a large number of procedures, imposing penalties on
those who are found to be performing them excessively and
unnecessarily.  It may seem outrageous that this doesn’t happen already. In
general, doctors and the public rebel against such oversight and
control as an intrusion into the doctor-patient relationship.  This very issue caused the backlash in the 1990s against
managed care. Insurers were exerting what was thought to be
excessive control over medical decisions and interfering with
physician autonomy. Nevertheless, private insurers impose pre-authorization constraints on some procedures and monitor the
billings of doctors with whom they contract. It’s time Medicare
did the same.  In addition to these approaches, Medicare should start
directly assessing and paying based on  value . It should avail
itself of the judgment of a body that rules on the merit of
certain treatments -- those of higher value would be reimbursed
at a higher rate. We’re not talking about death panels; no
beneficiary should be denied life-preserving care. However, if
patients want lower-value procedures, they may have to pay more
out of pocket for them.  Stressing Value  If this mechanism was in place, we would probably see fewer
submissions for eyelid lifts. Alternatives such as reducing
costs across the board or raising the Medicare  eligibility 
standard would be unfair and ineffective, shifting costs to
seniors without hitting the right target: the value of care
delivered.  The example of eyelid lifts is easy to rail against. Purely
cosmetic operations are obviously not something most taxpayers
want to finance. Yet the resistance from beneficiaries and
doctors to ending coverage of eyelid lifts illustrates that
reforming Medicare is more than cosmetic.  Short of huge increases in taxes or debt, however, there
just  isn’t enough  money to cover projected future costs. We must
reduce what we spend one way or another. Stopping Florida
seniors from getting free  plastic surgery  is one way to start.  (Aaron Carroll is a  professor  of pediatrics at Indiana
University School of Medicine. Austin Frakt is a health
economist with the U.S. Department of  Veterans Affairs .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Aaron Carroll at  aaecarro@iupui.edu 
Austin Frakt at  frakt@bu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Christopher Flavelle at  cflavelle@bloomberg.net . 