-- Oliver Is 4th Democrat in Primary for Lautenberg’s Seat
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-06-10T19:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/pallone-is-3rd-democrat-in-primary-for-lautenberg-s-seat.html
New Jersey Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver became the fourth Democrat to announce plans to run in
the special election to determine who will finish the term of
the late U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg .  Oliver joins U.S. Representatives  Frank Pallone  and Rush Holt and Newark Mayor Cory Booker in seeking to run in the Oct.
16 election that Governor  Chris Christie  called after
Lautenberg, a five-term Democrat, died on June 3. Today is the
deadline to qualify for the Aug. 13 primary ballot.  “This is going to be a campaign for the heart of the
Democratic Party,” Pallone said today in Trenton.  In a first look at the Democratic contest, Booker got 53
percent of the vote, followed by 10 percent for Holt and 9
percent for Pallone, according to a poll by  Quinnipiac
University  today. Another 23 percent were undecided. Oliver, of
 East Orange , wasn’t included in the poll. In a general election
matchup, Booker topped former Bogota Mayor Steve Lonegan, one of
two Republicans so far to jump in, 54 percent to 27 percent.  Booker, 44, has already received the backing of Democratic
leaders, including Essex County Executive Joseph DiVincenzo, who
attended his announcement over the weekend, and Camden County’s
George Norcross, who endorsed the mayor today.  Voter Signatures  Candidates had to gather signatures from 1,000 registered
voters to qualify for the primary. Booker collected more than
7,000, his campaign said in a statement. Lonegan, 57, said he
had 7,210. Pallone submitted 3,000 to start and will have more,
he said after carrying a cardboard box of signatures into the
state Elections Division office.  “Obviously I’m in and excited,” Pallone said. “As
Democrats we have to believe we can make a difference.”  Alieta Eck, 62, a Republican physician from Somerset who
practices internal medicine, arrived at the elections office
with 2,326 signatures. Running on a health-care platform, she
said she has a “huge amount of support from the inner city.”  “The government can be a real burden,” Eck said.  Oliver, 60, said she had 3,400 signatures and is running on
her appeal to women. “The voters of  New Jersey  are entitled to
have choices,” she said outside the elections office.  Three Weeks  Pallone, 61, who has been a congressman for 25 years,
declined to compare his record to Booker’s. He said the governor
was wrong not to set the special election concurrent with his
own contest on Nov. 5.  Christie, 50, a Republican seeking a second term, told
reporters today in Trenton that the shortened campaign still
will leave the candidates enough time to vet issues, and
declined to speculate on the outcome.  “We don’t have anybody who’s come out of the woodwork to
run here,” Christie said in his Trenton office earlier today,
before Eck had submitted signatures. “The people who’ve
announced they’re running thus far are all people who are pretty
well-known quantities in this state. So there’s plenty of
time.”  Lautenberg, 89, had said in February that he wouldn’t seek
a sixth term in 2014. He died of complications from viral
pneumonia. Booker, a rising star in the  Democratic party , had
said in December that he was exploring a run for Lautenberg’s
seat instead of challenging Christie’s re-election bid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  