-- Pao de Acucar Chases B2W With Strategy Echoing Amazon’s
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2013-06-10T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/pao-de-acucar-chases-b2w-with-strategy-echoing-amazon-s.html
Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao de Acucar , Brazil’s biggest grocery chain, is
accelerating efforts to overtake  B2W Cia. Digital (BTOW3)  as the
country’s largest online retailer.  With a new Web platform echoing  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s, Pao de
Acucar expects a fivefold boost in online product offerings by
the end of 2014, Chief Executive Officer Eneas Pestana said in
an interview. The Sao Paulo-based company also seeks to triple
revenue at its wholesale unit by 2016 through expansion into
more states, he said.  Online sales and wholesale stores are growth opportunities
for a company that Brazilian industry trade group Abras says
already controls 37 percent of the supermarket and hypermarket
segment. Those channels also would help diversify Pao de
Acucar’s customer base as inflation and a slowing economy
threaten to sap consumer spending.  “I have always been optimistic about Brazil,” Pestana
said on June 6 at Bloomberg’s offices in Sao Paulo. “We are
accelerating our market share in wholesale, and we plan to be
the leader in the online retail market by a wide margin.”  Pao de Acucar shares  rose  16 percent this year through June
7, trouncing the 15 percent decline in Brazil’s Ibovespa index.
It’s also outpacing the second- and third-place food retailers
in Brazil, with French supermarket operator  Carrefour SA (CA)  up 11
percent and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. up 12 percent.  Food, Electronics  Food accounted for 46 percent of Pao de Acucar’s 50.9
billion reais ($23.9 billion) in 2012 sales, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg. Appliances and electronics retailing
generated 38 percent of sales, followed by wholesale stores and
e-commerce. Gross profit was even more heavily weighted to the
two biggest units, with 92 percent between them.  “This company is very resilient,” said Julia Monteiro, a
Rio de Janeiro-based analyst at CGD Securities who rates the
shares as accumulate. “I don’t think in the short term there
will be a huge cut in consumer spending.”  Pao de Acucar’s online retailing push will increase the
number of products to 1 million in 2014 from 200,000 now. In
March, the company unveiled Extra Marketplace, attempting to
mimic the success of Amazon by offering a platform other
retailers can use.  In February, with online sales showing almost no growth,
the company changed its pricing strategy and reaped a 40 percent
gain in March sales from a year earlier, said Pestana, who
wouldn’t give details. The e-commerce business generated 6.7
percent of  2012 sales , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  B2W’s Struggles  Pao de Acucar is chasing Rio de Janeiro-based B2W, which is
pouring 1 billion reais over three years into upgrading
distribution and logistics after failing to provide on-time
deliveries. Customer complaints about B2W spurred Sao Paulo’s
consumer protection agency to temporarily suspend sales last
year. B2W  fell  47 percent this year through June 7.  “We put 28 million reais into our business in 2008, and
that was the last time,” Pestana said of Pao de Acucar’s online
operations. “We have revenue of 4 billion reais and have never
had any complaints.”  A spokeswoman for B2W at publicist In Press Porter Novelli
who wouldn’t give her name declined to comment about the
company’s prospects. Fabio da Silva Abrate, B2W’s investor
relations chief, told analysts in March that the company was
“continually transforming its processes and investing in the
necessary infrastructure” to compete.  Inflation Pressure  Pao de Acucar’s online foray comes as a pickup in inflation
crimps its supermarket business. Same-store sales fell 0.2
percent in the first quarter after correction for inflation,
according to a Pao de Acucar regulatory filing.  Industry sales on the same basis were down 3.8 percent in
April from a year earlier, according to Abras, the trade group.
In May, inflation accelerated to an annual rate of 6.5 percent,
the upper limit of the central bank’s target. That’s important
for retailers such as Pao de Acucar, because consumer spending
made up 62.3 percent of  Brazil ’s gross domestic product in 2012,
the most since 2001, government figures show.  “I’m not going to deny the existence of inflation, there
is price pressure,” CEO Pestana said. “I don’t see any motive
for panic.”  Pao de Acucar identified Brazil’s northeast, the region
that has surpassed the south as the country’s second-largest
consumer market, as a place to expand its wholesale business.
Pestana said that division will expand into 14 states, twice as
many as now.  ‘Niche Market’  “The company saw a niche market and saw that competitors
weren’t doing well, and with the logistics expertise it has, the
company was able to get into the market quickly,” said CGD
Securities’ Monteiro.  Pestana said Pao de Acucar is discounting products at its
newest wholesale outlets to gain market share. In May, sales
rose 39 percent for the wholesale division, according to a
regulatory filing.  The company is entering an industry whose largest operator
is closely held Makro, according to Brazil’s association of
wholesalers, known as Abad.  Makro has 76 stores in Brazil and has been restructuring
since 2010 to “prepare for sustainable long-term growth,” a
spokeswoman for the company at FSB Comunicacoes said in response
to a request for comment on the challenge from Pao de Acucar.
“Our focus has been to increase market share and reinforce our
wholesale operations by increasing the average amount spent by
professional customers in our database.”  Luiz Carlos Cesta, an equity analyst at Banco Votorantim SA
in Sao Paulo who rates the shares as market perform, said Pao de
Acucar is positioned to weather a slower economy and higher
consumer prices. He is among 10 analysts in a Bloomberg survey
with a rating of hold or equivalent, compared with 12 buys.  “This is a relatively stable business with little
volatility mainly because we are talking about basic
necessities,” Cesta said in a telephone interview. “Even with
inflation, people don’t stop buying these products.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net ;
Fabiola Moura in Sao Paulo at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  