-- Pentagon Five-Year Cybersecurity Plan Seeks $23 Billion
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-06-10T17:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/pentagon-five-year-cybersecurity-plan-seeks-23-billion.html
A Pentagon cybersecurity budget
outline calls for spending almost $23 billion through fiscal
2018, as efforts are expanded on initiatives from protecting
 computer networks  to developing offensive capabilities.  The Defense Department already has proposed $4.65 billion
for such programs in the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, an 18
percent increase from the $3.94 billion budgeted this year. The
five-year “cyber-expense” budget obtained by  Bloomberg News 
calls for spending to remain elevated from past levels.  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel this month cited “the
growing threat of cyber-intrusions, some of which appear to be
tied to the Chinese government and military.” His predecessor,
 Leon Panetta , said last year that “a cyber-attack perpetrated
by nation states or violent extremist groups could be as
destructive as the terrorist attack of 9/11.”  The budget outline shows “increased investment will be
made in protecting critical infrastructures,” cyber-attack
capabilities “for use against our adversaries and enhancing
overall security of DoD networks and systems,”  Harry Raduege ,
chairman of Deloitte LLP’s Center for Cyber Innovation in
 Washington , said in a statement.  Increased U.S. spending on computer security may benefit
defense contractors, including  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  and  Northrop Grumman
Corp. (NOC) , in a time when other Pentagon spending is declining,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government.  Yearly Funding  The Pentagon plans to request $4.72 billion in fiscal 2015,
declining to $4.61 billion in 2016 and $4.45 billion the next
year, then rising to $4.53 billion in 2018, according to the
budget document.  It calls for requesting $9.3 billion through 2018 for
information-assurance systems aimed at blocking hackers and
preventing disruptions of information on Pentagon computers, and
$8.9 billion for cyber-operations, which include both defensive
and offensive capabilities.  Among national-security documents disclosed last week, the
U.K.-based  Guardian newspaper  reported that President  Barack
Obama  issued a directive in October saying “Offensive Cyber
Effects Operations” can provide “unique and unconventional
capabilities to advance U.S. national objectives around the
world with little or no warning to the adversary or target and
with potential effects ranging from subtle to severely
damaging.”  ‘Favorable Balance’  Developing and sustaining such offensive capabilities “may
require considerable time and effort if access and tools for a
specific target do not already exist,” according to the
directive. It says the government should identify targets of
national importantance that “can offer a favorable balance of
effectiveness and risk.”  In the Air Force’s budget proposal for the coming fiscal
year, the service said funds for “offensive cyberspace
operations” are “needed to exploit enemy networks, telephony,
integrated air defense systems, electronic warfare operations
and command and control systems.”  Air Force  documents indicate the service will use existing
Governmentwide Acquisition Contracts, such as those known as
Alliant and Encore II, to buy “a wide range of commercially
available products and services that should be able to meet many
requirements related to offensive cyberspace operations.”  ‘Integrate Cyber’  The U.S. Cyber Command’s headquarters is projected to
receive $405 million in fiscal 2015, up from $236 million
proposed for 2014 and $182 million provided this year. The
command would receive as much as $1.28 billion through 2018.  Army General Keith Alexander, who leads the Cyber Command,
told the House Armed Services Committee in March that his
organization is working to change doctrine and training so that
combat commanders “‘can think, plan and integrate cyber’’ just
as they would the use of air, land and sea weapons.  The command said that in fiscal 2014 it will be developing
specific offensive and defensive capabilities for the U.S.
Pacific and Central commands, which cover  China  and  Iran .  The Pentagon said in its latest annual report on China’s
military that it has targeted U.S. government computers with
intrusions seeking sensitive data.  Iran’s developing ability to mount computer attacks will
make it ‘‘a force to be reckoned with,” General William Shelton, the head of the U.S. Air Force Space Command, told
reporters in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  