-- Perry Plans Ad Campaign to Lure New York Business to Texas
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-10T19:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/perry-plans-advertisements-to-lure-new-york-businesses-to-texas.html
Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  plans to
travel to  New York  and  Connecticut  and to spend $1 million on a
television-advertising campaign to lure businesses to the Lone
Star State.  The visit starting June 16 follows previous excursions to
California and Illinois, where Perry also urged business owners
to relocate to the second-most-populous state.  Ads featuring Texans praising their home, sponsored by a
public-private organization controlled by the governor, will run
on ESPN, CNN and other channels in New York and Connecticut for
a week, according to a statement today from Perry’s office.  Perry, 63, who ran unsuccessfully for the Republican
presidential nomination in 2012, has emphasized Texas’s low
taxes, limited regulation and legal environment in his
recruitment efforts. He told reporters today in Austin that he
expected his trip would upset officials in New York and
Connecticut.  “If you are the legislators or the governor or the mayor
who are the reason for those regulations or taxes or lawsuits,
then I’m suspecting there’s probably going to be a little push
back,” Perry said.  Indeed, Andrew Doba, a spokesman for Connecticut’s
Democratic Governor Dannel Malloy, said an e-mail that Perry’s
efforts are “lame publicity stunts.”  Connecticut has attracted companies from  Kentucky ,
Pennsylvania and elsewhere as it added more than 26,000 private-sector jobs since Malloy took office in 2011, Doba said.  Matt Wing, a spokesman for New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo ,
a Democrat, didn’t respond to an e-mail requesting comment on
the Perry campaign.  Cuomo’s Ads  Cuomo has spent more than $50 million of taxpayer funds on
national advertising that began last year and that he said is
meant to change the impression of the Empire State as high tax
and unfriendly to businesses.  Perry plans to meet with leaders of firearms,
pharmaceuticals and financial services companies, said Perry’s
spokeswoman, Lucy Nashed, declining to specify which ones.  Perry chose the Northeast states because “their tax
climate is burdensome for businesses and families,” Nashed
said.  In a website promoting the campaign, Perry touted Texas’
lower unemployment, wages, unionization and worker-compensation
benefits compared with the two states.  The recruiting trip shows Perry’s desire for publicity as
he considers whether to seek a fourth term as governor or run
for president again, said Cal Jillson, a political science
professor at  Southern Methodist University  in  Dallas .  “A governor popping up for a weekend and running
commercials isn’t going to prompt a serious business to
relocate,” Jillson said.  California Governor  Jerry Brown , the Democrat who runs the
most populous state, this year called Perry’s $24,000 radio ad
buy in that state “barely a fart.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  