-- TPG’s Schifter Joins Board of Post-Merger American Air
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-06-10T20:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/tpg-s-schifter-joins-board-of-post-merger-american-air.html
TPG Capital’s Richard Schifter is
among five investment-oriented directors who will serve on the
board of the reconstituted American Airlines after the merger of
 US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)   Four of those five, including Schifter and  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  senior adviser James Albaugh, were picked by the
committee representing creditors in Fort Worth, Texas-based
AMR’s bankruptcy, while Chartwell Capital Inc. President Richard Kraemer is a carryover from the US Airways board. The combined
company’s directors were announced in a statement today.  US Airways Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker also
cemented his control over the post-merger airline by keeping his
current  management  team largely in place, according to a
separate statement. The merger, slated to close next quarter,
will create the world’s largest airline by passenger traffic.  Private-equity and hedge fund experience means directors
are “going to focus on the bottom line for shareholders, and
the airline business has historically never made much money,”
said Dennis McCuistion, executive director of the Institute for
Excellence in Corporate Governance at the University of Texas at
 Dallas . “Nowadays you need a mix” of directors with industry
knowledge and outsiders.  US Airways rose 1.4 percent to $17.26 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 28 percent this year, as the
Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index has advanced 42 percent.  The 12-member board also will include Michael J. Embler,
49, former chief investment officer at Franklin Resources Inc.’s
Franklin Mutual Advisers, and Jeffrey D. Benjamin, 51, a senior
adviser to Cyrus Capital Partners LP and a consultant to Apollo
Global Management LLC.  Former Posts  Schifter, 60, a partner at David Bonderman’s TPG Capital,
will resign as a director at Republic Airways Holdings Inc.
before joining the American board. He previously served on the
US Airways board. Albaugh, 63, is a former president of Boeing
Commercial Airplanes.  John T. Cahill, 56, executive chairman of Kraft Foods Group
Inc., will be the lead independent director. The board also
includes Parker, 51, and AMR CEO Tom Horton, 52.  The management shuffle follows the course Parker took in
2005, when he led America West Holdings Corp. in a merger with
US Airways’ predecessor and kept most of his top lieutenants. It
sweeps out Horton’s top executives, who were in place when AMR
filed for bankruptcy in November 2011.  US Airways President Scott Kirby, Chief Financial Officer
Derek Kerr and Chief Operating Officer Robert Isom will retain
those offices at the new American, the companies said today.  ‘Move Forward’  “It is time to move forward, and this announcement is a
key step on the path,” Parker said in a message to employees
about the executives.  Virasb Vahidi, American’s chief commercial officer, will
depart, along with CFO Bella Goren and Jim Ream, senior vice
president for operations.  Beverly Goulet, who was named American’s chief
restructuring officer for the bankruptcy and later was made
chief integration officer for the merger, will stay at the
combined carrier in the integration role.  Horton will be chairman of the merged US Airways and
American until the combined airline’s first shareholder meeting.
Horton became AMR’s CEO in 2011 when Gerard Arpey resigned as
that company prepared to file for bankruptcy protection.  Holdover Executives  Elise Eberwein, US Airways executive vice president for
people and culture, and Steve Johnson, executive vice president
for corporate affairs, will keep those titles at the merged
carrier.  From the current American, Wil Ris will stay as senior vice
president for government affairs and Maya Leibman will remain
chief information officer.  Dan Garton will give up his spot as CEO of American Eagle,
AMR’s regional carrier, later this year, the airlines said.  The two companies agreed in February to combine in an
$11 billion all-stock merger. American’s bankruptcy creditors
will own 72 percent of the combined airline, and shareholders of
Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways will hold 28 percent.  The combined carrier will keep the American name and Fort
Worth headquarters, the airlines have said. It will pass  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  to become the world’s largest carrier.  The merged airline board will include current AMR directors
Alberto Ibarguen, 69, CEO of the John S. and James L. Knight
Foundation; and Ray Robinson, 65, chairman of Citizens Trust
Bank of Atlanta and a former AT&T Corp. executive.  US Airways directors who will remain on the new board are
Kraemer, 69; Matthew J. Hart, 61, former Hilton Hotels Corp.
president; and Denise M. O’Leary, 55, a former general partner
in Menlo Ventures, a venture capital firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  