-- Philadelphia Prepares to Dismiss Teachers Amid Budget Shortfall
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-06-10T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/philadelphia-prepares-to-dismiss-teachers-amid-budget-shortfall.html
Philadelphia’s school district, the
nation’s eighth-largest, is sending notices to 3,783 teachers,
aides and other employees -- 19 percent of its workforce -- that
they may be fired July 1 because of a budget shortfall.  The district faces a $304 million deficit in its $2.35
billion budget, which it says is due to state cuts and rising
expenses, documents show. It has requested $180 million from the
city and  Pennsylvania  and seeks $133 million from labor-contract
savings to prevent reductions in areas from arts to nurses.  “I am doing everything in my power to prevent this budget
from becoming a reality on July 1,” said Superintendent William
Hite Jr. in a statement June 7. “Our current circumstances are
deeply disheartening.”  Philadelphia is among large urban districts facing
shortfalls as states have reduced spending on traditional public
schools and more students move to  charter schools . Chicago
officials last month voted to consolidate 50 of its 681 schools,
and  Detroit  shuttered facilities as its population declined.  Pennsylvania lawmakers are considering giving Philadelphia
permission to impose a tax on cigarettes of $2 per pack and
boosting a levy on alcoholic drinks to 15 percent from 10
percent to raise money for schools. The proposal was put forward
by Mayor Michael Nutter, and sponsored in the legislature by
state Senator Anthony H. Williams of Philadelphia, both
Democrats.  ‘Extraordinary Action’  Nutter also said the city would increase tax collection so
that $28 million would flow to schools for the fiscal year
beginning in July, compared with $15 million from the levies
this year. The package would generate $95 million for the
district’s next fiscal year and more than $130 million annually
through 2018, the mayor said.  In October, Philadelphia officials resorted to selling $300
million in debt to fill a budget gap, the second time in a
decade. Thomas Knudsen, at that time the chief recovery officer,
called borrowing to meet basic obligations an “extraordinary
action” that officials couldn’t repeat in the next five years.  Last year, city schools received about $300 million less in
state aid, according to the district budget statement. That
included funding for students who left for charter schools.  Those who may be dismissed include 127 assistant
principals, 676 teachers, 283 counselors, 1,202 aides, 307
secretaries, and 769 support-services assistants, according to
Hite’s statement. Art and music programs and athletics would be
cut.  Philadelphia Federation of Teachers president  Jerry Jordan 
called the district’s plans “unconscionable” and “immoral.”  “It’s time to stop balancing the budget on the backs of
school employees and students,” Jordan said in a  statement .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  