-- Pimco Wary on Junk Debt in Asia as Slowdown Hurts Profits
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-06-11T08:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/pimco-wary-on-asia-junk-debt-as-slowdown-hurts-company-profits.html
Investors should be wary of high-yield borrowers as slowing growth in  Asia  threatens
profitability, according to Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s biggest fixed-income fund.  Companies in Asia outside  Japan  almost tripled junk bond
sales to $19.2 billion this year compared with $6.85 billion
during the same period in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
 China’s economy  will slow to average 6 percent to 7.5 percent
annual expansion during the next five years from 9 percent the
past five, weighing on the region’s growth, according to a
report from Newport Beach, California-based Pimco.  “The slow-growth landscape favors higher-quality credits
and warrants caution on higher yielding names that could become
impaired in an environment where profits will be challenged,”
Tokyo-based Tomoya Masanao, the head of portfolio management for
Japan, wrote in the report due for release today. “The emphasis
should move away from risk assets that have benefited purely
from the central bank liquidity wave in which valuations have
become detached from fundamentals.”  Investors redeemed more than $6 billion from high-yield
bond funds in the week to June 5 and fixed-income funds posted
their biggest weekly outflows on record amid speculation the
 Federal Reserve  may slow asset purchases, which have fueled
flows into  emerging markets , data from EPFR Global show.  Long Treasuries  Treasuries are “the place to be,”  Bill Gross , Pimco’s co-chief investment officer, said June 6, after raising holdings of
 U.S. government debt  in his  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  to 39
percent as of April 30, the highest level since July 2010. Gross
predicted the three-decade  bull market  in bonds probably ended
at the end of April.  Yields on speculative-grade notes from companies in
emerging markets in Asia fell to an all-time low of 6.38 percent
last month, helping to boost issuance, before surging to 7.51
percent as of June 10, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  High-yield bonds, also known as non-investment grade,
speculative-grade or junk, hold ratings lower than BBB- from
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings Ltd., or the equivalent Baa3
from Moody’s Investors Service.  Risk Surges  The cost of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds in Asia
against non-payment surged to the highest since September today,
according to traders of credit-default swaps.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan advanced 15 basis points to 142 basis
points as of 4:08 p.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show. The gauge, which increased 9 basis points
last month, is set for its highest close since Sept. 26 and its
biggest one-day gain since Sept. 20, according to data provider
CMA.  The  Bank of Japan  today refrained from extending the length
of loans it uses to smooth bond market volatility, according to
a policy statement in  Tokyo . Twenty of 23 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey forecast the BOJ would approve loans of
two years or longer, or said that such a move was possible.  “The Bank of Japan is finally joining the hyperactive
monetary policy experiment,” Masanao said. “Initial responses
in asset markets have been quite positive and the near-term
growth outlook has become hopeful. However the sustainability of
these gains will depend on the implementation of structural
policy reforms.”  Limits Reached  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , the second-largest issuer of junk notes
in the U.S. currency in Asia this year, missed analyst estimates
last quarter as net income plunged 49 percent after a weaker
rupee raised interest payments and prices for  network equipment .  Companies from China and Hong Kong have dominated sales,
accounting for 59 percent of the region’s dollar-denominated
junk bonds since Dec. 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The amount of high-yield debt in the region outstanding and
rated by Moody’s totals about $58 billion versus about $40
billion as at the end of December, the ratings company said in
the fifth edition of its Asian High-Yield Compendium, released
today. Moody’s rates 126 junk borrowers in 28 industry groupings
across 14 countries in Asia, including  Australia .  Net exports and investment that previously fueled China’s
growth are reaching their limits, according to Pimco’s report.  “Prospects for export-led growth are inhibited by China’s
large size in a global marketplace that remains deficient in
aggregate demand due to high indebtedness in the developed
world,” Ramin Toloui, Pimco’s global co-head of emerging-markets  portfolio management , said in the report. “Investment
cannot play its previous role in driving growth because it’s
already risen to almost 50 percent of gross domestic product, up
from 35 percent in 2000.”  ‘New Normal’  Lending in China is also having less of an impact, with
each $1 of new credit generating about 20 cents on average of
GDP, versus 60 cents before the financial crisis, according to
the report.  “China’s economy needs to shift to greater reliance on
household demand,” Toloui said. “Latent demand for not only
 consumer goods  but also services such as health care is likely
enormous. However turning that potential into reality requires
changes in economic policy that are wide-ranging and
difficult.”  In Australia, a “new normal” will arrive, characterized
by slower growth as the intensity of Chinese policy stimulus
subsides and expansion outside of the South Pacific nation’s
mining sector remains subdued.  “This economic backdrop implies a ‘new neutral’ level for
policy rates, which we believe should be lowered from 5.5
percent to about 3 percent, which takes into account higher end-borrowing rates, an elevated Australian dollar and lower
potential growth rates,”  Robert Mead , Pimco’s head of portfolio
management in Australia said.  As such, Australian  government bonds  should be “a
relatively attractive asset for high incomes and capital gain
potential,” according to Pimco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  