-- Plastic Heir Claims $4 Billion of Assets Misappropriated
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2013-06-10T04:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/plastic-heir-claims-4-billion-of-assets-misappropriated.html
Winston Wong, the eldest son and
estate administrator of deceased  Taiwan  petrochemicals tycoon
Wang Yung-ching, sued two Hong Kong companies, claiming they
misappropriated $4 billion in assets.  Hong Kong’s  High Court  on May 2 named Wong as administrator
of his father’s estate. Wong filed a lawsuit today against Jao
Chien Fang and Chang Pen-yuan, formerly his father’s financial
advisers, as well as Hua Yang Investment (H.K.) Ltd. and Winson
International Investments Ltd. He accused the defendants of
acting dishonestly to misappropriate his father’s assets, and is
seeking their return plus interest.  “This is an important and humbling moment as I stand in my
father’s shoes as administrator and continue the efforts to
identify and recover everything that should have been declared
in his estate,” Wong said in a statement today.  Today’s suit adds to litigation that Wong has filed in the
U.S., Taiwan, Bermuda and Hong Kong over Wang’s holdings since
his death in 2008 at the age of 91. The $4 billion held in Hong
Kong includes  power plants  in  China  and real estate, with Wong
estimating the total value of his late father’s assets at about
$18 billion.  Simon Clarke , a lawyer who represented Hua Yang Investment
and Winson International, didn’t immediately respond to a phone
request for comment.  Plastics Businesses  Wang founded Formosa Plastics Group in 1954. The group,
Taiwan’s biggest diversified industrial company, had pretax
profit of NT$43.5 billion ($1.5 billion) in 2012 and assets
valued at about $100 billion based on current exchange rates,
according to figures on its  website . Formosa has factories in
China, Indonesia, Vietnam, the U.S. and Taiwan, and its products
include polyvinyl chloride, more commonly known as PVC,
semiconductors, textiles and detergents.  Wong helped found Taiwan-listed  Nanya Technology Corp. (2408) , a
unit of Formosa, and was its chairman until 1995.  The case is Dr. Wong, Wen-Young and Hua Yang Investment
(H.K.) Limited, Winson International Investments Ltd., Jao Chien
Fang, Chang Pen-yuan, HCA1017/2013 in the  Hong Kong  Court of
First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Taipei at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Schneider at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net  