-- Platts’ Montepeque Says EU Manipulation Probe Needs Transparency
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i   a n d   W i n n i e   Z h u
-- 2013-06-10T12:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/platts-montepeque-says-eu-manipulation-probe-needs-transparency.html
Jorge Montepeque, global director of
market reporting at oil-pricing and news agency Platts, comments
on the need for clarity in a European Union investigation into
possible oil-price manipulation. He spoke while attending the
17th Asia Oil & Gas Conference in Kuala Lumpur,  Malaysia , today.  On the European Commission’s oil-price investigation:  “If the objective of the investigation is transparency,
then we will say why? Because it’s already transparent. So then
you want to start thinking it has to be something else. But we
haven’t been told what it is. We haven’t heard from anyone what
it is. There are no details. Absolutely no details.”  “The question becomes, many times, is the price right? The
price is right. It’s very visible, it’s very transparent. If you
want to have a discussion, if you’re talking about one cent here
or a cent there, but the price is really, really very open.
However, this doesn’t stop many agencies or regulators becoming
terribly concerned, sometimes to launch investigations that
nobody is very clear about what they are looking for.”  “And I hope very much that in those investigations they
can share with us very transparently what is it that they are
looking for and who precisely that they are looking at. Because
we need as much transparency in government action as we need
transparency in the actions by the industry.”  On a proposed EU price-reporting law:  “That law as proposed is extra-territorial, so it will
have a worldwide grip in the manner that Dodd-Frank did. It’s
fairly ambitious. It’s fairly intrusive. It aims to deem that a
generator of a benchmark would be made administrator and would
have to be regulated. A supplier of data would be deemed
contributor and would be regulated. And the benchmark itself and
its use would also be regulated. So it’s very intrusive, very
extensive.”  Consumers and trading participants in all commodity markets
should “have a proper read and work through your government
channels to determine if that’s an environment you want to
operate under.”  On regulating media that report on oil markets:  “The question assumes there is a manipulation. One should
prove there is a manipulation first and then try to find a
solution for the problem if there is one.”  “Should the press be regulated if there is something wrong
going on somewhere? I would think the role of press is actually
to open up and to speak freely, without any fear of retribution
if there is something going on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net ;
Winnie Zhu in Kuala Lumpur at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  