-- Prince Philip Will Stay Away From Royal Duties for Two Months
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-06-10T17:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/prince-philip-will-stay-away-from-royal-duties-for-two-months.html
Queen Elizabeth II’s husband, Prince Philip, is expected not to undertake any royal duties in order
to convalesce after undergoing exploratory surgery in a London
hospital, Buckingham Palace said.  The prince, also known by his official title as the Duke of
Edinburgh, turned 92 today and has been suffering increasing
health problems in the past 18 months. He was taken on June 6 to
the  London Clinic , a private hospital, for what Buckingham
Palace said was a planned admittance after abdominal tests.  “His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh is progressing
according to plans at this early stage,” Buckingham Palace said
in an e-mailed statement today. “He is comfortable and in good
spirits. He will remain in hospital for up to two weeks, and it
is expected he will then be taking a period of convalescence of
approximately two months.”  The duke had about 30 engagements over a similar two-month
period in summer last year, according to the Court Circular on
the royal family’s  website .  The duke spent five nights in a Scottish hospital in August
last year with a bladder infection, a recurrence of a complaint
that first required treatment in June 2012 during events to mark
60 years since the queen’s accession to the throne. The duke
also had a coronary stent inserted for a blocked artery in
December 2011 after suffering chest pains, causing him to miss
the royal family’s Christmas celebrations. Buckingham Palace has
given no further details of the prince’s current ailment.  Garden Party  The prince began to scale back his royal engagements when
he turned 90. Still, he attended a garden party given by the
queen, 87, at Buckingham Palace on June 6 before going into the
hospital, and television pictures showed him smiling and shaking
hands with guests.  The London Clinic, located on Harley Street in the
capital’s West End, describes itself as one of the U.K.’s
largest private hospitals, with more than 300 consultant
surgeons and physicians.  In 2009, Philip became the U.K.’s longest-serving royal
consort, surpassing the 57-year, 70-day record set by Queen
 Charlotte , wife of King George III, in the 18th and early 19th
centuries.  Queen Elizabeth described Philip on their golden wedding
anniversary in 1997 as “my strength and stay all these years.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  