-- Prostate Cancer Patients May Prolong Lives With Healthy Fats
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-06-10T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/prostate-cancer-patients-may-prolong-lives-with-healthy-fats.html
Men with early stage  prostate cancer 
may live longer if they eat a diet rich in heart-healthy nuts,
vegetable oils, seeds and avocados, researchers said.  Their analysis of 4,577 men found those who reported eating
vegetable fats were less likely to develop fatal tumors or die
from other causes than those with diets high in animal fats and
carbohydrates. The study, published in  JAMA Internal Medicine ,
is the first to analyze fat consumption after diagnosis and the
risk of death.  There are several possible explanations for why healthy
fats may slow the progression of prostate cancer and boost
survival, said lead researcher Erin Richman, a post-doctoral
scholar at the University of  California , San Francisco. Nuts and
vegetable oils increase levels of  antioxidants , which protect
against cell damage, and reduce inflammation and oxidative
stress that’s related to aging, she said.  “Based on this study, combined with extensive literature
on cardiovascular disease, it’s appropriate to recommend that
men with prostate cancer consume a heart healthy diet with
unsaturated fats that comes from nuts, healthy oils like olive
and canola, seeds and avocados,” she said. “I don’t think we
need more research to make the recommendation, though we do need
it to better understand the biology of prostate cancer.”  Unsaturated fats are heart healthy, and previous research
shows they also help patients with advanced prostate cancer.  Common Tumor  While one in six men will be  diagnosed  with prostate
cancer, making it the most common type of tumor, most don’t die
from it. There are currently 2.5 million men living in the U.S.
with the cancer today, according to the American Cancer Society.  The researchers examined men participating in the Health
Professionals Follow-up Study who were diagnosed with prostate
tumors between 1986 and 2010. During the quarter-century of
research, 1,064 men died, mainly from heart disease.  Those who reported eating an additional serving of oil-based dressing each day were 29 percent less likely to die from
prostate cancer, with a 13 percent lower risk of dying from any
causes. A daily serving of nuts cut prostate cancer death by 18
percent and death from any cause by 11 percent.  The research isn’t a randomized trial and doesn’t
conclusively prove that men with early stage prostate cancer can
reduce their risk of dying by changing their diet, wrote Stephen
Freedland, from  Duke University Medical Center  in Durham, in an
editorial. The only proven link to death from prostate cancer is
obesity, he said.  “Avoiding obesity is essential,” he wrote. “Exactly how
this should be done remains unclear.”  The data suggest that substituting healthy foods such as
vegetable fats for unhealthy foods, such as carbohydrates may
have a benefit, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  