-- Rain Sees Profit Growing Slower as Aluminum Stagnates
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e
-- 2013-06-10T18:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/rain-sees-profit-growing-slower-as-aluminum-stagnates.html
Rain Commodities Ltd. (RCOL) , the world’s
second-largest producer of calcined petroleum coke used to make
aluminum, will miss its own profit forecast as a slide in prices
of the metal prompts smelters to scale back output.  An aluminum supply glut and falling demand in China are
causing many producers to shut down, hurting Rain Commodities,
Chief Financial Officer T. Srinivasa Rao said in an interview.
The Hyderabad, India-based company will no longer be able to
meet its goal of doubling net income by the end of 2013, and
instead will take two more years, he said.  The light weight metal used to make aircraft and beverage
cans has declined 47 percent in the past five years, making it
the third-worst performer on the UBS Bloomberg CMCI index of
commodities. Aluminum Corp. of China, the country’s biggest
producer, said last week it will halt some production after
United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest, cut output by 4 percent
in the first quarter as oversupply squeezed margins.  “At current prices, 75 percent of the smelters in the
world would be incurring a loss,” Rao said. “Because of the
global slowdown, we are seeing a lower performance.”  Rain Commodities  shares  fell 1.4 percent to 38.80 rupees
yesterday in Mumbai, trimming gains in the past 12 months to 3.7
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark
 S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  has advanced 16 percent in the same period.  Belgian Purchase  Rao had said in an interview in October that net income by
the end of 2013 was set to be double the 6.64 billion rupees
($114 million) reported in 2011 after its U.S. unit agreed to
pay 702 million euros for Ruetgers NV, a Belgian chemicals
maker, including its debt. The median estimate of three analysts
in a Bloomberg survey show profit this year may be 5.9 billion
rupees.  Aluminum for delivery in three months traded at $1,932.50 a
ton on the London Metal Exchange as of 1:35 p.m. local time
yesterday after falling 8 percent in the quarter ended March 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate needs to
exceed $2,300 for metal producers to make money and help revive
demand for calcined petroleum coke, Rao said.  Prices of the metal may remain capped as output globally,
excluding  China , is likely to outpace demand in these markets,
Kenneth Hoffman, a senior metals analyst with Bloomberg
Industries said in a note in April. A smaller surplus in the
western world has not been enough to counterbalance the erosion
of demand as a result of subdued economic growth in the
developed economies, according to the report. Excess inventory
narrowed to 936,000 tons last year from 4.13 million metric tons
in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic Instability  “China is slowing down and there’s economic uncertainty
surrounding Europe, another large market,” said Vibhu Ratandhara, a vice president at Bonanza Commodities Brokers Pvt.
in Mumbai. “The surplus has declined, but the prices have
stalled, showing lack of demand.”  Export growth in China, the world’s second-biggest economy,
slowed to a 10-month low in May, factory output rose a less-than-forecast 9.2 percent from a year earlier, while inflation
fell to a 15-month low, signaling weaker global and domestic
consumption. The 17-nation, euro-area economy is in its longest
recession since the common currency started trading in 1999.
 Europe  accounts for 30 percent of Rain’s revenue.  “The instability in the economy worldwide is our biggest
concern,” Rao said. “Europe is a big worry.”  ‘Not Enough’  Chalco, as the Beijing-based Aluminum Corp. of China is
known, said on June 5 that it will temporarily shut down about
380,000 tons of electrolytic aluminum capacity and added it will
implement flexible output at some production lines. Rusal said
in May that cuts announced by producers are “still not enough”
given low prices and large stockpiles.  A weak global recovery still won’t wipe out demand for
aluminum as consumption may still grow at 5 percent to 7
percent, helping Rain Commodities, said Milan Wadkar, an analyst
at Indsec Securities and Finance Ltd. in Mumbai, who recommends
buying the stock with a one-year target price of 53 rupees.  “There is no substitute for what these guys are producing
unless technology changes,” he said. “There was only a handful
of players in this market. With Rain being the second-largest,
it gives them tremendous pricing power even in a downturn.”  Ruetgers, which was bought by Rain CII Carbon LLC last
year, is spending $30 million on a plant in  Russia  along with
its partner  OAO Severstal (SVST)  to increase coal tar distillation
capacity by 30 percent, Rao said. Rain raised $400 million and
210 million euros through high-yield bonds to fund the
acquisition.  Pitch Products  The expansion and a global economic recovery that will lift
aluminum consumption will help boost Rain Commodities profit in
2015, Rao said.  Ruetgers distills coal tar to make pitch products that are
blended with calcined petroleum coke and pressed into anodes,
which are baked in kilns for 17 days at a temperature of 1,250
degrees Celsius (2,282 degrees Fahrenheit) to produce aluminum,
according to Aluminium Bahrain’s  website . The anodes are
replaced about every 28 days.  Rain, which also makes Priya Cement in  India , has a total
capacity to produce 2.4 million tons of calcined petroleum coke
or about 8 percent of global output, according to the company’s
website. N. Jagan Mohan Reddy, a graduate from  Purdue
University , formed Rain Calcining Ltd. in 1989, which was
 combined  with Rain Commodities and Priyadarshani Cements Ltd. in
2004, according to the Business Standard newspaper.  The company is working toward increasing net cash
generation to as much as $150 million as demand improves, from
$80 million now, and plans to use internal accruals of as much
as $500 million in four years to cut debt from $1.3 billion, Rao
said.  “If one is looking to invest in the stock for six to eight
months, one might not get the value asked for,” said Rohit Agarwal, an analyst at SPA Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “The
prospects are good over a two-year period as aluminum demand
will be good once the global markets recover. These guys will be
in a good position to benefit from that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at   aghosh@bloomberg.net  