-- Travelers to Buy E-L’s Dominion of Canada for $1.1 Billion
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-06-10T20:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/travelers-to-buy-e-l-s-dominion-of-canada-for-1-1-billion-1-.html
Travelers Cos. (TRV) , the lone property
insurer in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , agreed to buy
Dominion of  Canada  General Insurance Co. from E-L Financial
Corp. for about $1.1 billion in cash.  Dominion will be combined with Travelers’ operations in
Canada and have headquarters in Toronto, the New York-based
buyer said today in a statement. The deal is expected to be
completed in the fourth quarter, according to the statement.  “We view Dominion as a turnaround story,” Barclays Plc
analysts led by  Jay Gelb  said in a note to clients today, citing
underwriting losses in the past five years and pressure on the
operation selling auto coverage. “Our sense is Travelers would
have been better off repurchasing more of its own stock.” Gelb
has an overweight rating on the buyer.  Travelers, led by Chief Executive Officer Jay Fishman, 60,
has been seeking growth outside the U.S. The insurer in 2010
struck a deal to take a stake in  Brazil ’s J. Malucelli
Participacoes em Seguros e Resseguros SA.  “This transaction is consistent with our strategy to make
thoughtful investments in attractive markets outside the  United
States ,” Fishman said in the statement.  The transaction will be “slightly accretive” to earnings
per share in 2014 and won’t have a significant effect this year,
Travelers said. The insurer said it may fund the deal with a
combination of debt, preferred stock and  internal resources  and
doesn’t expect a large influence on share repurchases.  “Financial flexibility is provided by insurance
subsidiaries that can pay approximately $2 billion of dividends
by the end of 2013 to the holding company without prior
regulatory approval,”  Fitch Ratings  said in a note today
affirming the insurer’s credit ratings.  Murphy, Petropoulos  Travelers slipped 0.2 percent to $83.30 at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York . Toronto-based E-L gained 9.5 percent to C$647.99.  The deal will help E-L narrow its focus to life and health
coverage and savings products such as mutual funds and annuities
through Empire Life Insurance Co. E-L said it hasn’t determined
a plan for the sale proceeds.  Brigid Murphy, CEO and president of Dominion, will hold
both roles at the combined Canadian operation. George
Petropoulos, who leads Travelers Canada, will become vice
chairman of the new organization.  Dominion was founded in 1887 and was initially led by Sir
John A. Macdonald, Canada’s first prime minister. The company
got about 60 percent of its policy sales last year from auto
coverage and the remainder from personal property and commercial
property-casualty policies, according to a  filing . Three-quarters of its sales came from Ontario.  Bond Portfolio  The purchase price is about 27 percent higher than
Dominion’s  shareholder capital  of C$882.6 million ($866.4
million) at the end of March. The E-L unit had net income of
C$40.3 million in 2012, the filing shows. Its investment
portfolio was valued at more than C$2.6 billion as of Dec. 31,
led by fixed-income holdings including Canadian corporate debt
and  government securities .  E-L joins Canada’s Sun Life Financial Inc. in agreeing to
divest operations to U.S. buyers in the past year. Sun Life
struck a deal in December to sell a variable annuity business to
a firm owned by shareholders of New York-based Guggenheim
Partners LLC. Toronto-Dominion Bank and Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce are among firms that expanded after the 2008
financial crisis by acquiring assets from struggling U.S. firms.  Travelers has been among the most stable U.S. property-casualty insurers. Fishman, as CEO of St. Paul Cos., built the
company by engineering a $17.9 billion takeover of Travelers
Property Casualty Corp. in 2004 and kept it profitable through
the financial crisis by shunning mortgage-linked investments
that hobbled rivals such as American International Group Inc.  ‘No Excuses’  More recently, Fishman has said he is focusing on boosting
the prices Travelers charges customers to improve returns. U.S.
property insurers have faced pressure in recent years as low
 interest rates  hurt income from bond portfolios and natural
disasters increase claims costs.  “We are a no-excuses company in a no-excuses industry,”
Fishman said in an April letter to shareholders, explaining his
actions to boost returns. In the middle of 2010, “we embarked
on a deliberate, carefully calibrated strategy of selectively
but actively raising rates.”  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Gowling
Lafleur Henderson LLP provided legal advice to Travelers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  