-- Trayvon Trial Seen as Turning on Shooter’s Credibility
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   B o y d
-- 2013-06-10T20:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/trayvon-martin-trial-seen-as-turning-on-shooter-s-credibility.html
The murder case against George
Zimmerman may turn on whether jurors believe his story that he
shot 17-year-old Trayvon Martin in self-defense after calling
police to report a suspicious person in his gated  Florida 
community.  Jury selection began today in Zimmerman’s trial for second-degree murder in Florida state court in Sanford. Six people will
be picked to consider the government’s evidence that Zimmerman,
a Neighborhood Watch volunteer, profiled, pursued and then
murdered Martin, who was unarmed. He faces possible life
imprisonment if convicted.  Zimmerman, 29, told police he acted in self-defense after
Martin punched him in the face, knocked him to the ground and
threatened to kill him. In the absence of eyewitness accounts
that Zimmerman was the aggressor, prosecutors will use
Zimmerman’s own comments to police to portray him as a vigilante
whose story about what happened the night of the shooting can’t
be trusted, said Marcellus McRae, a former federal prosecutor.  “If the jury walks away thinking the guy wanted to be a
cop and had no business being out there creating the situation
he now wants to rely upon for his defense, that’s problematic,”
McRae, a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP in Los Angeles,
said in an interview.  The Feb. 26, 2012, shooting spurred President  Barack Obama 
to comment that if he had a son, the child would have looked
like Martin. The killing triggered protests in several U.S.
cities after officials initially declined to arrest Zimmerman,
saying it appeared he had acted within the bounds of the state’s
Stand Your Ground law. The statute allows individuals who feel
threatened in a public place to “meet force with force.”  Racial Aspects  The furor centered on the racial aspects of the shooting --
Martin was black while Zimmerman’s father is white and his
mother is Hispanic.  Selecting a jury may take more than a week for a trial that
both sides have said will probably last at least four weeks.  One hundred potential jurors filled out questionnaires
today and then were questioned individually in the courtroom.
They were asked by lawyers for the prosecution and defense what
they knew about the case, what television shows they watched and
how hard it would be to serve on a jury that may be sequestered
for two months. The first two potential jurors questioned were
both women who said they worked night jobs.  Second Person  The second person, a nursing home employee with seven
children, said she moved to the area from Chicago four months
earlier. Under questioning from Zimmerman’s lawyer, Don West,
the woman said she believed Martin was around 12 or 13 based on
pictures she’s seen.  “I remember people selling T-shirts and some little boy
passed away,” the potential juror said.  Prosecutors submitted a list of 85 possible witnesses,
including Zimmerman’s father and Martin’s parents. One witness
is a woman who said she was on the phone with Martin at the time
of his confrontation with Zimmerman. The woman, who prosecutors
haven’t named, said Martin told her he was being followed by a
stranger and was scared.  Brian Tannebaum, a trial attorney who is past president of
the  Florida Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers , said the
prosecution will want to keep the trial as simple as possible in
order to avoid character comparisons between Zimmerman and
Martin.  Two People  “The more you bring out about these two people, the more
it is about these two people and less about the incident,”
Tannebaum said in an interview. “This isn’t about Trayvon
Martin and George Zimmerman, it is a trial about someone with a
gun and someone without a gun.”  Zimmerman said he was driving to a store around 7 p.m. when
he saw Martin walking in the rain through the Retreat at Twin
Lakes gated community in the central-Florida town north of
Orlando, according to recording of a police interview. Zimmerman
called the police to report a suspicious person, describing
Martin as black, acting strangely and perhaps on drugs.  “Are you following him?” a dispatcher asked Zimmerman,
according to the recording.  “Yeah,” Zimmerman responds.  “Ok, we don’t need you to do that,” the dispatcher said.  “Ok,” Zimmerman responded.  During the call, Zimmerman made references to people he
said had committed crimes in his neighborhood and gotten away.  Street Name  Zimmerman later told the police he got out of his vehicle
to look for a street name to give the dispatcher. As he walked
back to his SUV, he said, Martin approached from behind and
asked whether he had a problem. Zimmerman said no. Martin said,
“Well, you do now” and punched Zimmerman in the nose,
according to a recording of Zimmerman’s Feb. 26, 2012, interview
with police.  Zimmerman told officers he fell and that Martin got on top
of him and began slamming his head into the sidewalk. A police
report said Zimmerman was bleeding from the nose and back of the
head. Zimmerman said he began yelling for help “but no one
would help me,” according to the incident report.  Zimmerman told police that Martin covered his nose and
mouth with his hands. Martin then told him “you’re going to die
tonight” and reached for the Kel-Tec PF-9 9 mm pistol that
Zimmerman had holstered around his waist, according to
Zimmerman. Zimmerman said he got to the gun first and fired the
hollow-point bullet into Martin’s chest.  Skittles Bag  At the time of the shooting, Martin was carrying a can of
iced tea, a bag of Skittles and $40 in cash. Police learned that
Martin, who lived in Miami Gardens, Florida, was staying at the
home of his father’s girlfriend in the neighborhood.  Prosecutors may highlight discrepancies in Zimmerman’s
story about the shooting over the course of three days of police
interviews. Those involve Zimmerman backing away from his claim
that Martin circled his vehicle or his explanation that a mental
condition prevented him from remembering the name of a key
street in his subdivision.  A second 911 call in which screams are heard in the
background just before a gunshot might also be used to cast
doubt on Zimmerman’s story. Police initially believed the
screams were Zimmerman’s and questioned him as to how that could
be, given that Zimmerman said Martin was covering his nose and
mouth before the shot was fired.  Prosecutors now contend the screams were Martin’s.  ‘On Skittles’  “What set this kid off?” Chris Serino, the lead Sanford
Police Department investigator, asked Zimmerman during a Feb.
29, 2012, interview. “He’s not on PCP. He’s not on anything.
He’s on Skittles.”  The judge hasn’t decided yet whether prosecutors will be
allowed to have their audio experts tell the jury about their
analysis of the 911 call, which was made by a female resident of
the condominium complex who reported what she said sounded like
a fight outside her apartment.  The prosecution’s audio expert, Alan Reich, concluded that
the man heard screaming in the background of the call was Martin
and that Zimmerman’s voice is also heard saying “these shall
be” in a low pitch “reminiscent of an evangelical preacher or
carnival barker.” Reich’s May 9 report said that Martin’s high-pitched, trembling voice could be heard yelling, “Stop,” just
after “I’m begging you,” moments before Zimmerman shot him.  Audio Analysis  The defense is attempting to use a legal procedure to
challenge Reich and other state audio experts by arguing that
their methods are “widely disputed in the scientific
community.” During three days of hearings, Zimmerman’s lawyers
called other audio experts to the stand, including one who
examined the call for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, to
attack Reich’s report.  “It’s a critical piece of evidence for the prosecution,”
Kendall Coffey,  a former U.S. attorney in Miami, said in a
phone interview. “If the prosecution can convince the jury that
it is the voice of Trayvon Martin, the jury might conclude that
Trayvon Martin is the true victim and George Zimmerman is the
killer.”  The prosecution may also draw attention to the fact that
Zimmerman’s bond was initially revoked for failing to tell the
court about money donated through a legal defense fund.
Zimmerman’s wife, Shellie, was also charged with perjury for
testimony she gave about the family’s finances at the bond
hearing.  “How Zimmerman has postured himself in this case up to
this point before trial may come back to haunt him in this
case,” McRae said in an interview.  Zimmerman opted not to request a hearing on whether
Florida’s 2005 Stand Your Ground law applies in this case,
though his lawyers can still argue during the trial that it
justified his decision to shoot Martin.  Self-Defense  Stand Your Ground allows people to defend themselves with
firearms when they feel threatened, even in public places.
Before the law was adopted, people were expected to retreat from
the threatening situation if it were possible.  Tannebaum said Zimmerman’s following Martin wouldn’t negate
a Stand Your Ground defense.  “In order to use Stand Your Ground, you can’t be engaged
in unlawful activity,” he said. “There is no unlawful activity
by not accepting the advice of a police officer.”  Zimmerman’s lawyers, who submitted a witness list with more
than 200 names, will seek information that backs their client’s
story that Martin was the attacker.  The night of the shooting, Zimmerman told police that while
he was screaming for help, a resident came out of his home and
said he was calling 911. That appears to be supported by an
interview the following day a local TV station did with a
resident. He wouldn’t appear on camera and gave his name only as
John.  Red Sweater  “The guy on bottom who I believe had a red sweater on was
yelling to me ’Help! Help!’” the resident said in the Fox 35
interview. “I told him to stop and I was calling 911.”  Martin was wearing a gray-hooded sweatshirt when he was
shot.  Florida Circuit Judge Debra Nelson has ruled that during
opening statements the jury won’t hear any references to
possible marijuana use by Martin, though she left open the
possibility it could be introduced later in the trial. Traces of
tetrahydrocannabinol, or THC, the active ingredient in
marijuana, were found in Martin’s blood after his death.  “If the prosecution spends undue time trying to portray
Trayvon Martin as flawless, that would create an opening for the
defense,” Coffey, the former Miami U.S. attorney, said.  The case is State of Florida v. Zimmerman, 1712FO4573,
Florida Circuit Court, 18th Judicial Circuit, Seminole County
(Sanford).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  