-- Treasuries Little Changed Before Bullard Speaks Amid QE Debate
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-06-10T13:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/treasuries-are-cheapest-in-almost-two-years-before-retail-sales.html
Treasuries were little changed,
following a six-week decline, before Federal Reserve Bank of St.
Louis President James Bullard speaks today as policy makers
debate whether to reduce the central bank’s stimulus program.  U.S. reports last week showed payrolls rose, while the
jobless rate increased. Standard & Poor’s revised its outlook
for the U.S. to stable from negative. The Treasury is scheduled
to sell $66 billion in notes and bonds this week, beginning with
$32 billion in three-year debt tomorrow. Bullard said last month
he wants to continue the current pace of bond purchases as
slowing inflation remains a concern.  “It’s not about whether the Fed will taper; It is about
when and how much and that’s what the market will be
analyzing,” said Tom Tucci, managing director and head of
Treasury trading in New York at CIBC World Markets Corp. “We’ll
have a bit of a price discovery as we go into supply.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  was little changed at 2.18
percent at 9:02 a.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices, after falling to 2.15 percent earlier. The price
of the 1.75 percent note maturing in May 2023 was at 96 5/32.  U.S.  government securities  yield about 22 basis points less
than bonds in an  index  of Canadian, European and Pacific Rim
debt, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. The spread is
the narrowest since February 2011 as investors demand more to
own U.S. bonds instead of their global peers.  The six-week decline is the longest run of losses since May
2009. The Fed will reduce its bond purchases to $65 billion a
month at its Oct. 29-30 meeting, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists. The central bank
currently buys $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage securities
each month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs.  U.S. Employment  U.S. employers boosted payrolls by 175,000 in May after a
revised 149,000 gain in April, the Labor Department said June 7.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists was for
an increase of 163,000. The jobless rate rose to 7.6 percent
from 7.5 percent.  Tomorrow’s three-year note auction will be followed by $21
billion of  10-year (USGG10YR)  debt the next day and $13 billion of 30-year
bonds on June 13.  A measure of  Treasuries volatility  climbed to the highest
in almost a year last week as investors weighed whether the Fed
will slow its bond-buying program as the economy improves.  Volatility as measured by the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
MOVE index rose to 84.8 on June 6, the highest since June 2012.
The gauge has averaged 62.4 over the past year.  No Inflation  For the first time since 2009, U.S. bond yields are rising
at the same time inflation is slowing, providing a cushion for
investors in Treasuries whether or not the Fed slows the pace of
its debt purchases.  While 10-year yields reached 2.23 percent May 29, the
highest since April 2012, the personal consumption expenditure
deflator, the Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation, rose 0.7
percent in April from a year earlier, the smallest increase
since 2009. The yield gap between Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities, or TIPS, and non-indexed bonds show investors have
cut their expectations for consumer price increases to the
lowest level since July.  After losing 2 percent last month, the most since December
2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch bond indexes,
Treasuries are offering the highest real yields in more than two
years. The last time yields rose while inflation slowed was four
years ago, following President  Barack Obama ’s $787 billion
stimulus plan. Yields later fell.  “We don’t think inflation is a big threat,” Andrew Wickham, head of U.K. and global fixed-income at Insight
Investment Management Ltd., which oversees about $134 billion in
bonds and currencies, said in a June 5 presentation in  London .
“It is very unlikely that we will see any major rise in
interest rates for Treasuries from here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  