-- REITs Scrutiny, China IPOs, India Housing: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-06-10T12:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/reits-scrutiny-china-ipos-india-housing-compliance.html
Iron Mountain Inc. (IRM)  and  Equinix Inc. (EQIX) ,
two technology companies planning to convert to real estate
investment trusts, plunged after saying that the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service is scrutinizing their eligibility.  The IRS is weighing whether to narrow the legal definition
of real estate for the purposes of converting to a trust, the
companies said in separate regulatory filings.  As businesses from data centers to billboard owners make
the switch to REITs -- which are subject to lower taxes and pay
higher dividends than other companies -- the IRS is considering
whether to restrict the types of enterprises that should
qualify. The review means companies with nontraditional real
estate operations -- like Equinix, which runs data centers, and
Iron Mountain, which rents storage space and maintains paper and
electronic records -- may struggle to win approval.  In the case of Iron Mountain, the IRS is questioning
whether its warehouses filled with stacks of servers constitute
real estate, according the company’s filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  “Under current legal standards the company’s racking
structures are ‘real estate’ for REIT purposes,” Iron Mountain
said in the filing. “However, the company can provide no
assurances that the IRS will agree.”  Equinix, for its part, defended its data centers as
eligible for REIT status “based on both existing legal
precedent and the fact that other data center companies
currently operate as REITs,” according to the company’s filing.  Representatives for the IRS didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment.  To  qualify  as a REIT, a company has to invest at least 75
percent of its assets in real estate and obtain 75 percent of
its gross income from rents or interest on mortgages from
financing property, according to the National Association of
Real Estate Investment Trusts, a Washington-based trade group.  Compliance Policy  Hedge Funds Win Collateral Reprieve in SEC Dodd-Frank Shift  Hedge funds and asset managers won relief from Dodd-Frank
Act collateral requirements for credit-default swaps under a
policy shift disclosed June 7 in letters posted on the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s website.  The letters to banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  revised a measure released in March
that called for some clients to put up double the collateral
dealers post for portfolio margin accounts at Atlanta-based
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  The banks instead will be able
collect collateral from clients according to clearinghouse rules
for six months.  During the six-month period, banks must design their own
models for trading with clients that will then need SEC
approval, the agency said in the letters dated today. The SEC
suggested guidelines, including requiring enough margin to
handle a 10-day liquidation with 99 percent confidence. The
policy affects portfolio accounts with credit swaps tied to
single securities offsetting those tied to indexes.  The change from the March policy may help encourage
clearing of trades under Dodd-Frank, the 2010 regulatory law
that called for most swaps to be guaranteed at clearinghouses as
a way to reduce risk in the financial system. Mandatory clearing
of trades began in March.  EU Fights July Deadline for U.S. Swaps Rule Opposed by Banks  The European Union is urging the U.S. to change course on
planned swaps rules that it says would leave banks saddled with
extra costs and incompatible legal obligations.  EU regulators are concerned that time is running out for
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission to amend or delay
requirements that stretch beyond U.S. borders, ahead of a July
12 deadline, an EU official said.  The international reach of CFTC swap-trading requirements
has been one of the most controversial elements of the U.S.
Dodd-Frank Act rules, prompting opposition from financial
companies including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (G)  and Barclays Plc,
as well as EU, Asian and South American regulators.  The EU is concerned that banks might face overlapping
reporting requirements and incompatible restrictions on where to
clear derivatives trades in the  $633 trillion  global market,
according to the official, who can’t be named in line with
official policy.  Jonathan Faull , the commission official responsible for
financial-services rules, wrote last month to CTFC Chairman  Gary
Gensler  urging him to allow more time for international talks.  China’s CSRC Releases Stringent IPO Rules as Xiao Tackles Fraud  China’s securities regulator plans to restrict share
issuers and major holders from selling their stock below initial
public offering price as part of new rules aimed at cracking
down on fraud and protecting investors.  The restrictions will be in place for two years after lock-ups end, according to draft rules the China Securities
Regulatory Commission posted on its  website  June 7. Issuers must
also prepare and disclose plans to stabilize share prices that
fall below net asset values within five years of their debuts.  The watchdog is seeking public feedback on the proposals by
June 21.  New CSRC Chairman Xiao Gang is extending predecessor Guo
Shuqing’s campaign to combat fraud, dishing out penalties
including a three-month suspension of Ping An Securities Co.  Under the draft rules, when a company reports a net loss or
a drop of more than 50 percent in profit in the same year as an
IPO, the CSRC will stop reviewing any applications submitted by
the investment bank that advised it.  The CSRC also plans to change the IPO pricing system by
letting individual investors who meet criteria set by
underwriters participate in the placement process, previously
limited to institutional investors, according to the draft
rules.  To make the IPO process more market driven, the CSRC plans
to allow issuers 12 months to decide when to start trading after
they receive regulatory approval for their initial sales.  Companies will also be able to apply to issue bonds while
their IPO applications are pending regulatory approval, the
securities watchdog said, as it encourages companies to explore
fundraising options.  SEC Doing Better at Assessing Cost of Regulations, Watchdog Says  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has improved
how it justifies new regulations after at least five recent
court defeats faulted its use of economic analysis, according to
an audit by the agency’s inspector general.  The agency specified the reason for regulations, considered
alternatives to rules and integrated economic analysis into the
rule-writing process, SEC Inspector General Carl W. Hoecker
wrote in an analysis of 12 rules proposed or finished during
2012. The analysis was requested by Representatives Darrell E.
Issa and Patrick T. McHenry, Republican lawmakers who have been
critical of the SEC’s rulemaking procedures.  The audit shows how the SEC has made progress using cost-benefit analysis since having a rule on board of directors
nominations overturned by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
 District of Columbia  in July 2011. That decision said the SEC
failed to study the cost to companies of fighting shareholders
over a nominee and how it would affect  capital markets .  Issa and McHenry requested the analysis after the decision
by the appeals court and a critical report on SEC cost-benefit
analysis by former Inspector General  David Kotz . A spokesman for
McHenry declined to comment and a spokesmen for Issa didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment.  The report by outside consultant HDR Engineering Inc. says
the SEC could improve how it describes alternatives to
regulation and why it can’t always calculate the benefits of new
rules.  Compliance Action  U.K. Fights EU Short-Selling Powers After Defeat on Bank Bonuses  The U.K., defeated in a campaign to derail European Union
curbs on banker bonuses, goes to the bloc’s top court tomorrow
in a bid to overturn the powers of an EU agency to ban short
selling.  Britain will argue at the Luxembourg-based EU Court of
Justice that the  European Securities and Markets Authority ’s
decision-making ability comes at the expense of national
supervisors, in the latest skirmish against the EU’s growing
powers over financial services.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  has promised to seek a new
settlement with the EU, amid a rising tide of opposition that
saw the U.K. Independence Party, which advocates a divorce from
the bloc, gains seats in local elections last month. While
Cameron has said he plans a referendum on EU membership by the
end of 2017, this has failed to quell calls from members of his
Conservative Party for Britain’s European destiny to be put to
the people sooner.  The U.K. has often found itself on the defensive in EU
discussions on financial regulation. The nation, which lacks a
veto on financial laws, was the sole dissenting voice in March
opposing a deal to ban bonuses more than twice fixed pay.  For more, click here.  HDFC Expects Central Bank Approval for $500 Million Loan Soon  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , India’s biggest mortgage
company, expects central bank approval soon for a plan to borrow
$500 million overseas to finance home loans for the poor.  The proceeds from the dollar-denominated borrowing will be
used to fund low-cost “affordable housing” projects, V.
Srinivasa Rangan, executive director at the Mumbai-based
company, said in an interview at his office on June 5.  The  Reserve Bank  of India unveiled rules in December to
allow property developers, mortgage companies and the National
Housing Bank, a regulator for home finance lenders, to raise
funds abroad to finance mortgages for the needy. The total that
can be raised under the program for all companies is $1 billion.  Mortgage lenders will cap individual home loan amounts at
2.5 million rupees ($43,800), and the cost of the property
cannot exceed 3 million rupees under the rules. About half the
population in India’s financial hub, Mumbai, lives in slums.  India’s housing industry is largely unregulated and opaque
and consumers are often unable to access sufficient information
or hold builders accountable, according to the government. A
bill was approved this month that would regulate the residential
housing industry to protect home buyers.  China Sovereign Fund President Says It’s Met State Expectations  China Investment Corp., the nation’s $482 billion sovereign
wealth fund, has met the government’s expectations by delivering
5 percent annualized returns in the five years since its
creation, the official Xinhua News Agency reported, citing the
fund’s president.  CIC achieved an 11 percent investment return on its
overseas portfolio last year, compared with a loss of 4.3
percent in 2011,  Gao Xiqing , a vice chairman of the fund, said
according to Xinhua.  The sovereign fund was set up in 2007 to boost returns on
China’s  foreign exchange reserves , which grew to $3.44 trillion
at the end of the first quarter. Since then, the  State
Administration of Foreign Exchange , or SAFE, which oversees day-to-day management of the reserves, has created an office with
the mandate to seek “innovative use” of the funds.  Li Jie, head of the foreign-exchange reserve research
office at the Central University of Finance and Economics in
Beijing, said by telephone that CIC is “an experiment for China
to manage excessive foreign exchange reserves for higher
returns.”  Li, who has advised the foreign exchange regulator in the
past, said SAFE is acting increasingly like CIC, including
investing in equities and hiring people from  Wall Street .  Xinhua cited CIC’s Gao as saying there’s “no problem”
with China having more than one sovereign fund if they have a
proper relationship. There should also be an “overall plan,”
he was quoted as saying.  Courts  SEC Pays $580,000 to Resolve Former Investigator’s Firing Claims  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has paid
$580,000 to settle claims by a former internal watchdog that he
was fired in an effort to quash his investigations.  David Weber , who was terminated late last year from his job
as chief investigator in the SEC inspector general’s office,
will also have his personnel records revised to show he was an
employee in good standing and resigned voluntarily. The
settlement was announced by Cary Hansel, Weber’s attorney at
Joseph, Greenwald & Laake in Greenbelt, Maryland.  The resolution puts a capstone on a troubled period at the
SEC’s internal investigation unit. Weber sued the SEC in
November, arguing that he was terminated as part of a campaign
to cover up the potential wrongdoing he had been investigating.  “We have obtained justice for Mr. Weber, but that is only
the beginning,” Hansel said. “This entire affair started when
the SEC sought to silence Mr. Weber and bury the concerns he
raised.”  The case is Weber v. U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, 12-cv-01850, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  Sam Wyly Wins Ruling in SEC Lawsuit Limiting Civil Penalties  Sam Wyly, the former  Michaels Stores Inc. (MIK)  chairman sued by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for alleged insider
trading and securities fraud, won a ruling limiting the civil
penalties the agency can seek.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in Manhattan in an
order yesterday agreed with Wyly that a U.S. Supreme Court
ruling in February bars the SEC from seeking civil penalties
more than five years after the alleged violations.  An agreement between the SEC and Wyly in 2006 stopped the
clock on the statute of limitations, limiting civil penalties to
violations that occurred after Feb. 1, 2001, according to the
judge’s order. The SEC alleges that Wyly and his late brother
Charles made fraudulent filings as early as 1992, the ruling
said.  Wyly’s lawyer, William A. Brewer III, described the ruling
in an e-mailed statement as “a resounding victory” that
disposes of “potentially hundreds of millions of dollars in
penalties.”  The SEC also seeks about $550 million in disgorgement of
ill-gotten gains, which wasn’t addressed in the ruling.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in an e-mail that the
agency is reviewing the decision.  The 2010 suit alleged a 13-year scheme by the brothers to
hide their ownership of stock in four public companies on whose
boards they sat.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Wyly, 10-cv-05760, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  Plosser Says More Capital Is Needed for Largest Banks  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles
Plosser  spoke about financial regulation and bank capital
requirements.  He spoke at the Boston College  Carroll School of Management 
in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts.  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  