-- Rhoen-Klinikum Looks at Clinic Partnership With Fresenius
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-06-10T12:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/rhoen-klinikum-looks-at-clinic-partnership-with-fresenius.html
Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK)  said it’s in talks
on a partnership with Fresenius SE nine months after the
competitor abandoned a takeover offer that would have created
the biggest German hospital-operating network.  The two companies are in initial negotiations on a program
that would allow patients to buy insurance for in-network
services such as single-bed hospital rooms and treatment by top
doctors, Bad Neustadt An Der Saale, Germany-based Rhoen-Klinikum
said in an e-mailed statement today. The talks are part of a
reorganization in which Rhoen plans 1 billion euros ($1.32
billion) in investments for the next five years.  Rhoen-Klinikum has said it needs to make its hospital
network more competitive after last year’s failed Fresenius
deal. Dubbed ImPuls, the reorganization announced today won’t
include mass firings and isn’t a cost-cutting exercise, the
hospital operator said.  “We’re focusing on above-market-level organic growth for
the company and its clinics,” Chief Financial Officer Jens-Peter Neumann said in the statement.  Rhoen-Klinikum said it plans to increase earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the two- to
three-digit million-euro range in the next two to three years.  Union Customers  The partnership with Fresenius’s Helios hospital unit would
create a “network medicine” project along the lines of the
Helios Club program that Fresenius announced last month,
starting with individual unions and employers and moving toward
nationwide coverage. Talks are under way on how to structure the
partnership, which would not be exclusive, said Sascha
Schiffler, a spokesman for Rhoen-Klinikum.  Fresenius, which is based in the Frankfurt suburb of  Bad
Homburg , decided against pursuing a bid for Rhoen-Klinikum in
September after rivals such as Asklepios Kliniken GmbH bought
stakes to prevent it from winning at least 90 percent of the
stock, a mandatory threshold for full ownership.  Swedish pension fund Alecta, Rhoen-Klinikum’s second-biggest  shareholder , is pushing for a vote to abolish the 90
percent threshold at the German company’s annual meeting on June
12. That would pave the way for a second bid, Konrad Lieder, a
Frankfurt-based analyst for Equinet Bank AG, wrote in a note to
investors today.  The size of Asklepios’s holding makes it unlikely that
Alecta’s proposal will pass, Lieder wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  