-- Rolls-Royce Counting on Wraith Model to Lift Russia Sales
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2013-06-10T11:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/rolls-royce-counting-on-wraith-model-to-lift-russia-sales.html
Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Ltd., the
ultra-luxury carmaker owned by  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , is
counting on its sporty Wraith model to boost sales in Russia,
even as lawmakers debate raising the high-end car tax.  The British maker of the $400,000 Phantom sedan, which
sells 100 cars a year in Russia, is looking to raise sales again
after doubling the number of cars sold in 2009 with the
introduction of the Ghost, Chief Executive Officer Torsten Mueller-Oetvoes said in a June 7 interview in St. Petersburg.  Rolls-Royce is trying to gain a deeper foothold in the
former communist country with a dealership in Russia’s second-largest city after opening two in Moscow. Demand should outweigh
an effort by lawmakers to raise the tax for cars costing more
than 5 million rubles ($154,700), Mueller-Oetvoes said. Rolls-Royces in the country start at 13.9 million rubles.  “Russia is very attractive because you see here a lot of
individuals that have money,” Mueller-Oetvoes said. “A lot of
entrepreneurs are in Russia building their own businesses.
People are perfectly prepared to spend money for  luxury goods .”  Russian lawmakers gave preliminary approval to a tax
increase for luxury cars on May 21 in the first of three
readings. The  tax rate  should be at least doubled after Jan. 1.  Car Sales  Sales of new cars in Russia dropped 8 percent in April to
245,334, compared with the same month a year earlier, while
demand for luxury brands is growing, according to a  survey  by
Association of European Business.  Sales of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Porsche grew 24 percent, while
sister brand Audi sales climbed 11 percent.  Daimler AG (DAI)  sold 18
percent more Mercedes-Benz cars than in April of 2012.  Rolls-Royce’s management is not satisfied with sales on the
European markets except the U.K., Germany and Switzerland,
Mueller-Oetvoes said. The company quit its business in France,
while  Spain  is no longer a big market for Rolls Royce due to the
recession, he said.  “We haven’t many markets worldwide with three-digit annual
sales,” Mueller-Oetvoes said. “Just U.S., China and U.K. and
Russia as the fourth. We sell 20-60 cars per year on other
markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in  St. Petersburg  at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  