-- Letta Ally Beats Berlusconi’s Candidate in Rome Mayoral Race
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-06-10T15:37:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/roman-voters-stay-home-as-mayor-race-tests-letta-berlusconi-bond.html
Ignazio Marino, a member of Italian
Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s Democratic Party, was elected
mayor of Rome after defeating the incumbent candidate backed by
 Silvio Berlusconi  in a runoff vote.  Marino won almost 64 percent to Alemanno’s 36.1 percent,
with about 95 percent of precincts reporting, according to
official results on posted on the  Interior Ministry ’s Web site.  “We accept the defeat and congratulate Marino,” Gianni
Alemanno, the outgoing mayor, said today in remarks broadcast by
SkyTG24. About 45.4 percent of  eligible voters  cast ballots,
compared with 53.8 percent in the first round last month,
according to the Interior Ministry.  The showdown cast Letta and Berlusconi, the billionaire ex-premier, on opposite sides even as the two men stand as partners
in a make-shift national alliance. Alemanno cited the low
turnout in his concession speech and said politicians must work
to counter voter disillusionment.  Democratic Party  candidates also won in Siena, Brescia,
Treviso and Ancona, the biggest of cities with mayoral runoff
races.  Italians are shying away from the polls as lawmakers
struggle to find remedies for recession and unemployment.
Ballot-box enthusiasm suffered further in February when
inconclusive national elections led to a two-month government
stalemate and, eventually, the Letta-Berlusconi alliance that
nullified traditional party distinctions.  Deepening Recession  Italy’s economy, which began its slide in the fourth
quarter of 2011, will probably contract 1.8 percent this year
before rising 0.4 percent in 2014, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said last month. Industrial output
unexpectedly declined in April, falling 0.3 percent from March,
national statistics office Istat said today.  Marino and Alemanno were forced to face off in a second
round when neither one reached the 50 percent threshold needed
to avoid the runoff. Marino finished with 42.6 percent and
Alemanno won 30.3 percent of the vote in the first round when
there were multiple candidates on the ballot.  The first-round vote eliminated the upstart Five Star
Movement, which, led by Beppe Grillo, aims to attract Italians
disillusioned with Letta’s Democratic Party and Berlusconi’s
People of Liberty. Five Star, which won about a quarter of the
votes in the February national election, won about 11 percent of
the  Rome  ballots in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  