-- Rothschild Sees Momentum as U.S. Firms Seek Global Acquisitions
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-06-10T07:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/rothschild-sees-momentum-as-u-s-firms-seek-global-acquisitions.html
David de Rothschild, chairman of
Rothschild Group, said he expects the merger advisory business
to continue to expand in the U.S. as companies seek expertise on
global deals.  “It’s a moment where U.S. corporates are looking for
international investments and contrary to a lot of U.S.
boutiques, which are full of very talented people, we have a
very strong international, global network,” de Rothschild said
in a June 7 interview in Venice. “We had quite a good year last
year, we are seeing much more momentum.”  Rothschild, the world’s largest family-owned advisory firm,
has gained market share in  North America , where it ranked 10th
last year for mergers, up from 16th in 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. This year, Rothschild ranks 32nd in the region
after missing out on the top 20 deals, and globally slipped to
16th from No. 9 in 2012, the data show. Recession is holding
back mergers and acquisitions in  Europe  as an uncertain outlook
makes executives wary of combinations, de Rothschild said.  Companies are “conscious of the fact that the environment
is difficult, that they do not want to overpay,” said de
Rothschild, 70. “They don’t want to do something wrong just
because they have the opportunity of doing something.”  Overall, business has been tougher this year than in the
second half of 2012, said de Rothschild, who was in  Venice  for a
meeting of The Council for the  United States  and  Italy , an
organization that promotes cooperation between the two nations.
Mergers so far this year total $834 billion, compared with $1.2
trillion in the second half of 2012, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  JAB Deal  Rothschild’s biggest merger assignment this year is
advising Joh. A. Benckiser on its purchase of D.E Master
Blenders 1743 NV, a $10 billion transaction that will build a
coffee conglomerate in the industry’s biggest deal ever. In the
U.S., Rothschild is advising AMR Corp. on its combination with
US Airways Group Inc., a $3 billion deal.  Rothschild last year combined its French and U.K. arms
under  Paris Orleans SA (PAOR) , a French publicly-traded company
controlled by the banking dynasty that made its fortune
financing the Duke of Wellington’s campaign against Napoleon
almost 200 years ago. Paris Orleans posted a 22 percent rise in
advisory sales to 256.8 million euros ($339 million) in the
three months to December.  On June 26, the company reports earnings for the fiscal
year ending March 2013, according to its website.  U.S. Bounce  This year, Rothschild has slipped behind Lazard Ltd., the
largest independent merger-advisory firm, which ranks eighth
among global merger advisers after securing a role on three
deals of $10 billion or more, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “As soon as there’s an element of visibility, whatever
that is, sentiment becomes more positive, there will be more
activity,” said de Rothschild. “There’s definitely a bounce
back in the U.S.”  The firm is attracting bankers in the U.S., said de
Rothschild, without elaborating. He sees some banks eliminating
more jobs as regulators demand that lenders increase their
capital and business remains sluggish.  “Have we reached a point where things have stabilized?
Probably more or less, on global view,” said de Rothschild.
“But there are probably still some firms that have to reduce
and are cutting costs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  