-- Rovi Loses Ruling in Patent Case Against Netflix, Roku
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-06-10T20:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/rovi-loses-ruling-in-patent-case-against-netflix-and-roku.html
Rovi Corp. (ROVI)  lost the first round in
its patent-infringement case against  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Roku Inc.
over interactive television program guides at the U.S.
International Trade Commission.  Netflix and Roku didn’t infringe Rovi patents, trade Judge
 David Shaw  said in an  notice  posted on the Washington agency’s
website today. Rovi claimed Netflix infringes four patents and
Roku one. It is seeking an order that would block U.S. imports
of Roku boxes and stop certain Netflix software applications.  Rovi contends its program-guide inventions were included in
Netflix software used on various devices made overseas and
brought into the U.S., including the Roku video-streaming
television box. Netflix and Saratoga, California-based Roku both
denied infringing the patents and argued that the software,
developed in the U.S., was never imported. Rovi pledged to
challenge the judge’s findings before the full commission, which
has set a target to complete the investigation by Oct. 7.  “We continue to believe in the strength, relevance and
value of our patent portfolio, which is evident from the
extensive licensing we have successfully completed with many
leading companies throughout the world,” Samir Armaly,
executive vice president of worldwide intellectual property and
licensing for Rovi, said in a statement.  Rovi fell $1.07, or 4 percent, to $25.44 at the close of
 New York  trading. Netflix rose 71 cents to $220.93.  Correct Forum?  The judge said one of the patents was invalid, and rejected
challenges of the other three. Rovi, based in  Santa Clara ,
California, said it has patent-infringement cases pending
against Netflix and Amazon.com Inc. in district court.  One issue in the case was over where the infringement
occurred, and whether the ITC, with its focus on importation,
was the appropriate forum. In a March hearing on the case, Rovi
argued the agency’s authority covered the electronic
transmission of software used in products that are then brought
into the U.S.  Netflix countered that the activity occurred on its servers
at the company’s headquarters in  Los Gatos , California. Netflix
provides a software development kit that can be put into various
devices. Rather than money, Netflix gets a chance to expand the
number of customers, Netflix lawyer Ashok Ramani of Keker &  Van
Nest  told the court.  While the judge’s findings are not yet public, he did say
on the notice that the “importation requirement has not been
satisfied.”  Netflix Pleased  “We are pleased with the initial determination and look
forward to the full commission confirming it.” Joris Evers, a
spokesman for Netflix, said in a statement.  Eric Wold , an analyst at B.Riley & Co. in  San Francisco ,
had estimated a licensing deal with Netflix could mean as much
as $90 million a year over a three- to five-year period.  “Not only could this opportunity now be at risk, but it
could also drive a similar ruling with the complaint against
Roku,” he said in a note to clients. Wold downgraded his rating
on Rovi shares to neutral, from buy.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Products Containing
Interactive Program Guide and Parental Control Technology,
337-845, U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 