-- Rubber Declines to 7-Week Low as China’s Auto Sales Growth Slows
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-06-10T03:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/rubber-declines-to-7-week-low-as-china-s-auto-sales-growth-slows.html
Rubber declined to a seven-week low
as  China ’s passenger-vehicle sales rose at a slower pace in May,
raising concern that demand may weaken from the world’s largest
consumer of the commodity used in tires.  The contract for delivery in November lost as much as 1.3
percent to 242.9 yen a kilogram ($2,479 a metric ton), the
lowest level since April 18. Futures traded at 245.9 yen on the
 Tokyo  Commodity Exchange at 12:01 p.m., extending this year’s
losses to 19 percent.  Wholesale deliveries of cars, multipurpose and sport
utility vehicles increased 9 percent to 1.4 million units in
May, according to the state-backed China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers yesterday. That compares with growth of
13 percent in April and 13.3 percent in March.  “The Chinese data raised speculation that weakening demand
may push down rubber prices further,” Takaki Shigemoto, an
analyst at research company JSC Corp. in Tokyo, said by phone.  Losses in futures were limited as Japan’s currency weakened
to 98.43 per dollar, raising the appeal of yen-denominated
contracts, he said. The dollar rose before  Federal Reserve  of
St. Louis President  James Bullard  speaks today amid speculation
the central bank will slow monetary stimulus as the economy
improves.  Thai rubber free-on-board dropped 0.6 percent to 87.40 baht
($2.85) a kilogram on June 7, the lowest level since May 3,
according to the Rubber Research Institute of Thailand. The
Shanghai Futures Exchange is closed for a holiday.  Senior officials from Thailand,  Indonesia , Malaysia will
meet this week to discuss measures to limit supply and reduce
price volatility, according to Suwit Chaikiattiyos, deputy
director-general at Department of Agriculture, who is a Thai
representative in International Tripartite Rubber Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  