-- Rupiah Forwards Plunge to Biggest Discount to Spot Since 2011
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-06-10T08:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/rupiah-forwards-plunge-to-biggest-discount-to-spot-since-2011.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah forwards fell to
the biggest discount to the spot rate in 20 months after foreign
funds pulled money from the nation’s assets amid concern there
is a local shortage of dollars.  One-month non-deliverable forwards declined 2.3 percent to
10,355 per dollar as of 3 p.m. in Jakarta, the weakest level
since August 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show. They were at
a 5.2 percent discount to the  exchange rate  quoted by Indonesian
banks, the most since Sept. 30, 2011. The spot rate fell 0.1
percent to 9,815, prices from local lenders show.  Overseas investors have pulled $812 million from local-currency  government bonds  and stocks this month,  finance
ministry  and exchange data show, on speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will reduce its debt-buying that has fueled fund flows
to  emerging markets . Indonesia has recorded six consecutive
quarterly current-account deficits, official data show, and it
is becoming difficult to get the greenback onshore, according to
Herdi Wibowo, head of fixed income at PT BCA Sekuritas.  “It’s all about the supply of U.S. dollars,” Jakarta-based Wibowo said today. “Bank Indonesia is keeping the spot
rate from breaching the 10,000 level for now,” he said, adding
that the rupiah would probably weaken further as a delay in
raising the price of subsidized fuel boosts energy imports and
worsens the current-account shortfall.  ‘Pressure Escalating’  The government announced it may adjust subsidized fuel
prices in January, while President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono made
an increase conditional on parliament approving a compensation
package for the poor on April 30. Prices will be increased after
the 2013 budget revision is finished by June 17, Coordinating
Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa said last week.  The rupiah forward has fallen 3.8 percent in two days,
while the spot rate has declined 0.2 percent.  Bank Indonesia 
will continue to intervene in the  currency market  to guard the
exchange rate at a level that reflects economic fundamentals,
Governor Agus Martowardojo said May 30. The central bank remains
in the market to stabilize the rupiah, spokesman Difi Johansyah
said today.  “We see the rupiah pressure escalating,” said Leo Rinaldy, a Jakarta-based economist at PT Mandiri Sekuritas, a
unit of the nation’s largest lender by assets. “Bank Indonesia
will intervene in the market until there’s clarity on the fuel
policy decision,” he said, adding that the central bank would
not be able to continue doing this indefinitely.  Currency Fixings  The rupiah, together with the Indian rupee and the
Malaysian ringgit, is most at risk of a further volatility rise
and it has one of the highest intervention chances, said Wee-Khoon Chong, a Societe Generale SA strategist in  Hong Kong .  “We saw aggressive BI activities this morning and more can
be expected,” Chong wrote in a note today, referring to Bank
Indonesia.  The central bank set its Jakarta Interbank Spot Dollar
Rate, used by local lenders to settle currency derivatives, at
9,806 per dollar today. That was 2 percent stronger than the
Association of Banks in  Singapore ’s equivalent  fixing , which was
set at 10,006, 1.9 percent weaker than the spot rate.
Indonesia’s central bank introduced its own onshore benchmark
last month after the Monetary Authority of Singapore began an
investigation into the offshore fixings in September.  Indonesia’s trade outlook worsened after data released over
the weekend showed  China ’s export gains were at a 10-month low
in May and factory output rose less than forecast.  “The rupiah’s fundamentals look very weak,” said Khoon Goh, a senior strategist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Singapore. “Given its large current-account
deficit, Indonesia needs to attract $1 billion of portfolio
inflows each month just to keep the rupiah from depreciating.”  The rupiah’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
surged 4.82 percentage points to 13.50 percent.  The yield on the 5.625 percent sovereign bonds maturing in
May 2023 rose nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to
6.35 percent, the highest in almost a year, according to prices
from the Inter Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  