-- Russia Holds Rates as Ignatiev Lays Ground for Heir to Ease
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-06-10T11:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/russia-leaves-rates-unchanged-after-ignatiev-s-inflation-warning.html
Russia’s central bank left its main
 interest rates  unchanged at Sergey Ignatiev’s final meeting as
chairman, signaling that his successor Elvira Nabiullina may
have grounds to cut once inflation begins to slow.  The  refinancing rate  will remain at 8.25 percent for a
ninth month, the central bank in Moscow said in a statement on
its website today. That matched the prediction of 22 of 26 
economists in a Bloomberg survey, with four forecasting a 
quarter-point cut. Some longer-term borrowing costs were cut for 
a third month, with the key lending and deposit rates kept 
unchanged.  By refraining from cuts this month, Ignatiev is maintaining
his stance that Bank Rossii will ease monetary policy once
 inflation  is clearly slowing. Consumer-price growth may drop
into this year’s target range in the second half, while risks to
growth remain from weak investment and a slow recovery in demand
on export markets, policy makers said today in the statement.  “All of the comments are preparing for a change in
monetary policy,”  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research for BNP
Paribas SA in Moscow, said by phone. “Ignatiev’s verbal
interventions have prepared a basis for easing monetary policy,
which will now be overseen by Nabiullina.”  The ruble pared losses against the dollar to trade 0.4
percent weaker at 32.2850 as of 12:53 p.m. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 50
stocks maintained its advance of 0.5 percent to 1,350.86.  Conflicting Data  While Russia’s economic data have signaled continued weak
growth, the labor market and lending have helped support
consumer demand, the central bank said today.  Ignatiev, 65, said in a speech last week that the June
decision “won’t be simple” because of conflicting economic
signs, including his forecast that inflation would decelerate
and may fall back into the target range of 5 percent to 6
percent in September or October.  President  Vladimir Putin  picked Nabiullina, his top
economic aide and a former economy minister, to take the job
Ignatiev has held since 2002. Ignatiev said he accepted her
offer to stay on at Bank Rossii as an adviser after the June 24
handover.  Policy makers began cutting the longer-tenor rates in April
and then again in May. This month they only cut rates for
operations of at least half a year, including on loans backed by
non-marketable assets, gold, and one-year  repurchase agreements .  Little Impact  “The central bank cut the rates that have the least
possible effect on conditions on the money market and in the
economy,” Maxim Oreshkin, chief economist for  Russia  at VTB
Capital in Moscow, said by phone.  The three-month MosPrime rate, which big Moscow banks say
they charge one another, may fall 9 basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, over the next three months, according to
forward-rate agreements tracked by Bloomberg. The gap was as
high as 49 basis points in May.  The overnight and one-week repo rates, the main tools used
to provide lenders with cash, will drop by half a point to 5
percent by the end of the third quarter and then remain on hold
to the end of the year, according to the median estimate of 12
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Negative Shocks’  Consumer-price growth held at 7.4 percent from a year
earlier as of June 3, maintaining the pace in May that was the
highest in 21 months. The rate is mostly driven by food costs
and some regulated prices, according to the statement. Given the
currently monetary policy and barring “negative shocks” on the
food market, inflation should ease to the target range in the
second half, the central bank said.  “While the central bank kept the three key policy rates
unchanged, it has clearly started to recognize in a more
explicit manner the continuing weakness of the economy,” said
 Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist for Russia at  Renaissance
Capital  in Moscow.  “The arrival of Nabiullina should change
the policy bias at the central bank to a more accommodating
position.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  