-- RWE Said to Struggle to Find Buyers for Dea Oil, Gas Unit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   T i n o   A n d r e s e n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-06-11T16:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/rwe-said-to-struggle-to-find-buyers-for-dea-oil-gas-unit.html
RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s second-largest
utility, is struggling to find buyers for its Dea oil and gas
unit, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  So far, only  BASF SE (BAS) ’s energy unit Wintershall has
expressed serious interest in buying all of Dea, two of the
people said, asking not to be identified because the talks are
private. RWE may have to accept less than the 4.5 billion euros
to 5 billion euros ($6.6 billion) it initially sought if it
proceeds with a sale of the entire unit, the people said. RWE
spokeswoman Annett Urbaczka declined to comment on the process.  Failing to sell Dea would represent a fresh blow to RWE’s
divestment efforts after the company was forced to scrap a sale
of gas fields in  Egypt  last year amid tepid interest and the
country’s political unrest. In March, it also abandoned a target
of 7 billion euros in disposals by the end of the year after
prices fell short.  “We do not want to divest at just any price,” Peter Terium, chief executive officer at RWE, said in March when he
announced plans to sell the unit.  RWE shares have dropped 17 percent in  Frankfurt  this year,
the third-worst performance in Germany’s benchmark DAX index, as
a surplus of wind and solar production forces power prices to a
record low. The reduced revenue from generation comes as
utilities seek to shoulder the cost of closing nuclear power
stations as part of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s shift to
alternative energy.  Under Pressure  “For the negotiation of prices it is problematic if
potential buyers know that RWE is under pressure to sell,” Sven Diermeier, an analyst at Independent Research GmbH, said by
phone from Frankfurt. “A sale in 2013 is improbable.”  RWE fell 0.7 percent to 26.015 euros in Frankfurt trading,
the lowest close in almost 18 months. Larger competitor EON SE
was down 0.4 percent at 12.82 euros.  German utilities are seeking to reduce debt after Merkel
ordered them to close their nuclear plants by 2022 in the wake
of the Fukushima nuclear accident in  Japan  in 2011. EON is
selling assets valued at as much as 20 billion euros.  “We continually check possible acquisitions,” said Stefan Leunig, a spokesman for Wintershall, declining to comment
further. Rainer Seele, CEO of Wintershall, expressed interest in
acquiring RWE Dea at a press conference in Kassel on March 12,
Handelsblatt reported.  Norway, Egypt  While other buyers have expressed interest in parts of Dea
and RWE would be open to selling them, the unit’s management is
pushing for it to be sold as a whole, two of the people said.
RWE has attracted interest in its Norwegian and North Sea
assets, while buyers are more reluctant to purchase the Egyptian
segment, which requires investments and is exposed to a less
politically stable region, people familiar with the matter said
last year.  “I can’t imagine that RWE will sell Dea in parts,”
Diermeier said. “They will achieve a higher price for the
package than for the parts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  