-- San Onofre Seen as Latest Setback for U.S. Nuclear Power
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d ,   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-06-10T17:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/san-onofre-seen-as-latest-setback-for-u-s-nuclear-power.html
Edison International (EIX) ’s decision to
abandon its San Onofre nuclear plant in California is the latest
blow for an industry already facing questions about its long-term survival.  Edison, based in Rosemead, California, announced June 7 it
will permanently shut the plant’s two reactors, trimming total
U.S. operating units to 100 from 104 at the beginning of the
year and 110 at the peak in 1996. The announcement brings to
four the number of units permanently removed from service this
year, the most in any year since the nation embraced nuclear
power.  Other facilities are nearing the end of their projected
lifespans and may need costly renovations while cheap natural
gas has siphoned off market share. Potentially expensive
regulations to bolster safety in response to a triple meltdown
at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in 2011 have raised the
concerns of investors.  “The decision to shut down San Onofre is another sign that
the economics of nuclear are under pressure given the low cost
of alternative sources,”  Travis Miller , a Chicago-based analyst
for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said in a phone interview. “Just five
years ago, nuclear  power plants  looked like a gold mine.”  Since a near-meltdown at the Three Mile Island plant in
Pennsylvania in March 1979, 19 reactors have closed or been
designated for closure and four have been approved for
construction. The San Onofre plant, run by a subsidiary of
Southern California Edison, was taken offline in January 2012
after a radioactive leak and unusual wear on steam generator
tubes was discovered.  Unique Situation  “This is a situation that is unique to Southern California
Edison,”  Steve Kerekes , a spokesman for the Nuclear Energy
Institute, a Washington-based industry group for reactor owners,
said in a statement.  “This is a blow to California’s energy diversity but is
not an indicator of the industry’s larger ability to reliably
supply low-carbon electricity to hundreds of millions of
electricity consumers,” he said. “The fundamentals in the
electricity sector continue to present a strong argument for the
value of nuclear energy.”  Edison will record a $300 million to $425 million cost in
the second quarter from shutting the plant. Its shares fell 1.3
percent to $47 at 1:48 p.m. in New York.  Enron Blackouts  Edison decided to shut the reactors as the state’s power
supply faces its biggest test since market manipulation by
traders for companies including Enron Corp. in 2000 and 2001
helped push electricity prices to record levels and triggered
rolling blackouts across the state.  Calpine Corp. (CPN)  of Houston,  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  of Princeton,  New
Jersey , and other owners of plants that sell power on
California’s wholesale market stand to benefit from the higher
power prices caused by the nuclear plant’s absence, according to
 Andrew Smith , an analyst with Drexel Hamilton LLC.  “If you’re a generator in California, this is a net
benefit to you,” Smith said in an interview. “If you are a
consumer of energy, the reverse is true.”  The grid in the southern portion of the state has been
bolstered with the expectation that the reactors wouldn’t be
operating this summer, said Stephen Berberich, Chief Executive
Officer of the California Independent System Operator. The state
will also encourage energy conservation on the hottest days,
Berberich said in a June 7 media call.  “We will get through this summer,” he said. “Assuming no
catastrophes or fires, we can squeak by.”  Without the 2,200 megawatt San Onofre plant, Southern
California’s dependency on power imported from neighboring
 Arizona  and Nevada and other states will grow. Wholesale
 electricity  at Southern California’s SP15 hub has averaged
$50.97 a megawatt-hour so far this year on the  Intercontinental
Exchange , heading for the highest annual average since 2008.  Power Demand  State electricity demand is expected to peak at 47,413
megawatts this summer, 2.3 percent higher than last year,
according to the California ISO.  To replace the generation lost by San Onofre, California
will need to build gas-fueled plants that produce more pollution
than nuclear power, Morningstar’s Miller said. In addition, the
shutdown will hasten the region’s shift to wind and solar
alternatives as California plans to get one-third of its
electricity from renewables by the end of the decade, he said.  Nationwide, nuclear power reached a peak in 2001 when it
generated 20.6 percent of all U.S. electricity. Last year, its
share fell to 19 percent, the lowest since 1998, according to
the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Economic Climate  Two reactors being constructed by  Southern Co. (SO)  of Atlanta,
two being built by  Scana Corp. (SCG)  of Cayce, South Carolina, and a
previously abandoned Tennessee Valley Authority project are the
only units scheduled to be completed this decade.  Dominion Resources Inc. (D)  and  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  have
announced in recent months that they will retire a unit each.
 Exelon Corp. (EXC)  of Chicago plans to shut its 44-year-old Oyster
Creek reactor, the oldest in the U.S. fleet, at the end of 2019.  The economic climate, coupled with an increase in renewable
energy sources like solar and wind generation, may not bode well
for new units, said  David Lochbaum , director of the Nuclear
Safety Project for the Union of Concerned Scientists, a
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based environmental group.  “It’s difficult to get Wall Street to loan money against
so much uncertainty,” he said in a phone interview. “The four
closures this year make Wall Street more apprehensive, not less
apprehensive.”  Environmentalists’ Pressure  Edison decided to shut the plant, located between Los
Angeles and San Diego, after determining regulators may take too
long to decide whether it can restart. The company faced
challenges from environmental group Friends of the Earth and
California Senator  Barbara Boxer , a Democrat, who raised
concerns about the plant’s return to service.  Dominion of Richmond, Virginia, closed its 39-year-old
Kewaunee nuclear plant in Wisconsin in May after determining
that low wholesale power costs, driven by a decline in gas
prices, didn’t justify keeping the facility open as power
purchase agreements were ending.  Duke Energy of Charlotte, North Carolina, the largest U.S.
utility owner, decided in February to close its Crystal River
plant in Florida. The unit had been shut since 2009, when
workers replacing a steam generator triggered cracking in the
concrete containment building.  Last Wave  The last wave of U.S. plant closures was in the late 1990s,
when falling gas prices helped tilt economics in favor of
retiring rather than attempting large-scale repairs. Six
reactors were closed from 1996 to 1998, according to Nuclear
Regulatory Commission data, and peaked in 1996 when Haddam Neck
in Meriden, Connecticut; Maine Yankee in Wicasset, Maine; and
Unit 2 at the Zion plant in Illinois shut.  About 10 percent of the generating capacity retired in the
U.S. since 2010 has come from nuclear, according to data
provided by the  Nuclear Energy Institute . Shutdowns of coal and
natural gas plants have accounted for about 74 percent of the
35,596 megawatts of power retired within the past three years,
the industry group said.  “The decision to shut down rather than retrofit the San
Onofre nuclear plant shows the changing economics of the power
market,” Howard Learner, executive director of the
Environmental Law and Policy Center, a Chicago-based advocate of
cleaner energy, said in a telephone interview. “We suspect
other nuclear plant owners may start reaching the same
decision.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  