-- Schmolz Examines Options for German Distribution Unit in Revamp
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-06-10T08:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/schmolz-examines-options-for-german-distribution-unit-in-revamp.html
Schmolz & Bickenbach AG (STLN)  will focus
more strongly on steel-production units to help improve earnings
by 230 million euros ($303 million) and said it will examine
strategic options for the German part of its distribution
business.  Schmolz, based in Emmenbruecke,  Switzerland , said in a
statement its growth and profitability program covers all areas
of the business and forecast about 100 million euros in cost
reductions and efficiency gains. As a result of the revamp,
Schmolz will have earnings before interest, taxes, amortization
and depreciation of more than 300 million euro by 2016, it said.  “In light of the depressing underlying fundamentals in
 Europe  the cost measures are highly welcome,” Patrick Rafaisz,
an analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich, said in a note to
investors. “Margins could prove better than assumed today if
Distribution is being scaled down.”  The Swiss steelmaker last week rejected a proposal for a
434 million-franc ($462 million) capital increase from its main
shareholder, Schmolz & Bickenbach GmbH & Co. KG, and Russian
billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg ’s Renova Group and proposed a
smaller share sale of 330 million francs instead to shore up
finances.  Schmolz’s loss-making distribution unit contributed 1.3
billion euros to a total of 3.6 billion euros in sales last
year. The company was founded in 1919 and operated as a steel
trader before expanding into manufacturing. The group employs
around 10,000 people of whom 2,369 work in the distribution
unit, which offers consulting, post-processing and delivery
services related to steel orders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  