-- SEC Pays $580,000 Over Ex-Investigator’s Firing Claims
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-06-10T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/sec-pays-580-000-over-ex-investigator-s-firing-claims.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission has paid $580,000 to settle claims by a former
internal watchdog that he was fired in an effort to quash his
investigations.  David Weber , who was terminated late last year from his job
as chief investigator in the SEC inspector general’s office,
will also have his personnel records revised to show he was an
employee in good standing and resigned voluntarily. The
settlement was announced by Cary Hansel, Weber’s attorney at
Joseph, Greenwald & Laake in Greenbelt, Maryland.  The resolution puts a capstone on a troubled period at the
SEC’s internal investigation unit. Shortly after his hiring last
year, Weber reported allegations of unethical conduct by
recently departed Inspector General H.  David Kotz . Some of the
office’s employees then complained that Weber illegally carried
a gun while on duty.  Weber, who said he had a properly licensed firearm in his
car, sued the SEC in November, arguing that he was terminated as
part of a campaign to cover up the potential wrongdoing he had
been investigating. The court papers contained extensive details
about Weber’s probes, including one reviewing whether the agency
mishandled sensitive data from  stock exchanges .  “We have obtained justice for Mr. Weber, but that is only
the beginning,” said Hansel, who urged further investigation of
the allegations Weber raised in the lawsuit. “This entire
affair started when the SEC sought to silence Mr. Weber and bury
the concerns he raised.”  ‘Important Work’  “The settlement resolves the matter to everyone’s
satisfaction and permits the Office of the Inspector General to
continue focus on its important work,”  John Nester , an SEC
spokesman, said in a statement.  The payment is one of the highest the SEC has paid in a
whistleblower retaliation settlement, Hansel said.  The agency paid $755,000 in 2010 to  Gary Aguirre , a former
enforcement lawyer who said he was unjustly fired for trying to
investigate insider-trading allegations involving former  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  Chief Executive Officer  John Mack . The SEC closed its
probe of Mack in 2006 without allegations of wrongdoing.  Weber’s original complaints in March 2012 prompted the SEC
to bring in  David Williams , the inspector general of the U.S.
Postal Service, to conduct a review. Williams concluded that
Kotz violated ethics rules by overseeing probes that involved
people with whom he had personal relationships. Kotz had quit in
January 2012 amid questions about his conduct.  Williams concluded there wasn’t any evidence that Weber’s
actions were improper or raised security concerns.  The case is Weber v. U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, 12-cv-01850, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  