-- Senate Votes to Scale Back Farm Subsidies
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-06-10T22:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/senate-votes-to-scale-back-farm-subsidies.html
The  U.S. Senate  passed a $955
billion update of U.S. agriculture policy, sending it to the
 House of Representatives , where disagreements over food stamps
and farmer subsidies may complicate passage.  The most expensive non-appropriations legislation to pass
the Senate this year would reduce  government spending  by about
$2.4 billion annually while preserving most farm and nutrition
programs, said Senate Agriculture Committee Chairwoman  Debbie Stabenow .  “We transition toward market-based risk management tools
for our farmers,” Stabenow said on the Senate floor before the
Senate voted 66-27 for the bill.  Crop subsidies benefiting buyers such as  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and food stamps subsidizing purchases at  Supervalu
Inc. (SVU)  are targets for lawmakers seeking deficit cuts, while
environmental and humanitarian groups are opposing cuts in
programs that serve the poor and encourage clean land and water.
Still, food aid and farm payments remain popular with lawmakers
who can show constituents an ability to work across the aisle.  The Senate plan would end a program that makes direct
payments to farmers regardless of crop prices while expanding an
insurance-based safety net. Its $4 billion in cuts to  food
stamps  over a decade are about one-fifth as much as the House
version, which costs $939 billion over 10 years.  Enough Reductions?  While Stabenow and the top Republican on the Senate
Agriculture Committee ,  Thad Cochran  of  Mississippi , have said
they would resist further cuts to the program,  House Republicans 
are saying their approach may not lower spending enough.  “Unless there are some significant changes and some
significant effort, I don’t think this’ll get across the
floor,” Kansas Republican Tim Huelskamp said in an interview.
“People in Kansas get it -- just because it’s the farm bill
doesn’t mean you have to vote for it,” said Huelskamp, whose
district last year was the  second-biggest  recipient of
agricultural subsidies, according to data compiled by
conservation advocate Environmental Working Group. “It’s not
just the farm bill, it’s also the food stamp bill.”  Representative  Collin Peterson  of  Minnesota , the top
Democrat on the House Agriculture Committee, said last week he
believes not more than 150 Republicans will support the bill,
meaning roughly 70 Democrats will also have to vote for it.  Nutrition Politics  Democratic sympathy for food stamps means he needs to
reassure his caucus that a final congressional bill will more
resemble the Senate plan than the House’s.  “I don’t see the Senate agreeing to much more than it
already has,” Peterson told reporters.  In the version that probably will be considered by the full
House next week, food-stamp spending would be reduced by $20.5
billion over 10 years.  More than a dozen smaller-government groups are pressing
House lawmakers to split food stamps from the farm bill, and
then make additional cuts to food-stamp funding.  “The urban and rural logrolling deemed necessary to pass
this bill has created an unholy bipartisan alliance that has
long served to thwart fiscally responsible efforts to restrain
spending and limit the growth of government,” the groups,
including Heritage Action, Club for Growth, Americans for
Prosperity and the  American Conservative Union  wrote in a June
10 letter.  Dairy Policy  One of the big fights on the House floor may be over
Peterson’s proposal to support dairy incomes through supply
management, under which farmers who voluntarily enter the
program would agree to cut milk production once prices fall
below a set level. Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , is
backing an alternative plan that moves milk producers to an
insurance program without production controls, which Peterson
says are necessary to prevent a plunge in milk prices.  When Congress tried last year to pass a five-year farm-policy bill, dairy policy was one of the reasons the legislation
never made it to the House floor, with lawmakers instead
settling for a one-year extension that begins to expire Sept.
30.  Unless the bill is changed, “It could potentially cause
problems for the farm bill passing, because you’ll have
Republican leadership and a good deal of Republicans you’ll need
to have to pass the farm bill angry at a provision that’s going
to be in there,” Jerry Slominski,  International Dairy Foods
Association  senior vice president for legislative and economic
affairs, said in an interview.  Sugar Subsidies  Other disputes may arise over sugar policy. Representative
Ron Kind, a Wisconsin Democrat, is also expected to again offer
an amendment restructuring farm programs to redirect funds to
smaller farmers and environmental programs.  Lobbying by agriculture interests increased to $138 million
last year from $112 million in 2007, the year before the last
farm bill passed, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics, a Washington-based research group that tracks spending
on lobbying. Agriculture-industry employees spent $91 million on
the 2012 elections, up from $70 million in 2008.  The Senate bill is S. 954. The House bill is H.R. 1947.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  