-- Shale Boom Curbs OPEC’s Grip as Saleri Sees $120 Oil Cap
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-06-11T14:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/shale-boom-curbing-opec-s-grip-as-saleri-sees-oil-capped-at-120.html
Technological advances to harness
shale resources will curb OPEC’s influence in the oil market and
cap crude prices at $120 a barrel, said Nansen Saleri, former
head of reservoir management at Saudi Arabian Oil Co.  The boom in North American oil output could be replicated
in  Russia , China and  Brazil  as new extraction techniques enable
the development of as much as 9 trillion barrels in
unconventional resources, said Saleri, who is now chief
executive officer of Houston-based consultant Quantum Reservoir
Impact. That’s diminishing the role played by the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, currently in control of 40
percent of global oil supplies, he said.  “We’ve already entered an era that’s not OPEC-centric
anymore,” Saleri said in an interview in New York on June 7.
“One can anticipate now a much more stable, less volatile price
environment because of the multitude of production coming on
board.”  The use of techniques such as hydraulic fracturing and
horizontal drilling has helped push U.S. crude output to its
highest in two decades, prompting a cut in imports from some
OPEC members such as Nigeria and  Algeria , which offer similar
types of oil. OPEC signaled growing unease with the U.S. oil
boom by announcing a study into shale at its May 31 meeting in
Vienna.  Russia, U.S.  Worldwide recoverable resources of tight oil in shale
formations, which are tapped by hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, could be 345 billion barrels, the U.S.  Energy
Information Administration  said in an  assessment  yesterday.  Russia has the biggest resources of “technically
recoverable” tight oil, with 75 billion barrels, the EIA said.
The U.S. is the world’s second-largest holder with 58 billion
barrels, up from 32 billion two years ago, the agency said.
OPEC-member Libya has the fifth-biggest resources with 26
billion barrels, the EIA said.  West Texas Intermediate futures, at about $94 a barrel
today, will probably trade in a range of $80 to $120 this decade
as surging output limits gains while economic progress in  China 
and  India  prevents prices from collapsing, Saleri said.
Production costs of $30 to $50 a barrel for U.S. shale
developers will decline within the next 10 years as extraction
processes improve, he said.  “What was difficult is now becoming easy, and that’s
because of the invisible hand of technology,” Saleri said. He
founded Quantum Reservoir Impact, which helps oil-producers
increase output rates, in 2007.  Saudi Resources  Saudi Arabia can unlock more of its “huge resources”
using available technology and recover as much as 70 percent of
the oil it holds underground, Saleri said. The kingdom is
capable of boosting its production capacity to 15 million
barrels a day, up from 12.5 million at present, he said. Any
decision the country takes on capacity will probably depend on
market conditions, he said.  Saleri, citing what he sees as an abundance of current
supply, dismissed the ideas of so-called peak-oil theorists, who
argue the world is running out of crude and that producers can’t
pump much more from aging fields. “We are in the beginning of
the journey on the unconventional side of oil,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  