-- Shire’s New CEO Adds Sales Staff, Damps Takeover Talk
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-06-10T16:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/shire-s-new-ceo-adds-sales-staff-damps-takeover-talk.html
Flemming Ornskov, who took over as
 Shire Plc (SHP) ’s chief executive officer six weeks ago, is adding
sales jobs and eschewing future share buybacks while cooling
speculation that the drugmaker is an imminent takeover target.  Shire cut its U.S. sales force by as much as 150 last year,
and Ornskov said he expects to restore a “significant” portion
of those jobs in anticipation of widening use for Vyvanse, the
company’s top-selling drug for attention deficit hyperactivity
disorder, as a therapy for binge-eating and depression. Ornskov
said he has no plans to expand a share-repurchasing program
started by his predecessor, Angus Russell, who retired in April
after 13 years at the company.  Larger rivals such as AstraZeneca Plc and GlaxoSmithKline
Plc have cut positions and bought back shares amid sluggish
revenue growth. Like those companies, Shire is seeking
acquisitions to boost sales. The Dublin-based drugmaker has made
three  acquisitions  this year and spent $50 million on 12
investments in the past two years in startup companies
developing new technologies such as antibodies and gene therapy
for rare diseases.  “I have a plethora of choices of deals I could be doing,”
Ornskov, 55, said in an interview in London. “I would love to
find things in the marketplace that fit well into our rare
diseases business.”  Takeover Speculation  Shire’s  sales growth , which has averaged 17 percent over
the past eight years, made it the subject of repeated
speculation as a takeover target for companies including
AstraZeneca and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  “That’s never been a focus of ours inside the company, in
terms of being on the receiving end of M&A,” Ornskov said in
the interview last week. “I just had a board meeting yesterday.
We were only talking about growth, innovation, updates on
pipeline, how do we work with patient associations, what’s the
political environment, what are we doing to train and retain the
best people. No one mentioned incoming M&A.”  Ornskov declined to comment on whether the company has
received an acquisition approach.  Shire fell 0.2 percent to 2,103 pence in  London  today,
giving the company a market value of 11.7 billion pounds ($18.2
billion). The stock has gained 19 percent including reinvested
dividends since Oct. 25, the day Shire said that Ornskov would
succeed Russell, and reached the highest in more than 14 months
on May 28, four weeks after he took over.  Acquisition Size  Shire has repurchased about $300 million of its shares as
part of a $500 million buyback, and Ornskov said he has no plans
to extend the program, after the Mail on Sunday reported he was
weighing whether to return 2 billion pounds to investors,
without saying where it got the information.  “I will see that to an end, but I have no plans currently
to extend or put another one in place,” he said. “Shire’s
investors are best served by me and the leadership team being
focused on growth.”  When it comes to acquisitions, size doesn’t matter, Ornskov
said.  “We’ve shown we can do small deals, we have a history of
doing big deals that were transformational for Shire, but size
is not what we discuss with the board,” Ornskov said. “It’s
fit with the strategy, it’s unmet need, it’s opportunity for
growth.”  Shire has a mixed record of deal-making. In 2005 the
company paid $1.6 billion for Transkaryotic Therapies Inc.,
which it used to build a rare-disease business that brought in
$1.4 billion in sales last year. Two years later, Shire gained
Vyvanse with a $2.6 billion acquisition of New River
Pharmaceuticals Inc.  Dermagraft Deal  Other deals have been less fruitful. Advanced BioHealing,
purchased less than two years ago for $750 million, brought in a
treatment for diabetic foot ulcers called Dermagraft that
Russell said may reach $500 million a year in revenue. Nine
months later, the  U.S. Department of Justice  told Shire it was
investigating the unit’s sales practices, leading the company to
replace most of the product’s sales force and take a $199
million charge in the first quarter of this year.  Dermagraft reaped $154 million last year, and just $19
million in the first quarter of 2013. Ornskov said it may
ultimately reach $200 million in annual sales, “which is
potentially even a stretch.”  “We’re going to start to see slow growth,” he said. “Not
the kind of growth I would find satisfactory, not the growth
people would have expected when we bought it.”  Ornskov said he wants to give the business his “best
shot.”  ‘Be Honest’  “I want to fix this business, then I want to see, are
there opportunities around this business to build better
critical mass? Are there other products that could be added?”
he said. “But if in a year or two, I have to say it didn’t work
out, I’ll be honest about it. But hopefully by that time we’ll
have created a business that could still have value in other
people’s hands.”  Growth in prescriptions for Vyvanse has slowed to 6 percent
in the first quarter of this year from 23 percent a year
earlier, according to company  statements . While Shire is
starting to expand sales of Vyvanse in  Europe  under the brand
name Elvanse, Ornskov said he doesn’t expect the product to
return to “dramatic” growth as a treatment for ADHD.  Instead, he’s banking on trials of the drug in  binge-eating
disorder , which afflicts as many as 6 million Americans, and
 major depressive disorder , which affects about 9 million in the
U.S. Success in those studies, for which results are expected
early next year, may propel sales of Vyvanse to more than $2
billion from $1.03 billion last year, Ornskov said.  “I am not negative about Vyvanse as a growth trajectory
for Shire, if these trials work out,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  