-- Sibal to Meet With Indian Telecom Firms to End Lawsuits
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-06-10T04:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/sibal-to-meet-owners-of-indian-telecom-firms-to-end-litigations.html
India ’s communications minister
Kapil Sibal said he has called for a meeting with owners of
mobile-phone companies to resolve lawsuits that have resulted in
a 85 percent drop in overseas investment in the industry.  Sibal, who also oversees the law ministry, will meet the
heads of the wireless phone companies in the next two weeks, he
said in an interview broadcast by Bloomberg TV India today.  Indian courts are hearing more than a dozen lawsuits from
operators and the Department of Telecommunications over cases
ranging from wrongful termination of licenses to purchases of
mobile-airwaves beyond the legal limit. Foreign direct
investment into the world’s second-largest telecom market shrank
to $304 million in the year ended March 31, from $2 billion in
the previous 12 months, according to government data, after the
 Supreme Court  in February 2012 canceled 122 licenses tied to
India’s largest graft case.  “I am going to listen to them as to where are the areas in
litigation that needs to be attended to,” Sibal said. “I don’t
know exactly where the problem is. We will be extremely
constructive about fixing the problem.”  The cancellation of the licenses by the Supreme Court,
citing corruption during their original allocation, led to the
exit of Bahrain Telecommunications Co. and  Emirates
Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT)  Companies including  Russia ’s  AFK
Sistema (AFKS) ,  Norway ’s  Telenor ASA (TEL) ,  Tata Teleservices Maharashtra
Ltd. (TTLS)  and  Idea (IDEA)  Cellular Ltd. have filed lawsuits claiming their
licenses were wrongfully terminated.  ‘Way Forward’  “Multiple issues over several years cannot be resolved in
one meeting,”  said Harit Shah, a Mumbai-based analyst with
Nirmal Bang Equities Ltd. “At best, they can come to common
ground regarding the way forward.”  Call rates in India remain among the lowest in the world.
With 13 operators offering services to 867 million connections
in the world’s second-most populous nation, price wars forced
voice rates down to as low as 0.5 rupees (0.9 cents) from as
high as 16 rupees in 1995.  “Part of the problem is the industry being at war with
each other,” said Sibal in the interview. Other problems are
the “bureaucracy” and the “state of the industry today is
much worse than it ever was because of the huge debt that it has
accumulated” of about 2.5 trillion rupees, he said.  Indian carriers have raised call rates by at least 30
percent since the start of this year by increasing headline
tariffs or reducing free minutes, according to  Fitch Ratings .  Call Tariffs  “Indian telcos’ gradual increase in voice tariffs
demonstrates the restoration of some pricing power,” Fitch said
May 29. “This is positive for the industry following a
prolonged period of price-led competition during 2008-12 which
eroded profitability and weakened balance sheets.”  Foreign carriers, which have spent a combined $7 billion on
Indian airwaves and networks, are waiting for regulatory clarity
before increasing investments.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  last month said its application to renew
licenses for second-generation wireless services in key Indian
cities was rejected by the Department of Telecommunications. The
carrier’s Indian unit filed a petition in February challenging
the department’s decision to re-auction the licenses, which
expire in 2014.  Acquisition Rules  Vodafone, the world’s second-largest mobile-phone service
provider, is also waiting to resolve a $2.2 billion dispute with
Indian tax authorities over the 2007 acquisition of  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Indian unit. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
Cabinet approved a non-binding proposal on June 4 to start
conciliations with the Newbury, England-based carrier.  Billionaire Sunil Mittal and his  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  were
last year charged with acquiring more mobile-phone spectrum than
the government allowed. Bharti said March 19 the company would
fight the charges, calling it “an attempt to tarnish” its
reputation.  Shares of Bharti, India’s largest mobile carrier, advanced
0.1 percent to 288.60 rupees in Mumbai trading as of 9:39 a.m.
Idea fell 1.9 percent to 126 rupees, while  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM)  declined 2.5 percent to 113.60 rupees. The
benchmark S&P BSE Sensex was up 0.6 percent.  The government may clarify on acquisition rules for service
providers as soon as this month. That could clear the way for
consolidation, possibly halving the number of carriers and
boosting profitability, said PricewaterhouseCoopers.  The government is also considering the date and floor price
for India’s next spectrum auction. This would be the first since
the government raised just 25 percent of their 400 billion rupee
revenue target through a pair of auctions in fiscal 2013. The
group of ministers needed to determine the details will meet
“in the next couple of weeks,” Sibal said.  “With a hugely liberal regime the sector is going to be a
sunrise sector again,” Sibal said. The worst is over, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  