-- Singapore’s GIC Said to Open Brazil Office as Investments Climb
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-06-10T10:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/singapore-s-gic-said-to-open-brazil-office-as-investments-climb.html
Government of Singapore Investment
Corp. , which manages more than $100 billion of the nation’s
reserves, is planning to open a  Sao Paulo  office next year after
investing in  Brazil , a person familiar with the matter said.  The sovereign wealth fund, known as GIC, has hired Gastao
Valente as senior vice president and Marcos Freitas as assistant
vice president for its Brazilian investments, the person said,
asking not to be identified as the information is confidential.
The two executives are now working at its  New York  office, the
person said. Mah Lay Choon, a GIC spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the plan.  GIC is opening the Sao Paulo office as it increases its
investments in Brazil. The fund is close to a deal to buy a 20
percent stake in BR Towers SA, a Brazilian operator of cellular
towers, two people with direct knowledge of the transaction said
in March, and it teamed up with its affiliate  Global Logistic
Properties Ltd. (GLP)  and two other state funds in November to buy
assets in Brazil for 2.9 billion real ($1.4 billion).  “ Latin America  and Brazil, in particular, are regions with
strong economic growth,” said Sven Behrendt, managing director
at Geneva-based political risk research and advisory firm
GeoEconomica. “It makes sense for a sovereign wealth fund to
position itself in that dynamic region.”  The Sao Paulo office will be the ninth for GIC, which also
has offices in London, Mumbai,  Shanghai , Beijing, Seoul, Tokyo,
 San Francisco  and New York, according to its  website .  Senior Vice President Adam Gallistel, who’s based in New
York, will remain as the head of Brazil for GIC Real Estate, the
person said, adding that no decision has been made on a
relocation to Sao Paulo.  Pere magazine reported the plans on its website earlier.  GIC is the world’s eighth-biggest state fund with an
estimated $248 billion of assets under management, according to
the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  