-- Sinopec Tumbles as Output Sinks Huaneng: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-06-10T21:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/sinopec-tumbles-as-output-sinks-huaneng-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities fell in New York
for the first time in three days, led by  China Petroleum and
Chemical Corp.  and  Huaneng (HNP)  Power International Inc., after
slower growth in industrial output and exports damped prospects
for expansion in the world’s largest developing economy.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. slid 0.9 percent to 89.37 yesterday,
after rising 0.5 percent last week.  China  Petroleum, Asia’s
biggest oil refiner, slumped for a fifth day as its units
announced plans to issue shares to existing holders.  Huaneng (902) 
tumbled to the lowest level since March, while  Semiconductor
Manufacturing International Corp. (981)  slid to a one-month low after
Credit Suisse Group AG cut its rating.  China’s industrial production rose a less-than-forecast 9.2
percent in May from a year earlier and factory-gate prices
dropped for a 15th month, according to government data released
over the weekend. Exports rose at the slowest pace in 10 months,
imports declined and new  yuan  loans shrank, signaling weaker
global and domestic demand after first-quarter expansion
unexpectedly slowed.  “The data is disappointing in that it really doesn’t show
a rebound commensurate with all the credit that was extended,”
Michael Wang, an emerging-markets strategist at Amiya Capital
LLP in  London , said by e-mail. “May credit data shows a
substantial drop off. Stocks of state-owned companies and banks
will be impacted.”  ETF Slumps  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., fell 0.9 percent in New York
to $35.35. The Standard and Poor’s 500 Index closed little
changed at 1,642.81, as investors weighed S&P’s move to boost
its outlook for America.  China’s May  industrial production  compared with a median
estimate for a 9.4 percent increase, with growth the weakest for
a January-May period since 2009. Fixed-asset investment
excluding rural areas rose 20.4 percent in the first five months
from a year earlier, down from a 20.6 percent pace in January-April, China’s statistics bureau data showed.  Retail sales 
growth of 12.9 percent in May matched the median projection of
analysts.  American depositary receipts of Beijing-based China
Petroleum, known as  Sinopec (SNP) , dropped 4.1 percent in New York to
$95.26, the lowest price since October, in its fifth day of
declines.  Sinopec units Sinopec  Shanghai  Petrochemical Co. and
Sinopec Yizheng Chemical Fibre Co. plan to increase their
tradable A-shares, the companies said in filings to Hong Kong
Stock Exchange June 7.  SMIC Retreats  Huaneng, China’s biggest electricity producer, lost 4.8
percent to $39.06, the lowest price since March 15. The ADRs
still traded at a 0.4 percent premium over its Hong Kong shares,
the highest in two weeks. Each ADR represents 40 underlying
shares in the Beijing-based company.  Semiconductor, a circuit foundry based in Shanghai and
known as SMIC, slid 2 percent to $3.96, the lowest level in a
month.  Credit Suisse analyst Randy Abrams cut the rating on SMIC
to neutral, equivalent to hold, from outperform yesterday,
saying the company’s upcoming investment cycle will curb
earnings.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , the biggest offshore oil explorer in China,
fell 1 percent to a one-week low of $173.87. Jefferies Group
analysts recommended in a note yesterday investors sell Cnooc,
citing earnings estimates, and buy PetroChina Co., the nation’s
biggest oil company.  ‘Complicated Factors’  Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said the nation’s economy is
being affected by more “complicated factors” while growth rate
remains in a “relatively high and reasonable” zone, according
to comments published on the government’s website June 8.  Analysts are paring gross domestic product growth estimates
for China. A Bloomberg News survey last month showed a median
projection of 7.8 percent for the year, down from an 8 percent
pace forecast in April.  Li’s remarks signal there won’t be any further stimulus to
grow the economy, Amiya Capital’s Wang said. “It does pose
downside risk to consensus GDP forecasts for the second half
should policy makers continue to pursue a tighter credit
policy.”  Suntech Power Holdings Co., the world’s biggest solar-panel
maker in 2011, jumped 15 percent to $1.04 in New York, leading a
rally among solar manufacturers. It had the biggest gain on the
China-U.S. gauge.  LightInTheBox Holding Co., which raised $78.9 million in
its U.S. initial public offering last week, extended its third
day of gains, surging 16 percent to $14.59, compared with its
IPO price of $9.5 per ADR.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slipped 0.6 percent
to 10,126.97, as a nine-day decline sent the gauge to the lowest
level since October. The Shanghai Composite dropped 1.4 percent
to a one-month low of 2,210.90 on June 7. The market is closed
for a public holiday and will reopen June 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  