-- Six Sentenced for Planning to Bomb English Defence League Rally
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-06-10T11:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/six-sentenced-for-planning-to-bomb-english-defence-league-rally.html
Six men were sentenced to as much as
19 years and six months in prison for plotting to attack a rally
of the English Defence League in the northern England city of
Dewsbury.  The men, Omar Khan, Jewel Uddin, Mohammed Hasseen, Mohammed
Saud, Zohaib Ahmed and Anzal Hussain, took weapons, including a
home-made bomb filled with nails and ball-bearings to an EDL
rally a year ago with the intention of causing “serious,
possibly fatal, injuries,” Judge Nicholas Hilliard  said  at a
court hearing in London today. The men pleaded guilty to
terrorism offenses in April.  “I am sure that what motivated each of you to commit this
offense must have run very deep indeed,” Hilliard said. “It
would have to have done so before anyone could even contemplate
committing it, leave alone engage in the preparations you did
and then actually set off to carry it out.”  The EDL, an anti-Islamic group, has attracted attention
after the killing of Lee Rigby, a soldier, outside a barracks in
London on May 22. Since the killing, anti-Muslim incidents have
averaged more than 26 a day in Britain, compared with a previous
average of four to six, according to Faith Matters, a non-profit
group that seeks to improve interfaith relations.  The plotters arrived at the EDL rally on June 30, 2012,
around two hours after the gathering had ended, and were unable
to carry out the attack. Hilliard said it was “inconceivable”
that they wouldn’t attempt the attack again.  Khan, Uddin and Ahmed were sentenced to 19 1/2 years in
jail, while Hasseen, Hussain and Saud received sentences of 18
years and nine months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  