-- Snowden Is in Hong Kong. Chinese Don’t Care.
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-06-10T21:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/snowden-is-in-hong-kong-chinese-don-t-care-.html
The  saga of Edward Snowden , the
source of leaks about the U.S. government’s Prism program, is
precisely the sort of tale  Hong Kong ’s tabloid newspaper culture
has always embraced: full of suspense, driven by personality and
sure to bring people back to buy the next day’s edition. But
while Hong Kong’s newspapers are busy combing the city for
Snowden, mainland Chinese papers -- and the country’s usually
scandal-loving social media -- are covering  other stories .  What might account for the indifference?  To start with, for Chinese social-media users, surveillance
of communications, electronic and otherwise, is a given. What
might sound like a horrifying transgression of basic civil
rights to an American comes off as a comparatively benign state
of affairs to a young Chinese Internet user. Prism hasn’t
trended on Chinese social media or search engines.  This is not unknown to the Communist Party-owned media, and
it’s probably a reason they’ve avoided Prism over the last
several days. Why hype a story that serves to remind Chinese
 Internet users  that the surveillance to which they’ve become
accustomed is so much worse than what Americans experience?
Indeed, Chinese media -- and the Communist Party that controls
it -- is unusually sensitive to unfavorable comparisons with
other people and places, and none so much as Hong Kong.  The semi-autonomous city-state has been Chinese territory
since 1997, but in recent years its residents have become
increasingly alienated from the Communist Party and its
influence on their affairs. Last week  more than 50,000 mourners 
turned out for the annual vigil for the victims of the 1989
Tiananmen Square massacre. In Beijing, it’s impossible to
organize such a vigil, much less execute it.  Displays like those might just convince a prospective
asylum-seeker that Hong Kong offers safety. Snowden told the
Guardian  that Hong Kong has  “a spirited commitment to free
speech and the right of political dissent.” There were plenty of
voices eager to  quibble with that assessment of Hong Kong’s
freedoms . But not even the most jaded Hong Kong observer -- or
hardened Beijing newspaper editor -- can deny that Hong Kong is
less of a surveillance state, and freer, than its political
master.  For Chinese newspaper editors, the choice is thus whether
to downplay a good spy story happening just across the border or
risk highlighting how Hong Kong citizens enjoy a freer political
environment. Then again, the Snowden story has been widely
available on  China ’s Internet since early Monday morning, and
Internet users -- with some  exceptions  -- still don’t seem to
care very much. This is really a story about a martyr for rights
enjoyed by Americans, not Chinese.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the World View blog
and a contributor to the Ticker.  Follow  him on Twitter.)
 