-- Soccer Referees Convicted in Sex-for-Match-Fixing Case
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-06-10T07:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/soccer-referees-convicted-in-sex-for-match-fixing-case.html
Three Lebanese soccer officials were
convicted of corruption in  Singapore  after pleading guilty in a
case involving the trading of sexual favors to fix matches.  Subordinate Courts Judge Low Wee Ping today sentenced
assistant referees Ali Eid and Abdallah Taleb each to three
months in jail, and reserved his decision on referee Ali Sabbagh
until tomorrow. Each of the three received sexual services
valued at S$500 ($400) from a businessman in Singapore to fix
matches, according to Asoka Markandu, the prosecutor.  “The Singapore public has an interest in preserving
football as a professional sport in Singapore,” Low said.
“Singapore is proud to have an almost corruption-free
society.”  Europol and police were probing attempts to fix more than
380 games, including  World Cup  and European Championship
qualifiers, with involvement from a Singapore-based operation,
 Europe ’s law enforcement agency  said  in February. The corruption
charges, filed after Europol’s report, carry a maximum jail term
of five years and a fine of as much as S$100,000.  “They’ve tarnished the reputation of FIFA,” Asoka said,
referring to the  Federation Internationale de Football
Association , soccer’s governing body. The three traded
sportsmanship for sexual favors and damaged the integrity of the
“beautiful game,” the prosecutor said.  First-Time Offenders  The men entered a guilty plea today after earlier intending
to stand trial to contest the charges. All are first-time
offenders and received no financial benefit, said Gary Low,
their lawyer.  The businessman, Ding Si Yang, had told Sabbagh he could
make more money in a year through fixing matches than as a
referee in 10 years, the prosecutor said. Sabbagh, a sports
teacher in Lebanon, earned $850 a month, and all three men are
willing to testify against Ding, the lawyer said.  Sabbagh shouldn’t be jailed for more than six months, the
lawyer told the judge.  “I don’t accept that you should be sentenced to only six
months,” Judge Low told Sabbagh.  The men were scheduled to officiate an April 3  Asian
Football Confederation  Cup game in Singapore. They were replaced
before the match between Singapore-based Tampines Rovers and
East Bengal, which won 4-2 in a game that included an own goal
by the Rovers.  Low, the lawyer, was hired to represent the men by the
Lebanese Football Association. The men officiate in the top
Lebanese league and AFC games, and have overseen matches between
national teams, the association’s President Hachem Haydar said
April 5.  FIFA also  suspended  people in  Italy ,  South Korea  and  China 
in February for allegedly being involved in rigging games.  The criminal cases are Public Prosecutor v Ali Sabbagh,
DAC11104/2013, Public Prosecutor v Ali Eid, DAC11106/2013 and
Public Prosecutor v Abdallah Taleb, DAC11105/2013, Singapore
Subordinate Courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  