-- Sony Holdings Blurred by Third Point Swaps, Goldman Bonds
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2013-06-11T08:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/sony-holdings-blurred-by-third-point-swaps-goldman-bonds.html
Billionaire  Daniel Loeb  proposed a
breakup of  Sony Corp. (6758)  after saying his hedge fund was its
largest owner. Data from Sony, a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
vehicle and Japan’s  Finance Ministry  don’t support that claim.  As Sony board members deliberate on  Third Point  LLC’s call
for an initial public offering of part of its entertainment
assets, shareholdings in the Japanese company are clouded by
Third Point’s use of cash-settled swaps and convertible bonds
held by Signum Coral Ltd., a special-purpose company set up by
Goldman Sachs to repackage a 2012 convertible bond sale.  Third Point has “exposure” to about 64 million Sony
shares, according to a letter from Loeb to Sony Chief Executive
Officer  Kazuo Hirai  last month. The stake, which equates to
about 6.3 percent of the Japanese company’s stock, doesn’t show
up in regulatory filings and is less than the 8.9 percent
holding announced by Signum Coral.  “As convertible bonds and swaps are complicated
transactions, it’s becoming difficult to know Sony’s shareholder
structure,” said  Mitsushige Akino , chief  fund manager  at
Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co.  Tokyo .  Shareholdings of more than 5 percent of a company have to
be reported to Japan’s Ministry of Finance. Third Point hasn’t
lodged a notice with the government that its stake exceeds that
threshold, according to a search of filings.  The New York-based hedge fund used cash-settled swaps for
about 38 percent of its investment, according to the May 14
letter. Japan’s disclosure requirement is exempted if the
investor uses a structure that doesn’t transfer  voting rights ,
according to the Financial Services Agency.  Weaker Voice  “It would somewhat weaken the voice of Mr. Loeb” if he
wasn’t the biggest owner of Sony, said Tetsuro Ii, president of
Commons Asset Management Inc. in Tokyo.  Elissa Doyle, a New York-based spokeswoman for Third Point,
declined to comment on its holding or any changes to its
investment.  Sony hasn’t confirmed a large-volume holding from Third
Point, Yuki Shima, a Sony spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail. The
company’s annual investor meeting is scheduled for June 20.  Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Nomura Holdings Inc.
and SMBC Nikko Capital Markets Ltd. were hired to manage last
year’s 150 billion-yen ($1.5 billion) sale of Sony convertible
bonds.  The zero-coupon bonds can be converted into 157 million
Sony shares at 957 yen apiece, the Tokyo-based company said in
an e-mailed statement last month. If the bonds were redeemed
fully, the shares issued would be equivalent to about 13 percent
of an enlarged Sony’s stock on issue.  Bond Sale  The note rose 2 percent to 213.20 yen per 100 yen face
value as of 2:59 p.m. in Tokyo, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.
prices.  Goldman Sachs purchased convertible bonds on the secondary
market and the special vehicle was set up to hold them and sell
financial products after separating the debt from the equity
option, according to a Dec. 7 statement by the investment bank.
That vehicle was Signum Coral, according to Signum’s filing to
 Japan ’s finance bureau the same day.  Signum Coral sold a credit product to investors and,
separately, options for repurchasing the convertible bonds,
according to the  statement .  Signum Coral, which holds the part of the convertibles that
investors haven’t exercised their rights to repurchase, reduced
its Sony stake to 8.91 percent from 10.48 percent, according to
a document filed to Japan’s Ministry of Finance on June 4.  Premature Speculation  Sony, maker of PlayStation game consoles, planned to use
proceeds of the bond sale to invest in image sensors, repay
short-term debts and fund acquisitions, the company said in
November.  Loeb is pushing Hirai to sell as much as 20 percent of the
entertainment assets, saying the move would help the company
boost its stock price and raise cash. Sony  shares  rose 2.2
percent to close at 2,023 yen in Tokyo  trading  today. They have
risen 7.8 percent since Third Point’s proposal was announced.  Sony will look closely at the proposal, though it’s
premature to speculate on the  board ’s decision, Hirai said at a
conference last month in  Rancho Palos Verdes ,  California . An IPO
of its entertainment operations would help the world’s third-largest TV maker focus on its unprofitable electronics
businesses, Loeb said in the May 14 letter.  “The investor probably wanted to look bigger than it is
for the sake of negotiation,” said  Yoku Ihara , an  investment
adviser  at Retela Crea Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Yahoo! Revamp  Loeb’s Sony stake was valued at about 115 billion yen,
according to his letter. Of that amount, 71 billion yen is in
“direct ownership” while the rest is in cash-settled swaps, it
said.  The 51-year-old Loeb said his firm would underwrite a
rights offering in the entertainment unit that would give
shareholders the opportunity to participate. Third Point, which
manages more than $13 billion, would be willing to buy up as
much as $2 billion of the offering if there isn’t demand
elsewhere, according to the letter.  Loeb started Third Point in 1995 with $3 million of assets
under management after gaining expertise in private equity,
distressed debt, sales and trading during careers at financial
firms including Citigroup Inc., according to Third Point.  Loeb is a director of Yahoo! Inc. and Third Point owns a
stake in the Web portal. He was instrumental in pushing for the
ouster of CEO  Scott Thompson , which paved the way for the
appointment of  Marissa Mayer  in July 2012.  Third Point also owns stakes in  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  and
Virgin Media Inc., according to its monthly report for April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  