-- South Sudan Leader Labels Sudan Oil Threat a Declaration of War
-- B y   M a d i n g   N g o r   a n d   M i c h a e l   G u n n
-- 2013-06-10T14:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/south-sudan-leader-labels-sudan-oil-threat-a-declaration-of-war.html
South Sudanese President  Salva Kiir 
said Sudan’s threat to halt its oil exports amounted to a
declaration of war and reiterated his government’s denial that
it supports rebels in the neighboring country.  Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir on June 8 said he was
ordering a halt to oil flows from South Sudan because his
government has evidence that the south is backing renegade
fighters in the western region of Darfur and the southern states
of Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile. The shutdown will take place
within 60 days unless the support ends, Sudanese Information
Minister Ahmed Bilal Osman said yesterday.  “President Bashir is declaring war indirectly,” Kiir told
reporters today in the capital, Juba. “We don’t want war.”  Landlocked South  Sudan  exports all of its crude via
pipelines that traverse Sudan to Port Sudan on the Red Sea.
South Sudan seceded in July 2011 and took three-quarters of the
formerly united country’s  output  of 490,000 barrels a day.  A dispute last year over how much South Sudan should pay
for the transport resulted in its production being shut down for
15 months. Output resumed in April. The nation’s largest field,
Palouge in Upper Nile state, started pumping 120,000 barrels a
day last month and is expected to reach its full capacity of
250,000 barrels a day by September, Oil Minister Stephen Dhieu
Dau said May 6.  Brent crude, the benchmark price for more than half the
world’s oil, traded 0.6 percent lower at $103.92 a barrel at
2:38 p.m. in  London  today. The July contract closed at $104.56
on June 7, the highest settlement since May 20.  Cooperation Agreements  The support for the rebels undermines cooperation accords
signed between the two nations last year and for which a
timeframe was agreed in March, Osman told reporters yesterday in
the capital, Khartoum.  “It is clear that the purpose of supporting the rebels is
to bring down the regime, which is why we have to stop the
petrol,” he said. “We asked them to stop their support so that
it wouldn’t affect all the agreements that were signed.” The
decision to halt the oil flows may be reversed if South Sudan
stops backing the rebels, he said.  South Sudan has yet to be officially notified about the
planned shutdown, Kiir said today, while calling for dialogue to
address Sudan’s grievances and reiterating his government’s
denial that it supports any rebels in Sudan.  “We must always remain firm that we’re not supporting the
rebels in these areas,” he said. “It’s not true.”  Border Troops  Kiir also refused to withdraw government troops from the
border town of Joda in South Sudan’s northeastern Upper Nile
state, where he said 10 oil wells are located.  “We will not accept to give an inch of South Sudanese
territory and will be ready to go to war over it,” he said.  South Sudanese army spokesman Philip Aguer yesterday
accused Sudan of deploying troops in Upper Nile state. The
presence of the Sudanese forces is “unacceptable,” he said
told reporters in Juba.  Oil in South Sudan is pumped mainly by China National
Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd., known also
as Petronas, and  India ’s  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  Prior to the
January 2012 shutdown, the country depended on crude exports for
98 percent of government revenue.  Sudan’s threat to halt oil flows follows a warning by
Bashir in May when he said his government would close oil
pipelines from South Sudan “forever” if the neighboring state
backs rebels in the western Sudanese region of Darfur and the
Blue Nile and Southern Kordofan states.  Mercenaries  “Sudan won’t allow revenue from oil exports from South
Sudan to be used for buying arms for rebels and mercenaries,”
Bashir said at a ceremony on June 8 to mark the opening of an
electricity plant on the outskirts of Khartoum. The remarks were
broadcast on state television.  Clashes began more than 18 months ago in Southern Kordofan
and Blue Nile between Sudanese government troops and the SPLM-N
rebels who fought alongside the forces of South Sudan during the
civil war. The fighting has displaced more than 1 million
people, according to the United Nations.  The SPLM-N has also formed an alliance with three insurgent
groups in Darfur to create a “viable democratic alternative”
to Bashir’s government, the Small Arms Survey, a research group
at the Graduate Institute of International and Development
Studies in Geneva, said in an April 2012 report.  South Sudan has sought to reduce its reliance on Sudan for
oil shipments by announcing plans to build a pipeline either via
neighboring  Ethiopia  to an export terminal in Djibouti, or to a
port being built at Lamu on  Kenya ’s coast.  The country can export its oil via Kenya or Djibouti “or
wherever they want to take it,” Bashir said.  Sudan plans to begin importing oil from  Iraq , payment for
which will be deferred,  Oil Review Africa , a London-based
magazine, reported on June 6, citing Investment Minister Mustafa
Osman Ismail. Sudan produces about 130,000 barrels of crude per
day, which is insufficient to meet domestic demand, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Gunn in Nairobi at 
 mgunn14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  