-- Stanley Cup Finals Feature Original Six Blackhawks-Bruins Battle
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-10T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/stanley-cup-finals-feature-original-six-blackhawks-bruins-battle.html
The  Chicago Blackhawks  and  Boston
Bruins  will meet in the first Stanley Cup finals since 1979 to
match two National Hockey League franchises from the group of
teams called the Original Six.  The Blackhawks host the Bruins in Game 1 of the NHL’s best-of-seven championship series on June 12 after winning their
respective conference titles.  Chicago and Boston were among the six teams -- along with
the  Montreal Canadiens ,  Toronto Maple Leafs ,  New York Rangers 
and  Detroit Red Wings  -- that played in the NHL from 1942
through 1967, when the league expanded by adding six more clubs.
The last time two Original Six franchises played for the Stanley
Cup was 34 years ago, when Montreal beat the Rangers.  “The tradition of the Bruins and the Hawks is special,”
Blackhawks coach Joel Quenneville told reporters. “I’m sure the
rivalry could return instantly come Game 1. It’s good for the
league. It’s good for hockey. Two great hockey markets. We’re
very excited to be a part of it.”  The Blackhawks are favored to win their fifth  Stanley Cup 
title, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book, with
bettors having to wager $145 to make a $100 profit. A winning
$100 bet on the Bruins would return $125.  The Blackhawks and Bruins didn’t meet during the regular
season, which because of a lockout was shortened to 48 games and
limited to intraconference matchups.  “I think everybody was speculating that at the beginning
of the year, how was that going to play out,” Quenneville said.
“I’m sure we got to see Boston quite a bit. I’m sure they
watched every bit of our games.”  Best Record  The Blackhawks, who had the best record in the NHL during
the regular season at 36-7-5, won the Western Conference title
by beating the defending Stanley Cup-champion Los Angeles Kings
four games to one. Chicago eliminated the Kings with a 4-3
double-overtime victory in Game 5 on June 8.  The Bruins, the fourth seed in the East, swept the top-seeded  Pittsburgh Penguins  in the conference finals to reach the
championship round.  Boston captured its sixth Stanley Cup title following the
2010-11 season, a year after Chicago won its fourth.  “It never gets old. It’s always a great feeling to be back
in the finals,” Bruins center  Chris Kelly  told reporters after
Game 5 against the Kings. “You never take it for granted
because it is a difficult thing to have happen and we’re
fortunate to be back in such a short time.”  Both teams have been pushed to overtime wins in decisive
seventh games this postseason.  The Blackhawks overcame a 3-1 series deficit during the
second round against the  Red Wings  and beat Detroit 2-1 in
overtime of Game 7. The Bruins were 5-4 overtime winners against
the Maple Leafs in Game 7 of their first-round series.  “Every team that makes it far can look back at a turning
point where you had a game that gave them that extra jolt they
needed,” Bruins coach Claude Julien said. “That was the case
for us this year. We could have been watching from afar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  