-- State Department Handling of Sex-Assault Claims Reviewed
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-06-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/state-department-handling-of-allegations-under-review.html
The U.S. State Department’s ability
to investigate wrongdoing by employees is being reviewed after a
report of cover-ups of alleged criminal activity, including
sexual assaults, the use of prostitutes by security staff and an
ambassador suspected of trolling a park for sex.  The department’s Bureau of Diplomatic Security has
requested a “review by outside, experienced law enforcement
officers” who are working with the inspector general’s office
to “make expert assessments about our current procedures,”
spokeswoman  Jen Psaki  told reporters in  Washington  yesterday.  An internal memo obtained  by CBS News  from the department’s
inspector general listed eight examples of alleged wrongdoing by
agency staff or contractors. Among them were allegations that a
security official in  Beirut  committed sexual assaults on foreign
nationals, that members of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s security detail engaged prostitutes while on official
travel and that an ambassador who “routinely ditched” his
security detail was suspected by auditors of doing so in order
to solicit prostitutes.  In addition, a drug ring operating near the U.S. embassy in
 Baghdad  allegedly supplied contractors working there.  “We take allegations of misconduct seriously, and we
investigate thoroughly,” Psaki said. “All cases mentioned in
the CBS report were thoroughly investigated” or are under
investigation, and “the department continues to take action.”  Internal State Department investigations are conducted by
the Diplomatic Security service, the law enforcement arm that
protects Secretary of State John Kerry as well as ambassadors
abroad.  Integrity Undermined  “Hindering such cases calls into question the integrity of
the investigative process, can result in counterintelligence
vulnerabilities and can allow criminal behavior to continue,”
according to the inspector general’s memo cited by CBS.  The department “would never condone any undue influence on
any report or investigation,” Psaki said.  Representative Ed Royce, chairman of the House Foreign
Affairs Committee, said he was “appalled” at the alleged
misconduct and interference described in the CBS report. The
California Republican said he had asked congressional staff
members to begin an investigation.  “The notion that any or all of the cases contained in news
reports would not be investigated thoroughly by the department
is unthinkable,” Royce said in an e-mailed statement, adding
that he planned to raise the matter with Kerry.  February Report  An inspector general’s report in February found failings in
the  Diplomatic Security  bureau’s ability to investigate problems
within the State Department. The security service “lacks
clearly stated professional investigative standards for
investigative functions,” according to the report.  It said that “independence, both in fact and appearance,
from undue influence by higher authorities concerning the
opening and conduct of cases” is an essential standard and
Diplomatic Security’s investigative division “does not have
that independence.”  The report CBS cited was compiled by members of the
inspector general’s office, including Aurelia Fedenisn. She
worked there from August 9, 2010, to Dec. 31, 2012, according to
Douglas Welty, a spokesman for the office.  Fedenisn told CBS that Diplomatic Security officers in the
special investigations division told her and others about
“allegations of criminal wrongdoing and cases, some of which
never became cases.”  ‘Very Upset’  “We were very upset,” Fedenisn told CBS. “We expect to
see influence, but the degree to which that influence existed
and how high up it went was very disturbing.”  State Department agents were told to stop investigating the
case of the ambassador who regularly ditched his security patrol
and was suspected of seeing prostitutes in a public park,
according to the memo as cited by CBS.  The ambassador was called to Washington for a meeting with
Under Secretary Patrick Kennedy and subsequently returned to his
posting, CBS said, citing sources it didn’t identify.  The inspector general’s memo also said that visits to
prostitutes by members of Clinton’s security detail were
“endemic,” according to the news report.  Four Diplomatic Security agents got a one-day suspension
and others were admonished regarding alleged visits to
prostitutes, according to CBS.  In advance of an April 2012 trip to Colombia that Clinton
went on with President  Barack Obama , members of the president’s
Secret Service detail were caught frequenting local prostitutes.
Nine were found to have engaged in “serious misconduct.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  