-- Swedish Credit Drives Frenzy in Dragon Tattoo Quarter
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-06-11T08:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/swedish-credit-drives-frenzy-in-dragon-tattoo-quarter.html
One of Stockholm’s most popular
attractions is a guided tour of the Soedermalm district streets
featured in Stieg Larsson’s bestselling book “The Girl With The
 Dragon Tattoo .” Buying a home in the former working-class
neighborhood is far less accessible.  A one-bedroom, 55-square meter (592-square feet) apartment
in Hoegalidsgatan, in the neighborhood where Larsson’s troubled
heroine Lisbeth Salander grew up, sold last month for 3.75
million kronor ($569,000), 17 percent above the listing price,
after a bidding war involving nine parties.  That level of demand is typical in the Swedish capital,
where a shortage of construction, a population boom and mortgage
rates below 3 percent have pushed prices in central Stockholm up
35 percent since early 2009. Borrowing for home purchases has in
turn fueled record  household debt  across the country. That’s
sparking concern among policy makers over potential damage to the
economy and preventing the central bank from cutting rates, even
as Sweden’s exporters say action must be taken to weaken the
currency to protect thousands of jobs.  “If you combine low home construction with good access to
financing, prices will rise,” Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves
said in an interview in Stockholm on May 27. Sweden needs to
“in one way or another increase the supply of homes since we’ve
had very low home construction for a very long time,” said
Ingves, who’s warned about the risks of rising household debt.  Surging Prices  With the three-month home loan rate at Sweden’s largest
mortgage lender  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  at 2.94 percent, its lowest level
since November 2010, apartment prices across the country have
jumped 11 percent in the past 12 months. In Stockholm, where
more than a fifth of the country’s 9.6 million population live,
they jumped 9 percent and in Gothenburg, Sweden’s second-largest
city, prices are 13 percent higher, according to data from
Svensk Maeklarstatistik.  That’s left the Riksbank struggling to contain the growth
in debt, which has reached a record average of 174 percent of
disposable incomes. The  International Monetary Fund  last month
recommended Sweden increase mortgage restrictions to prevent a
housing bubble and stop  consumer debt  from spiraling out of
control. At the current pace of amortization, Swedish households
will need 140 years on average to repay their home loans.  Sweden and Finland are the most likely places in Europe to
see a property crash and “we should soon see a correction in
prices,” Commerzbank AG said in a May 17 report. Danske Bank
A/S, which has endured housing busts in both Denmark and
Ireland, said in March that residential properties in Sweden are
above their fundamental value by more than 20 percent. It sees a
5 percent decline in prices this year and 2.5 percent in 2014.  Millennium Tours  So far, there are few signs in Stockholm of the market
weakening.  The Soedermalm apartment, housed in a grey building from
the early 1900s, close to where  tourists  follow in the footsteps
of Salander and financial journalist Mikael Blomkvist from the
“Millennium” books and films, sold for $10,341 a square meter.
According to Svensk Maeklarstatistik, that’s about 10 percent
higher than the average in central Stockholm, which is among the
most expensive cities in Europe.  By comparison, in Helsinki it costs 5,340 euros ($7,058)
per square meter for three-room apartments in its most central
neighborhood last year. In London, the price of a “mainstream
apartment” is $12,254 per square meter, while in Paris it’s
$7,281, according to data compiled by  Knight Frank .  ‘No Construction’  “Supply is low, demand is very high,  interest rates  are
low and Stockholm is growing,” Magnus Holmberg, the owner of
real estate agent Innerstadsspecialisten, said by telephone.
“There is pretty much no construction while demand is just
continuing to increase, which makes us different from other
countries -- there are no empty apartments in Stockholm.”  When his real estate agency recently sold a studio
apartment in the fashionable Oestermalm area, a bidding war
pushed the price 23 percent above the accepted selling price.
The 36-square-meter apartment in Skeppargatan, located near the
Nybroviken harbor in central Stockholm where steam-boats take
tourists out into the archipelago, sold for  3.2 million kronor ,
or 88,888 kronor per square meter.  So much of Stockholm’s rental-housing stock has been
transformed into ownership apartments in recent years, there’s
also a lack of homes to rent, which is helping to push up
prices. Regulation that limits homeowners’ ability to rent out
their homes to other people is exacerbating the lack of rentals.  Other Options  A government report published in December last year
concluded that Swedish law, including regulation on rent levels
that sets similar rents on apartments of similar models with
little consideration to their geographical location, has
contributed to the lack of rental housing in the country.  “The market conditions that lead to uncertain
profitability calculations have inhibited willingness to invest
in rental housing even in areas with high demand and have made
other investment options more attractive,” it said. “It has
only been possible to realize the land-value through conversions
from rental accommodation to tenant-owned housing.”  The number of rental apartments in central Stockholm
slumped 45 percent to 65,000 between 1990 and 2011, while the
number of tenant-owned apartments has more than doubled to
120,000 from 48,000 as rentals were converted, according to the
report. Tenant-owned apartments made up 65 percent of all flats
in central Stockholm in 2011, compared with 29 percent in 1990.  ‘Must Buy’  “In Sweden, you typically have only one apartment and our
subletting market is basically closed,” Holmberg said. “There
are hardly any rental apartments, which means people in
Stockholm must buy their apartments.”  That’s shut many young people and low-income earners out of
the city’s property market, including areas like Soedermalm that
historically were a cheaper option. Instead they’re forced to
live in sublet apartments and often for short periods --
heightening the growing divide between rich and poor.  Last month, riots raged for almost a week in Stockholm’s
outer suburbs, where most of the population is made up of
immigrants and  unemployment  is more than twice the national
average. Youths burned cars and schools and attacked police and
 emergency services  in a show of anger attributed to social
exclusion, joblessness and poverty.  At the Riksbank, soaring debt levels,  income inequality  and
 home prices  aren’t the only concerns. Sweden’s  export-reliant 
economy is also suffering from slumping demand in the wake of
the debt crisis in Europe, to which the country ships about 70
percent of its exports. Exacerbating the problem is the krona,
which has soared 26 percent against the euro since March 2009
after Sweden became a haven from Europe’s fiscal woes.  Job Losses  Holmen AB (HOLMB) , which exports 90 percent of its output and ships
most of it to Europe, is cutting 510 jobs at its mills in Sweden
because of weak demand in Europe and the currency level. Jan Johansson, chief executive officer of Europe’s largest paper-tissue maker,  Svenska Cellulosa AB (SCAB) , said in March that the
currency is forcing the company to cut costs and decrease the
number of employees, while  Sandvik AB (SAND) ’s CEO Olof Faxander said a
month later the krona’s high level may affect where the company
makes future investments.  So far, the Riksbank has argued it has little choice but to
keep interest rates at 1 percent, given the potential effect a
cut would have on household debt and property prices.  While measures such as capping mortgages at 85 percent of a
property’s value have helped slow borrowing growth from levels
above 10 percent between 2004 and 2008, household lending still
expanded by an annual 4.6 percent in April. The Riksbank
forecasts that private debt as a percentage of disposable
incomes will jump to 177 percent in early 2015.  Property Demand  Swedes aren’t showing much indication they’re losing their
appetite for buying property. A survey by SEB on June 10 showed
that 55 percent believe  house prices  will rise in the coming
year, while 17 percent said they expect a decline.  “We have strong urbanization in Sweden and we have a
rather big lack of homes in the big cities, which pushes prices
higher,” Riksbank Deputy Governor Karolina Ekholm said in a May
30 presentation at the National Museum of Economy in Stockholm.
“We have had exceptionally low  home construction  in Sweden and
it is still low, which is one factor that pushes prices up.”  The number of new apartments fell an annual 23 percent last
year,  Statistics Sweden  said on  April 3 .  That’s not necessarily dictating prices, Par Magnusson,
chief economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
Stockholm, said in a May 15 telephone interview. Instead, it’s
about a shortage of housing that people are prepared to pay for,
evident in the large number of unsold apartments in parts of
Stockholm, he said.  Cutting Prices  Construction company JM AB has been forced to cut prices on
some projects by as much as 25 percent, with parts of Stockholm
and the southern county of Skaane, home to the city of Malmoe,
the worst affected.  NCC AB (NCCB)  has cut prices on three projects in Stockholm,
Skaane and Vaestra Goetaland county, where Gothenburg is
located, by as much as 12 percent, magazine Affaersvaerlden
reported on May 17.  A situation with available housing that people aren’t
prepared to pay for leads to a paradox because on the one hand
the city wants people to move there to sustain growth, and on
the other it wants to avoid a price correction on existing
housing that is likely to happen if cheaper housing is
constructed, Magnusson said.  Discount Effect  Prices have also risen in both high and low density areas
in the past decade as the country shifted to cheaper  mortgage
rates , increasing the amount that people can spend on housing.
That discount effect isn’t unique to Sweden, Magnusson said.  The equivalent to the three-month lending rate at Swedbank
was 5.95 percent just before Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. filed
for bankruptcy in September 2008. It stood at 11.1 percent in
 July 1995 .  The low rate level is sustaining property prices and is one
reason why Sweden doesn’t display any visible signs of house
price corrections, like the ones experienced by Spain and
Denmark, Statistics Sweden said on  April 3 . Migration to big
cities is also helping, the statistics office said.  City Growth  Stockholm will grow by 400,000 to 450,000 people in 15 to
20 years, according to  Citycon Oyj (CTY1S)  Chief executive Officer
Marcel Kokkeel, explaining why the Finnish retail property
manager and owner of Stockholm’s Kista Galleria shopping mall,
is focusing its future growth on Sweden.  “The spending power here is among the highest in Europe,”
he said. “It’s only a matter of time before international
brands will enter, and should enter, the region.”  Still, solving the housing situation is crucial to sustain
growth, Fredrik Johansson, head of analysis and policy at
Stockholm’s Chamber of Commerce, said in an interview.  The city should ease building rules for construction
companies so that they don’t have to adjust every project to
specific municipal regulation, he said. A report by housing
companies Riksbyggen and HSB on June 11 said that Stockholm’s
gross regional product may be cut by 120 billion kronor between
2010 and 2030 if the lack of housing in the Swedish capital
isn’t addressed.  Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  in March also proposed
making it easier and cheaper to build new housing by reducing
taxes, cutting planning and construction times and reducing the
number of regulatory hurdles.  “Recruiting competent people is the big issue for our
member companies and if these people don’t have anywhere to
live, it will be devastating for our members and for Stockholm’s
economic development,” Johansson said. “The housing situation
is Stockholm’s single, biggest issue to worry about.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net  