-- Stocks in Switzerland Are Little Changed; Zurich Falls
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-06-10T16:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/swiss-stocks-advance-led-by-novartis-roche-shares.html
Stocks (SMI)  in  Switzerland  were little
changed, after the biggest advance in six weeks for the Swiss
Market Index last week.  Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN)  paced declining shares as
JPMorgan Chase & Co. downgraded the shares. AMS AG plunged 17
percent after the company lowered its earnings outlook.  Novartis
AG (NOVN)  climbed after a company-funded study found that multiple
sclerosis patients benefited from switching to the drugmaker’s
Gilenya treatment.  The benchmark SMI rose less than 0.1 percent to 7,790.55 at
the close in Zurich. The gauge rallied 2.1 percent on June 7,
its biggest jump since April 23, boosted by a better-than-estimated U.S. employment report. The broader Swiss Performance
Index also added 0.1 percent today.  “The global growth story is by and large intact,” said
Jeremy Batstone-Carr, head of research at Charles Stanley Group
Plc in  London . “No one really wants to buy on the dips or sell
the rallies, it’s steady as you go. The most encouraging piece
of news really for equities is the fact that the trend in global
earnings revisions appears to have troughed.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the SMI
was 33 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Zurich Insurance fell 1 percent to 244.4 Swiss francs after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. lowered its recommendation for the company
to underweight from neutral.  AMS tumbled 17 percent to 71.25 francs, its biggest drop
since January 2008. The Austrian maker of analog semiconductors
said operating profit will probably fall this year as clients
delay orders.  AMS (AMS) , whose clients included Apple Inc., didn’t say
which companies delayed orders, saying some of the contracts for
new products with higher margins.  Schmolz & Bickenbach AG dropped 2.6 percent to 2.98 francs
after rallying 4.8 percent in the past two days of trading. The
company today said it is focusing more on its steel-production
units to help improve earnings by 230 million euros ($303
million) and said it is examining strategic options for the
German part of its distribution business.  Novartis increased 0.8 percent to 67.75 francs. A company-funded study found that patients taking interferon, a standard
treatment for multiple sclerosis, benefited from switching to
the Swiss drugmaker’s Gilenya drug. The research found that
annualized relapse rates fell by more than 50 percent after one
year for patients who had made the switch.  Roche (ROG)  Holding AG gained 0.7 percent to 233.10 pence after
the company’s arthritis drug Roactemra was approved for use in
the European Union. The company said it got the approval earlier
than it expected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  