-- U.K. Water Profit Amid Tax Raises ‘Moral Questions’: Cox
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-06-10T15:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/u-k-water-profit-amid-tax-raises-moral-questions-cox.html
The profits that water companies
earn and tax structures they use to boost returns while consumer
bills rise raises “moral questions,” the U.K.’s water industry
regulator chief wrote in the Telegraph newspaper.  “I agree that the dichotomy between profits and the prices
charged to customers raises business, regulatory and moral
questions,” Ofwat Chairman Jonson Cox said in a commentary in
the British paper.  Cox’s remarks came as Kemble Water Holdings Ltd.’s Thames
Water unit, British’s biggest water company, today reported a
5.7 percent gain in annual revenue to 1.79 billion pounds ($2.8
billion) on pretax profit of 144.9 million pounds as bills rose
6.7 percent and said it paid no  corporation tax  in the year, its
liabilities offset by investing in infrastructure and upgrades.  Privately held Thames Water, with 14 million customers
mostly in London, said it contributed about 150 million pounds
in other taxes and that bad-debt charges climbed 33 percent in
the year to 93.7 million pounds. It cut its dividend to 231.4
million pounds this year from 279.5 million pounds.  The chairman’s comments come as the regulator prepares to
publish next year the prices U.K. water companies can charge
consumers for water and sewer services from 2015 to 2020. They
also focus attention on an approach by a group including a
Canada infrastructure investor and a Kuwait sovereign wealth
fund to take over  Severn Trent Plc (SVT) , one of three remaining
publicly traded water companies of the 10 largest in the U.K.  Industry Privatization  Cox, who held posts at Yorkshire Water parent Kelda Group
Ltd. and led Anglian Water Group Ltd, said he’s reviewing how
the watchdog regulates water utilities after privatizations
changed the industry’s structure in the past six years. He said
he would also press for improved governance for companies to
comply with U.K. corporate governance code on tax structures.  “In our discussions with unlisted companies, we have yet
to find a company that fully complies or satisfactorily explains
why not,” he wrote.  Cox said some water utilities are taking out yearly
dividends of as much as 24 percent of their regulatory equity
and noted “morally questionable” aspects to utilities
allegedly using shareholder loans to avoid U.K. taxation.  “Maintaining trust in this unique industry is a duty we
all owe to government and customers,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  