-- U.K. Energy Committee Chairman Steps Aside Amid Lobbying Probe
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-06-10T20:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/u-k-energy-committee-chairman-steps-aside-amid-lobbying-probe.html
Tim Yeo , chairman of the U.K.
Parliament’s Energy Committee, said he’ll step aside from the
role while an investigation looks at whether he broke rules
governing the conduct of Members of Parliament.  Yeo on June 9 denied he’d coached a witness who was
preparing to give evidence at one of Yeo’s own hearings, after
undercover journalists recorded him saying he had.  Secret video
shot by the Sunday Times  showed the Conservative lawmaker and
former minister offering his services to people claiming to be
from a solar panel manufacturer. He said he would be able to
introduce them to ministers and other contacts.  In an e-mailed statement today, Yeo said he will tell the
committee tomorrow morning that he wishes to “temporarily stand
aside” from the chairmanship while the Parliamentary
Commissioner for Standards investigates.  “I firmly believe that I have not breached the MPs Code of
Conduct in any respect and therefore await the outcome of the
Commissioner’s investigation with confidence,” Yeo said. “In
particular I absolutely and unreservedly deny the allegation
that I coached a witness with whom I have a business connection
before that person gave evidence to the committee.”  The video posted on the newspaper’s website showed Yeo
telling the journalists that while he wouldn’t be able to speak
publicly for them because of his position, he’d be able to give
private advice. He described how that morning, his committee had
heard from an employee of  Groupe Eurotunnel SA (GET) , where he is a
director. “I was able to tell him in advance what he should
say,” Yeo said, before laughing.  Yeo is the latest lawmaker to be caught up in a lobbying
sting by an undercover journalist. Another Tory, Patrick Mercer,
has resigned from his party after offering his services to
undercover reporters from the  BBC  and the Telegraph newspaper.
The  Labour Party  has suspended two of its members in the upper
House of Lords over a previous Sunday Times story.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  responded by pledging
compulsory registration of political lobbyists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  