-- U.K. Carbon-Fraud Probe Poised to Run Through 2015, PwC Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-06-10T14:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/u-k-carbon-fraud-probe-poised-to-run-through-2015-pwc-says.html
U.K. regulators may take a further
two years to complete an investigation into fraud in the carbon
market as it seeks data from companies including Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc and  CarbonDesk Group Plc. (CO2P)   The U.K. tax office is examining whether trading companies,
motivated by transaction fees and discounted prices offered by
fraudsters, continued buying and selling permits even as the
doubling of volumes around June 2009 was suspicious, according
to Cedric Andrew, a former investigator at HMRC, the British
agency. Based on parallel cases in the mobile-phone industry,
the inquiry into so-called missing-trader frauds may not be
resolved until 2015, according to Jonathan Grant, a director of
sustainability and climate change at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  “The carbon market was particularly vulnerable to missing-trader frauds because spot trading and the delivery of the
allowances and cash can be very rapid,” Grant, who has advised
the European Commission on some of its carbon programs, said
June 3 by e-mail.  HMRC served an 86 million-pound ($133 million) assessment
in September related to value-added-tax fraud on a European unit
of RBS Sempra Commodities LLP, a venture between Edinburgh-based
RBS and Sempra, the San Diego-based company said May 2 in a
filing to the U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission .  RBS is cooperating with the agency,  Linda Harper , a
spokeswoman for the bank in London, said May 31 by phone,
declining to elaborate.  Surging Volumes  According to the Sempra filing, a letter from HMRC to RBS
states that “HMRC believes it has grounds to deny RBS the
ability to reduce its VAT liability by VAT paid during 2009
because it knew or should have known that certain vendors in the
trading chain did not remit their own VAT to HMRC.”  CarbonDesk, which bought and sold carbon permits on behalf
of clients, is contesting an assessment received from HMRC in
January for 95.5 million pounds, its founder Brett Stacey said
June 4 by e-mail. Neither RBS nor CarbonDesk has been accused of
fraud.  Buying and selling of EU allowances for immediate delivery
jumped to 38 percent of the total market in May 2009, up from 26
percent in April and 18 percent in March, Barclays Plc estimated
at the time. Permits are traded electronically between accounts
held by companies that keep track of ownership.  Crimes in the greenhouse-gas market will take more time to
prosecute because regulators need to investigate whether buyers,
sellers and brokers improperly took advantage of surging
volumes, London-based Grant said.  Several Investigations  HMRC has limited its VAT losses to less than 300 million
pounds and is “taking action to recover amounts properly due,”
Andrew Bennett, a spokesman for the tax office in  London , said
April 23 by e-mail.  The claim against RBS Sempra is one of “a number of
investigations into VAT tax-refund claims” in the carbon market
by HMRC, according to the Sempra filing. Art Larson, a company
spokesman in  San Diego , said June 7 by e-mail that RBS is
handling the case on behalf of the venture.  RBS Sempra is being liquidated after its European power and
natural gas business was bought by JPMorgan Chase & Co. in 2010.
Patrick Burton, a spokesman for JPMorgan in London, declined to
comment when reached June 4 by phone.  JPMorgan has indemnified the unit for “certain items” as
the RBS Sempra venture is liquidated, excluding the HMRC
assessment, Sempra’s Larson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  