-- U.S. Outlook Revised to Stable by S&P as Fiscal Risks Diminish
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-06-10T20:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/u-s-outlook-revised-to-stable-by-s-p-as-fiscal-risks-recede.html
The U.S.’s AA+ credit rating outlook
was increased to stable from negative by  Standard & Poor’s ,
based on receding fiscal risks, less than two years after the
company stripped the world’s largest economy of its top ranking.  The U.S. has a less than one-in-three likelihood of a
downgrade in the “near term” with the revision, S&P said today
in a statement. The New York-based company said it sees
“tentative improvements,” such as the deal politicians reached
to resolve what became known as the fiscal cliff and through
spending cuts in the Budget Control Act of 2011.  U.S. government debt  as a percentage of gross domestic
product will likely be stable at about 84 percent for the next
few years, S&P said. That may give policy makers additional time
to address spending on  Social Security  and health care, which is
expected to grow as the population ages, S&P said.  S&P, the world’s largest credit rater, for the first time
cut the U.S. ranking from AAA in August 2011, contributing to a
global stock-market rout and sending yields on Treasury debt to
record lows as investors sought a refuge in the world’s most
easily traded securities.  “We see some improvement lately in terms of moving, if
gradually and hesitantly, but nevertheless toward some fiscal
consolidation,” Nikola Swann, an S&P credit analyst, said today
in a webcast. “With the fiscal cliff deal earlier this year,
there was at least some limited willingness and ability to
compromise shown between the two parties, even if it was a last-minute deal.”  Opposite Direction  Downgrades don’t necessarily correspond to higher borrowing
costs. Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg on Moody’s Investors
Service and S&P grades.  Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasuries dropped 0.74
percentage point in the seven weeks following the August 2011
downgrade to a then-record 1.67 percent.  Treasuries declined today on bets the increase in the
outlook boosted the odds that the  Federal Reserve  may slow the
pace of monetary stimulus.  “More positive news on the economy will be something that
guys will say helps the Fed out with the case to start pulling
back,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at Societe Generale SA in New
York, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the U.S.
central bank.  30-Year  Yields on 10-year  notes  rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.21 percent at 4:31 p.m. in New York. The
 30-year (USGG30YR)  yield increased four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 3.37 percent after touching 3.38 percent, the highest
since April 2012.  “The improving  U.S. economy  is boosting government
revenues, the sequester has trimmed spending, and uncertainties
about growth in China and Europe make the United States the
preferred destination for global investors,” said  Phillip Swagel , former Treasury assistant secretary for economic policy
in the George W. Bush administration and now a professor at the
 University of Maryland . Automatic budget cuts, known as
sequestration, began to go into effect March 1.  The U.S. downgrade by S&P in 2011 reflected in part the
political impasse over raising the debt limit as well as the
government’s lack of a plan to rein in its debt load and
weakening “effectiveness, stability, and predictability of
American policy making and political institutions.”  ‘Divisive Debates’  “We believe that our current ’AA+’ rating already factors
in a lesser ability of U.S. elected officials to react swiftly
and effectively to public-finance pressures over the longer term
in comparison with officials of some more highly rated
sovereigns, and we expect repeated divisive debates over raising
the debt ceiling,” S&P said in today’s statement.  Better-than-forecast economic growth stemming from the
private sector and remittances from  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac 
have spurred the  Congressional Budget Office  to reduce its U.S.
deficit forecasts, S&P said.  “We do not see material risks to our favorable view of the
flexibility and efficacy of U.S. monetary policy,” S&P said.
“U.S. economic performance will match or exceed its peers’ in
the coming years. We forecast that the external position of the
U.S. on a flow basis will not deteriorate.”  Dean Baker , co-director of the Center for Economic and
Policy Research in Washington, said the outlook change shows S&P
is backtracking from its downgrade.  “At some point they have to get back in line and get the
U.S. government back up to AAA,” Baker said. “This is the
first step.”  Fitch, Moody’s  Moody’s and  Fitch Ratings  assign the U.S. their top AAA
rankings with negative outlooks. Moody’s has said U.S. policy
makers must address debt loads projected to rise later this
decade to avoid a downgrade.  Steven Hess , lead sovereign analyst for Moody’s in the
U.S., said in an e-mail that the firm’s “rating outlook will
likely be either moved back to stable or the rating downgraded
during the course of this year.”  Daniel Noonan , a spokesman for
Fitch Ratings, said the company is likely to complete its review
of the U.S. credit rating by early July.  Mary Miller , the Treasury’s undersecretary for domestic
finance, told reporters in Washington today that she’s
“pleased” that S&P is “recognizing the progress in the U.S.
economy and fiscal results.”  Deficits Narrowing  The U.S. posted a $1.1 trillion deficit last year.
President  Barack Obama  in April presented a budget that the
administration says will reduce the shortfall for the fiscal
year that begins Oct. 1 to $744 billion, or 4.4 percent of the
economy.  On May 14, a government report said the  budget deficit  will
shrink this fiscal year to $642 billion, the smallest shortfall
in five years.  The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office reduced its
estimate of this year’s likely shortfall by more than $200
billion compared with its February projection. The agency
pointed to stronger-than-expected tax receipts and payments to
the Treasury by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  “Predictions of a sequester-driven doomsday have proved
incorrect,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  “S&P is basically saying economic growth is more important
than austerity” in driving ratings changes, he said. “For all
the talk of U.S. deficit being driven by a spending mismatch,
the rising tide of stronger economic growth is what’s really
supporting tax boats.”  Nine Years  S&P’s Swann said no country that has been dropped from AAA
by S&P had regained the top rating in less than nine years.  “If you look at this like S&P were rating a company called
America Inc., they’re basically saying the company’s operations
won’t take the hit over the next few quarters despite the
sequester,” said Stephen Myrow, managing director at
Washington-based ACG Analytics Inc. “But the big issues, like
the company’s health-care costs and pension funding, still
remain for the long-term outlook.”  The improved outlook is unlikely to soften demands from
Republicans in Congress for deeper budget cuts, said  Jay Bryson ,
global economist with Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte,
North Carolina.  “The problem with the U.S. is not necessarily the short-term budget dynamics, it’s the long-term budget dynamics,”
Bryson said. “So even if you get the short-term reprieve of not
getting downgraded by S&P, I think many Republican lawmakers
will still say, yes, but we still have this long-term budget
issue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  