-- Dying Girl Needing Lung Forces Change in U.S. Policy
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-06-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/u-s-organ-donor-committee-votes-to-ease-under-12-lung-policy.html
U.S. lung-transplant rules are being
temporarily eased to provide a case-by-case avenue for sick
children to receive an adult donor organ, a shift in policy that
followed pleas from the family of a dying Pennsylvania girl.  The executive committee of the Organ Procurement and
Transplantation Network voted at an emergency meeting yesterday
to create an interim classification for child lung candidates
with exceptional cases. The rule will be effective until July 1,
2014, giving time to find a permanent solution to a policy that
barred children under 12 years old from receiving adult lungs
until all adults in need had a chance to accept them.  “That particular age may be difficult to justify from a
scientific point of view,” committee Chairman  John Roberts  said
at the meeting. “This exception will allow us to re-examine the
lung allocation policy considering the most recent data.”  The family of 10-year-old Sarah Murnaghan, who suffers from
cystic fibrosis and will die without a lung transplant, sued
after being denied an exemption to the under-12 rule. The girl’s
plight sparked calls by lawmakers to review the organ donor
policies and she won a temporary court order last week making
her eligible for a lung from an adult.  The new policy, which took effect immediately after the
11-0 vote by the committee, allows children with exceptional
cases access to adult lungs based on an allocation score used to
prioritize adult lung transplants. Children younger than 12
aren’t typically assigned a score, only placed in one of two
categories, which can keep them from receiving adult lungs.  Second Look  The committee discussed the possibility that children are
being disadvantaged and at higher risk of death from the old
policy.  “This case has caused us to shine a light on this
process,”  Stuart Sweet , a member of the executive committee and
a pediatric pulmonologist at St. Louis Children’s Hospital, said
at the meeting.  The OPTN, created by Congress, operates as an independent
nonprofit group under federal contract to manage transplant
needs, prioritizing patients by medical need.  Almost 1,700 people nationwide await a life-saving lung
transplant, including 30 children ages 10 or younger, the OPTN
said in a May 27 statement. In 2012 there were 11 lung donors
from the ages of 6 to 10, the network said.  Scientific Judgment  Lawyers for the Health and Human Services Department argued
in court that the transplant policy was established with the
interests of patients in mind based on scientific judgment.
While Sarah’s case is a tragic situation, the policy shouldn’t
be interfered with, they argued.  “I would suggest that the rules that are in place and are
reviewed on a regular basis are there because the worst of all
worlds, in my mind, is to have some individual pick and choose
who lives and who dies,” HHS Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said
June 4 at a House Education and Workforce Committee hearing.  Sarah’s doctors have decided that transplanting a set of
adult lungs is appropriate in her case. She has been on the
waiting list for child-donated lungs since December 2011. She is
now also eligible for lungs from an adult donor after the court
order handed down by U.S. District Judge Michael Baylson.
Baylson set a hearing on a preliminary injunction June 14.  Cystic fibrosis is a congenital disease affecting the
lungs, pancreas, liver and other organs. The lungs of people
suffering from the disease clog with mucus, causing breathing
problems and promoting the growth of bacteria, according to the
 National Institutes of Health . While there are treatments, there
is no cure, according to the NIH website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  