-- Mugabe Assailed as Zimbabwe Insider Baba Jukwa Takes to Facebook
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-06-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/mugabe-assailed-as-zimbabwe-insider-baba-jukwa-takes-to-facebook.html
Zimbabwean politics is being shaken
up by an unexpected source, a  Facebook page  being run by “Baba
Jukwa,” who produces daily revelations of wrong-doing by the
southern African nation’s leaders.  His exposes range from alleged plans by President Robert Mugabe’s party to rig general elections that are scheduled to
take place this year to naming officials who led the government
crackdown against the opposition in the western region of
Matabeleland that killed as many as 20,000 people in the 1980s.  Zimbabweans have been starved of independent reporting,
with Reporters Without Borders ranking the southern African
nation 133 out of 170 nations in its  World Press Freedom Index .
Baba Jukwa, who hasn’t revealed his identity, has published
phone numbers of politicians, police members, intelligence
agents and army officers he says are “murdering” civilians and
encourages Zimbabweans to phone them.  “This is a new form of protest in the information age,”
Pedzisai Ruhanya, director of the  Zimbabwe  Democratic Institute
research group, said in a interview in Harare, the capital, on
June 3. “Citizens will find ways of circumventing undemocratic
space.”  Often writing in colloquial Zimbabwean English, Baba Jukwa
says he’s a senior member of Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National
Union-Patriotic Front party. Since starting on March 22, his
page has gained about 137,000 followers, more than those of both
Mugabe and his long-time election rival, Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai. About 15.7 percent of Zimbabwe’s 14 million people
have access to the Internet, the International
Telecommunications Union said in January.  Party ‘Conflict’  “We are not worried at all about Baba Jukwa because he
wants to cause confusion and conflict within the party, but he
won’t get it,” Zanu-PF spokesman  Rugare Gumbo  said in a June 3
telephone interview from Harare, the capital.  Gumbo said Zanu-PF is focused on defeating Tsvangirai’s
Movement for Democratic Change in the elections so the party can
“spearhead our land reform program and intensify our
indigenization and empowerment.”  Tsvangirai and Mugabe have governed in a coalition
government since 2009. The administration has helped to turn
around an economy that went into recession and was gripped by
inflation that accelerated to 500 billion percent, according to
the International Monetary Fund, following a government-backed
land-reform program that started in 2000.  Empowerment Laws  Tsvangirai said last month that if elected, his government
will reverse laws aimed at forcing companies such as  Anglo
American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) ,  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and
 Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)  to show how they’ll sell or cede control
to black Zimbabweans or the state’s National Indigenization and
Economic Empowerment Board.  Zimbabwe’s Constitutional court has ordered presidential
elections to be held by July 31. They will end a power-sharing
government between Mugabe’s Zanu-PF and Tsvangirai’s MDC
following elections international observers said were flawed by
violence and intimidation in 2008.  The two factions of the MDC have rejected the election date
as unconstitutional and unfeasbile. There isn’t enough time for
the registration of voters that ends July 9 and the nomination
of candidates 30 days before a vote as the constitution
stipulates, Senator David Coltart, a lawyer, said on June 6 on
his website.  “An early and rapid election will play in Zanu-PF’s favor
in that it is easy to rig where preparations are done rapidly,
there will be no time to implement key electoral reforms, my
party is in full control of the current system,” Baba Jukwa
wrote on June 8. “It would political suicide” to vote Zanu-PF
back into office, he said.  ‘Rogue Members’  Few critics and supporters of Baba Jukwa doubt that he is a
member of the ruling party.  “Let these sinister elements be told here and now that
their machinations and operations are in the open and that their
days of association with Zanu-PF are numbered,” a columnist in
the state-controlled Herald newspaper wrote last month.  Ephraim Jokonya, a vegetable-seller in Harare’s Greencroft
suburb, said he believed Baba Jukwa has been a member of the
party since before Zimbabwe gained independence from the U.K. in
1980.  “I’m sure he’s old guard, a pre-independence member
disgruntled with the country’s collapse since 2000,” he said in
a May 31 interview.  NI AFRICA
NI AFRICAX
NI AME
NI EM
NI SADC
NI ZIMB  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  