-- Hungary Contains Danube Flooding as German Levees Burst
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-06-10T12:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/hungary-contains-danube-flooding-as-german-levee-bursts.html
Hungary ’s government said it was
containing the flooding Danube in Budapest, while the economic
toll grew in Germany, where thousands of people have been
evacuated along the overflowing Elbe River.  Hungarian authorities are “in control” of the Danube with
20,000 people including more than 7,000 soldiers working to
erect barriers, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said today on the
banks of the river in the Hungarian capital.  Europe ’s second-longest waterway reached a record level yesterday and is now
receding in the capital.  “We aren’t surrendering a single dike, we’re defending
everywhere,” Orban said in remarks broadcast by state-run M1
television. Parliament will today vote on Orban’s request to
extend a state of emergency.  The floods, triggered by heavy rainfall, are the worst in
central Europe since 2002. Overflowing rivers killed ten people
in the Czech Republic and at least six have died in Germany,
while tens of thousands of people had to evacuate to escape the
water that inundated cities and towns, shut down factories and
disrupted rail, road and river traffic.  In Germany, more than 1,000 people were asked to leave
their homes today after a levee broke on the banks of the Elbe
near Stendal, 130 kilometers (80 miles) west of Berlin. In the
state of Saxony-Anhalt, where Stendal is located, the number of
evacuees is 44,000 and rising, Anke Reppin, spokeswoman of the
state’s crisis center, said by phone today.  Merkel Visit  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is due to make her third visit to
Germany’s flood-affected regions in a week today when she
travels to the town of Wittenberge in Brandenburg, where the
Elbe forms the boundary with Saxony-Anhalt.  Deutsche Bahn  canceled or delayed train services from
 Frankfurt  to Berlin and from Hanover to Berlin after authorities
closed a bridge over the Elbe near Stendal, the company said in
a statement today.  The Elbe is blocked to shipping traffic from Doemitz,
around 120 kilometers southwest of Hamburg, to Dresden in the
east of the country, according to data on the website of the
German Water and Shipping Office WSV. The Rhine and Main rivers
are open for shipping traffic while the Danube is still closed
at Hofkirchen, close to the border with  Austria  and the Czech
Republic, WSV said.  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  halted production at its factory in
Esztergom, northern Hungary after the closure of a bridge
spanning the Danube. Many of Suzuki’s 3,000 workers in Hungary
live in Slovakia and commute across the bridge, company
spokeswoman Viktoria Ruska said by phone today.  Budapest Traffic  In Budapest, where the waves of the Danube lapped the base
of the neo-gothic Parliament building and embankments have been
submerged for days, authorities closed off several roads and a
subway station and asked commuters to leave their cars at home
to reduce congestion.  So far, 1,315 people had to be evacuated in Hungary because
of the flooding, Interior Minister Sandor Pinter told lawmakers
in Parliament today, according to MTI news service.  Flood defense is now shifting to the south where the Danube
flows onwards toward  Serbia , according to Orban, who has spent
the past several days surveying the work along the river.  In the  Czech Republic , authorities maintained a state of
emergency in six regions of the country after lifting it in
 Prague  today. Water levels in the Vltava and Elbe rivers
continued to recede. Weather forecasters warned of heavy rains
today and overnight that may cause flash floods in parts of the
country. Almost 22,000 people have had to be evacuated so far,
according to Prague’s fire department.  Damage Estimates  The Czech Insurers Association last week estimated the
insured losses from floods to be at 7.5 billion koruna ($387
million). Damage in the Czech Republic may total 20 billion
koruna, according to an estimate last week by CSOB analyst Jan Bures. In 2002, the insurers covered damages worth 34.7 billion
koruna.  In  Germany , the economic toll may exceed the 11 billion-euros ($14.6 billion) damage caused by the 2002 floods, Eric Schweitzer, the president of the German chamber of trade and
industry DIHK, said on June 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  