-- Unilever to Nestle Raise Nigeria Bubble Concern on Valuation
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2013-06-11T15:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/unilever-to-nestle-raise-nigeria-bubble-concerns-over-valuations.html
Investors are valuing shares of
 Nestle SA (NESN)  and Unilever’s Nigerian units at about twice the level
of their European parents as faster growth in Africa’s most
populous nation lifts consumer stocks to record highs.  The 53 percent surge in  Nestle Nigeria Plc (NESTLE)  this year pushed
shares to 33 times estimated profit, almost double the ratio for
Zurich-listed Nestle and up from a discount last year.  Guinness
Nigeria Plc (GUINNESS)  is trading at a 53 percent premium relative to its
parent,  Diageo Plc. (DGE)   Unilever Nigeria Plc (UNILEVER)  has a price-to-earnings
multiple of 38, compared with 18 for Unilever, which is based in
London and Rotterdam.  While bulls say the gains in Nigeria are justified by the
economic expansion in Africa’s largest oil-producing nation,
Hermes Fund Managers Ltd. and Renaissance Asset Management see
the valuation gaps as a signal shares are too expensive. All
three units reported  profit  declines in the period ended March
as accelerating inflation and an Islamist insurgency in the
north curbed spending by the nation’s 170 million citizens.  “There may be a correction,” Lanre Buluro, the head of
research at Lagos-based Primera Africa Securities Ltd., said by
phone on May 23. “People will start looking to re-evaluate and
move this money somewhere else.”  The  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index (NGSEINDX)  is valued at 13
times estimated earnings, the highest level since December 2010,
after rallying 42 percent this year. The MSCI Frontier Markets
Index, the benchmark gauge for nations with an average market
capitalization of $34 billion, has a multiple of 11 after
gaining 14 percent in 2013.  Stock Inflows  Local investors have piled into Nigeria’s stock market,
accounting for 57 percent of trades in March, compared with 39
percent in all of 2012. Growth in the $269 billion economy,
Africa’s largest outside South Africa, will quicken to 7.2
percent this year from 6.3 percent in 2012, International
Monetary Fund projections show. That compares with an estimated
5.6 percent growth rate for Sub-Saharan Africa. The euro area’s
economy will probably contract 0.6 percent this year, according
to the  European Central Bank .  “Many asset managers around the world, who are not experts
on Africa or on frontier markets, want to get into these markets
at any cost and they’re just choosing a name which is familiar
and which they perceive to be safe,” Sven Richter, who oversees
about $260 million as managing director of frontier markets at
Renaissance Asset Management, said by phone from Johannesburg
May 13.  Cheaper Banks  Net foreign inflows into Nigerian equities amounted to 29.3
billion naira ($184 million) in March, compared with 93.8
billion naira in 2012, according to the  Nigerian Stock Exchange .  Richter, whose Renaissance African Sub-Saharan Fund has
outperformed 95 percent of peers tracked by Bloomberg during the
past 12 months, said he doesn’t own shares of Guinness Nigeria,
Unilever Nigeria or Nestle Nigeria. Most multinational companies
listed on the Nigerian bourse are majority-owned by their
parents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We can’t figure out how they should be valued so
highly,” said Gary Greenberg, who has invested in developing
nations since 1989 and runs the $320 million Hermes Global
 Emerging Markets  Fund, which has outperformed 91 percent of
peers so far this year.  Greenberg favors Nigerian lenders such as  Zenith Bank Plc (ZENITHBA) ,
which trades at 8 times estimated 2013 earnings. That compares
with a multiple of 29 for Guinness Nigeria, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The first Guinness brewery outside of
Ireland and Britain was started in Lagos in 1963 and listed its
stock on the  bourse  in 1965, according to the company’s website.  Soap Manufacturer  Adeola Adejokun, a spokesman for Guinness Nigeria, declined
to comment on valuations. The increase in Unilever Nigeria’s
shares reflects the return investors expect they can get, Yemi
Adeboye, a spokesman for the company, said in a May 22 e-mailed
response to questions. Unilever’s roots in the country date back
to 1923, when it started as a soap manufacturing company,
according to its  website .  Nestle Nigeria’s valuation is “well balanced in relation
to the fast-moving consumer goods sector,” Martin Woolnough,
the company’s outgoing Lagos-based managing director, said in an
e-mailed response to questions May 23. Nestle has been importing
products into Nigeria since at least the 1920s and started a
local unit in 1961, according to its  website .  Nigeria’s consumer market is still in its infancy, giving
investors an opportunity to benefit from long-term growth, said
Hans-Henrik Skov, who oversees about $330 million in frontier
markets at BankInvest in Copenhagen, including the  BI SICAV New
Emerging Markets Equities (BINEMEI)  fund, which outperformed 99 percent of
peers tracked by Bloomberg in the past 12 months.  High Multiple  “You have growth in your existing products, plus growth
from new products they introduce,” said Skov, whose firm holds
shares of Nestle Nigeria. “If you take into account that these
companies are not going ex-growth in at least 10 years time,
that deserves a high multiple.”  Nestle Nigeria will probably increase  profit  at an average
annual pace of 21 percent in the three years through 2016,
versus 9 percent for Nestle, the world’s biggest food company,
according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Unilever (UNA) 
Nigeria’s 24 percent projected growth rate compares with 8
percent for Unilever, the seller of Lipton tea and Dove shampoo.  Stocks in Nigeria, Africa’s top oil producer by capacity,
will sustain gains provided Bonny Light crude prices remain
above $100 a barrel and central banks worldwide maintain
monetary stimulus, Pabina Yinkere, an equity analyst at Vetiva
Capital Management Ltd., said in a May 31 interview in Lagos.  Nigeria’s currency, which strengthened 3.9 percent against
the dollar last year for the continent’s best performance, has
retreated 2.1 percent this year to 159.45 per dollar as of 4:51
p.m. in Lagos.  Inflation Risk  Consumer spending will be constrained for the rest of this
year by rising prices and military action against the Islamist
insurgency, Nestle Nigeria’s Woolnough said in May 29 phone
interview, two days before he retired.  Inflation (NGCPIYOY)  in Nigeria, where the World Bank estimates almost
63 percent of the population lives in  poverty , accelerated to
9.1 percent in April from 8.6 percent a month earlier, data from
the nation’s statistics bureau show. The militant group Boko
Haram has carried out gun and bomb attacks that killed thousands
since 2009 in the mainly Muslim north and the capital, Abuja, to
establish Islamic rule.  Conditions for consumers will start improving next year as
the government ramps up spending for elections, Guinness Nigeria
Chief Executive Officer Seni Adetu said by phone from Lagos June
7. Nigeria is the biggest market globally for Guinness stout by
net sales, he said.  Nestle Nigeria’s first-quarter net income fell about 3
percent from a year earlier, the company said May 3. Unilever
Nigeria’s first-quarter  earnings  slid 10 percent, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Guinness Nigeria’s nine-month profit through
March declined 18 percent, according to a statement distributed
by the Nigerian bourse.  Held Back  “Inflationary pressure in Nigeria is holding back consumer
spending,” Rene Hooft Graafland, the chief financial officer of
Amsterdam-based brewer  Heineken NV (HEIA) , said on an April 24
conference call with analysts. “You’ll hear that from our
competitors, but also other consumer goods industries, all had a
very slow start in that market.”  Heineken is the biggest shareholder in Lagos-based  Nigerian
Breweries Plc (NB) , which is valued at 30 times estimated earnings
after surging 20 percent this year. That  compares  with a
multiple of 17 for Heineken.  Paris-based  Lafarge SA (LG) , the world’s biggest cement maker,
is valued at 16 times estimated profit, compared with a multiple
of 12 for its  unit  in Lagos. The Nigerian business of London-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc  trades  at 24 times trailing earnings
versus 19 for the parent.  PZ Cussons Plc (PZC) ’s Nigerian business,
which makes consumer products such as soap and home  appliances,
has a multiple of 87, versus 46 for its parent.  ‘Nascent Stage’  Nigeria’s status as a frontier market makes it difficult to
justify valuations on consumer stocks above 20 times earnings,
Hermes Fund Managers’ Greenberg said. Nigeria ranked 131st out
of 185 countries in the  World Bank ’s Ease of Doing Business
Index. In Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions
Index, it has a rating of 139 out of 174. Lower scores signal
increased corruption.  “The reason a lot of countries are called frontier is they
haven’t made it to the point of a sustainable growth path,”
Greenberg said. “Nigeria falls into that camp. It’s a wonderful
opportunity with a huge population and blessed with oil riches,
but it’s still at the fairly nascent stage of developing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in  Hong Kong  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  