-- VTB’s Discount to Sberbank Shrinking: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-06-10T11:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/vtb-s-discount-to-sberbank-shrinking-russia-overnight.html
OAO VTB Bank, trading at the
narrowest discount to OAO Sberbank in two months, will see the
gap shrink by half as lending growth accelerates at  Russia ’s
second-biggest bank, according to Otkritie Financial Corp.  Global depositary receipts of VTB rose 2 percent to $2.96
in  London  last week, pushing valuations to 5.3 times estimated
earnings, a 10 percent discount to American depositary receipts
of Sberbank, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Sberbank, Russia’s
biggest lender, slipped 0.3 percent in London last week. The
Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of the most-traded Russian
companies in the U.S. fell 0.5 percent to 87.14 last week while
RTS stock-index futures dropped 0.3 percent on June 7.  VTB, based in Moscow, is poised to expand its balance sheet
as credit demand strengthens in the second half, Otkritie
analysts led by Vladimir Savov said in a report June 7. State-run VTB’s corporate lending growth is outpacing the market and
rival Sberbank this year, Chief Executive Officer Andrey Kostin
said June 5. One-third of 21 analysts covering the London-traded
stock recommend buying it, the highest level since April 2012.  “The time has come for VTB to shrink its discount to
Sberbank,” VTB’s Savov said in a telephone interview from
Moscow June 7. “The deep discount it has now is not justified
and has the potential to shrink by half within months.”  VTB’s discount to Sberbank on an estimated  price-to-earnings  basis has fallen by more than half since reaching 28
percent on May 16, the highest in the past two years.  Shrinking Gap  Asset quality is a bigger risk at VTB than at Sberbank,
Otkritie said, pointing to a ratio of non-performing loans that
exceeds 5 percent at VTB, compared with about 3 percent at the
larger lender.  “Sberbank is a very good, quality asset with a huge
footprint in the banking industry, and smaller VTB will probably
always trade at a discount to Sberbank,” Savov said. “But the
gap is just too big and should shrink as VTB has been showing
consistent improvement in all business segments.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest exchange-traded
fund dedicated to Russian equities, added 0.3 percent to $25.38,
posting its first weekly advance in a month. The RTS Volatility
Index, which measures expected swings in the  stock futures ,
surged 6.9 percent to 27.05 by 3:06 p.m. in Moscow today. The
 Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 0.1 percent to 1,345.75 today.  VTB climbed 0.8 percent to 4.80 kopeks in Moscow, while
Sberbank increased 0.3 percent to 99.30 rubles.  Futures expiring this month on the dollar-denominated RTS
index declined to 130,080 in U.S. hours June 7. The nation’s
benchmark Micex Index declined 2.5 percent in Moscow to a one-year low of 1,316.92.  Better Focus  VTB, which will reduce its stake in Tele2, the mobile phone
operator it bought this year, “is on the right track as it
exits from non-core businesses and focuses on lending and other
financial services,”  Mark Rubinstein , the head of research at
IFC Metropol in Moscow, said in a telephone interview June 6.
“Things are clearly improving for VTB, while no new driver for
growth is seen for Sberbank.”  The bank paid $3.6 billion this year to acquire Tele2,
Russia’s fifth-biggest mobile carrier, and will cut its stake in
the company to below controlling levels by March 2014, VTB Chief
Financial Officer Herbert Moss said April 24.  Recommendations to sell VTB’s stock are at their lowest
level in five years, with only 14 percent of analysts endorsing
a sale, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  VTB’s discount to  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) ’s Emerging Market Banks Index
fell to 37 percent on June 7 from a three-year high of 47
percent on April 25.  Ruble Futures  “Investors don’t fully appreciate Russia’s biggest banks,
probably because they are instead focused on slowing economic
growth in Russia, insufficient investments in infrastructure and
overall Russia’s dependence on commodity and oil prices,” Savov
said.  Ruble futures showed the currency little changed at 30.54
to a dollar in U.S. hours June 7. Russia’s ruble weakened 0.2
percent to 32.1675 per dollar June 7 and was little changed at
36.7949 against the dollar-euro basket used by the central bank
to manage swings that erode exporter competitiveness.  United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
dropped 0.3 percent to HK$3.38 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:01
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  