-- Vue Sold to Omers, Alberta Investment for $1.5 Billion
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-06-10T19:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/vue-cinemas-sold-to-omers-alberta-investment-for-1-5-billion.html
Vue Entertainment Ltd. was bought by
two Canadian pension-fund managers looking to continue the
expansion of one of  Europe ’s largest cinema operators for 935
million pounds ($1.45 billion).  Ontario  Municipal Employees Retirement System and  Alberta 
Investment Management Corp. are buying Vue from private-equity
firm Doughty Hanson & Co. and the London-based cinema operator’s
management, according to a statement today by the three
companies.  Vue, which operates in countries including the U.K.,
 Germany  and  Portugal , has doubled the number of cinemas it owns
in the past three years. Chief Executive Officer Tim Richards
will retain an equity stake and remain in charge, according to
the statement. Vue, which in recent months bought rivals in
Poland and Germany, will continue making “strategic
acquisitions” where appropriate, Richards said today.  “This is the most active time in Europe for cinema in
probably the past 10 years because the banks are back in
business and supporting companies and assets” are for sale, he
said in an interview.  The deal should close at the end of July, according to the
statement. The Ontario pension fund, known as Omers, and Alberta
Investment plan to use their own funds to finance the buyout
before finalizing debt financing by early August, according to a
person familiar with the deal who asked not to be named as the
details are private.  James Devas, a spokesman in  London  for Omers, declined to
comment on the debt financing.  ‘Patient Capital’  Vue is the second-largest cinema operator outside  North
America  and has more than 1,300 screens at 146 cinemas across
Europe, according to the statement.  “People have suggested that” an acquisition of Odeon and
UCI Cinemas Group Ltd. “may be the next step in a
consolidation,” Aimco CEO Leo De Bever said in a phone
interview from  Edmonton , Alberta. “But we’re not in any
discussions on that one.”  Omers approached London-based Odeon in 2011 with BC
Partners Ltd. to purchase the chain, two people familiar with
the plan said at the time. The pension funds may run into
regulatory issues if they seek to acquire Odeon because of the
large market share it would command, De Bever said.  “Presumably, if you had that kind of concentration, you
might get a bit more push back from the regulators,” De Bever
said. “That’s not on the table right now.” He doesn’t expect
there to be any regulatory issues in the Vue deal.  Canada Pensions  Omers is one of  Canada ’s largest pension funds with more
than C$61 billion ($60 billion) in assets. Alberta Investment
has more than C$70 billion under management, according to the
statement.  “Our combined ownership gives Vue the distinct advantage
of patient capital and deep pockets for organic and acquisitive
growth,” Mark Redman, the head of Europe at Omers Private
Equity, said in the statement.  Doughty Hanson bought Vue in November 2010. The disposal is
the second from its Doughty Hanson V fund after the sale of
Norit, a maker of water-purification systems, the company said.
The firm is in the process of raising about 2 billion euros
($2.6 billion) for its sixth buyout fund, Doughty Hanson VI. It
will be the firm’s first fundraising since the death of co-founder Nigel Doughty in February 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  