-- Walkers Put Phones Over Safety, Liberty Mutual Says
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-06-10T11:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/walkers-put-phones-over-safety-liberty-mutual-says.html
Drivers aren’t the only people that
need to put away their mobile phones to increase safety on the
roads, according to Liberty Mutual Holding Co.  Pedestrians are putting themselves at risk by sending
messages and chatting on phones, according to a U.S. survey by
the  Boston  based insurer. One quarter of people say they text or
send e-mails while crossing the street and 51 percent talk on
the phone, according to the survey. Three-quarters of
respondents said they didn’t consider it dangerous to have a
phone conversation while crossing.  “People think a problem, an accident, a crash, a
pedestrian being hit, it’s not going to happen to me,” Dave
Melton, who helps oversee safety initiatives at Liberty Mutual,
said in an interview. “People are not as capable of
multitasking as they think they are.”  Liberty Mutual, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co.
and  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  are among insurers that have sought to limit
distractions on the road as consumers increase use of mobile
phones. Sales of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone  jumped  to about 125 million
units in the most recently completed fiscal year from 40 million
two years earlier.  The number of U.S.  pedestrian deaths  climbed 3 percent in
2011 from a year earlier to 4,432, even as driver fatalities
fell for a sixth straight year, according to data from the
 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration .  Nine in 10 people said it is dangerous to read or send
messages behind the wheel, according to the Liberty Mutual
survey. Still, 38 percent said they engage in such activity.  Almost three quarters of pedestrian fatalities occurred in
urban areas, the NHTSA said in an  analysis  of 2010 data. More
than two-thirds of them occurred at night.  ‘Lost in Thought’  Drivers involved in fatal U.S. car crashes were more often
“lost in thought” than distracted by phones, according to an
Erie Insurance Group analysis of crash data. Daydreaming and
being lost in thought was the distraction 62 percent of the
time, compared with 12 percent for mobile-phone use, Erie said.  Liberty Mutual’s findings are based on a survey of 1,004
U.S. adults by telephone in April. The margin of error is 3.1
percentage points, the insurer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  