-- When Bailouts Make Moral and Economic Sense
-- B y   D a n i e l   F r i e d m a n   a n d   D a n i e l   M c N e i l l
-- 2013-06-10T22:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/when-bailouts-make-moral-and-economic-sense.html
Effective or not, bailouts somehow
seem unjust. Why use taxpayer money to save the companies that
actually caused the meltdown, the banks that made the reckless
loans, and insurance companies that wrote too many credit-default swaps? More broadly, why save the state and local
governments that offered overly generous pensions? Or auto
companies too fat and lazy to match foreign competitors? They
deserve to suffer the consequences of their behavior.  Let’s start with the word “bailout.” To most laypeople, it
suggests a gift to a giant, inefficient, highly connected
octopus. But bailouts are typically investments: loans or
purchases. In 1980, the U.S. government bailed out Chrysler with
a $1.5 billion loan and earned acid criticism, mostly from
liberals. But by 1983, Chrysler had paid it back and, with
interest and stock warrants, the government made a $660 million
profit. Taxpayers spent less overall, and the nation saved jobs.
So these companies often pay for the lifesaver we throw them.  More basically, the trouble is that we don’t live in Adam Smith’s village. We live in a much larger world.  Take American International Group Inc. The mammoth insurer
had links everywhere. On Feb. 28, 2008, it had branches in 130
countries and received half of its revenue from overseas. Its
assets exceeded $1 trillion and its stock sold for $50.15. Yet
for an insurance company it showed breathtaking disregard for
risk. In August 2007,  Joseph Cassano , head of the unit that made
the fateful CDS deals, said, “It is hard for us, without being
flippant, to even see a scenario within any kind of realm of
reason that would see us losing one dollar in any of those
transactions.”  Facing Bankruptcy  In late 2008, AIG faced death from “those transactions” and
begged for help. The government could have punished it and let
it succumb, but the harm would have been global. AIG owed money
everywhere, and its bankruptcy could have brought surprising
creditors, like the supposedly safe money-market funds, to their
knees and spurred further panic.  Yet most AIG divisions earned a profit. So to keep this
crumbling tower upright, the U.S. government pumped $182.5
billion into it and took 77.9 percent of its stock. The gamble
seemed hazardous, since at one point its stock fell to about $1
a share. And it was the most hated bailout, partly because AIG
went on to shower millions in bonuses on executives who had
caused the fiasco.  But the strategy had key advantages. For instance, the
government was buying inexpensively, when most investors thought
the company mortally ill. And it could be patient. It didn’t
need repayment at once. According to one analysis, by 2012 the
U.S. government had earned all its money back and made a profit
of $15 billion, and it still owned 16 percent of a company whose
stock was selling for about $34.  Similarly, with the banking system, the most direct
strategy would have been to take control of the most
overleveraged big banks, fire the top executives, strip out the
toxic assets and liquidate them slowly, and spin off new banks
with cleansed balance sheets. This approach worked well in the
U.S. savings-and-loan crisis of the 1980s and more recently for
banks in Scandinavia. Taxpayers ended up paying relatively
little, and the economy suffered minimal damage.  However, like all investments, bailouts don’t always turn a
profit. The Treasury gave the big banks about $230 billion from
the Troubled Asset Relief Program and has received about $255
billion, for a gain of $25 billion. However, the smaller banks
still owe some $15 billion, and overall the public may never get
the full $700 billion back from TARP. But its cost will be far
less than pundits originally warned.  Saving Goliaths  So we have to counter the moral impulse to pull down
irresponsible goliaths with the economic -- and ultimately moral
-- benefits of saving them. After a financial crash, well-targeted bailouts and stimulus spending can hasten repair of the
torn network. They can keep the economy stronger, spare the
hardship of lost jobs, and earn money for taxpayers. The moral
reaction, often manipulated to political advantage, hinders such
repair work and prolongs the suffering.  The government can respond by educating the public about
the nature of bailouts and thus help overcome the sense that
they are ripping money from citizens’ paychecks to cushion fat
cats from their blunders. This task may be difficult, but even
so,  Barack Obama ’s administration proved deficient in it.
Indeed, in the 2010 midterm elections, the moral backlash fueled
the Tea Party and made further stimulus impossible. Repair of
the financial system then had to proceed slowly, using awkward
indirect subsidies.  The problems in the financial sector begin with bad
promises at the base of the mortgage pyramid. A mortgage is a
promise of monthly payments or an early repayment in full. That
pledge is good as long as the owner can sell the house for more
than the remaining principal balance of the mortgage. But when
she no longer can -- when she owes more than the house is worth
-- the promise is in jeopardy. She may do better by defaulting.
And after 2007, falling home prices in much of  Florida ,
California and elsewhere pulled millions of homeowners
“underwater.” Monthly payments stopped from those who lost
their jobs or were never able to pay to begin with.  But here is the interesting and important question: What
about the underwater homeowners who can make the monthly
payments? The value of a good credit rating and the possibility
of a rebound in house prices might make it financially
advantageous for them to keep paying on homes that are worth
only slightly less than the value of their mortgage. At some
point, however, it may make bottom-line sense to walk away from
the loan.  Foreclosure Threat  The specter of massive foreclosures worried both
politicians and economists. As a result, the Obama
administration offered many programs to renegotiate distressed
mortgages, some carved out of TARP funds and others created
separately.  And that raised questions. Is it moral to use taxpayer
money to ease the mortgages of people who should have understood
and avoided them in the first place? Doesn’t every homeowner
take a risk that the property’s value will decrease?  There is a moral tension here. On the one hand, most of us
feel a desire to aid others in distress. On the other, we have
homeowners with varied levels of culpability and merit -- from
the “good people” who received typical mortgages and wound up
underwater anyway, to those who trusted lying agents and signed
mortgages with nasty provisions they didn’t know about, to those
who lied to get mortgages they couldn’t pay back.     The weights
you place on helping out versus punishing in each case reflects
your moral attitude.  But here, too, we have to be careful not to let our moral
instincts outweigh good policy. So what are the economic
dimensions of this situation?  Businesses routinely walk away from contracts when it is
more profitable to, and we hear no uproar about it. Moreover,
the law imposes no punitive damages on anyone breaking a
contract (in most cases). If you default, you pay only for the
harm you cause, and the courts pass no moral judgment on you.
The rationale is that our economy ultimately benefits, since
business moves faster and more nimbly.  Homeowners whose mortgages are sufficiently underwater are
in a similar situation. By defaulting, they can enjoy living in
a home at lower cost, even taking into account the impact on
their personal credit rating and the loss of the tax advantages
from home ownership. And, they may argue, what’s the harm to
anyone else?  But this dynamic changes when a tide of defaults looms. The
more defaults, the more foreclosures, and they bring down the
price of all homes nearby. If foreclosures are nationwide,
people’s wealth drops significantly. They can’t get home-equity
mortgages, for instance. At the same time, as housing prices
fall, owners get deeper underwater and default looks more and
more appealing. So while an individual default here and there
does not affect society much, a rash of them does. Yet if you
lighten too many mortgage burdens, as the Obama administration
proposed to do, you lower income for the banks and make them
less likely to lend. And that damage radiates, too.  Default Decisions  So what actually happened?  Intriguingly, despite the dire predictions, most underwater
homeowners chose not to default. Recent research suggests that
the reasons were mainly moral. Many homeowners apparently didn’t
want the guilt and shame from skipping out on the deal. Perhaps,
too, they didn’t want to hurt their neighbors by abandoning
their current home and contributing to neighborhood blight.  At the same time, the federal aid programs had few takers.
For instance, the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan,
announced in February 2009, sought to help as many as 9 million
homeowners to avoid foreclosure. However, far less than 10
percent have received any substantial relief, while about 4
million people lost their homes to foreclosure from 2007 to
early 2012. And many of those losses have been processed
improperly, in some cases fraudulently, to the banks’ advantage.  These foreclosure problems are doubtless due partly to the
complexities higher up the food chain. But we share the opinion
of many commentators that the larger problem is political. The
financial industry spends more money on lobbying and campaign
contributions than any other industry except health care, and it
seems to get an excellent return on its investment. The industry
opposed the mortgage-renegotiation programs, and then Treasury
Secretary Timothy Geithner did little to get them off the
ground.  (Daniel Friedman is a professor of economics at the
University of  California  at Santa Cruz. Daniel McNeill is the
author of “Fuzzy Logic.” This is the  second  of two excerpts from
the second edition of their book “Morals and Markets: The
Dangerous Balance,” to be published June 11 by Palgrave
MacMillan.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Daniel Friedman at  danqfrie@gmail.com .
Daniel McNeill at  dmcn@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  