-- William Clayton, E.F. Hutton’s Advertising Overseer, Dies at 83
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-06-10T17:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/william-clayton-e-f-hutton-s-advertising-overseer-dies-at-83.html
William L. Clayton, an E.F. Hutton &
Co. executive and board member who oversaw the brokerage’s
advertising campaigns, including “When E.F. Hutton talks,
people listen,” has died. He was 83.  He died on June 7 at his home in the Green Village section
of Chatham Township, New Jersey, his son, Christopher Clayton,
said today in an interview. He had  Parkinson’s disease  for
several years.  Clayton’s 55-year career on  Wall Street  included 38 years
at E.F. Hutton during its heyday as the second-largest U.S.
brokerage. He founded Hutton Capital Management, a unit that
managed institutional and high-net-worth client assets, and
became, under Chief Executive Officer Robert M. Fomon, the
firm’s in-house specialist for advertising and marketing.  “He was a money-management professional, but among other
things he took on the advertising piece of the business,” said
Christopher Clayton, who is executive vice president for finance
at Forest City Ratner Cos., a  Brooklyn , New York-based property
developer.  That work included guiding E.F. Hutton’s relationship with
 Benton & Bowles , the  advertising agency  that produced the famous
campaign, “When E.F. Hutton talks, people listen.”  Clayton  recalled  in a 1984 interview with Lehigh
University’s Alumni Bulletin that he pushed for a new slogan to
replace “More than just brokers,” which he considered
“terrible.”  Brand Restoration  In 1986, after the E.F. Hutton name had been tarnished by
its guilty plea in a check-overdraft scandal -- and after the
firm had taken advertising in-house, ending its work with Benton
& Bowles --  Clayton helped conceive a campaign intended to
clean up the brand.  “E.F. Hutton -- because it’s my money,” comedian  Bill Cosby , dressed in a suit and identifying himself as a Hutton
client, said in the television commercials, part of a $20
million advertising campaign.  Advertising Age reported that E.F. Hutton paid Cosby an
estimated $3 million for about 10 commercials, print ads and
Hutton-sponsored performances, and that Clayton conjured the
commercials with Cosby and one of his scriptwriters during a 12-hour work session between shows at Caesars Palace in  Las Vegas 
and on a late-night flight to  Los Angeles .  “He’s highly credible -- a morale booster” Clayton said
of Cosby, according to the Los Angeles Times.  Morgan Stanley  Shearson Lehman Brothers acquired E.F. Hutton in 1988, the
first in a series of acquisitions that made Hutton part of the
Smith Barney retail brokerage, which itself became  Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney. (MS)   Clayton remained with the E.F. Hutton brokerage unit from
1988 until his retirement in 2009, managing a book of accounts,
his son said. In his later years, he worked in the firm’s
 Florham Park , New Jersey, office.  Clayton was a trustee emeritus at his alma mater, Lehigh,
in Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania , which four of his six children also
attended. One of them, Kevin L. Clayton, is a principal at
Oaktree Capital Management LP, a Los Angeles-based  investment 
firm, and vice chairman of the school’s board of trustees. The
college is home to the Carol and William L. Clayton Scholarship
Fund.  William Lawrence Clayton was born on Oct. 27, 1929, in
Tenafly,  New Jersey . His father, Walter I. Clayton, was a member
of the New York Stock Exchange, while his mother, Emily Clayton,
was a homemaker.  Education, Career  He attended La Salle Military Academy, in Oakdale, New
York, and graduated from Lehigh with a degree in business
administration in 1951, the same year he married his wife, the
former Carol Farmer. He attended graduate school at  New York
University .  During the  Korean War , he served in the U.S. Air Force.  Clayton, who lived most of his life in  Short Hills , New
Jersey, joined E.F. Hutton’s first training class in 1954 and
was made an account executive, according to Chistopher Clayton.
He rose to vice president in 1964, was named to the board of
directors in 1971 and promoted to senior vice president the
following year. He then rose to executive vice president.  In 1976, E.F. Hutton came out with another Clayton
brainchild: a two-disk, phonograph record set containing an 80-minute primer on investing and selecting a broker. The
recording, titled “Learn a New Language: Money,” sold for
$9.95 and was aimed at novices, according to an  account  in the
 New York  Times. The disks addressed such questions as: What is a
stock? What is a bond? What is a mutual fund?  Growth Market  In 1978, as senior vice president and director of
advertising, Clayton was focused on women as a growth market for
Hutton, according to the Times. “Some of our smartest clients
are women,” went a Hutton campaign.  “It’s not a put-down,” Clayton said of the line,
 according  to the newspaper. “About 20 percent of our clients
are women, and we expect to increase our efforts by 15 percent
this year in both print and TV media to attract more of them.”  Survivors include his wife and six children, Andrew
Clayton, Robin Roach, Kathleen Veshosky, Kevin Clayton, Susan
Starkman and Christopher Clayton. He also is survived by 13
grandchildren, a great-granddaughter and a sister, Grace Folker
of  Portland ,  Maine .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  