-- Won Falls Most in Two Weeks on Fed Policy Concerns; Bonds Drop
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-06-10T06:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/won-snaps-four-day-gain-on-fed-policy-concerns-bonds-decline.html
The won weakened the most in more
than two weeks and government bonds fell on concerns the  Federal
Reserve  will taper its monetary stimulus, and slower growth in
 China  will hurt South Korean exports.  The dollar strengthened against most Asian currencies after
data on June 7 showed U.S. payrolls in May increased more than
economists estimated, fueling speculation the Fed will scale
back measures that have spurred fund flows into  emerging
markets . Reports over the weekend from China,  South Korea ’s
biggest overseas market, showed industrial-output growth missed
analysts’ estimates and export gains were at a 10-month low.  “The better-than-expected jobs data show U.S. fundamentals
are improving, and China’s export figures show its economic
recovery is relatively weak,” said Yoon Yeo Sam, a fixed-income
analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. in  Seoul . “This added
volatility to South Korean markets as foreign investors sold
won-denominated assets on rising bets the Fed will taper its
bond-buying program.”  The won fell 1 percent to 1,127.47 per dollar in Seoul, the
biggest decline since May 23, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose 40 basis
points, or 0.40 percentage point, to 9.92 percent.  U.S. payrolls rose by 175,000 in May, beating the 163,000
gain forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  last month pledged to maintain the stimulus until the
labor market shows signs of sustained improvement. The Fed will
trim its monthly purchases of Treasuries and mortgage debt to
$65 billion in October, a smaller cut than previously forecast,
from the current $85 billion, economists in a Bloomberg survey
projected before the jobs report.  Chinese Data  Foreign funds sold more South Korean shares than they
bought for a second day, exchange data show, after China’s
industrial production rose a less-than-forecast 9.2 percent from
a year earlier and factory-gate prices fell for a 15th month,
official data showed June 9. Overseas sales rose 1 percent from
a year earlier, a separate report showed June 8, while imports
dropped 0.3 percent.  The yield on the 2.75 percent bonds due March 2018 rose
five basis points to 2.97 percent, prices from Korea Exchange
Inc. show. That matched the level on June 5, which was the
highest for a benchmark five-year  security  in five months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  