-- Yen Rallies Most in 3 Years as BOJ Refrains From Added Stimulus
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-06-11T21:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-10/yen-holds-losses-versus-major-peers-before-boj-aussie-declines.html
The yen rose the most in three years
against the dollar as the Bank of Japan refrained from adding
more stimulus measures that tend to weaken a currency.  Japan’s currency snapped a two-day decline as BOJ Governor
Haruhiko Kuroda held back from extending the maturity of loans
to banks as part of its monetary stimulus that pushed the yen
down almost 10 percent this year. The currency extended gains
versus the dollar as Treasuries rallied even after demand
slumped at a Treasury auction of three-year notes.  Australia ’s
dollar dropped to an almost three-year low after data showed
 home-loan approvals  expanded by less than economists forecast.  “Markets hoped we’d see a little more supportive rhetoric
in terms of the policy backdrop from Kuroda,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, by phone from  London . “Whilst he gave us some warm
words, he didn’t really provide us any impetus to maintaining a
weaker yen bias.”  The yen strengthened 2.8 percent to 96.03 per dollar at 5
p.m. New York time, after rising as much as 3.2 percent, the
most on a closing basis since May 2010. It gained 2.4 percent to
127.84 per euro. Europe’s shared currency added 0.4 percent to
$1.3313, touching the strongest level on a closing basis since
Feb. 19.  Stocks, Swings  One-year implied volatility for the dollar-yen climbed to
12.8 percent, its highest level since September 2011. The Topix
index of Japanese stocks decreased 1 percent, while the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index of stocks declined 1 percent.  Treasuries rallied, with the 10-year note yield falling two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.19 percent even
after the bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.95, the
lowest since December 2010.  “The three-year note auction, I guess it was pretty
weak,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist for Gain
Capital Group LLC, by phone from New York.  Japan ’s Nikkei newspaper reported the Japanese FSA plans to
adopt a “bail-in” program to prevent taxpayer-funded rescues
of failing banks.  “Maybe it took just a little spark to set off the move and
it was the lack of liquidity,” said Brian Daingerfield,  a
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities unit by phone from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Dollar
longs are quite large and this position clear-out still has a
long way to go.” A long position is a bet that an asset will
increase in value.  Aussie Falls  Australia’s dollar touched its weakest level since 2010
versus the greenback as the nation’s statistics bureau said
April home-loan approvals rose 0.8 percent, versus the 2 percent
advance estimated by economists and a revised 4.8 percent gain
in March.  The currency decreased 0.4 percent to 94.27 U.S. cents
after reaching the lowest on a closing basis since Sept. 10,
2010.  “Housing is the one area most likely to make up for the
mining investment downturn, and it’s disappointed,” said  Joseph Capurso , a Sydney-based foreign-exchange strategist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)  “You’ve got to say that the
Aussie’s going to keep on falling.”  The Philippine peso fell for a fifth day against the dollar
after official figures showed overseas shipments from the
 Philippines  slipped 12.8 percent in April. That compares with a
5.3 percent estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists. The
jobless rate climbed to the highest in three years.  Ringgit Down  Malaysia’s ringgit weakened on speculation the Federal
Reserve will cut its monetary stimulus, slowing inflows into
emerging-market assets.  The peso fell 0.5 percent to 43.085 per dollar. Malaysia’s
currency depreciated 0.7 percent to 3.15 per dollar, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 3.1615, the weakest
level since July 27.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G-7 Volatility Index, based on
currency option premiums, reached 10.57 percent. It touched
10.62 percent on June 7, the highest level since June 2012.
Yields Italy’s 10-year government securities rose eight basis
points to 4.37 percent, while Spanish 10-year yields added six
basis points to 4.66 percent.  The BOJ kept unchanged its plan for a 60 trillion-yen to 70
trillion-yen annual increase in monetary base, the central bank
said after a two-day meeting ended today. All but three of 23
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey either forecast that the BOJ
would approve two-year or longer loan operations at the policy
meeting or said such a move was possible.  Kuroda said after the meeting that the central bank would
discuss longer fund operations when needed.  BOJ Projections  “Most investors didn’t expect any action, but a handful of
players thought officials might have done something to put a lid
on rising bond yields,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst at
Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co.,
said in a telephone interview from  Washington . “Since that
didn’t materialize, we’ve seen a sharp selloff in the Nikkei.
They didn’t do much to instill optimism that Japan is leaning
towards more action to settle markets.”  The yield on Japan’s benchmark  10-year bond  climbed five
basis points to 0.89 percent. It has swung from an all-time low
of 0.315 percent to as much as 1 percent since the BOJ announced
in April a plan to double monthly bond purchases to more than 7
trillion yen.  The yen has climbed 6.2 percent in the past month, the best
performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar was down 0.3
percent and the euro has risen 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  