-- ‘Goldman Sachs With Guns’ Joins Sumo on Ropes: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2011-02-07T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/-goldman-sachs-with-guns-joins-sumo-on-ropes-william-pesek.html
Events in  Egypt  have journalists
around the world asking: Hmmm, could that happen here?  In Tokyo, the answer is no. The student riots of 1968
remind us never to say never. The thought of today’s youths
congregating at Shibuya Crossing, tossing Molotov cocktails and
demanding the ouster of Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , though, is a
colossal reach. Mass protests in Japan are a rare, rare thing.  Yet there are fresh signs that the nation’s 126 million
people are hankering for change. Even if Japanese aren’t about
to join Tunisians and Egyptians on revolutionary road, a brewing
backlash against these three long-tolerated elements of society
offers a whiff of hope: The yakuza, politics and sumo.  Under the surface, Japan is undergoing an historic identity
crisis as living standards slide and the privileged class acts
as if it’s business as usual. It’s driving a desire for change
and greater accountability that could alter Japan’s trajectory.
It could mean more growth and less deflation and debt.  A strong sense of entitlement has long prevailed at the
upper levels of Japanese society. Politicians thought they were
above the law and answered to no one. Gangsters operated in
plain view, handing out business cards and branching out into
legitimate businesses like banking. The fabled national sport of
sumo swatted away allegations of match-fixing.  That was all fine when Japan was rising, markets were
lively and the future was bright. Tolerance is dwindling with
monthly consumer-price-index readings. Japanese are becoming
less accepting of the lavish lives of the powerful, the famous
and the crooked now that times are tough.  Yakuza Crackdown  One sign patience is evaporating is the crackdown on the
yakuza, Japan’s organized crime families. As police clamped down
on sex, drugs and gambling, the yakuza diversified into real
estate, construction and stocks. It’s the latter focus that 
prompted Jake Adelstein, author of “ Tokyo Vice ,” to dub the 
yakuza “Goldman Sachs with guns.”  Japan’s estimated 80,000 gangsters were turned away from
the big construction daddy of them all: the 2,080-foot (634-
meters) Tokyo Sky Tree tower project. The escalating war on the
mob reflects public discontent with the underbelly of Japan Inc.  “As to the timing of this push, some motivation is set
within the continually declining economy,” says Brett Bull, who
runs the  Tokyo Reporter  website covering Japanese subculture.
“Dealing with gangsters adds costs.”  The second sign that the winds of change are blowing
involves  Ichiro Ozawa . No single politician is responsible for
the widening gap between rich and poor and Japan’s declining
global stature. Yet for many people, Ozawa will do.  ‘Shadow Shogun’  The 68-year-old former head of the ruling  Democratic Party 
of Japan is known as the “Shadow Shogun” for his wheeler-
dealer back-room ways. His indictment last month for allegedly
violating campaign finance laws cast a pall over Japan’s ability
to pass a record budget and allay concerns over soaring debt. If
ever there were a sign times are changing,  Standard & Poor’s 
cutting Japan’s credit rating to the same level as  China  is it.  Ozawa, a powerbroker within his party, personifies the
resistance to change that put the nation on a downward
trajectory. He has hung on year after year, refusing to resign
from parliament. The indictment reflects growing disillusionment
with Japan’s sclerotic politics and its “silver democracy.”  Japan’s leadership is aging with the population. It
controls the budget and coddles its key constituency: the
elderly. No wonder twenty-something Japanese lack optimism. Far
from working at the real Goldman Sachs Group Inc., many are low-
wage “freeters” going from temporary job to temporary job.  Old Japan  Kan created a panel to propose ways to manage the world’s
latest public debt. Its two most vocal members are economic
bigwigs Hakuo Yanagisawa, 75, and Kaoru Yosano, 72, who want to
double the  consumption tax . In other words, two men well above
Japan’s average retirement age want young consumers to pay more
to support the over-65 set. Hardly a shock.  Also, it’s always struck me as odd that the two most
outspoken critics of Japan Inc.’s geriatric ways, Takafumi Horie
and Yoshiaki Murakami, ended up in jail while Ozawa roamed free.
Internet entrepreneur Horie was in his early 30s when he was
locked up for alleged  insider trading ; shareholder activist
Murakami was in his mid-40s. It’s an amazing coincidence.  The third change indicator is sumo. Turns out, it is indeed
fixed. Police found mobile-phone messages showing wrestlers were
fixing matches, just as many people -- including Adelstein and
the authors of 2005’s “ Freakonomics ” -- long suspected.  Wrestling With Sumo  Sumo fascinates me because it’s a microcosm of the economy.
It’s completely male dominated and has a broken model, an uneasy
acceptance of foreigners, a rapidly aging fan base and limited
interest in tweaking its franchise for overseas consumption.  What’s interesting, though, is that this story isn’t being
swept under the tatami mat. It’s getting wide and breathless
play, driven by edgier media outlets catering to segments of the
population that are fed up with the status quo.  Predicting new dawns in Japan is a fool’s game. Yet the
typically docile masses are getting antsy and speaking out.
We’re not talking revolution here, yet for this change-resistant
nation, these are heartening signs.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  