-- 888 Says Operating Income Advances on Poker; Talks With Ladbrokes Continue
-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 2011-02-07T16:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/888-says-operating-income-gains-talks-with-ladbrokes-continue.html
  888 Holdings Plc , a U.K.-listed
Internet gambling company that supplies services to Caesars
Entertainment Corp., said talks with  Ladbrokes Plc  continue, and
fourth-quarter operating income gained 5 percent over the year-
earlier period.  Operating income in the period was $71.3 million, the
Gibraltar-based company said in a statement. Talks continue with
Ladbrokes, a U.K. bookmaker, the company said, after the Mail on
Sunday said yesterday Ladbrokes might walk away because a bid
was rejected as too low.  Poker income rebounded from a slump earlier last year as
the company started an advertising campaign in July directed at
casual players, Levy said. 888 said bingo income more than
quadrupled to $14.1 million, as Wink Bingo, acquired in Dec.
2009, exceeded forecasts, the company said.  “There’s still interest on both sides,” Chief Executive
Officer Gigi Levy said of the Ladbrokes talks in an interview.
“Our current numbers only make us more appealing.”  888 rose 0.75 pence, or 1.7 percent, to 44.5 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close in  London . The shares have declined 57 percent
over the past 12 months, giving the company a market value of
153.7 million pounds ($248 million).  888 said it expects earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization for the full year to meet
analysts’ estimates.  Bingo Income  Bingo income rose as the company added six instant games,
the company said. Wink Bingo did so well its “earn out”
payments, or an arrangement where the sellers of a business
receive extra future payment, will be at the “upper end,” the
company said.  888 said it is in “advanced discussions” with Wink Bingo
vendors over the timing and structure of the payments.  The payments could be as much as 48 million pounds, which
compares with 888’s gross cash position of $67 million,
according to  Nick Batram , an analyst with Peel Hunt.  “We believe that the most likely outcome is a
restructuring of the earn-out as opposed to an equity fund
raising,” Batram wrote in a note to investors. He has a
“sell” rating on the shares. “Either way it is another factor
that suggests 888 is not in a position of strength when
negotiating a sale of the business.”  Poker operating income recovered to $10.6 million, from $8
million in last year’s second quarter, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Altaner at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net  