-- Aaron Rodgers Joins Starr, Favre, Leading Green Bay to Win in Super Bowl
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2011-02-07T06:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/aaron-rodgers-joins-starr-favre-leading-green-bay-to-win-in-super-bowl.html
  Aaron Rodgers  joined Hall-of-Famer
Bart Starr and  Brett Favre  in leading the  Green Bay Packers  to
the Super Bowl title, earning his own place in National Football
League history along the way.  Rodgers, the Most Valuable Player in the Packers’ 31-25 win
over the Pittsburgh Steelers, completed 24 of 39 passes for 304
yards and three touchdowns in the game. He joined Kurt Warner as
the only quarterback with more than 1,000 yards and nine
touchdown passes in a single postseason.  “It’s what you dream about as a kid,” Rodgers said after
the game at  Cowboys Stadium  in Arlington,  Texas .  Coach  Mike McCarthy  said the offensive game plan centered
on his quarterback. The Packers’ 13 rushing attempts tied a
record set by the  St. Louis Rams  for fewest by a winning team.  “We put this game on his shoulders,” McCarthy said. “He
went out there and had total command of the offense.”  Steelers quarterback  Ben Roethlisberger , a two-time Super
Bowl winner, completed 25 of 40 passes, with two touchdowns and
two interceptions, including one that was returned for a
touchdown. Pittsburgh Coach Mike Tomlin said Rodgers played like
a champion.  “He didn’t fold under the pressure,” Tomlin said. “I
thought we hit him some early. We got to him as the game went
on. He showed his mettle and continued to stand in there and
throw the football and throw it accurately. I tip my hat to him
for that.”  Long Road  It’s been a long road for the 27-year-old Rodgers, who was
touted as a potential No. 1 draft pick before falling to the
Packers with the 24th selection. He spent three years backing up
Favre, a three-time NFL most-valuable player who led Green Bay
to a  Super Bowl  title after the 1996 season and who, in that
time, never missed a game.  General Manager Ted Thompson said the experience helped the
younger quarterback mature, giving him time to “watch, listen
and learn.”  “People are going to write stories about him 10 years from
now,” Thompson said. “He’s pretty special. Even though he’s
done so much, he’s still just kind of getting started.”  Thompson decided that Rodgers’s time had arrived in 2008.
When Favre announced his retirement, changed his mind and tried
to return to the team, the Packers traded one of the league’s
most popular and successful players to the  New York Jets .  Rodgers beat the  Minnesota Vikings  on opening day that
season, marking the first time since 1992 that someone other
than Favre started at quarterback for the Packers.  “The situation he stepped into, replacing an icon, not
many people could have stood up to that and performed the way he
has,” Packers President Mark Murphy said after the game.  Backing From Packers  Rodgers said he always felt like the organization believed
in him.  “I told Ted back in 2005 that he wouldn’t be sorry with
this pick,” Rodgers said. “I told him in 08 that I was going
to repay their trust and get us this opportunity.”  When the moment came, Rodgers proved he deserved it. On his
first scoring drive, he completed five consecutive passes to
lead  Green Bay  80 yards, finding receiver Jordy Nelson for a 29-
yard completion that ended with a dive into the end zone.  Rodgers threw another touchdown pass in the second quarter
that sliced 21 yards between two defenders and hit receiver Greg Jennings on the goal line.  In the second half, the Steelers closed the deficit to
three points as the Packers offense slowed.  Long Breaks  “We never really got our momentum back until the fourth
quarter,” Rodgers said. “In a game like this, with the long TV
time outs, you lose your sweat. You lose your feel. You don’t
have those back-to-back plays, back-to-back possessions where
you are still feeling like you are loose.”  In the fourth quarter, he found that momentum again. With
the Packers holding a 28-25 lead, Rodgers brought the offense 75
yards in 10 plays, completing four out of five passes and taking
5:27 off the clock. He again connected with Jennings, with a 31-
yard throw on a third-and-10 play, before finding  James Jones 
for 21 yards, putting the team in position for a field goal, the
last score of the game.  Afterwards, a reporter shouted to Rodgers that Favre, who
hold numerous records, never won the Super Bowl most-valuable
player award. Rodgers grinned.  “Is that a question?” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net . 