-- Actelion Should Disclose Approaches, Elliott Says
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2011-02-07T17:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/actelion-should-disclose-takeover-approaches-publicly-elliott-fund-says.html
  Actelion Ltd . should disclose
publicly any takeover approaches received in the past year and
how the offers were evaluated, according to Elliott Advisors
(UK) Ltd., the largest shareholder in the biotechnology company.  Elliott, part of a $17 billion hedge fund founded by Paul Singer, wants to meet Actelion Chairman Robert Cawthorn and
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Clozel before the company
reports earnings Feb. 17, the firm wrote in a letter to the
board. Allschwil, Switzerland-based Actelion should reveal
“formal or informal approaches” about a potential sale and how
the board will evaluate future expressions of interest, Elliott
said.  The letter is the second by Elliott in four days to
challenge Actelion over management of the company and the desire
to remain independent.  Amgen Inc ., the world’s largest
biotechnology company, has been considering a takeover bid for
Actelion, people familiar with the situation said in November.  “Elliott is deeply concerned that the company’s current
strategy risks destroying a significant proportion of  shareholder value ,” the firm wrote in today’s letter, which it
made public. “It is the board’s fiduciary duty to provide
Actelion’s owners the proper information to make an informed
choice about Actelion’s future.”  Call for Resignation  Actelion rose the most in more than 11 weeks in Zurich
trading Feb. 4 after Elliott said Cawthorn should resign, Clozel
should step down from the board and the company should form a
strategic committee to consider options. The firm will propose
the steps at the annual shareholder meeting May 5.  The proposals “risk destabilizing the company,” Actelion
said in a statement the same day. Roland Haefeli, a spokesman
for Actelion, didn’t immediately respond to a call and e-mail
seeking comment on today’s letter.  Actelion fell 20 centimes, or 0.4 percent, to close at
54.40 Swiss francs in Zurich trading, valuing the company at
6.99 billion francs ($7.3 billion). The stock has gained 6.3
percent this year.  The company said Jan. 28 it halted development of an
experimental insomnia pill because of concern that patients
wouldn’t be able to tolerate the medicine. Actelion’s Tracleer
medicine, which dominates the market for a lung condition called
pulmonary arterial hypertension, failed a test to widen its use
last year. The clazosentan drug didn’t help patients who had
suffered from bleeding in the brain in another study.  Strategic Committee  While the formation of a strategic committee would give
shareholders more control over Actelion’s future, it “would not
equate to putting the company up for sale,” the fund said.  “The company’s high-risk strategy of investing heavily in
new and unproven compounds, despite its poor track record at
delivering new products to market in the last four years,
deserves to be open to proper scrutiny and shareholders deserve
to be given a choice about whether this remains the best course
for the company to pursue,” wrote Elliott, which said it has an
almost 6 percent stake.  Clozel met in December with Amgen’s CEO to discuss the U.S.
company’s interest in the Swiss manufacturer and no formal offer
was made, according to three people with knowledge of the
matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  