-- Germany's DAX Index Rises to Highest Level Since January 2008; BMW Gains
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2011-02-08T16:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/adidas-deutsche-bank-volkswagen-may-move-german-equity-market-preview.html
German stocks rose for a fourth day,
sending the benchmark  DAX Index  to the highest level since
January 2008, as a rally in carmakers overshadowed an increase
in  China ’s interest rates.    Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  rose 4.7 percent as automakers
across Europe rallied after Toyota Motor Corp. raised its 2011
profit forecast. Daimler climbed 3.1 percent as Financial Times
Deutschland reported that the company wants to sell a 15 percent
stake in European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. this year.  The DAX gained 0.5 percent to 7,323.24 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Frankfurt. The gauge has jumped 5.9 percent this year
amid optimism that the global economic recovery is gathering
strength. The broader HDAX Index rose 0.6 percent today.  “The private sector is the fuel for the future,” said ABN
Amro Private Banking’s Chief Investment Officer Didier Duret,
who manages about $200 billion, in a phone interview. “We are
seeing a re-acceleration of growth and a broadening of growth
momentum. We maintain a rather positive view on equities, though
in some areas there are valuation concerns.”  Stocks pared gains after China raised  interest rates  for
the third time since mid-October. The People’s Bank of China
increased the one-year deposit rate by 25 basis points effective
tomorrow, according to a statement on the central bank’s
website. The one-year lending rate was also raised by 25 basis
points, the statement said.  “Traders have been expecting more fiscal action from China
to curb spiraling inflation and this is seen as the latest move
in these efforts,” said Sean Power, an equity analyst at  City
Index . Ltd. in London.  Industrial Production  Stocks advanced even after a report showed industrial
production in  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, unexpectedly
fell for a second month in December as cold temperatures sparked
a construction slump.  Output dropped 1.5 percent from November, when it slipped a
revised 0.6 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists had forecast a 0.2 percent gain, the median of 38
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  BMW, the world’s largest maker of luxury cars, gained 4.7
percent to 61.59 euros. Automakers rallied across  Europe  after
Toyota Motor Corp. raised its full-year profit forecast by 40
percent.  Daimler, the second-biggest luxury carmaker, rose 3.1
percent to 55.28 euros. The company wants to sell its 15 percent
stake in EADS, Financial Times Deutschland reported, without
saying where it got the information.  Daimler is due to be questioned as soon as tomorrow by
Paris judges leading a nearly five-year-old probe into insider
trading at EADS, according to a person familiar with the case.
“We will cooperate,” said Florian Martens, a spokesman for
Daimler.    Deutsche Wohnen AG  climbed 4.5 percent to 10.78 euros.
Germany’s second-largest publicly traded residential landlord
was rated “overweight” in new coverage at Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net .. 