-- Galleon, Madoff, UBS, Bank of America in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2011-02-07T11:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/madoff-ubs-chameleon-peabody-bank-of-america-in-court-news.html
Raj Rajaratnam wants jurors at his
insider-trading trial told that he was a professional stock
analyst who broke no laws by speaking to corporate insiders as
he worked to “ferret out” information.  With jury selection three weeks away, John Dowd, the lead
defense lawyer for the Galleon Group LLC hedge fund co-founder,
gave the judge a proposal for instructing jurors on the law,
offering the most detailed insight yet into his defense
strategy.  “As the steward of his investors’ money, Mr. Rajaratnam
had a fiduciary duty to trade in securities that he thought had
attractive investment potential,” Dowd said in a Feb. 2 court
filing on the proposed language. “The law permits analysts and
investment advisers to speak with corporate insiders” and it’s
common “for analysts to ferret out and analyze information.”  Rajaratnam, 53, goes on trial Feb. 28 in Manhattan federal
court in what prosecutors said is the biggest U.S. crackdown on
insider trading by hedge funds. The Sri Lanka native is accused
of making more than $40 million in illegal trades dating back to
2003 at his New York-based fund and faces as many as 20 years in
prison if convicted of the most serious charges. He denies
wrongdoing.  At least a half-dozen traders are cooperating with the
government, and more than 30 people have been accused in alleged
conspiracies tied to the case, the first to make extensive use
of phone taps to detect Wall Street insider-trading.  Rajaratnam is accused of using secret tips from hedge fund
executives, corporate officials and other insiders to trade in
more than a dozen stocks, including  Intel Corp .,  International
Business Machines Corp .,  Akamai Technologies Inc .,  Google Inc .
and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc .  His defense remains something of a mystery, the government
has said. Jessie Erwin, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara, declined to comment.  “The defendant has gone to great lengths to keep from the
government the witnesses he intends to call and the defense
theories he intends to present,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Jonathan Streeter wrote in court papers Jan. 26.  Dowd has chided prosecutors for trying to “smoke out”
details before the trial begins.  Also Feb. 4, Rajaratnam asked the judge to exclude evidence
of trades in the stocks of Procter & Gamble Co. and three other
companies that he says the government seeks to introduce at
trial. Prosecutors “attempt to add four entirely new stocks to
the case,” including  Nvidia Corp ., Intersil Corp. and Vishay
Intertechnology Inc., in letters dated Dec. 2, 2010, and Jan.
20, according to the filing.  Rajaratnam’s lawyers may be planning to argue that their
client tried hard to stay within the confines of the law.  “The law is not violated if the defendant acted in good
faith and held an honest belief that his actions were proper,”
reads one of the proposed jury instructions.   The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Mets Owners’ Bayou Accord May Be Model for a Madoff Deal  The owners of the  New York Mets  baseball team, should they
resume talks with the trustee for  Bernard Madoff ’s defunct firm,
might model any settlement on an earlier deal involving Bayou
Group LLC’s Ponzi scheme.  In the Bayou settlement, the Mets owners gave up all fake
profits they made in that $400 million fraud plus 44 percent of
their principal after a judge ruled their initial investment
could be pursued because of “red flags” they saw about the
possibility of a fraud.  Trustee Irving Picard wants to recover about $300 million
in alleged phony profits from Madoff’s scheme made by Sterling
Equities Inc., which owns the Mets baseball team, Mets Chairman
Fred Wilpon, Mets President Saul Katz and Chief Operating
Officer Jeff Wilpon, and other related parties. Picard also
demanded an unspecified amount of principal back from the
Sterling defendants.  The Wilpons said they are exploring the possibility of
selling as much as 25 percent of the Mets to deal with any
“uncertainty” generated by Picard’s suit. Such a sale might
produce no more than $215 million, based on estimated valuations
of the team. The amount of principal Picard recovers through
settlement or trial might require selling more assets.  Picard didn’t specify how much principal he wants, saying
that would be determined at trial or before. The Wilpons and
their lawyers didn’t say how much the owners had invested with
Madoff. Picard said Madoff took in $20 billion in principal from
clients who thought they had $68 billion in their accounts.  Kevin McCue, a spokesman for Picard, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail asking how much he wants of what the Mets
defendants put into Madoff, or whether Picard will use the Bayou
formula in taking back principal.  In the Bayou hedge-fund case, the bankruptcy judge said
investors who saw “red flags” indicating a fraud can be forced
to give back principal as well as profits. Picard’s 373-page
complaint cites “many red flags” that should have warned the
Sterling partners that Madoff was a fraud.  Merrill Lynch & Co., which was a 50 percent partner with an
entity affiliated with Mets owners, had “a long-standing
prohibition” against investing with Madoff, and told Saul Katz
in 2007 that Madoff wouldn’t pass Merrill Lynch’s “due
diligence protocols,” according to Picard’s complaint.  Howard Wohl, co-founder of Ivy Asset Management LLC, warned
Saul and David Katz and Arthur Friedman about Madoff at a
meeting in early 2002 to discuss the formation of the Merrill-
owned entity, Sterling Stamos, a hedge fund partnership of
Sterling and Peter Stamos, Picard said.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 10-05287, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Primary Global Consultant Passed Tips to Hedge Funds, SEC Says  A  Primary Global Research LLC  consultant facing federal
insider-trading charges spoke with at least 11 hedge funds over
14 months and leaked stock tips to some of them, regulators
said.  Walter Shimoon, a former  Flextronics International Ltd .
manager who worked as a consultant for Primary Global, was among
six people sued Feb. 3 by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. All six were previously arrested and two have
pleaded guilty.  The SEC complaint sheds new details on the alleged insider-
trading scheme at Primary Global, highlighting the scope of
Shimoon’s hedge fund contacts.  “From December 2008 to January 2010, Shimoon spoke with
representatives of at least 11 different hedge funds,” the SEC
said in its complaint filed in federal court in New York.
“Brokerage records show that the hedge funds used the inside
information that Shimoon provided during these calls to trade
the securities of at least Flextronics and Omnivision,” a
reference to Omnivision Technologies Inc.  Others sued by the SEC include two former Primary Global
employees -- James Fleishman, a former sales manager, and Bob
Nguyen, an ex-technology analyst -- and three Primary Global
consultants, Mark. A. Longoria, Daniel L. DeVore and Winifred
Jiau. Nguyen, 32, and DeVore, 46, pleaded guilty and are
cooperating with prosecutors.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Longoria,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  EU Weighs Group Lawsuits for Antitrust, Consumer Complaints  The European Union is seeking views on introducing EU rules
to allow more group lawsuits for antitrust violations and
consumer complaints.  European countries have no common system for combining
individual lawsuits into a group claim and this “gives rise to
uneven enforcement” of consumer and business rights to seek
damages from price-fixers and others, the European Commission
said in a document published on its website Feb. 4.  Any European rules to encourage group lawsuits “should not
give any economic incentive to bring abusive claims,” the
document said. It suggested that the losing party could pay
legal fees for both sides of a case to limit abusive litigation.  Neelie Kroes, the former EU competition commissioner,
championed group lawsuits as a way to compensate victims of
illegal monopolies and cartels. Such lawsuits, in addition to
fines that can reach millions of euros, might help victims
recover losses and deter antitrust violations, she argued.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  BP’s Pursuit of Cost-Cutting Led to Gulf Spill, Lawyers Say  Officers and directors of  BP Plc , pursuing cost-cutting
over safety, ignored “red flags” that could have prevented the
explosion of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the Gulf of
Mexico, lawyers for investors said.  The Louisiana Municipal Police Employees’ Retirement System
and other investors claim BP executives and directors breached
their fiduciary duties to the company by ignoring safety and
maintenance for years before BP’s Macondo well exploded April
20. The investors seek reforms in BP management and damages from
the executives and board members to be paid to the company.  “Despite repeated guilty pleas, warnings, employee deaths
and injuries, and criminal and civil penalties imposed on the
company by numerous federal and state regulators, the defendants
continued to systematically cut budgets,” the investors’
lawyers said in a court filing on Feb. 4. “The defendants’
decisions and deliberate inaction caused one of the largest
environmental disasters in the history of the U.S.”  The investors’ suit, a so-called derivative claim brought
on behalf of the company, is combined with other shareholder
actions in federal court in Houston. The Louisiana pension fund
initially filed the derivative lawsuit in May, within weeks of
the explosion, and was joined by similar claims by other
investors. Lawyers for the investors filed a combined amended
complaint, adding details to their claims.  The lawsuit is among hundreds filed in U.S. courts after
the well explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon in
April, which set off the largest offshore oil spill in U.S.
history. Injury, economic loss and environmental claims are
combined before a federal judge in New Orleans.  U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison in Houston is
overseeing three categories of BP investor claims consolidated
in his court -- derivative suits brought on behalf of the
company, shareholder securities fraud suits claiming diminished
share value and claims by BP employees alleging losses from
mismanagement of their retirement savings funds.  Daren Beaudo, a BP spokesman, didn’t return e-mail and
voice-mail messages after regular business hours on Feb. 4.  The case is In re BP Shareholder Derivative Litigation,
4:10-cv-03447, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Legal Reviews  UBS May Be Sued by SEC Over Puerto Rico Closed-End Bond Funds    UBS AG  may be sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission over the sale of mutual funds that bought $1.5
billion in bonds Switzerland’s largest bank had underwritten in
Puerto Rico.  The SEC’s Miami office issued a Wells notice to UBS
Financial Services Inc. of Puerto Rico and UBS Financial
Services Inc. regarding “secondary market trading and
associated disclosures” of closed-end funds sold in the
Caribbean island in 2008 and 2009, the Zurich-based firm said in
a  report to investors . The notification typically lets
recipients respond to investigators’ claims before the agency
approves legal action. The SEC may decide to not pursue a case.  UBS, a former financial adviser to the island’s Employees
Retirement System that provides pensions for government workers,
led the 2008 sale of $2.9 billion in bonds by the pension fund.
The sale produced $27 million in fees for the Swiss bank and its
co-underwriters. A UBS manager bought $1.5 billion of the
securities and put them into 20 mutual funds, also sold by the
bank. The bonds represented about 17 percent of the funds’ $8.9
billion in assets at the time.  “The whole thing from the ground up was riddled with
conflicts of interest that could only work to the advantage of
UBS and not in the interest of investors,” James Cox, professor
of law at Duke University School of Law in Durham, North
Carolina, said in an interview. “These Wells notices tend to
not go away easily, and there is a lot of pressure on the
enforcement side to turn these cases around quickly.”  Hector Mayol, the administrator of the Puerto Rico pension
fund, said in an interview that the SEC last year requested
documents concerning UBS’s underwriting of the bonds, which he
has provided.    John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC in Washington,
declined to comment. according to fund reports posted on the
bank’s website.  “UBS believes the funds have been excellent long-term
investments for investors and has submitted a formal response
outlining the reasons why it believes no enforcement action is
warranted,” Karina Byrne, a spokeswoman for UBS, said in an e-
mailed statement. “The firm also maintains that the negative
financial results, if any, to shareholders of the funds who
traded their shares through UBS during the relevant periods were
less than $5 million in the aggregate.”  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Chameleon Allowed Appeal Hearing in Iron Ore Dispute    Chameleon Mining NL  was allowed a hearing in an Australian
federal appeals court as it bids to overturn a judge’s ruling
that dismissed the company’s claim to  Murchison Metals Ltd .’s
iron ore project in Western Australia.  The appeals court agreed to a quick hearing, according to
statements from Murchison and Chameleon Feb. 4. Sydney-based
Chameleon said it expects the appeal to be heard in May.  Murchison, an iron ore producer for the Chinese market, is
building an A$4 billion ($4.1 billion) iron ore rail and port
project with Mitsubishi Corp. The companies are partners in
Crosslands Resources Ltd., which is developing the Jack Hills
project in Western Australia.  Chameleon, a gold explorer, said Murchison used its money
to help a company called Winterfall make an A$350,000 payment to
buy the western Australian property and as a result it was
entitled to a stake in the project. Murchison, which had said
the transfer was a loan, later bought Winterfall to obtain the
mining property.  Australia Federal Court Judge Peter Jacobson ruled in
October that Chameleon is entitled to a portion of the profit
from the project, not a stake in it nor in Murchison’s shares in
Crosslands.  Peabody Seeks to Void EPA’s Carbon Limits as Not Tough Enough    Peabody Energy Corp ., the largest U.S. coal producer, is
trying to block the Environmental Protection Agency from
imposing limits on greenhouse-gas emissions by arguing the rules
don’t go far enough.  Opponents seeking to halt the EPA’s effort to reduce carbon
spewed by power plants and factories contend in lawsuits that
the Clean Air Act doesn’t let regulators pick which companies
must comply. The agency exempted small businesses such as dry
cleaners and bakeries from rules that took effect last month.  Republicans in Congress proposed legislation this week to
ban the EPA from acting. Companies such as Peabody, business
groups including the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  and states led by
Texas are seeking to stop the agency through more than 25
lawsuits before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia. Their lawyers say the EPA’s effort to limit businesses
affected may provide their best argument against the agency.  “There is an extremely strong argument that the EPA has
acted contrary to law,” said Shannon Goessling, executive
director and chief legal counsel at the  Southeastern Legal
Foundation , an Atlanta-based firm that advocates limited
government and is suing the EPA on behalf of companies and
lawmakers. “They have rewritten the Clean Air Act and
completely excluded Congress from the process.”  The EPA argued in an Oct. 28 court filing that the
tailoring rule is acceptable under the Clean Air Act and
necessary to avoid states being overrun with permit requests.  “In striking down the tailoring rule, the court would have
to disagree that it’s absurd to regulate Dunkin’ Donuts and dry
cleaners,” Jackson said in an August interview. “If any time
an absurd-results argument seems to be evident, this would be
one of them.”  The federal appeals court, the venue for challenges to U.S.
rules, hasn’t set a date for arguments.  The court could uphold the regulations, declare them
unlawful and send them back to the EPA or rule that the agency
has to regulate across-the-board rather than selectively, said
Kevin Holewinski, an attorney with Jones Day who has represented
manufacturers, oil and gas companies and utilities.      The
case is Coalition for Responsible Regulation Inc. v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 09-1322, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Bank of America to Pay $410 Million in Overdraft Case    Bank of America Corp ., the largest U.S. lender by assets,
agreed to pay $410 million to settle lawsuits alleging deceptive
practices in the management of customer accounts that led to
excessive fees for overdrafts.  The settlement was dated Jan. 27, according to a court
filing by Bank of America and lawyers for consumers. Overdraft
class actions, unified in 2009 from across the country in Miami
federal court, alleged breach of contract, unjust enrichment and
usury by more than two dozen banks. Institutions including  Citigroup Inc .,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Wells Fargo & Co . were
named in related lawsuits.  Miami resident Ralph Torres described in his suit against
Bank of America how he opened an account in 2000 after seeing
advertisements for “free checking.” Torres alleged he was
tricked into believing he had more money in his account than was
the case, and that Bank of America debited his funds in a way
that made it more likely he would incur overdraft fees.  Bruce Rogow, an attorney for the customers, declined to
comment. Christopher Tarbell, an attorney for the bank, didn’t
return an e-mail seeking comment.  Anne Pace, a spokeswoman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America, said the bank has already made changes to
its overdraft policies, including the elimination of overdraft
fees for debit card transactions and reduced fees for customers
who overdraw their accounts.  The case is In Re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
09-02036, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
Florida (Miami).  For more, click here.  TPG’s Gowrish Broke Insider-Trading Laws, Jury Says  Vinayak Gowrish, a former associate at private-equity firm
TPG Capital LP, violated U.S. insider-trading laws by leaking
information about pending acquisitions to a friend, a federal
court jury found.  The jury sided with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Feb. 4 against Gowrish in a civil trial in San
Francisco, Robert Kaplan, co-chief of the SEC’s asset-management
unit, said Feb. 4 in a telephone interview.  The agency sued Gowrish, of San Francisco, in December 2009
claiming that he fed tips on takeover talks involving Sabre
Holding Corp. TXU Corp. and Alliance Data Systems Corp. to a
friend who was an investment banker at Lazard Freres & Co.
Gowrish received cash and other benefits for the tips, the SEC
claimed.  “Private-equity firms are key players in the capital
formation process and routinely possess material nonpublic
information,” Kaplan said. “When employees of those firms like
Gowrish betray investors for personal profit, the commission
stands ready to hold them accountable.”  The government is seeking disgorgement of trading profits,
civil penalties and a court order against further violations of
insider-trading law.  John Hemann, Gowrish’s attorney, didn’t return a voice-mail
message seeking comment.  The case is SEC v. Gowrish, 3:09-05883, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Father-Son Developers Each Get 10 Years in Tax Case  A father and son convicted of hiding a $33 million hotel
sale from U.S. tax authorities while living a lavish lifestyle
were sentenced to 10 years each in prison.  Mauricio Cohen Assor, 78, and Leon Cohen Levy, 46, were
sentenced in federal court in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, where
they were convicted Oct. 7 of conspiring to defraud the Internal
Revenue Service and filing false tax returns. Both men, who
built hotels under the “Flatotel” brand, told jurors that they
were innocent. They faced as long as 11 years in prison.  Prosecutors said the Cohens used offshore companies,
friends and family posing as owners, and forged documents to
cheat the IRS. The Cohens should have declared income for using
mansions and cars that they said were owned by corporations,
prosecutors said. The Cohens sought home detention.  The Cohens lied on the witness stand, suborned perjury by
other witnesses, and went to great lengths to conceal $33
million they received in the 2000 sale of the New York Flatotel,
Daly told the judge. He said the men put the money in a Swiss
account of  HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s largest bank by market
value, and moved it to other offshore accounts.  The men also hid their ownership of a company that invested
as much as $45 million, lived in Miami Beach mansions, and drove
cars like a Porsche Carrera GT bought for $500,000, Daly said.  “I’m really disappointed in the sentence,” said Susan
Bozorgi, an attorney for the father. “Ten years essentially is
a death sentence.”  The case is U.S. v. Assor, 10-cr-60159, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  FDIC Appoints Michael Krimminger as Agency’s General Counsel  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman Sheila Bair said
Michael H. Krimminger will be the agency’s new general counsel
effective Feb. 4.  Krimminger has been a policy adviser to Bair and the board
since 2006, leading development of policy initiatives such as
the agency’s authority for liquidating systemically important
companies when they fail, the FDIC said in a statement.  Before joining the FDIC, Krimminger practiced banking law
and litigation in  Los Angeles  and Washington, according to the
FDIC. He is a graduate of the University of North Carolina and
received a law degree from Duke University School of Law, the
agency said.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  Court Filings  TIAA-CREF Suit Against BofA Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  A lawsuit against Bank of America Corp.’s Countrywide
Financial unit, which was accused of “massive fraud” in a
lawsuit by investors who claim they were misled about mortgage-
backed securities, was the most-read litigation docket on the
Bloomberg Law system last week.  TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York Life Insurance Co.
and Dexia Holdings Inc. are among a dozen institutional
investors who filed the complaint Jan. 24 in New York state
Supreme Court.  The investors claim they bought hundreds of millions of
dollars of Countrywide mortgage-backed securities from 2005 to
2007 because they wanted conservative, low-risk investments.
They said they relied on term sheets, prospectuses and other
materials provided by the firm that were recklessly or knowingly
false.  The complaint names more than 20 defendants, including
Countrywide Home Loans Inc., Bank of America, Countrywide co-
founder and former Chief Executive Officer Angelo Mozilo and
other former executives.  “We will review the suit, but on first glance this sounds
like a large, sophisticated investor who now wants to blame
someone for the fact that the declining economy caused its
investment to lose value,” Shirley Norton, a spokeswoman for
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America, said in an e-
mail on Jan. 25.  “The lawsuit against Mr. Mozilo has no basis in law or
fact,” David Siegel, an attorney for Mozilo, said in an e-
mailed statement. “We expect to prevail against these
plaintiffs as we have against other disgruntled, sophisticated
MBS investors.”  The case is Dexia Holdings v. Countrywide Financial Corp.,
650185/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 