-- Aging Baby Boomers Reduce Jobless Rate: Matus
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2011-02-07T22:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/aging-baby-boomers-reduce-u-s-unemployment-rate-matus-says-tom-keene.html
(Corrects dateline to today.)  Unemployment in the U.S. may fall
faster than expected as baby boomers enter retirement, reducing
the portion of people in the workforce, according to  Drew Matus ,
senior U.S. economist at UBS Securities LLC.  Labor force participation has fallen to the lowest level
since 1984, largely because older people are leaving the worker
ranks, Matus said today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . If participation remains this
low, employers need to create fewer jobs to reduce the
unemployment rate, currently at 9 percent.  “There’s a cyclical downturn in the labor force
participation rate, but there’s also a structural one related to
the baby boomers that a lot of Wall Street economists are
missing,” Matus said. “When you add the two up, you’re seeing
this very dramatic drop in the participation rate. It might not
bounce this time around.”  The participation rate shows the amount of people working
or looking for work as a share of the population. With the
oldest  baby boomers  turning 65 this year, Matus said the labor
force participation rate won’t rebound to peak levels, so the
jobless rate might fall faster than expected.  The participation rate declined 0.1 percentage point in
January to 64.2 percent, the lowest since March 1984, the Labor
Department reported last week. The number peaked at 67.3 percent
in 2000. Employers added 36,000 workers, short of the 146,000
median gain projected in a Bloomberg News surveyed of
economists, as winter storms deterred hiring.  Participation Downtrend  Structural changes caused by the aging demographic account
for about half of the downtrend in the participation rate, said
Matus, who is based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Following last week’s employment report, UBS economists,
including Matus, lowered their year-end jobless rate forecasts
for 2011 and 2012 by 0.2 percentage point to 8.8 percent and 8.6
percent, respectively.  “Continued healthy gains in household employment coupled
with our expectation that the labor force participation rate is
unlikely to move sharply higher suggests a lower  unemployment
rate  path,” they wrote in a Feb. 4 research note.  Unemployment will fall to 9.3 percent by the end of this
year and 8.5 percent in 2012, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  People born between 1946 and 1964 make up 25.8 percent of
the population, or 79.2 million people, according to data from
the U.S. Census Bureau. Nearing retirement, that generation’s
“attachment to the workforce becomes less and less,” Matus
said.  ‘Giant Percentage’  “When you take a giant percentage of the population and
you move them from one bucket where there’s a very high
participation rate into a lower participation rate bucket, the
population shifting is causing movements in the participation
rate,” Matus said.  While some people believe workforce participation should
rise because baby boomers must keep working into old age after
the recession from 2007 to 2009 wiped out their retirement,
Matus said boomers have saved enough.  “The net worth of this generation approaching the age of
65 is higher than the generation previous, their parents, and
that tells me  life expectancy  has increased a little bit and
there’s probably some desire to keep working more, but is there
a need?” Matus said. “I can’t find evidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net 
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  