-- Aircell Raises $35 Million as In-Flight Wi-Fi Provider Prepares for an IPO
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2011-02-07T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/aircell-raises-35-million-as-in-flight-web-provider-weighs-ipo.html
Aircell LLC , the largest provider of  Internet service  on airplanes, raised $35 million to help
bolster its network and sign up more customers ahead of a likely
initial public offering.  The funding, from current investors Ripplewood Holdings LLC
and entities related to Oakleigh Thorne, brings Aircell’s total
capital raised to almost $600 million, Chief Executive Officer
Michael Small said in an interview.  With Wi-Fi installations in almost 1,300 airplanes, Aircell
controls about 80 percent of the in-flight broadband market,
according to research firm In-Stat. Surging sales of smartphones
and tablet computers such as  Apple Inc .’s iPad are boosting
demand and may help the market almost triple this year to $262
million, In-Stat predicts. In the next year, Aircell plans to
introduce an e-commerce service and have a powerful enough
network to handle video, Small said.  “We’re the Internet in the sky, and everything you do on
the Internet on the ground people want to do on the plane,”
said Small, 53, who joined Aircell as CEO last year after a 29-
year career in the communications industry. “The biggest
challenge is to meet the demands for the service.”  Aircell, based in the Chicago suburb of Itasca,  Illinois ,
was founded 20 years ago to provide a way for passengers to make
affordable calls from an airplane. The company gained the
ability to provide Wi-Fi five years ago, when it spent $31.3
million in the U.S. Federal Communications Commission’s air-to-
ground spectrum auction.  Gogo Service  Aircell introduced the service in 2008, when  AMR Corp .’s  American Airlines  became the first customer. Under the Gogo
brand, the company’s in-flight Wi-Fi has signed on seven
additional airlines.  Delta Air Lines Inc . is the biggest
customer, with more than 500 installations.  The $35 million investment should be the last round of
funding before selling shares to the public, Small said. While
there’s no time frame for an offering, the company is big enough
and has enough growth potential to be a “legitimate IPO
candidate,” he said.  Gogo’s service costs $4.95, $9.95 or $12.95, depending on
the length of the flight, and monthly subscriptions can be
purchased for $34.95. Delta said in November that it will add
the service to 223 regional aircraft this year, meaning 80
percent of its domestic fleet will have Wi-Fi available.  Convincing Customers  Aircell’s success depends on its ability to get customers
to pay for a service that they get for free elsewhere, said Amy
Cravens, an analyst covering the Wi-Fi market at  In-Stat  in
Scottsdale,  Arizona .  Starbucks Corp . and  Panera Bread Co . are
among cafe chains that offer free Wi-Fi, and many airports and
hotels now provide complimentary Internet service.  “People are so used to getting free Wi-Fi in Starbucks and
other places,” Cravens said. “Even though it’s a different
proposition, it’s kind of hard to explain that to the
passenger.”  While Aircell controls more than three-quarters of the
market, it does face some competition from Row 44 Inc., based in  Westlake Village , California, and Japan’s  Panasonic Corp .  The biggest challenge, according to Small, is creating a
powerful enough network to handle a deluge of demand during peak
travel periods. During the holiday season, Google Inc. sponsored
a promotion for free Wi-Fi on Delta, AirTran Holdings Inc. and
Virgin America Inc. flights. The promotion attracted more than 2
million users, Small said.  “It stressed our network every which way and we had to do
a lot to manage the traffic,” Small said. “That the consumers
want it is a nonissue, and that we have high-quality service is
a nonissue. We just have to make sure that we meet the capacity
needs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  