-- Airline Losses May Top $600 Million on Record U.S. Cancellations
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2011-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/airline-losses-may-top-600-million-on-record-u-s-cancellations.html
Airlines may be headed for more than
$600 million in weather-related losses as U.S. winter storms
trigger the most flight cancellations since the government began
tracking the data in 1987.  Almost 20,000 flights were scrubbed last week alone as snow
blanketed U.S. airports such as  Chicago ’s O’Hare, a hub for  United Continental Holdings Inc . and  American Airlines ,
according to researchers FlightStats and FlightAware.com. Since
Nov. 1, the total is 89,884, the firms’ tallies show.  That would push carriers’ net revenue loss to about $629
million, based on the average estimate of $7,000 for each
scrapped flight from Vaughn Cordle of  AirlineForecasts LLC ,
which builds financial models for investors. His projection
factors in lost fare revenue plus fuel and labor savings.  “If this keeps up, it will really get ugly,” said Daniel Kasper, an airline economist with LECG LLC in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “It’s already brutal and it’s only the first
week in February.”  The industry already was under increasing financial strain
even without the snarls from snow and ice, with an 8.8 percent
increase this year for jet fuel, one of the largest expenses for
airlines.    Delta Air Lines Inc . is alone so far in quantifying first-
quarter weather fallout, saying Jan. 18 it would have a $30
million net reduction in revenue from scrapping 4,000 flights at
its hometown hub in Atlanta last month. That’s about $7,500 a
flight.  ‘Talking About Snow’  “I can’t believe I’m talking about snow again,” Chief
Executive Officer Richard Anderson told employees in a Feb. 3
message. “When we’re seeing record or near-record snow across
the heartland and the Northeast, that definitely has an impact
on our operation and airline operations all over the U.S.”  Cancellations from Jan. 31 through Feb. 4 amounted to about
13 percent of the schedule for the five weekdays, according to
Houston-based  FlightAware.com . That came on top of cancellations
of 4 percent of all domestic trips since November, according to
 FlightView.com  in  Boston .  The previous worst season for cancellations occurred from
November 2000 through February 2001, when airlines failed to
operate 76,851 scheduled flights, or 3.93 percent, according to
data from the U.S.  Bureau of Transportation Statistics .  Last month’s total was the highest this winter, at 33,372
cancellations, according to  Portland , Oregon-based FlightStats.
Its count includes Canadian carriers at U.S. airports.  ‘Most Extreme’  “This year is the most extreme weather I’ve ever seen,”
said Henry Margusity of AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania , who has been a forecaster for 25 years. “The
storms have been widespread. New York has been hit four times,
and that backs up the whole system.”  Chicago’s O’Hare received about 20 inches (51 centimeters)
of snow last week as United Continental,  AMR Corp .’s American
and  Southwest Airlines Co . scrapped most flights in the city.
Days earlier, a winter storm dumped 19 inches on New York, which
also endured thousands of flight cuts from the shutdown of its
three major airports for parts of Dec. 26-27.  Fourth-quarter passenger revenue fell by about $25 million
at United Continental because of December storms,  JetBlue
Airways Corp . reported a $30 million impact and Delta said bad
weather in the U.S. and  Europe  cut profit by $45 million.  While grounding a flight erases some costs, the savings and
rebooked fares won’t offset all of the lost revenue because some
travelers will abandon their trips. Consultant Cordle, who is
based in Clifton,  Virginia , assumes that 70 percent to 90
percent of fliers change their travel dates instead of seeking
refunds, so airlines keep most of the revenue on their books.  Softest Quarter  “It’s a negative, there’s no question about it,” Herb Kelleher, Southwest chairman emeritus and former CEO, said in an
interview. “And the first quarter of each year is the softest
quarter for the  airline industry . That means the impact is felt
even more.”  Carriers will need every dollar as they face mounting
bills, with jet fuel for immediate delivery in  New York  Harbor
closing on Feb. 4 at $2.79 a gallon. It reached $2.85 a gallon
on Feb. 2, when the International Air Transport Association
trade group said global airline profits were at risk from rising
prices for crude oil, from which jet fuel is refined.  The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index slumped 5.2 percent this
year through Feb. 4 and posted a third straight monthly decline
in January, the longest such streak in more than two years.  Quicker Calls  United, Delta and Fort Worth, Texas-based American, the
three largest U.S. airlines, are among the carriers making
quicker calls on flight cancellations and ticket waivers so
planes and passengers don’t pile up at socked-in airports,
adding to costs and sowing ill will among travelers.  “The worst thing you can do is have people show up and
have nothing for them,” said  Robert Mann , president of aviation
consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in  Port Washington , New York.  Also driving cancellation decisions is the threat of fines
of as much as $27,500 a passenger, under new federal rules that
prohibit tarmac waiting times of more than three hours, Cordle
said. BTS data showed a 25 percent increase in canceled flights
in the first 11 months of 2010 from a year earlier.  “There’s no doubt about it that they are canceling more,
and they should be,” said Cordle, who retired from Chicago-
based United after more than 20 years of flying. “It’s more
efficient to just cancel flights and rebook people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  