-- Allen Stanford Receiver Sues PGA Tour, Seeking to Recoup $13 Million
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2011-02-08T00:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/allen-stanford-receiver-sues-pga-tour-seeking-to-recoup-13-million.html
PGA Tour Inc. , the organizing body
for professional golfers’ U.S. tournaments, was sued by indicted
financier R. Allen Stanford’s court-appointed receiver and a
group of his investors, seeking to recoup almost $13 million.  Ralph Janvey, the receiver, and the court-sanctioned
investors’ committee said in a complaint filed today in federal
court in  Dallas  that the PGA Tour received tainted money
generated by an alleged $7 billion fraud scheme led by Stanford.  Stanford has repeatedly denied civil and criminal
allegations that he sold certificates of deposit through
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd. by misleading
speculators about the nature of the CDs and their regulatory
oversight.  “PGA did not provide reasonably equivalent value for the
transfers of CD proceeds to it and cannot establish that it is a
good faith transferee,” Janvey and the committee said in
today’s filing.  James Cramer, a spokesman for the  Ponte Vedra Beach ,
Florida-based PGA Tour, declined to comment.  This is the third golf-related lawsuit filed by the
Stanford receivership this year as he and the committee seek to
marshal assets to repay all of Stanford’s allegedly injured
investors equally.  Toms, Singh  Professional player David Toms last month was targeted in a
lawsuit seeking to recoup more than $900,000 he allegedly earned
in CD profits. Days later, IMG Worldwide Inc., a management
company for golfer Vijay Singh, was sued for $10.5 million that
Janvey said was paid to it in sponsorship fees and expenses.  The receivership also sued the National Basketball
Association’s Miami Heat franchise, seeking $1.3 million related
to Stanford’s sponsorships, advertising and promotions.  The case is Ralph Janvey v.  PGA Tour  Inc., 11-cv-00226,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank Ltd., 09cv298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The criminal case is U.S.
v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 