-- AOL to Buy Huffington Post for $315 Million to Rekindle Ad-Revenue Growth
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y   a n d   Y o u n g - S a m   C h o
-- 2011-02-07T21:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/aol-to-buy-huffington-post-for-315-million-founder-keeps-role.html
  AOL Inc . agreed to buy the  Huffington
Post  for $315 million as the  Internet company  spun off from  Time
Warner Inc . increases its investments in online content to help
revive growth in advertising revenue.  The offer includes about $300 million in cash and the deal
will likely be completed late in the first quarter or early in
the second, New York-based AOL said in a statement today. Co-
founder Arianna Huffington, 60, will become president and
editor-in-chief of the Huffington Post Media Group, which will
include all Huffington Post and AOL content.  AOL, led by Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong , acquired
the TechCrunch blog and 5Min Media last year, investing in
specialized websites and production of original video content to
generate  Internet traffic  and attract advertising revenue. The
number of unique visitors at closely held Huffington Post, which
aggregates articles and publishes its own content, has grown to
about 25 million a month since its debut in 2005.  “With this acquisition, Tim Armstrong is well on his way
to transforming AOL into an online editorial-based content
company,” Shahid Khan, chairman and chief strategist at
MediaMorph Inc., a New York-based digital media-tracking
service, said in an interview. “HuffPost gives AOL a very
compelling, affluent, educated young audience. It further
strengthens AOL’s overall editorial abilities with Arianna in
charge.”  AOL declined 75 cents, or 3.4 percent, to $21.19 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
declined 11 percent this year.  Huffington + TechCrunch  AOL is struggling with declining revenue in both its
advertising and Internet-access subscription businesses. The
company this month reported fourth-quarter revenue fell 26
percent to $596 million, with advertising sales dropping 29
percent to $331.6 million.    Huffington Post  had revenue of about $30 million last year
and has been aiming to triple that to $100 million in 2012, a
person familiar with the company’s plans said in December. The
company posted its first annual profit in 2010, Huffington, a
Greek-born, Cambridge-educated author and political commentator,
said in a conference call to announce the deal to investors.  The combination will create a group with about 270 million
unique visitors a month worldwide and 117 million in the U.S.,
according to the statement. Huffington Post material will be
integrated with AOL content, including Engadget,  TechCrunch ,
Moviefone and MapQuest, according to the statement.  “Huffington Post brings another level of ability for us to
serve brand marketers,” said Armstrong on the conference call.
He said marketers contacted in recent hours are “very
interested in this combination.”  Equity in AOL  The $300 million in cash will be divided among the
Huffington Post’s owners, which included Huffington and her co-
founder, New York-based angel investor Ken Lerer, and  venture
capital  investors. Employees of Huffington Post will receive $15
million in AOL stock in exchange for their unvested Huffington
Post options, AOL Chief Financial Officer Arthur Minson said on
the call.  Huffington Post had raised about $35 million in venture
capital from firms including Greycroft Partners LLC, founded by
Alan Patricof. Most of the last round of $25 million, led by  Oak
Investment Partners , remained in the bank in December,
Huffington said in an interview at that time.  She said she and Lerer together raised an initial $2
million to start the company. The company declined to say how
much of its equity is controlled by Huffington.  ‘Moved Quickly’  The purchase price is above the historical average for
similar deals. Web portals, such as the Huffington Post and
companies like social networking site Facebook Inc., have been
valued at about 1.5 times their revenue, according to the median
of a dozen deals tracked by Bloomberg in the past two years.  AOL’s Armstrong requested a meeting with  Arianna Huffington 
this year and made the offer to buy the website at a lunch at
her place, according to  a blog posting  by Huffington today.  “Things moved quickly” and the deal was signed at the  Super Bowl  at the  Cowboys Stadium  in Arlington,  Texas ,
yesterday, she said.  The Huffington Post site has benefited as newspapers and
magazines lose readers and advertisers to the more interactive
experience of Web services. While the site’s number of visitors
trail behind those of the New York Times, it exceeds those of
online-based rivals such as the Daily Beast and the Drudge
Report, according to estimates at  ComScore Inc .  The site has boosted traffic by encouraging readers to
weigh in on stories and contribute their own views.  “People don’t want just to consume news,” Huffington said
in an interview at her  New York  City headquarters in December.
“They want to share it, they want to advance it, and add to
it.”  (AOL held call today to discuss the deal. To hear replays
of the call, dial 888-286-8010 in the U.S. and  Canada , or 617-
801-6888 internationally, and use replay code 90388239.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  