-- Art Entrepreneur Adorns New Paris Space With Borrowed Works
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2011-02-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/art-entrepreneur-adorns-paris-space-with-borrowed-works-jorg-von-uthmann.html
Call it chutzpah or audacity: To open
a museum in Paris, a city crammed with art institutions, takes
nerve, particularly when you don’t have a collection.  Like Blanche DuBois in “A Streetcar Named Desire,” Marc Restellini has always depended on the kindness of strangers --
and his own business acumen.  In 2007, he launched the  Pinacotheque de Paris , an
exhibition space near the Eglise de la Madeleine. Privately
funded and unashamedly commercial, it was greeted with icy
hostility by the city’s art establishment.  Still, it worked.  Even if you don’t buy the numbers cited by Pinacotheque
press agents, the success of its shows -- the last, “The Gold
of the Incas,” has just closed -- is undeniable.  Restellini has opened a new space, 3,000 square meters on
two levels, across the street. The title of the first exhibition
says it all: You’re invited to witness “The Birth of a
Museum.”  What you find is three different shows: The first, some 100
paintings, comes from the  Hermitage  in St. Petersburg; the
second, about half the size, is from the  Budapest Museum of Fine
Arts ; the third is described as “the permanent collection of
the Pinacotheque.”  How did the resourceful Restellini produce a permanent
collection out of thin air? He didn’t.  Private Loans  On closer inspection, you discover that the 100 or so
paintings, with a couple of ancestor figures from Borneo thrown
in, belong to 40 private collectors and are on loan for periods
running from 1 to 10 years.  The diversity of subjects and styles is wide. A portrait by
Van Dyck hangs next to a landscape by Corot, a “Roman Beauty”
by the academic painter William Bouguereau (1825-1905) jostles a
Surrealist scene by Max Ernst (1891-1976).  Restellini defends the jumble by recalling the
“Wunderkammern,” the chaotic collections of kings and princes
that preceded our museums before they fell into the hands of
nitpicking art historians and curators. To turn the clock back,
he says, promises to be a “unique experience.”  If you don’t concur, you can always savor the loans from  St. Petersburg  and Budapest.  The hanging here is also unconventional: Instead of being
grouped together by country of origin or school, the Hermitage
paintings are presented in the order of their acquisition by the
czars -- from Peter the Great (1672-1725) to Nicholas I (1796-
1855) -- which makes for some strange bedfellows.  Not all of the canvases are masterpieces. Yet there are
enough that merit attention: Rembrandt’s “David and Jonathan,”
Velazquez’s portrait of the Conde-Duque de Olivares or the
daughters of the mad Czar Paul painted by Elisabeth Vigee-
Lebrun, to mention but a few.  The loans from Budapest also include worthwhile pieces --
not least Raphael’s “Esterhazy Madonna,” named after Prince
Nicholas II Esterhazy (1765-1833), whose huge collection later
became the nucleus of the museum.  The new wing of the Pinacotheque de Paris is at 8 Rue
Vignon. “La Naissance du Musee” runs through May 29.
Information:  http://www.pinacotheque.com  or +33-1-4268-0201.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 