-- Stocks Climb on Takeovers, Faster Global Growth as U.S. Treasuries Retreat
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2011-02-07T21:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/asian-stocks-oil-rise-on-u-s-growth-outlook-japan-korea-bonds-decline.html
Stocks climbed, driving benchmark
U.S. and European indexes to at least 2 1/2-year highs, as
takeovers, faster global growth and reduced tension in Egypt
boosted investor optimism in the economy. Ten-year Treasuries
fell, while  Egypt ’s bonds rose and its currency weakened.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent to
1,319.05 at 4 p.m. in New York and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
gained 1 percent. The 10-year Treasury yield climbed for a sixth
day, up one basis points at 3.65 percent. Egypt’s 2020 bond
yield sank 37 basis points to an eight-day low of 6.22 percent
and the currency slumped 1.6 percent to a six-year low versus
the dollar. Copper reversed gains after touching a record.  Beckman Coulter Inc. and Pride International Inc. jumped
more than 9.9 percent after receiving takeover bids, two of 30
U.S. deals announced today worth a total of $16 billion. About
two-thirds of  MSCI World  Index companies that reported quarterly
earnings have topped estimates. India predicted its economy will
expand the most in three years and Indonesia grew at the fastest
pace in six years. Investor sentiment also improved as Egypt’s
politicians took steps to resolve the crisis.  “More and more people and companies see the economic
recovery as sustainable,” said Joseph Veranth, chief investment
officer at Dana Investment Advisors in Brookfield, Wisconsin,
which manages $2.8 billion. “It’s no surprise that there are so
many M&A deals going on. Earnings have been good and that’s
indication that companies will have more cash” to fund deals.  Dow’s 6-Day Rally  The  S&P 500  rose for a third day and the Dow climbed for a
sixth, its longest streak since November. The Nasdaq-100 Index,
a gauge of the largest 100 companies listed on the electronic
exchange, rose 0.5 percent to its highest level since February
2001. The Russell 2000 Index of smaller U.S. companies closed at
its highest level since October 2007.  American Express Co., Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. climbed at least 2 percent to lead the Dow’s gains
today. Reports this week may show  consumer confidence  improved
and claims for jobless benefits fell, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  About four stocks rose for every one that fell in  Europe ’s
Stoxx 600. Basic-resources stocks led the rally, as Rio Tinto
Group gained 2.9 percent and Xstrata Plc added 3.6 percent in  London . Solarworld AG jumped 6.7 percent in Frankfurt after the
German solar-cell manufacturer said earnings increased.  “The outlook for the equity market is good,” said  Mike Lenhoff , chief strategist in London at Brewin Dolphin Securities
Ltd., whose parent company oversees $33 billion. “The momentum
behind the  U.S. economy  is clearly improving.”  Treasuries Slump  The six-day decline in the 10-year Treasury note is the
longest losing streak since Oct. 27. The yield on the U.K. two-
year gilt climbed four basis points to 1.55 percent.  The cost of insuring against a default on European  junk
bonds  fell, with the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-
default swaps declining 9.3 basis points to a midprice of 392.5
at 4 p.m. in New York. The cost of insuring U.S. corporate bonds
also decreased, with the Markit CDX North America Investment
Grade Index falling a sixth day to a mid-price of 79.9 points.  Egypt’s stock exchange will remain closed until Feb. 13,
the bourse said today. Vice President  Omar Suleiman , who met
with some opposition leaders yesterday, promised a draft list
within a month of constitutional changes needed for free
elections.  Egyptian Shares    Orascom Construction Industries , the country’s biggest
publicly traded builder, rose 4 percent in London, extending
gains since Egypt’s equity market closed on Jan. 27 to 12
percent.  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE  surged 5.5
percent in London.  The government sold 13 billion Egyptian pounds ($2.2
billion) of the total 15 billion pounds offered of 91-day, 182-
day and 273-day bills, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  MSCI China  Index of mostly Hong Kong-traded Chinese
shares dropped 1.8 percent on concern policy makers will act
further to cool property prices. The market was closed for the
previous two sessions for the Lunar New Year holiday.  India’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
climbed 0.2 percent. The government said its $1.3 trillion
economy will probably expand 8.6 percent in the year ending
March 31 from a year earlier.  Indonesia ’s gross domestic product
increased 6.9 percent in the three months through December from
a year earlier, a government report today showed. The  Jakarta
Composite Index  fell 0.2 percent, after earlier gaining as much
as 0.7 percent.  Hungarian Stocks Rally  Hungary’s benchmark BUX Index rallied 1.2 percent after
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  indicated his government may take a
more conciliatory stance in its wrangle with the central bank on
monetary policy.  Wheat for March delivery climbed as much as 1.8 percent in
Chicago after Egypt, the world’s largest importer of the grain,
boosted its budget for purchases and bought 170,000 metric tons
of U.S. exports of the grain. Copper slipped after climbing to
an all-time high of $4.6375 a pound in  New York  amid concern
demand will decline in  China , the world’s biggest metal buyer.  Oil declined for a third day on skepticism that a
rebounding U.S. economy will reduce surplus inventories in the
world’s biggest oil-consuming country. Crude for March delivery
slipped 1.7 percent to $87.48 a barrel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 