-- WikiLeaks' Assange Faces Secret Rape Trial if Sent to Sweden, Lawyer Says
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2011-02-07T18:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/assange-lawyer-tells-u-k-court-swedish-prosecutor-abusing-power.html
WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange may
be unfairly tried in secret in  Sweden  if extradited from Britain
to face questioning over sexual-assault allegations, his lawyer
told a U.K. judge.  Assange’s right to “open justice” will be breached if he
is subjected to a closed trial in Sweden -- typical for rape
cases in the country -- his lawyer, Geoffrey Robertson, told a
judge in London today. He said there had been a “media
campaign” against Assange in Sweden.  “It is likely that he will be tried secretly in Sweden,
behind closed doors,” Robertson said. “You cannot have a fair
trial when the press and public are excluded from the court, and
the Swedish custom is to exclude them.”  The alleged sexual misconduct, which two Swedish women
claim took place in August, was revealed as WikiLeaks drew
condemnation for posting thousands of classified U.S. military
and diplomatic communications. Assange’s lawyers are fighting
the extradition and claim the case may be politically motivated.  “A process like this surely helps you understand who your
friends are,” Assange said outside court after the hearing. The
39-year-old Australian said he had been “condemned for the last
five-and-a-half months” by the allegations and that he would
eventually be exonerated.  Goran Rudling, a Swede who campaigns to strengthen Sweden’s
rape laws, testified at the hearing on behalf of Assange, saying
he discovered one of the victims made complimentary comments
about Assange on her Twitter Inc. account after the alleged
attack and then deleted them after she went to the police.  Secret Documents  WikiLeaks, which has two servers housed in a mountain
cavity in  Stockholm , is an organization that publishes secret
government and corporate documents online. Prosecutors say the
rape case has nothing to do with the website’s activities.  Robertson also said the rape claim wouldn’t have qualified
as rape in other European countries. In court papers, Robertson
said Assange can only be extradited if the alleged acts are also
illegal in the U.K.  “What is in Swedish law ‘minor rape’ does not amount to
rape in any other European country,” Robertson said. “The
charge does not meet the European law standard concept of
rape.”  U.K. prosecutors, who are arguing on behalf of Sweden, told
the judge today Swedish prosecutor Marianne Ny, who issued the
arrest warrant for Assange, was within her authority, rejecting
one of Robertson’s defenses. The warrant prompted Assange to
turn himself in to  London  police in December.  ‘A Direct Challenge’  “Some of the arguments presented by Mr. Assange represent
a direct challenge to the reliability and fairness of
proceedings,” U.K. prosecutor  Clare Montgomery  said at the
hearing. The Swedish prosecutor “has the power to issue a
warrant,” she said.  District Judge Howard Riddle at Woolwich Crown Court may
give his decision as soon as tomorrow. Ny started her
investigation on Sept. 1, after another prosecutor dropped the
rape charge and reduced the molestation charges.  Brita Sundberg-Weitman , a retired Swedish judge who is now
an academic, said in testimony at today’s hearing that the legal
process in the Assange case in Sweden has been “extremely
peculiar.”  The atmosphere in Sweden toward Assange is “rather
hostile,” Sundberg-Weitman said. “Most people take it for
granted that he has raped two women,” she said of Assange.  ‘Biased’ Against Men  The former judge also said Ny, the Swedish prosecutor, is
“biased” against men in cases involving sexual offenses.  “She is so preoccupied with battered women and raped women
that she has lost balance,” Sundberg-Weitman said.  Karin Rosander, a spokeswoman at the  Swedish Prosecutor’s
Office , declined to comment on Assange’s case specifically or
claims that Ny is biased. She said it is common practice in
Sweden for trials involving children or sexual misconduct to be
held behind closed doors.  “It’s not in the law that this must be so, but up to the
court to decide in each individual case,” she said by
telephone.  The  U.K. prosecutor , Montgomery, also challenged claims by
Assange’s lawyers that the arrest warrant had been misused
because Swedish prosecutors hadn’t yet decided to charge him.
Assange’s lawyers argued the warrants aren’t supposed to be used
for questioning alone.  Interrogation “is a necessary next step in the Swedish
process,” Montgomery said. “It does not undermine or deny the
stated purpose of the warrant -- that it is for prosecution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 