-- Australian Retail Sales Rise Less-Than-Forecast 0.2%
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2011-02-07T02:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/australian-retail-sales-rise-less-than-forecast-0-2-weakening-currency.html
Australian retail sales rose less
than economists expected in December, sending the currency lower
as consumers spent less at department stores and more on
clothing and footwear.  Sales advanced 0.2 percent over the period incorporating
Christmas, after a revised 0.4 percent gain in November, the
Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. That was less than
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists
for a 0.5 percent increase.    Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens has paused
raising  interest rates  for the past two meetings after boosting
borrowing costs seven times from October 2009 to November 2010,
increases that spurred the local dollar to parity with the U.S.
currency.  Myer Holdings Ltd ., Australia’s largest department
store chain, cut its 2011 profit forecast today, even as energy
and mining investments keep unemployment near 5 percent.  “Higher market interest rates likely were the main reason
consumers tightened their purse strings,”  Helen Kevans , an
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney, wrote in a research
report after the release. “The rise in market interest rates
through what we believe is the ‘pain barrier’ for many
households, following the RBA’s most recent rate hike, also
dampened sales volumes.”  Dollar Weakens  The Australian dollar weakened immediately after the report,
before rebounding to trade at $1.0132 at 12:32 p.m. in Sydney.
The three biggest decliners on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index as
of 12:18 p.m. were retailers Myer, David Jones Ltd. and  Harvey
Norman Holdings Ltd   Today’s report showed spending on clothing and footwear
climbed 2.7 percent, and consumers spent 1.5 percent more on
household goods. They spent 1.2 percent less at department
stores, it showed.  Myer said today net profit after tax in the year ending
June 2011 will be as much as 5 percent less than a year earlier,
compared with a previous forecast for growth of between 5
percent and 10 percent.  “Sales across many categories were impacted by price
deflation as a result of increased discounting, as well as the
strong Australian dollar, which made purchasing overseas more
attractive,” Bernie Brookes, Myer’s chief executive officer,
said in a statement.  Today’s report showed retail sales, adjusted to remove
inflation, fell 0.3 percent in the three months through Dec. 31
from the previous quarter. That matched the median estimate of
economists.  Household Savings    Australia ’s economic growth slowed in the third quarter,
with gross domestic product increasing at a 0.2 percent
quarterly rate, the weakest pace since a contraction at the end
of 2008. Savings as a share of disposable income climbed to 10.2
percent from July through September from 8.9 percent three
months earlier.  “The household saving ratio is forecast to remain broadly
unchanged over the forecast period, after having increased
significantly since the mid 2000s,” the RBA said in a quarterly
policy statement released last week.  “The modest rate of increase in household indebtedness
suggests that household behavior remains cautious,” the RBA
said in the Feb. 4 report. “However, there are a few factors --
including the recovery in household net worth over the past 18
months and the improvement in the labor market -- that would
suggest that growth in household consumption is unlikely to
remain as low as over the past couple of years.”  A private report today showed Australian job advertisements
in newspapers and on the Internet rose in January.  Jobs advertised advanced 2.4 percent from December, when
they increased a revised 1.2 percent, according to an Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. report released in  Melbourne .  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  