-- Bloomberg Says Cuomo Budget Costs City $2.1 Billion
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2011-02-07T21:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/mayor-bloomberg-says-cuomo-s-state-budget-would-cost-city-2-1-billion.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  told
Albany lawmakers his city would lose about $2.1 billion and have
to waste money on state-required spending formulas if
legislators failed to change Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s proposed
budget.  The mayor’s analysis, which differed from that of Cuomo’s
budget office, calculated a $1.4 billion cut to education aid,
including about $800 million that Cuomo removed from former
Governor  David Paterson ’s November financial plan. State Budget
Director Robert Megna said the mayor’s view was “not
realistic.”  Bloomberg, 68, also said that Cuomo’s plan singles out the
city for a second straight year in denying it revenue-sharing
funds, or unrestricted grants to municipalities. Paterson took
the money from the city for this budget year and then allocated
about $300 million in his proposal for the state’s next fiscal
year, which starts April 1.  “It was a disgraceful gimmick last year when we were cut
100 percent, and our citizens are not going to let it become the
‘new normal’ in the state’s relationship with  New York  City,”
the mayor said in testimony today in the state capital of
Albany.  The city, for which the budget year begins July 1, would
also have to absorb $361 million in social-service cuts,
Bloomberg said.  City’s Deficit  The mayor, who endorsed Cuomo for governor last year,
projected a $2.4 billion deficit in his budget of about  $67
billion , not counting the state actions. Bloomberg intends to
present his budget Feb. 17. He has announced plans to eliminate
more than 10,000 of the city’s 300,000 workers, including about
6,000 through attrition.  Cuomo, a 53-year-old Democrat elected in November, this
month released a $132.9 billion budget that cuts local school
aid by 7.3 percent, or $1.5 billion, and Medicaid spending by
about $3 billion.  Megna also served Paterson and drafted the November
financial plan upon which Bloomberg said he relied. He rejected
the mayor’s testimony, saying he should only calculate next
year’s proposed aid amount in comparison with this year.  ‘Not Realistic’  “Given the fiscal situation facing the city, state and
nation, it was obviously not realistic to assume an increase,”
Megna said. The city’s lack of state revenue-sharing aid
shouldn’t be considered a loss because “there is no year-to-
year reduction regarding this money,” he said.  Education aid to  New York City  is cut $579 million on a
year-to-year basis, Megna said. While the city’s reduction in
school aid would equal 2.7 percent of its education budget, the
Cuomo budget cut education aid 2.9 percent statewide, he added.
“We believe teacher layoffs should not be necessary,” he said.  Bloomberg said that although he accepts the state’s need to
reduce spending to bridge a $10 billion gap, the governor and
Legislature could reduce the impact of cuts on the city by
letting him bargain with unions over new workers’ pension
benefits.  “The time has also come to return to the city the ability
to negotiate pensions as part of collective bargaining, just as
we do with wages and benefits,” the mayor said. “The public
says ‘spend less.’ But  Albany  forces us to ‘spend more.’”  State law will force the city to increase special-education
spending 13 percent next year, including about $100 million in
tuition to private schools for 4,000 students, he said.  “We can provide services to those students at a fraction
of that cost,” Bloomberg said. “Otherwise, we’re going to be
laying off teachers in our public schools” to make the tuition
payments, he said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 