-- Bangladesh Stocks Drop for Third Day Amidst Strike
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2011-02-07T09:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/bangladesh-stocks-drop-for-third-day-as-strike-hurts-confidence.html
  Bangladesh  stocks fell for a third
day, with the Dhaka Stock Exchange’s benchmark index closing at
its lowest level in more than two weeks, amid reports of a
nationwide strike by the main opposition party.  The DSE General Index dropped 4.8 percent to 6,394.53 as of
the 3 p.m. local time close in Dhaka, according to the
exchange’s website. The Bangladesh Nationalist Party called the
strike to protest rising food prices, a recent stock market
crash and the government’s plan for a new international airport
which had triggered violent protests by villagers at the planned
site,  Deutsche Presse-Agentur  reported today. Three calls to the
Bangladesh Police headquarters weren’t answered.  “Investor confidence is a bit low at the moment,” Asadul
Islam, managing director at Dhaka-based City Brokers Ltd., said
by phone.  Opposition activists clashed with police in the South Asian
nation’s capital Dhaka and other districts, the report said.  Bangladesh, which shares a 4,053-kilometer (2,519-mile)
border with  India , has had at least five military coups since
Indian troops helped it win independence from Pakistan in 1971.  The General Index, which rallied 83 percent in 2010 and 62
percent in 2009, has lost about 23 percent so far this year,
with trading being halted on at least two occasions, after the
nation’s central bank raised lenders’ cash reserve ratio to
limit their stock investments. Regulators later eased rules to
boost liquidity after the biggest market decline in five years
on Jan. 10. The slide led to violent clashes between investors
and authorities, the  Associated Press  had reported.  ‘Remains Attractive’  “Bangladesh still remains an attractive opportunity for
long-term investors because the economy is growing and
infrastructure creation is picking up,” City Brokers’ Islam
said.  Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, who came to office in
December 2008, is seeking to attract foreign companies and
investors to build  power plants  and other infrastructure needed
to drive growth in an economy about half the size of  Singapore .
Bangladesh’s economy is strengthening and likely to grow
“slightly above” 6 percent this fiscal year, the  International
Monetary Fund  said Dec. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 