-- Berkshire Wins Backing of Board at Munger's Wesco for $548 Million Buyout
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2011-02-07T13:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/berkshire-wins-backing-of-board-at-munger-s-wesco-for-548-million-buyout.html
Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc . won the backing of  Wesco Financial Corp .’s board to buy the
19.9 percent of stock it doesn’t own in the unit.  The deal values the stake at $547.6 million, Pasadena,
California-based Wesco said today in a statement. Wesco had
named board members Carolyn Carlburg, Robert Flaherty and
Elizabeth Caspers Peters to a “special committee of independent
directors” in September to review Berkshire’s bid.  Buffett, 80, is seeking to simplify Berkshire’s holdings as
he prepares the company for an eventual change of leadership.
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire has controlled Wesco for  more
than 25 years . Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive
officer, told Wesco in a letter that he wouldn’t proceed without
the approval of the firm’s independent directors.  Wesco has advanced more than 10-fold since the end of 1985
as Buffett and Berkshire Vice Chairman Charles Munger
transformed the company from a California lender into a unit
that stores steel, rents furniture and sells insurance to banks
and airlines. Munger is Wesco’s CEO.  Shareholders of Wesco can choose cash or Berkshire’s Class
B common stock, according to the statement. Wesco investors will
receive an amount equal to about $386.55 per share, which is the
company’s book value as of Jan. 31, according to the statement.
Investors will also get about 99 cents per share per month until
the effective date of the merger. Wesco closed at $380.67 on the
New York Stock Exchange Feb. 4.  Buffett needs a majority of the votes from investors other
than Berkshire at a special meeting of Wesco shareholders to
complete the transaction, the billionaire said in the letter.  ‘No Hard Feelings’  “We believe the price we are offering is fair, and
consequently have no interest in effecting a transaction at a
higher price,” Buffett said in the letter, published by Wesco
on Sept. 1. If shareholders reject the bid, “there will be no
hard feelings on our part. Wesco will continue as an 80.1
percent-owned subsidiary of Berkshire, and will operate as it
does presently.”  Greenhill & Co. is acting as financial adviser to Wesco’s
special committee and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
as legal adviser. Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP is serving as
Berkshire Hathaway’s transaction counsel.  ‘Business, Economics and Life’  Munger will host a question-and-answer session in  Pasadena 
if the deal is completed to provide Berkshire and former Wesco
shareholders a chance to ask him about “business, economics and
life,” according to the statement. The event would be on May 4,
if the deal is completed by then, and would replace Wesco’s
annual meeting, over which Munger presided in the past. If the
deal is rejected, Wesco would hold a 2011 annual meeting.  Buffett drew a Securities and Exchange Commission
investigation in 1975 tied to his investment in Wesco,  Alice Schroeder  said in her biography of the billionaire. Prior to
taking control of Wesco, Buffett helped convince Peters, whose
family founded the lender, to scuttle an agreement to merge with
Financial Corporation of  Santa Barbara , Schroeder said in “The
Snowball:  Warren Buffett  and the Business of Life.”  The investigation was concluded and a Berkshire subsidiary,
Blue Chip Stamps, neither admitted nor denied that it failed to
notify investors about its actions with regards to the Santa
Barbara deal, wrote Schroeder, now a columnist for Bloomberg
News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  