-- Bernanke Bets Commodities Won’t Fan Inflation Concern
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2011-02-07T10:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/bernanke-bet-inflation-won-t-increase-as-commodities-surge-wins-investors.html
Investors are betting with  Ben S. Bernanke  that surging food and energy prices won’t accelerate
U.S. inflation, allowing him to maintain easy money.  Their forecast shows in gauges of long-term price
expectations, including the difference between 10-year nominal
and inflation-indexed Treasury bonds, which fell to 2.36
percentage points Feb. 4 from 2.41 points Jan. 5. While pressure
from commodity costs may cause a spike this year to what Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s  Anthony Crescenzi  considers a
warning threshold of 2.75 points, the spread won’t persist there
or higher without strong job growth, Crescenzi said.  That means the Federal Reserve chairman probably won’t
raise benchmark  interest rates  from near zero in 2011 because of
higher consumer prices, Crescenzi predicted. So investors may
want to purchase two-year Treasury notes, which yielded 0.74
percent on Feb. 4 compared with 0.54 percent Jan. 28, or buy
Eurodollar contracts that expire within the year, he said.  “Headline inflation is beginning to have a greater
influence on monetary policy, but not yet at the Fed,” said
Crescenzi, who helps manage $1.2 trillion at Pimco in  Newport
Beach , California, as executive vice president. The central bank
“remains anchored or hinged to the core rate,” which excludes
food and energy costs.  The Fed “appears to be awaiting economic growth that is
stronger than 3.5 percent, a more significant decline in
unemployment and rising expectations for inflation,” Bob Doll,
chief equity strategist for fundamental equities in New York at
BlackRock Inc., said in a Jan. 31 note. “In our opinion, we are
still quite a bit away from such an environment.”  Breakeven Rate  Wan-Chong Kung, who helps oversee $198 billion at Nuveen
Asset Management in Minneapolis, said she’s skeptical actual
inflation will turn out to be as high as the 2.36 percentage-
point 10-year breakeven rate investors are pricing in.  “Breakevens are vulnerable to downward pressure based on
perhaps a reassessment of the more realistic prospects for
inflation in the United States,” said Kung, senior vice
president and portfolio manager. “The dominant driver” of  core
inflation  “will still be wage inflation.”  High U.S. unemployment will keep salaries in check,
limiting the biggest influence on broader prices, Crescenzi
said. Bernanke’s strategy of focusing monetary policy on the
core rate contrasts with European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet and Bank of  England  Governor  Mervyn King . They
are signaling growing discomfort with prices, prompting
investors to anticipate faster interest-rate increases in the
euro area and U.K.  Expand Stimulus  Bernanke and his colleagues on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  stuck to their plan to expand record monetary stimulus
by affirming on Jan. 26 their $600 billion in Treasuries
purchases through June. Their lack of alarm showed that day in
the FOMC statement, which acknowledged rising commodity prices
while stressing that longer-term inflation expectations were
stable, and “underlying inflation” was still on the decline.  Prices of corn, wheat, heating oil and cotton each have
gained more than 5 percent this year, spurred by demand in
emerging-market countries including  China  and by adverse weather
including bitter cold and severe snowstorms in Europe and  North
America .  The Fed’s most closely watched inflation gauge, the
Commerce Department’s core personal consumption expenditures
price index excluding food and energy, rose 0.7 percent in
December from a year earlier, the smallest advance since records
began in 1959.  ‘Highly Visible’  While prices of some “highly visible” items such as
gasoline have “significantly” increased recently, “overall
inflation remains quite low” and wage growth has slowed,
Bernanke said in a Feb. 3 speech at the  National Press Club  in
Washington. “These downward trends in wage and price inflation
are not surprising, given the substantial slack in the
economy.”  Average hourly earnings rose 1.7 percent last year, slowing
from 1.8 percent in 2009 and 3.4 percent in 2008, according to
the Labor Department. U.S. employers added 36,000 jobs in
January, the smallest gain in four months, while the jobless
rate fell to 9 percent from 9.4 percent as the number of people
without work and size of the  labor force  declined.  Unemployment has persisted at or above 9 percent since May
2009; the last such stall was from March 1982 to September 1983.
During that period, core inflation declined to 5.2 percent from
6.9 percent and was 3.7 percent at the end of 1985.  Fed policy makers forecast core inflation of 0.9 percent to
1.6 percent this year and overall inflation of 1.1 percent to
1.7 percent, based on November forecasts. Updated projections
from their Jan. 25-26 meeting will be released Feb. 16.  Republican Backlash  The Fed’s asset purchases sparked a backlash from top
Republican lawmakers and foreign officials, who said the program
would cause a dangerous increase in inflation. Investors broadly
don’t agree. A Fed gauge of market inflation expectations in the
five-year period starting in five years was 2.95 percentage
points on Feb. 2, compared with 3.14 points on Jan. 5.  So far there’s little pressure for salary gains at some
companies. “We don’t have any wage inflation at all,” David Farr, chief executive officer of  Emerson Electric Co ., a St.
Louis-based maker of data-center equipment and thermostats.,
said on a Feb. 1 conference call. Denver-based  Apartment
Investment & Management Co ., which owns or runs units serving
500,000 residents, sees a “gradual and halting recovery” in
the economy,” where “labor costs will be subdued,” Chief
Executive Officer Terry Considine said on a Feb. 4 call.  Buying Groceries  With unemployment so high in the U.S. and in the euro
region -- where the jobless rate was 10 percent in December --
households don’t feel confident enough to seek higher wages that
would spur demand for goods or require companies to raise their
own prices, said Karen Ward, a global economist in  London  at
HSBC Holdings Plc. That means workers will spend more of their
salaries filling up their gas tanks or buying groceries.  “By year-end, rising cost pressures are more likely to
have dampened activity than to have led to a persistent rise in
underlying inflation,” Ward, a former Bank of England
economist, said in a report last month. If central banks agree,
then “keeping policy accommodative is the right policy
response.”  While China is accused of increasingly exporting inflation,
it may not find a home in developed nations, said  Ethan Harris ,
head of developed-markets economic research at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in  New York . That’s partly because imports from
China account for only about 2 percent of gross domestic product
in the U.S. and euro area, he wrote in a Jan. 28 note.  ‘Small Impact’  “The pass-through of rising core and wage inflation in the
emerging markets is likely to have a small impact on developed-
world inflation,” Harris said.  Some investors are wary. The Fed “is looking at inflation
trending down; the rest of the markets are looking at inflation
starting to pick up a bit,” Michael Pond, co-head of interest-
rate strategy at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York, said Feb. 3
in a Bloomberg Radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene . While the Fed won’t start raising rates, it soon
may change its January view that underlying inflation is
“trending downward,” economists at Societe Generale SA said in
a Feb. 2 note to clients.  Weather Shocks  Central bankers who monitor core inflation do so because
food and energy tend to respond to shocks in weather or
geopolitical tensions, which are temporary and immune to
monetary policy. Officials who prefer to monitor headline prices
watch for repercussions as workers and companies seek
compensation for the higher costs.  The policy of ignoring commodity prices also has an
increasing “number of shortcomings” because the acceleration
in emerging-market growth and likelihood of global warming mean
such inflation may become more regular and persistent, said  Luigi Speranza , head of inflation and fiscal economics at BNP
Paribas SA in London.  Trichet and King may be less sanguine than Bernanke
because, unlike the Fed, they target headline inflation and have
no full-employment goal, said Laurent Bilke, global head of
inflation strategy at Nomura International Plc in London. The
euro and sterling have been rising against the dollar because
their central banks “seem much closer to monetary tightening
than is the Fed,” according to Beat Siegenthaler, a currency
strategist at UBS AG in Zurich. The pound is up about 3 percent
versus the dollar so far this year, and the euro is up 1.5
percent.  The U.K. five-year breakeven rate rose to 2.87 percentage
points on Feb. 2, the most since May last year. A similar
measure in Germany, the benchmark for euro-area debt, rose to
1.64 points, more than double its August level.  Above Target  While Trichet signaled on Feb. 3 that the ECB had no
immediate plans to raise its benchmark interest rate from 1
percent, the central bank forecasts inflation will stay above
its goal for most of this year. “Very close monitoring is
warranted,” he said in Frankfurt at a press conference.  European inflation accelerated to a 2.4 percent rate in
January, the fastest since October 2008, breaching the ECB’s
goal of just below 2 percent for a second consecutive month.
U.K. inflation rose to an eight-month high of 3.7 percent in
December from a year earlier, breaking the  Bank of England ’s 2
percent target for a 13th month.  Foreign inflation means “we may well have to respond” by
“keeping domestically generated inflation lower,” Bank of
England Deputy Governor Charles Bean said in the Feb. 2 edition
of the Western Mail newspaper. JPMorgan Chase & Co. said the
next day it now expects a rate increase in May rather than
August. Bank of England policy makers meet Feb. 10.  Bilke Predictions  “The commodity-price shock is perceived as different
here,” said Bilke, a former ECB forecaster. His predictions:
The Bank of England will lift its 0.5 percent key rate a quarter
point in August, and the ECB will raise its rate by the same
amount in September, while the Fed keeps the federal funds rate
close to zero until 2013.  The effects of commodity inflation in developed countries
will be more like a small wave than a tsunami, said Steven Bell,
chief economist at London-based hedge fund GLC Ltd. and a former
U.K. Treasury official. “I don’t see inflation as a big
issue,” with the possible exception of the U.K., he said. “I’m
in the ripple camp.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net 
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  