-- Bharti Plans Africa Tower Companies After $9.7 Billion Purchase
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2011-02-07T22:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/bharti-plans-africa-tower-companies-after-9-7-billion-purchase.html
  Bharti Airtel Ltd ., India’s biggest
mobile-phone operator, plans to create tower companies in each
of the 16 African countries where it operates following its $9.7
billion purchase of assets from  Kuwait ’s Zain.  Seven months after the transaction, Bharti is pushing
programs to turn around the operations it bought, working on
cutting costs -- through projects such as pooling tower assets
into a separate entity -- and boosting subscriptions.  “Our 100 percent focus is to get these 16 properties into
very good health,”  Manoj Kohli , Airtel  Africa  chief executive
officer said in an interview from Nairobi yesterday.  Profits and market shares at businesses Bharti bought from
Zain were declining, Kohli said. In the past two quarters the
slide has been arrested and the group had net additions of 2
million users for a total of 42 million at the end of December.
The plan to cap costs by separating and sharing the mobile-phone
towers mirrors a system Bharti has tested in  India .  Increased competition in Africa from established operators
and new entrants is making it “essential for all of them to cut
costs,” said Thecla Mbongue, an analyst with Informa Telecoms &
Media in Johannesburg. “Already we have had companies such as
Millicom, MTN and Vodacom do tower-sharing deals.”  For Bharti, sales from African operations rose 8.6 percent
to $911 million in the three months ended December, the New
Delhi-based company said. Minutes of use per user in rose 7
percent to 120, it said. The margin on earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization narrowed to 21 percent, from
24 percent previously, primarily on rebranding costs.  Infrastructure Costs  Bharti has two tower company programs in India, one a joint
venture with  Vodafone Group Plc . and  Idea Cellular Ltd . The
other is a subsidiary called Bharti Infratel Ltd., which has
about 30,000 towers in its portfolio.  “The objective is to optimize the infrastructure costs of
the entire industry and Bharti Airtel will lead it like it has
led it in India,” Kohli said. “It will probably lead to a much
lower cost structure, which is good for the industry and good
for the consumers to.”  The management of the tower companies within the operating
companies in Africa will be independent of Airtel’s consumer
business, he said. He declined to give more details on what the
plans were for the tower companies.  “Duplication of infrastructure is not good for the
consumer and not good for the company,” Kohli said. “It does
not benefit anyone and is quite wasteful.”  ‘Right Framework’  In India, tower companies “help infrastructure-sharing on
a very non-discriminatory way,” he said. The “management is
independent so that all customers of the tower company can come
and get the service very fairly,” he said. “That is the right
framework; these tower companies will be independent and have
independent management.”  Bharti is also driving down costs through automation across
the businesses. For example, consumers in  Nigeria , Airtel’s
largest market, can access a top-up service called Easy Recharge
by going to a retailer and receiving airtime electronically.  Retailers have airtime stored in their stores’ phones and
are able to send the minutes to the buyer through a short
message service, or sms, transaction. This eliminates the need
to print and distribute coupons and vouchers and cuts costs.  “We would like to have this across all African
countries,” where Bharti operates, Kohli said.  Airtel aims to have 100 million customers by the end of
March 2013, Kohli said. The group wants to have sales of $5
billion and Ebitda of $2 billion by that time, Kohli said.  For now, the company is “too busy” with what it has to
pursue other expansion, he said.  Editors: Vidya Root, Sara Marley  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicky Smith in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 