-- Big Lots Is Said to Explore Options, Including Sale
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2011-02-07T22:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/big-lots-is-said-to-explore-options-including-possible-sale-shares-jump.html
  Big Lots Inc ., the Columbus, Ohio-
based discount retailer, is exploring strategic options,
including a possible sale, and is working with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., said a person with knowledge of the situation.  The company may attract interest from private-equity firms,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
matter is private. The shares climbed $5.25, or 15 percent, to
$39.20 by 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading,
giving the chain a market value approaching $3 billion. The
stock earlier had underperformed peers.  Big Lots, led by Chief Executive Officer Steve Fishman,
operates about 1,400 stores across the U.S. The company’s
inventory consists of brand-name goods that have been returned,
discontinued or overproduced, allowing the retailer to purchase
and resell them at a discount.  “This company screens well as a candidate for a leveraged
buyout because it has quality earnings, a lack of debt, they
generate strong  cash flow , and the management is high quality,”  Joe Feldman , an analyst with Telsey Advisory Group LLC in New
York, said today in an interview.  Big Lots’s gain today was the largest since December 2009.
Before today, the shares had risen 14 percent over the past 12
months, less than half the increase of the Standard & Poor’s 500
GICS Consumer Discretionary Sector Index.  Larger Discounters  The chain vies for value-conscious customers with larger
discounters like Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Dollar General Corp.
Sales probably will approach $5 billion in the year ended in
January, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Executives at Big Lots didn’t immediately return phone
calls seeking comment.  The retailer’s sales growth has recovered alongside the  U.S. economy , with a 5 percent increase projected for this year,
more than twice the pace of 2010. Four states --  California ,  Texas ,  Ohio  and  Florida  -- accounted for more than one-third of
Big Lots’s revenue in the year ended January 2010. The retailer
is scheduled to report results for the fourth quarter on March
3.  Sol Shenk founded Big Lots’s predecessor, Consolidated
International Inc., more than 40 years ago, and opened the first
Odd Lots closeout chain in 1982. The retailer found success by
acquiring goods whose popularity had waned, like the Rubik’s
Cube puzzles, at a fraction of their original price and marking
them up on its own shelves, according to  Hoover’s Inc.   Since 2005, at least the top five retail apparel deals in
the U.S. have been done by private-equity firms, led by the $2.8
billion acquisition of Claire’s Stores Inc. by Apollo Global
Management LLC more than three years ago.  Last year, Jo-Ann Stores Inc. agreed to be acquired by an
affiliate of Leonard Green & Partners LP for $1.6 billion, and  Gymboree Corp ., a San Francisco-based children’s clothing
retailer, agreed to be bought by Bain Capital LLC for about $1.8
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  