-- Blackstone Buys Majority of Hotel Del Coronado
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2011-02-07T22:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/blackstone-buys-majority-of-hotel-del-coronado-after-debt-restructuring.html
  Blackstone Group LP  agreed to buy a
majority stake in  Strategic Hotels & Resorts Inc .’s Hotel del
Coronado to help restructure the debt on the Southern California
resort that was the backdrop of the film “Some Like it Hot.”  Strategic Hotels formed a joint venture with Blackstone
Real Estate Advisors and KSL Resorts, investing an undisclosed
amount of cash into the luxury hotel and converting a portion of
the existing debt into equity, Chicago-based Strategic said in a
statement today. Deutsche Bank AG provided $425 million in debt
financing. KKR & Co. sold its 41 percent stake in the hotel as
part of the transaction, according to Kristi Huller, a
spokeswoman for the New York-based firm.  The 670-room Hotel del Coronado, located on 28 acres of
oceanfront property near  San Diego , has hosted 11 U.S.
presidents and celebrities including  Marilyn Monroe , Madonna and  Brad Pitt , according to its website. The transaction values the
hotel at about $590 million, Strategic Hotels said. That is less
than the $745 million the company bought it for in 2005, said
Alan Reay, president at  Irvine , California-based Atlas
Hospitality Group.  “The San Diego market has started to rebound, and more
importantly, the luxury hotel sector has rebounded very
strongly,” Reay said in a telephone interview. “For Blackstone
this is an excellent investment. The Coronado is an
irreplaceable asset. It’s world famous. They are getting in at a
much lower price than what Strategic purchased it at.”  Luxury Rebound  Luxury hotels have shown the biggest increases during the
recovery of the last year, after being hurt more than their
cheaper competitors by the recession. Occupancy at high-end
hotels climbed to 66 percent in 2010 from 61 percent the prior
year, according to  Smith Travel Research Inc . That compares with
a 64 percent occupancy rate in 2010 for all hotels in the top 25
U.S. markets.  The Hotel del Coronado had a total loan balance of $630
million, according to Realpoint LLC. The debt was due to expire
in mid-February after receiving an extension last month.  Blackstone, which in December took ownership of 14 hotels
it sold to Columbia Sussex Corp. five years ago, will hold a 60
percent ownership interest and will become general manager.
Strategic, as asset manager, and KSL, as operator, will hold
34.3 percent and 5.7 percent stakes, respectively.  “We are very pleased by this outcome, as it provides the
opportunity for us to achieve attractive returns on our new
investment, significantly reduces the hotel’s indebtedness and
maintains our ownership in this iconic asset,” Strategic Chief
Executive Officer Laurence Geller said in the statement.  Strategic’s Fairmont Scottsdale Princess in  Arizona  and the
InterContinental Miami also have loans with maturities this
year, Strategic said in October.  Strategic shares climbed 39 cents, or 6.3 percent, to $6.59
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They
have more than tripled in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  