-- BOJ’s Shirakawa Says Japan Needs to Sustain Debt Credibility
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2011-02-07T07:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/boj-chief-shirakawa-says-japan-s-economy-starting-to-emerge-from-slowdown.html
  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said the government needs to work to maintain investor
trust in its debt, two weeks after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded
the nation’s sovereign credit rating.  Japan should make “every effort to maintain the confidence
shown by markets while working on mid- to long-term fiscal
consolidation,” Shirakawa said at a speech at the Foreign
Correspondents’ Club of Japan in Tokyo today. While investor
appetite for government debt has contained borrowing costs, “no
country can continue to run fiscal deficits forever,” he said.  S&P last month cut Japan’s debt rating to AA-, the fourth-
highest level, saying it expects the country’s government debt
ratios to continue to rise. The nation’s long-term yields,
around 1.3 percent, have helped the  government finance  a debt
burden approaching 200 percent of gross domestic product, the
largest in the industrialized world.  “Governor Shirakawa has repeated his warnings against
Japan’s ballooning public debt, and his comments on the issue is
becoming more clear after Japan’s rating was actually cut,”
said  Tatsushi Shikano , a senior economist at Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Co. in Tokyo.  Shirakawa said spurring inflation alone won’t be able to
alleviate Japan’s debt, which is in “very bad shape.” While
price increases could increase tax receipts, it will also add to
social security and other government spending burdens, he said.  Bond Pledge  S&P’s downgrade followed forecasts by the government
indicating Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  may need to abandon his
pledge to contain new bond sales due to a lack of revenue. The
central bank has lowered its benchmark interest rate close to
zero and purchased assets ranging from corporate bonds to
exchange-traded funds to spur growth and help Japan overcome
deflation.  Hidetoshi Kamezaki, a BOJ board member, last week said
financial markets have reacted calmly to the downgrade of
Japan’s debt. Even so, it’s necessary to bear in mind the risk
that financial markets could “suddenly” turn to be volatile on
concerns about sovereign debt even if there is no change in the
state of the economy or the　nation’s finances, Kamezaki added.  The yield on benchmark 10-year government debt reached 1.3
percent, the highest in almost nine months, after an unexpected
drop in the U.S. jobless rate drove up Treasury yields. Japan’s
bond yield have been underpinned by low interest rates and
domestic savings that have helped fuel  government spending .  Debt Projections  Japan’s  Finance Ministry  said the nation’s public debt will
probably swell to 997.7 trillion yen in the year starting April.
It projects debt sales may surpass 50 trillion yen in the period
starting April 2013 amid a growing revenue shortfall.  The governor also said the central bank’s purchases of
government debt aren’t intended to finance public spending. The
central bank purchases 1.8 trillion yen of  government bonds 
every month as well as in its asset purchase program.  “The BOJ wants to avoid giving the impression that it is
financing debt issuance with its bond purchases,” Shikano said.  Shirakawa also said the nation’s economy is recovering.
Gross domestic product growth will probably accelerate each
quarter of 2011 after contracting at a 1.9 percent annual rate
in the three months ended December, according to surveys of
economists by Bloomberg News. The Cabinet Office is scheduled to
release the fourth quarter GDP report on Feb. 14.  “Recent data suggest that Japan’s economy looks like it is
about to emerge from that pause,” Shirakawa said. “As far as
short-term economic and financial developments are concerned,
Japan’s situation is by no means worse than that of other
advanced economies.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  