-- Bolivia's Morales Seeks African Support for United Nations Water Proposals
-- B y   D r e w   H i n s h a w
-- 2011-02-07T06:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/bolivia-s-morales-seeks-african-support-for-united-nations-water-proposals.html
Bolivian President  Evo Morales  urged
African leader to back a proposed United Nations declaration
that would block the sale of public water services to private
companies.  “We are going to go the UN to declare that water is a basic
public need that must not be managed by private interests, but
should be for all people, including people of rural areas,”
Morales said yesterday at the 2011 World Social Forum in Dakar,
the Senegalese capital. The conference bills itself as a
gathering for “civil society organizations opposed to neo-
liberalism,” according to the program’s website.  Half of Africa’s rural population doesn’t have access to
clean drinking water, the UN estimates.  Morales also called for the nationalization of  Africa ’s
mineral and petroleum wealth, which he said would boost state
revenue, increase rural employment and reduce environmental
degradation.  “All of Africa’s resources should be declared resources of
the state and managed by the nation,” he said. “Our experience
in  Bolivia  shows that when you take control of natural resources
for the people of the town and village, major world change is
possible.”  Four of the twelve members of the Organization of the
Petrol Exporting Countries are in Africa, including  Nigeria ,
where rebels have staged attacks on oil-industry infrastructure
since 1992.  Former Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva and
French Socialist Party leader Martine Aubry are expected to
speak at the weeklong conference, according to the program’s
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Hinshaw in Dakar via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 