-- Brown Cleared Pushing of Al-Megrahi Release; U.K. Officials Helped Libya
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2011-02-07T17:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/brown-bp-cleared-of-lobbying-for-release-of-lockerbie-bomber-al-megrahi.html
Former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown ’s
government and  BP Plc  were cleared of lobbying Scottish
politicians to free Lockerbie bomber Abdel Basset Al-Megrahi in
a report that said U.K. officials helped  Libya  seek his release.  Al-Megrahi, the only man convicted of the bombing of Pan Am
Flight 103 over the town of Lockerbie in 1988, was freed in 2009
by the Scottish government on the grounds that he would die from
prostate cancer within months. He returned to his native Libya
to a hero’s welcome and is still alive.  “The former government took great effort not to
communicate to the Scottish government its underlying desire to
see Megrahi released before he died,” Cabinet Secretary Gus O’Donnell, the U.K.’s top civil servant, wrote in the report
published in London today. Brown’s administration “considered
that any attempts to pressurize or lobby the Scottish government
could be counterproductive to achieving this outcome.”  The release of Al-Megrahi under Scottish law on
compassionate grounds sparked outrage in the U.S. and
allegations the U.K. wanted him returned to Libya to bolster
trade with  Africa ’s third-largest oil producer. Brown, who lost
power in May elections, said at the time the rapprochement with
Libya was chiefly about fighting terrorism and not trade.  O’Donnell reviewed the paperwork in the case at the request
of Prime Minister  David Cameron , who succeeded Brown after
winning the May 2010 general election.  Libyan Lobbying  He found BP,  Europe ’s second-largest oil company,
successfully lobbied the government to get Al-Megrahi included
in a prisoner transfer agreement after the Libyans warned they
would pull out of deals if he were left out. In the end, the
agreement wasn’t used for Al-Megrahi.  O’Donnell concluded that while both the U.K. and BP wanted
Al-Megrahi sent home so that oil deals with Libya could go
ahead, neither put pressure on the Scottish government. There
was no contact on the matter between the U.K. government and
London-based BP after February 2008, he said.  “It’s clear to me that those who think there was some sort
of conspiracy cooked up between BP, the British government and
the Scots to release Megrahi, that is not right,” Cameron told
lawmakers in the House of Commons in  London  today. “It was a
Scottish decision by the Scottish government, in my view
mistaken,” Cameron said, adding that Brown’s government should
have set out its position at the time.  ‘Mass Murder’  Publicly, Brown’s government refused to say what its
position was on the release. Privately, it had decided to “do
all it could” to help the Libyans get Al-Megrahi home,
according to O’Donnell. It ratified the prisoner transfer
agreement, and explained the legal procedure for compassionate
release to the Libyans, the report said.  Cameron ordered the review in July last year. He was under
pressure from U.S. lawmakers who wanted to know whether BP’s
drilling program in Libya was related to the release. Cameron
said today there was no need to undertake a public inquiry.  Al-Megrahi “was convicted of the biggest mass murder in
British history and should have died in prison,” Cameron told
lawmakers. “The last government should have condemned (his
release) rather than going along with it.”  Scottish Decision  Al-Megrahi, now 58, was convicted in 2001 of the killing of
270 people in the terrorist attack. He was released on Aug. 20,
2009, by Scottish Justice Minister Kenny MacAskill.  Ministers in Brown’s government, including former Foreign
Secretary  David Miliband  and former Justice Secretary Jack Straw, have long maintained that while they wanted Al-Megrahi
released, they had no power to make it happen. He had been
convicted under Scots law and was held in a Scottish prison.  “There was no pressure from BP on the Scottish
government,” Straw told Cameron today in Parliament. “We acted
properly at all times. At no stage did we ever suggest to the
Scottish government what they should do.”  Scotland has always had a separate legal system to the rest
of the U.K. and has had its own government since 1999. Since
2007, the pro-independence  Scottish National Party , a rival to
Brown’s  Labour Party , has held power.  “They find it hard enough to communicate with each other
at the best of times,” Cameron said today.  The Scottish government said today the key factor that
emerges from the papers is how U.K. government policy changed in
the autumn of 2008 to favor the release of the Libyan.  Scotland 
also  issued documents  pertaining to the case to coincide with
the publication by the U.K. government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 