-- Thailand Clashes With Cambodia for Fourth Day Over Temple as Five Killed
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2011-02-07T16:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/cambodia-urges-un-action-after-accusing-thai-army-of-damaging-hindu-temple.html
  Thailand  and Cambodia clashed for a
fourth day along their disputed border, blaming each other for
initiating a conflict that has damaged an 11th century Hindu
temple and fueled protests in Bangkok.  Fighting erupted briefly today at the United Nations  World
Heritage site , Thai government spokesman  Panitan Wattanayagorn 
told the Thai PBS television station. Skirmishes starting Feb. 4
have killed at least five people, according to Thailand’s
government and Cambodian press  reports .  The Southeast Asian neighbors have prevented sporadic
clashes at the border since 2008 from escalating into a wider
conflict. The latest outbreak takes place as 2,500 nationalists
block a Bangkok street for a second week to demand Prime
Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  take tougher measures against what
they say are Cambodia’s attempts to claim Thai territory.  “Right now I’m 90 percent sure it will be contained and
the military will negotiate a lasting cease-fire,” Paul Quaglia,
director of PSA  Asia , a Bangkok-based security and risk
assessment consulting firm, said by telephone today. “The Thai
army is in pretty good contact with counterparts on the other
side.”  Thailand’s benchmark SET Index rose 0.1 percent today. The
gauge has gained 2.8 percent since nationalists started
protesting against Abhisit on Jan. 25, the second-best
performance among Asia’s 15 biggest markets after  Shanghai  in
local currency terms, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Limited Impact  “The fighting has mainly affected the sentiment of
domestic investors,” said Siripun Sutharoj, head of equity at
ING Funds (Thailand) Co. Ltd., which oversees about 120 billion
baht of assets. “Its impact on the overall economy and
corporate earnings is very limited. Still, we have to closely
monitor the situation.”  Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen in a  letter  dated
yesterday called on the UN Security Council to convene an urgent
meeting on the dispute. A wing of Preah Vihear temple has
collapsed as a result of Thai artillery bombardment,  Cambodia 
said in a statement yesterday, citing an unidentified military
commander based near the border.  Abhisit rejected attempts to involve the UN, and said
Cambodia was trying to “internationalize the issue.”  “These attacks were premeditated and well planned in
advance, notably with the use of military illuminating flares to
guide the opening shots, to create a situation which would serve
Cambodia’s political objective of internationalizing what is
essentially a bilateral issue while bilateral negotiations are
still ongoing,” Abhisit wrote, in a letter to the UN Security
Council dated today.  Civilians Evacuated  Thai army spokesman Sansern Kaewkamnerd said in a telephone
interview today that Cambodia started the fighting by firing
artillery shells, rockets and bullets across the border. About
15,000 Thai civilians have been evacuated from the area, Abhisit
said in the letter to the UN.  A Thai court in 2008 ordered the government to withdraw
support for Cambodia’s bid to list the disputed temple as a
World Heritage site.  The yellow-shirted protesters of the  People’s Alliance  for
Democracy, who backed Abhisit’s rise to power in 2008, are
demanding that Thailand drop out of the UN  World Heritage
Committee , cancel a 2000 agreement with Cambodia on border
negotiations and urge Cambodians to withdraw from disputed
border areas.  Cambodian Soldiers Killed  While the clashes give protesters momentum their aim of
ousting Abhisit is a “farcical hope,” Jacob Ramsay, a
Singapore-based senior analyst at  Control Risks Group , said by
phone. “It’s pretty much irrelevant who fired first, but the
fact that an exchange of fire did occur suggests there is some
actor here that is stirring things up needlessly.”  As many as 25 Thai soldiers were injured over the past two
days, Sansern told reporters today. The fighting has killed two
Cambodian soldiers and one civilian since Feb. 4, the Phnom Penh
Post  reported  today, citing unnamed army officials. A Thai
soldier and a civilian were also killed in the same time period,
Panitan said.  Thailand’s $264 billion economy is more than 26 times the
size of Cambodia’s. The Cambodian army spent $123 million in
2008, compared with $4.1 billion for the military in Thailand,
according to the  Stockholm International Peace Research
Institute .  Abhisit said yesterday that the army acted to protect the
country and wouldn’t invade Cambodia. He condemned the shelling
of civilians and called for a peaceful resolution of the dispute.  “We will solve the border issue with peaceful methods,”
he said. “This is the right way to benefit people and solve the
problems for the long term.”  In 1962, the  International Court of Justice  ruled in a 9-3
vote that Cambodia had sovereignty over Preah Vihear. The court
didn’t rule on the disputed land near the temple.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  