-- Chesapeake Energy to Raise $5 Billion Selling Fayetteville Shale Holdings
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2011-02-07T21:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/chesapeake-energy-to-sell-fayetteville-shale-assets-investments.html
  Chesapeake Energy Corp ., the most-
active U.S. natural-gas driller, intends to raise $5 billion
this year by selling its Fayetteville shale holdings and its
stake in two companies. It will use the money to cut debt.  The sale will include 487,000 net acres in the Arkansas
 shale field  that produce the equivalent of 415 million cubic
feet of gas daily, Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake said in a
statement today. The company also will sell its stake in closely
held service company Frac Tech Holdings LLC and in  Chaparral
Energy Inc .  Chesapeake said on Jan. 6 it planned to cut debt 25 percent
in two years by selling assets while increasing production 25
percent. The Fayetteville stake will be the largest of the
divestitures, worth as much as $4.6 billion based on other
recent sales in the formation, Michael Bodino, a Dallas-based
analyst for Global Hunter Securities said today in an interview.  Exxon Mobil Corp . paid $650 million cash in December for
Fayetteville operations of  Petrohawk Energy Corp .  “You’re seeing consolidation in all these plays moving to
larger companies,” said Bodino, who rates Chesapeake shares
“neutral” and owns none. “These plays are big logistical
challenges and the larger companies do a better job on the
logistics.”  Multiplying Transactions  BP Plc paid $1.9 billion for a 25 percent stake in
Chesapeake’s Fayetteville Shale operations in 2008, a month
after buying all of the company’s operations in the Woodford
Shale of Oklahoma’s Arkoma Basin for $1.75 billion.  Chevron
Corp . is buying  Atlas Energy Inc . to add acreage in the gas-rich
Marcellus Shale in the U.S. East. Exxon acquired XTO Energy
Inc., a shale-gas producer, for $34.8 billion in stock and debt
in June.    Cnooc Ltd .,  China ’s largest offshore energy producer, in
January agreed to pay $570 million in cash for a one-third stake
in Chesapeake’s Niobrara shale project in Colorado and  Wyoming .  “The three proposed asset sales announced today and the
Niobrara joint venture are all likely to be completed in the
first half of 2011,” Chief Executive Officer Aubrey McClendon
said in today’s statement. The company intends to buy back as
much as $3 billion of senior notes and cut bank borrowing.  The pretax proceeds from the new sales may exceed $5
billion, Chesapeake said. The company has about $14 billion of
debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Company Holdings  In addition to the Arkansas holdings, Chesapeake owns 26
percent of Frac Tech, a hydraulic-fracturing contractor that in
December filed for an initial public offering. Chesapeake also
owns 20 percent of Chaparral Energy, an  Oklahoma  City producer
that reported proved reserves equivalent to 149.3 million
barrels of oil from U.S. onshore fields as of Dec. 31. About 63
percent of those reserves are oil, which is more valuable than
gas at current prices.  A sale might be a catalyst for Chaparral to go public,
Bodino said, “because they’re kind of oily and the market likes
that right now.”  Chesapeake rose $1.22 cents, or 4.1 percent, to $31.28 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have gained 21 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  