-- Chinese Steel Drill-Pipe Exporters to Face U.S. Dumping Duties
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2011-02-07T23:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/chinese-steel-pipe-makers-to-face-86-u-s-dumping-duties-after-itc-ruling.html
Chinese makers of steel pipe used to
drill for oil will face dumping and subsidy duties averaging 86
percent, after the U.S. International Trade Commission ruled
that domestic competitors may be hurt by the low-cost imports.  The independent panel yesterday voted 3-to-3, a tie that
affirmed the complaint by U.S. companies and makes the action
final. Duties will take effect this month.  “We invented these products a hundred years ago,” said
Roger Schagrin, a lawyer for U.S. producers who filed the case
more than a year ago. Without duties “we would be dependent on
imports from  China  for this critical industry.”  Companies such as closely held  VAM Drilling USA Inc.  in
Houston and a U.S. subsidiary of Moscow-based OAO TMK sought the
duties on imports of the pipe, valued at $109 million for 2009.
After the complaint, imports from China fell by more than two-
thirds to $24 million in the first half of 2010, according to
U.S. Commerce Department data.  U.S. Steel Corp., the nation’s largest producer of the
metal by volume, and the United Steelworkers union supported the
complaint.  Oil-service companies that use the pipe sought to fend off
the duties, arguing that U.S. makers are enjoying steady profits
and the tariffs will raise their costs.  “There was no case for injury or threat,” said Lewis
Leibowitz, a lawyer at Hogan Lovells LLP in Washington who
representing U.S. drilling companies.    Wang Baodong , a spokesman for the Chinese Embassy in
Washington, didn’t return a telephone message seeking comment.  Three Cases  The U.S. has completed three cases targeting China pipes
used by the oil and natural-gas industry. The complaints said
Chinese makers are dumping their products at a discount in the
U.S. and benefiting from unfair government subsidies.  Under a Commerce Department ruling last month, DP Master
Manufacturing Co. received a dumping rate of 69.32 percent,
while Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. had no dumping duty applied.
That rate was applied to three other companies, while all other
Chinese producers must pay 429.95 percent. The so-called
countervailing duty rate for all companies was set at 18.18
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 