-- China Buys Bordeaux Chateaux, Wine as 2008 Vintage Hits Shelves
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2011-02-07T04:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/china-buys-bordeaux-estates-wine-as-2008-vintage-hits-shelves-elin-mccoy.html
A blizzard threatened the  New York 
arrival of nearly 100 Bordeaux chateau owners who were eager to
show off their 2008 vintage, now bottled and soon to appear on
retail shelves.  They, and the wines, made it and tales of hours on airport
tarmacs mixed with wine talk as I sipped and spat the 100-plus
reds and whites at the annual  Union des Grands Crus  tasting at
New York’s  Metropolitan Pavilion  just over a week ago.  Many owners are already touting the greatness of 2010 and
suggest 2008 may be Bordeaux’s last price/quality buy.  I’ve heard that about other vintages, but this time it just
might be true -- at least until the Chinese start hoovering up
these wines. After all, 2008 Chateau Lafite, that country’s
favorite label, has skyrocketed from $600 to nearly $2,000 a
bottle in the past year, riding Chinese demand.  Even in barrel, the 2008s were a surprise, much better than
anyone expected.  “It was a cold vintage, and at the end of August we
thought it was all over for the reds,” said spiffily suited
Olivier Bernard of  Domaine de Chevalier  as he splashed wine in
my glass. “Luckily September and October were so nice we could
wait for real ripeness before picking. I have never harvested so
late.”  What’s tough for reds can be good for whites, and Domaine
de Chevalier’s rare white ($95) definitely deserves five stars.  While the reds are inconsistent, the best showed plenty of
finesse and fruity charm, though not the concentration and
ageability of the great 2005s and tannic 2009s.  Think of the 2008s as classic, medium-weight Bordeaux. (I
kept writing the words ‘appetizing,’ ‘balanced,’ ‘savory’ in my
notes.)  Right Price  The prices are right with many wines, cheaper than any
other good vintage on the market. Most of the still-in-barrel
2009s cost a third to half more, don’t arrive until 2012, and
won’t be ready to drink for at least a decade.  The delicious  Chateau Cantemerle  is $25 while Domaine de
Chevalier’s very solid red is $50. From Saint-Emilion, I like
lush, ripe Figeac ($90), a steal considering its ‘09 goes for
$250. From Saint-Julien my picks are plummy, silky Lagrange
($35) and dark, rich, smooth Leoville Barton ($60). In Margaux,
my favorite is fragrant, tender, elegant Rauzan-Segla ($70).  As usual, Pauillac’s  Chateau Pichon-Longueville  Baron ($80)
has power and finesse, but the star of the tasting is the ripe,
layered Pichon Lalande ($110).  As Gary Boom, managing director of London-based merchant
Bordeaux Index puts it, “The ‘08s are the hottest ticket right
now. You can get two cases of 2008 Pichon Lalande for the price
of a decent handbag.”  Staggering 2009s  The first growths, already soaring in price, and a few
other top chateaux don’t deign to pour in these group tastings.  When 2008 futures went on sale in summer 2009 in the middle
of the recession, top names sold because they were very fairly
priced, says Chris Adams, president of New York’s  Sherry-
Lehmann .  There was a serious uptick last fall after the staggering
2009 futures prices were released, making the 2008s look
positively cheap by comparison.  Now, the costs of 2008s vary widely, as much as $600 and
more a case. That’s thanks to currency fluctuations and the fact
that each time retailers buy more, they pay a higher price. Paul
Favale Jr., vice president of negociant and importer  Joanne
Bordeaux USA , points out that retail prices can be lower than
wholesale, depending on when a retailer purchased the wine.
Caveat emptor.    Asia  largely stayed out of the 2008 futures game, with only
a few top labels in demand, said Boom, whose company maintains
an office in  Hong Kong . Besides the first growths, a handful
excite interest.  ‘Dragon Boat’  Chateau Angelus  is known as ‘kin chung,’ the golden bell,
after the symbol on the wine’s label, an association that boosts
its sales, explained co-owner Jean-Bernard Grenie.  Chateau Beychevelle  is called ‘dragon boat’ because its
label features a boat with a gryffon. Calon Segur, with a heart
on its label, is often given as a token of affection.  Now that 2008 is being released in bottle “and the wine is
physical,” Boom thinks another 20 to 50 labels will sell in  China , pushing prices higher. He reports sales to Asia of second
growths like Pichon Baron went up 35 percent over the past year.  Besides embracing the wine, the Chinese are snapping up
Bordeaux estates. UK wine magazine Decanter reported last week
that Cofco, a Beijing-based grain and food company owned by the
government, has just bought Chateau Viaud, a small property in
Lalande-de-Pomerol, as part of a bigger business deal.  That’s the third Chinese chateau purchase in the past two
years, and more are said to be in the works.  After 2008 and 2009, will any buyers invest in the 2010s,
supposedly another ‘vintage of the century?’ I’ll report on
whether the buzz on quality is justified in April, after the
annual en primeur tastings.  “I always prefer to have the problem of how to sell really
great wine,” said Sherry-Lehmann’s Adams.  We’ll see.    Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 