-- Hosken Buys 33.9% Stake in KWV, South African Wine Maker, for $38 Million
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2011-02-07T16:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/hci-buys-31-8-stake-in-south-african-winemaker-kwv-holdings-from-zeder.html
  Zeder Investments Ltd . accepted  Hosken Consolidated Investments Ltd .’s offer to buy some of its
shares in  KWV Holdings Ltd. , a South African wine and spirits
company, for less than what Pioneer Food Group Ltd. offered.  HCI offered 11.80 rand per share for 21.8 million shares
held by Zeder, the latter said in a statement today. That’s less
than the 12 rand a share Pioneer offered on Dec. 2.  “Hosken made us an offer for that amount of shares and
that is why we sold them 21.8 million shares instead of the
whole stake we owned,” said Zeder investment analyst Willem Meyer in a telephone interview from Cape Town today. “KWV has
increased from 6.23 rand in August 2009, so we are still happy
to exit at this price.” Zeder will retain about 2 million KWV
shares, said Meyer.  A bid for KWV by Pioneer, a South African food company, was
abandoned last week after minority shareholders opposed it. HCI,
an investment holding company with interests in gaming and South
African free-to-air broadcaster etv, bought 23.2 million shares
in KWV, comprising a 33.9 percent stake in the company, for
274.12 million rand ($38 million).  “We bought the stake from Zeder and other shareholders,”
Chief Executive Officer Johnny Copelyn said in a telephone
interview from  Cape Town  today. “We are a completely
opportunistic investor, making investments in many companies in
different industries as long as the company itself is good.”  Minorities Threshold  HCI’s holding in KWV is below the 34.9 percent threshold
above which companies are required to make a mandatory offer to
minority shareholders.  “KWV has just come through a period where minority
shareholders were feeling they don’t want to be kicked out and
we wanted to do this in a manner that’s inoffensive to
shareholders who think there is future in remaining invested in
KWV,” Copelyn said.  KWV’s earnings per share excluding one-time items for
continuing operations may drop as much as 85 percent in first
half through December, according to a statement published in the
Johannesburg-based Business Day newspaper on Feb. 2.  Zeder’s remaining 2 million shares in KWV are available for
sale, according to Meyer.  “Those people who said KWV was worth 18 rand a share can
now put their money where their mouths are,” said Meyer.  Zeder holds 41 percent of Kaap Agri, which in turn owns
27.6 percent of shares in Pioneer.  Zeder climbed 0.8 percent to 2.70 rand by the 5 p.m. close
in Johannesburg, extending its increase this year to 3.9
percent. HCI climbed less than 0.1 percent to close at 78.05
rand.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 