-- Cochlear Profit Rises; Sales Miss Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2011-02-08T05:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/cochlear-reports-first-half-net-income-record-on-sale-of-implants-baha.html
  Cochlear Ltd ., maker of the world’s
best-selling hearing implant, said first-half profit rose to a
record because of demand for its newest device. The shares fell
after revenue missed estimates.  Net income climbed 16 percent to A$87.2 million ($88
million), or A$1.53 a share, in the six months ended Dec. 31,
from A$75.2 million, or A$1.33, a year earlier, Sydney-based
Cochlear said in a statement today. Analysts projected profit of
A$85 million, according to the average of five estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The stock fell to the lowest in 11 weeks after sales
climbed 8.5 percent to A$377 million, falling short of analysts’
estimates of A$396 million. Brokerages were overly optimistic
about the extent to which Cochlear’s revenue would be boosted by  Sonova Holding AG ’s product recall last year, Chief Executive
Officer Chris Roberts said.  “There was huge expectation for this instant big kick” to
Cochlear’s sales, Roberts said in a telephone interview. “That
showed a complete lack of understanding for how the market
works.”  Patients with a Sonova implant in one ear and who were
planning to get an implant in the other may be more likely to
wait for the company to reintroduce its product, rather than
switch immediately to a Cochlear device, Roberts said. It’s a
“big decision” to change brands, he said.  Skilled Procedure  Cochlear’s implants  require a trained surgeon to install
and help restore hearing to people with severe to profound
hearing loss. A processor behind the ear picks up sounds and
converts them into digital signals it sends to a receiver
implanted in the cochlea, a hollow bone shaped like a snail
shell in the inner ear. That stimulates the auditory nerve and
the brain perceives the signals as sound.  Sonova recalled its HiRes 90K hearing implant worldwide in
November after a malfunction caused “severe pain, overly loud
sounds and/or shocking sensations” in two cases. The Staefa,
Switzerland-based company said Feb. 3 it’s preparing to
reintroduce the implants, possibly as soon as April.  Cochlear fell 1.7 percent to A$76.18 as of the 4:10 p.m.
close of trading in Sydney, the lowest since Nov. 23. The
ASX/S&P 200 Index gained 0.5 percent.  The company said it will pay an interim dividend of A$1.05
on March 15, more than the 95 cents given a year earlier.  Unit Sales Increase  Its implant sales rose 20 percent to 11,765 units in the
half year, with its latest Nucleus 5 model accounting for more
than two-thirds of revenue. Emerging markets comprised one-third
of product sales by units, Cochlear said.  Shane Storey, an analyst at Wilson HTM Ltd. in Brisbane,
raised the stock to “buy” from “hold” after the result
because of sales prospects from new products the company is
developing, he said in an e-mail.  “Cochlear is strategically well positioned for long-term
sustainable growth and the outlook remains positive,” the
company said in a separate statement. “There is a significant
unmet clinical need for Cochlear’s products, leading to ongoing
demand from the emerging and developed markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  