-- Securitization Quality Declines as Wall Street Revives Issuance
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2011-02-07T18:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/commercial-mortgage-securitization-quality-declining-as-issuance-revives.html
The quality of commercial mortgages
being packaged into bonds is declining as sales in that market
soar, a  Standard & Poor’s  analyst said at a securitization
industry conference.  “There’s some crap getting done,” David Jacob, an
executive managing director at credit-rating company S&P, said
today during a panel discussion at the American Securitization
Forum trade group’s  annual meeting  in  Orlando ,  Florida . “It’s
surprising to me this early in the cycle that some of that could
be happening.”  Banks and other investors seeking higher returns as the  Federal Reserve  restrains bond yields is fueling demand for new
securitizations of various assets, said BlackRock Inc.’s J.
Richard Blewitt. Issuance of securities backed by loans and
leases has risen since markets froze after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s 2008 collapse.  It’s been surprising how quickly investors have returned to
accepting transactions with numerous AAA rated classes, said
Blewitt, co-head of securitized assets at BlackRock, the world’s
largest money manager. Some bond buyers may not be scrutinizing
offering documents closely enough to find “hidden” dangers, he
said.  “I don’t think we’re going back to the Ponzi finance
excesses that we had in 2006 and 2007 just yet, but when I get a
little bit scared is when I see the old game of, ‘These are not
your droids, look over there, not over here,’ " Blewitt said,
referring to a scene in the original “Star Wars” movie
involving a so-called Jedi Mind Trick to evade detection.  ‘Feed the Beast’  Sales of commercial-mortgage backed securities will rise to
$45 billion this year after banks arranged $11.5 billion of the
debt in 2010, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Issuance plunged
to $3.4 billion in 2009 compared with a record $234 billion in
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Commercial banks and Wall Street firms are building out
platforms that will feed the beast,” said Martin Hughes, chief
executive officer of  Redwood Trust Inc ., which in April
completed the only private residential-mortgage deal in almost
three years and last year began lending in the market.  The market for securities backed by automobile debt is in
many ways now no different than in 2007, before the financial
crisis, said Scott Krohn, director of asset-backed securities
and long-term funding at Ford Motor Co.’s finance arm.  The company will probably sell $12 billion to $16 billion
of the bonds this year, up from $11 billion last year, in part
reflecting growing car sales as the economy strengthens, he
said.  “In my estimation the auto ABS market is all the way back
in terms of spreads and liquidity,” he said during the panel.
“In our last transaction, we had subordinate classes that were
as many as six times oversubscribed,” he said later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  