-- Crew Energy, Royal Bank, Victoria Gold: Canadian Equity Preview
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   S t e p h e n   K l e e g e
-- 2011-02-07T14:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/crew-energy-royal-bank-victoria-gold-canadian-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies may
have unusual moves in Canadian trading Feb. 7.    Crew Energy Inc . (CR CN): The oil and gas explorer
producing fuel in Alberta and Saskatchewan is offering 4.82
million shares at C$20.75. The stock fell 0.7 percent to C$21.19
on Feb. 4.  Energy Fuels Inc. (EFR CN): The developer of uranium and
vanadium mines said a Colorado state court has denied an
environmental group’s legal challenge to the environmental
permit for Energy Fuels’ Pinon Ridge Mill.    Manulife Financial Corp . (MFC CN): Canada’s largest insurer
got a “neutral” rating in new coverage at Macquarie Capital
Markets.  McGraw-Hill Ryerson Ltd. (MHR CN): The educational
publisher said it earned C$1.60 a share in the fourth quarter,
down 13 percent from the fourth quarter of 2009.    Royal Bank of Canada  (RY CN): The country’s biggest lender
said it doesn’t plan to redeem so-called innovative Tier 1
capital securities early as it makes the transition to new
capital rules outlined by regulators.  Toronto-Dominion Bank  (TD
CN), the second-largest, said it plans to exercise early
redemption rights in 2022 on some TD Capital Trust notes.  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce (CM CN) said it expects
to exercise early redemption rights in 2022 on Series B
innovative Tier 1 capital notes issued by CIBC Capital Trust.
The shares were raised to “overweight” from “equal weight”
at Barclays Capital.    National Bank of Canada  (NA CN) and Bank of Montreal (BMO
CN): The banks were raised to “buy” from “‘hold” at
Canaccord GenuityCorp.    Victoria Gold Corp . (VIT CN): The company, which explores
for gold in Nevada, said Chief Executive Officer Chad Williams
has resigned and been replaced by John McConnell, formerly
executive vice president.  To contact the reporter on this story;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Kleege in New York at 
 skleege@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 