-- Oil Falls for Third Day in New York as Egypt Concern Eases
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2011-02-07T08:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/crude-oil-pares-gains-to-trade-near-a-one-week-low-as-egypt-concern-eases.html
Oil fell for a third day as receding
violence in  Egypt  reduced concern that supplies of crude from
the Middle East will be disrupted.  New York futures dropped as much as 0.6 percent after
Egyptian Vice President  Omar Suleiman  and some members of the
opposition agreed yesterday on limited steps to resolve the
crisis.  Brent crude ’s premium over West Texas Intermediate was
at the widest in three days.  “Certainly, eyes are on Egypt, but it’s much, much calmer
than at the outset of the crisis,” said Mark Keenan, chief
investment officer of Cubit Asset Management Pte in  Singapore .
“Once everyone comes back to work after the Chinese New Year
holiday, we’ll see a bit more direction.”  The March contract declined as much as 52 cents to $88.51 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
and was at $88.69 at 4:10 p.m. in Singapore. Futures settled at
$89.03 on Feb. 4, the lowest since Jan. 27. Prices are up 23
percent the past year.  Brent crude for March settlement was at $100.07 a barrel,
up 24 cents, or 0.2 percent, on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. It slid $1.93, or 1.9 percent, to end at $99.83
on Feb. 4.  Egyptian banks opened yesterday for the first time in more
than a week and courts resumed hearings, state television said.
As many as 300 people have died since clashes started Jan. 25,
according to the  United Nations . Oil in New York rose as high as
$92.84 since the start of the turmoil, the most since Oct. 7,
2008. Brent futures surged above $100 a barrel.    Hedge Funds   Hedge funds raised bullish bets on oil by the most in eight
weeks in the seven days ended Feb. 1 on concern the unrest would
spread. Middle East and North African countries produce 36
percent of global oil and have 61 percent of proven reserves,
according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  The funds and other large speculators increased net-long
positions, or wagers on rising prices, by 17 percent, according
to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments
of Traders report. It was the largest gain since the week ended
Dec. 7.  Egypt’s Suleiman met yesterday with the Wafd and Tagammu
parties, Muslim Brotherhood and billionaire Naguib Sawiris. The
negotiators agreed to set up a committee that will recommend by
the first week of March constitutional changes needed for free
and fair elections, Suleiman said in a statement.  Brent Premium  Brent’s premium to West Texas Intermediate, the crude grade
traded in New York, widened to $11.32 a barrel today from $10.80
at the end of last week. The spread averaged 76 cents last year.  WTI’s discount may narrow as the political crisis in Egypt
abates, according to Cubit’s Keenan.  “The reason the spread blew out in the first place was
because of the preference of Brent as a global benchmark over
WTI for people to express any geopolitical hedges,” said
Keenan. “If we do see the Egypt situation resolving itself, I
think we will get a narrowing of that WTI-Brent spread.”  About 2.5 percent of global oil output moves through Egypt
via the  Suez Canal  and the Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Crude oil may decline this week as U.S. inventories
increase and fuel consumption drops, a Bloomberg News survey
showed. Fourteen of 31 analysts, or 45 percent, forecast crude
oil will fall through Feb. 11. Last week, 46 percent said
futures would decrease.  Financial markets in  South Korea ,  Hong Kong , Singapore and  Malaysia  resumed trading today after the Lunar New Year
holidays, while those in  China , Taiwan and Vietnam will reopen
later this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  