-- Crude Oil Decreases to One-Week Low as Egyptian Tensions Ease
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2011-02-07T21:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/crude-oil-falls-for-a-third-day-on-ample-u-s-supplies-decline-in-demand.html
Oil fell to the lowest level in a
week as talks between the government and opposition leaders
helped ease tensions in  Egypt , reducing concern that supplies
will be disrupted.  Oil dropped 1.7 percent in New York as Egyptian banks began
to reopen after two weeks of unrest and the sale of Treasury
bills resumed. As the unrest subsided, crude supplies at
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for New York-traded
futures, stood at a six-year high in an Energy Department report
last week.  “It looks like the situation in Egypt is calming down,”
said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence
Investment Management in  St. Louis .  Crude oil for March delivery declined $1.55 to settle at
$87.48 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
level since Jan. 27. Futures have fallen 5.1 percent in the past
five days.  Egypt’s government pledged progress within a month toward
free elections, a move intended to persuade protesters to leave
Cairo’s Tahrir Square after two weeks of rallies aimed at
toppling President Hosni Mubarak.  Vice President  Omar Suleiman  promised a draft list within a
month of changes needed to hold free elections. Protesters
remained on the streets of central Cairo, insisting that Mubarak
step down before his term ends in September, though there was
none of the violence that erupted last week.  Egypt is “making progress,” U.S. President  Barack Obama 
told reporters as he returned from a speech to the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce.  Egyptian Unrest  Oil in New York surged to $92.84 in intraday trading on
Jan. 31, the highest level since Oct. 7, 2008, on concern
Egyptian unrest would disrupt shipments from the Middle East.  About 2.5 percent of global oil production moves through
Egypt via the  Suez Canal  and the Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline,
according to Goldman Sachs Group.    Hedge funds  raised bullish bets on oil by the most in eight
weeks in the seven days ended Feb. 1 as large speculators
increased net-long positions, or wagers on rising prices,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly
Commitments of Traders report, released Feb. 4.  Brent crude oil for March settlement dropped 58 cents, or
0.6 percent, to $99.25 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The contract reached $103.37 on Feb. 3, the
highest level since Sept. 26, 2008.  Brent was $11.77 a barrel more expensive than Nymex’s West
Texas Intermediate oil, a record premium based on settlement
prices. The surpassed the previous record of $11.48 set Feb. 2.  WTI-Brent Spread  “This big differential between Brent and WTI is something
very new in the markets,” said  Adam Sieminski , chief economist
at Deutsche Bank, said in an interview on “Surveillance
Midday” on Bloomberg Television. “There’s too much oil in
Cushing and it’s holding prices down there.”  Oil supplies at Cushing rose by 667,000 barrels, or 1.8
percent, to 38.3 million barrels in the seven days ended Jan.
28, the highest level in data going back to April 2004.  High Cushing supplies and the wide differential between
Brent and WTI also caused the premiums for Light Louisiana Sweet
and Heavy Louisiana Sweet crude oils for delivery along the Gulf
Coast to rise to the highest levels since Bloomberg began
keeping records in 1991.  “There’s a lot of oil at Cushing, which is going to keep
WTI depressed, while the unrest in the Middle East and North
Africa has a bigger impact on Brent,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago .  U.S. Demand  Total fuel demand decreased 0.3 percent to 18.8 million
barrels a day in the week ended Jan. 28, the lowest level since
November, according to the Energy Department’s Feb. 2 report.  U.S. gasoline supplies rose 6.15 million barrels to 236.2
million, the highest level since March 1993.  “There’s no fundamental reason for the market here to show
strength,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Gasoline supplies
are at an 18-year high, there’s a large amount of crude oil at
Cushing and fuel demand is tepid.”  Gasoline for March delivery gained 1.52 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $2.4505 a gallon amid speculation that
refinery shutdowns will limit supplies of the motor fuel.  Oil is unlikely to sustain a move above $100 a barrel for
long because of ample spare capacity by members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, according to a
report by Barclays Capital analysts including Amrita Sen in  London .  “Our view remains that while oil prices are set to spend a
fair amount of time above $100 a barrel, it is unlikely to
average $100 this year,” the analysts said in the report issued
today.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 629,724
contracts as of 3:27 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 783,001
contracts Feb. 4, 11 percent above the average of the past three
months. Open interest was 1.562 million contracts, the highest
level since September 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 