-- Danaher Agrees to Buy Beckman Coulter for $6.8 Billion to Add Diagnostics
-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2011-02-07T23:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/danaher-says-it-will-buy-beckman-coulter-for-6-8-billion-including-debt.html
  Danaher Corp . climbed to the highest
price since 1980 after agreeing to pay $6.8 billion for
diagnostic-equipment maker  Beckman Coulter Inc.  amid higher
demand for medical tests from an aging U.S. population.  Danaher, a maker of microscopes and water-treatment
systems, will start a tender offer of $83.50 a share for 76-
year-old Beckman Coulter’s outstanding stock within seven days,
the company said today in a statement. The deal’s total
valuation includes available cash and net debt, Danaher said.  “Clinicians and patients are looking for better
outcomes,” Chief Executive Officer Lawrence Culp said on a
conference call to discuss the purchase. “Better information
upfront is going to drive that. The aging of our population in
the West certainly was a driver here for us.”  Danaher expects  Beckman Coulter  to add as much as 10 cents
to adjusted earnings per share this year and as much as 30 cents
to net per-share earnings in 2012, according to a  presentation 
on the company’s website. The Brea, California company will be
folded into Danaher’s  Life Sciences  division, which makes
diagnostic equipment and posted 2010 revenue of  $2.3 billion , or
about 17 percent of the company’s total sales.  Danaher, based in  Washington , added $1.05, or 2.2 percent,
to $49.03 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The increase capped a 38 percent gain in the past 12
months and was the largest since July 1980, the earliest date
recorded in Bloomberg data. Beckman Coulter climbed $7.48, or 10
percent, to $82.65.  Medical-technology businesses will make up about 47 percent
of Danaher’s sales after the acquisition, and Culp said that
figure would probably drop to 40 percent over time.  ‘High-Water Mark’  “We’re at a little bit of a high-water mark here, I
suspect, but it’s temporary,” he said on the call. “There’s no
change in who we want to be, who we are five to 10 years down
the road.”  Culp said in December that the company would have about $4
billion for acquisitions during the next four to six quarters.
So far in 2011, Danaher announced one other purchase agreement,
of Belgian software maker EskoArtwork for about $470 million.  Following the completion of that deal and the Beckman
Coulter purchase, Danaher will make mostly “bolt-on
acquisitions” that complement existing businesses outside of
life sciences, Culp said on the call.  “We’re going to continue to be active but on a moderated
basis,” he said.  Acquisition Funding  Danaher said about 25 percent of funding for the Beckman
Coulter acquisition will be cash on hand, about 60 percent will
be new and acquired debt and 15 percent will be equity. The deal
should be completed in the first half, the companies said.  Danaher has found $250 million in cost savings and
“synergies” it can produce from the deal, Culp told analysts.
The two companies share some customers and Danaher can help
accelerate Beckman’s growth in  China , among other emerging
markets outside the U.S., he said.  Danaher has “tremendous opportunity to unlock value at
Beckman Coulter,” Culp said. “We believe this will be a high-
fit, high-opportunity deal.”  Demographic trends provide a “tailwind” for the health-
care industry, Aaron Vaughn, a St. Louis-based analyst with  Edward Jones , wrote in a note to clients.  “The over-60 age group will be one of the fastest-growing
age groups over the next couple of decades, and utilization of
health-care products such as  prescription drugs  and devices
increases with age,” wrote Vaughn, who has a “hold” rating on
the shares.  45% Premium  Danaher’s offer represents a premium of about 45 percent to
Beckman Coulter’s closing price on Dec. 9, the day before
speculation of a sale began, Danaher said.  The average premium paid for more than 160 U.S. medical
instrument companies in the past five years, based on the
average share price in the 20 days before an announcement, was
40 percent. On that basis, Danaher’s premium for Beckman would
be 15 percent.  The deal’s multiple of 7.1 times Beckman Coulter’s earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization compares
with a median multiple of 26 in more than a dozen acquisitions,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Beckman Coulter traces its roots to the mid-1930s when
Arnold Beckman made his first pH meter to measure the acidity of
lemon juice. The company manufactures  products  used to diagnose
diseases and in the development of new drugs, including
centrifuges, hematology analyzers and cell sorters. It had about
11,800 employees at the end of 2009, when it posted about $3.26
billion in sales.  CEO’s Departure  Beckman Coulter said in September that Chief Executive
Officer  Scott Garrett  had resigned and appointed J. Robert Hurley as interim president and CEO while it searched for a
successor.  The departure of Garrett, who had been CEO for more than
five years, followed a drop in Beckman’s stock price and second-
quarter earnings that fell short of analysts’ estimates.  Beckman received a  warning letter  during the summer from
U.S. regulators saying the company marketed a test for heart
problems without proper clearance.  The warning letter from the  Food and Drug Administration 
involved a test called AccuTnI, which measures a protein called
tropinin that is a marker for heart problems. The FDA letter
said the company had made “significant modifications” to the
product without getting the required regulatory clearance.  Danaher was competing with two private-equity groups, one
of which included Apollo Global Management LLC, to acquire
Beckman Coulter, people familiar with the matter said in
January.  ‘More Than Fair’  Bids for Beckman came in last week, according to a person
familiar with the matter. The Apollo-led group put in a per-
share bid in the $70s and was told later in the week that its
offer was too low, the person said. The group decided not
to raise the offer, the person said.  An Apollo spokesman didn’t immediately return phone calls
seeking comment.  “A sale price in the low $80s is more than fair,” Doug Schenkel, a Boston-based analyst with Cowen & Co., wrote in a
note to clients.  While Diagnostic Products Corp. and Dade Behring Holdings
Inc. were acquired at higher multiples in 2006 and 2007,
respectively, “those deals were done in better times and those
assets were in better standing, given Beckman Coulter’s recent
challenges,” Schenkel wrote. He has a “neutral” rating on the
shares.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Latham & Watkins LLP are
advising Beckman Coulter, and Morgan Stanley is advising
Danaher.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Daley in  New York  at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  