-- Danish Banks Face Consolidation Wave After Bondholder Losses
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2011-02-08T12:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/danish-banks-face-consolidation-as-amagerbanken-leaves-investors-in-lurch.html
Danish banks may face a wave of
consolidation after the country’s latest lender insolvency left
some bondholders in the lurch, straining efforts to raise funds
just over four months after the state withdrew its guarantee.  “This is of course what we fear,” said Karen Froesig,
chief executive officer at Sydbank A/S, the country’s third-
largest lender, in an interview yesterday. “It can’t be ruled
out that it will be harder to borrow.”  The Feb. 6 failure of Amagerbanken A/S, the country’s
fifth-biggest listed lender, marks Denmark’s eighth bailout of a
local bank since 2008 and shows the smallest Scandinavian
economy may be faring worse than Sweden and  Norway  in emerging
from the financial crisis. Amagerbanken is the first bank to
fail since Denmark on Sept. 30 ended its blanket guarantee of
deposits and senior debt, leaving some creditors with losses.  Denmark’s biggest lenders, with more than 50 billion kroner
($9.1 billion) in working capital, raised 699 billion kroner of
their funding through bond sales as of June, up 7 percent from a
year earlier, according to the  Financial Supervisory Authority .
Banks with less than 50 billion kroner in working capital almost
tripled bond sales in the period to 72.4 billion kroner, it
estimates.  ‘More Reluctant’  “International investors are going to be much more
reluctant to lend to smaller Danish banks after the collapse of
Amagerbanken,” said Jakob Brink, a Copenhagen-based analyst at
Svenska Handelsbanken AB. “This will likely add stress to
others on the brink and could stimulate further consolidation in
the Danish bank sector.”    Denmark , with a population of 5.4 million people and gross
domestic product of $300 billion, has about 125 banks. That
compares with 89 in Sweden, the largest Nordic economy.  Sydbank, based in Aabenraa in the southwest of Denmark, and
Spar Nord Bank A/S, the country’s fourth-biggest bank, said
yesterday they may bid for Amagerbanken. Danske Bank A/S, the
country’s biggest lender, said it won’t bid because of antitrust
limitations. Jyske Bank A/S, Denmark’s second-biggest lender,
declined to comment.  A sales process will start once the state’s bailout unit
Financial Stability has split off Amagerbanken’s toxic assets,
the bailout fund’s Chairman Henning Kruse Petersen said in an
interview yesterday. The bank will probably be sold to a single
bidder from Denmark or  Sweden , he said. Financial Stability will
absorb 15.2 billion kroner in commitments and won’t cover an
estimated 13.2 billion kroner, including 5.6 billion kroner in
debt guaranteed by the government.  Counting Losses  Amagerbanken failed to meet a Feb. 4 deadline to prove it
was solvent after losing money on property investments, currency
speculation and some wind-energy projects, the  Financial
Supervisory Authority  said. It sought  bankruptcy protection 
after writing down 3.14 billion kroner for the fourth quarter,
in addition to the 2.99 billion kroner of bad debts incurred
since the beginning of 2008.  Economy and Business Affairs Minister Brian Mikkelsen said
final losses, which have yet to be determined, will be borne by
stockholders and subordinated debt investors.  “It is the first bank failure where depositors have the
possibility to lose money,” Kruse Petersen said. “We haven’t
seen that yet in Western Europe. I have been confident since
early 2009, and I’ve been disappointed ever since.”  Creditor Losses  Financial Stability said it estimates creditors and
depositors will lose about 41 percent of holdings not covered by
the state guarantee. This would affect less than 2 billion
kroner in bonds, according to a spokesman at Financial
Stability, who declined to be named citing company policy.  Depositors will lose as much as 700 million kroner, Borsen
reported today without saying how it obtained the information.
Nykredit A/S, Denmark’s biggest mortgage lender, probably lost
290 million kroner, the newspaper said, citing Chief Executive
Officer Peter Engberg Jensen. Nykredit's exposure includes
a senior loan of 100 million kroner, Borsen said.  “In the long-term it won’t impact the big banks -- they
still have strong names,” said Christian Hede, an analyst at
Jyske Bank, in a video clip posted on the lender’s website.
“Small and medium-sized Danish banks will have a lot of
problems raising money abroad and therefore this could
accelerate the consolidation wave that we anticipate will occur
this year.”  Mortgage Market  Denmark, home to the world’s third-largest mortgage-bond
market after the U.S. and  Germany , will deliver the weakest
economic growth in Scandinavia this year, the European
Commission estimates.  GDP will expand 1.9 percent in 2011, compared with 3.3
percent in Sweden and 2.9 percent in Finland, the commission
said on Nov. 29. Norway’s mainland economy, which excludes oil
and shipping income, will grow 3 percent, the country’s central
bank estimates.  Bank earnings to date “indicate that Denmark is the most
problematic country in the Nordic region in terms of  credit
quality ,” said  Simon Maughan , co-head of European equities at
MF Global in  London .  Though Danish banks have yet to report fourth-quarter
results, Stockholm-based  Nordea Bank AB , the largest lender in
the Nordic region, said its loan-loss ratio in Denmark last
quarter reached 44 basis points, or 0.44 of a percentage point.
That compares with 12 in Sweden, 22 in  Finland  and 24 in Norway.  Won’t Make It  Nordea Chief Executive Officer Christian Clausen said his
bank has a “tail of customers” in Denmark that “will not make
it,” on a Feb. 2 conference call. While loan losses are
unlikely to swell, they will probably stay at the current level
for “some upcoming quarters,” he said.  Amagerbanken’s failure underlines the need to merge
Denmark’s Financial Supervisory Authority with the central bank,
Governor Nils Bernstein said in a written response to questions
sent by newspaper Borsen. The Ministry of Economy and Business
Affairs has appointed a committee to look into the matter,
Bernstein said.  Prime Minister Lars Loekke Rasmussen said a merger between
the FSA and the central bank may result in “synergies,” though
the move could also create some “problems” and isn’t a
proposal he would back “unconditionally,” at a weekly press
briefing in Copenhagen today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net 
Adam Ewing at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net .
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 