-- Datalogic to Resume Paying Dividend, Seeks Acquisition Targets, CEO Says
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2011-02-07T08:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/datalogic-to-resume-paying-dividend-seeks-acquisition-targets-ceo-says.html
  Datalogic SpA ,  Europe ’s largest maker
of barcode scanners, will resume dividend payments this year
after posting “exceptional” results in 2010, Chief Executive
Officer Mauro Sacchetto said.  The company, which didn’t pay a dividend last year, will
pay about 10 euro cents ($0.14) per share, corresponding to
between 28 percent and 30 percent of 2010 net income, Sacchetto
said in a phone interview. About one in three supermarket-
checkout scanners throughout the world is made by Datalogic,
whose clients include  Wal-Mart Stores Inc .,  Tesco Plc  and  Carrefour SA .  “It’s been a very positive year,” the CEO said. “We’ve
gained market share and I see no reason why we shouldn’t share
this with shareholders.”  Datalogic, based in Bologna,  Italy , said Jan. 18 that
preliminary revenue for 2010 rose 26 percent to 392.7 million
euros. Sacchetto said that last year’s revenue and profit were
already ahead of targets for 2011 in the company’s three-year 
business plan presented in October. The CEO said the company may
raise targets around midyear.  “I’m confident 2011 will also be positive and we’ll keep
gaining market share,” Sacchetto said. “It will be difficult
to replicate last year’s performance.”  The company, which has about 2,000 employees in 30
countries across Europe, Asia and the U.S., is looking at
acquisition opportunities in the factory-automation business.
Datalogic is seeking to add as much as 100 million euros in
revenue at the unit through an acquisition, the CEO said,
focusing on sensors, identification and laser-marking products.  “There are negotiations under way but we are not going to
overpay,” Sacchetto said. The company may finance acquisitions
with debt or through a share sale, as “shareholders are ready
to back us if we need fresh resources,” the CEO said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 