-- Deutsche Bank Faces First German Top Court Swap Case
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2011-02-07T15:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/deutsche-bank-faces-first-german-top-court-hearing-on-swap-deals.html
A fight over an interest-rate swap
sold by  Deutsche Bank AG  pending at  Germany ’s top court will
lead to the tribunal’s first judgment on the matter, one that
may influence similar cases throughout  Europe .  The Federal Court of Justice in Karlsruhe, Germany’s top
civil tribunal, will hear a claim tomorrow by  Ille Papier
Service GmbH  seeking 541,074 euros ($734,000) in damages from
the bank. The Altenstadt, Germany-based company says the bank
didn’t properly inform it about risks of an interest-rate swap.  “The crucial issue is that Deutsche Bank was the adviser
to its customer and, at the same time, the seller of the swap,”
said  Lars Kloehn , a law professor at Germany’s Marburg
University, adding the court may take the opportunity to address
the broader issue. In one role, the bank “must guard the
customer’s interests and in the other role its own interests. It
will be very exciting to see what the top court will make out of
this.”  Deutsche Bank has been sued by local governments,
community-owned utilities and companies that claim the lender
sold swaps without adequately disclosing risks. Deutsche Bank,
Depfa Bank Plc,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  UBS AG  are on trial in  Italy  over allegations of misleading Milan officials into
thinking they could save the city about 55 million euros by
selling bonds and related derivatives, while they earned 101
million euros in hidden fees.  The German city of Pforzheim filed a suit against JPMorgan
in December over 56 million euros in losses, making claims
similar to those in the top court suit.  Ladder Swap  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest lender, won a majority of
decisions on the swaps issue in German state appeals courts
while a minority said the lender violated its duties to
customers when selling the swaps and ruled, at least in part,
against the bank. The Federal Court of Justice can use the case
it hears now to give some guidance to the lower courts.  Tomorrow’s case centers on a derivative Deutsche Bank
branded as a “CMS Spread Ladder Swap.” Under its terms, the
lender paid its customer 3 percent interest on 2 million euros
for five years. The customer paid the bank 1.5 percent during
the first year and later a variable rate based in part on the
spread between two-year and 10-year Euribor rates.  In February 2005, Deutsche Bank advised Ille Papier to buy
the CMS swap based on its expectation the spread would widen and
the customer would make money. The lender hedged its risks on
the deal through options.  Autobahns  The spread narrowed in the second half of 2005 and Ille
Papier, which sells a hygienic paper brand often seen in
bathrooms at service areas along Germany’s autobahns, lost
money. The company and Deutsche Bank agreed in 2007 to terminate
the contract for a payment Ille Papier now seeks to recover. The
bank won dismissal of Ille Papier’s suit in lower courts.  Deutsche Bank, based in  Frankfurt , won’t comment on the
details of the case before there is a ruling, spokesman
Christian Steckert said. The lender has always adequately
advised its clients about the risks of the derivatives, he said.  “We’re optimistic that the top court will formulate clear
advising duties for banks which sell these products,” said
Jochen Weck, a lawyer for Ille Papier.  There are now several cases pending over CMS swaps at the
top court. The judges in 2006 refused to hear an appeal Deutsche
Bank filed in a similar case, saying the lower court was right
to find the lender at fault for not adequately informing its
customer about the speculative nature of the swaps.  Scatterguns  “Ruling the swap contracts void because they
disproportionally work in favor of the bank would be a bold
move, and courts generally shun using means that work like
scatterguns,” Kloehn said. “The court may rather use a more
flexible instrument it can scale down to each individual case,
like refining the duties the banks have when advising.”  Ille Papier claims Deutsche Bank should have disclosed the
initial negative market value of about 80,000 euros that the
bank kept for profit and costs. The company also said it wasn’t
adequately advised and that the contract was void because the
swap set up was excessively disadvantaging the customer.  The question whether the bank should have disclosed that it
included 80,000 euros as its initial fee in the swap goes to the
central conflict-of-interest theme, according to Kloehn.  “As an adviser to its customer it must disclose that. But
as a bank selling swaps it doesn’t,” said Kloehn.  German lawyer Klaus Nieding said he represents 60 companies
and local governments in disputes against banks, including
Deutsche Bank, over swaps with a value of about 160 million to
180 million euros. Nieding, who isn’t involved in tomorrow’s
case, said about a third of the claims were settled. He declined
to identify what other banks were involved.  Tomorrow’s case is BGH, XI ZR 33/10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 