-- Distressed Debt to Grow as EMI, Yell Signal Restructuring Wave
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2011-02-07T10:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/distressed-debt-set-to-grow-as-emi-yell-signal-second-restructuring-wave.html
The distressed  debt market  is set to
grow as writedowns in the value of EMI Group Ltd. and Yell Group
Plc loans signal struggling companies can’t always rely on banks
to keep them afloat.  Citigroup Inc. seized EMI, the record label of the Beatles
and Coldplay, on Feb. 1 and assigned a 35 percent value to the
loans it extended in 2007. The bank’s 2.2 billion-pound ($3.5
billion) writedown is  Europe ’s biggest by a lender in a
leveraged buyout. Yell Group Plc, which restructured its debt in
2009, may breach covenants by March next year,  Standard & Poor’s 
said Feb. 4. The publisher’s loans are trading at 50 percent of
face value, according to Commerzbank AG.  “I expect many businesses left with a zombie capital
structure will need to go through a second restructuring
especially once  interest rates  start to rise,” said Joseph
Swanson, London-based managing director with Houlihan Lokey.  The distressed debt market in Europe will grow as lenders
may become less willing to grant covenant waivers and extend
debt maturities to companies on the brink of default after the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  increased  capital
requirements  for the world’s banks in September.  Debt is considered distressed when its value falls to less
than 75 percent of face value, or yields rise to at least 10
percentage points more than benchmark rates, according to Babson
Capital Management LLC.  Declining Defaults  Creditors’ determination to avoid writedowns has helped
European speculative-grade borrowers to skirt defaults through
so-called amend and extend loans, keeping defaults to a rate of
5 percent last year, according to  Fitch Ratings .  “Europe has seen a lot of sticking-plaster debt
restructuring, that’s why the default rate is low,” said  Jon Moulton , chairman and founder of Better Capital LLP., a London-
based buyout firm. “What they did before merely bought them
more time without addressing the fundamental issue of having too
much debt.”  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision more than
doubled capital requirements for banks, which will force lenders
to sell speculative-grade debt with the highest capital charges.
The shedding of such debt assets will be a “key contributor”
leading to the growth of the distressed debt market, according
to report last year from  Barclays Capital .  Writeoffs  Lenders wrote off 700 million euros ($950 million) of
senior leveraged loans last year, down from 6.5 billion euros in
2009 and 853 million euros in 2008 on 60 European defaults,
according to Fitch. They loosened conditions on 34 deals in
2010, compared with 54 in 2009, according to S&P Leveraged
Commentary & Data. Speculative-grade borrowers in Europe have
about 500 billion euros of debt, according to Barclays.  “If banks were focused on maximizing the economic value of
their investments, we would see more cases where banks enforce
their claims, write down debt and generate financial returns
through ownership of post-restructured equity,” said  Houlihan
Lokey ’s Swanson.  Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd.,  Guy Hands ’s buyout firm,
bought EMI for about 4 billion pounds, including debt, at the
height of the buyout boom. Citigroup provided about 2.5 billion
pounds of loans to finance the purchase.  Since Hands took over, musical acts including Queen,  Paul
McCartney , and the Rolling Stones have left the label. The
company slipped from a profit of 86 million pounds in fiscal
2006 to a loss of 1.57 billion pounds in 2009 as consumers
turned to file-sharing Web sites to download songs for free.  S&P last week cut Yell, the Reading, England-based
publisher of the yellow pages directory, by one step to B-. It
said headroom under one covenant will shrink “considerably”
from September 2011 and the company will “remain under strain”
as the traditional print business becomes less profitable.  “Companies that are left over-levered after a restructuring
tend to underperform relative to their peer group,” Swanson at
Houlihan Lokey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  