-- Drugs for Schizophrenia May Exacerbate Loss of Brain Tissue, Study Finds
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2011-02-07T22:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/drugs-for-schizophrenia-may-exacerbate-loss-of-brain-tissue.html
Anti-psychotic drugs from  AstraZeneca
Plc  and  Johnson & Johnson  may lead to loss of brain tissue or
exacerbate declines in brain volume caused by schizophrenia, a
study in the  Archives of General Psychiatry  found.  Researchers tracked 211 patients with newly diagnosed
schizophrenia to determine if the progressive loss of brain
tissue widely attributed to the disease may be affected by drugs
to treat it, severity of the illness or substance abuse. More
antipsychotic drug treatment, including duration and intensity,
was linked to greater declines in brain volume. Severity of
disease, alcohol and illegal drug use had no effect.  “What we found was that medication treatments are probably
one of the contributing factors to brain volume declines we see
in people with schizophrenia,” said lead researcher Beng-Choon
Ho, a psychiatrist at the  University of Iowa ’s Carver College of
Medicine in  Iowa  City. “It’s not a wise thing to jump to the
conclusion that this is bad, although intuitively it seems like
the first thing that people will conclude. In reality, we still
don’t quite understand what it means.”  Patients shouldn’t stop taking their medicines, which
include London-based AstraZeneca’s Seroquel, Risperdal from  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J, Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly &
Co .’s Zyprexa and a host of older, generic medications, the
researchers said. Instead, they and their doctors should find
the lowest effective dose, Ho said in a telephone interview.  “Pharmaceutical companies must continue the vigorous
search for agents that are genuinely neuroprotective,” the
researchers said.  1 in 100  Schizophrenia  is a mental disorder affecting about 1 in 100
people that makes it hard to distinguish reality, think
logically and behave normally in social settings, according to
the  National Institutes of Health . Drug treatment helps control
severe symptoms, such as hearing voices or violent outbursts.
They also can produce side effects such as weight gain,
diabetes, and movement disorders.  The researchers used repeated high-resolution magnetic
resonance scans starting in 1990 to track changes in brain
volume over time. Each patient had an average of three scans and
was followed for more than seven years. The study didn’t include
a comparison group of untreated patients, which would have been
unethical, Ho said.  “It is possible that, although anti-psychotics relieve
psychosis and its attendant suffering, these drugs may not
arrest the pathophysiologic processes underlying schizophrenia
and may even aggravate progressive brain tissue volume
reductions,” the researchers concluded.  The study also raises concerns about the widespread and
growing use of anti-psychotic drugs for people without
schizophrenia, including the elderly and those with other mental
disorders, the researchers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  