-- ECB Will Act on Second-Round Effect, Mersch Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2011-02-08T14:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/ecb-will-move-to-raise-interest-rates-if-inflation-persists-mersch-says.html
The  European Central Bank  will raise
interest rates if the increase in inflation rates is not
temporary and fuels second-round effects, Governing Council
member Yves Mersch said.  “At the beginning of March you’ll have our first forecast
in 2011 and if it’s true that what we see at the moment is only
a temporary increase with a retreat at the end of the year below
2 percent, there’s no danger,” Mersch said in Luxembourg late
yesterday. “However, there would have to be a rigorous
intervention by the monetary authorities if across the second-
round effects there’s the risk that this increase transforms
into a plateau.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  last week signaled no
immediate plans to raise  interest rates  even though the bank
expects inflation to stay above its 2 percent limit for longer
than it predicted just three weeks earlier. Annual price gains
in the euro area have accelerated to 2.4 percent, the fastest in
more than two years and the central bank will publish new
economic and inflation forecasts at its next policy setting
meeting next month.  While inflation pressures have “undoubtedly increased,”
they “are of a nature that is typically outside the influence
of the central bank because their origin is external,” such as
energy and commodity prices, Mersch said.  Euribor futures dropped, with the implied yield on the
contract expiring in December increasing 4 basis points to 1.895
percent, signaling that investors boosted wagers on higher
borrowing costs. The yield has increased from 1.76 percent two
weeks ago.    Egypt  Tensions  Political tensions in Egypt are stoking oil prices, and in
Germany, where the economy is booming and import-price inflation
is running at the fastest pace in 29 years, workers are
demanding bigger pay increases.  “From the moment that we would see manifestations of
second-round effects, it’s clear that we would have to
intervene,” Mersch said.  The ECB last week kept the benchmark lending rates at 1
percent for a 22nd month. Economists expect the ECB to raise
rates in the fourth quarter, before the  Federal Reserve , which
is forecast to raise rates in the first quarter of 2012,
according to Bloomberg surveys.  German chemical workers are seeking up to 7 percent more
pay, and Volkswagen AG,  Germany ’s biggest automotive employer,
today agreed to raise wages by 3.2 percent for 100,000 workers
in the western part of the country.  Mersch said the central bank could lift borrowing costs
“without having exited” its crisis measures which include
providing banks with unlimited liquidity against eligible
collateral and buying  government bonds .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  