-- Hedge Fund Oil Bets Surge on Middle East Unrest: Energy Markets
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2011-02-07T19:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/hedge-fund-oil-wagers-surge-most-in-eight-weeks-on-egypt-energy-markets.html
Hedge funds raised bullish bets on
oil by the most in eight weeks on concern that political unrest
in  Egypt  will spread and disrupt supplies from oil-producing
countries in the Middle East.  The funds and other large speculators increased net-long
positions, or wagers on rising prices, by 17 percent in the
seven days ended Feb. 1, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments of Traders report. It
was the largest gain since the week ended Dec. 7.  Demonstrators in Egypt demanded the resignation of
President  Hosni Mubarak , who has ruled for 30 years, while
police in Yemen used tear gas against crowds on Feb. 3 and
Jordan sacked its government. Middle East and North African
countries produce 36 percent of global oil and have 61 percent
of proven reserves, according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of
World Energy. Oil in  New York  has reached $92.84 since the start
of the turmoil, the highest level since Oct. 7, 2008.  “It’s all about Egypt,” said  Andy Lipow , president of
Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “The greatest fear in the
market is if the unrest spreads to other countries like Saudi
Arabia,  Kuwait  or the Emirates, that could impact crude oil
supplies.”  Oil for March delivery advanced by $4.58, or 5.3 percent,
to $90.77 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  from Jan.
25 to Feb. 1, the week covered by the CFTC report. Futures
dropped $1.51, or 1.7 percent, to $89.03 on Feb. 4 as the army
reduced violence in Cairo. They fell $1.55 cents, or 1.7
percent, to $87.48 today.  Algeria Emergency  Algeria’s President Abdelaziz Bouteflika said Feb. 3 that a
19-year-old state of emergency will be lifted “in the very near
future.” The country produces 1.8 million barrels of oil a day
and Yemen 298,000, according to the BP report.  Saudi Arabia , the
largest producer in the Middle East, pumped 9.7 million barrels
a day in 2009.  Concern of disruptions to the  Suez Canal  sent North Sea
Brent crude to $103.37 Feb. 3, the highest intraday level since
Sept. 26, 2008. March Brent fell 54 cents to $99.29 on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange at 2:41 p p.m. in New York today.  About 2.5 percent of global oil output moves through Egypt
via the Suez Canal and the Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The waterway was open and
operating normally, Ahmed El Manakhly, head of traffic for the
Suez Canal Authority, said by phone yesterday.  Oil prices may drop unless transport through the canal is
disrupted, said  Hamza Khan , an analyst with the Schork Group
Inc., a consulting company in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .  Suez Canal  “We’re not seeing a decline in traffic,” Khan said. “You
can speculate all you want, but at some point the fundamentals
have to line up with the speculation.”  Persian Gulf shares gained yesterday, sending Dubai’s index
to a week high, as Egypt’s government met with opposition
leaders to quell protests, stoking speculation the turmoil in
the country may ease. Egyptian banks are reopening and the
government plans to resume selling Treasury bills today, Deputy
Central Bank Governor Hisham Ramez told Bloomberg TV.  Vice President  Omar Suleiman , who met with some opposition
leaders yesterday, promised to provide within a month a draft
list of constitutional changes needed for free elections.  Net-long positions in oil held by managed money, including  hedge funds , commodity pools and commodity-trading advisers,
increased 29,928 futures and options combined to 201,941,
according to the CFTC report.  Caught Off Guard  Money managers were caught off guard the previous week, as
they cut bullish bets on oil by the largest amount in two
months. Hedge funds and other large speculators reduced net-long
positions by 18 percent in the seven days ended Jan. 25. Oil
jumped 4.3 percent Jan. 28, erasing losses for the week.  In other markets, net-long positions in natural gas held by
managed money in futures and options combined in four natural-
gas contracts decreased by 35,902 futures equivalents, or 25
percent, to 106,999 in the week ended Feb. 1.  The measure of net longs includes an index of four
contracts adjusted to futures equivalents: Nymex natural gas
futures, Nymex Henry Hub Swaps, Nymex Henry Hub Penultimate
Swaps and ICE Henry Hub Swaps.  Henry Hub , in Erath,  Louisiana ,
is the delivery point for Nymex futures, a benchmark price for
the fuel.  Bullish or net-long bets on gasoline prices rose 5.8
percent to 65,331 futures and options combined, the CFTC data
showed. Net-long bets on heating oil increased by 3.9 percent to
37,337.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 