-- Egyptian Credit Risk Falling to Lowest Since Protests
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2011-02-08T09:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/egyptian-credit-risk-falling-to-lowest-since-protests-started.html
  Egypt ’s credit risk is falling to the
lowest level since anti-government protests began two weeks ago
and international borrowing costs are dropping as the nation’s
biggest political crisis in three decades eases.  The cost of insuring Egyptian sovereign debt declined 6.5
basis points from yesterday’s London close, to 338.5 as of 9:50
a.m., the lowest level since Jan. 25, according to CMA prices.
The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent bond due in April 2020 gained
11 basis points to 6.3 percent, down 89 basis points from a
record high of 7.2 percent on Jan. 31, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The government raised most of the 15 billion Egyptian
pounds ($2.5 billion) sought at a debt auction yesterday as
negotiations between opposition leaders and Vice President  Omar Suleiman  on constitutional changes needed to end the 30-year
rule of President  Hosni Mubarak  made “big progress,” Egyptian
billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , a participant in the talks, said on
Bloomberg Television.  “The market has digested the fact that things have changed
and that the end result currently does not look calamitous,”
said Oliver Bell, who helps oversee about $10 billion of
emerging-market assets as a London-based senior investment
manager at Pictet Asset Management. “It’s not as bad as
everyone thought when the violence erupted, but I don’t think we
can be certain that we know the outcome yet.”  Yields Improve  Protests that began Jan. 25 in central Cairo have killed
about 300 people, according to the  United Nations .
Demonstrations continued with thousands camping out in tents.
The government vowed progress within a month toward free
elections, a move aimed at persuading protesters to leave Tahrir
Square.  The government carried out its first auction since Jan. 27
yesterday, selling a total 13 billion pounds of bills. Yields on
the 91-day notes rose 147 basis points to 10.97 percent, the
highest rate in two years. The yield is down from 14 percent in
the aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in
September 2008.  “It’s an opportunity because the yields have improved and
we are very liquid,” National Bank of Egypt Chairman Tarek Amer
said in a telephone interview yesterday from Cairo. The bank
will continue to buy the government paper, he said.  The Egyptian pound fell 0.1 percent to 5.9600 against the  U.S. dollar , the lowest since January 2005, after sinking 1.3
percent on Feb. 6. Local banks opened on Feb. 6 for the first
time in more than a week.  The Ministry of Finance said the auction results
underscored the strength of the local financial system.    Risk Premium   “Results of the auction show that the risk premium has
abated,” Samy Khallaf, adviser to the finance minister for
public debt management, said in an e-mailed statement.  While the government raised most of what it sought, higher
borrowing costs and a weakening currency are putting pressure on
its efforts to reduce the  budget deficit .  In an attempt to placate the protesters, Finance Minister
Samir Radwan said on Feb. 5 that the government won’t reduce
subsidies even if global prices of food and commodities rise.
Public spending will be used as a tool to “achieve social
justice,” he told a news conference in Cairo.  An increase in public spending may push the budget gap to
“double digits” in 2011, compared with 8.1 percent in the
fiscal year that ended in June,  Standard & Poor’s  said last week
after lowering the country’s credit ratings by one level to two
below investment grade.  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors
Service also cut Egypt’s ratings.  Stock Exchange  Egypt’s five-year credit default swaps jumped 24 basis
points on Jan. 25 when protests started to 327.7 and climbed as
high as 421.3 on Jan. 31, according to CMA prices.  The contracts, which increase as perceptions of  credit
quality  deteriorate, pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company or government fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The stock market said yesterday that it will open on Feb.
13, two weeks after closing. The benchmark EGX 30 Index slumped
16 percent in the week ended Jan. 27, the last day the bourse
was open.  “The chances that things will work out well rather than
badly in Egypt are pretty good, so I would be a buyer rather
than a seller of Egypt,” Antoine van Agtmael, the chairman and
chief investment officer at Emerging Markets Management LLC,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview from  Washington . Van
Agtmael coined the term “emerging markets” in 1981.  ‘Reacting Positively’  London-listed global depositary receipts of  Orascom
Construction Industries , dropped 1.8 percent to $41.20 after
surging 4 percent yesterday. The Cairo-based company said in a
statement yesterday that it has resumed work on 90 percent of
its sites in the Arab country. Orascom Telecom Holding SAE rose
0.3 percent to $3.30.  “Markets are reacting positively to the improvements in
the security situation, the progress on the political dialogue,
and recent central bank measures to ensure an orderly reopening
of banks,” Alia Moubayed, a London-based economist at  Barclays
Capital , said in an e-mail. “The challenge is how to avoid this
reversal in sentiment should political volatility return, by
keeping up the pace of reforms and clear communication with
markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net 
Camilla Hall in Dubai at 
 Chall24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  