-- Egypt Sells Most of Treasury Debt Offered as Yields Climb to Two-Year High
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2011-02-07T15:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/egyptian-treasury-bill-yields-climb-to-two-year-highs-amid-protests-sale.html
  Egypt  raised most of the 15 billion
Egyptian pounds ($2.5 billion) it sought at a debt auction as
local banks stepped in to provide financing in the wake of
protests aimed at ending President  Hosni Mubarak ’s 30-year rule.  The government sold a total 13 billion pounds of bills,
paying yields of 10.97 percent on 91-day notes, the highest rate
in two years and up 147 basis points, or 1.47 percentage point,
from the previous sale on Jan. 27. The yield is down from 14
percent in the aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
collapse in September 2008.  “We were expecting yields to be higher but government
banks especially National Bank of Egypt helped stabilize the
market,” Khalil El Bawab, the head of fixed-income at Cairo-
based EFG-Hermes Asset Management, said in a telephone
interview.  National Bank of Egypt  Chairman Tarek Amer said that
the bank will continue to buy government t-bills.  The government carried out its first auction since Jan. 27
as talks progressed with opposition leaders even as protests
demanding Mubarak’s departure continued. Yields on Egypt’s
benchmark dollar bonds declined and credit-default swaps
dropped.  The average yield on 182-day bills climbed 86 basis points
to 11.5 percent, while the yield on the 273-day bills rose 120
basis points to 11.65 percent.  ‘Viewed Positively’  Ahmad Alanani, director of Middle East fixed-income sales
in Dubai at Exotix Ltd. who forecast before the sale yields may
climb as much as 350 basis points, said after that the central
bank succeeded at raising funds at yields below 12 percent,
alleviating “some of the pressure on the short end of the
curve.”  “All things considered, the auction results can be viewed
positively,” said Tarek Elalaily, director of Middle East and
North Africa fixed income sales at New York-based Cantor
Fitzgerald & Co.  While the government raised most of what it sought, higher
borrowing costs and a weakening currency are putting pressure on
the government’s efforts to trim the  budget deficit .  In an attempt to placate the protesters, Finance Minister
Samir Radwan said on Feb. 5 that the government won’t reduce
subsidies even if global prices of food and commodities rise.
Public spending will be used as a tool to “achieve social
justice,” he told a news conference in Cairo.  Double Digits  An increase in public spending may push the budget gap to
“double digits” in 2011, compared with 8.1 percent in the
fiscal year that ended in June,  Standard & Poor’s  said last week
after lowering the country’s credit ratings a notch to two
levels below investment grades.  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s
Investors Service also cut Egypt’s ratings.  The Ministry of Finance said the auction results
underscored the strength of the local financial system.  “Results of the auction shows that the  risk premium  has
abated,” Samy Khallaf, adviser to the finance minister for
public debt management, said in an e-mailed statement.  Protests that began Jan. 25 have left about 300 people
dead, according to United Nations estimates.  Vice President  Omar Suleiman , who met with some opposition
leaders yesterday, promised a draft list within a month of
changes needed to hold free elections. Protesters remained on
the streets of central Cairo, insisting that Mubarak step down
before his term ends in September. Banks opened for the first
time in more than a week yesterday.  The demonstrations disrupted the government’s financing
program as the central bank postponed the sale of 4 billion
pounds planned for Jan. 30 after raising 2.5 billion pounds on
Jan. 27.  Enough Funds  Local lenders have enough funds to buy all the debt,
central bank Deputy Governor Hisham Ramez said in an interview
earlier today on Bloomberg Television. “Banks are full of
liquidity,” he said.  The pound fell 0.3 percent to 5.953 per dollar, the lowest
since January 2005, after sinking 1.3 percent yesterday. The
yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent bond due in April 2020 dropped 39
basis points to 6.21 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The cost of insuring Egypt’s debt for five years with
credit-default swaps fell 27 basis points to 339, the lowest
level on a closing basis since Jan. 25, according to CMA prices
for credit default swaps. Egypt’s bourse has been closed since
the end of trading on Jan. 27 and will remain shut till Feb. 13.  The pound may slump 20 percent in the “short term,”
Credit Agricole CIB said in a report on Feb. 3. The currency’s
three-month non-deliverable forwards rose to a record last week,
suggesting the currency may fall more than 7 percent against the
dollar.  ‘Not Concerned’  “I am not concerned about the currency,” Ramez said.  The central bank moved 5 billion pounds of cash into the
financial system, using military cargo planes to bring in bills,
central bank Governor Farouk El-Okdah said Feb. 5 on state-run
television.  The protests in Egypt were inspired by a revolt in  Tunisia 
that led to the ouster of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on
Jan. 14. The Tunisian central bank will have “no problem” in
repaying almost $800 million of bonds denominated in euros and
yen maturing this year, Mohamed Salah Souilem, general manager
of external finances for Banque Centrale de Tunisie SA, said in
a faxed response to questions from Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  