-- Ensco to Acquire Rival Driller Pride for $7.3 Billion
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2011-02-07T21:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/ensco-to-buy-pride-for-7-3-billion-forms-no-2-offshore-drilling-company.html
  Ensco Plc , the oil driller with rigs
from  Mexico  to  Indonesia , agreed to acquire  Pride International
Inc . for $7.3 billion in a deal that will create the world’s
second-largest offshore drilling company.  Investors will receive 0.4778 Ensco share and $15.60 in
cash for each Pride share under terms of the agreement announced
today by London-based Ensco in a statement. The $41.60 a share
offer is a 21 percent premium to Houston-based Pride’s Feb. 4
closing price.  The Pride acquisition will expand Ensco’s presence to
Brazil and West Africa, two of the fastest-growing offshore
drilling markets in the $125 billion industry, said  Brian Uhlmer , an analyst at Global Hunter Securities LLC in Houston.
Ensco’s presence in  Brazil  will jump from one rig to 10 as a
result of the Pride agreement.  “Ensco’s been trying to break into Brazil for a long time
but they had no bodies on the ground, so from that perspective
this deal makes a lot of sense,” Uhlmer said today in a
telephone interview. “Secondarily, they’re gaining exposure to
West Africa, where they haven’t had a good floating presence.”  The acquisition is Ensco Chief Executive Officer Dan Rabun’s first since a failed bid in May to take control of
Bermuda-based driller  Scorpion Offshore Ltd . The purchase will
be Ensco’s largest and is the second-biggest acquisition of a
U.S. oil services company in the last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In August, Schlumberger Ltd. acquired
Smith International Inc. for $9.63 billion.  Cutting Costs  The combination will cut at least $50 million in pretax
operating costs and immediately add to earnings, Ensco said.
Ensco’s fleet of offshore drilling vessels will add expand its
fleet by more than 60 percent to 74 rigs, including 21 capable
of operating in seas of 4,500 feet (1,372 meters) or deeper.  Rabun will remain CEO and Chief Financial Officer James W. Swent also will continue in his current post. The rest of the
management team will be announced at a later date and will
include Pride executives, Ensco said.  The deal will boost Ensco’s backlog of unfilled orders to
$10 billion, the company said in the statement. Ensco expects
the deal to close as soon as the second quarter of this year.
Ensco said it won’t cut its 35-cent-a-share quarterly dividend
as a result of the purchase. The deal requires shareholder
approval.  Premium to Deals    Transocean Ltd ., based in Vernier,  Switzerland , is the
world’s largest offshore driller.  Ensco fell $2.28, or 4.2 percent, to $52.13 at 4:00 p.m. in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Pride rose
$5.42, or 16 percent, to $39.80, the largest gain in more than
two years.  The purchase price of $41.60 is a 26 percent premium
compared with Pride’s 20-day moving average. That compares with
a 31 percent premium paid for the 63 U.S. oil services companies
acquisitions announced during the last year. Ensco is paying
17.8 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization for Pride, compared with a median of 11.9 for six
of the announced deals.  Ensco’s lead financial adviser and strategic adviser is
Deutsche Bank AG. Citigroup Inc. also served as a financial
adviser and its legal adviser is Baker & McKenzie LLP. The
financial adviser for Pride is Goldman Sachs & Group Inc. and
its legal advisers are Baker Botts LLP and Wachtell, Lipton,
Rosen & Katz.  Deutsche Bank and Citigroup have committed to finance
incremental debt related to the sale, Ensco said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 