-- Ensco’s Bid on Pride to Spur More Oil Drilling Mergers
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 2011-02-07T21:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/ensco-s-7-3-billion-pride-deal-to-spur-more-mergers-in-drilling-industry.html
  Ensco Plc ’s $7.3 billion agreement to
acquire rival offshore oil driller  Pride International Inc .
probably will accelerate the pace of takeovers in the $125
billion industry, analysts said.  Rowan Cos., a Houston-based operator of shallow-water rigs,
and  DryShips Inc .’s Ocean Rig UDW unit may be the next targets
for drillers eager to expand fleets as the search for offshore
oil and natural-gas fields intensifies, said  Brian Uhlmer , an
analyst at Global Hunter Securities LLC in Houston.  Buying competitors is an alternative path to growth amid a
building boom for deep-water rigs that Barclays Plc analyst
James West said is reducing shipyard space from  South Korea  to  Finland .  “This industry is fairly scattered and consolidating this
and moving forward on a basis of strength rather than
speculation is always a good thing,” said Esa Ikäheimonen,
chief financial officer of  Seadrill Ltd . today in a telephone
interview. Seadrill, based in  Bermuda , hasn’t decided yet
whether to shed its 9.4 percent stake in Pride and use the cash
to pursue other targets, said Ikäheimonen.  Ensco’s stock-and-cash offer will exchange 0.4778 Ensco
share and $15.60 in cash for each Pride share under terms of the
agreement announced today in a statement. The $41.60-a-share
offer is a 21 percent premium to Houston-based Pride’s Feb. 4
closing price.  Access to Markets  Ensco Chief Executive Officer Dan Rabun said the rationale
for acquiring Pride was to gain access to Brazil and West
Africa, two of the world’s richest exploration regions.  Pride’s customers in Brazil, home to the Western
Hemsiphere’s biggest discoveries in three decades, include
state-controlled Petroleo Brasileiro SA and OGX Petroleo e Gas
Participacoes SA, Rabun said today during a conference call with
analysts.  Combining Ensco and Pride “gives us access to markets
where we have not been able to previously address ourselves,”
Rabun said.  Ensco, based in  London , signed its first contract to lease
a rig in  Brazil  last week. By purchasing Pride, Ensco’s
Brazilian rig count will climb to 10. Ensco will have five rigs
in West Africa, where it previously had no presence, according
to a  slide presentation  posted on the company’s website today.  “Ensco’s been trying to break into Brazil for a long time
but they had no bodies on the ground, so from that perspective
this deal makes a lot of sense,” Uhlmer said today in a
telephone interview. “Secondarily, they’re gaining exposure to
West Africa, where they haven’t had a good floating presence.”  Acquiring a Rival  Rabun’s last attempt to acquire a rival crumbled last year
when a bid to buy a 19 percent stake in Bermuda-based  Scorpion
Offshore Ltd . failed. At the time, Rabun indicated the offer was
a stepping stone to an eventual takeover of Scorpion, which is
now part of Seadrill.  The Pride purchase will be Ensco’s largest and is the
second-biggest acquisition of a U.S. oil services company in the
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In August,
Schlumberger Ltd. acquired Smith International Inc. for $9.63
billion.  “We view this transaction favorably for Ensco and the
offshore drilling market as a whole,” Omar Nokta, head of
maritime research at Dahlman Rose & Co., said today in a note to
clients.  Ensco fell $2.28, or 4.2 percent, to $52.13 at 4:00 p.m. in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Pride rose
$5.42, or 16 percent, to $39.80, the largest gain in more than
two years.  Intraday Increases  Rowan, based in Houston, rose $1.19, or 3.3 percent, to
$37.77 at 4:00 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. Earlier, the stock reached $39 for the biggest intraday
increase since Sept. 1.  Dryships, an Athens-based tanker owner that trades on the
Nasdaq Stock Market, rose 4 cents to $5.05. In December, the
company raised about $500 million by selling a stake in Ocean
Rig in a private placement. Dryships said in a Dec. 3 statement
that it intends to retain 80 percent ownership of the drilling
business.  As a result of the transaction, Ensco’s reliance on
shallow-water rigs, which command lower rates than more-
sophisticated mid- and deep-water vessels, will shrink to 43
percent of sales from 72 percent, according to the slide
presentation.  Shallow vs. Deep-water  Ensco’s fleet will expand by more than 60 percent to 74
rigs, including 21 capable of operating in seas of 4,500 feet
(1,372 meters) or deeper. Rabun said on today’s call that he
sees no need to sell any vessels to help finance the
acquisition.  The Ensco-Pride agreement includes a $260 million break-up
fee, Rabun said.    Transocean Ltd ., based in Vernier,  Switzerland , is the
world’s largest offshore driller.  The purchase price of $41.60 a share is a 26 percent
premium compared with Pride’s 20-day moving average. That
compares with a 31 percent premium paid for the 63 U.S. oil
services companies acquisitions announced during the last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 