-- EPA Tops List of Business Complaints to Congress
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2011-02-07T12:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/epa-rules-top-list-of-business-complaints-to-issa-committee.html
American businesses have a common
enemy: the U.S.  Environmental Protection Agency .  ConocoPhillips,  Boeing Co . and the  National Association of
Manufacturers  are among 201 companies and industry groups that
responded to Representative  Darrell Issa ’s request to identify
government rules his U.S. House  Oversight and Government Reform
Committee  should investigate. Of the 111 regulations they cited,
57 were issued by the EPA.  Rules to tighten ozone standards would “have far-reaching
effects on the economy and jobs,” ConocoPhillips, the third-
largest U.S. oil company, said in a list of more than two-dozen
rules. Refinery projects are being delayed because of
“prolonged uncertainty on emission-control technologies and
work practice requirements,” said the Houston-based company,
whose shares are up almost 49 percent over the last year.  Issa, who became chairman of the committee last month,
plans today to release a report based on the letters he
requested in December. According to copies obtained by
Bloomberg, among the rules they complained about were pesticide
permits, air-pollution standards, the Wall Street regulatory
overhaul and a proposed Energy Department rule that aims to
conserve water by restricting use of multi-head  shower  fixtures.  Last month, President  Barack Obama  signed an executive
order calling for a government-wide review of regulations. Issa,
who has accused the administration of ignoring business
concerns, said in an e-mail last week he isn’t offering
“judgments or recommendations.”  ‘Broader Discussion’  The effort is “meant to complement what the president has
ordered and should be a starting point for a broader
discussion,” said Issa, 57, a California Republican.  Democrats and consumer-advocacy groups say they are
troubled that Issa didn’t ask consumer groups about the benefits
of regulations, in particular those regarding air quality or
food and product safety.  “Mr. Issa says we’re just interested in finding out which
regulations are problematic for business, but they’re not
interested in finding out how they help save Americans’ lives
and health,” said Melanie Sloan, executive director of  Citizens
for Responsibility and Ethics  in Washington.  Issa spokesman  Kurt Bardella  said the committee has asked
on a website it created for input on where Washington “helps or
hurts” with regard to regulations.  SEC Requirement  As part of Republicans’ focus on how government rules
affect businesses, the House will consider a resolution Feb. 10
instructing 10 committees -- including Agriculture, Financial
Services and Judiciary -- to investigate regulations that may
impede job growth. Issa’s panel plans a hearing the same day on
“regulatory impediments to  job creation .”  Most of the letters to Issa’s committee were from trade
associations like the National Mining Association and the  Business Roundtable . They listed proposed regulations as well as
those now in effect.  Boeing, based in  Chicago , provided pages of details about
the effects of rules such as a Securities and Exchange
Commission requirement that companies report whether certain
minerals used in their products were mined in the Democratic
Republic of Congo or adjoining countries.  “These requirements will be extremely burdensome and
costly, if not impossible, for a company like Boeing to comply
with,” wrote Tim Keating, senior vice president of government
operations at Boeing, whose shares have risen 20 percent over
the last 12 months.  ‘Major’ New Regulations  Robert E. Murray, president of privately held Murray Energy
Corp. in Alledonia,  Ohio , said the domestic coal industry might
be harmed by EPA rules to limit  greenhouse gases , flaws in  Clean
Water Act  permits, and a proposed ruling on coal ash.  “It is a disaster to see our jobs eliminated in the coal
mines for little or no environmental benefit,” Murray wrote.  Issa’s letter to the companies and trade groups said that
in fiscal 2010 federal agencies created 43 “major” new
regulations at an estimated cost of $28 billion.  More than 50 of those responding, mostly trade groups and
companies like Toyota Motor North America and  ConocoPhillips ,
cited concerns about rules to limit greenhouse-gas emissions.
EPA rules limiting  carbon emissions  from  power plants  and oil
refineries took effect Jan. 2 after Congress failed to agree on
a plan to cap greenhouse gases blamed for  climate change .  Thomas Lehner, vice president of government and industry
affairs for Toyota Motor North America, cited the potential for
an “unworkable patchwork of regulations” if state-level
greenhouse-gas rules take effect.  Trade Associations  A group of 20 trade associations, including the U.S.
 Chamber of Commerce  and the Real Estate Roundtable, targeted
rules intended to prevent lead contamination during renovation
and painting projects on homes, child-care facilities and
schools built before 1978.  “That’s where they could really find themselves in big
trouble,” said Sloan. “All of a sudden you’re causing every
parent in America consternation.”  Bardella said Issa is not making any recommendations at
this time and that he is not expecting anything related to
“legitimate safety” to be repealed.  ‘The Job Aspect’  William Kovacs, Chamber of Commerce senior vice president,
said it’s hard to find workers who are trained on how to avoid
lead contamination because such training isn’t widely available.
“We tried to focus on the job aspect,” he said.  The chamber’s 10-page list said EPA proposals to crack down
on hazards from industrial boilers, lead paint and coal ash are
examples of the agency “attempting to modify, re-issue or re-
interpret virtually every controversial environmental regulatory
decision of the past decade.”  The Transportation Department’s  proposal  to reduce long-
haul truckers’ driving shifts from 11 hours to 10 drew the ire
of the  National Association of Manufacturers , the  Grocery
Manufacturers Association  and the group representing small
fleets, the Owner-Operator Independent Drivers Association.  The department’s scientific data to justify the rulemaking
as a safety initiative “isn’t strong,” so it is instead
engaging in “public commentary on poor truck driver health,”
the manufacturers’ association said, adding that 80 percent of
U.S. freight moves by truck. The regulation would cost industry
$2 billion, NAM said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  