-- Merkel's Party Gains in Poll Before Key Baden-Wuerttemberg State Election
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2011-02-07T09:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/merkel-s-party-gains-in-poll-before-key-baden-wuerttemberg-state-election.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s  Christian
Democratic Union  may be able to stay in power in the state of
Baden-Wuerttemberg with its Free Democratic Party coalition
partner, a poll commissioned by ZDF television  indicated .  Seven weeks before elections in the southwestern state,
home to companies including Daimler AG, Porsche SE and  Robert
Bosch GmbH , support for the CDU rose 2 percentage points from a
previous poll in November to 41 percent, while the FDP’s backing
increased 1 point to 6 percent. The Greens lost 1 point to 25
percent support, the Social Democrats held at 19 percent and the
anti-capitalist Left party was unchanged at 4 percent backing.  “It’s a fateful election” on March 27, Baden-Wuerttemberg
Prime Minister Stefan Mappus, who’s running for re-election as
CDU leader,  said  in today’s edition of Die Welt newspaper. “It
would be a complete paradigm shift that would have significant
repercussions on Berlin” if power in his state switched to the
pro-environment Greens, he said.  While Merkel’s coalition of CDU,  Christian Social Union  and
FDP still has a majority in the lower house of the national
parliament, the Bundestag, it’s lost control of the Bundesrat,
the upper chamber in which the 16 states are represented, making
it more difficult for her to push through policy initiatives.  In neighboring Rhineland-Palatinate, where an election will
be held on the same day, Social Democrat Prime Minister Kurt Beck may be forced into a coalition to stay in power, a separate
ZDF poll showed. Support was at 37 percent for Beck’s SPD, 35
percent for the CDU, 13 percent for the Greens, 5 percent for
the FDP and 4 percent for the Left party, according to ZDF.  The polls were conducted between Jan. 31 and Feb. 2 and had
a margin of error of as much as 3 percentage points, ZDF said.
Mannheim-based FG Wahlen interviewed 1,146 people in Baden-
Wuerttemberg and 1,060 in Rhineland-Palatinate for the TV
channel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  