-- EU Shouldn’t Impose Blanket Transparency Rules, U.K. Funds Say
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2011-02-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/eu-shouldn-t-impose-blanket-transparency-rules-u-k-funds-say.html
European Union regulators reviewing
the laws that govern securities trading should ensure they are
“specific to each instrument” and not impose blanket rules
across asset classes, the U.K.’s Investment Management
Association said.  Responding to the EU’s review of Markets in Financial
Instruments Directive, or Mifid,  London-based IMA , which
represents the 3.4 trillion-pound ($5.5 trillion) U.K. fund
management industry and whose members include Goldman Sachs
Asset Management International and Aberdeen Asset Management,
said regulators must consider each market separately when
imposing rules on pre and post-trade transparency or disclosure.  “We understand why the Commission wishes to draw up a
comprehensive framework,” Guy Sears, Director of Wholesale at
the IMA, said in an e-mail. “However, detailed rules which fail
to take account of the specificities of different instruments
and trading conventions will not achieve this aim. Rules for
non-equity markets should be specific to each instrument and
should not necessarily be modeled on equity markets.”  Mifid came into effect three years ago with the aim of
improving the competitiveness of the EU by creating a more
harmonized financial market, stirring competition and driving
down the costs of capital for companies and trading for
investors. Regulators are now reviewing the laws to improve them
and comments on the review had to be submitted last week. Any
plans in the Mifid review must be approved by national
governments and the European Parliament to become law.  In November last year, Kay Swinburne, a member of the
European Parliament, said she asked  Europe ’s Financial Services
Commissioner  Michel Barnier  to consider separating the Mifid
review into three stages to take into account the complexities
of dealing with different asset classes.  Regulators should also improve the quality of post-trade
data, the IMA said, adding the Commission should ensure it has
the power to introduce a consolidated tape, or a single source
for transaction information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 