-- Euro Declines as Weaker-Than-Forecast Factory Report Spurs Economy Concern
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2011-02-07T14:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/euro-declines-as-weaker-than-forecast-factory-report-spurs-economy-concern.html
The euro slid for a fourth day versus
the dollar as data showed German factory orders fell more than
analysts forecast in December, while U.S. reports this week are
forecast to indicate the nation’s recovery is gaining strength.  The 17-nation shared currency erased earlier gains versus
the yen after the Economy Ministry in Berlin reported factory
orders dropped 3.4 percent from November. The pound rose against
all of its 16 most-traded counterparts on speculation the Bank
of England will be forced to raise interest rates to contain
inflation. Norway’s krone weakened as crude oil fell and
manufacturing in December was less than expected.  “We’re used to some fairly disappointing data coming from
the periphery, and it has been the core that has been holding
Europe up and driving growth,” said  Ian Stannard , a senior
currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “The fact that
we are seeing weaker data at the core of  Europe  as well is a
worrying sign for the euro.”  The euro dropped 0.4 percent to $1.3521 at 9:20 a.m. in  New
York , the weakest since Jan. 21, after rising earlier to
$1.3627. The single currency fell 0.3 percent to 111.33 yen,
from 111.62 yen on Feb. 4. The dollar strengthened 0.2 percent
to 82.31 yen, from 82.18.  The MSCI World Index gained 0.2 percent, and futures on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent. Copper climbed to
records in London and New York as investors speculated a U.S.
economic recovery is under way.  U.S.  Consumer Credit   A report today is forecast to show consumer borrowing in
the U.S. rose in December for a third month. Credit climbed by
$2.5 billion after increasing $1.3 billion in November, the  Federal Reserve  will say today in  Washington , according to the
median forecast of 25 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Economists had forecast a 1.5 percent decline in German
factory orders, according to the median of 37 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Norway’s krone was the worst performer against the dollar
as oil futures touched the lowest level in more than a week,
$88.28 a barrel in New York. The currency declined for a fourth
day against the greenback as data showed Norwegian manufacturing
production fell 1 percent in December, compared with a 0.5
percent gain forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The krone weakened 0.5 percent against the dollar to
5.7842, from 5.7558 on Feb. 4.  The pound rose as short-term interest rates increased. The
two-year gilt yield climbed six basis points to 1.58 percent
after reaching 1.63 percent, the most since February 2009. The
implied yield on short-sterling futures contracts for December
2011, which anticipates where short-term  interest rates  will be,
rose five basis points to 1.75 percent as traders added to bets
for higher borrowing costs. The Bank of England’s Monetary
Policy Committee is scheduled to meet on Feb. 10.  ‘Regained Some Ground’  “Sterling regained some ground at the start of the week,
and we would expect further recovery as we move closer to the
February MPC meeting on Thursday and especially the quarterly
inflation report next week,”  Valentin Marinov , a senior
currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London, wrote in a note
to clients.  A report this week is forecast to show U.K. manufacturing
expanded for an eighth month in December. Output rose 0.4
percent after a 0.6 percent gain in November, the  Office for
National Statistics  will say on Feb. 10, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  On the same day, the  Bank of England  is forecast to keep
its bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds ($323 billion) and
leave benchmark rates at a record low 0.5 percent, according to
all 62 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Policy Makers Split  Policy makers split last month.  Martin Weale  joined  Andrew Sentance ’s push to raise the key rate a quarter point to control
prices, while  Adam Posen  continued a drive he started in October
to expand bond purchases to support growth.  The pound strengthened 0.5 percent to 83.94 pence per euro,
and 0.2 percent to 132.60 yen. It was little changed at $1.6118.  The Australian dollar advanced against all its major
counterparts, excluding the pound, as job advertisements in the
nation rose for a ninth month. Jobs advertised in newspapers and
on the Internet climbed 2.4 percent in January from December,
when they increased a revised 1.2 percent,  Australia  & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said in a report released in  Melbourne .  Australia’s currency rose 0.1 percent against the yen to
83.42, from 83.32. It has gained 0.5 percent against the
Japanese currency since the beginning of the year as the global
recovery takes hold, damping demand for the safe-haven appeal of
the yen.  Yen Depreciates  The yen weakened versus the  U.S. dollar , Australian dollar
and the British pound on signs the global economy is picking up.  “While rates everywhere else are likely to go up, people
don’t expect Japanese rates to follow,”  Paul Robson , a senior
foreign exchange strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in  London , said. “The yen has just been caught out by rate spreads
and reviving risk appetite with people looking through some of
the weather distortions on payrolls and seeing that as a
positive for the global environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  