-- Euro Buys Merkel Time as Bund-Treasury Spread at Two-Year High
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2011-02-07T18:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/euro-buys-merkel-time-as-bund-treasury-spread-at-two-year-high.html
The highest yields on German short-
term bonds in two years relative to Treasuries are boosting the
euro, easing pressure on  Chancellor Angela Merkel  as Europe’s
leaders consider expanding a rescue program to end the region’s
debt crisis.  Yields on German two-year notes rose last week to 87 basis
points more than Treasuries of similar maturity, the most since
January 2009, luring investors to higher returns on euro-
denominated assets. Europe’s common currency is up 2.8 percent
from an eight-year low reached on Jan. 10 against a basket of
nine developed-nation peers, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes show.  While a Bloomberg survey last month showed investors
predict at least one nation will leave the currency within five
years and that  Greece  and Ireland will default, traders are
trimming bets the bloc will splinter. Speculators increased
wagers the euro will rise to the highest since October as Merkel
said Feb. 4 there was “broad consensus” on reaching an accord
to boost competitiveness, including debt-limitation rules.  “Merkel is totally on top of this situation, she
understands how much of a benefit the euro has been for  Germany ,” said Pierre Lequeux, London-based head of currency
management at Aviva Investors, which oversees about $370
billion. “The only way they can fend off inflation is by
engineering a stronger euro. As we’re going through the first
quarter the euro will get stronger.”  Record Yields  The euro weakened 10.4 percent last year, the most since
its 1999 start on a correlation-weighted basis, as Ireland and
Greece were forced to seek bailouts. Bond yields show investors
are speculating  Portugal  will be next, while  Spain  struggles to
recover from a burst property bubble and trim its 20 percent
unemployment rate.  Irish, Portuguese and Spanish yields rose to euro-era highs
relative to German bunds in November even after the 440 billion-
euro ($598 billion) European Financial Stability Facility, or
EFSF, was created to ward off speculators betting on a break-up
of the currency union.  The euro slipped 0.2 percent to $1.3561 at 1:28 p.m. in New
York, and was little changed at 111.75 yen.  The region’s growth has lagged behind the U.S., even as
Germany’s economy expanded 3.6 percent last year, the fastest
pace since data for a reunified Germany began in 1992. Gross
domestic product for the now 17-nation region increased 1.7
percent in 2010, according to the median forecast of 20
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, compared with 2.9 percent for
the U.S.  Europe  will grow 1.6 percent this year, versus 3.1
percent in America, separate surveys show.  March Deadline  The Bloomberg Global Poll of 1,000 investors, analysts and
traders conducted Jan. 21-24 showed Bloomberg customers were
almost evenly divided on whether the euro will eventually
collapse. At the same time, 69 percent of the respondents said
they had a favorable view of Merkel. The survey has a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  European Union leaders meeting in Brussels Feb. 4 set a
March 25 deadline to come up with what the German chancellor
called a “comprehensive” package to address the crisis. The
measures may include stiffer sanctions against budget deficits
higher than 3 percent of GDP, lower  interest rates  on loans and
allowing the EFSF to buy debt directly from member states.  ‘Failure Cataclysmic’  “These things are costly for the German taxpayer and
highly unpopular,” said  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of foreign-
exchange strategy in  Frankfurt  at Commerzbank AG, Germany’s
second-biggest lender, behind Deutsche Bank AG. “It will only
be politically feasible when everyone sees this is the only way
out. The euro crisis will go on and on and this will limit the  European Central Bank ’s room for maneuver.”  Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said they have
the political will to ensure that can’t happen.  “It is of such importance that we will be there whenever
it needs to be defended,” Sarkozy said of the euro in a speech
at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland , on Jan. 27.
“The consequences of a euro failure would be so cataclysmic
that we can’t even entertain the idea.”  Sarkozy and Merkel are seeking a summit of euro-region
leaders for next month to address economic competitiveness as
they stepped up efforts to boost sentiment in their currency.  “The year 2010 was a year of trials for the euro,” Merkel
said at a joint briefing with Sarkozy Feb. 4. “Germany and  France  are firmly committed that 2011 will be the year of new
confidence for the euro.”  Reversal of Fortunes  Demand from traders for contracts protecting against a drop
in the euro against the dollar has fallen by more than 50
percent since June, indicating investors are less concerned the
shared currency will weaken.  The euro-dollar three-month 25-delta risk reversal rate was
at minus 1.62 percentage points today, down from the 3.40
percentage-point level seen on June 4 that preceded the euro’s
tumble to a four-year low of $1.1877 three days later. The rate
measures demand for puts that grant the right to sell the
European currency versus calls to buy it.  Some bears are starting to bet that the euro’s rally will
gain momentum.  FX Concepts LLC, the world’s biggest currency hedge fund,
said on Jan. 27 that the euro may strengthen to the $1.4150,
before weakening again. Three weeks earlier, the  New York  firm’s
chairman,  John Taylor , said it may fall below parity with the
dollar this year.  Inflation Focus  The wider interest-rate gap between Europe and the U.S. led
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. to predict on Feb. 1 that the
euro may see a “temporary move” above $1.40. The bank said it
remains bearish on the currency over a 12-month period.  More stability has allowed European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  to shift his focus from containing the
sovereign crisis to fighting inflation, while Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  keeps borrowing costs near zero and
pumps $600 billion into the financial system by purchasing
Treasuries. Unlike the ECB, whose main goal is keeping prices
stable, the Fed is also charged with spurring employment.  “We continue to see evidence of short-term upward pressure
on overall inflation, mainly owing to energy and commodity
prices,” Trichet said at a press conference in Frankfurt after
keeping ECB’s main refinancing rate at a record low 1 percent on
Feb. 3.  Inflation in the euro region accelerated to a two-year high
of 2.4 percent in January, data from the EU’s statistics office
in Luxembourg showed Jan. 31. The annual rate in the U.S. rose
to 1.5 percent in December from 1.1 percent a month earlier.  ‘Genie Is Out’  German debt yields are higher than equivalent U.S.
securities for all maturities through five years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Two-year German yields rose from a
record low 0.427 percent on May 20, less than two weeks after
the EFSF was created in the wake of the Greek bailout.  “The genie is out of the bottle and the ECB is on the path
to hiking,” said  Richard Benson , a London-based executive
director at Millennium Asset Management, who oversees $14
billion of currency funds. “Interest-rate differentials are the
overwhelming driver for currencies. There has been a very
substantial repricing in the front end of Europe, a colossal
move that supports the currency.”  Long Positions Rise    Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased bets that
the euro will strengthen against the dollar for a third week,
data from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on an advance in the euro compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 39,934 on Feb. 1,
compared with 22,901 a week earlier and the most since 40,505 in
the period ended Oct. 26.  “The underlying desire of the ECB to get on with
normalizing policy is positive for euro-dollar,” said Kit Juckes, London-based head of foreign-exchange research at
Societe Generale SA. “The Fed doesn’t want to raise rates
unless it has to and the ECB would like to get a window of
opportunity to hike. The U.S. wins the contest of who has got
the weakest currency.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  