-- Hewlett-Packard Unveils Reclining PC to Battle IPad
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2011-02-08T00:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/hewlett-packard-unveils-reclining-desktop-computer-to-battle-ipad-tablets.html
  Hewlett-Packard Co ., the largest
maker of personal computers, unveiled a redesigned touch-screen
desktop that can tilt back, to discourage business customers
from switching to  Apple Inc .’s iPad and other tablet computers.  The TouchSmart 9300 Elite, which houses all of its
electronics behind a 23-inch screen, can recline to a 60-degree
angle, said Randall Martin, a chief design strategist at  Palo
Alto , California-based HP.  The desktop computer can become almost flush with the
tabletop, making it easier for people to gather around and
engage with the touch-sensitive screen. HP is adapting the
consumer version of the  TouchSmart  to be more useful for
retailers, hotels, health-care workers and other businesses that
interact with customers, Martin said at a technology
demonstration in San Francisco last week.  “Their initial thought with the TouchSmart was that it
would be a great consumer product, but there has been great
interest in this in retail, hotel services and things of that
nature,” said  Tim Bajarin , president of technology consulting
firm Creative Strategies Inc. “They’re figuring out ways to
enhance the experience for both markets.”  The TouchSmart Elite, designed for businesses, will be on
sale in May. The price has not yet been announced. A consumer
version of the reclining TouchSmart starts at $900.  PC Shipments  Makers of desktop PCs increasingly are competing with
Cupertino, California-based Apple and other tablet-computer
designers for business customers. Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz
said in October it was distributing iPads to its 355 U.S.
dealers for customers to sign documents on the screen and for
sales representatives to order on-the-spot financing options
from showroom floors.  Global personal computer shipments rose 2.7 percent in the
fourth quarter, missing projections, as consumers held back on
holiday purchases and chose iPads over desktops and notebooks,
market researcher IDC said last month.  HP retained the industry’s top spot, even as its market
share dropped 0.7 percentage point to 19.5 percent from a year
earlier.  Dell Inc . was second with 12.1 percent, followed by
Acer Inc. with 10.6 percent.  HP’s new product will let businesses customize its options
and provide greater security, the company said. Customers can
opt to automatically encrypt its hard drive, or disable USB
ports and Webcams.  Tablets Surpass PCs  With combined smartphone and tablet sales expected to
surpass a Deloitte  forecast  of 400 million personal computers
sold this year, HP is trying to make it easier for its computers
to share movies, music and other content across networks. The
company adapted virtual private network technology used in its
business workstation products to move such content from netbooks
and laptops to new consumer models of the TouchSmart.  HP engineers are working on extending the service to
smartphones, tablets and other products based on the WebOS
operating system it acquired from Palm Inc. last year, said HP
experience software development manager Paul Rygaard.  The company scheduled a Feb. 9 event to unveil new WebOS
tablets and smartphones.  The product introductions come as HP, Dell, and other
computer makers are making provisions to deal with a flaw in  Intel Corp . chips that was revealed on Jan. 31.  Malfunctioning Chips  HP said it stopped making PCs with the malfunctioning chips
and put a hold on shipping affected inventory. It also canceled
a presentation to journalists on new business notebook computers
that was scheduled for Feb. 10. The flaw doesn’t affect the
TouchSmart desktops and notebooks announced this week, the
company said.  Dell said the Intel flaw affects four products sold under
its XPS, Vostro and Alienware brands, and that it’s working
directly with customers who’ve bought affected machines. The
fault is in a support chip, or chipset, for Intel’s latest
processor model called Sandy Bridge, unveiled last month.  HP rose 71 cents to $48.14 on the New York Stock Exchange
today. The shares fell 18 percent last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Clifford Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  