-- Texas Instruments’ OMAP 5 Chip Coming Later This Year
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2011-02-07T21:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/texas-instruments-says-new-omap-processor-coming-in-second-half.html
  Texas Instruments Inc ., aiming to
fend off a challenge from  Qualcomm Inc . and  Nvidia Corp . in the
market for mobile-phone chips, said it will release a more
powerful version of its OMAP processor in the second half.  The OMAP 5 chip will power phones and tablet computers
capable of running personal-computer programs, Dallas-based
Texas Instruments said in a statement today. The new processors,
which will support three-dimensional graphics, will be released
later this year and go on sale in phones and other devices in
2012, the company said.  Texas Instruments’ OMAP line of chips once dominated the
market for so-called applications processors, chips that run the
operating system and advanced functions in mobile phones. Now,
Qualcomm, Nvidia, Marvell Technology Group and  Intel Corp . are
joining the race for orders for chips that run devices competing
with  Apple Inc .’s iPhone and iPad.  The company will be the first in the market with the latest
generation of chip design from ARM Holdings Plc, the Cortex A-15
processor, said Remi El-Ouazzane, a general manager of Texas
Instruments’ OMAP Platform Group.  “We expect to have a real time-to-market advantage,” he
said. “We look at our road map as being the leading-edge road
map in the industry.”  The new OMAP will have two of the A-15 processors and
additional smaller processors for functions including sound and
video processing all built into the one piece of silicon. That
will enable it to deliver three times the performance of its
predecessor and use 60 percent less power, he said.  Texas Instruments fell 18 cents to $35.26 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained
8.5 percent this year.  The chipmaker lost the top spot in the overall market for
mobile semiconductors to Qualcomm, which leads in sales of chips
that control radio functions in handsets. Texas Instruments is
exiting that business to focus on applications chips.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  