-- Favre Shadow Disappears as Rodgers Wins Title: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2011-02-07T13:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/favre-s-shadow-fades-as-rodgers-gets-title-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
The 21-yard touchdown toss to Greg Jennings looked and felt oh-so familiar, so retro, didn’t it?  It was one of those hold-your-breath, squint-your-eyes and
grit-your-teeth darts down the middle, the one that, an inch
this way, an inch that way, and the post-game conversation very
well might’ve centered on goat and gaffe instead of gutsy and
great.  But  Aaron Rodgers  let it fly. The kid from Cal cocked his
right arm and did his best Brett Favre. Rodgers didn’t do
cautious. Not even in the Super Bowl, which was ballyhooed as a
referendum on whether the Packers did the right thing three
seasons ago, when management against an aging gunslinger’s
wishes said farewell to Favre and gave the promising kid a
chance to ditch the clipboard. That was the risk. Last night
came the reward.  Rodgers led the Packers to their first Super Bowl title
since you know who in 1997, doing just enough to outscore the
mistake-prone Steelers, 31-25, in front of more than 103,000
spectators at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington,  Texas .  Fittingly, the game ended with the ball in the hands of
Rodgers, who was named the Most Valuable Player after completing
24-of-39 passes for 304 yards and three touchdowns. Favre won
exactly one Super Bowl for the folks of  Green Bay , a team owned
by faithful fans that drive on snowy thoroughfares named for
their football heroes.  These Packers have a strong nucleus led by a quarterback
who’ll never have to answer another Favre-related query. Never
again.  ‘Showed His Mettle’  Players and coaches from both teams were asked about
Rodgers. Professionals understand pressure. And they recognize
and respect when a player erases doubts, fulfills potential and
stakes his claim.  “He showed his mettle,” Steelers coach Mike Tomlin said.
“I tip my hat to him for that.”  Bart Starr.  Brett Favre . Aaron Rodgers. Yes, the kid
belongs.  “It’s a dream come true,” said Rodgers, who clutched the,
yup, Vince Lombardi Trophy in one arm and a wrestling-type belt
in the other. “It’s what I dreamt about as a little kid
watching Joe  Montana  and Steve Young.”  Perfect.  It was Young who sat on the bench behind Montana, the
legend. It was the promise of Young that forced the hero out. It
was Young who won it all, cementing his stature as one of the
game’s best quarterbacks.  Monkey Gone  It was Young who, after winning his first Super Bowl, could
be seen talking about the monkey no longer residing on his back.
The 49ers were his.  These Packers now belong to Rodgers, who time and again put
the passes right where they needed to be. Pinpoint. Like, say,
the 31-yard, third-and-10 toss to Jennings that kept the chains
moving, the clock ticking and, ultimately, put another three
points on the scoreboard in the fourth quarter.  “Huge,” Jennings said.  Even Tomlin felt compelled to comment.  “That ball down the middle of the field to Jennings,” he
said, his eyes going wide, “that’s big time.”  It’s the kind of superlative the football cognoscenti used
to lob at Favre, who, it’s worth noting, didn’t reach out to his
former understudy in the weeks leading up to the Super Bowl. No
good luck. No atta boy. Nothing. And we all know that he’s
familiar with text messaging.  Roethlisberger Errors  Unlike Rodgers, who committed no miscues, Steelers
quarterback  Ben Roethlisberger  tossed a pair of interceptions,
including one that was returned for a touchdown. Hard to win
that way.  In all, there were three Pittsburgh turnovers, including a
fourth-quarter fumble by running back  Rashard Mendenhall  that
halted a Steelers drive in which they could’ve taken the lead.  There’s a tendency in all sports to focus solely on the
superstars. Football is a team game, though. Packers Charles Woodson, Donald Driver and Sam Shields got hurt last night.
Others performed.  Jordy Nelson, for instance, a walk-on at Kansas State -- on
defense, no less -- caught nine passes for 140 yards and a
touchdown. Rodgers threw. He caught. Again and again.  “You always dream big,” Nelson said.  Rodgers got a ride on the shoulders of his teammates. The
ultimate honor, really. They more than anyone know what Rodgers
has had to endure, the burden of replacing a legend.  Favre Questions  Packers’ executives spent much of  Super Bowl  week answering
questions about their former quarterback. Oh, how that tiny town
loved No. 4, his howitzer, reckless abandon and childlike
enthusiasm for the game.  Nobody, team President Mark Murphy said, wants to be known
as the one that traded Favre. Except, it now seems, if the
addendum states that it was to make room for Rodgers.  Back in 2005, when the Packers drafted a promising
quarterback and asked him to sit, watch, listen and learn,
Rodgers told them they wouldn’t be sorry. In 2008, when the team
was his, Rodgers promised to repay management’s trust.  “He’s pretty special,” General Manager Ted Thompson said
last night of his 27-year-old quarterback. “Even though he’s
done so much, he’s still just kind of getting started.”  Favre, meantime, is finished.    Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in Arlington, Texas,
at   ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  