-- Evergreen Rises on Lure of $100 Billion China-India Trade: Freight Markets
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m ,   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2011-02-07T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/fedex-maersk-add-shipping-routes-for-china-india-prize-freight-markets.html
China and India, which first traded
with each other more than 2,000 years ago on the Silk Road, are
luring companies from  FedEx Corp . to Evergreen Marine Corp. with
a potential 62 percent increase in bilateral trade by 2015.  FedEx began flying a cargo route five times a week between
Guangzhou and  Mumbai  last month, while shipping lines Evergreen
Marine, A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, China Cosco Holdings Co. and  Orient Overseas International Ltd . have added capacity or seen
traffic increase in the past year as the leaders of the world’s
two fastest-growing major economies pledge to boost commerce to
$100 billion.  “The potential is huge in the long run, as we are talking
about trade between the world’s two most populous countries,”
said Arthur Kwong, a Hong Kong-based fund manager at BNP Paribas
Investment who oversees about $800 million in Asian assets,
including shares in container shipping lines. Increased trade
will boost shipping and capital goods industries, he said,
without divulging his stock holdings.  Commerce between the nations has jumped 20-fold in a decade
to $61.8 billion as they seek to revive ties that first
flourished with the exchange of gems, fabrics and ivory.  China 
and India, which went to war over a disputed Himalayan border in
1962, began direct flights in 2002 and agreed in December to
spur bilateral trade that includes commodities, pharmaceuticals
and electronics.  “I believe this trade route will emerge as the most
important trade line in the world,” said Taarek Hinedi,
managing director of Indian operations in  New Delhi  at FedEx
Express, a unit of the largest cargo-airline operator. “With
the new flight, we seek to capitalize on the phenomenal
potential and grow with the two economic giants.”  Container Ships  Evergreen Marine,  Taiwan ’s largest container-shipping line,
and  Simatech Shipping LLC  of Dubai jointly started a route last
month between China’s Xingang Port and Nhava Sheva port near
Mumbai on the Indian west coast. The six container ships the
companies are deploying will also stop in Karachi and Colombo.  Taipei-based  Evergreen Marine ’s shares rose last month to
the highest level since April 2008. The shares traded on Jan. 28
at an estimated price-to-earnings ratio of about 6.6 times, less
than the 13.5 times for the 730 companies on Taiwan’s Taiex
Index. Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s analysts
have a “buy” recommendation on Evergreen’s stock.  Orient Overseas, Hong Kong’s largest container-shipping
line, also may benefit from the rising trade ties between the
two Asian nations, said Jimmy Lam, a transport analyst at Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets in  Hong Kong . Lam has a “buy”
recommendation on Hong Kong-based Orient Overseas.  Gems and Textiles  FedEx carries electrical and mechanical equipment, gems,
raw materials, textiles, pharmaceuticals and agricultural goods
on its China-India flights. In addition to the latest Guangzhou-
Mumbai-New Delhi route, which increased weekly capacity between
the two countries by 160 metric tons, the company has had direct
flights connecting  Shanghai  and New Delhi since 2005.  DHL Global Forwarding, a unit of Deutsche Post DHL,
transports cargo daily between Shanghai and the Indian cities of
Madras, Mumbai and New Delhi through its partnerships with
various commercial airlines, said Li Wenjun, air-freight
director for its China operations.  United Parcel Service Inc .
declined to comment on its operations between the two countries.  A flight between Guangzhou and Mumbai takes about 6 1/2
hours, while a container ship can take about two weeks to reach
an Indian port from a Chinese one, including stopovers in  Singapore  and  Malaysia  as it travels through the Malacca Strait.  Air, Sea  In contrast to sea and air links, trade by land between
China and India, each with a population of more than 1.2 billion
people, is nascent. It was only in 2006 that the neighbors
reopened the 4,545-meter-high Nathula Pass across the Himalayas,
a trade route that had been closed since the 1962 border war.    India  and China have had a 2,000-year history of trade
engagement and this is a relationship that will get stronger and
stronger,” said Amitendu Palit, a visiting senior research
fellow at the  Institute of South Asian Studies  in Singapore who
worked at the Indian  finance ministry  for a decade. “What we
need are more direct trade linkages, whether it is by land, sea
or air.”  While trade relations are improving, Premier Wen Jiabao and
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh at a meeting in December avoided
giving details on how they will resolve disputed areas of their
4,200-kilometer (2,600-mile) Himalayan border.  Dalai Lama  India has protested a recent Chinese practice of refusing
to stamp visas into the passports of people living in the
Indian-administered part of Kashmir. China opposes the Tibetan
spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, who campaigns for Tibetan
autonomy and human rights from exile in northern India.  While companies are adding capacity to their routes, they
say they carry more cargo to India than they do away from the
South Asian nation.  The volume of cargo transported to India by China Cosco,  Asia ’s largest shipping line by market value, is more than
double that of the return trip, when its vessels carry cotton,
textiles, iron and steel products, machinery parts, leather,
seafood and fruit. The route currently accounts for less than 1
percent of China Cosco’s sales.  “China still relies on iron-ore imports from India for its
steel industry,” said Hong Kong-based Patrick Ho, who helps
manage the $13.7-million BNP Paribas China-India Fund. “As a
result, the dry bulk shipping industry is benefiting from its
growth. From China, India imports capital goods, which they need
most for their upcoming infrastructure spending in electricity
and toll roads.”  Bigger Gainers  Chinese companies have been bigger gainers in the bilateral
trade relations so far, with $40.9 billion of exports to India
in 2010 versus $20.8 billion of imports, according to the
Beijing-based Customs General Administration. China is India’s
biggest trading partner while India is China’s ninth-largest,
according to the Chinese foreign ministry, trailing markets led
by the U.S. and Japan.  China’s trade surplus over India was $20.1 billion in 2010,
widening from about $16 billion a year earlier.  “In the past few years, India’s trade-deficit problem with
China has been exacerbating,” said Hu Yifan, chief economist at
CITIC Securities Co. in Hong Kong. “India complains about
barriers to its higher-value exports such as pharmaceutical and
telecoms products to China. On the other hand, China is unhappy
about India’s stringent regulations in sourcing power and
telecommunications equipment.”  More Access  Wen has vowed to respond to India’s request to reduce the
trade imbalance by allowing more access for products from the
South Asian nation, notably pharmaceuticals,  information
technology  and agricultural goods. Wen and Singh also pledged to
increase investment and bank access in each other’s economies.  Indian billionaire Anil Ambani’s  Reliance Communications
Ltd . is buying phone equipment from  ZTE Corp . and Huawei
Technologies Co. after India’s government allowed Chinese
vendors to supply phone companies in July, subject to security
inspections. Both ZTE and Huawei are based in Shenzhen.  Chinese companies signed $16 billion of deals with Indian
businesses during Wen’s three-day visit to New Delhi in
December. Ahmedabad-based  Adani Power Ltd . placed orders for
$3.6 billion of equipment with Chinese companies, while Mumbai-
based  SRM Energy Ltd . gave $1.4 billion of contracts.  Joint Route  Marseille, France-based CMA CGM SA, the world’s third-
biggest container shipping company, and Maersk, based in
Copenhagen,  jointly started  a route in June that linked Chinese
and Indian ports with six vessels of 5,500 20-foot equivalent
units each.  Soren Karas, head of South China at Maersk Hong Kong Ltd.,
a unit of the world’s largest container-shipping line, said
cargo trade between China and India may grow 20 percent this
year, more than the 8 percent rate he predicts globally.  In September, Maersk, which has more than 100 offices in
China and India, began a new route between China and east India,
shipping mostly consumer products, including electronics and
auto parts, from Shanghai to Chennai with vessels of about 3,000
20-foot equivalent units each.  “We need to increase the size of those ships in future as
we expect growth in this market,” Karas said. “It is an
exciting market that has great potential.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  