-- FIFA Blocks 70 Overseas Trades as Clubs Spend $320 Million During Window
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2011-02-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/fifa-blocks-70-overseas-trades-as-clubs-spend-320-million-during-window.html
FIFA blocked about 70 trades during
last month’s transfer window as an online registration system
became mandatory for clubs buying players from other countries,
an official at soccer’s governing body said.  Many teams wait until the last minute to get better deals
and those that miss the deadline are timed out of registering
trades.  “They’re haggling until the last moment,” Mark Goddard,
general manager of  FIFA’s Transfer Matching System , said in an
interview yesterday. “They can all watch the countdown clock
now and decide at what point they want to pull themselves out of
a nosedive like some Japanese kamikaze plane and get it through.
If they don’t it’s self-inflicted.”  Teams spent $320 million on recruiting 2,451 foreign-based
players in January, he said. A year earlier, 1,200 transfers
were registered through the online system and $243 million
spent. Goddard said “half of the football planet was open for
business,” with 115 member associations trading.  FIFA  doesn’t have jurisdiction over transfers between teams
within individual associations, so the last-day deals that saw
Fernando Torres move to Chelsea from Liverpool for 50 million
pounds ($80.6 million) -- a record between U.K. clubs -- and the
Reds’ capture of Newcastle’s Andy Carroll didn’t need the
authorization. Chelsea was left fretting over its 25 million-
euro ($33.8 million) signing of David Luiz from  Portugal ’s
Benfica.  Luiz Transfer  The Brazilian defender was pulled from a plane en route to  London  in order to get the paperwork completed on time,  Sky
Sports  reported. Goddard said that deal was done two minutes
before the deadline at 11 p.m. U.K. time.  “That was probably the largest one I was most concerned
about,” he said. “I went home and thought ‘There’s no way
that’s going to get through’ and I woke up the next morning and
our Portuguese staff member said, ‘Gee, they pulled it off.’”  Transfers that were blocked are passed to FIFA’s player
status department. If clubs can argue mitigating factors stopped
them from getting international clearance in time the trades can
be registered.  “They’re gonna have to sit tight until that’s handled,”
Goddard said.  Goddard said he was surprised by the scale of business that
took place in January, one of two periods when the majority of
leagues in  Europe  can trade players. He said it may be because
European soccer’s governing body,  UEFA , plans to enact
regulations that seek to limit clubs’ spending in the coming
years.  “This would seem like the idea is to try and make hay
while the sun shines,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  