-- Florida Governor Rick Scott Proposes 2012 Budget With $5 Billion in Cuts
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2011-02-07T21:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/florida-governor-rick-scott-proposes-2012-budget-with-5-billion-in-cuts.html
Florida Governor  Rick Scott  proposed
a 2012 budget that would lower spending by $4.6 billion, or
about 7 percent, the most since at least 2002, as it eliminates
almost 8,700 jobs.  The  budget  would require public employees to contribute 5
percent of their wages to pensions, pare Medicaid spending by
almost $4 billion over two years and renegotiate contracts and
leases to save more than $660 million over two years.  The first-term Republican elected in November faced a
projected deficit of $3.6 billion and campaigned on a promise to
fill the gap with spending reductions while still cutting taxes.
He told a Tea Party rally today that reviewing the budget was
like “going through the attic in an old home.”  “You come across some priceless things you need to
protect, but there are a lot of odd things someone once thought
we needed,” Scott, 58, said at a church in the central Florida
city of Eustis. “Much of it we’ve outgrown. And it just doesn’t
fit anymore.”  The budget cuts 8,681 jobs, or almost 7 percent of the
state workforce. Reductions are concentrated in children and
family-services, which would lose 1,849 positions, and
corrections, which would shrink by 1,690.  The state would save $2.8 billion over two years by
requiring public-sector employees to contribute 5 percent of
their wages to their pensions, the budget says. Florida is one
of five states -- including  Utah ,  Connecticut ,  Tennessee  and  Oregon  -- where employees don’t contribute to their pensions.  Bearing the Cost  “We cannot ask Florida taxpayers, most of whom have no
pension at all, to bear all the costs of pensions for government
employees,” Scott said.  Scott’s budget lowers the business-income  tax rate  to 3
percent from 5.5 percent. It would also cut property taxes by
$1.4 billion over the next two years. Combined, the moves would
cost the state about $4 billion over two years, Scott said.  The spending plan now faces the Florida Legislature, where
both houses are controlled by Republicans.  The budget “reflects our common goal” of closing the
deficit without raising taxes, Representative Denise Grimsley,
chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, said in a
statement. Lawmakers, who have promised they won’t raise taxes,
haven’t committed to tax cuts like Scott did today.  In 2002, the state trimmed $3.7 billion, or 7.1 percent,
from its budget, according to the Legislature’s research office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 