-- Florida's Scott Plans Deficit-Closing Tax-Cutting 2012 Budget Voters Doubt
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2011-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/florida-s-scott-plans-deficit-closing-tax-cutting-2012-budget-voters-doubt.html
  Florida  Governor  Rick Scott  will
propose a fiscal 2012 budget today that closes a $3.6 billion
deficit with lower spending and also cuts taxes by $2 billion, a
feat the state’s voters doubt can be done.  The budget would reduce Florida’s workforce by 5 percent,
lower pension costs by requiring employees to contribute, cut
property levies by 19 percent and shrink the corporate  tax rate 
by 2.5 percentage points, Scott, 58, said in an interview and in
news briefings last week.  The former hospital-chain executive who took office Jan. 4
campaigned on promises to phase out Florida’s 5.5 percent
corporate-profit tax, which brought in  8 percent  of revenue last
fiscal year for a state with no personal-income tax.  “My goal is to make sure we’re the state that everybody
wants to do business in,” Scott, a Republican, said in an
interview on Jan. 29. “We’ll make up for any of these
reductions through an increase in our sales-tax revenue over
time as we start growing quickly again.”  Florida voters by a 2-to-1 margin said in a Feb. 2 survey
by  Quinnipiac University  that it was unlikely the governor could
balance the budget without raising taxes. The skepticism isn’t
limited to Florida. In  Ohio , 58 percent of voters surveyed by
Quinnipiac don’t believe Republican Governor John Kasich’s
similar promise, the pollster said Jan. 19.  “This will be a very very aggressive, activist, business-
friendly budget,” said Dominic M. Calabro, president of  Florida
TaxWatch , a nonprofit researcher supported by businesses,
foundations and individuals.  Compromise Ahead  “The challenge is to cut taxes during the Great Recession
when we have more than a $3 billion budget gap,” he said.
“There will be compromise” with the Legislature.  U.S. states are estimating $125 billion of budget deficits
for fiscal 2012 because tax collections declined by the most on
record during the recession and federal stimulus money ends,
according to the Washington-based  Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities.   Florida’s tax revenue fell 19 percent from fiscal 2006 to
2010, and the state’s unemployment rate was 12 percent in
December, third-highest of any state after Nevada and  California .  Scott’s plans for the budget, which is $70 billion in the
current year, include cutting the workforce by 5 percent to save
$300 million annually. He said he wants to trim the corrections
budget to save $1 billion over seven years by adding
rehabilitation and prevention programs and increasing
efficiencies.  Pension Costs  He would reduce pension costs by $2.8 billion over two
years by having public employees pay 5 percent of their salaries
into retirement programs. Florida is one of only five states,
including  Utah ,  Connecticut ,  Tennessee  and  Oregon , where
employees don’t pay into their pensions.  Scott also said he supports switching from a defined-
benefit pension to a 401(k)-style contribution plan for new
employees.  The governor campaigned on a promise to reduce by $1.8
billion spending on Medicaid, the government health-insurance
program for the poor, partly by shifting some care to private
providers.  Scott’s plan to lower the property tax by 19 percent this
year would cost the general fund an additional $1 billion,
according to a  release from his office .  The budget must pass the Legislature, where both houses are
controlled by Republicans. Their focus will be on eliminating
the deficit before considering tax cuts, said David Bishop, a
spokesman for Senate President Mike Haridopolos, a Republican.  “The first priority is less spending to make up the budget
deficit,” Bishop said in a telephone interview Feb. 4. “When
the Senate has accomplished that goal, then they’ll look at the
tax cuts that the governor is proposing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 