-- Freedom in Mideast Carries Cost We All Might Pay: Kevin Hassett
-- B y   K e v i n   H a s s e t t
-- 2011-02-07T02:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/freer-mideast-carries-price-we-all-might-pay-commentary-by-kevin-hassett.html
For the most part, economic markets
have shrugged while the turmoil in  Egypt  has escalated. If
President  George W. Bush  was right about the long-term impact of
the Iraq War, that might change.  We may all have to share in economic hardship as the price
for a freer world.  There are sound arguments, to be sure, that the economy
will remain calm. On its own, the uprising in Egypt seems
unlikely to cause a spike in oil prices, even if it disrupts
production and transportation, which it hasn’t so far.  Egypt is a relatively unimportant oil producer, accounting
for less than 1 percent of the world supply. If its production
stopped altogether, other nations probably could pick up a good
deal of the slack.  Even the closing of the  Suez Canal  would be a small event
today. Back in 1956, the Suez was shut by the conflict that
ensued after Egypt nationalized the canal. When 40 ships were
sunk, blocking the canal for months, it was an economic calamity
of the first order.  Back then, about 10 percent of the global crude-oil supply
made its way to markets through the canal,  according to  the  International Energy Agency . Today, that number is only about 1
percent.  So the real risk of global economic hardship is that the
popular revolt in Egypt spreads to other nations that account
for a larger share of the world’s oil production. The case for a
contagion of this sort is uncomfortably strong.  Heat Is On  There are already signs that a political epidemic is under
way. Just look at the sequence of events. Tunisia’s president
flees, Egypt erupts in mass demonstrations, Lebanese cabinet
ministers resign, and then thousands take to the streets in
Yemen and Jordan.  Clearly, a fire has begun. Whether it spreads or not
depends on the quality of the tinder in neighboring states, and
the Middle East is home to some of the most oppressive regimes
on the planet.  One metric of political freedom is the Economist
Intelligence Unit’s  Democracy Index , which for 2010 graded 167
nations and territories in categories such as elections and
civil liberties.    Saudi Arabia , a monarchy that outlaws political activity
and still performs brutal public whippings, mutilations and
executions, came out at No. 160, tied with Equatorial Guinea,
making them the seventh-most-authoritarian regimes on Earth.
(The six worst, for the record, are judged to be the Central
African Republic, Myanmar, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Chad and,
at most authoritarian,  North Korea .)  Ample Company  Other key Middle East nations with scores well into the
authoritarian category include  Kuwait  (ranked 114 in democracy),  Algeria  (125), Qatar (137), Yemen (146), the  United Arab
Emirates  (148),  Sudan  (151), Syria (152), and Libya and  Iran 
(tied for 158). Counting Saudi Arabia, these nations account for
30 percent of the world’s oil supply. If even a subset follows
the path of Egypt, then we are looking at a high risk of a
historically unprecedented oil shock.  Which brings us to former President Bush and the eight-year
war in  Iraq , both of which may deserve a kind reevaluation in
light of today’s headlines.  Bush, you’ll recall, cited the promotion of democracy in
the Middle East as one rationale for the U.S. invasion in March
2003 -- less pressing than the search for weapons of mass
destruction, true, but a rationale nonetheless.  ‘Example of Freedom’  “A new regime in Iraq would serve as a dramatic and
inspiring example of freedom for other nations in the region,”
Bush said in a February 2003  speech  at the American Enterprise
Institute’s annual gala.  He envisioned political reform spreading through the region
because “the human heart desires the same good things
everywhere on Earth. In our desire to be safe from brutal and
bullying oppression, human beings are the same. In our desire to
care for our children and give them a better life, we are the
same.”  If Bush’s domino theory proves correct, the world will
ultimately be a much better place. That’s a soothing notion to
keep in mind if the price of democracy is felt at the gas pump.    Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the  American Enterprise Institute , is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  