-- Gannett Call-Option Trades Rise After AOL Buys Huffington Post
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2011-02-07T21:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/gannett-call-option-trades-rise-after-aol-buys-huffington-post.html
Gannett Co. call volume rose to a
four-month high after  AOL Inc . agreed to buy the Huffington Post
today, fueling trading in companies with online news operations.  More than 28,000 calls to buy the stock changed hands as of
4 p.m. in  New York , 15 times the four-week average and eight
times the number of puts to sell. The most-traded contracts were
the July $20 calls, which accounted for about one-quarter of all
call volume and rose 36 percent to 95 cents. McLean, Virginia-
based Gannett gained 2.8 percent to $17.12.  AOL bought Huffington Post for $315 million in an offer
that includes about $300 million in cash, the New York-based
Internet company said in a statement today. The number of unique
visitors at closely held  Huffington Post , which aggregates
articles and publishes its own content, has grown to about 25
million a month since its debut in 2005.  The AOL-Huffington Post deal is “putting a highlight on
valuable content as a driver of audience on the Web,” Doug Arthur, an analyst at Evercore Partners in New York, said.
“There aren’t too many newspaper companies you can trade
anymore. Gannett has a lot of valuable online assets.” Arthur
rates Gannett “overweight.”  Gannett’s implied volatility, the key gauge of option
prices, for at-the-money options expiring in 30 days jumped to
44.49 from its three-year low of 32.8 on Feb. 1.  “All these companies have an online component to them,”
said Robert Kean, a trader and managing director of research
sales at Kern Suslow Securities Inc. in New York. “That online
component just became more valuable, and this buyout will fuel
some speculation."  New York Times    New York Times Co . call volume rose to six times average
and 16 times the number of puts. The most-traded contracts were
the March $12 calls, which accounted for almost four-fifths of
all call volume. The New York-based company jumped 2.7 percent
to $10.90.  Calls give the right to buy 100 shares of a security for a
certain amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the
right to sell. Investors use options to guard against
fluctuations in the price of securities they own, speculate on
share-price moves or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will
rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  