-- Genzyme Says Sanofi Continues to Conduct Due Diligence
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2011-02-07T21:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/genzyme-says-sanofi-continues-due-diligence-for-potential-19-2b-deal.html
  Sanofi-Aventis SA  is still looking at  Genzyme Corp .’s books for a potential $19.2 billion acquisition
of the U.S. biotechnology company.  Sanofi and Genzyme have discussed a price of about $74 a
share plus potential payments tied to the performance of a
Genzyme drug, four people with knowledge of the plan said.  “Sanofi is continuing to conduct due diligence,”  Bo Piela , a spokesman for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme,
said today in a telephone interview. “We have no additional
comment.”  Jean-Marc Podvin, a spokesman for Paris-based Sanofi, said
yesterday that the drugmaker was “continuing to review non-
public information,” and had no further comment.  Acquiring Genzyme, the world’s largest maker of medicines
for rare genetic disorders, would help Sanofi Chief Executive
Officer Chris Viehbacher compensate for revenue losses as some
of Sanofi’s biggest-selling products face competition from
generic versions. Sanofi would gain treatments for Fabry,
Gaucher and Pompe diseases.  “The chatter that Sanofi was finishing last-minute due
diligence isn’t particularly surprising,”  Michael Yee , an
analyst with  RBC Capital Markets , said today in a telephone
interview. “I would still expect something early this week.”  Yee, based in  San Francisco , pointed to Sanofi’s plans to
report financial results on Feb. 9 as a possible guidepost for
the timing of an announcement.  “They might like to complete some agreement before
earnings given that it will be an important part of the recent
developments of what’s going on with the company,” he said.  Genzyme rose 62 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $74.02 at
4:30 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Sanofi
gained 49 cents, or 1 percent, to 50.79 euros in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 