-- German Factory Orders Declined in December After Surge
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2011-02-07T11:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/german-factory-orders-declined-in-december-after-surge-update1-.html
German factory orders fell in
December after jumping five times more than economists expected
in the previous month.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, dropped
3.4 percent from November, when they surged 5.2 percent, the  Economy Ministry  in Berlin said today. Economists forecast a 1.5
percent decline for December, according to the median of 37
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. From a year earlier,
orders climbed 19.7 percent, when adjusted for working days.  “Today’s drop is mainly a reversal of the November
surge,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in
Brussels. “The positive trend is unlikely to reverse. With a
pickup in domestic investment and the strengthening of the  U.S.
economy , German industry should get enough fuel to continue
running smoothly.”  Germany’s recovery has broadened as companies step up
hiring to meet export orders, boosting  consumer spending .
Europe’s largest economy grew 3.6 percent last year, the most in
two decades, and the government forecasts growth of 2.3 percent
this year.  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis may slow the pace of
expansion as nations across the euro region cut spending to rein
in deficits.  The euro fell 0.2 percent against the dollar after today’s
report and traded at $1.3549 at 12:51 a.m. in Frankfurt.  Bulk Orders  Domestic factory orders fell 2.4 percent in December and
foreign orders declined 4.2 percent, driven by an 8.9 percent
slump in demand from outside the euro area, today’s report
showed. Orders for investment goods dropped 6.6 percent after
November’s 8.8 percent gain. Orders for  consumer goods  eased 0.1
percent while sales of basic goods rose 0.6 percent.  “In contrast with the previous month, the number of big-
ticket orders was below average,” the Economy Ministry said in
a statement. “Order developments still point clearly upward and
were more dynamic in the final quarter of the year than in the
third.”  German business confidence rose to a record high in January
on the back of booming exports to Asia.  Luxury carmaker  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  expects
“double-digit” sales growth in  China  this year, Chief
Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said on Feb. 4.  On Feb. 1, Infineon Technologies AG, Europe’s largest
chipmaker, raised its full-year forecast after reporting better-
than-predicted first-quarter profit.  Debt Crisis  At the same time, European governments are pushing through
spending cuts to reduce deficits that ballooned during the
financial crisis. The European Central Bank forecasts growth in
the euro area will slow to 1.4 percent this year from 1.7
percent in 2010.  In addition, Germany is facing higher imported inflation,
as prices for commodities including oil and metal ores rise.
Import prices jumped an annual 12 percent in December, the most
since October 1981.  “Any shock that leads to a slowdown in world trade, such
as a commodity price bubble, would be a problem for German
enterprise,” said  Sylvain Broyer , senior euro-area economist at
Natixis in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  