-- Glaxo Said to Pay More Than $250 Million to Settle Avandia Death Lawsuits
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2011-02-07T17:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/glaxo-said-to-pay-more-than-250-million-to-settle-avandia-death-lawsuits.html
  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  agreed to pay
more than $250 million to resolve about 5,500 claims related to
its  Avandia  diabetes drug and avoid the first trial over claims
it can kill users, two people familiar with the accords said.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, agreed to settle the
lawsuits claiming the drug causes heart attacks and strokes for
an average of at least $46,000 each, said the people, who
declined to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
speak publicly.  The accords included a previously reported settlement of an
undisclosed amount for the family of James Burford, an Avandia
user who died in 2006. The Burford family’s case, filed in
federal court in Philadelphia, was set for trial last week.  “An average of $46,000 per case is a modest price to pay,
in the grand scheme of things,”  Gbola Amusa , an analyst at UBS
AG in London, said in a telephone interview. “If Avandia
definitively had caused heart attacks, Glaxo would have been
forced to pay” as much as $1 million a case, he said.  The cases settled were filed by plaintiffs’ lawyers  Joseph
Zonies  and  Thomas Cartmell . Glaxo was facing about 2,000 suits
alleging the drugmaker hid Avandia’s heart-attack and stroke
risks prior to the settlements, lawyers for former users and the
company said in court hearings. The company already agreed to
pay about $460 million to resolve allegations it didn’t properly
warn doctors and consumers about the medicine’s risks.  European Sales Halted  Mary Anne Rhyne, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Glaxo,
declined to comment on the settlements. Zonies, of Denver, and
Cartmell, of  Kansas City ,  Missouri , didn’t immediately return
calls seeking comment.  The company said Sept. 23 it would stop promoting Avandia
worldwide after regulators said the treatment would be withdrawn
from the market in  Europe  and sales would be limited in the U.S.
because of studies linking the drug to increased risks of heart
attacks.  Avandia sales fell 43 percent to $710 million last year in
the wake of the sales restrictions, the company said. Avandia
was once the world’s best-selling diabetes pill, generating $3
billion in annual sales.  Glaxo said Jan. 17 it’s taking a $3.5 billion charge to
cover expenses linked to investigations and suits over Avandia.
The reserve brings to $6.4 billion the amount the drugmaker has
set aside in the past year for legal costs tied to Avandia.  GlaxoSmithKline officials said today they’ve updated
Avandia’s warning label to include safety restrictions ordered
by federal regulators, who cited studies showing the drug poses
an increased risk of heart attack and stroke for some users.  10,000 Cases  The label now warns users that the drug is only intended
for consumers who can’t control their blood-sugar levels with
other diabetes drugs, according to an e-mailed statement from
the company.  Glaxo officials agreed in July to resolve about 10,000
Avandia cases, which they said was the majority of claims over
the drug at the time.  Publicity about those accords brought in another wave of
suits over the drug, said the people familiar with the
settlement of the Zonies and Cartmell cases.  The lawyers were appointed by U.S. District Judge Cynthia Rufe in Philadelphia to lead a group steering the progress of
more than 1,600 cases consolidated in that court. London-based
Glaxo is facing another 400 claims in state courts across the
country, according to a September court filing.  The Zonies and Cartmell settlement included some cases that
haven’t yet been filed under an agreement with Glaxo, the people
familiar said. Such pacts, known as  “tolling agreements,”  are
common in mass-tort cases.  Shares Rise  Trial was slated to begin Jan. 31 in federal court in
Philadelphia in the Burford family’s case.  Burford, an electrical-parts salesman, took Avandia for 15
months to treat diabetes before having a fatal heart attack in
his North Carolina home, according to court filings. He was 49
at the time of his death.  Glaxo’s American depositary receipts, each representing two
ordinary shares, rose 67 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $38.68 at
12:47 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
company rose 18 pence to 1,189 pence in  London  trading today.  The consolidated case is In re Avandia Marketing, Sales
Practices and Products Liability Litigation, 07-01871, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).
The Burford case is Deborah Burford v. SmithklineBeecham Corp.,
07-CV-05360, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  