-- Google's Ghonim May Be Freed Today After Disappearing in Cairo a Week Ago
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2011-02-07T13:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/google-s-ghonim-may-be-freed-today-after-disappearing-in-cairo-a-week-ago.html
  Google Inc . executive Wael Ghonim,
who disappeared more than a week ago from the streets of Cairo,
is being detained by Egyptian security authorities and may be
released today, according to his brother.    Orascom Telecom Holding SAE ’s Chairman Naguib Sawiris
informed the family of the expected release, Hazem Ghonim,
Wael’s brother, said in an interview today. Egyptian state
television said earlier that Ghonim may be freed at 4 p.m. local
time, citing Prime Minister Ahmed Shafiq.  Authorities curbed the flow of information during anti-
government rallies aimed at toppling President  Hosni Mubarak . A
five-day shutdown of  Internet access  began Jan. 29, and mobile-
telephone services were disrupted for at least two days.
Security forces also detained reporters after clashes erupted on
Feb. 2 when Mubarak supporters attacked the demonstrators.  Protesters gathered today for a 14th day in central Cairo’s
Tahrir Square, the focal point of the rallies. The army has
cordoned off the historic site with barbed wire and limited
confrontations between the two sides. About 300 people have died
in the clashes, according to the  United Nations .  The government couldn’t provide the number of protesters
who had been arrested since the demonstrations began Jan. 25 nor
give a figure for those still in custody, the Interior Ministry
spokesman, Hamdi Abdel Kareem, said in a phone interview today.
“When the situation stabilizes, we will announce all these
details,” he said.  ‘Very Worried’  Ghonim, working for the Internet-search service in Egypt,
was unaccounted for after last being seen in central Cairo amid
the protests, according to a Feb. 3 e-mailed statement from
Google, based in  Mountain View , California.  He wrote on Jan. 27 in a posting on Twitter Inc.’s social
networking site: “Pray for Egypt. Very worried as it seems that
the government is planning a war crime tomorrow against
people.” A day later, Hazem Ghonim said that he had lost
contact with his 30-year-old brother, who he later learned was
detained by state security.    Egypt ’s Sixth of April opposition group named Ghonim as
their spokesman to put pressure on Egyptian authorities to
release him,  CBS News  reported on Feb. 4, citing an unidentified
leader of the movement.  “I kept calling him but his phone was switched off,”
Hazem said. “I sensed that there was something wrong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at   mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 