-- Google Marketing Manager Wael Ghonim Is Freed in Egypt
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2011-02-07T22:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/google-says-marketing-manager-wael-ghonim-is-released-in-egypt.html
  Google Inc . executive Wael Ghonim,
whose social-media expertise played a part in igniting the anti-
government protests in  Egypt , was released today by Egyptian
authorities.  He had been missing more than a week. Associates reported
that he was abducted by unidentified men while at the scene of
demonstrations in central Cairo. Until yesterday, when state
television announced he was to be freed, the government had been
silent about whether he was in government detention.  Upon his release, Ghonim appeared on the Arabic-language
OTV channel. “Please don’t turn me into a hero. I’m not a
hero,” he said. “The heroes are the ones who were out on the
street.”  “It is a huge relief that Wael Ghonim has been released,”
Google said in a statement. “We send our best wishes to him and
his family.” Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California ,
distributed the statement via e-mail and its account on the
Twitter Inc. site.  Ghonim, Google’s regional marketing manager, had played a
role in online activism, and protesters called him a symbolic
leader. He had helped set up the website for opposition leader  Mohamed ElBaradei  as well as showing others how to use social-
media tools, such as Twitter and Facebook Inc.’s site.  ‘Change Our Country’  Ghonim said he would like to send his condolences to
Egyptians who lost their lives in the unrest. “God willing, we
will change our country,” he said.  The channel showed Ghonim sitting in the back seat of a car
and talking with newly appointed ruling party secretary-general
Hossam Badrawi, seated next to him.  Naguib Sawiris, chairman of  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE ,
Egypt’s largest publicly traded company, said in a telephone
interview that he had brought up the issue of Ghonim’s release
with Vice President  Omar Suleiman .  “There needs to be credibility and good intentions to
engage these youths in a dialogue,” he said after Ghonim’s
release. “The regime must understand that it has to pick one of
two options: attack and arrest the people or engage them in a
dialogue. It cannot have both.”  “With his release, the government has shown that they are
sincere about providing Egyptians with their basic rights,”
Sawiris told Bloomberg Television’s “Fast Forward” program.  “Wael has done nothing to be arrested for,” except
advocating for political rights, Sawiris said. He said Ghonim
may have been targeted by Egyptian police because the Google
executive had used social media to report on an Egyptian boy who
he said had been beaten by security forces in Alexandria.  “He made the world aware of that crime,” Sawiris said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  