-- Gore’s Investment Firm Said to Start $500 Million Asian Fund
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2011-02-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/gore-s-investment-firm-said-to-start-500-million-asian-fund.html
  Al Gore ’s Generation Investment
Management LLP, which buys shares of companies it deems socially
responsible, aims to start a $500 million fund to invest in  Asia , said two people briefed on the plan.  The fund may start by July, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the information is private. It will buy
shares of Asian companies that adhere to  Generation’s investment
guidelines  of focusing on “economic, social and environmental”
sustainability, while eschewing “short-term” profit goals.  Generation is looking to invest in countries including
China and India as Asia’s growth, and the region’s demands for
natural resources, increasingly affect the world economy. The
firm, which targets pension funds and wealthy clients, closed
its main global equity fund in 2008 to new money after assets
rose to about $5 billion. Gore, the former U.S. vice president,
founded London-based Generation in 2004 with David Blood, who
previously headed asset management at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .  “I’d be shocked if socially responsible firms weren’t
expanding their investing into Asia,” said Douglas Elliott, an
economics fellow at the Washington-based Brookings Institution
and a former banker at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “What makes it
possible is that Asian firms are moving increasingly towards
more traditional western corporate forms with a lot more
transparency and access to the capital markets.”  Gore, 62, wasn’t available to comment, said Kalee Kreider,
his spokeswoman. A spokesman for Generation declined to comment.  Long Only  Generation’s Asian fund, like the global equity fund, will
only make bets that stocks will rise, according to the people.
The fund will be separate from Generation’s venture-capital
business, which provides funding for renewable-energy firms and
companies that create markets for trading carbon emissions.  Generation’s earnings almost quadrupled in 2009 to 31.5
million pounds ($50.8 million) from 8.3 million pounds in 2008,
according to a Sept. 9 filing with the U.K.’s Companies House.  Generation was eligible to distribute most of the profits
to its 10 partners, including Gore, Blood, 51, and Peter Knight,
a campaign manager to former U.S. President  Bill Clinton . Five
percent of the firm’s earnings go to the Generation Foundation,
a U.K.-registered charity that researches sustainable
development.  ‘Outstanding’  While investment returns aren’t publicly disclosed, the
performance of Generation’s global equities fund was
“outstanding” for the 12 months ended in March 2010, according
to the most recent  annual report  filed by the  U.K. Environment
Agency’s  pension fund.  The global equities fund beat its benchmark, the  MSCI World 
Index, by 10 percentage points, said the pension fund, which
invests in Generation. The MSCI index rose 47 percent over the
same period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Generation’s investments include 3.5 million shares of
online auction company  EBay Inc ., 5.8 million shares of payroll
processing company  Paychex Inc . and 7 million shares of  Quanta
Services Inc ., a contracting firm for electric utilities.
Generation disclosed the holdings in a November filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Gore, who served as vice president for eight years under
Clinton, lost the presidency in 2000 to  George W. Bush  in a
disputed election. After losing to Bush, Gore tried to raise
public awareness about  climate change , and he shared in the 2007
Nobel Prize for his efforts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  