-- Beautiful, Brainless ‘Spider-Man’ Is Still Inert: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2011-02-07T21:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/gorgeous-dumb-spider-man-remains-inert-after-65-previews-jeremy-gerard.html
There were two showstoppers during
the 65th preview of  “Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark”  on
Saturday night, and they weren’t songs.  This was meant to be the weekend critics came, though the
producers of this elaborately afflicted musical once again
postponed opening night until March 15.  No dice. Critics from the  New York  Times, local tabloids,
the Washington Post and the Los Angeles Times, among others,
dropped in anyway. And so did I, for the second time, to re-
review a show I had found close to unsalvageable on Dec. 26.  Preview number 65 was no improvement over number 30. In
fact, it was worse.  At around midpoint in Act I, Reeve Carney couldn’t take
flight as he was supposed to. While the crew futzed with the
wires, Spidey and his nemesis the Green Goblin (Patrick Page)
sauntered over to a downstage piano and ad libbed what turned
out to be the funniest lines of the night.  “Better be careful with that Champagne,” warned the
Goblin as Spider-Man lifted a glass.  “Pretty soon you’ll be flying over the audience’s heads.”
He paused. “I hear they’ve dropped a few of ‘em.” That drew a
great laugh.  Dangling Conversation  Minutes later, during their big, 30-second battle scene,
Spider-Man had to be helped onto one of his high perches and the
Goblin was left dangling for several minutes over the pricey
seats.  Director  Julie Taymor  had said she would be crafting a new
second act that required time. Back in December, the show ended
ambiguously, with a morose super-hero. That’s been replaced by a
crowd-pleasing buss that Mary Jane plants on him as he bungees,
upside-down, from the rafters.  The best thing about “Spider-Man” remains George Tsypin’s
sets, a giddy-making color-saturated mash-up of bold comic-strip
tableaux and ingenious, perspective-altering views of the
Chrysler building, a teeny subway train, a threatening city
schoolyard.  They frame Taymor and costume designer Eiko Ishioka’s
outlandishly bedecked villains and life-size puppets. Donald Holder has unleashed every exclamatory trick of the lighting
designer’s trade to make the show a heart-quickening visual
trip, pumped up by Daniel Ezralow’s acrobatic choreography.  Spider-Woman?  Bono and The Edge, mostly out touring with U2 when not at
Davos, have dropped in from time to time without changing the
songs, which remain loud, dull and unmemorable.  Neither Taymor nor her co-writer, Glen Berger, have found a
way to improve the book, a protofeminist stew that foolishly
decants the myth of the weaver Arachne into a story that’s
incoherent to begin with.  After all this expenditure of talent and money, “Spider-
Man” is probably unfixable because too much has gone into
making humans fly, which is not what they are good at. It
imitates poorly what the “Spider-Man” movies do brilliantly
with computer graphics -- and without putting live actors in
jeopardy.  They are fine actors. In addition to Carney and Page, I
liked Jennifer Damiano, who has little to do as girlfriend Mary
Jane Watson, but does it winningly, and Michael Mulheren as
crass Daily Bugle editor J. Jonah Jameson.  Maybe the show eventually will run for several performances
in a row without having to stop to untangle someone. Some
triumph.  At the Foxwoods Theatre, 213 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-
877-250-2929;  http://spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com . Rating: **  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 