-- Packers Take Advantage of Steelers' Turnovers to Clinch Super Bowl 31-25
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-02-07T06:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/green-bay-packers-beat-pittsburgh-steelers-31-25-to-win-super-bowl-title.html
The Super Bowl trophy is headed back
to Green Bay,  Wisconsin , thanks to  Aaron Rodgers  and an
opportunistic Packers’ defense.  The Packers beat the Pittsburgh Steelers 31-25 last night
at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington,  Texas , to capture their first
Super Bowl title in 14 years and a record-extending 13th
National Football League championship overall.  Rodgers threw three touchdown passes and the Packers’
defense forced three turnovers, including two interceptions of
Steelers quarterback  Ben Roethlisberger , as Green Bay won its
fourth Super Bowl title. The franchise’s first two came in 1968
and 1969 under Hall of Fame coach Vince Lombardi, after whom the
Super Bowl trophy is named.  “It was just a tremendous effort,” Packers coach Mike McCarthy said during the trophy presentation. “Coach Lombardi’s
trophy is finally going home.”  The Packers opened a 21-3 second-quarter lead and held on
to deny the Steelers a record seventh Super Bowl title. Rodgers
led two fourth-quarter scoring drives and  Green Bay ’s defense
made a final stand, forcing a fourth-down incompletion by
Roethlisberger with 49 seconds left.  “It was just like our season, a lot of adversity and guys
stepped up,” said Rodgers, who passed for 304 yards and was
voted the game’s Most Valuable Player. “Now we’re sitting here
as Super Bowl champs. It was a fun night.”  Touchdowns Off Turnovers  Three of Green Bay’s touchdowns followed Pittsburgh
turnovers, including a 37-yard interception return by Nick Collins that gave the Packers a 14-0 first-quarter lead.  Teams that give up an interception return for a touchdown
are now 0-11 in the Super Bowl.  “We just turned the ball over (too much),” said
Roethlisberger, who completed 25 of 40 passes for 263 yards, two
touchdowns and two interceptions. “That’s my fault. We did some
good things, we just didn’t score enough points.”  Rodgers, 27, gets his first Super Bowl title after a season
in which quarterback  Brett Favre , his predecessor in Green Bay,
said he’s retired from the NFL for good after playing for two
other teams. A first-round draft pick in 2005, Rodgers spent
three seasons as a backup before taking over as the Packers’
starter in 2008 when Favre was traded.  Favre, a three-time NFL MVP, had led the Packers to their
previous Super Bowl win 14 years ago.  “I never felt like there was a monkey on my back,”
Rodgers said. “I told (General Manager) Ted (Thompson) in 2005
he wouldn’t be unhappy with that pick. And I told him in 2008
that I would repay his trust.”  Super Bowl Coach  The title is also the first for Packers coach  Mike McCarthy ,
who grew up in Pittsburgh as a Steelers fan. McCarthy, 46, joins
Lombardi, Curly Lambeau and Mike Holmgren as Green Bay’s
championship coaches.  McCarthy said the Packers’ Super Bowl win mirrored a season
in which they overcame a 3-3 start and season-ending injuries to
16 players. The Packers made the playoffs on the final day of
the regular season and then won three straight road games to
reach the Super Bowl.  Green Bay had its 18-point lead cut to 21-17 early in the
second half last night after losing cornerbacks Charles Woodson
and Sam Shields to injury. Roethlisberger threw an 8-yard
touchdown pass to Hines Ward 39 seconds before halftime and
Rashard Mendenhall ran for an 8-yard score on the Steelers’
first drive of the third quarter.  Shaun Suisham missed a 52-yard field goal attempt on the
Steelers’ next possession and Mendenhall had Pittsburgh’s third
turnover, fumbling on the first play of the fourth quarter after
a hit by Packers linebacker Clay Matthews.  Rodgers to Jennings  Green Bay again took advantage, with Rodgers throwing an 8-
yard touchdown pass to Jennings with 11:57 remaining. It was the
second touchdown catch for Jennings.  Roethlisberger, who led the Steelers to two  Super Bowl 
titles, then directed a 66-yard drive capped by a 25-yard
scoring pass to Mike Wallace. A two-point conversion by Antwaan Randle El got Pittsburgh within 28-25 with 7:34 left.  The Steelers got the ball back with 2:07 on the clock after
Mason Crosby’s 23-yard field goal pushed the Packers’ advantage
to 31-25.  The largest deficit ever overcome to win a Super Bowl was
10 points and the Steelers’ attempt to break that record fell
short. When Roethlisberger’s final pass was off target near
midfield, the celebration began on the Packers’ sideline.  “It means you’re now a part of greatness,” said Packers
receiver Donald Driver. “We’re just glad to say it’s coming
back where it belongs.”  No Seats  As post-game confetti flew around  Cowboys Stadium , not all
fans who paid for seats were there to see it.  The NFL wasn’t able to seat 400 ticket holders last night
because temporary seating wasn’t completed. While 850 fans were
relocated, the other 400 received triple the face value of their
$800 tickets and were taken to a club area inside the stadium to
watch the game on televisions.  For the Steelers, it was the just their second loss in
eight Super Bowl appearances.  “We weren’t able to get any turnovers on defense. That was
the difference,” safety Troy Polamalu, the NFL’s Defensive
Player of the Year, told reporters. “They were able to make
plays on defense. We didn’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  