-- Greek House Prices Will Drop About 15% in Next Two Years, Fitch Predicts
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2011-02-07T15:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/greek-house-prices-will-drop-about-15-in-next-two-years-fitch-predicts.html
Greek real-estate prices are likely
to decline 15 percent over the next two years as interest-rate
increases make it harder for borrowers hit by austerity measures
to keep up with mortgage payments, according to Fitch Ratings.  “It seems likely that increased arrears will begin to
result in increased defaults during the coming year,” Fitch
analysts Aksel Etingu and Peter Dossett said in a report
released today. The proportion of loans not paid for more than
three months rose to 2.7 percent in December from 0.9 percent a
year earlier, they said.  Lower  interest rates  have been helping homeowners make debt
repayments, keeping the drop in  Greece ’s house-price index to
4.3 percent since its 2008 peak, according to the report. Fitch
said it expects the index to decline a further 15 percent over
the next two years as the European interbank offered rate, or
Euribor, drifts up.  Government efforts “to control and reduce public-sector
debt are also expected to have a major effect on arrears
levels,” the analysts wrote. Public workers constitute a high
proportion of Greek borrowers and some may have future payment
difficulties due to the austerity measures, according to Fitch.  Greece slashed public-sector pay and reduced spending last
year to rein in its budget gap in exchange for a 110 billion-
euro ($149 billion) bailout from the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . The measures deepened the country’s
recession as the economy shrank 4.2 percent in 2010 and the  unemployment rate  reached 13.5 percent in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 