-- Fox Says Super Bowl Was Most-Watched Program in U.S. Television History G
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2011-02-07T21:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/green-bay-s-win-ties-1987-giants-broncos-super-bowl-for-highest-tv-rating.html
The Green Bay Packers’ win over the
Pittsburgh Steelers in last night’s  Super Bowl  averaged 111
million viewers, the biggest audience in U.S. television history.  The Packers’ 31-25 victory in Arlington, Texas, drew record
viewership to the Super Bowl for the fourth straight year,  News
Corp .’s Fox said today in a statement. Last year’s game, carried
on  CBS Corp .’s network, averaged 106.5 million viewers.  After the game, a record 100.6 million viewers remained to
watch Fox’s prime-time lineup including an episode of “Glee,”
Los Angeles-based Fox said. Advertisers that buy Super Bowl ads
expect an audience equal to the previous year’s game, said Laura Martin, an analyst at Needham & Co., in an interview before the
game. The average 30-second commercial during the game cost $3
million, according to researcher Kantar Media.  “There’s a lot of upside for advertisers, even with
commercials costing $3 million,” said  Brad Adgate , who oversees
research at Horizon Media Inc., an advertising company in  New
York . “There’s nothing else like it on television.”  Last year’s Super Bowl, where the New Orleans Saints’ beat
the Indianapolis Colts 31-17 in Miami, was the first television
broadcast to surpass the 1983 season finale of “M*A*S*H,”
which was watched by 106 million viewers, according to Nielsen
Co. data.  Revenue Record  Lou D’Ermilio, a spokesman for Fox Sports, said before the
game that yesterday would mark the single highest revenue-
generating day in the network’s history. This year’s Super Bowl
at  Cowboys Stadium  was forecast to attract the biggest audience
ever after the NFL set regular-season and post-season TV
records.  This was the sixth Super Bowl broadcast by Fox, which last
televised the NFL’s championship game three years ago, when the
Giants beat the New England Patriots 17-14. That game drew 97.5
million viewers, Fox said.  No other major sporting event has set a record in four
straight years, Fox said. This year’s game also marks the sixth
consecutive year that Super Bowl viewership has climbed, the
network said. Since 2005, the Super Bowl’s audience has gained
by about 29 percent.    Comcast Corp .’s NBC network will broadcast next year’s
Super Bowl.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ; or
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.netTo  contact the reporter on this story: 