-- Grown-Up Perry Glows in ‘Sunshine’; Chicago Cops, Mobsters: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2011-02-07T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/grown-up-perry-glows-in-sunshine-chicago-cops-mobsters-tv.html
Nice knowing you, Chandler Bing. With
“ Mr. Sunshine ,” Matthew Perry might finally have built a
vehicle fast enough, funny enough and smart enough to outrun his
durable “Friends” persona.  The new comedy, which Perry also co-created and co-writes
with Alex Barnow and Marc Firek, further strengthens an ABC
Wednesday night lineup that includes “ The Middle ” and “ Modern
Family .” If “Mr. Sunshine” makes good on the promise of its
pilot episode, the network will have the strongest night of
comedy on television.  Perry plays Ben Donovan, manager of a San Diego arena
called the Sunshine Center. Pushing middle age, the unmarried
Ben is better at handling the arena’s ever-present chaos than in
tackling his own neglected personal life.  Looking every minute of Ben’s 40 years, Perry knows his
protracted adolescence is behind him. When Ben jokingly offers
one of his “special moves” to a lovely co-worker (Andrea
Anders), she immediately recognizes it as “the one where you
look up and say, ‘I’m sorry, I don’t know what just happened?’”  “Mr. Sunshine” reunites veteran sitcom director Thomas Schlamme and Perry with their “West Wing” cohort Allison Janney, who plays Crystal Cohen, the arena’s pill-popping owner.
Careening from shrewd and demanding to ditsy and dazed, Janney’s
Crystal is the funniest, freshest sitcom boss since Alec Baldwin
landed at “30 Rock.”  Estranged Son  Also in the excellent ensemble are Nate Torrence, as
Crystal’s estranged son; James Lesure as a gratingly optimistic
ex-hoops star now in management; and Portia Doubleday as Ben’s
sweet, possibly psychotic assistant. Jorge Garcia (Hurley, from
“Lost”) guest stars in the pilot as a maintenance worker whose
name Ben can’t remember.  “Mr. Sunshine” has all its pieces in place. If it can
avoid the creeping sentimentality and pomposity that eventually
marred “The West Wing,” “Mr. Sunshine” could be the best
gift we’ve yet received from an ex-Friend.  “Mr. Sunshine” premieres Feb. 9 on ABC at 9:30 p.m. New
York time. Rating: ***1/2  ‘Traffic Light’  Don’t write off “ Traffic Light ” as an extended variation
of those old “Wassup” commercials just yet. The new Fox sitcom
about three old college pals navigating adulthood matures into
something close to promising by its third episode.  David Denman is Mike, a lawyer with a wife (appealingly
played by Liza Lapira) and infant son, and Nelson Franklin is
the droll, hipsterish Adam. Denman and Franklin, both alumni of
“ The Office ,” give the show much of its charm but Kris
Marshal, looking a tad like mid-career  David Bowie , is miscast
as Ethan, the gang’s British Lothario.  “Traffic Light” makes too much of the trio’s talking-
while-driving phone conversations, meant to suggest their safe
haven from women and adult responsibility. If the writing gets
just a tad sharper, viewers might be as distracted from looming
mishaps as the characters seem to be.  “Traffic Light” premieres Feb. 8 on Fox at 9:30 p.m.  New
York  time. Rating: **1/2  ‘Chicago Code’  Irish mobsters, a Polish cop, a black politician: The
ethnic stew of Fox’s new, middling police drama “ The Chicago
Code ” is ladled thick, but creator Shawn Ryan foregoes the
character complexity of his earlier series “The Shield.”  “Code” sticks so close to ancient good cop/bad guy
conventions that, despite flourishes like narration and
serialized story arcs, it seems defiantly retro in our gray-
shaded, post-”Wire” era.  Jason Clarke stars as Jarek Wysocki, a street-smart
detective so good he’s given free rein to choose his cases. His
boss, the police superintendent well-played by Jennifer Beals,
convinces him to investigate the crooked doings of an alderman
(the terrific Delroy Lindo). Along for the ride is Wysocki’s new
partner (Matt Lauria), who makes up in instinct what he lacks in
experience.  “The Chicago Code” premieres tonight on Fox at 9 p.m. New
York time. Rating: **1/2    Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 