-- Taxpayers Line Up for Expensive Refund Loans in Shadow of Yankee Stadium
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2011-02-07T14:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/in-shadow-of-yankee-stadium-taxpayers-line-up-for-refund-loans.html
Virgie Barber climbed over the mounds
of snow piled on streets around Yankee Stadium on a Friday night
to file her  tax return  and get an instant refund loan.  “Times are tough and people need their money right away,”
said Barber, 44, of the Bronx, New York. “It’s sad that people
have to pay to get their money in a day. Every year I say I’m
not going to do it.”  Barber joined a queue of people on Jan. 28 entering the  Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Inc . franchise on Gerard Avenue after
work with a W-2 form in hand and hopes of getting a refund-
anticipation loan from one of the few companies able to offer
it. The loans, known as RALs, are secured by an individual’s
expected  tax refund , with annualized  interest rates  that may run
as high as 124 percent.  Regulators have cracked down on RALs and the  Internal
Revenue Service  has said they are marketed to those who may not
have cash to pay for help on their returns. Tax preparers and
their bank partners made 8.4 million refund loans in the 2008
filing season, costing consumers about $738 million in fees,
according to a February 2010  report  by the National Consumer Law
Center in  Boston  and Washington-based Consumer Federation of
America.    Jackson Hewitt , the second-biggest U.S. tax preparer after  H&R Block Inc ., advertises the loans as a way to get money “in
as little as one day,” according to the Parsippany, New Jersey-
based company’s website. The median  household income  in the
Bronx was $35,000, according to the latest  U.S. Census data .  Nationwide Hiring  Barber’s return was prepared by Nyri Arne Jeffries, 33, one
of about 32,000 workers Jackson Hewitt hired nationwide for this
tax season. Jeffries, who previously worked in retail, completed
a 10-week tax course plus 2 weeks of training on the firm’s
computer software before starting to prepare returns, she said.  “I like to deal with finances,” said Jeffries, who wants
to get her bachelor’s degree and run her own consulting business
one day. “Taxes to me are the back office of everything.”  Jackson Hewitt offers the loans through an agreement with
Republic Bancorp Inc., based in Louisville,  Kentucky . The bank
approves the funding. “We’re just the middleman,” said
Kassandra Davis, 42, who handles compliance for returns from  New
York  and New Jersey franchises, in an interview at the Gerard
Avenue office. About 6,500 returns were processed last year at
the company’s three locations near the stadium, said Davis.  Wait for Refunds  Before explaining the terms of the refund loans, preparers
like Jeffries are instructed to tell customers that the fastest
way to get their refund is through the IRS, which typically
takes 8 days to 15 days if you use direct deposit, said Davis.  Because electronic filing and direct deposit have reduced
the wait for refunds, the IRS will no longer help banks
underwrite tax-refund loans by providing them with information
about a taxpayer’s debt, the agency  said  in August. H&R Block
isn’t offering tax-refund loans this year after the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates national banks,
blocked  HSBC Holdings Plc  from funding them. H&R Block had a
contract with the London-based bank set to expire in 2013.  JPMorgan Chase & Co . exited the refund-loan business in April
2010.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. is “carefully
scrutinizing whether RALs are a safe and sound product given the
absence of a debt indicator due to the IRS decision,” spokesman  David Barr  said in an e-mail.  To qualify for a $1,561.22 loan at Jackson Hewitt, a
taxpayer needs a minimum federal tax refund of $2,000. The
finance charge is $61.22 with an estimated annualized percentage
rate of 124 percent. There’s an additional $49.95 in fees for
the bank’s administration and Jackson Hewitt’s transmission,
according to the signage in the office.  ‘Hard Look’  People should “take a hard look” at the cost of these
loans before signing up because there are tax preparation
services available for free that deliver refunds quickly, said
Marietta Rodriguez, national director for homeownership and
lending at  NeighborWorks America , a Washington-based nonprofit
that supports a network of community development and affordable
housing organizations.  “This time of year people are always feeling a spending
hangover from the holidays and people are particularly
vulnerable to this hard money,” Rodriguez said. “The cost
related to the loans is very high usually and entities that
offer them make them very accessible.”  In addition to its storefront franchises, Jackson Hewitt
also offers tax preparation services in more than 2,000  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc . locations, according to Philip Sanford, chief
executive officer and president of the tax preparer.  Filing Fees  “For a significant portion of our customers their tax
refund is their largest single financial transaction of the year
and for a significant portion of our customers they want their
money in as little as a day,” said Sanford in an interview. The
company had no comment on the interest rates or fees for RALs,
said spokesman Michael LaCosta.  The cost for filing the simplest federal and state returns
with Jackson Hewitt in the Bronx location ranges from $58 to
$104, according to signage in the office. Additional charges
apply for more complex returns such as deductions for education
expenses, Davis said. The loan fees and tax preparation charges
are subtracted directly from the refund when the taxpayer opts
for a RAL. “There are no upfront costs,” Davis said. Customers
may know if they are approved and pick up their check within a
day, she said.  Free IRS Filing  The IRS offers free online federal tax preparation for
workers with adjusted gross incomes up to $58,000, or about 70
percent of filers, according to its  website . The software is
offered by several companies, some of which may also provide
state tax return filing for free or for a fee. TurboTax, a tax
product sold by  Mountain View , California-based  Intuit Inc .,
participates in the free file program, for example, and also has
free state-tax preparation available for qualified taxpayers in
21 states, said spokeswoman Ashley Kirkendall.  The IRS is requiring all paid tax preparers to register for
a preparer tax identification number, or PTIN, starting this
year,  David Williams , head of the agency’s return preparer
office, said in a telephone interview. The requirement is the
first step in a phased-in effort to create minimum standards for
preparers, Williams said.  Competency Exam  Certain preparers will need to pass a competency exam and
take 15 hours of continuing education courses each year,
according to Williams. A start date for these requirements has
not been set yet, the IRS said.  “Taxpayers are ultimately responsible for the accuracy of
their returns under the law so they need to be careful in
choosing a preparer,” Williams said.  Barber opted for a loan, knowing it was an expensive way to
get her refund because of bills to pay such as her car
registration and insurance, she said.  “The economy is so bad but things are looking up,” Barber
said, rushing out of the Jackson Hewitt office into the winter
night with plans to be back the next day to pick up her check.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 