-- India Predicts Fastest Economic Growth Since 2008
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2011-02-07T12:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/india-predicts-fastest-pace-of-economic-growth-since-2008-as-rates-climb.html
  India ’s government predicted the
economy will expand the most in three years, supporting the
central bank’s case for raising  interest rates  further after the
steepest increases in  Asia .  The $1.3 trillion economy will probably expand 8.6 percent
in the year ending March 31 from a year earlier, the  Central
Statistical Organisation  said in a statement in  New Delhi  today.
The projection was in line with the median of 16 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  India, battling inflation stoked by rising consumer demand
and food costs, is bracing for the impact of a possible spurt in
oil prices following political unrest in Egypt, central bank
Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn signaled yesterday. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  on Feb. 4 said India needs to tackle inflation
with “great urgency” to sustain the economy’s momentum.  “Inflation risks are growing rapidly,” Shubhada Rao,
chief economist in Mumbai at Yes Bank Ltd., said before the
report. “Another rate increase next month is a huge
possibility.”  The yield on the benchmark nine-year government bond rose
one basis point in Mumbai today to 8.21 percent, a three-week
high. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index gained 0.2
percent while the rupee advanced 0.2 percent to 45.48 against
the dollar.  Anti-Inflation Stance    Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on Jan. 25
raised the key repurchase rate by a quarter-point to a two-year
high of 6.5 percent and pledged “persistence with the anti-
inflationary monetary stance” as he boosted the nation’s
inflation forecast.  Subbarao said India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation
rate may be at 7 percent by March 31, more than the earlier
estimate of 5.5 percent. The gauge stood at 8.43 percent in
December. He maintained the RBI’s growth projection for the
current financial year at 8.5 percent with an “upward bias.”  “A whole set of events unfolded in the Middle East which
are starting to have an impact on oil prices and that is
something which we didn’t anticipate at the time of making the
policy announcement on Jan. 25,” Gokarn said yesterday in
Dabolim, in the western Indian state of Goa. “It is going to
have an impact on our thinking, on our actions going forward.”  India meets about three-quarters of its annual energy needs
from imports. Oil prices could more than double if the unrest in  Egypt  forces the closure of the  Suez Canal , Venezuelan Oil
Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said Feb. 4.  Egypt’s Crisis  Protesters demanding an end to President  Hosni Mubarak ’s
30-year rule erupted Jan. 25 in Cairo and have left as many as
300 people dead, according to the  United Nations . Concern that
turmoil in Egypt could force the closure of the Suez Canal,
halting crude shipments through the crucial waterway, sent North
Sea Brent crude oil prices above $100 a barrel for the first
time since October 2008 last week.  “There’s obviously a risk that the situation will transmit
into higher commodity prices,” Gokarn told reporters in New
Delhi today. “So, that intensifies the risk.”    Brent crude  for March settlement climbed as much as $1.07,
or 1.1 percent, to $100.90 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. Prices have climbed 44 percent in the
past 12 months.  About 2.5 percent of world oil output moves through Egypt
via the waterway and the Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline, according
to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Opposition Talks  Egyptian Vice President  Omar Suleiman  and some members of
the opposition yesterday agreed on limited steps to resolve the
crisis, even as the government stood firm against the demand
from protesters that Mubarak resign.  Subbarao, who has raised rates the most among Asian central
banks in the past year, last month urged the government to cut
subsidies including that on oil, saying “monetary policy works
most efficiently while dealing with an inflationary situation
when the fiscal situation is under control.”  While subsidies may contribute in the short term to keep
supply-side inflationary pressures in check, they may “more
than offset” this benefit by adding to aggregate demand,
Subbarao said.  The comments build pressure on Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee to cut the  budget deficit , which has almost doubled in
three years. Mukherjee, who is scheduled to announce this month
the budget for the fiscal year starting April 1, is aiming to
narrow the budget gap to 5.5 percent of gross domestic product
in the year ending March 31. That compares with a shortfall of
2.7 percent of GDP in the year ended March 2008.  Excise Tax  In the last budget, Mukherjee increased the excise tax rate
on manufacturers to 10 percent from 8 percent. It stood at 12
percent before the global financial crisis.  Yes Bank’s Rao said Mukherjee may boost the excise tax rate
to 12 percent in next year’s budget.  Companies including  Godrej Consumer Products Ltd ., India’s
second-largest maker of bath soap, say higher taxes will hurt
profit, already squeezed by rising input costs. Godrej, which
raised prices last month, may follow with more increases as
“raw material costs are going up,” Chairman  Adi Godrej  said in
a Feb. 4 interview with Bloomberg News.  “Raising taxes would be disastrous for the industry because
we need stimulus very much as inflation is very high, interest
rates have gone up again,” Godrej said. “Raising taxes would
be a quite poor policy to my mind as it will hurt businesses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  