-- Indonesia Economy Expands 6.9% in Fourth Quarter, Fastest Pace Since 2004
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 2011-02-07T12:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/indonesia-economy-expands-6-9-in-fourth-quarter-fastest-pace-since-2004.html
  Indonesia ’s economy grew at the
fastest annual pace in six years last quarter, adding to the
case for the central bank to raise  interest rates  further as
inflation accelerates.  Gross domestic product increased 6.9 percent in the three
months through December from a year earlier, the  Central Bureau
of Statistics  said in Jakarta today. That was higher than the
6.3 percent median estimate of 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. GDP increased 6.1 percent in 2010.  Rising consumer spending is driving the expansion in the
world’s fourth-most populous nation, increasing pressure on the
central bank to restrain price gains and protect purchasing
power. Indonesia joins counterparts from  China  to Singapore in
reporting accelerating growth in the fourth quarter as Asia
weathers risks including elevated U.S. unemployment.  “The central bank clearly needs to stay hawkish with the
economy growing at this pace and they have to be vigilant on
inflation,” said Lim Su Sian, a Singapore-based economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. Bank Indonesia will raise
borrowing costs by a further 0.75 percentage point this year
from the current level of 6.75 percent, she said.  The  Jakarta Composite Index  fell 0.2 percent today. The
index had tumbled approximately 8 percent from its Dec. 9 record
high on concern the central bank has fallen behind regional
peers in boosting rates to cool inflation. The rupiah
strengthened for a fifth day to 8,953 per dollar.  Inflation Risk  Private consumption contributed 2.7 percentage points to
GDP growth last year, while investment accounted for about 2
percentage points, the government said. The absence of a harvest
led to a 1.4 percent economic contraction in the final three
months of 2010 from the previous quarter, Central Statistics
Office Chairman Rusman Heriawan said today.  “Inflation clearly outweighs growth risks,” Chua Hak Bin,
a Singapore-based economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
said before the report. “Indonesia’s strong export growth is
being supported by surging commodity prices, including on oil
and coal prices. We expect growth to remain resilient.”  Economists from UBS AG and Royal Bank of Canada are among
those predicting the nation’s borrowing costs will rise to 8
percent this year, after the central bank increased its
benchmark  reference rate  by a quarter of a percentage point on
Feb. 4 from a record low.    Consumer Confidence     Bank Indonesia  had previously resisted higher rates to
avoid attracting more foreign capital inflows, while opting to
increase lenders’ reserve requirements and tighten rules on
banks’ foreign-exchange holdings to help curb price advances.  Consumer confidence rose in January from December, with a
central bank index climbing 4.6 points to 113.9, the highest
level since August 2009. Indonesians were more optimistic on the
outlook for income, the economy and employment than any time
since September 2009, a separate index measuring expectations
showed.  The nation’s growth has made companies more confident about
raising prices as commodity costs increase, with PT Indofood CBP
Sukses Makmur boosting the price of its instant noodles by 100
rupiah a pack last month.  Consumer-price growth accelerated to a 21-month high of
7.02 percent in January, from 6.96 percent in December. Higher
borrowing costs may help anchor inflation expectations and
support the rupiah and longer-term bonds, according to Citigroup
Inc.  Growth Objective  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  seeks to expand the
economy at an annual average rate of 6.6 percent and create 10.7
million jobs by the end of his second term in 2014, including
through attempts to boost investment in the country’s
infrastructure.  Foreign and domestic investment in Indonesia totaled 208.5
trillion rupiah ($23 billion) in 2010, Investment Coordinating
Board Chairman  Gita Wirjawan  said Jan. 23.  Indian and Indonesian companies last month signed accords
worth about $15 billion to build airports, steel plants, a
railway line and ports in the Southeast Asian nation. Indonesia
will seek bids for 50 new oil and gas blocks in 2011 through
tenders and direct offers to help boost output, the Energy and
Minerals Resources Ministry said last year.  Moody’s Investors Service upgraded the credit rating of
Southeast  Asia ’s largest economy on Jan. 17 to the highest level
since the 1997 Asian financial crisis, citing the nation’s
“economic resilience” and improving public debt position.  Food Costs  Indonesia, the third-biggest rice importer in Asia, is
seeking to “strengthen” its stockpiles to protect the poor
against rising costs, Bayu Krisnamurthi, Deputy Minister of
Agriculture, told Bloomberg News on Feb. 4.  The government has removed  import duties  on 57 food items
including wheat, soybeans, rice and animal feed for as long as
one year to help cool prices. Rice imports are tax-free until
March and tariffs on other commodities are lifted until
December, Bambang Permadi Brodjonegoro, head of fiscal policy at
the  Finance Ministry , said Jan. 27.  Indonesia is less dependent on exports compared with its
neighbors, suggesting it may be more resilient to fluctuations
in global business cycles. The  International Monetary Fund 
predicts the economy will expand more than 6 percent this year.  The government’s target to lift more people out of poverty
in a country where the  World Bank  estimates 29 percent of the
population earn less than $2 a day has boosted  consumer spending 
and imports. The central bank had refrained from raising rates
since 2008 to support the growth push.  In a statement announcing its rate decision this month,
Bank Indonesia said it will keep a “close watch on future
inflation developments and strengthen the rupiah exchange-rate
policy in line with measures to curb future inflationary
pressures.”  The central bank expects inflation to be in the range of 4
percent to 6 percent this year and forecasts the economy will
probably expand by 6 percent to 6.5 percent in 2011. Indonesia’s
exports may rise 12 percent to $168 billion this year,
Coordinating Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa said Jan. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  