-- Mining Stocks Destined for Smaller Scrap Discount: Chart of Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2011-02-07T16:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/mining-stocks-destined-for-smaller-scrap-discount-chart-of-the-day.html
Metal producers are poised to track
energy companies more closely in the stock market as competition
from scrap dealers eases, according to Donald Coxe, chairman of
Coxe Advisors LLC.  As the CHART OF THE DAY illustrates, the Standard & Poor’s
500 Metals & Mining Index was left behind in the past 15 years
as the  S&P 500 Energy Index  more than quadrupled. The latter
gauge was the best performer among the S&P 500’s 10 main
industry groups during the period.  “Why the difference between the two extractive industries,
each of which faces the challenge of replacing its production in
a world of rising political risks for resource companies?” Coxe
wrote in his monthly commentary, Basic Points. “We suggest the
difference is scrap.”  Steel, for example, rose just 1.8 percent in the past 12
months as scrap steel climbed 51 percent. The price differential
between newly produced and existing metal narrowed 65 percent to
$82.50 a ton, according to data compiled by Metal Bulletin Plc
for U.S. market benchmarks.  The gap between energy and mining stocks may shrink as
well, according to Coxe, because scrap steel, copper, aluminum
and other metals are becoming scarce. Growing demand from  China 
in the last decade has depleted the supplies from North American
and European junkyards, he wrote.  “The rusted hand of the past shall be a dwindling
constraint on profitability of the industrial metal miners,”
the report said. This will lead to higher investment ratings for
the companies’ shares, as well as rising estimates for metal
prices.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  