-- Interior Needs 30% Boost in Budget to Speed Gulf Drilling, Landrieu Says
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2011-02-08T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/interior-department-budget-must-rise-30-in-2012-landrieu-says.html
The U.S. Interior Department, which
oversees drilling in the  Gulf of Mexico , should get a 30 percent
boost in its 2012 budget to speed processing of oil-exploration
permits, said Senator Mary Landrieu, a Democrat from  Louisiana .  “The office needs to be scaled up in order to accomplish
what we need to accomplish,” she said yesterday in an interview
in Washington. “It has been historically understaffed and
underfunded.”  President  Barack Obama  will present his proposal for the
2012 fiscal year budget on Feb. 14. Landrieu said she doesn’t
have information on what will be in the president’s proposal.  Almost four months after the U.S. lifted a ban on deep-
water exploration, drilling remains stalled because energy
companies haven’t proved to regulators they have ships and
equipment ready to handle catastrophic blowouts. BP Plc’s
disaster in April killed 11 and led to the worst U.S. offshore
oil spill.  Obama has singled out  energy industry  by proposing to
eliminating tax breaks for oil and natural-gas producers,
Landrieu told reporters yesterday.  “It continues to be a puzzlement to me to why this
administration continues to target the oil and gas industry,”
she said. “If the whole entire  tax code  goes under review, then
of course this should be under review, too.”  Obama is seeking to fund an 85 percent increase in
renewable-energy investments by scrapping taxpayer subsidies to
oil and gas producers. The cuts, which Obama says would be
absorbed by the profit-rich industry, follow his attempt a year
ago to scrap about $3.6 billion a year in fossil-fuel subsidies.
That proposal never gained support in Congress.  Senator Mark Begich, an Alaska Democrat, doesn’t expect
Obama’s proposal on the energy-industry taxes to pass this year
either, he said in a separate interview in  Washington  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  