-- Investors’ $102 Billion Metals Wager Showing Bull Market Intact
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 2011-02-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/investors-102-billion-precious-metals-wager-showing-bull-market-intact.html
After the worst January for precious
metals in two decades, investors still have a $102 billion bet
on higher prices, hoarding more gold than all but four central
banks and more silver than the U.S. can mine in almost 12 years.  The five analysts ranked by Bloomberg as the most accurate
over two years expect silver to rise as much as 24 percent
before the end of 2011 and gold 20 percent, the median of their
estimates show. UBS AG predicts the strongest industrial demand
for silver since at least 1990 and the second-highest sales of
exchange-traded gold products on record.  The decade-long surge in gold attracted fund managers from  John Paulson  to  George Soros  and is now spurring central banks
to add to their reserves for the first time in a generation.
Once written off as demand for photographic film waned, silver
found new uses in everything from solar panels to plasma
screens, making it the precious metal most used in industry. As
stocks rose 9 percent and Treasuries returned 67 percent since
the end of 2000, gold surged fivefold and silver sixfold.  “I had to chuckle when I saw reports that it was over for
gold,” said  Michael Cuggino , who helps manage $10 billion at
Permanent Portfolio Funds in  San Francisco , and has about 20
percent of his assets in gold. “Some investors have taken money
off the table after a significant run-up in 2010. If you look at
the macro environment, the instability around the world, the
worldwide  currency devaluation , these factors all bode well.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Precious Metals Index dropped
6.5 percent in January, the most for the month since 1991. Gold
traded in London retreated 6.2 percent and silver 9.3 percent.  Monthly Slumps  Gold has had bigger monthly slumps four times in the last
decade and plunged 34 percent from March to October 2008, before
jumping 47 percent in the following four months. Silver posted
larger monthly declines nine times over the same period and
plummeted 57 percent over three months in 2008. It rallied 73
percent in the next four months.  Silver will climb as high as $36 an ounce this year, from
$29.1375 now, and gold will reach $1,620 an ounce, from
$1,348.85, according to the Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Investors in exchange-traded products backed by gold own
2,028 metric tons, worth $88 billion, even after cutting their
holdings by 4.1 percent since December, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. ETPs trade on exchanges, with each share
representing metal held in a vault. They accounted for 21
percent of investment demand last year, according to GFMS Ltd.,
a London-based research firm. Silver-backed ETPs fell 4.4
percent to 14,511 tons worth about $14 billion since December.  CFTC Data  While hedge funds cut their bets on higher gold prices by
42 percent since October, they still hold a so-called net-long,
or bullish, position of more than 151,000 futures contracts,
almost three times the average over the last 18 years, according
to data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Central banks, the biggest owners, will add to reserves for
a third consecutive year in 2011, the first time that’s happened
since the 1970s, Deutsche Bank AG predicts.  The risk now is that an improving economic outlook will cut
the allure of precious metals as a wealth protector. The  MSCI
World  Index of equities added 4 percent since the start of
January, the best start to a year since 1998. The  International
Monetary Fund  on Jan. 25 increased its forecast for 2011 global
economic growth to 4.4 percent, from 4.2 percent.  “Gold is going quiet,” said Pete Sorrentino, who helps
manage $13.8 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati,
Ohio. “It’s good and healthy and characteristic of gold’s
stair-step rally. We’ll see a little more downward pressure and
then begin to trade sideways for an indeterminate time.”  SEC Reports  Gold accounts for 5 percent of the company’s $98 million
commodity fund, compared with 15 percent in mid-December.  Another risk is the biggest investors, whose holdings are
scheduled to be reported by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission on Feb. 14, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.
Prices will likely drop and volatility increase should quarterly
data show any of them cut their position, the bank said in a
report Jan. 28. Investors last disclosed their stakes as of
Sept. 30 in filings in November.  Paulson & Co. is the largest investor in the SPDR Gold
Trust, the biggest ETP backed by gold, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 7.8 percent stake was worth $4.03
billion on Sept. 30 and would be valued at $4.15 billion now.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson, 55, declined to comment.  Soros Fund  Soros Fund Management LLC, which manages about $27 billion,
also listed the SPDR Gold Trust as its biggest holding in a Nov.
15 filing. Soros described gold at the World Economic Forum’s
January meeting in Davos, Switzerland, last year as “the
ultimate asset bubble.” In a Nov. 15 speech in Toronto the 80-
year-old said conditions for the metal to keep rising were
“pretty ideal” and at this year’s Davos forum said the boom in
commodities may last “a couple of years” longer.    Michael Vachon , a spokesman for Soros, declined to comment.  The precious metals most used in industry outpaced gold
since the  U.S. economy  returned to growth in the third quarter
of 2009. Palladium rose threefold, silver more than doubled and
platinum jumped 57 percent, compared with gold’s 46 percent
gain. Platinum and palladium are used in catalytic converters
for cars and trucks. The  London  Metal Exchange index of
industrial metals from aluminum to zinc jumped 86 percent.  Industrial demand for silver, excluding photography, will
rise 18 percent to 478 million ounces this year, according to
UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank. Investors will buy 450 tons of
gold through ETPs this year, the Zurich-based bank forecasts.  Mining Index  The 16-member Philadelphia Stock Exchange Gold and Silver
Index, led by  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc . and  Barrick
Gold Corp ., fell 8.5 percent this year as metal prices dropped.
All but one firm in the mining index is forecast to report an
increase in annual earnings, according to the median of analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Higher silver prices hurt the profit of Rochester, New
York-based  Eastman Kodak Co . last year and are a “significant
headwind” in 2011, Chairman Antonio M. Perez said on a
conference call Jan. 26. Agfa-Gevaert NV,  Europe ’s biggest maker
of healthcare imaging systems, said in a statement Nov. 15 that
its Agfa HealthCare division was increasing prices for all
imaging film products because of higher raw-material costs.  Bullion’s slide from a record is attracting buyers. “We
struggle to recall a month when our total physical sales have
been stronger,” led by Chinese gold demand, and turnover on the
Shanghai Gold Exchange in January was a record, Edel Tully, an
analyst at UBS, said in a report last week. “Elevated physical
demand usually signals an impending bottom,” she said.  Silver Coins  Silver buying is also accelerating. One-ounce silver coin
sales from the U.S. Mint jumped to a record last month. Ex
Oriente Lux AG, based in Reutlingen,  Germany , will start adding
the metal to its U.S. ATMs that sell gold in banks, shopping
centers and jewelry stores this month.  Investor demand for precious metals accelerated after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 and
as governments and central banks led by the  Federal Reserve 
pumped more than $2 trillion into the world financial system.
That stoked concern that inflation will accelerate. The Fed cut  interest rates  to near zero in December 2008 and have kept them
there since and Greece and Ireland got bailouts.  “At the moment, people still have fear about inflation,
about the debt crisis, and I don’t see any resolution to the
debt crisis when the Fed is buying debt again and again,” said
Thorsten Proettel, an analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wurttemberg in
Stuttgart. “Most people will be loyal to their investment
because the fear doesn’t evaporate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Pham-Duy Nguyen in  Seattle  at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 