-- Italian Banks’ Outlook to Remain Negative in 2011, Moody’s Says
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2011-02-07T06:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/italian-banks-outlook-to-remain-negative-in-2011-moody-s-analysts-say.html
The outlook for Italian banks is
expected to remain negative “through most if not all” of 2011
because of deteriorating asset quality, modest capital adequacy
and weak profitability, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The asset quality and capital adequacy of Italian lenders
are below the European average, Carlo Gori, a senior financial
analyst at Moody’s, said in a phone interview. The nation’s
banks must improve those measures before Moody’s can consider a
change in outlook to “stable,” said Gori and Henry MacNevin,
the team leader for Italian banks.    Italy ’s biggest banks, including  UniCredit SpA ,  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA ,  Banco Popolare SC  and  Banca Monte dei Paschi di
Siena SpA , are cutting costs and shedding non-strategic assets
to strengthen finances and boost capital after the country’s
worst recession since the Second World War.  “The outlook for Italian banks reflects the economic
environment and low  interest rates , but we don’t expect any
dramatic deterioration or see a high risk of any banking
crisis,” MacNevin said.  Monte Paschi, Italy’s third-largest lender, “is among
banks that need more capital,” Gori said. The measures it has
adopted to boost  capital ratios  are sufficient to match its
current Moody’s rating, he said. Moody’s has an A2 rating with a
stable outlook for Monte Paschi’s long-term bank deposits.  Stress Tests  Monte Paschi, which showed the weakest results among
Italian banks in European stress tests, is cutting costs, making
disposals and reducing risk-weighted assets. “If it implements
a capital increase, the rating may improve,” Gori said. The
outlook for the bank will remain stable as long as its core Tier
1 ratio remains between 7 percent and 7.5 percent, he said.  The Siena, Italy-based lender has said several times that
it doesn’t need to raise fresh capital. It doesn’t disclose its
core Tier 1, a measure of financial strength.  Banco Popolare is seeking to raise 2 billion euros through
a rights offer that ends Feb. 11. The capital increase, 2010
results and the bank’s new business plan will be considered when
Moody’s reviews the credit outlook, Gori said. Moody’s has an A2
rating with a negative outlook on long-term bank deposits for
Verona, Italy-based Banco Popolare.  Italian banks “are in better shape than their Spanish
counterparties, where a huge restructuring process is ongoing,”
MacNevin said.  France  is the only country in western  Europe  with
a stable outlook because it’s weathered the crisis “quite
well,” he said.  Retail Funding  Italian banks demonstrated their ability to shift from
wholesale to retail funding sources during the recent sovereign
debt crisis, the analysts said. The retail funding of most
Italian lenders is a strength for the nation’s financial system,
which is less reliant on wholesale funding than other European
countries.  “We expect that the Italian banks will be able to
refinance bonds maturing through 2011, albeit possibly at a
higher cost, given the current market conditions,” Gori said.
Italian banks must refinance at least 118 billion euros ($161
billion) of debt this year, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 