-- Kenyan Leaders Say Parliament to Decide if Judicial Nominations are Legal
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2011-02-07T15:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/kenyan-leaders-say-parliament-to-decide-legal-posts-update1-.html
Kenyan President  Mwai Kibaki  and
Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  agreed to let parliament decide
their dispute over the legality of nominations to four senior
government posts.  Odinga last month rejected Kibaki’s appointment of a new
chief justice, attorney general, director of public prosecutions
and budget controller, saying he wasn’t consulted as required by
law.  After meeting today, Kibaki and Odinga agreed to “respect
the ongoing parliamentary process and its outcome,” according
to an e-mailed statement from the  president’s office  in Nairobi,
the capital.  Parliamentary Speaker Kenneth Marende on Feb. 3 told two
separate committees of legislators to rule on the legality of
the nominations.  Kenya ’s High Court declared the same day that
the appointments were illegal, Citizen TV reported.  The two leaders today also agreed that the government will
ask the  United Nations Security Council  to approve a one-year
deferral of cases against Kenyans allegedly responsible for
instigating post-election violence in 2008.  In that time, the government would try to establish a local
court to handle the trials so that the  International Criminal
Court  would refer the cases back to Kenya. Previous failures by
Kenya to push through changes required to set up a local
tribunal led the ICC to pursue its own probe.  Election Violence  Allegations of vote-rigging in a disputed December 2007
presidential election triggered ethnic clashes in Kenya that
left 1,500 people dead and displaced another 300,000. Two months
of fighting subsided when Kibaki formed a power-sharing
government with Odinga, then the opposition leader.  ICC Chief Prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo in December
identified six Kenyans, among them Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  and lawmaker William Ruto, as suspects in orchestrating
the clashes. All six men deny the charges.  “The one-year deferment will give the country the
necessary time to establish the local mechanism as envisaged in
the ongoing constitutional process,” according to the
statement.  The power-sharing agreement promised changes such as
drawing up a new constitution, which was enacted in August,
reorganizing the judiciary, redistributing land and curbing
presidential powers.  “The prime minister is confident that parliament will send
back the nomination to the two principals,” Salim Lone, an
adviser to Odinga, said in an e-mailed statement today. “The
president and the prime minister will then ensure that the
constitutional requirements for the submission of such
nominations is adhered to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 