-- Korea's Won Gains, Bonds Drop as U.S. Jobless Rate Boosts Export Outlook
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2011-02-07T07:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/korea-s-won-gains-bonds-drop-as-u-s-jobless-rate-boosts-export-outlook.html
  South Korea ’s won strengthened and
bonds fell after an unexpected decline in U.S. unemployment
improved the outlook for the North Asian nation’s exports.  The benchmark  Kospi index  rose after official data on
Feb. 4 showed January’s jobless rate in the U.S. declined to
9 percent from December’s 9.4 percent. That was less than the
9.5 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. The U.S. is South Korea’s second-biggest export
market.  “The stock market is very good,” said Sam Hong, a
currency dealer at  Shinhan Bank  in Seoul. Authorities “don’t
want to see the won go under the 1,100 level in the short
term to protect exporters,” he said.  The won strengthened 0.9 percent to 1,107.50 per dollar
at the 3 p.m. close in  Seoul , compared with 1,116.95 on Feb.
1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Local financial
markets were shut from Feb. 2 to 4 for the Lunar New Year
holidays. The currency has advanced 1.3 percent so far
against the dollar this year, the best performance among  Asia ’s 10 most-traded currencies, excluding the yen.  The Bank of Korea said today the nation’s foreign-
exchange reserves rose for a second month in January,
reaching a record $296 billion from $292 billion in December.  South Korea’s three-year government bonds fell for a
fourth day on speculation the central bank will raise its
benchmark interest rate at its meeting on Feb. 11.  Inflation Concern  The yield on the 3 percent note due October 2013
increased 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 4.09
percent, according to prices from Korea Stock Exchange. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “The Korean economy as well as the  U.S. economy  is
expanding fast,” said Seo Chul Soo, a bond trader at Daewoo
Securities Co. in Seoul. “Concern on inflation is spreading.
Market participants have already expected a rate hike.”  Eight out of ten economists in a Bloomberg News survey
predict authorities will boost the seven-day repurchase rate
by 25 basis points to 3 percent. Two expected no change.  Inflation accelerated more than forecast in January,
breaching the central bank’s 4 percent ceiling. The consumer-  price index  rose 4.1 percent from a year earlier, after
gaining 3.5 percent in December, Statistics Korea said on Feb.
1 in Gwacheon, south of Seoul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 