-- National Australia First-Quarter Cash Profit Rises 18%
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2011-02-08T05:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/national-australia-first-quarter-cash-profit-rises-18-on-business-lending.html
  National Australia Bank Ltd ., the
nation’s fourth-largest lender, posted an 18 percent increase in
first-quarter profit and said it’s well placed to absorb fallout
from government banking reforms and natural disasters.  Unaudited cash earnings for the three months ended Dec. 31
rose to A$1.3 billion ($1.3 billion), the Melbourne-based bank
said in a statement today. That compares with A$1.1 billion
profit reported in the same period a year earlier.  Chief Executive Officer Cameron Clyne has stoked earnings
by expanding the bank’s business lending, which outpaced rivals
in the quarter, after Australia’s regulator rejected his bid for
asset manager Axa Asia Pacific Holdings Ltd. The shares rose to
the highest in three months after Clyne said he expects to see
demand for business lending accelerate this year.  “The market’s assessment of the risk associated with NAB
will continue to decline each time the bank delivers a sound
‘business as usual’ outcome, as they have today,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages about $350 million at White Funds
Management Pty in Sydney. “The continued reduction in bad debts,
and limited impact of recent weather events were important
issues the market was looking for.”  National Australia shares gained 1.9 percent to A$25.48 at
the 4:10 p.m. close in Sydney, taking this year’s gain to 7.5
percent, the best performer among the nation’s four largest
lenders.  The charge for bad and doubtful debts was A$493 million,
and includes a A$25 million provision for floods in Queensland
in December, the bank said.  Disaster Impact  “In the key market of Australia we have seen ongoing
improvement in key economic indicators, but again, there has to
be some cause for caution given the potential impact of the
floods” and Tropical Cyclone Yasi that battered Queensland last
week, Clyne said on a call with analysts today.  “Clearly these natural disasters will disrupt near-term
activity, but could be expected to add to growth when the
recovery phase kicks in” later in the year, he added.  The central bank forecasts economic growth will strengthen
in the second half of this year as households and businesses
rebuild after torrential rains in Queensland affected about
30,000 properties, shut coal mines, cut rail lines and damaged
crops last month.  The central bank said the inundation of Queensland is
likely to cut 0.5 percentage point from gross domestic product
in 2010-2011. The economy will then experience a “strong
recovery” in the June quarter, officials said Feb. 4.  Increased Share  Demand for mortgages and business loans waned after the
central bank’s seven interest-rate increases from October 2009
to November 2010. Lending to businesses fell 0.3 percent in
December, the sixth straight month of declines, and mortgage
loan growth stalled at 0.5 percent, matching the weakest pace
since June, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia said Jan. 31.  Still, National Australia Bank increased its market share
of business banking by 96 basis points, or 0.96 percentage point,
to 23.8 percent, as the entire market shrank 1.7 percent,
today’s statement said.  “Business banking continues to gain market share,”
particularly in lending to small- and medium-sized companies in
what “remains a subdued business credit environment,” Clyne
said in the statement. Recent discussions with customers in
Queensland suggest many businesses will boost borrowing this
year, he said on the call with analysts.  The bank’s share of the mortgage market rose 31 basis
points to 13.61 percent. The number of group loans more than 90
days overdue edged down to 1.86 percent on Dec. 31 compared to
1.88 percent on Sept. 30.  ‘Solid’ Result  “The result does look solid and the bank appears on track
to meet guidance,” said Rhett Kessler, who helps manage about
$1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Sydney. “The key drivers
of funding costs, credit growth and cost pressures seem to be
under control.”  National  Australia  Bank said its group margin was
“slightly lower” in the second half the 2010 financial year,
partly because of higher funding costs.  The bank has raised about A$12.6 billion of unsecured term
wholesale funding in the financial year-to-date, as part of its
plan to raise between A$25 billion and A$30 billion in the full
year.  Clyne was among bank chiefs who faced public and political
condemnation for raising borrowing costs in November by more
than the central bank’s quarter percentage point increase. The
move, which banks said was required because of higher funding
costs, prompted Treasurer  Wayne Swan  to introduce measures aimed
at boosting competition between lenders.  Funding Costs  In addition, international changes to  bank regulations  may
“have the effect of increasing the cost of funds for banks if
regulators and government don’t get the application of the new
rules right,” Clyne said today. “This would adversely impact
bank customers and shareholders.”    Westpac Banking Corp . CEO Gail Kelly said Jan. 21 that the
government’s proposals, which may include allowing banks to
raise funding using covered bonds, will lower costs and
influence bank interest rates. Clyne said today the potential
move was “welcome.”  National Australia Bank’s Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure
of its ability to absorb potential losses, rose to 8.96 percent
from 8.91 percent at the end of September, the bank said.  The bank scrapped a A$13.3 billion bid for Axa Asia Pacific
in September after the regulator blocked the deal. Rival AMP Ltd.
later secured a sweetened offer for the company.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  