-- New Jersey City Called Biggest `Melting Pot' as State Diversity Increases
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2011-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/new-jersey-city-is-biggest-melting-pot-of-all-mayor-says.html
Hudson County is  New Jersey ’s most-
diverse. At its heart, and within sight of Ellis Island, lies
Jersey City, the state’s most polyglot large municipality,
according to U.S. Census Bureau figures.  There’s a 77 percent probability that any two Hudson County
residents, chosen at random, will be different in terms of race
or ethnicity, according to Census data analyzed by Bloomberg. In 
Jersey City, that ratio rises to 82 percent.  Statewide, the diversity index climbed 13 percent to 60,
from 2000, while in the county it rose 2.2 percent. In  Jersey
City , where 75 languages are spoken in the  public schools , the
racial and ethnic mix of residents was little changed from a
decade earlier. The community, dubbed “Wall Street West” by
some, sits across the  Hudson River  from the towers of  Lower
Manhattan  and overlooks the Statue of Liberty.  “If America’s a melting pot, then Jersey City is truly the
melting pot and it always has been,” Mayor Jerramiah Healy said
in an interview. “We were the reception committee for the world
and that really hasn’t changed.”  Ellis Island , an icon of America’s immigration heritage,
connects by footbridge to Jersey City’s Liberty State Park.
Healy said his parents, who arrived from Ireland in the 1930s,
settled here. More than 12 million people came to the U.S.
through the island’s facilities from 1892 to 1954, when it
closed, according to the National Park Service. The U.S.
government maintains the buildings there.  The earlier waves of Irish, Italian and German immigrants
have been supplanted in Jersey City by those arriving from Latin
America, the Middle East and  Africa , the mayor said.  Population Breakdown  “It’s really quite diverse,” said  William Frey , a senior
fellow at the  Brookings Institution , a nonprofit research
organization in  Washington . He said Hudson County is about 31
percent white, 11 percent black and 13 percent Asian, in terms
of its racial makeup, with 42 percent counted as Hispanic. The
U.S. as a whole is 65 percent white, he said.  Census  figures  released last week gave the first glimpse of
the changes in state demographics since 2000. The shifts in
population nationwide will provide a basis for redrawing
congressional districts. Data for New Jersey,  Virginia ,  Louisiana  and Mississippi were released first because their
political calendars call for some of the earliest elections.  Jersey City, where the population grew 3 percent from 2000
to 247,597 residents last year, benefitted as immigrants flocked
to urban areas, said James Hughes, dean of the Edward J.
Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at  Rutgers
University  in  New Brunswick . The state’s second-most populous
city, trailing  Newark , is about 26 percent black and almost 28
percent Hispanic, according to Census data.  Undercounted by Census  Healy’s office contends the  Jersey City ’s residents were
undercounted and the actual population may be as high as
267,000. The Census underestimated the figure in 2000, which
meant the city received $40 million to $50 million less in
federal aid during the past decade, he said.  “We were conservatively undercounted by 20,000,” Healy
said. “There’s a general apathy, people are busy going about
their lives.”  Luxury condominiums and new construction blossomed along
Hudson County’s “Gold Coast,” a waterfront area with Manhattan
views, during the past decade as developers found easy financing
and willing buyers. Along with Jersey city, the stretch includes
Hoboken, home of  Jon Corzine , a former governor who is chief
executive officer of New York-based broker MF Global Holdings
Inc., as well as Weehawken,  North Bergen , Secaucus and others.  Trans-Hudson Boom  Jersey City’s waterfront was dubbed “Wall Street West” as
securities firms from across the Hudson sparked a building boom
in the early 1980s. The municipality boasts 17 million square
feet (1.6 million square meters) of  office space  and sports the
state’s tallest skyscraper, anchored by  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc ., according to the city’s economic development agency.  Empty-nesters and 20-something professionals flocking to
urban areas such as Hoboken and Jersey City fueled the growth,
Rutgers’s Hughes said in an interview. At the same time, many
rural and suburban communities passed local ordinances
restricting home building or purchased open space to keep it
from developers, he said.  “Those areas were almost taken out of the development
cycle,” Hughes said. “The state as a whole grew slower than
the rest of the nation. That’s been true for the last three
decades: We’re a dense, mature state.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  