-- NFL Unable to Seat 400 Fans at Super Bowl Stadium, Offers $2,700 Refund
-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2011-02-07T01:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/nfl-unable-to-seat-400-fans-at-super-bowl-stadium-offers-2-700-refund.html
The  National Football League  was
unable to seat 400 ticket holders at the Super Bowl as temporary
seating wasn’t completed before today’s game.  The league said it would refund triple the face value of
the $800 tickets to the game at  Cowboys Stadium  in Arlington,  Texas , between the Green Bay Packers and Pittsburgh Steelers.  The NFL and Cowboys owner Jerry Jones were trying to break
the Super Bowl attendance record of 103,985, set at the Rose
Bowl in  Pasadena ,  California , in 1980, by putting in temporary
stands above the end zones, along the sidelines and selling
standing-room only tickets for stairwells.  “This is ruining my entire experience,” said Jan Lamers,
52, of Appleton,  Wisconsin . Lamers owns a share of the Packers -
- the NFL’s only publicly owned team -- and said she paid $800
for her ticket.  Four of the temporary seating areas remained empty as fans
entered the stadium and players warmed up.  Some fans who weren’t allowed in several hours before
kickoff stood outside a chain-link fence chanting “We want our
seats!”  The league said it relocated 850 ticket holders who weren’t
able to sit in their assigned seats. The NFL said it withholds
tickets for emergencies.  TV Or Standing Room Only  The 400 fans that weren’t able to be seated were taken
inside the stadium to watch the game on televisions in a club
section behind the Pittsburgh bench, the league said in a
separate statement. They also had the option of viewing the game
from standing-room-only platforms in each corner of the stadium.
Each of the 400 fans will also receive a refund triple the
ticket’s face value.  Other fans sitting in temporary seats installed for the  Super Bowl  said they were disappointed that the views from their
seats were obstructed. Throughout the stadium, seats were put on
risers that fit just under the seating decks above.  “This overhang is a little ridiculous,” said Jen Malara,
30, a program analyst from Pittsburgh who was sitting in
temporary seats installed in the stadium’s eastern end zone.  Two seats away, Chris Piwinsky, 32, said he wasn’t happy he
couldn’t see the world’s largest video board, which hangs from
the middle of the stadium. He said he paid $2,400 for his seat,
which is in the 200 level, online.  No View  “So, I’ve been walking around the stadium for about 20
minutes taking pictures of the scoreboard,” said Piwinsky, a
systems analyst from Bloomington,  Illinois .  Two video boards, measuring 160 feet long and 72 feet high,
hang about 100 feet above the field. A pair of smaller boards,
53 feet long and 30 feet high, are also attached and face the
end zones.  Not all were upset with what they had to put up with at the
Super Bowl.  Elias Rodriguez, 52, of  Dallas , paid $350 for a standing-
room ticket between the third and fourth levels and said he was
happy.  “It’s a lot better than up there,” he said, motioning
toward the stadium’s uppermost seats. “I was real surprised --
good view.”  Rodriguez, who attended a Cowboys game at the stadium
during the regular season, said he wouldn’t have paid as much
for a regular-season game. “It’s the Super Bowl,” he said.  Some said too much effort was put into setting the record
at the expense of fans.    Jerry Jones  should not have sold these seats,” said
Thomas Campion, 49, managing director at Merit Capital Partners
in  Chicago . Campion paid $900 each for tickets and his family of
six.  “I feel like we’re being taken advantage of,” Diane
Campion, 50, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Lee in Arlington, Texas, at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net 
David Wethe in Arlington, Texas, at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  