-- Nine Stocks That Only Short Sellers Should Love: John Dorfman
-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 2011-02-07T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/nine-stocks-only-short-sellers-should-embrace-commentary-by-john-dorfman.html
February for me is the grumpiest
month.  Perhaps that’s why at this time of year I’ve often compiled
a list of stocks to avoid, calling it the Nonsensical Nine.  The securities are chosen using a computerized screening
process. I start with the universe of U.S. equities with a
market value of $1 billion or more, and a price that is at least
three times book value (corporate net worth per share). As of
Feb. 2, 534 stocks qualified.  Then I used Bloomberg software to find the three companies
that sold for the highest multiple of earnings and the three
that sold for the biggest multiple of per-share sales. These
stocks are priced on the assumption that everything will go
right for them.  Finally, I added the three companies with the most debt
relative to stockholders’ equity. High debt leaves little room
to maneuver if things don’t go according to plan.  As a warning list, this compilation has a decent record.
Over the years a total of 54 stocks have received this
designation. Their average 12-month performance has been a loss
of 1.6 percent, including dividends. For comparison, the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index returned an average of 5.3 percent
over the six one-year periods following publication of prior
lists.  Stop Signs  People who hold these shares should review their positions,
potential buyers should be wary and short sellers hoping to
profit from a stock’s decline should take note.  The analysis used diluted earnings per share excluding
extraordinary items.  The highest price-to-earnings ratio belongs to  Legacy
Reserves LP , an oil and natural gas limited partnership based in
Midland,  Texas .  In the past four quarters, Legacy’s earnings totaled a
penny a share, as two losing quarters almost canceled out two
profitable ones. The stock trades for about $29 a share, so the
trailing 12-month P/E ratio is about 2,900.  As with many energy partnerships, Legacy’s main charm is
its dividend yield, currently 7.2 percent. Still, I consider the
shares overpriced. In addition to that startling P/E, the price-
to-sales ratio is high, at 5.7.  Allergan Inc., an Irvine, California, health-care company,
had the second-highest P/E. Its stock price of about $71 is
almost 1,200 times its recent depressed earnings.  Too Pricy  In its best year, 2009, Allergan earned $2.78 a share
excluding extraordinary items. The current share price is 26
times that figure, suggesting that the stock is pricier than it
should be.    Ultimate Software Group Inc . of Weston,  Florida , had the
third-highest P/E ratio, well over 800. The company, which sells
payroll and human-resources software, saw its shares rise to
about $51 from about $32 during the past six months. Executives
at the company deny a published story that it’s for sale.  Even if it is acquired, I doubt that Ultimate Software will
fetch a fat takeover premium. The stock already sells for fancy
multiples of book value (20) and sales (almost six). Yet the
company lost money in seven of the 10 years through 2009.  The highest price-to-sales ratio in the group belongs to  Pharmasset Inc ., a Princeton, New Jersey-based pharmaceutical
company. Its primary focus is developing drugs to treat human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis C.  No Profits  In its last fiscal year, Pharmasset’s revenue was about $1
million, yet the market awards it a $1.8 billion valuation. It
has issued stock six times since early 2007. If investors ever
lose their appetite for the company’s shares, I figure
Pharmasset would burn through its $127 million cash hoard in two
or three years.  Two biotech companies have the second- and third-highest
price-sales ratios. Seattle-based  Dendreon Corp ., which
specializes in developing therapies to treat cancer, sells for
218 times sales.  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc ., located in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , goes for 56 times sales. Like many
biotechs, these haven’t yet seen any annual profits.  Then we come to the debt measurement.  Tenneco Inc ., an auto-
parts maker based in  Lake Forest ,  Illinois , had the highest
debt-to-equity ratio, about 260 to 1, as of Feb. 2. Six of 11
analysts who follow Tenneco rate it a “buy.”  However, stock
sales by Tenneco insiders have increased in the past year. I’ll
look for my auto-parts investments elsewhere.  Debt Burden    Alliance Data Systems Corp ., located in Plano, Texas, has a
debt-to-equity ratio of about 81 to 1. The company manages more
than 80 branded credit-card programs for retailers and airlines.
Conventional wisdom says that a steady business can support a
lot of debt, and that bromide may apply here. Nevertheless, this
debt level makes me uneasy.  Dallas-based  Energy Transfer Equity LP  is a publicly traded
limited partnership that transports and stores natural gas. It
also operates a propane distribution operation. Its debt is
about 54 times equity. Again, it’s a steady business, but debt
ratios of this kind leave little room for error.  Disclosure note: I have no long or short positions in any
of the stocks discussed in this week’s column. The spouse of one
of my partners works for Vertex.  (John Dorfman, chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in  Boston ,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:  John Dorfman  at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  