-- Obama Seeks Business Support for Lower Corporate Tax
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2011-02-07T17:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/obama-seeks-business-support-for-cutting-burdensome-corporate-tax-code.html
President  Barack Obama  urged
businesses to join him in an effort to change a “burdensome”
corporate tax code, calling for “something smarter, something
simpler, something fairer.”  In a speech to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce today, Obama
said “various loopholes and carve-outs” distort economic
decisions. He drew attention to the way that the deduction for
interest encourages companies to borrow for new investments
rather than use equity.  “You’ve got too many companies ending up making decisions
based on what their tax director says instead of what their
engineer designs or what their factories produce,” Obama said.
“And that puts our entire economy at a disadvantage.”  Obama announced no new tax proposals in the speech. He
reiterated his call from the State of the Union address on Jan.
25 for cutting the 35 percent top corporate  tax rate  without
increasing the federal  budget deficit . He made today’s speech in
front of business executives and Chamber officials who have
opposed many of the administration’s economic policies.  The relationship between Obama and the Chamber will be
central to efforts to overhaul the tax code, because they can
shape the framework of the debate in Congress, said Mel Schwarz,
a partner at the Washington national tax office of  Grant
Thornton LLP .  ‘Key Players’  “The two key players in getting the process started are at
least as much business and the administration as they are
congressional Republicans and congressional Democrats,” Schwarz
said.  When Japan lowers its corporate tax rate this year the U.S.
rate, when combined with state and local income taxes, will be
the highest in the world.  Chamber officials and business executives say the high
corporate rate makes U.S.-based corporations uncompetitive with
companies based in most industrialized nations. Other companies
face lower marginal tax rates and no taxes on income they earn
outside their home countries.  Lowering the corporate rate without increasing the deficit
would mean eliminating at least some deductions and credits that
companies now use. Businesses that have paid low effective tax
rates, such as  General Electric Co . and  Pfizer Inc ., could pay
more taxes under a system with a lower rate.  Tax Code Overhaul  Republicans, including Ways and Means Committee Chairman
David Camp, say they want to pair changes to the corporate tax
code with an overhaul of the individual tax code. They note that
about 6 million companies, including many small businesses, pay
taxes under the individual tax system. An overhaul could
eliminate some deductions without lowering their tax rates.  In his Jan. 25 speech, Obama said he was “prepared to
join” advocates of changing the individual tax code. He and
other administration officials have kept that issue separate
from the call for corporate tax changes, and Obama did not
mention it in his remarks to the Chamber.  Obama also did not address another request from business
leaders on the corporate  tax code  -- to consider a
“territorial” tax system that would not tax profits earned
outside the U.S.  In both of the budgets he has submitted as president, Obama
has proposed making it more difficult for companies to defer
U.S. taxes on profits they earn outside the country. He is set
to propose his fiscal 2012 budget Feb. 14.  Urged Investment  Obama also urged corporations to invest some of the almost
$2 trillion they have on their balance sheets to expand and hire
workers. He noted that a December tax law allowed businesses to
write off 100 percent of certain capital investments, rather
than take depreciation deductions over several years.  “As all of you know, it’s investments made now that will
pay off as the economy rebounds,” Obama said. “And as you
hire, you know that more Americans working will mean more sales
for your companies. It will mean more demand for your products
and services. It will mean higher profits for your companies. We
can create a virtuous circle.”  Large companies such as  Eaton Corp . and  Honeywell
International Inc . have said that because of low  interest rates ,
they see little value in accelerating deductions.  The expensing tax incentive, combined with the interest
deduction that Obama criticized earlier in the speech, provides
an opportunity for companies to make arbitrage gains, tax
analysts have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  