-- Obama Will Press Chamber Businesses to Put Cash to Work in Boosting Jobs
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2011-02-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/obama-will-tell-chamber-businesses-to-put-cash-to-use-for-jobs.html
President  Barack Obama  will challenge
American business leaders today to move their cash from the
sidelines to invest in the U.S. as part of what he will call a
shared burden to boost the nation’s economy.  Obama will make a case in a speech to the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, which has been among his strongest critics, that he is
doing his part to improve the business climate after a free-
trade agreement with South Korea, a deal to extend Bush-era tax
cuts, and a State of the Union address that proposed more
government support for infrastructure and “innovation.”  “If we make America the best place to do business,
businesses should make their mark here in America,” Obama said
in a Feb. 5  radio address , previewing today’s message to the
country’s largest business lobby. “They should set up shop
here, and hire our workers, and pay decent wages, and invest in
the future of this nation. That’s their obligation.”  Obama, 49, will be delivering that message to a group that
went all out to defeat or oppose key parts of signature
initiatives of the first two years of his presidency -- the
health-care and financial-regulation overhauls -- and spent more
than $30 million on the 2010 elections, mostly to back
Republicans.  The speech, his first formal address to the chamber, will
take place at the group’s headquarters across Lafayette Park in
Washington. He’ll march under a two-story-tall “ JOBS ” sign
that has been visible from the White House for the last nine
months.  The chamber, which represents companies such as  Caterpillar
Inc . and  Lockheed Martin Corp ., has complained that Obama has
cost the U.S. economy jobs while pursuing the health and climate
legislation it opposed.  Defusing Tensions  Since Republicans took control of the  House of
Representatives  in the elections, Obama has taken steps that
have defused tensions and earned praise from corporate critics
such as  Ivan Seidenberg , chief executive officer of  Verizon
Communications Inc .  The deal Obama reached with Republicans to extend the tax
cuts for two years and the appointment of former JPMorgan &
Chase Co. executive  William Daley  as his chief of staff were
cheered by the chamber. So was his commitment to push for the
long-stalled trade accord with  South Korea .  “You have to give the president his due,” said Thomas Collamore, the chamber’s senior vice president of
communications. “Certainly, the atmospherics are different, and
that’s all to the better.”  S&P, Corporate Profits  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has risen about 7 percent
since the tax-cut deal was reached on Dec. 6. Many private
forecasters raised their projections for the economy after the
compromise, with the median forecast for gross domestic product
growth in 2011 at 3.1 percent in January, up from 2.6 percent in
December, according to a monthly Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  Companies themselves are doing better. While the U.S.
unemployment rate has remained at least 9 percent for the
longest stretch since monthly data was first compiled in 1948,
U.S. corporations by the end of last year’s third quarter saw
their profits rebound to a near record and nonfinancial
companies held $1.9 trillion in cash on their balance sheets,
according to Commerce Department and Federal Reserve data.  The corporate cash is being eyed by Obama for investment to
stimulate the economy, by investment bankers for mergers and
acquisitions deals, and by shareholders for dividend increases.    Tom Donohue , the chamber’s president, has said uncertainty
about new regulations is prompting executives to hold back on
hiring. Companies shouldn’t be prodded to take on more American
workers, he said.  Continuing Conflict  “The most important thing to tell a company is to return a
reasonable return to their investors,” Donohue said on Jan. 11.  The regulatory decisions over the coming year that will
determine how the health-care and financial-regulation laws are
enforced will be a continuing source of conflict.  And the chamber sent a 10-page list of complaints about
other proposed regulations to House Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform Chairman  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican.  The Dec. 29 letter, which is being made public for the
first time today, argues that Environmental Protection Agency
proposals to crack down on hazards from industrial boilers, lead
paint and coal ash are examples of the agency “attempting to
modify, re-issue, or re-interpret virtually every controversial
environmental regulatory decision of the past decade.”  ‘Threaten Energy Resources’  The chamber is also lobbying the new congressional
Republican majority to pass legislation to prevent the EPA from
adopting proposed rules to limit  carbon emissions  from  power
plants  and factories under the four-decade-old  Clean Air Act .
Such a move would “threaten energy resources,” the chamber
said in a report released Feb. 1.  The two sides differ over other issues such as
infrastructure spending and corporate taxes.  The chamber says it wants changes in rules to boost private
investment, not further  government spending .  “There is a huge amount of private capital sitting on the
sidelines,” and Obama should concentrate on revamping rules to
free that up, Collamore said.  Picking up a refrain the chamber has complained about for
years, Obama said in his State of the Union speech that U.S.
companies “are hit with one of the highest corporate tax rates
in the world. It makes no sense, and it has to change.”  Overhauling the tax structure, however, must be done
without raising the deficit, Obama said, a pledge the chamber’s
tax counsel, Caroline Harris  declines  to make.  Even with the recent attempts at rapprochement, the White
House doesn’t expect to become too close to the business
community. Asked about the relationship at the Bloomberg
Breakfast in  Washington  on Feb. 2, Daley set modest goals.  “All you want from any constituent group like that is
respect and a belief that you’re trying to do the right thing,”
Daley said. “And if they don’t like your rhetoric or they think
you’re picking on them, you know, sometimes you have to pick on
them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 