-- Obama Urges U.S. Business Leaders to Increase Spending for Good of Country
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2011-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/obama-says-u-s-business-must-work-together-as-competition-grows-fierce-.html
President  Barack Obama  joined
patriotism with economics as he urged U.S. business leaders to
“get in the game” in support of their country by spending more
cash.  “Now is the time to invest in America,” Obama said in a
speech yesterday to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, arguing that
his policies have laid a foundation for business success.  Obama focused on corporate executives’ shared
responsibility for the nation’s economic growth, echoing the
rhetoric of President  John F. Kennedy , who called on Americans
to “ask what you can do for your country” during the Cold War.  “As we work with you to make America a better place to do
business, I’m hoping that all of you are thinking what you can
do for America,” Obama said. “Ask yourselves what you can do
to hire more American workers, what you can do to support the
American economy and invest in this nation.”  Johanna Schneider, who directs external relations for the  Business Roundtable , an association of almost 200 chief
executives of global companies, said corporations owe their
shareholders a duty to make investment decisions based on
economic conditions.  “Jobs will follow demand,” Schneider said. “Unless you
see sustained demand for your product or your service, you
cannot from a fiduciary standpoint invest in more employees.”  ‘I Get It’  While the U.S. unemployment rate has remained at least 9
percent for the longest stretch since monthly data was first
compiled in 1948, U.S. corporations by the end of last year’s
third quarter saw profits rebound to a near record. Nonfinancial
companies held $1.9 trillion in cash on their balance sheets,
government data shows.  In remarks to the chamber, which opposed key parts of his
signature initiatives over the past two years, Obama said he is
doing his part to improve the business climate after a free-
trade agreement with  South Korea , a deal to extend Bush-era tax
cuts, and a State of the Union address that proposed more
government support for infrastructure and “innovation.”  “I understand that you’re under incredible pressure to cut
costs and keep your margins up,” Obama told the chamber, which
represents companies such as  Caterpillar Inc . and  Lockheed
Martin Corp . “I understand the significance of your obligations
to your shareholders. I get it.”  The chamber has complained that Obama has cost the U.S.
economy jobs while pursuing health-care and climate legislation
it opposed. The organization spent more than $30 million on the
2010 congressional elections, mostly to back Republicans.  First Address  The speech was his first formal address to the chamber and
took place at the group’s headquarters in Washington across
Lafayette Park from the White House. Obama walked across the
park to make the speech and began by joking “maybe if we had
brought over a fruitcake when I first moved in, we would have
gotten off to a better start.”  He touched on some of the same themes he struck in his
State of the Union address: the need to rebuild and modernize
the nation’s transportation and telecommunications systems and
take steps that will promote research and innovation in areas
such as biotechnology,  information technology  and clean energy.  “The costs to business from the outdated and inadequate
infrastructure we currently have are enormous,” Obama said.
“That’s why I want to put more people to work” rebuilding
crumbling roads and bridges.  ‘Loopholes and Carve-Outs’  At the same time, he said he recognized that government
must “cut spending that we just can’t afford.”  He said businesses deserve a revamped tax code and other
measures that will help them compete, including balanced
regulation. He called on businesses to join him in an effort to
change a “burdensome  tax code .”  Obama said “various loopholes and carve-outs” distort
economic decisions. He drew attention to the way the deduction
for interest encourages companies to borrow rather than invest
with equity.  “You’ve got too many companies ending up making decisions
based on what their tax director says instead of what their
engineer designs or what their factories produce,” Obama said.
“And that puts our entire economy at a disadvantage.”  Obama said that while he will pursue a review of government
rules affecting business, “not every regulation is bad; not
every regulation is burdensome on business.”  The benefits of changes on behalf of business must be
shared with workers, Obama said.  Defusing Tensions  “We cannot go back to the kind of economy and culture that
we saw in the years leading up to the recession, where growth
and gains in productivity just didn’t translate into rising
incomes and opportunity for the middle class,” he said.  Chamber President  Tom Donohue , in an interview with Fox
News Channel’s Special Report, said Obama “raises a great
challenge but we have to look at it in the context that 95
percent of people in the world that we can sell something to
live somewhere else.”  “This is a two-part deal,” Donohue said. “Do it at home,
sell it abroad.”  Since Republicans took control of the  House of
Representatives  in the elections, Obama has taken steps that
have defused tensions and earned praise from corporate critics
such as  Ivan Seidenberg , chief executive officer of  Verizon
Communications Inc .  The deal Obama reached with Republicans to extend the tax
cuts for two years and the appointment of former JPMorgan &
Chase Co. executive  William Daley  as his chief of staff were
cheered by the chamber. So was his commitment to push for the
long-stalled trade accord with South Korea.  “You have to give the president his due,” Thomas Collamore, the chamber’s senior vice president of
communications, said before the speech. “Certainly, the
atmospherics are different, and that’s all to the better.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has risen about 8 percent
since the tax-cut deal was reached on Dec. 6. Many private
forecasters raised their projections for the economy after the
compromise, with the median forecast for gross domestic product
growth in 2011 at 3.1 percent in January, up from 2.6 percent in
December, according to a monthly Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 