-- Oil Near One-Week Low on Stockpiles; JPMorgan Sees ‘Correction’
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2011-02-08T07:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/oil-near-one-week-low-as-concerns-over-supply-disruptions-from-egypt-ease.html
Oil traded near the lowest in more
than a week as political tension in  Egypt  eased and rising
stockpiles in the U.S. signaled fuel demand may be faltering in
the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures fell as much as 0.4 percent before a report
tomorrow that may show U.S. crude inventories increased for a
fourth week. Supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for West Texas Intermediate oil, are at the highest since at
least 2004. Investors should consider selling bullish positions
because the market may be set for a “notable correction” as
the Egyptian crisis subsides, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The reason for the moderation, especially with WTI, is
the continued high stocks at Cushing, coupled with the fact that
some of the geopolitical unrest in Egypt seems to be abating,”
said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne.  The March contract was at $87.50 a barrel, up 2 cents, in
electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at 3:29
p.m. Singapore time. Yesterday, futures closed at $87.48, the
lowest since Jan. 27. Prices declined 5.1 percent in the five
days ended Feb. 7.  New York oil’s slump has widened the discount to  London ’s
Brent futures. The spread was at $12.01 a barrel today, the
widest on record, based on closing prices. It was at $10.97 a
week ago and averaged 76 cents last year.    Brent crude  for March settlement was at $99.63 a barrel, up
38 cents, or 0.4 percent, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The contract declined 0.6 percent yesterday.  Fuel Inventories  U.S. supplies gained 2.25 million barrels from 343.2
million in the seven days ended Feb. 4, the Bloomberg News
survey showed before tomorrow’s report. The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will publish its own data today.  Gasoline inventories probably climbed to the highest level
in almost 21 years, the survey showed. Supplies of the motor
fuel increased 3 million barrels, or 1.3 percent, from 236.2
million a week earlier, according to the median of 10 analyst
estimates. The projected advance would leave stockpiles at the
highest since March 1990.  Oil in New York surged to $92.19 on Jan. 31, the highest
settlement since Oct. 3, 2008, on concern Egyptian unrest would
disrupt shipments from the Middle East. Brent futures climbed
above $100 a barrel, reaching at $102.34 on Feb. 2, the highest
since Sept. 26, 2008.  Egypt’s government has promised progress within a month
toward free elections, a move intended to persuade protesters to
leave Cairo’s Tahrir Square after two weeks of rallies aimed at
toppling President  Hosni Mubarak .  Profit-Taking  JPMorgan recommended investors consider selling long
positions because prices may decline this week without fresh
political tension in North Africa and the Middle East.  “This week will be characterized by a drift down in crude
prices on days where either no new tensions arise or where
political progress is perceived,” JPMorgan analysts led by New
York-based Lawrence Eagles said in a report dated yesterday.
“Investors should therefore consider taking profits on all or a
portion of their remaining long positions.”    Hedge funds  raised bullish bets on oil by the most in eight
weeks in the seven days ended Feb. 1 amid escalating violence in
Egypt. About 2.5 percent of global oil production moves through
Egypt via the  Suez Canal  and the Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  