-- Oil Rises for First Day in Three in London on Egypt, Equities
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2011-02-07T13:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/oil-trades-near-one-week-low-in-new-york-as-egypt-supply-concern-subsides.html
Oil rose in London for the first time
in three days on concern that political upheaval in Egypt
remains unresolved and may threaten supplies of crude from the
Middle East.  North Sea Brent traded around $100 a barrel, extending its
premium over futures in  New York  to the widest in three days.
Hedge funds had raised bullish bets on oil by the most in eight
weeks on concern the unrest would spread. Oil recouped earlier
losses today as equities climbed for a fourth day in Europe on
growing signs of economic recovery.  “The risk of contagion will keep prices above $100 a
barrel for a while,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior broker
with Bache Commodities Ltd. in London. “Much has still to be
settled in Egypt, so there is still the specter of unrest
spreading to oil-producing countries.”    Brent crude  for March settlement climbed as much as $1.07,
or 1.1 percent, to $100.90 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange. It traded for $100.47 a barrel as of
1:01 p.m. local time. On Feb. 4 it slid 1.9 percent to end at
$99.83. On the  New York Mercantile Exchange  the March contract
was up 22 cents at $89.25 a barrel. Nymex futures settled at
$89.03 on Feb. 4, the lowest since Jan. 27, and are up 24
percent in the past year.  European equities climbed to their highest levels since
September 2008 and U.S. stock futures advanced as investors bet
that the recovery in the global economy is strengthening. New
York futures earlier fell as much as 0.6 percent after Egyptian
Vice President  Omar Suleiman  and some members of the opposition
agreed yesterday on steps to resolve the crisis.  Business Resumes  Egyptian banks opened yesterday for the first time in more
than a week and courts resumed hearings, state television said.
The country is repairing a natural-gas pipeline network in the
Sinai Desert after an explosion forced a halt in exports to  Israel  and Arab countries, the state news agency reported.  As many as 300 people have died since clashes started Jan.
25, according to the  United Nations . Oil in New York rose as
high as $92.84 a barrel during the turmoil, the most since Oct.
7, 2008. Brent surged above $100.  Middle East and North African countries produce 36 percent
of global oil and have 61 percent of proven reserves, according
to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  Hedge Funds  Hedge funds and other large speculators increased net-long
positions, or wagers on rising prices by 17 percent, in the
seven days ended Feb. 1, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments of Traders report. It
was the largest gain since the week ended Dec. 7.    Egypt ’s Suleiman met yesterday with the Wafd and Tagammu
parties, Muslim Brotherhood and billionaire Naguib Sawiris. The
negotiators agreed to set up a committee that will recommend by
the first week of March constitutional changes needed for free
and fair elections, Suleiman said in a statement.  Brent’s premium to West Texas Intermediate, the crude grade
traded in New York, widened to $11.22 a barrel today from $10.80
at the end of last week. The spread averaged 76 cents last year.  WTI’s discount may narrow as the political crisis in Egypt
abates, according to Cubit’s Keenan.  “The reason the spread blew out in the first place was
because of the preference of Brent as a global benchmark over
WTI for people to express any geopolitical hedges,” said
Keenan. “If we do see the Egypt situation resolving itself, I
think we will get a narrowing of that WTI-Brent spread.”  About 3.5 percent of global oil output moves through Egypt
via the  Suez Canal  and the Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline,
according to Bloomberg calculations using data from the Energy
Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  