-- U.K. Stocks Rise; Cairn Energy, Randgold Resources Lead Gains
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2011-02-07T17:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/most-u-k-stocks-rise-cairn-energy-randgold-resources-advance.html
U.K. stocks rose, sending the  FTSE
100 Index  higher for a second day, as investors speculated that
the recovery in the global economy is strengthening.    Cairn Energy Plc  gained 2.1 percent after saying it plans
to complete the $9.6 billion sale of its Indian unit in about
two months.  Randgold Resources Ltd . rallied 2.6 percent after
saying profit increased.  The benchmark FTSE 100 Index climbed 0.9 percent to
6,051.03 in  London . The FTSE All-Share Index and Ireland’s ISEQ
Index both increased 0.9 percent.  “Markets have certainly weathered recent storms well,”
Cameron Peacock, a market analyst at IG Markets in Melbourne,
wrote in a note. “The overall trend seems to remain positive.”  Stocks rose in Europe last week, snapping two weeks of
losses, as reports showed manufacturing in the U.S.,  China  and  Europe  expanded and the unemployment rate in the U.S.
unexpectedly declined in January, overcoming concern that
political turmoil in the North Africa and the Middle East would
intensify.  In Egypt, Vice President  Omar Suleiman  promised -- within a
month -- to draft a list of constitutional changes needed for
free elections. Protesters remained on the streets of central
Cairo demanding that President Hosni Mubarak step down before
his term ends in September. Last week’s attacks by men
identified as pro-Mubarak “thugs” by opposition campaigner
Mohamed ElBaradei did not continue over the weekend.  Complete Sale  Cairn gained 2.1 percent to 435.4 pence as the Edinburgh-
based explorer said it plans to complete the sale of its Indian
unit to  Vedanta Resources Plc  by April 15.  The two companies and India’s oil ministry held talks about
the regulatory approvals needed for the deal for a second day.
Vedanta agreed in August to buy at least 40 percent and as much
as 51 percent of Cairn India Ltd. The oil ministry said
yesterday it’s “moving fast” on the deal.  The deal would give London-based Vedanta, a mining company
controlled by billionaire Anil Agarwal with no oil and gas
experience, access to India’s biggest onshore oil deposit. The
government said in September that the technical capability of
Cairn India’s parent is guaranteed in the production-sharing
contracts and would have to be examined in any proposal that
brings a change of parent.  Randgold Resources advanced 2.6 percent to 5,110 pence. The
producer of gold in West Africa said 2010 profit rose 49 percent
on higher prices and forecast a production gain of as much as 80
percent this year, even as the political crisis in Ivory Coast
curbed output last quarter.  Net income rose to $103.5 million from $69.4 million a year
earlier, the Jersey, Channel Islands-based company said today in
a statement. Sales climbed 12 percent to $487.7 million.  The following shares also rose or fell in London. Stock
symbols are in parentheses.    Rexam Plc  (REX LN) advanced 3.4 percent to 368.9 pence. The
world’s biggest beverage-can maker has hired Barclays Capital to
sell a unit making lids for drink and other containers for more
than 200 million pounds ($322.1 million), the Mail on Sunday
reported, citing unidentified people.    Umeco Plc  (UMC LN) jumped 4.9 percent to 483 pence. The
U.K. supplier of composite materials for Airbus planes and
McLaren racing cars is in “non-exclusive discussions” that may
lead to the sale of its Pattonair Ltd. supply-chain unit.    Yell Group Plc  (YELL LN) surged 5 percent to 10.5 pence.
Investors agreed to a strategy that will lead to further cost
cuts at the publisher of the U.K.’s Yellow Pages and more
investment in its digital business, the Financial Times
reported, citing shareholders it didn’t name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 