-- OurPet’s, Apple, Palin, NFL: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2011-02-07T22:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/ourpet-s-apple-palin-nfl-intellectual-property-update1-.html
  OurPet’s Co ., a maker of pet
products, sued Golden, Colorado-based  Kong Co.  for patent
infringement over a dog toy.  The suit, filed Feb. 1 in federal court in Cleveland,
relates to a patent for a pet toy that was issued the same day.  Kong’s “ Tugga Wubba ” toy is accused of infringing
OurPet’s patent 7,878,151. The patent covers a “fetch and
retrieve tossing toy,” according to the patent.  OurPet’s, based in Fairport Harbor,  Ohio , said it’s harmed
by Kong’s sale of the Tugga Wubba, and that the infringement is
“deliberate, willful, with full knowledge.” The company also
induces others to infringe the patent by selling its product
wholesale to dealers who will then sell the toys to end users,
according to court papers.  In addition to a court order barring Kong from infringing
the patent, OurPet’s seeks money damages, and an award of all
profits Kong derived from its alleged infringement.  OurPet’s also asked for an order forcing Kong to reveal the
location of equipment used to make the allegedly infringing
product and for the destruction of that equipment and recall and
destruction of all existing Tugga Wubbas. The Ohio company also
requested all sales records for the product and an award of
litigation costs.  The company is represented by  C. Vincent Choken  and  David
A. Welling  of  Choken & Welling LLP  of Akron, Ohio, and John D.
Gugliotta of the Patent Copyright & Trademark Law Group LLC of
Richfield, Ohio.  The case is OurPet’s Co. v. Kong Co., 1:11-cv-00222-CAB,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Ohio (Cleveland).  Apple Seeks Patent for Stand for Electronic Devices    Apple Inc ., the maker of the iPad and iPhone, has applied
for a patent for a device that could be used to support an iPad
in a variety of configurations.  Application  20110025176 , published in the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Feb. 3, is for a “multiple
position stand.”  The Cupertino, California-based company said in its
application that consumers are seeking electronic devices “for
which they can have improved display orientations that meet
their needs.”  Consumers who are “discriminating and savvy” may be drawn
to distinguish a computer or other electronic device by “unique
and sleek support mechanisms befitting the underlying technology
of the product itself,” Apple said.  The device covered by the patent could support the product
in as many as four different orientations and could use a ball
and socket mechanism, according to the application.  Apple filed the application in July 2009 with the
assistance of Washington’s  Sterne Kessler Goldstein & Fox PLLC .
Unlike many other patent applications relating to the design of
Apple products, this application doesn’t list Founder and Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  as an inventor. Jobs is presently
on medical leave.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Sarah, Bristol Palin Seek to Register Names as U.S. Trademarks  Sarah Palin, the Republican candidate for vice president in
the 2008 election, applied to register her name as a trademark,
according to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office.  Her daughter, Bristol Palin, a former contestant on the
“Dancing With the Stars” reality television program, has also
filed an application to register her name.  Both applications have temporarily been refused on the
grounds that neither woman’s consent to register the mark is on
the record. Applicants who seek to register their own names must
themselves sign the application, according to patent office
documents. Both applicants have until May 29 to respond to the
refusal.  The former candidate said in her application she plans to
use her mark for information about political elections,
providing a website featuring information about political
issues, educational and entertainment services, including
“providing motivational speaking services in the field of
politics, culture, business and values.” That application was
filed in November.  Her daughter says she will use her mark for educational and
entertainment services, namely, “providing motivational
speaking services in the field of life choices.” She filed her
application in September.  Both applications were filed on their behalf by  Thomas V.
Van Flein  of Anchorage, Alaska’s  Clapp Peterson Tiemessen
Thorsness Johnson LLC . His biography on the firm’s website
doesn’t indicate that he practices  intellectual-property  law.  An application to register “The era of Sarah” as a
trademark to be used to promote Palin’s presidential campaign
was filed in November 2009 by a resident of Pueblo,  Colorado .
That application was abandoned in September.  James D. Weeks of Anchorage filed an application to
register “Sarah Palin’s Going Rogue Rouge” in June. According
to his application, he plans to use the mark for printed novelty
wine labels. “Going Rogue” is the title of Palin’s
autobiography, published in November 2009.  According to  the AlaskaDispatch.com news website, Weeks is
a former ARCO executive who now is a managing member of
UltraStar Exploration, a company exploring oil on Alaska’s North
Slope.  His application was temporarily refused on Sept. 29 and he
has until April 29 to respond. The patent office said the mark
would “falsely suggest a connection with Sarah Palin.”  Fake Holograms Used on Fake NFL Team Gear, Customs Says  Counterfeiters who were trying to sell fake merchandise
related to yesterday’s National Football League  Super Bowl  game
had begun using tags with faux holograms, Immigrations and
Customs Enforcement’s John McNair said and  CNN   reported .  John McNair of Immigrations and Customs Enforcement told
CNN that the holograms on the fakes were “nothing more than a
shiny sticker,” while the holograms on authorized merchandise
reveal distinct pictures.  Customs agents were finding other indications of fakery
including, in some cases, some jerseys with names stitched on
upside down, mismatched lettering and shoddy workmanship,
according to CNN.  “Operation Interception,” an enforcement effort aimed at
fake sports memorabilia, has brought in more than $3.5 million
worth of fake goods this year, the news network reported.  Green Bay Packers Merchandise Seeks Bids on EBay After Big Win  The morning after the Green Bay Packers beat the Pittsburgh
Steelers 31-25 in the National Football League championship
Super Bowl game,  EBay Inc .’s online auction site had  59,776
Green Bay Packers items  offered for sale. The highest-price item
was  Willie Wood’s  Hall of Fame ring  listed at $2.75 million .  Other offerings included the  packerssuck.com  Internet
domain name, for sale for $14,000, and a diamond-studded 1996
Packers player’s  wife’s Super Bowl ring  offered for a starting
bid of $22,000. A  Packers Super Bowl championship ring  from the
same season is offered for $13,000, and a  1966 Super Bowl
football  with certified signatures from 50 Packer team members
including Coach Vince Lombardi is listed at $12,000.  For those who aren’t such big spenders, football cards
featuring individual Packers team members are listed on the EBay
auction site with a starting price of 1 cent.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Mattel Suing MGA ‘to Death’ Over Bratz Dolls, Suit Claims    Mattel Inc . was accused in a lawsuit of antitrust
violations by trying to sue MGA Entertainment Inc. “to death”
in the continuing court battle over the origins of MGA’s Bratz
dolls.  “Mattel Chief Executive Officer Robert Eckert embraced the
‘litigate MGA to death’ strategy, a whatever-it-takes process
Mattel successfully employed to destroy the approximate $1
billion net worth of MGA,” the closely held company said in a
complaint filed Feb. 3 in federal court in  Los Angeles .  MGA, based in  Van Nuys ,  California , said it seeks $1
billion in damages and asks that the amount be tripled for the
alleged antitrust violations.  The companies are in the middle of a second trial over
Mattel’s claims that MGA’s Bratz dolls were initially created by
a designer who worked for Mattel at the time and secretly
brought the idea to MGA in 2000. A previous $100 million verdict
in favor of El Segundo, California-based Mattel was thrown out
on appeal.  Mattel has spent more than $270 million in attorneys’ fees
as part of a “scorched earth” litigation strategy, MGA said in
its complaint. The company said it has been unable to
successfully re-launch its Bratz line after the appeals court
overturned a judge’s order following the 2008 trial that granted
Mattel rights to most of MGA’s Bratz products.  “These same arguments have been repeatedly rejected by the
court,” Mike Zeller, a lawyer for Mattel, said last week in an
e-mailed statement. “This is nothing more than an end run
against these prior decisions.”  The new jury trial that started on Jan. 18 in Santa Ana,
California, may last as long as four months, U.S. District Judge
David Carter has said. Mattel is seeking damages for copyright
infringement and trade-secret theft from MGA, which in turn will
ask the jury to hold Mattel liable for unfair competition and
stealing its  trade secrets .  In the 2008 trial, a federal jury in Riverside, California,
agreed with Mattel that designer  Carter Bryant  made most of the
initial sketches for the Bratz dolls while he worked for Mattel.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San Francisco  found that the
trial judge, Stephen Larson, had wrongly ruled that Mattel
automatically owned Bryant’s design under the terms of an
invention agreement and that the judge incorrectly gave Mattel
ownership of later Bratz dolls that MGA developed. Carter, who
got the case after Larson left the bench, said last year that
all of Mattel’s claims needed to be retried.  Mattel first sued Bryant in 2004, alleging he secretly
worked for a competitor while still employed at Mattel. Two
years later, Mattel filed its copyright-infringement and trade-
secret theft claims against MGA. Bryant settled with Mattel
before the start of the 2008 trial.  The new case is MGA Entertainment v. Mattel, 11-01063,
U.S. District Court, Central District of California (Los
Angeles). The case in trial is Carter Bryant v. Mattel Inc., 04-
09049, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Santa Ana).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Squire Sanders Expands Silicon Valley IP Group in  Jones Day  Hire  Squires Sanders & Dempsey LLP hired  Rahul Pathak  for its
Silicon Valley IP practice, the Cleveland-based firm said in a
statement.  Pathak, who joined from  Washington ’s Jones Day, does
patent-acquisition and portfolio management work for life-
science companies, academy institutions and investment firms in
the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, genomics/biologic, renewable
biofuels and small molecule drug industries.  He has an undergraduate degree in molecular biophysics and
biochemistry from  Yale University , a doctorate in chemistry from
California Institute of Technology and a law degree from the
University of California Berkeley School of Law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 