-- Palin's Bold Attacks on Obama, Quiet Strategy Puzzle Republicans for 2012
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2011-02-07T21:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/palin-s-bold-attacks-on-obama-quiet-strategy-puzzle-republicans-for-2012.html
Sarah Palin, the former Alaskan
governor weighing a bid for the presidency in 2012, is keeping
her attacks loud and her intentions quiet.  Palin, who claimed that the policies of the Obama
administration have put the country on a “road to ruin” in a
weekend address celebrating the centennial of former President  Ronald Reagan ’s birth, will bypass an assembly of the
Conservative Political Action Committee this week in Washington.
The event has become a proving ground for the Republican Party’s
potential candidates for president.  Palin’s moves in the face of will-she or won’t-she
questions about the 2012 campaign have captivated Washington,
keeping fellow Republicans guessing.  While other possible candidates raise money, hire aides and
woo supporters, Palin has made few visits to early primary
states. Instead, she focuses on paid speeches, her role as a Fox
News contributor, interviews in friendly media forums and
Facebook and Twitter postings attacking the Obama
administration.  Palin’s strategy has political observers questioning
whether the 2008 Republican vice-presidential nominee is
pioneering a new way to conduct a campaign in a political era
dominated by social media.  “She understands it’s a new media and political
environment, and she’s taken advantage of her greatest asset,
which is the ability to command media attention and to raise
money,” says  Darrell West , an expert in politics and technology
at the  Brookings Institution . “If you decide to run for
president that’s a powerful combination.”  Celebrity Status  Still, West notes, Palin’s celebrity status has made it
tougher for her to “cross that threshold of substance that
voters are going to require in any presidential candidate.”  Palin, 46, slammed President  Barack Obama ’s handling of the
uprising in  Egypt  in an  interview  with the Christian
Broadcasting Network released yesterday. She likened it to “the
3 a.m. phone call” that Obama’s one-time challenger and now
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  used in a campaign TV ad to
question Obama’s readiness for an international crisis.  “It seems that call went right to the answering machine,”
Palin said. “We need to know what it is that America stands for
so we know who it is that America will stand with. And we do not
have that information yet.”  Door Open  Palin left the door open to a 2012 presidential bid, saying
in the interview that if she ran she would “continue on the
same course of not really caring what other people say about me
or worrying about the things that they make up, but having that
thick skin and a steel spine.”  White House Press Secretary  Robert Gibbs  told reporters
today that he didn’t understand Palin’s remarks about Egypt.  “I read that answer several times and I still really don’t
know what she said,” he said.  She spoke exclusively to the network in a brief interview
following her remarks kicking off the weekend-long celebration
of Reagan’s birth in  Santa Barbara ,  California .  Palin focused on a speech Reagan gave in 1964 on behalf of
Republican presidential candidate Barry Goldwater, in which he
discussed the dangers of high taxes and government regulations.  “We face the same choices now as we did then, only now we
are in even worse shape,” she said. “We must see where these
unsound policies will ultimately end and that’s in decline and
defeat.”  Presidential Treatment  Palin was given presidential treatment at the Reagan Ranch
center, arriving just before she spoke rather than mingling with
350 attendees dining at banquet tables in the ballroom. After
her address, they lined up for official photos with her.  A short video about Reagan played before Palin took the
stage, juxtaposing pictures of former president  Jimmy Carter 
with Obama.  Patti Davis and Ron Reagan, two of Reagan’s children, said
Palin had little in common with their father.  Palin is not “a serious candidate,” Reagan  told  the  Associated Press .  “She’s doing mostly what she does to make
money and keep her name in the news,” he said. Davis said her
father would be “completely baffled at her fondness for
shooting animals.”  Palin’s newest attacks follow a dispute over what critics
viewed as her divisive political rhetoric.  Cross-Hairs  Her PAC’s website last fall displayed gun-sight cross-hairs
over the districts of several Democratic lawmakers, including
Gabrielle Giffords, who was wounded Jan. 8 in a shooting spree
that killed six people. Palin was criticized for this and for
some of her use of violent metaphors in her political speech.  After the shooting, she suggested on her Facebook page that
she had been victimized by “blood libel,” an anti-Semitic term
used by those who falsely accused Jews of killing Christian
children and using their blood to make the unleavened bread
served at Passover.  Forty-six percent of voters surveyed said they disapproved
of her response to the shooting and only 30 percent approved,
according to a  Washington Post -ABC News poll taken Jan. 13-16.  Almost three-quarters of investors view Palin unfavorably,
according to a quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of 1,000
investors, traders and analysts conducted by Selzer & Co., a Des
Moines, Iowa-based firm, on Jan. 20-24.  Though the general public may have soured on Palin, she
maintains strong support among Republican primary voters.  Second Choice  She was the second choice among Republican voters surveyed
for a  Washington  Post-ABC News  poll , winning 19 percent of the
respondents and trailing former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee
by two points. In a NBC/Wall Street Journal poll conducted the
same week, Palin placed third, four points behind Huckabee and
five behind former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney.  Palin’s confrontational tone, which alienates a broader
public, is what energizes the Republican Party’s base, said
pollster Neil Newhouse, a partner at Alexandria, Virginia-based
Public Opinion Strategies.  “For many Republicans, she represents how they feel about
the issues,” he said. “She is their voice.”  Since running with Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  on the
Republican Party’s 2008 presidential ticket, Palin has become a
heroine of the Tea Party movement, a loose-knit coalition of
fiscally conservative voters.  She contributed more than $516,000 to Republicans largely
backed by Tea Party activists during the midterm election
campaign. Palin entered 2011 with $1.3 million in her political
action committee’s bank account,  Federal Election Commission 
filings show.  Support for Candidates  Of the 81 candidates whom Palin supported in the Nov. 2
elections, more than 50 won, according to a  website  operated by
her supporters.  “I don’t think Sarah Palin needs to prove her credentials
to the conservative crowd,” Tim Pawlenty, a former Minnesota
governor contemplating a Republican bid for president, told
reporters in Chicago on Feb. 4  Still, Republican strategists say that for Palin to mount a
successful campaign, she must define a cohesive platform.  “Money is not everything,” said Republican pollster David
Winston. “What are the specific set of issues that she’s going
to engage to say this is a focal point of why she would run for
president?”  Other potential Republican candidates have already started
testing their platforms in  Iowa  and  New Hampshire , the states
scheduled to host the first presidential nomination contests.  Palin last traveled to Iowa on Nov. 27 for a stop on her
latest book tour. Before that, she visited in September, giving
the keynote address at the Iowa  Republican Party ’s largest
annual fund-raiser.  Potential Rivals  Other potential candidates making regular visits to Iowa to
gauge support include Pawlenty and former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia .  Iowa Republican activists caution Palin against waiting too
long to begin campaigning in Iowa, which tentatively plans to
hold its presidential nominating caucuses on Feb. 6, 2012.  “Iowa caucus-goers expect to see candidates here early and
often, and they expect the chance to interact with them,” said
Matt Strawn, chairman of the state’s Republican Party.  Palin has done little campaign work in New Hampshire, whose
primary election will offer the second early party test in 2012,
according to New Hampshire-based Republican consultant Dave Carney.  “Some folks are interested in meeting her,” he said “But
there doesn’t appear to be any campaign groundwork being laid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Santa Barbara at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 