-- Panama, Colombia Trade Deal Delays Cost U.S. Jobs, Lugar Says
-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 2011-02-07T14:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/panama-colombia-trade-deal-delays-cost-u-s-jobs-lugar-says.html
The top Republican on the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee said failure to ratify free-trade
accords with key allies Panama and Colombia would further cede
market share to countries including China, costing U.S. jobs.  In a letter to congressional colleagues, Senator  Richard Lugar  said the U.S. is losing its place as the “preferred and
logical trading partner” for South America.  Canada , which
signed its own free trade accord with Colombia last year, could
soon replace the U.S. as the country’s main supplier of wheat
and machinery, the Indiana Republican added. Unilateral trade
preferences for Colombia expire this month.  “The FTAs are increasingly considered by Panamanians and
Colombians as a crucible in the bilateral relationships,” Lugar
said in the letter dated Feb. 8, which followed a trip by a
staff member to both countries. “They serve as a symbolic
litmus test of U.S. commitments to its friends in a neighborhood
where various countries are taking sharply divergent paths.”  Agreements with  Colombia  and Panama, which would eliminate
most tariffs for both nations, have languished since their
signing in 2006 and 2007 respectively. Republican lawmakers want
President  Barack Obama  to submit the  accords  to Congress
together with a South Korea free-trade pact that he plans to
push first.  Lugar urged Congress to consider the agreements as it
debates a renewal of trade preferences for Colombia under the
Andean Trade Preferences Act, which expires Feb. 12. About 90
percent of imports from Colombia and  Ecuador  already enter the
U.S. duty-free under the agreement, which aims to foster
alternatives to illegal drug production in the region.  No Deadline  In his State of the Union address Jan. 25, Obama called for
quick approval of the South Korean accord, without indicating
when he would seek passage of the Colombia and  Panama  pacts.
Three days later, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said Obama
wants to send the Colombia accord to Congress this year.  The U.S. imported $11.3 billion of goods from Colombia in
2009 and exported $9.4 billion, according to the report provided
by Lugar’s staff to Bloomberg. A deal with Colombia would boost
U.S. exports by $1.1 billion, according to the U.S.
 International Trade Commission .  For the first time,  Argentina  replaced the U.S. as
Colombia’s number one agricultural supplier, Lugar said. Farm
 exports  to Colombia fell to $827 million in 2010 from $1.8
billion in 2008, while Argentina exports to Colombia more than
doubled to $1 billion in 2010 from $457 million in 2008, he
said.  Canada,  China   Once the Canada-Colombia free trade accord goes into
effect, as early as this summer, Colombia will buy capital goods
from there instead of from U.S. manufacturers, which must pay
tariffs ranging from 5 percent to 20 percent, he said.
Representatives in Bogota of Archer Daniels Midland Co., the
world’s largest grain processor, told Lugar’s staff that the
U.S. could lose its entire share of Colombia’s wheat market
following implementation of the Canadian accord.  China, which has increased exports to Colombia by 224
percent in the first nine months of 2010, could supplant the
U.S. as Colombia’s biggest trading partner within a decade
unless the free trade agreement is approved, the report said,
citing findings by a Colombian competitiveness council.  China in 2009 overtook the U.S. as  Brazil ’s largest trading
partner, and in 2007 surpassed the U.S. as  Chile ’s biggest
export market. Obama will visit both countries, as well as  El
Salvador , in his first-ever visit to  South America  next month.  “In an ailing economy, our ability to create jobs depends
largely on expanding domestic and international commerce,” said
Carl Meacham, Lugar’s senior aide on Latin America, who traveled
to Panama and Colombia to assess the consequences of a U.S.
failure to ratify the agreements. “Without the FTAs, the U.S.
loses credibility and diminishes its ability to influence
countries in Latin America.”  Democrat Opposition  Some Democratic lawmakers have opposed the agreement with
Colombia on the grounds that it offers inadequate labor
protection, and that violence against union organizers in the
South American nation makes it an inappropriate partner.  “Before we can consider any free trade agreement with
Colombia, Congress must receive assurances from this
administration that it will enforce  labor laws ,” Senator
Sherrod Brown, Democrat of  Ohio , said in an e-mailed statement.
“Colombia leads the world in labor rights violations, with
thousands of murders and death threats directed at union members
and leaders.”  Colombia says it has made important strides in reducing
violence against workers. The number of trade unionists killed
there fell to 13 in 2009 from 99 in 2002, according to the
 Defense Ministry .  Panama Accord  Panama, whose economy is driven by the Panama Canal, is
among the few nations that have a trade deficit with the U.S.,
with the Central American nation sending $302 million of goods
in 2009 to America and receiving $4.3 billion in imports.  The U.S. is losing “large-scale” investment projects in
Panama such as the $5.25 billion canal expansion and the $1.5
billion Panama City Metro “to non-American firms,” Lugar said.    Sacyr Vallehermoso SA , a Madrid, Spain-based builder, won a
$3.1 billion contract to help expand the Panama Canal in 2009. A
group including Brazil’s Odebrecht SA and Fomento de
Construcciones & Contratas SA of  Spain  landed the contract in
October to build Panama’s first metro line.  “Ratification of the free-trade agreements would help to
reverse these trends and solidify market opportunities for U.S.
goods and services,” Lugar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  