-- Petrobras Ends Eni Talks for $5.6 Billion Galp Stake
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2011-02-07T21:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/petrobras-eni-terminate-their-talks-on-possible-acquisition-of-galp-stake.html
  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s
state-controlled oil producer, ended talks with  Eni SpA  to buy a
4.1 billion-euro ($5.6 billion) stake in  Galp Energia SGPS SA .  The Rio de Janeiro-based company, known as Petrobras,
“decided to end conversations with Eni SpA without having
concluded the acquisition of any stake in Galp,” it said today
in a regulatory filing. Petrobras didn’t give further details.  The company last month disclosed it was in talks to buy a
33 percent stake in Galp,  Portugal ’s biggest oil company. The
two companies are partners in oil fields off Brazil’s coast
including Lula, the second-largest discovery in the Americas
since  Mexico ’s Cantarell find in 1976. Galp, based in Lisbon,
has a market value of about 12.6 billion euros ($17.1 billion).  The breakdown in talks is “a small positive for Petrobras
as the company can focus its attention on developing both
upstream and downstream projects in  Brazil  and delivering on its
business plan,” Scott Darling, an analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in Dubai, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Chief Executive Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli said Dec. 7
the company plans to raise between $30 billion and $40 billion
of new debt over the next four years to finance a $224 billion
investment plan, the oil industry’s largest.  16 Billion Barrels  Petrobras, which currently has 16 billion barrels of proven
reserves, plans to double that to as many as 35 billion barrels
by 2014 as it taps pre-salt fields lying two miles below the
ocean surface and another two to four miles beneath the seabed.
The pre-salt area runs 800 kilometers (500 miles) along Brazil’s
coast from Espirito Santo to Santa Catarina states.  Petrobras fell 40 centavos, or 1.5 percent, to 27.22 reais
in Sao Paulo trading as of 3:07 p.m. New York time. Eni rose 0.2
percent to 18.16 euros in Milan.  Rome-based Eni is looking for other buyers after the talks
collapsed and will only sell its stake in Galp when it receives
an offer that meets expectations, Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni  was quoted today as telling Italian news agency Ansa.  The Galp stake has generated a return of about 1 billion
euros ($1.4 billion) and Eni is in no rush to sell it, Scaroni
told Ansa. Eni, which is  Italy ’s biggest oil company,  bought  its
stake in Galp in 2000 after paying 964 million euros.  The Lula field, formerly known as Tupi, holds an estimated
6.5 billion barrels of recoverable oil and equivalents. Galp is
also a Petrobras partner at Cernambi, which holds 1.8 billion
barrels of estimated reserves.  Portugal Refineries  Galp also operates the Sines and Porto refineries in
Portugal, with combined refining capacity of 310,000 barrels of
crude a day, or 20 percent of the Iberian Peninsula’s total,
 according  to its website. Galp sells about 80 percent of the
products through its network in Portugal, Spain and Africa and
exports the rest to other European countries and  North America .  Petrobras should concentrate in the so-called Brazilian
downstream market, where it has access to oil and demand is
growing faster, instead of searching for refining assets in  Europe , where international  oil companies  are moving out,
according to Nomura’s Darling.  “Refining economics favors being closer to high oil demand
growth centers rather than export,” he said.  Petrobras, which last year raised about $70 billion in the
world’s largest share sale, wasn’t committed to buying the Galp
stake, Chief Financial Officer  Almir Barbassa  said in an
interview Jan. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jessica Brice in Sao Paulo at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at    dcrofts@bloomberg.net  