-- Portugal Raises 3.5 Billion Euros in Syndicated Bonds
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2011-02-07T17:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/portugal-hires-six-banks-to-manage-first-syndicated-bond-issue-in-a-year.html
  Portugal  raised 3.5 billion euros
($4.7 billion) of five-year notes in its first syndicated bond
sale in a year.  The securities were priced at 360 basis points more than
the benchmark mid-swap rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Portugal paid a spread of 140 basis points when it
raised 3 billion euros of 10-year bonds in the nation’s last
syndicated deal Feb. 10, 2010.  The difference in yield between Portuguese 10-year bonds
and German bunds reached a euro-era record of 484 basis points
on Nov. 11 amid concern the deficit-ridden nation would follow  Greece  in seeking a bailout package from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund . The spread was 390 basis points
today.  “Given the recent change of tone in peripheral bond
trading, and the fact that Portugal has no large redemptions
until April, it is still within reason to expect that Portugal
can make it without seeking a package,” Nick Firoozye, head of
interest-rate strategy at Nomura International Plc in  London ,
said in a note today.  Debt Agency  Portugal’s debt agency IGCP said in December the nation
intends to sell as much as 20 billion euros of bonds this year
to finance its budget and redeem maturing debt. The government
is raising taxes and implementing the deepest spending cuts in
more than three decades to convince investors it can narrow its
budget gap.  The government will report a 2010 deficit equivalent to 7
percent of gross domestic product or less, narrower than the 7.3
percent gap the country had forecast, Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  said on Jan. 28. The country has set a target for a
budget deficit of 4.6 percent of GDP in 2011, and aims to reach
the EU limit of 3 percent in 2012.    Barclays Capital , BNP Paribas SA, Caixa Banco de
Investimento, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and Morgan
Stanley are managing the bond sale, the people with knowledge of
the transaction said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net . 