-- Powerfuel’s Hatfield Carbon Project Gets 10 Proposals, KPMG Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2011-02-07T17:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/powerfuel-s-hatfield-carbon-project-has-received-10-proposals-kpmg-says.html
  KPMG  International, administrator for
the  coal mine  operator  Powerfuel Plc , received 10 “expressions
of interest” for one of Europe’s most advanced carbon-capture
projects in Hatfield, northern  England .  “We’re not giving any details of buyers, it’s a
commercially sensitive process and that’s as much as we’re
willing and able to give at the moment,” Alison Anderson, a
Leeds-based spokeswoman for KPMG, said today by telephone.  Powerfuel, owned by Chief Executive Officer Richard Budge
and former Russian billionaire Mikhail Abyzov, went into
administration in December. Its debt is about 85 million pounds
($137 million), according to KPMG. The company’s assets include
a coal mine and a project to build a power station that captures
carbon dioxide from gasified coal for underground storage.  Britain’s coalition government has pledged 1 billion pounds
to fund the first commercial demonstration project to capture
and permanently store carbon dioxide. Known as CCS, it aims to
cut emissions 80 percent by 2050 from 1990. This money will go
to a CCS technology that captures CO2 from a coal plant after
burning the fuel. Iberdrola SA’s Scottish Power unit is the only
company in the running for the funds.  Powerfuel’s plans, among the most advanced in  Europe 
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance analysts, are to
capture emissions before combustion. The company has permission
to build a power station at the site near its coal field and won
180 million euros ($244 million) of European Commission funding.  The project is likely to apply for additional funds through
the European Commission via the New Entrants Reserve of European
Union carbon permits as well. Powerfuel is 653 million pounds
short of the investment needed to develop the CCS project,
according to KPMG.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  