-- Puerto Rico’s Fortuno Uses Game of Chance to Repair Tax System
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2011-02-07T05:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/puerto-rico-puts-lottery-numbers-on-sales-slips-as-fortuno-targets-deficit.html
A 10-digit lottery number on a
crumpled  Church’s Chicken  receipt is Governor Luis Fortuno’s
solution for pulling  Puerto Rico  from its “lost decade” and
may salvage his popularity.  The number, printed at a Ponce restaurant by a machine that
reports sales directly to the Commonwealth’s  Treasury , seeks to
turn every Puerto Rican into an enforcement agent. The program
will give anyone with a receipt a chance to win $1,000 or a car,
while forcing businesses to report and pay taxes.  Consumers have a “personal interest in making sure that
the tax is collected and sent over to our local Treasury
Department,” Fortuno, a 50-year-old Republican, said in an
interview in his San Juan office.  Governors across the U.S. are confronting deficits that
total  $125 billion  in the next fiscal year by cutting spending
and raising money. Illinois increased its taxes and is borrowing
$3.7 billion for its pension. Texas may cut 10 percent from its
biennial budget. Fortuno’s approach is to crack down on
cheating. His anti-tax-evasion policies will increase the
commonwealth’s projected $8.1 billion revenue by $305 million
this year, Treasury Secretary Luis Puig said in a telephone
interview.  Pervasive Evasion  Free lottery tickets may be more to the public’s liking
than other measures Fortuno took in his first two years in
office. He sparked student strikes when he raised fees to help
balance the university’s budget. He prompted street protests
when he fired workers to help bring the territory’s deficit to
$1 billion in the current fiscal year from 2009’s $3.3 billion,
the largest of any state’s proportionate to revenue.  Now, still dealing with a contracting economy, Fortuno’s
tax overhaul may prove more popular. He promoted a measure last
year to boost revenue by tightening the net on collections, and
another to cut taxes, which the Legislature passed Jan 31.  Only 52 percent of sales taxes are collected, according to
a Treasury document. An underground economy has flourished, said
Jose Villamil, chairman of Estudios Tecnicos, an economic
consulting firm in  San Juan , who estimated that the informal
sector is 27 percent the size of the overall economy, which was
$62.8 billion in 2009.  “The tax system is so oppressive that people basically
want to avoid it,” he said in a telephone interview. “Tax
evasion is pervasive; it includes high-income professions such
as doctors and lawyers that collect fees in cash,” as well as
people selling food and other items on the street.  Fixing the System  Fortuno’s measures include requiring banks to provide
income information on some borrowers, limits on a mortgage-
interest deduction and penalties for corporate tax evasion. The
moves, along with a temporary 4 percent excise tax on foreign
manufacturers, will allow the territory to lower business levies
an average of 30 percent and individual assessments by 50
percent over six years. Residents who earn less than $20,000 no
longer have to pay income taxes.  “There’s a general feeling in the people of Puerto Rico
that the tax system is broken,” Xenia Velez Silva, executive
director of the governor’s tax-reform committee, said in a
telephone interview from San Juan.  Taking Profit  The former Spanish colony was ceded to the U.S. in  1898 
after the Spanish-American War. The Caribbean  sugar producer 
gained self-governing Commonwealth status in 1952, and a 1976
law that allowed U.S. companies to take home profits without
income taxes prompted the opening of plants, including
pharmaceutical manufacturers such as  Eli Lilly & Co . and  Novartis AG .  Its biggest public companies include the San Juan financial
institution  Popular Inc ., which has a market capitalization of
$3.4 billion, and insurance company  Triple-S Management Corp .,
worth about $539 million.  Puerto Rico had trouble attracting businesses to a
jurisdiction with complicated permitting laws and strict labor
rules, said Villamil. That led to what economists and top
officials call a “lost decade.”  Private payrolls fell 10 percent from January 2001 to
January 2010, according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .
Workers flocked to the public sector, which provides three out
of 10 jobs, or to the mainland, where the  unemployment rate 
averaged 6 percentage points below that of the territory. Only
Puerto Rico and  Michigan  lost population during the past 10
years, according to the  U.S. Census .  ‘Courageous Things’  Puerto Rico’s Chamber of Commerce, which represents more
than 50 percent of private-sector employment, endorsed the tax
overhaul, president Raul Gaya said in a telephone interview from
San Juan.  “Fortuno has done some very courageous things,” he said.
“Unfortunately, the economy has not been responding as we wish
it would.”  In December, 20 months after the U.S. came out of
 recession , the territory’s economic activity index fell 2.5
percent. Growth will likely resume by March, Fortuno said.  To encourage that, he created a permits office to simplify
the process and promoted scrapping the need for the Legislature
to approve public-private partnerships.  The San Juan native with two U.S. university degrees
developed the “aversion to government intervention” as a
corporate lawyer.  “I got to understand much better from much closer how and
why business decisions were taken and how government decisions
affect those businesses,” he said.  ‘No Decisions’  The husband of real-estate attorney Luce Vela and father of
19-year-old triplets was executive director of Puerto Rico
Tourism Co. and secretary of the Department of Economic
Development and Commerce. In 2004, he was elected resident
commissioner, the territory’s non-voting member of Congress.  Officialdom, he said, should be small and decisive.  “Government often times is afraid of making decisions, so
they make no decisions whatsoever,” he said. As governor,
Fortuno had little time to dilly-dally.  After his November 2008 victory, he learned the budget gap
was more than three times larger than disclosed by the previous
administration. As governor-elect, he traveled to  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service in  New York  to dissuade the
ratings companies from downgrading the territory’s bonds to
junk.  He laid off 12,600 government workers and eliminated more
than 7,000 other positions, cutting payroll expenses 17 percent,
Carlos Garcia, president of the Government Development Bank,
said in an interview.  Mass Walkouts  The firings ignited protests, including a 24-hour general
strike on Oct. 15, 2009.  A two-month student strike, which began last year on April
21, shut 10 of the University of Puerto Rico’s 11 campuses.
Fortuno’s approval rating stood at 43 percent, according to a
Univision Radio poll that month.  Meanwhile,  Wall Street  cheered. The amount investors charge
to take on risk for Puerto Rico’s 10-year general obligation
bond compared with Treasuries fell by almost half to 1.6
percentage points Feb. 4, compared with 3.35 percentage points
the day he took office, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Puerto Rico’s management through this recession is a
model,” said Richard Larkin, director of credit analysis at
Herbert J. Sims & Co. in Iselin,  New Jersey , which has about $1
billion in assets under management, including Puerto Rico
general-obligation and revenue bonds.  Betting on Stability  Standard & Poor’s, which rates Puerto Rico’s bonds one
notch above junk at BBB-, cited reductions in payroll spending
and the tax measures when it raised its outlook to positive from
stable Nov. 29.  “To the extent that they can further improve their
collection efforts, I think that only increases their revenue
flexibility,”  Horacio Aldrete-Sanchez, S&P’s credit analyst,
said in a telephone interview from  Dallas .  Within three years, the lottery program alone will improve
annual collections by $400 million, said Puig, the treasury
secretary.  Samuel Sandiego, on whose tray at Church’s Chicken the
crumpled receipt lay ignored, said he liked the lottery idea.  “I didn’t realize,” the 45-year-old artist said, putting
the receipt in his pocket. A mention of Fortuno’s other policies
brought his fist into the air, thumb down. “And I voted for
him.”  Hot Dogs, Too  The commonwealth began the lottery pilot program in
December in about 200 businesses in Ponce, the second-largest
city. Every receipt will be a free ticket for a twice-weekly
drawing, said Puig.  All businesses will have a machine, even outdoor kiosks,
which have a wireless version. Dixon Diaz, selling hot dogs at
his father’s cart in Ponce and handing out receipts, said the
business had long paid taxes; others should as well.  Fixing the tax system is a crucial step toward improving
Puerto Rico, said Fortuno, who has two years left in his term.  “We must cement our accomplishments” he said. “We have
actually walked probably the most difficult part of the road and
now it’s just staying the course and making the economy grow.”  Luis Fortuno at a glance:  Born: San Juan, Puerto Rico, October 31, 1960 (Age 50)  Party: Republican, PNP (Partido Nuevo Progresista)  Spouse: Luce Vela, notarial practice/real estate attorney  Children: Triplets, Maria Luisa, Guillermo, and Luis Roberto,
born December 11, 1991  Education: Bachelor of Science, School of Foreign Service,  Georgetown University , Washington, D.C., 1982; Juris Doctor,  University of Virginia , Charlottesville, Virginia, 1985  Financial management: “He’s a very frugal person,” wife Luce
Vela said. “I would say he’s stingy, but he says he’s frugal.”
He still wears the same tuxedo he wore when he graduated from
high school, she said.  Career: Corporate lawyer, McConnell Valdes law firm in San Juan
1985-1992; executive director, Puerto Rico Tourism Co., 1993-
1996; secretary, Puerto Rico Department of Economic Development
and Commerce, 1994-1996; private practice attorney 1997-2004;
Resident Commissioner of Puerto Rico 2005-2009; elected governor
in 2008  Noteworthy: Co-founded the Puerto Rico Statehood Students
Association; first Republican governor in 40 years  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 