-- Qantas May Add Long-Haul Routes to Regain Share From Emirates, Virgin Blue
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2011-02-07T02:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/qantas-may-add-long-haul-routes-to-regain-share-from-emirates-virgin-blue.html
  Qantas Airways Ltd ., Australia’s
biggest airline, is preparing to revamp its international
operations and may add long-haul routes to regain market share
from rivals Emirates and Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd.  Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce has formed a task force
of about 20 people to look at “all options” for the
international business, he said in a Feb. 3 phone interview. The
division won’t be “relevant” if it keeps losing market share,
he said.  More fuel-efficient aircraft, including on-order Airbus SAS
A380s, would underpin the new routes, said Joyce, 44. An
alliance similar to Virgin Blue’s venture with Etihad Airways
for long-hauls from Australia may also help Sydney-based Qantas
expand while controlling costs.  “They’ve got very limited options, as Australia is a small
market of 22 million people at the end of the world,” said  Peter Harbison , managing director at Sydney-based industry
consultant Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation. “The real key is
they’ve got to develop a relationship with another carrier.”  Qantas’s long-haul international traffic to and from
Australia dropped about 8 percent in the year ended June 2010,
leaving it with a 20 percent market  share , compared with 35
percent in 2000, according to government data.  Eroding Dominance  The carrier’s budget unit Jetstar had an 8.1 percent share
last fiscal year. Emirates had 7.9 percent of traffic, according
to the government’s Bureau of Transport & Regional Economics.  Jetstar contributed A$131 million in earnings before
interest and tax, while its frequent flyer program added A$328
million to group profit in the year ended June 30. The Qantas-
branded carrier, which includes long-haul services, added A$67
million.  Qantas “isn’t returning its cost of capital, and the other
businesses have been compensating for it for some time,” Joyce
said. “That can’t continue, and we need it to grow.”  The carrier scrapped a potential merger with British
Airways Plc in December 2008, less than a month after Joyce
became CEO. Talks on a tie-up with  Malaysian Airline System Bhd .
also failed.  Dreamliner Routes  Deliveries of the first of Qantas’s 50-plane order of
 Boeing Co. 787  Dreamliners in 2012 will also help the airline
add routes, Joyce said. The carrier has options for a further 50
Dreamliners and plans to use the 787 on Jetstar and Qantas
routes so it can retire less efficient 767s.  “We will utilize the 787 a lot for new destinations, and
that will depend on the arrivals of the aircraft,” Joyce said
in the interview. “We also need to think about how we partner
with other airlines.”  Qantas agreed last month with  AMR Corp .’s  American Airlines 
to expand an alliance for services to  North America  and to add
flights to  Dallas  after Virgin Blue sought a similar tie-up with
Delta Air Lines Inc. Both airline agreements are subject to
regulatory approval.  The route across the  Pacific Ocean  was once Qantas’s most
profitable, when it only competed with United Continental
Holdings Inc. Since 2008, Virgin Blue and Delta have added
trans-Pacific flights from Australia.  Share Performance  Qantas gained 0.8 percent to A$2.43 as of 12:52 p.m. in
Sydney trading, and have declined 4.3 percent this year compared
with a 2.5 percent gain in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index. The
stock fell 15 percent last year and was the worst performer
among the 29 stocks in the Bloomberg World Airlines Index.  Net income for the six months ended Dec. 31 may rise almost
fivefold to A$281 million, analysts at Macquarie Group Ltd. said
in a Feb. 4 report. Qantas reports first-half earnings Feb. 17.  The company has 65 percent of the Australian domestic
airline market, including more than 90 percent of corporate and
business travel.  Joyce said he wants to use more of that market power to
draw customers to international routes. Virgin Blue, whose CEO
John Borghetti is a former Qantas executive, is aiming to expand
its market share inside  Australia  and on international routes
through its alliance with Etihad.  “Qantas is a portfolio business and the best part is the
frequent flyer program, which is so lucrative,” said Harbison.
“They can’t afford to see frequent flyers going onto
Emirates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net  