-- REITs Seek to Lure U.S. Pension-Fund Money From Private Equity
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2011-02-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/reits-take-on-private-equity-funds-for-bigger-piece-of-u-s-pension-money.html
U.S. real estate investment trusts
are seeking a bigger piece of the more than $500 billion of
property investments from pensions, aiming to attract money from
the private-equity funds traditionally favored by managers.  The  National Association of REITs  found that a portfolio 30
percent invested in commercial property shares delivered a
higher return relative to one more heavily tilted toward
private-equity funds, based on a study to be published today on
the group’s website. Pension funds typically put less than 10
percent of their real estate allocations into publicly traded
REITs to protect against stock-market volatility.  The Washington-based real estate association, which
represents about 200 companies, says that what it calls “the
REIT third” can help state and corporate pensions  narrow  a
funding shortfall that totals almost $1.5 trillion, according to
the Center for Retirement Research at  Boston College . A bigger
REIT allocation, and a smaller one in private equity, would
offer better diversification and more consistent returns, said
Brad Case, NAREIT’s vice president for research.  The trick is in the timing, he said.  “The public side is liquid, so therefore when investors
start to get concerned about the future of asset values, they
sell their REIT stocks, whereas they can’t get out of their
private-equity real estate funds,” he said in a telephone
interview. “That lag is what gives the institutional investor
the diversification benefit.”  Three Fund Types  The NAREIT study analyzed 22 years of data encompassing
both the 2008 credit crisis and the savings and loan collapse of
the early 1990s. It examined REIT returns compared with the
three main types of real estate private equity: so-called core
funds, which buy properties with mostly cash; high-yield
“opportunity” funds, which can use as much as 70 percent
borrowed money and aim to boost returns beyond 20 percent; and
“value-added” funds, which exist between the two.  The study found that a portfolio consisting of 30 percent
REITs, 49 percent in core private funds and 21 percent in high-
yield funds averaged an 8.2 percent annual return from 1992 to
the third quarter of 2010. A portfolio with 9 percent REITs and
20 percent in value-added funds returned 6.7 percent a year for
the same period. The NAREIT-preferred allocation also had a
superior Sharpe Ratio, a measurement that seeks to balance
volatility with return expectations.  The private and public sides of real estate are contending
for slices of what NAREIT estimates is a half-trillion dollar
pie, or about 10 percent of the $5.3 trillion in pension
investments.  Increasing Leverage  A portfolio 30 percent in REITs may add too much risk to
the investments, said Mark Roberts, global head of research at
Dallas-based Invesco Real Estate, an asset-management company
whose property-investment options includes private-equity funds.  “When you’re looking at that kind of composition of real
estate, what investors need to be mindful of is that is starting
to take the leverage level of their real estate portfolio
upwards of 40 or 50 percent or more,” he said in a telephone
interview. “Relative to, say, an unlevered real estate market,
that amount of leverage will double the volatility of returns.”  Invesco research shows that about 15 percent invested in
REITs maximizes returns without increasing risk, Roberts said.  The largest, best-known real estate private-equity funds
are run by investment banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .
and Morgan Stanley, as well as asset managers such as  Blackstone
Group LP , Starwood Capital Group LLC, and AREA Property Partners
LP. Many of them made their reputations with high-yield
opportunity funds that delivered annual returns of as much as 40
percent in the late 1990s.  Credit-Crisis Losses  There were 414 high-yield funds last year, down from a 2009
peak of 466, according to a March survey by Real Estate Alert, a
trade newsletter that covers commercial property investment.
After losses brought on by the 2008 credit crisis, those funds
reduced their equity-raising goals and yield targets, which
averaged 16.9 percent last year, according to the survey.  The Bloomberg REIT Index, a measure of 117 commercial
property stocks, fell 77 percent from its February 2007 peak to
its March 2009 low as credit dried up and real estate values
plummeted. It has since rebounded 176 percent.  Pension funds are “clearly” adding REITs to their
portfolios, said Anatole Pevnev, a principal with Cleveland-
based  Townsend Group , the biggest real estate consultant to
public pension funds, advising on about $105 billion of property
allocations. It’s “tough” to give numbers, since many funds
assign REITs to their public securities category, alongside
stocks such as Microsoft Corp. and  Google Inc ., instead of
listing them as property investments, he said.  Investor Opportunity  “As REITs got hit hard, it did give an opportunity for
investors to get into it,” Pevnev said in a telephone interview
last month. “There was a massive blow to the financial system.
The ability of the REITs to recapitalize themselves went a long
way to convincing investors that REITs are a viable long-term
investment.”  An October report by the Pension Real Estate Association
found that since 1994, the dawn of that decade’s commercial real
estate boom, private equity outperformed REITs when adjusted for
risk. REITs beat private funds by 1 percent per quarter in
return percentage, though with more than three times the
volatility, according to the report.  “NAREIT agrees that REITs are certainly more volatile, and
the fact of the matter is they’ve also had a higher return
historically than private equity real estate,” said Greg
MacKinnon, the association’s research director. “But if you do
that risk-versus-return comparison, private real estate comes
out on top. Really there’s room for both in a portfolio.”    Oregon ’s Pension  Katy Durant, a member of the  Oregon Investment Council  and
a retail property developer in  Portland , Oregon, said she’s not
inclined to push REITs at the expense of the private-equity
funds that have served her state pension funds well. Oregon
invests about 21 percent of its real estate allocation in REITs,
and 39 percent in high-yield opportunity funds, including  John
Grayken ’s Dallas-based Lone Star Funds, which has invested about
$24 billion since its 1995 founding, according to its website.  What matters is which funds you choose, Durant said. Oregon
has invested in seven Lone Star funds starting in 1996 and, as
of the third quarter, only one had a loss -- a 1.64 percent loss
in the 2005 fund, according to the state treasury website.
Returns aren’t given for the two most recent funds, both from
2008, because it’s too early for the figures to be meaningful,
said James Sinks, spokesman for the treasury. Returns on the
earlier funds ranged from 7.4 percent to 32 percent.  “I would like to think that Oregon, by virtue of how long
we’ve been playing private-equity and real estate partnerships,
they can pick from the cream of the crop,” Durant said. “I
would hate to have lowered our allocation to  Lone Star  and been
in a bucket of REITs the entire time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  