-- Canadian Stocks Rise as Gold Advances After China Raises Rates
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   J e n n i f e r   A .   J o h n s o n
-- 2011-02-08T21:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/royal-bank-southern-arc-thomson-reuters-canada-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose, led by gold
producers, as China’s markets reopened after the Lunar New Year
and its central bank raised two key  interest rates , boosting
precious-metal prices.    Barrick Gold Corp ., the world’s largest producer, advanced
2.5 percent as the metal increased to a two-week high.  First
Quantum Minerals Ltd ., the country’s second-largest publicly
traded copper producer, climbed 3.2 percent as an analyst raised
his share-price estimate and stockpiles of the metal declined
for a third day.  Telus Corp .,  Canada ’s third-largest wireless
carrier, slumped 1.6 percent after Vince Valentini, an analyst
at Toronto-Dominion Bank, cut his rating on the shares.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index advanced 80.59
points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 13,892.52 in Toronto, the
highest level since July 2008.  When the Chinese “raise rates, usually, the  U.S. dollar 
goes down, and you can see gold’s running pretty decent today,”
said Marcus Xu, director of equity investments at Genus Capital
Management in  Vancouver , which manages C$1.7 billion ($1.72
billion). “Investors in  China  want to buy gold to hedge against
inflation, too.”  The S&P/TSX gained 4 percent in the two weeks ending Feb.
4, the biggest two-week increase in 11 months, as economic data
indicated an expanding global economy and the conflict in  Egypt 
boosted energy and precious-metals stocks. For the year, the
equity benchmark had climbed 2.7 percent through yesterday.  China’s Interest Rates  The People’s Bank of China today raised the one-year
lending rate by a quarter point to 6.06 percent and the one-year
deposit rate an equivalent amount to 3 percent. That’s the third
increase in rates since mid-October. The deposit rate remains
almost 2 percentage points less than the pace of consumer-price
gains, giving savers an incentive to buy goods and assets.  Gold futures rose 1.2 percent to settle at $1,364.10 an
ounce in New York after the weeklong Chinese holiday. Silver
gained 3.2 percent. Precious metals tend to move in an opposite
direction from the U.S. dollar, which retreated against 10 of 16
other major currencies today.  “The Chinese are fighting the resurgence of inflation,”  Eric Sprott , chairman of money manager Sprott Inc., said in a
note to clients published yesterday. “To protect their wealth,
the populace is turning to gold and silver as a store of
value.”  Barrick advanced 2.5 percent to C$48.45.  Goldcorp Inc ., the
world’s second-largest gold producer by market value, increased
4.8 percent to C$42.76. Silver reseller  Silver Wheaton Corp .
climbed 3.3 percent to C$34.92.  ‘Buy’ Rating    Centerra Gold Inc ., which mines in Kyrgyzstan and Mongolia,
surged 10 percent, the most since Nov. 26, to C$18.60. Brian MacArthur, an analyst at UBS AG, raised his rating on the shares
to “buy” from “neutral.”  Nine of 15 S&P/TSX base metals and coal producers rose.
First Quantum gained for a seventh day, advancing 3.2 percent to
C$137.30. John Hughes, an analyst at Desjardins Securities,
raised his share-price estimate to C$163.25 from C$139 after a
tour of the country’s projects in Zambia.  Uranium One Inc., a producer of the nuclear fuel that’s
controlled by Moscow-based ARMZ Uranium Holding, increased 2.4
percent to C$6.54 after John Redstone, a Desjardins analyst,
boosted the shares to “buy” from “hold.” In a note to
clients, Redstone cited a higher forecast for uranium prices.  Six-Month Run  Telus fell 1.6 percent to C$48.89 after Valentini reduced
his rating on the shares to “hold” from “buy.” In a note to
clients, the analyst cited the shares’ 21 percent price increase
in the six months ending yesterday.  Energy stocks dropped for the third straight day as natural
gas declined to the lowest price in almost 12 weeks as the U.S.
National Weather Service forecast warmer-than-normal temperature
for next week in much of the country. Crude oil retreated for a
fourth day.    Encana Corp ., Canada’s largest natural gas producer, lost
1.2 percent to C$31.25. Penn West Petroleum Ltd., which produces
oil and gas in western Canada, decreased for a sixth day,
slipping 0.9 percent to C$25.96. Ivanhoe Energy, Inc., which
operates in China, slumped 3.3 percent to C$3.20.  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc., Canada’s largest construction and
engineering company, climbed 1.8 percent to C$61.92. The stock
has gained 4.2 percent in two days after Claude Proulx, an
analyst at Bank of Montreal, raised his share-price estimate to
C$70 from C$60 in a note dated Feb. 6.  In the note to clients, Proulx said SNC should trade at a
premium to Fluor Corp. and Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. because
it “has better earnings prospects, is more diversified and
outperformed the two companies during the recent downturn.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Johnson in  New York  at 
 jjohnson156@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  