-- RTS, Micex Merger May Lead to $1 Billion IPO, Da Vinci Says
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2011-02-07T07:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/rts-micex-merger-may-lead-to-1-billion-ipo-within-year-da-vinci-says.html
The merger of  Russia ’s two largest
exchanges, the Micex and the RTS, may lead to a $1 billion
initial public offering within a year and bring “clarity” to
tie-up talks with Deutsche Boerse AG, Moscow-based Da Vinci
Capital said.  Shareholders of the Micex bourse agreed to buy a
controlling stake in rival RTS in a deal valuing the exchanges
at $5 billion, central banker Alexei Ulyukayev said Feb. 1. A
legally binding accord will be signed in the second half of
April, he said. Bank Rossii is Micex’s main shareholder with a
29.8 percent stake.  “We are targeting a valuation of $7 billion to $8
billion,” Oleg Jelezko, managing partner at Da Vinci, which has
a 15 percent stake in the  RTS , said in a telephone interview
Feb. 4. “This can be achieved through organic growth,
synergies, a number of projects in Ukraine and  Kazakhstan  and
international partnerships.”  President  Dmitry Medvedev  has encouraged a union between
the two to lure investors in his bid to make Moscow an
international financial center. Portfolio managers like  Capital
International Asset Management Inc.  and  Fidelity Investments 
“are interested in using the combined exchange,” Jelezko said.
“It will greatly boost liquidity and modernize settlement and
clearing.” The Micex handles about 70 percent of all equity
transactions in Russia, he said.  The value of Da Vinci’s 2008 investment in the RTS has
doubled to $150 million, according to Jelezko.  The deal may accelerate a possible share-swap deal with
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse,  Europe ’s largest by market
value, Jelezko said.  “We can resume talks with Deutsche Boerse now with more
clarity after agreeing the merger,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  