-- Rusal Blocks Voting Rights on Norilsk Stake Before EGM
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2011-02-07T17:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/rusal-blocks-voting-rights-on-norilsk-stake-before-egm-update1-.html
United Co. Rusal (486)  won a court order
blocking the voting rights on shares totaling as much as 15
percent of OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel before a shareholders’ meeting
to re-elect the nickel producer’s board of directors.  A court in St. Christopher & Nevis, in the Caribbean,
issued the order barring Norilsk affiliates Corbiere Holdings
Ltd. and Raleigh Investments Inc. from using the voting rights
or selling shares they hold, said Rusal, owner of a 25 percent
stake in Norilsk, in an e-mailed statement today.  Norilsk on Dec. 20 agreed to sell 8 percent of its shares
held by affiliates to Trafigura Beheer NV, the second-largest
industrial metals trader. Corbiere agreed Jan. 24 to buy back
7.2 percent of Norilsk from shareholders for $3.47 billion.  “The order also precludes these companies from taking any
further steps with respect to the Trafigura transaction,” Rusal
said in the statement. Norilsk confirmed the court ruling and
its press office said by e-mail that it would contest the order.  Rusal’s Chief Executive Officer Oleg Deripaska is battling
for control of Norilsk with fellow billionaire Vladimir Potanin,
who dominates the nickel producer’s management. Deripaska
rejected a proposal to sell Rusal’s stake in Norilsk for $12
billion in December, and said the market value of the holding
may increase to as much as $17.5 billion by the end of the year.  Dividend Unlikely  “The Nevis court decision is aimed at blocking about 15
percent from voting at Norilsk’s extraordinary shareholders’
meeting scheduled for March 11,” Dmitry Smolin, an analyst at
UralSib Financial Corp., said by telephone. “This increases
Rusal’s chances of re-electing the directors.”  The last date for shareholders’ to register for voting at
the extraordinary general meeting, scheduled for March 11, was
Feb. 4, according to information on Norilsk’s website.  Norilsk,  Russia ’s largest mining company, suspended the
buyback after the interim court order, it said in a separate e-
mailed statement today. Rusal is seeking dividend payments
rather than a buyback to help the aluminum producer pay debt.  Spending on the buyback would be equal to about 70 percent
of expected 2010 net income of more than $5 billion, a person
with knowledge of the matter said on Jan. 19, declining to be
identified because the transaction wasn’t yet completed. Norilsk
was rewarding shareholders through the buyback and as a result
would be unlikely to pay dividends this year, the person said.  “I don’t expect the buyback to be reversed,” said Dmitriy Kolomytsyn, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in Moscow. “However,
the uncertainty may put pressure on Norilsk’s share price. It
also harms the stakeholders who tendered their shares hoping to
cash out from Norilsk quickly. The overall negative sentiment
might also affect Norilsk bondholders.”  Norilsk fell as much as 2.9 percent to 7,225 rubles and was
at 7,379.35 rubles at the 6:45 p.m. Moscow close. Its ruble debt
due 2013 fell, pushing the yield up 2 basis points to 7.21
percent. A basis point is 0.01 of a percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 