-- Saban Reboots ‘Power Rangers’ With New Shows to Recapture Glory
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2011-02-07T05:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/saban-reboots-power-rangers-with-new-shows-to-recapture-glory.html
Billionaire Haim Saban, who bought
back the “Power Rangers” franchise he founded from  Walt Disney
Co . last year, reboots the show today on Nickelodeon, part of an
effort to rekindle the kids series’ 1990s success.  “Power Rangers Samurai” anchors a $200 million effort to
attract new fans, recapture old ones and spur advertising, toy
sales and earnings for the library of 700-plus episodes in the
franchise, which once dominated children’s TV.  “To revitalize the brand, to re-engage it in not just the
fan base of kids but in consumer culture again, we needed to
come out with a very strong program that would speak to a
current audience,” Elie Dekel, president of closely held Saban
Brands, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s  Los Angeles  office.  To jump-start “Power Rangers Samurai,” Saban Brands has
funded 40 new episodes and hired about 400 staffers, Dekel, 46,
said. The larger goal for the company is to assemble a portfolio
of consumer brands for use in TV, films and online, and to
create broader merchandise opportunities, he said.  “We look for rights that we think can be developed and
extended further than they have been,” Dekel said. “We’ve
looked for publishing properties, we’ve looked at estates of
iconic personalities. We continue to keep a very open mind as to
where our approach can be a catalyst for growth.”  Including marketing and other support from Saban’s
partners,  Viacom Inc .’s Nickelodeon channel and toy licensee
Namco Bandai Holdings, the investment in “Power Rangers” tops
$200 million, Dekel said. Video games for Nintendo Co.’s Wii and
DS will be released this year, and a movie may follow in time
for the live-action series’ 20th anniversary in 2013, Dekel
said.  Brand Affinity  Saban was smart to start with a media property he knew so
well, David Maisel, the former chairman of Marvel Studios, said
in an interview. Established brands like the “Power Rangers”
have an advantage over new series in competing for viewers on
broadcast, cable and online outlets, he said.  “Everything has a risk,” Maisel said. “But this has the
ingredients to be a success for them given their prior history,
knowledge and affinity for the brand.”  The model for Saban Brands is Saban Entertainment, the
outfit Disney acquired in 2001 as part of the Fox Family Channel
for $5.2 billion. Fox Family was formed by combining kids’ Saban
Entertainment and News Corp.’s Fox Kids in 1997.  Saban Brands was created in May, with $500 million of
backing from Los Angeles-based Saban Capital Group. Within a
week, the company had acquired the “Power Rangers” and moved
the franchise to Nickelodeon, owned by New York-based Viacom
Inc.  Dekel plans to make more acquisitions at Saban Brands this
year and next, focusing on lifestyle, fashion and personality-
driven properties costing from tens of millions to hundreds of
millions of dollars, he said.  Assembling Brands  In August, Saban Brands bought the  Paul Frank Industries 
fashion line to gain rights to characters including the monkey
Julius.  Haim Saban has previously sold other media properties
including  Germany ’s ProSiebenSat.1. No decision has been made on
whether to ultimately sell Saban Brands, take it public or keep
it, Dekel said.  “At this point we’re keeping our options wide open,”
Dekel said. “We’re looking at strategic acquisitions and
strategic growth of those acquisitions with a particular
specialty that is unique in the market.”  “Mighty Morphin’ Power Rangers,” about four teenagers who
battle the evil Rita Repulsa, first aired in 1993, spawning
sales of costumes and, over the years, at least 11 video games.
A 1995 movie, made for about $15 million and distributed by  News
Corp .’s Twentieth Century Fox, garnered $63.7 million in
worldwide ticket sales, according to Imbd.com.  Familiar Hands  Saban Brands brought back Jonathan Tzachor, the show’s
original producer, as executive producer of “Power Rangers
Samurai.” In the show, a new generation of teens must master
the ancient Samurai symbols of power to gain control over the
elements of fire, water, sky, forest and earth.  “Fortunately the kids audience keeps reinventing itself,
so there’s always new fans, and those fans will have hundreds of
episodes to dive into once they become fans of the new
program,” Dekel said.  Saban Brands owns 730 episodes of past “Power Rangers”
seasons, and its arrangement with Nickelodoen includes airing
those shows as well. Saban Brands is also considering licensing
the re-runs on online outlets such as  Netflix Inc ., Dekel said.  “The landscape is changing so rapidly, and there’s so many
new ways in which fans consume content, that I don’t want to
rule any of those opportunities out, subject to the fact that we
have a very strategic partnership with Nickelodeon and that
comes first,” Dekel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  