-- San Miguel May Spend $4 Billion to Double Revenue in Five Years, Ang Says
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2011-02-07T10:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/san-miguel-may-spend-4-billion-to-double-revenue-in-five-years-ang-says.html
  San Miguel Corp ., the Philippines’
biggest food and drinks maker, plans to invest more than $4
billion to double revenue in five years by expanding its
ventures in energy, telecommunications and transportation.  The investments include government infrastructure projects
and purchases of energy assets overseas, President Ramon Ang
said in a Feb. 3 interview. He’s targeting 1 trillion pesos ($23
billion) in sales by 2016, compared with the 530 billion pesos
in revenue he expects this year.  San Miguel has about $2 billion in cash as it sold assets
to fund acquisitions in industries that could help boost its
return almost threefold from the 7 percent level it previously
earned from food and beverages. The Manila-based company will
receive at least half the proceeds from a share sale that may
raise more than 200 billion pesos this year, said Ang, 57.  “There will always be a learning curve but like other
companies, San Miguel will gain expertise through experience,”
said  Jonathan Ravelas , a strategist at Banco De Oro Unibank in  Manila .  San Miguel ’s investments in government projects may not
pay off without policies that “make it attractive for companies
to invest in infrastructure for the long haul,” he said.  Coal, Oil, Gas  San Miguel, which  started  making San Miguel Beer more than
a century ago, was unchanged at 179.50 pesos at the noon close
in Manila, after earlier falling as much as 2.5 percent. The
stock has gained 9.6 percent this year after surging 139 percent
in 2010, the biggest annual gain since 1993.  “Our priorities are to invest in government projects and
buy coal mines and oil and gas fields abroad,” said Ang.
“There’s a lot of cash” available and the funds used on
investments may exceed $4 billion, he said.  Ang has raised more than $3 billion from asset sales since
2008, helping fund San Miguel’s acquisitions, including a
controlling stake in Philippine oil refiner  Petron Corp ., the
contracts for four government-owned  power plants , coal mines and
the operator of the airport for the island resort of Boracay.
Chairman Eduardo Cojuangco has said the acquisitions will
“secure” the company’s future.  Petron, the Philippines’ largest refiner, will probably
contribute about 230 billion pesos to San Miguel’s sales this
year, making it the single-biggest source of revenue, Ang said.
San Miguel in December said it owns about 68 percent of Petron.  Cash May Double  “San Miguel expanded into sectors with good growth
prospects and high barriers for entry but entailing a lot of
capital investments,” said Fitz Aclan, who helps manage about
$12 billion at Banco de Oro Unibank in Manila. The company will
become “a key player in the sectors it has chosen,” he said.  San Miguel’s other investments include stakes in power
retailer  Manila Electric Co ., a toll road venture, a company
that has the contract to build a metro railway in Manila and 10
percent of  Indophil Resources NL , which has indirect holdings in
the Tampakan gold and copper mine in southern Philippines.  San Miguel’s cash may double to more than $4 billion this
year, Ang said. The company and its shareholders, including Top
Frontier Investment Holdings Inc., plan to sell 1 billion shares
for at least 200 pesos each as early as this quarter. Ang last
month said the price may “hopefully” reach 250 pesos a share.
The share sale will boost the company’s public float to about 40
percent from 11 percent, Ang said.  Petron Expenditure  “San Miguel has entered into good sectors but the stock is
frothy at current levels,” said Olan Caperina, who helps manage
$11 billion at Manila-based  Bank of the Philippine Islands .
“The shares are getting valued by some investors on
expectations that San Miguel’s expansion has already paid off.”  Petron may spend about $2 billion in three to four years
for refinery capacity upgrades and to produce petrochemicals
including propylene and polypropylene, Ang said.  “You don’t need high oil prices for Petron to make
money,” Ang said. “What you need is to be able to convert the
byproduct of crude oil into petrochemicals. Petron will become a
flagship for San Miguel.”  Petron’s investments may generate an additional $1 billion
in revenue, Ang said.  San Miguel is “very interested” in the $5.2 billion
Tampakan copper-gold mining project in the Philippines and may
ask Indophil Resources, which owns a third of the project, to
extend a Feb. 10 deadline to decide whether to acquire control
of the mining company, he said.  San Miguel opened its brewery in 1890, eight years before
the  Philippines  declared independence from  Spain .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  