-- Santander Bids $5.8 Billion to Buy Poland’s Zachodni
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2011-02-07T16:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/santander-bids-5-9-billion-to-buy-poland-s-zachodni-update1-.html
  Banco Santander SA  bid 16.6 billion
zloty ($5.8 billion) to acquire 100 percent of  Bank Zachodni WBK
SA , the Polish lender in which it agreed to buy a majority stake
from  Allied Irish Banks Plc  last year.  Santander offered to pay 226.89 zloty a share for Zachodni,
it said in a filing to regulators in Madrid today. The bidding
process will start Feb. 24 and end March 25, said the bank,
which is based in the Spanish port city of the same name.  Allied Irish in September agreed to sell its 70 percent
stake in Poland’s third-largest lender by market value after it
was ordered to bolster a balance sheet depleted by Ireland’s
economic slump and real-estate losses. Santander,  Spain ’s
biggest bank, is adding Poland to other growth markets such as  Brazil  as it seeks to become less dependent on the domestic
economy, which is struggling to emerge from its worst recession
in 60 years.  “The timing of the bid is a surprise to me,” Marek Juras,
head of equity research at UniCredit SpA’s unit in Warsaw, said
by phone. “Santander seems to be fully convinced it will
receive the approval from the regulator.”  The takeover is subject to approval by the Polish financial
regulator. Marta Chmielewska-Raclawska, a spokeswoman for the
authority, declined to comment on when the deal may be cleared.  Zachodni shares climbed 2.5 percent to 222.5 zloty at the
close of Warsaw trading, the highest price since January 2008.
Santander rose 0.4 percent to 8.95 euros in  Madrid .  100 Percent  The Spanish bank is required to bid for 100 percent of
Zachodni to comply with Polish rules, which stipulate an
investor must call a buyout bid when it declares an intention to
exceed a 66 percent stake in a publicly traded company.  Santander has now completed its geographical rollout and
doesn’t need to buy more banks to grow, Chairman  Emilio Botin 
said at a Feb. 3 news conference in Madrid. Santander has spent
more than $10 billion since June last year on buying business in
Britain, Germany and Mexico as well as Poland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  