-- Sara Lee Disarray Costs Shareholders About $1 Billion: Real M&A
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2011-02-07T14:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/sara-lee-disarray-costs-shareholders-about-1-billion-real-m-a.html
  Sara Lee Corp .’s managers, who failed
to boost the stock price buying and selling $12 billion in assets  
in the past decade, destroyed shareholder value by passing up  
three chances to sell the company in the last year.  The board of the 72-year-old maker of Ball Park hot dogs
and Hillshire Farm lunch meat, led by then-Chairman James Crown,
rejected approaches from  JBS SA , KKR & Co. and an Apollo Global
Management LLC group that valued Sara Lee at as much as $18.50 a
share, based on accounts from people with knowledge of the
negotiations who declined to be identified because the
discussions were private. The board asked for higher offers only
to turn them down later, the people said.  While Sara Lee pushed for a sale at about $20 a share,
according to two people, it decided to break itself up after
JBS, the world’s largest meat producer, and the Apollo group
dropped out without boosting their informal offers. After
spending $3 billion for businesses from coffee roasters to
fabric suppliers since 2000, and selling off more than $9
billion of units such as  Hanesbrands Inc ., its stock is still
worth almost $2 less than at the start of the last decade.  “The board felt pressured to do something and unless we
don’t understand the details, it seems to have given up on its
commitment to creating shareholder value in favor of just doing
something,” said  Tim Ramey , a former Sara Lee vice president of
strategy and corporate development who left the company in 2002
and called the recent saga “sad.” He is now an analyst with
D.A. Davidson & Co. in  Lake Oswego ,  Oregon .  Relative Value  Representatives for JBS of  Sao Paulo  and New York-based
Apollo and KKR declined to comment. Sara Lee’s Mike Cummins said
splitting up was the best option for shareholders.  “After careful consideration of multiple options, the
board unanimously approved dividing Sara Lee into two, pure-play
public companies because we believe this strategy is the best
way to unlock  shareholder value ,” said Cummins, a spokesman for  Downers Grove , Illinois-based Sara Lee. “This was a decision
based on facts, not rumors or speculation, and is one both the
board and senior management team stand behind 100 percent.”  The highest $18.50 per share informal offer that Sara Lee
passed up would have boosted its market value of $10.9 billion,
as of last week, by $946 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company’s market value had dropped by almost $9
billion from $19.6 billion at the start of 2000, the data show.  Sara Lee fell 10 cents to $16.92 at 9:41 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange trading. The stock was valued at $18.79 on Dec.
31, 1999. Since then, Sara Lee has made at least 10 acquisitions
and disposed of more than 30 businesses, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Rate of Return  Few have paid off. In 2005, when Sara Lee announced three
takeovers and seven asset sales in its busiest year of deal-
making, the company lost 22 percent of its value, the data show.
After raising $2.4 billion from its spinoff of Hanesbrands, Sara
Lee has underperformed the Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based
underwear maker since it started trading in August 2006.  While Sara Lee had climbed 15 percent in the past three
months before today as takeover speculation increased, the food
company’s 9.4 percent drop since the start of 2000 contrasts
with the 45 percent gain for consumer staples stocks in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Only four other companies in the
industry fell more than Sara Lee, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Even with dividend payments, the company’s competitors
returned more than twice as much to shareholders on average.  ‘Shareholder Discontent’  “There’s no doubt there’s a lot of shareholder discontent
out there,” said Roy Smith, a finance professor at the Stern
School of Business at  New York University  and former general
partner at New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc. A company
often decides to break up when their managers have “tried a lot
of things to get the stock price to go up and nothing they did
seems to make any difference,” he said.  With its shares languishing below $15 last year, Sara Lee
considered three unsolicited, informal approaches for the
company, people familiar with the matter said. Management
changes made it difficult for suitors to figure out whether Sara
Lee wanted to sell, the people said.  Crown found himself juggling the takeover offers and a
search for a chief executive officer after  Brenda Barnes , who
led Sara Lee for more than five years, resigned for health
reasons in August. General counsel Brett Hart left in November,
and Sara Lee also hired a new outside law firm, one person said.  Most recently, the company’s board told a group led by
Apollo and former consumer executive C. Dean Metropoulos not to
bother formalizing its proposal of $18.50, the people said. The
group was asked to leave the food company’s so-called data room,
where it was poring over Sara Lee’s books, they said.  Too Expensive  JBS gave up after determining it would be too expensive to
obtain financing that would have enabled it to raise its
informal offer of $17.50 in December, which Sara Lee rejected,
said people familiar with the situation.  As JBS tried to raise more money, its bank,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co ., talked with Apollo about joining its bidding group
instead, according to two people. JPMorgan Vice Chairman James B. “Jimmy” Lee Jr. spoke with turnaround czar Metropoulos,
whom Apollo planned to enlist to revamp Sara Lee, people said.  A JPMorgan spokeswoman declined to comment.  KKR, founded by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , discussed
a bid of about $15 with Sara Lee in early 2010 and raised the
price at the company’s insistence, the people said. Sara Lee
told the buyout firm the higher amount wasn’t enough, they said.  KKR Rebuffed  Unable to land Sara Lee, KKR and  Centerview Partners , along
with Vestar Capital Partners, in November agreed to buy San
Francisco-based Del Monte Foods Co. for $5.3 billion, including
net debt.  KKR had planned to bring in James Kilts, the former CEO of
Nabisco Inc. and Gillette Co., to lead Sara Lee. Kilts now runs
a private equity fund tied to New York-based Centerview. After
the talks with KKR, Sara Lee agreed to sell more of the company
piecemeal, including the North American fresh bakery business.  Jeffrey Ubben, CEO of ValueAct Capital Management LP and
one of Sara Lee’s directors, had pushed Barnes to dispose of
more assets and encouraged other board members to consider a
sale of the entire business, two people said. Some directors
resisted his suggestions, they said.  Sara Lee took more than five months to find a new CEO after
Barnes resigned, reflecting indecision among the board and
executives about the food company’s direction, said the people.  Coffee and Meat  Sara Lee is now dismantling itself by separating the coffee
and meat businesses, an option that it had been studying for
months, according to people familiar with the matter. The
company began in 1939 after Nathan Cummings, a Canadian-born
entrepreneur, bought a sugar and coffee distributor in Baltimore
called C.D. Kenny Co.  At its height, Sara Lee sold more than 100 brands in almost
200 countries.  Coach Inc ., the New York-based handbag business
it split off more than a decade ago, has gained more than 2,000
percent since its initial public offering in October 2000 and is
valued at $16 billion. During the same period, Sara Lee’s shares
rose 2.2 percent.  “We actually liked Sara Lee as a conglomerate back when
they wanted to spin everything off and unlock value,” said
Nicholas Gerber, president of Ameristock Corp. in Alameda,  California , who owned Sara Lee stock. “What they actually ended
up doing was slowly dismembering a great American firm.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  