-- Savvy Salerno-Sonnenberg Leads Orchestra, Owns Label: Interview
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2011-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/savvy-salerno-sonnenberg-leads-orchestra-records-on-own-label-interview.html
Violinist Nadja Salerno-Sonnenberg
burst on to the classical music scene in the early 1980s,
startling a staid audience with her purple jumpsuits, intense
fiddling and gyrating performance style.  She went on to collect major prizes, appear on the Johnny Carson show and make a lot of recordings. These days, her focus
is  San Francisco ’s  New Century Chamber Orchestra , where she has
been music director for three years. She’s touring with the
group this month.  Lundborg: What violin are you playing?  Salerno-Sonnenberg: I have a Guarnerius, Peter of  Venice ,
made in 1721. This instrument has the brilliance of a Strad and
the deepness of a Guarnerius and it just fits my hand very well.  Lundborg: Musicians regularly leave their instruments in
taxis. What about you?  Salerno-Sonnenberg: I got off of a plane once and forgot it
in the overhead bin. It was only five seconds, but still. It was
like falling dominos when I turned around and pushed my way back
in.  Lundborg: How do you divide your time?  Salerno-Sonnenberg: What takes the most time now is the
orchestra -- planning, talking, fundraising, cajoling, fixing,
damage control and practicing. The orchestra has been around for
20 years with a small but loyal audience, but we’re expanding
from four to five sets, plus two tours.  ‘Amazingly Gratifying’  Lundborg: So, this is your baby?  Salerno-Sonnenberg: It’s like having a lot of children, a
phenomenal responsibility but amazingly gratifying.  Every single music director I talked to before I took this
on told me not to get friendly with the players. It’s the one
piece of advice I’ve completely ignored.  Lundborg: How have things changed since you began your
career in 1981?  Salerno-Sonnenberg: When I first started playing, I felt
the arts were the underdog team, but that it was a good battle.
To watch that get more and more dire has been hard.  Lundborg: It doesn’t help that the classical music business
has collapsed.  Salerno-Sonnenberg: When I signed a recording contract with
a major company, it was like the old days in Hollywood, where
you were their property. They spent $15,000 just on my photo for
the cover. No more.  ‘Still Clawing’  Lundborg: Why did you start  NSS Music , your own recording
label?  Salerno-Sonnenberg: I was fed up, and I had to try. One
reason is the need for me and certain artists to get our work
out there after the recording industry died.  At the beginning I thought, “What the hell do you know?”
But I just released the tenth recording on this little label.  Lundborg: It’s stressful being an artist. What makes you
angry?  Salerno-Sonnenberg: What makes me mad is to see crap
rewarded. Here I am on the underdog team, still clawing.  Lundborg: Do you still read all your reviews?  Salerno-Sonnenberg: Yes, but they don’t have the power over
me they used to have.  Lundborg: When classical music was more mainstream, you
were a frequent guest on the “Tonight” show. What was that
like?  Salerno-Sonnenberg: Carson was a unique guy. We got along,
we clicked. I was always so happy to see him when he’d come into
the make-up room and we would catch up. He respected that I was
a young person who worked hard and achieved something. That was
his own work ethic, I think.  Lundborg: What’s the one thing you really wanted that
success has allowed you to have?  Salerno-Sonnenberg: I bought a place in Belize right on the
beach. It’s still being built, but it always lives in the back
of my head.  Information:  http://www.nadjasalernosonnenberg.com ;
 http://www.nssmusic.com   (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 