-- Shadow Banks, Dodd-Frank, UBS Notice: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2011-02-07T13:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/shadow-banking-dodd-frank-delays-ubs-wells-notice-compliance.html
Global regulators will develop
international rules for so-called shadow banks by the middle of
the year to ensure companies from hedge funds to securities
brokers aren’t excluded from efforts to prevent another crisis.  The  Financial Stability Board  is working to “map” or
“define” shadow banks, Svein Andresen, its secretary general,
said in an e-mail. The FSB will hold a teleconference on Feb. 7
to review the overhaul of international regulatory standards,
according to two people familiar with the discussions, who
couldn’t be identified because the talks aren’t public.  The shadow banking system had liabilities of about $16
trillion in the first quarter of 2010, the  Federal Reserve Bank
of New York  said in a report last year. Examples of shadow banks
include structured investment vehicles, credit hedge funds and
money market mutual funds, it said.  The  FSB , set up in 2009 by the Group of 20 countries to
spearhead changes to financial rules in the wake of the crisis,
is turning its attention to shadow banks to ensure that they
can’t be used by their owners and investors to escape
supervision. The issue is on the agenda for the FSB meeting this
week, according to one of the people.  Compliance Policy  SEC’s Casey, CFTC’s Gensler Raise Dodd-Frank Deadline Concerns  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission may not have
enough time to do a thorough job writing the financial-
regulation rules required by the Dodd-Frank Act, SEC
Commissioner Kathleen Casey said.  Casey made the comments in prepared remarks for the
Practising Law Institute’s SEC Speaks conference Feb. 4 in  Washington .  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in response to
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, calls for
the SEC to approve more than 100 rules and conduct 20 studies.
The agency has proposed 24 rules and adopted six so far, SEC
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in a speech at the same  conference .  The agency is struggling to cope with budgetary constraints
as it faces the Dodd-Frank rulemaking requirements and a full
pipeline of cases stemming from the financial crisis, said
Schapiro, who also spoke at the PLI conference Feb. 4. The
budgetary problems are “a strain” on the agency’s “core
mission,” Schapiro said.  Casey, one of two Republicans among the five commissioners
and the panel’s longest-serving member, said the burden on the
agency is six times what was imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act,
making that 2002 law seem “almost quaint in comparison.”  Separately, the U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
may stagger the effective dates for Dodd-Frank Act rules to
govern the $583 trillion swaps market to allow more time for
comment, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said Feb. 4 in a speech to
an American Bar Association law committee that met in Naples,
Florida.  Gensler delivered the speech by teleconference because of
the agency budget strains, he said.  The CFTC and the SEC are leading efforts to write rules for
the swaps market after largely unregulated trades helped fuel
the 2008 credit crisis. Dodd-Frank gives the agencies until mid-
July to approve the final rules and allows at least 60 days
after that before they must be implemented by swap-market
participants such as Wall Street banks,  hedge funds  and
clearinghouses.  Gensler’s comments come after 11 financial-industry trade
associations urged regulators in a Dec. 6 letter to slow the
pace of rulemaking.  For more on the SEC budget, click here.  Danish Objections to Basel Covered-Bond Limits Considered  Danish objections to covered bond liquidity limits under
new Basel III rules are being considered by European lawmakers
who will advise member states whether to adopt the new rules,
Othmar Karas, an Austrian official said.  Karas is a European Union lawmaker who guides work on Basel
III in the  European Parliament . A report due in June showing how
Basel III will affect European banks will clarify the matter, he
said Feb. 4 at a press briefing in Vienna.  Basel III will require banks to hold a buffer of highly
liquid assets, but the extent to which it can be filled with
covered bonds will generally be capped at 40 percent, with the
bonds subject to a cut in value. The minimum liquidity
requirement is set to be introduced at the start of 2015.  The Danish government has said that Basel III will force
banks to dump covered bonds. Danish economy Minister Brian
Mikkelsen has raised the matter with the commission.  CoCos Market May Reach 700 Billion Euros, Barclays Says  The contingent convertible  bond market  could increase to as
much as 700 billion euros ($950.3 billion) during the next seven
years as European banks seek to bolster capital, Barclays
Capital analysts said.  The yield on the securities may attract hedge funds and
high-net-worth investors, while investment banks may include
CoCos in employees’ pay, analysts led by Simon Samuels and Mike
Harrison said in a report to clients today.  European Union rules on UCITs, a type of regulated fund,
that hamper holdings of convertible securities, and uncertainty
around how the Solvency II insurance rules will be implemented
may hinder sales of the securities to traditional fixed income
investors, the analysts said. CoCos will need to be included in
fixed income indexes to attract buyers, they said.  Global regulators are pushing banks to issue CoCo bonds
which automatically convert into equity when capital falls below
a pre-set level, to lessen the potential burden of bank failure
on taxpayers. Lenders are also weighing plans to include CoCos
in investment bankers’ pay to align remuneration and risk.  Compliance Action  UBS May Be Sued by SEC Over Puerto Rico Closed-End Bond Funds    UBS AG  may be sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission over the sale of mutual funds that bought $1.5
billion in bonds Switzerland’s largest bank had underwritten in
Puerto Rico.  The SEC’s Miami office issued a Wells notice to UBS
Financial Services Inc. of Puerto Rico and UBS Financial
Services Inc. regarding “secondary market trading and
associated disclosures” of closed-end funds sold in the
Caribbean island in 2008 and 2009, the Zurich-based company said
in a  report to investors . The notification typically lets
recipients respond to investigators’ claims before the agency
approves legal action. The SEC may decide to not pursue a case.  UBS, a former financial adviser to the Employees Retirement
System that provides pensions for the island’s government
workers, led the 2008 sale of $2.9 billion in bonds by the
pension fund. The bonds represented about 17 percent of the
funds’ $8.9 billion in assets at the time.  “UBS believes the funds have been excellent long-term
investments for investors and has submitted a formal response
outlining the reasons why it believes no enforcement action is
warranted,”  Karina Byrne , a spokeswoman for UBS, said in an e-
mailed statement. She also said the negative financial results,
if any, to the shareholders who traded their shares through UBS
during the relevant periods were less than $5 million in the
aggregate. That amount is less than 1 percent of the value of
the funds purchased in the secondary market, Byrne said.    John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC in Washington,
declined to comment.  For more, click here.  SEC Probe of China-Based Firms Led to Delistings  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s probe of
possible accounting fraud at China-based companies listed on
U.S. stock exchanges has prompted some of the firms to delist,
an agency official said.  The SEC, which is also probing U.S.-based firms that review
those companies’ disclosures, sanctioned a California auditor in
December for signing off on fraudulent financial statements by a
Chinese energy company.  Regulators have targeted companies that obtained U.S.
listings through so-called reverse mergers, transactions in
which a closely held firm acquires one that is publicly traded
and becomes able to sell shares without an initial public
offering. About 370 Chinese firms have obtained listings through
reverse mergers since 2004, according to DealFlow Media Inc.  The SEC launched its probe amid concerns that some of those
firms may be doctoring their financial statements to attract
investors. Some U.S. auditors may be signing off on financial
statements without due diligence, letting fraud go undetected,
Wayne Carnall, chief accountant of the SEC’s  Division of
Corporation Finance , said last April.  The Public Company Accounting and Oversight Board, created
by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to oversee auditors of public
companies, is blocked from inspecting audit firms in some
countries, including  China .  Citigroup Fined by Japan Financial Regulator Over Late Reports    Citigroup Inc ., the third-largest U.S. bank, was fined 23
million yen ($282,000) by Japanese financial regulators for
filing late and erroneous reports.  The fine was announced in December and handed down Feb. 4,
according to a statement on the Financial Services Agency’s
website.    Germany  Can’t Freeze CO2 Permits as Czechs Warn of Contagion  The German carbon registry said it can’t freeze permits
despite reports that it received stolen allowances from the  Czech Republic .  German law allows permits to trade freely unless there is
legal action, said Julie Steinen, spokeswoman for the German
emissions-trading authority DEHSt. She declined to say whether
permits reported missing from the Czech registry were found in
Germany.  The Berlin-based national registry, which keeps tabs on
emission allowances, reopened Feb. 4 after a 15-day halt imposed
by the European Union. The suspension followed hacking attacks
in January that left about 2 million permits missing. The Czech
registry said permits were stolen from its accounts and
illegally transferred to Germany, the U.K. and Estonia.  For more, click here and click here.  BlueNext SA, the Paris-based spot carbon exchange, resumed
trading Feb. 4 in one of the first attempts to restore a market
marred by 15 days of suspension. Opening alongside BlueNext and
the registry in Germany were registries that keep tabs on
emission allowances in France, the U.K., the Netherlands and
Slovakia. Most of  Europe ’s 30 national registries remain closed
as they await  European Commission  approval of reports showing
they have adequate security.  Meantime, futures for later delivery dates haven’t been
affected by the halt and continue to trade on  ICE Futures Europe 
and other exchanges.  For more, click here.  Clearwire Is Latest Stock Halted by Circuit Breakers    Clearwire Corp ., a provider of wireless broadband services,
had its trading halted Feb. 4 by U.S. circuit breakers, making
it the latest among 19 companies to be subject to the regulatory
action since it was implemented in June, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The curbs were created after the 20-minute rout on May 6
erased $862 billion from the value of U.S. shares before prices
rebounded. The pause lasts five minutes for Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and  Russell 1000 Index  companies as well as  more than
300  exchange-traded funds when they rise or fall at least 10
percent within five minutes.  For a table listing the companies, click here.  FSA Fines Corporate Finance Adviser $242,000 for Market Abuse  The U.K. Financial Services Authority fined a former
corporate-finance executive at Zimmerman Adams Intl. 150,000
pounds ($242,000) for breaching market-abuse rules.  The FSA also banned David Massey from “performing any role
in regulated financial services” after he made a profit of
100,000 pounds by short-selling shares of Eicom, a digital
broadcaster, knowing that the company “was prepared to issue 3
million shares to him at a substantial discount,” the FSA said
in an e-mailed statement today.  The FSA has stepped up its efforts against market abuse,
making it an agency priority.  Atlantic Law LLP , a London-based law firm which the FSA
said represented Massey, didn’t immediately respond to a call
seeking comment.  Courts  Picard Seeks $295 Million From Mets Owners in Lawsuit  The trustee in the Bernard Madoff bankruptcy is seeking
more than $295 million from the owners of the  New York  Mets,
claiming they ignored warnings of the fraud because they were
“in too deep” financially.  In a complaint unsealed Feb. 4, the trustee,  Irving Picard ,
is seeking to recover alleged phony profits from Madoff’s scheme
from Sterling Equities Inc., which owns the Mets baseball team,
along with Mets LP, Mets Chairman Fred Wilpon, Mets president
Saul Katz and chief operating officer Jeff Wilpon, and almost
100 related parties. Picard also claims an unspecified amount of
principal from the Sterling defendants.  The complaint was filed under seal Dec. 7, to facilitate
settlement negotiations in the case, the trustee and the owners
said. On Feb. 3, both sides sent letters to U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Burton R. Lifland in Manhattan telling him that the talks
had ended amid media disclosure of some of the contents of the
complaint.  The Sterling partners had more than $500 million in their
Madoff accounts at the time of his failure, their lawyers said
in a statement Feb. 4.  Wilpon and Katz said that none of the Sterling partners
ever suspected Madoff was running a fraud.  According to the complaint, the Mets used $90 million in
Madoff profits to help fund the team’s day-to-day operations.  Sterling also used Madoff profits to meet capital
commitments for its real estate funds, Picard said in the
filing. In addition, Madoff profits provided cash flow for
Sterling’s internal bank, “a clearing house” for funds and
obligations among Sterling partners, their families and trusts,
he said.  Sterling, founded in 1972, opened its first Madoff account
in 1985. Madoff held Mets season tickets with seats close to
Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 10-AP-5287,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  SEC Names Cahn Top Lawyer to Replace Departing Becker  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission promoted Mark
D. Cahn to general counsel as the agency fulfills the mandates
of the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul to write more than 100
rules and issue 20 studies.  Cahn, 49, who has been deputy general counsel, has worked
at the SEC since 2009, the agency said in a statement Feb 4. He
will replace David M. Becker, whose departure at the end of the
month was announced Feb. 1.  The general counsel plays a central role evaluating rules,
advising the commissioners and representing the SEC in legal
disputes. Cahn already has counseled the commissioners on
litigation, appellate and enforcement matters, according to the
statement.  Dutch Minister Names Top Civil Servant to Lead Regulator AFM  Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager named his top
civil servant, Secretary-General Ronald Gerritse, to lead
financial-industry regulator  AFM .  Gerritse, a secretary-general since 2003, will succeed
outgoing AFM Chairman Hans Hoogervorst on May 1, ministry
spokeswoman Karin Donk said by telephone Feb. 4.  The Amsterdam-based  Authority for the Financial Markets 
regulates business at banks and securities firms, while the
Dutch central bank, led by  Nout Wellink , oversees systemic risks
in the country’s financial industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 