-- Shell Said to Offer Gazprom Assets to Expand LNG Plant
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2011-02-08T10:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/shell-said-to-offer-gazprom-assets-to-gain-lng-plant-expansion.html
  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  may offer OAO
Gazprom assets in  Asia  in exchange for a deal to expand Russia’s
only liquefied gas export plant, part of talks on a wider global
alliance, said people with knowledge of the negotiations.  Shell wants to add a third liquefied natural gas production
unit at the $22 billion Sakhalin-2 venture north of Japan,
raising output 50 percent. The Hague-based company is selecting
overseas assets to win support from Gazprom, said three people,
declining to be identified because the plans are private. Shell
may gain access to new offshore blocks to supply the plant.  The talks follow an agreement in November to expand
cooperation between  Europe ’s largest oil company and  Russia ’s
gas export monopoly. Shell Chief Executive Officer Peter Voser
and Gazprom’s  Alexei Miller  have set deadlines for the
negotiations, one person said, without elaborating.  Shell, Exxon Mobil Corp. and BP Plc are teaming up with
state-run companies to gain access to resources in Russia, the
world’s biggest producer of oil and gas. For their part, Russian
producers are looking to expand overseas and maintain output at
home using foreign expertise. Last month, BP agreed with OAO
Rosneft to swap shares, explore three blocks in Russia’s Arctic
waters and possibly work abroad.  In addition to the talks on Sakhalin, the two companies are
exchanging data on  oil fields  in west Siberia, where they run
the Salym Petroleum venture, two people said. The November
accord covered possible oil and gas projects in west Siberia,
Russia’s Far East and abroad, as well as European refining and
retail.  Government Pressure  Shell, which agreed to cede control of Sakhalin-2 to
Gazprom in 2006 under government pressure, is pushing to expand
the plant and win markets in  China  and  India . Gazprom has held
back on agreeing to expand Sakhalin-2 while it examines a rival
plant near Vladivostok.  Gazprom will target areas of “strategic interest,” which
may include the Asia-Pacific region and LNG projects, one person
said. The list of possible assets in exchange for Sakhalin
expansions hasn’t been finalized, the people said.  Shell is spending about $50 billion in  Australia  over the
next decade to develop gas export projects. The company is also
drilling for unconventional gas in China.  “As Gazprom wants to be a major player in the LNG markets,
then I think Australia equity participation would be most
obvious” as a candidate for the Russian company, said  Oswald Clint , a senior analyst at Bernstein Research.  Full Capacity  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  invited the explorer to
participate in the nearby Sakhalin-3 and Sakhalin-4 oil and gas
projects during a June 2009 meeting with Voser and then CEO
Jeroen van der Veer.  “Gazprom are into bartering,” said Keith Bainbridge, a
partner in charge of gas at RS Platou LLP, a ship broker and
investment bank. “Shell still have bad memories over their
first exposure to Sakhalin where they lost most of their
control. If any asset swaps, Shell will need to book reserves.”  The Sakhalin-2 plant started production in 2009, reaching
full capacity last year and accounting for 5 percent of global
production of the fuel, according to Shell. Gas may account for
more than half of Shell’s total production by 2012.  Gazprom, which seeks to boost Asian sales and Russia’s
share of the market, has considered options to join existing LNG
projects through acquisitions or swaps, according to the Moscow-
based company’s  website .  Retaining Control  Russian companies retain control of strategic oil and gas
projects with foreign partners. Russia may ease laws limiting
access to offshore reserves to spur exploration and production,
Denis Khramov, a Natural Resources Ministry, said last month.  Vera Surzhenko, a spokeswoman at Shell in Moscow, said the
companies are “considering opportunities” and declined to name
any assets outside Russia that they may consider. Within Russia,
Shell and Gazprom are looking at new projects on the basis of
existing assets, she said, declining to elaborate.  Sergei Kupriyanov , a Gazprom spokesman, declined to comment.  Gazprom owns 50 percent of Sakhalin Energy, the Sakhalin-2
operator. Shell holds 27.5 percent and Mitsubishi Corp. and
Mitsui & Co. also have stakes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  