-- Android Smartphones Gain at Nokia’s Expense, IDC Says
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2011-02-07T21:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/smartphone-shipments-rose-87-in-fourth-quarter-idc-says.html
  HTC Corp . and Samsung Electronics
Co., smartphone makers that sell handsets running on the Android
operating system, gained market share worldwide last quarter as
the  Google Inc . software became more popular.  Samsung, which unveiled the Galaxy line of Android-based
devices last year, almost tripled its share of the global
smartphone market to 9.6 percent as its shipments rose more than
fivefold, research firm IDC Corp. said today. HTC almost doubled
its portion to 8.5 percent and more than tripled shipments.  The top phone makers who didn’t use the Google software
lost or maintained market share, IDC said.  Research In Motion
Ltd ., which sells BlackBerry phones on its own operating system,
fell to 14.5 percent of the market from 19.9 percent a year ago.  Nokia Oyj , the biggest smartphone maker, slipped to 28 percent
from 38.6 percent.  Apple Inc ., which sells the iPhone,
maintained its share at 16.1 percent.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, gives away
Android for free to boost revenue from services such as mobile
advertising and expand the market for its search engine. A
separate report last week, from research firm Canalys, showed
Android became the world’s best-selling operating system for
smartphones last quarter.  U.S. Trend  The industry shipped 100.9 million smartphones during the
fourth quarter worldwide, a jump of 87 percent from a year
earlier, Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC said. For the year,
shipments totaled 302.6 million worldwide, up 74 percent from
2009, IDC said.  Operating systems control mobile devices much like similar
software on personal computers, and they come with a different
variety of applications and functions.  Similar trends are appearing in the U.S., according to
Reston, Virginia-based researcher  ComScore Inc.  While RIM
maintained its spot as the most popular smartphone operating
system, it declined in December to less than a third of the
market from 41.6 percent a year earlier. Google’s Android
operating system jumped to 28.7 percent of the market from 5.2
percent, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  