-- Reserves in South Africa Gain Most in 10 Months As Bank Buys More Dollars
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2011-02-07T08:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/south-african-gross-foreign-currency-reserves-climb-3-7-to-45-5-billion.html
South African reserves climbed the
most in 10 months in January as the central bank boosted foreign
currency purchases and the dollar weakened, boosting the value
of holdings in euros, pounds and other currencies.  Gross reserves rose 3.7 percent to $45.5 billion in January
from the previous month, while net reserves increased 2.5
percent to $44.5 billion, the  Reserve Bank  said on its website
today.  The Reserve Bank has increased its foreign currency
purchases to help curb a rally in the rand, which appreciated 11
percent against the dollar last year, reducing the
competitiveness of exports. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan 
pledged in his mid-term budget in October to transfer part of
the government’s tax revenue windfall this year to the Reserve
Bank to help it boost reserves.  “The unusually low interest-rate environment in the
advanced economies has resulted in increased capital flows to
emerging markets which have generally higher  interest rates  and
higher growth rates,” Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said on
Feb. 4. The rand’s gains have “adversely affected the
competitiveness” of the manufacturing industry.  The rand was at 7.2288 against the dollar as of 9:34 a.m.
in Johannesburg from 7.2497 before the data was released.  Treasury Help  The  National Treasury  increased its deposits with the
central bank last month, funding foreign currency purchases of
$668 million, the data showed. The central bank also bought $129
million in the month using long-dated forward swap transactions.  “Gross reserves rose mainly as a result of foreign
exchange purchases by the bank and valuation adjustments
associated with the depreciation of the  U.S. dollar  against
other major currencies,” the Reserve Bank said.  The euro gained 2.4 percent against the dollar in January,
while the pound climbed 2.7 percent, according to Bloomberg
data.  Gold reserves fell 5.6 percent to $5.3 billion in January
from the previous month after the price of bullion slid 6.2
percent to average $1,363.73 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 