-- Sprint Said to Announce Kyocera Smartphone at Event
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2011-02-07T21:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/sprint-said-to-announce-kyocera-smartphone-with-android-at-new-york-event.html
  Sprint Nextel Corp ., the third-
largest U.S. wireless carrier, will announce it is adding a  Kyocera Corp . smartphone to its lineup at an event in New York
today, said a person familiar with the companies’ plans.  The device, known as Echo, will run  Google Inc .’s Android
software, according the person, who declined to be identified
because the announcement details are confidential. According to
an invitation sent to the media, Sprint Chief Executive Officer
Dan Hesse will attend the event.  Bill White, a Sprint spokesman, didn’t return a voice mail
seeking comment. Midori Honda, a Kyocera spokeswoman in Tokyo,
declined to comment.  Sprint sells several devices from Kyocera, including the
Sanyo Innuendo and the Sanyo Zio Android smartphone, according
to  its website . The Zio is $49.99 with a two-year contract. The
Innuendo, which features a Qwerty keyboard, retails for $249.99
and is available for free with a contract.  Kyocera, based in Kyoto, Japan, makes telecommunications
equipment, liquid crystal displays and semiconductors.  Sprint does sell other Android phones, which compete with
the  Apple Inc . iPhone now offered by  AT&T Inc . and Verizon
Wireless, the country’s largest mobile-phone carriers. In June,
it introduced the Android-powered Evo from HTC Corp., the first
phone in the U.S. to use so-called fourth-generation wireless
service.  The carrier rented a space in New York’s Times Square for
the event tonight in which it promised “another industry
first.” The event will feature magician David Blaine, who is
known for feats such as being encased in a block of ice for 69
hours.  Sprint, based in Overland Park, Kansas, was unchanged at
$4.40 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Kyocera rose 10 yen to 8,820 yen in Tokyo today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in  New York  at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  