-- Stolen Carbon Permits Won’t Enter Market, Austrian Registry Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2011-02-07T19:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/stolen-carbon-permits-won-t-re-enter-the-market-austrian-registry-says.html
  Austria  said emissions permits traced
to accounts in Liechtenstein and  Sweden  after disappearing in a
computer-hacking attack last month will be blocked from trade as  Europe  seeks to shore up confidence in the market.  “The illegally transferred allowances have been frozen in
accounts in Liechtenstein and Sweden,” the Austrian registry
said today in a  statement  on its website. “There is no risk
that these allowances are traded on the market and thus no need
to publish the serial numbers of the affected allowances.”
Austria said Jan. 10 it lost 488,141 permits.
The BlueNext SA exchange in Paris, which resumed Feb. 4 after a  15-day halt, traded 165,000 metric tons, compared with a
20-day average of 134,000 tons prior to the halt. The spot price
closed at 14.27 euros, down 6 percent.  Legal questions about some 49 million euros ($66 million)
worth of permits stolen in at least five countries have shaken a
market valued last year at $110 billion. While five of the 30
national registries that keep track of permits got clearance
last week from the EU to resume operations, most remain blocked
after the hacking attacks left about 2 million permits missing
from accounts in Austria,  Greece ,  Italy  and the Czech Republic.  Holcim Ltd., a Swiss cement maker, has also yet to recover
1 million permits stolen by hackers in November, and 267,911
allowances have disappeared from Italy’s registry.  The carbon futures market wasn’t halted by the crisis. EU
allowances for December fell 0.5 percent to close at 14.64 euros
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . They are up 2.8
percent from the start of the year.  ‘Lack of Clarity’  BlueNext was open for a second day since the halt after
getting list from national registries to weed out questionable
permits. It received lists identifying serial numbers of
allegedly stolen permits from  Romania , Greece, Italy and the
Czech Republic, allowing them to be placed in isolation.  Prompt trading remains closed on ICE and the  Green Exchange 
in London. David Peniket, president and chief operating officer
at the exchange, said last week it will give at least 36 hours
notice before it resumes the next-day contract.  Investors are worried about “ the continuing lack of
clarity on the legal and criminal implications of the thefts,”
the Geneva-based International Emissions Trading Association
said in a statement last week. “Member states should develop a
set of common protocols and mitigation measures to protect a
market participant from suffering financial loss if he has
exercised all prudent measures to prevent the theft.”  The  Czech Republic  said last week it located 1.36 million
of illegally transferred permits on accounts in Estonia,  Germany 
and the U.K.  ‘Relevant Authorities’  The U.K. is in discussions on the Czech permits, said
Scarlett Elworthy, a spokeswoman for the Environment Agency.
“We are aware of allegations and we are co-operating with the
relevant authorities,” she said, declining further comment.  While Estonia moved to freeze the allowances, the German
registry said it couldn’t do so without “advice from police or
justice authorities.”  The EU  emissions system , started in 2005 as Europe’s main
tool for reducing the  greenhouse gases  linked to global warming,
is the world’s biggest cap-and-trade program. It was valued at
109 billion last year, Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates.  It could take “a long time, possibly years,” to resolve
who are rightful owners of any stolen EU allowances, Owen Lomas,
a London-based consultant at Allen & Overy LLP’s global climate
change practice, said Jan. 20 by telephone. “It’s difficult to
predict how long litigation might take as there may have been a
series of transactions that have gone through several
jurisdictions, with potentially conflicting laws.”  Out of Synch  The EU has said the recovery of any allowances transferred
illegally has not been harmonized in the 27-nation bloc and is a
matter for national law and local enforcement authorities.  In Germany, the law allows permits to trade freely unless
there is legal action, according to Julie Steinen, spokeswoman
for the German emissions-trading authority DEHSt. She declined
to say whether permits reported missing from the Czech registry
were found in Germany.  “No certificates in the German registry have been
frozen,” she said on Feb. 4. “The account holder to whom
certificates are registered can sell them or use them for
compliance. Those are valuable certificates.”  In  Estonia , officials have frozen accounts tied to Czech
and Hungarian nationals that are suspected in the disappearance.
Access to accounts where missing permits were found will be
frozen for 30 days, police spokeswoman Tuuli Annama said in a
phone interview from Tallinn last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  