-- Sudanese Troop Clashes Kill 55 in Upper Nile, Information Minister Says
-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 2011-02-07T12:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/sudanese-troop-clashes-kill-55-in-upper-nile-information-minister-says.html
Fighting among  Sudanese  government
troops in Upper Nile state killed as many as 55 people, the
state minister of information, Peter Lam Both, said.  Three days of clashes, which began in the state capital,
Malakal, on Feb. 3, spread to bases in Paloich, Melut and Maban,
Both said today by phone. Among the dead were 11 civilians, he
said.  The fighting broke out when some southern soldiers in the
northern army refused orders to move to northern  Sudan ,
Bartholomew Pakwan Abwol, the state director general of
information, said on Feb. 4 by phone from Malakal. Upper Nile is
one of 10 states in oil-rich  Southern Sudan , which voted for
independence from the north in a referendum last month.  “The situation in Malakal is quiet, things went back to
normal,” Sudanese army spokesman Al-Sawarmi Khaled said by phone
from Khartoum, the Sudanese capital.  The clashes in Paloich didn’t affect the operations of
 Petrodar Operating Co. , which is partly owned by China National
Petroleum Corp. and  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,
according to Philip Aguer, spokesman for Southern Sudan’s army.
Paloich is also the starting point for an oil pipeline from  Southern Sudan  to the Port of Sudan on the  Red Sea .  At independence in July the south will assume control of
almost three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil production of
490,000 barrels a day, the third-biggest in sub-Saharan  Africa .  The referendum was the centerpiece of a 2005  peace accord 
that ended a civil war which lasted almost 50 years, except for
a cease-fire from 1972 to 1983, between the Muslim north and the
south, where Christianity and traditional religions dominate.
About 2 million people died in the second phase of the conflict.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Johannesburg at +27-
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 