-- Egypt's Suleiman Gains Clout While Shunning Talk of Presidency
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2011-02-07T22:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/suleiman-gathers-power-as-spy-denies-egyptian-election-ambitions-for-now.html
Egyptian Vice President  Omar Suleiman , the man leading talks to create a new government, is
amassing power even as he denies ambitions to succeed  Hosni Mubarak  as president.  Suleiman, the intelligence chief appointed vice president
by Mubarak on Jan. 29, already has begun shaping the next regime
during the talks with opposition groups behind the mass
demonstrations demanding Mubarak’s immediate ouster.  Last week, Suleiman said that Mubarak’s son, Gamal, won’t
run for president. He invited the  Muslim Brotherhood  into
negotiations, the first time a government official has done so
since the state banned the group in 1954.  Suleiman’s tightening grip coincides with increased
stability in Egypt just days after the country appeared on the
brink of anarchy. Banks have opened and the government has
completed most of a record treasury bill sale.  Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  on Feb. 5 openly
praised the vice president as a “man of honor” who would keep
Egypt free of radical Islam.  “Clearly, he is the man now at the helm,” Maha Azzam,
analyst at  Chatham House ’s Middle East and North Africa Program,
said in a telephone interview from London. “He obviously has
the OK of the upper echelons of the military to be there for
now. He would want to hold on to that and obviously there would
be those, who were part of the regime and have supported it, who
would like him to run and stay on.”  Patriot and Strong Leader  Suleiman, 74, is presenting himself as a patriot and strong
leader after violence that saw more than 300 killed. In a Feb. 4
interview with state television, the former army general
dismissed U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s call for an immediate
transition of power as interference in domestic affairs, a
stance that resonates with Egyptians who resent U.S. influence
in the Middle East.  Asked whether he would run for president, Suleiman said on
ABC News’ “This Week with  Christiane Amanpour ” that he would
not.  ``I have no urges for to be president of this
country,'' he said. ``When the president asked me to be vice 
president, I accepted directly just to help the president in 
this critical time.”  Suleiman may become acting president if Mubarak hands power
over to him.  Der Spiegel , the German news magazine, citing
sources it did not identify, reported yesterday that a luxury
clinic near Baden-Baden was preparing to receive the Egyptian
president for treatment.  German Report  Suleiman “has the respect of the people,” said Sawiris,
chairman of  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE , the Middle East’s
biggest mobile phone operator by users. Sawiris, who met with
Suleiman on Feb. 5, said Egyptians need to “prevent a
kidnapping of the revolution by a fundamentalist movement like
an Iranian style of government.”  Suleiman’s ascent comes as the opposition delays putting
forward alternatives to Mubarak, who said Feb. 1 he won’t run in
September’s presidential election.  Mohamed ElBaradei , the former
head of the United Nations nuclear agency, only says he “won’t
let the Egyptian people down” if asked to stand. Nor has Amre Moussa, the secretary-general of the  Arab League , stated his
intentions. The former foreign minister is being pushed by at
least two groups on Facebook, a platform for opposition
activists.  ‘An Alternative’  Suleiman “is offering himself as an alternative,” said
Moustafa El-Husseini, author of   Egypt  on the Brink of the
Unknown. ‘‘This is the last card Mubarak has, that the military
establishment says that there is chaos and then bring Omar
Suleiman in to preserve its grip on power.’’  The four presidents who have ruled Egypt since the 1952
coup that overthrew the monarchy were from the military. The
prospect of stability appeared to calm markets.  The cost of insuring Egyptian sovereign debt fell 27 basis
points, or 0.27 percentage point, to 339, the lowest since Jan.
25, according to CMA prices in London. The yield on Egypt’s 5.75
percent bond maturing in April 2020 fell 39 basis points to 6.21
percent as of 6:27 pm in Cairo, the lowest level since Jan. 26,
according to Bloomberg composite prices.  Suleiman is tainted in the eyes of some Egyptians by a
career that has moved in lockstep with Mubarak’s regime. He has
run the country’s intelligence service since 1993, and in 1995
the two men survived an assassination attempt by Islamist
radicals during an African summit in  Addis Ababa .  Low Profile  On the morning after Suleiman’s appointment as vice
president, signs appeared in Tahrir Square that read: ‘‘Mubarak
and Suleiman: Get Out.”  While Suleiman has had a low public profile in his own
country until last week, he’s been the main contact person for
some of Egypt’s key allies and neighbors for years. He helped
negotiate the end of  Israel ’s bombardment of Gaza in January
2009 and unsuccessfully sought the release of Gilad Shalit, an
Israeli soldier seized by Hamas in 2006.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  on Feb. 5 endorsed
Suleiman’s leadership of the transition as a way to ease Mubarak
out of office without creating a vacuum that might “derail the
process.” Suleiman on Feb. 6 promised to produce within one
month a list of reforms needed to hold free elections.  “It’s important to support the transition process
announced by the Egyptian government headed by Vice President
Suleiman,” Clinton said in Munich on Feb. 5.  For some Egyptians spooked by a week of violence, Suleiman
has been a steadying force.  “If there were election tomorrow, I would vote for him,”
Khaled el-Manyalawy, 45, a dentist, said by telephone. “He is a
veteran in politics. He has the decisiveness of the military and
he is not corrupt.”  -- With assistance from Maram Mazen in Cairo and Caroline
Alexander in  London . Editors: Digby Lidstone, Steven Komarow  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 