-- Super Bowl Players Fret About Next Season Amid Labor Dispute
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2011-02-07T05:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/super-bowl-players-worry-about-nfl-s-2011-season-amid-labor-dispute.html
Minutes after losing to the  Green Bay
Packers  in the Super Bowl, Pittsburgh Steelers offensive lineman
Jonathan Scott had another worry -- losing next season’s
paychecks.  “It’s sad to see this game we all love so much has always
revolved around money,” Scott said. “I pray they come up with
a resolution.”  Many National Football League players have started
preparing for a lockout, Scott, 28, said last night in a locker
room interview after the Steelers lost to the Packers 31-25 in
Arlington, Texas.  “I’m pretty sure guys are being careful as far as their
money,” he said.  NFL owners voted in 2008 to opt out of the labor deal after
this season, saying it didn’t account for costs such as building
stadiums. Negotiations on a new collective bargaining agreement
have focused on what share of revenue players should receive,
expanding the season to 18 games from 16, a salary ceiling for
rookies and health care.  The NFL estimates it may lose $120 million in revenue if a
deal isn’t reached by March 3, while about 500 of the league’s
1,900 players would be unable to sign free-agent contracts.
Other players would be unable to collect salary raises and
bonuses, and the league has said it might stop paying for
players’ health care.  “Both sides need to come together and work it out,”
Steelers linebacker Larry Foote said.  Other players in the Steelers’ locker room said they were
unconcerned.  “I don’t think about that stuff at all,” center Doug Legursky said.  Cornerback Ike Taylor added, “I’m pretty sure they’ll
figure something out, I just don’t know when.”  More Negotiations  Commissioner Roger Goodell said in a news conference last
week that the league and union needed “intensive, round-the-
clock negotiations” to reach an agreement before the deal
expires in March. “This is the window of opportunity to get
this done right,” he said.  The league and the NFL Players Association said in a joint
statement Feb. 5 that they have agreed to “increase the number,
length and intensity of bargaining sessions” in an attempt to
reach a deal before March. They held a negotiating session the
day before the Super Bowl that Goodell said was “beneficial”
during an interview on News Corp.’s Fox network, which broadcast
the  Super Bowl .  Asked if owners plan to lock out players if a deal isn’t
reached, Goodell said last week “we have not made any
determination on what happens March 4. The ownership is
completely focused on getting an agreement that works and is
fair to players and the clubs. And that’s their focus right now.
They are prepared for every outcome as they should be.”  More Records Sought  Union Executive Director  DeMaurice Smith  has called for the
NFL to reveal more of its financial records to help the players
understand the NFL’s position. Goodell has said the league has
released enough information.  “We have to get beyond this negotiating ploy of opening
the books, because that’s all it is,” he said. “The players
have more than sufficient information to understand why the
economics of this deal does not work.”  The NFL’s last labor-related work stoppage was in 1987.  Packers linebacker Clay Matthews, wearing his uniform pants
and a T-shirt after winning the title in his second year in the
league, smiled and said any labor action “could just make us
champs that much longer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Arlington,  Texas , at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  Mike Lee  in Arlington, Texas, at 
 Mlee326@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  