-- Super Bowl Fans Denied Seats in Dallas Will Get Free 2012 Tickets, $2,400
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2011-02-07T21:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/super-bowl-fans-denied-seats-get-free-2012-tickets-from-nfl.html
The  National Football League  will
provide free tickets to next year’s  Super Bowl , plus $2,400 each
to about 400 fans who were barred from temporary seating at
yesterday’s championship game.  The NFL and Dallas Cowboys owner  Jerry Jones  were trying to
break the Super Bowl mark of 103,985, set at the Rose Bowl in  Pasadena ,  California , in 1980, by putting in temporary stands
above the end zones, along the sidelines and selling standing-
room only tickets for stairwells. Not all the work was completed
and some of the seats remained vacant because of safety
concerns.  The announced attendance at  Cowboys Stadium  in Arlington,  Texas , for the  Green Bay Packers ’ 31-25 victory over the
Pittsburgh Steelers was 103,219.  “We apologize to those fans that were impacted by this,”
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said at a press briefing this
morning. “We will certainly do a thorough review and get to the
bottom of why it all occurred, but we take full responsibility
for that.”  The NFL offered fans who couldn’t be placed in other seats
a spot to watch the game on television, had them on the field
during the postgame celebration, gave them free food, beverages
and merchandise, and offered to refund three times the value of
their $800 tickets, league spokesman Brian McCarthy said in an
e-mail.  Refund Confusion  One ticket holder said she had received conflicting
instructions on getting a refund.  Amanda Saldana, 24, a dental assistant from  San Antonio 
said she received two letters from “official looking people”
claiming to be affiliated with either the NFL or Cowboys
Stadium.  One letter offered to refund her $800 ticket at face value
and another offered triple the value of her ticket, or $2,400.
Both said she had to send her tickets to the NFL for a refund.
She also said that while she was standing in line to get into
the stadium yesterday, her grandmother died after being in a
coma.  “I’m not sure what to do,” Saldana said in a telephone
interview. “I don’t want to give the ticket back because it was
my first Super Bowl, and my grandmother died. And now there are
these two letters, and I’m not sure which to believe.”  Jan Lamers, 52, a Packers’ shareholder from Appleton,
Wisconsin, said in a telephone interview today that she and her
family had been able to sit in vacant seats, though not the ones
they paid for. She said they were traveling to  Wisconsin  and
hadn’t been able to discuss a refund with the NFL.  Happy Winners  “We did get to see the game, we’re happy the Packers won,”
she said.  McCarthy said in a separate e-mail that the league was
still putting together a procedure to let fans know how to get
their money back.  “We were able to gather contact information from a number
of fans on-site,” he said. “We are finalizing plans and
procedures to contact all fans who are due refunds.”  Goodell said today at the news conference that he
understood why the fans were upset at not being able to have
seats in the stadium.  “And for the 400 that we were unable to relocate into
seats in the bowl, we are going to be reaching out to them and
we’ll be inviting them to the Super Bowl next year,” the
commissioner said.  The next Super Bowl is scheduled for Feb. 5 at Lucas Oil
Stadium in Indianapolis.  To contact the reporter on this story: Curtis Eichelberger in
Washington, at   ceichelberger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  