-- Super Bowl Fans Find Obstructed Game Views as NFL Misses Seating Record
-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2011-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/super-bowl-fans-find-obstructed-game-views-as-nfl-misses-seating-record.html
Thomas Campion, who spent $5,400 to
get his family obstructed-view seats at the  Super Bowl , said he
wasn’t happy to be a part of the  National Football League ’s
attempt to set an attendance record for its title game.  The NFL and Dallas Cowboys owner  Jerry Jones  were trying to
break the Super Bowl mark of 103,985, set at the Rose Bowl in  Pasadena ,  California , in 1980, by putting in temporary stands
above the end zones, along the sidelines and selling standing-
room only tickets for stairwells. The announced attendance at  Cowboys Stadium  in Arlington, Texas, was 103,219.  “Jerry Jones should not have sold these seats,” said
Campion, 49, managing director at  Merit Capital Partners  in  Chicago . He spent $900 a ticket for his family of six to sit in
temporary seats where a pillar partially blocked his view of the
field.  “I feel like we’re being taken advantage of,” his wife,
Diane Campion, 50, said.  The NFL was unable to seat 400 ticket holders because some
of the temporary seating wasn’t completed before yesterday’s
game, where the  Green Bay Packers  beat the Pittsburgh Steelers
31-25. Some of the seats were covered by black tarpaulins,
others sat empty during the game.  The league said it would refund triple the face value of
the $800 tickets to those who couldn’t be seated. It also took
them to a club area behind the Steelers’ bench to watch the game
on television. The fans also had the option of viewing the game
from standing-room-only platforms in the corners of the stadium.  Experience Ruined  “This is ruining my entire experience,” said Jan Lamers,
52, of Appleton,  Wisconsin . Lamers owns a share of the Packers -
- the NFL’s only publicly owned team -- and said she paid $800
for her ticket.  Inside, not all were upset with what they had to put up
with at the Super Bowl.  Elias Rodriguez, 52, of  Dallas , paid $350 for a standing-
room ticket between the third and fourth levels and said he was
happy.  “It’s a lot better than up there,” he said, motioning
toward the stadium’s uppermost seats. “I was real surprised --
good view.”  Fans who did manage to get to their temporarily installed
seats said they were disappointed that the views were
obstructed. Seats in the end zone were put on risers that fit
just under the seating decks above.  “This overhang is a little ridiculous,” said Jen Malara,
30, a program analyst from Pittsburgh who was sitting in Super
Bowl-only seats in the stadium’s eastern end zone.  No View  Two seats away, Chris Piwinsky, 32, said he wasn’t happy he
couldn’t see the world’s largest video board, which hangs from
the middle of the stadium. He said he paid $2,400 for his seat,
which is in the 200 level, online.  “So, I’ve been walking around the stadium for about 20
minutes taking pictures of the scoreboard,” said Piwinsky, a
systems analyst from Bloomington,  Illinois .  Two video boards, measuring 160 feet long and 72 feet high,
hang about 100 feet above the field. A pair of smaller boards,
53 feet long and 30 feet high, are also attached and face the
end zones.  The league said it relocated 850 ticket holders who weren’t
able to sit in their assigned seats. The NFL said it used
tickets it witholds for emergencies and others the Cowboys and
the league didn’t use.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Lee in Arlington,  Texas , at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net 
David Wethe in Arlington, Texas, at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  