-- Suzlon Says Orders `Absolutely Sufficient' to Repay $2.2 Billion in Loans
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2011-02-07T15:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/suzlon-energy-says-rising-orders-absolutely-sufficient-to-pay-loans.html
  Suzlon Energy Ltd ., the world’s
third-biggest maker of  wind turbines , said it’s booking orders
fast enough to resume making payments on 100 billion rupees
($2.2 billion) in borrowings next year.  The Indian manufacturer, the second-most indebted clean-
energy company through syndicated loans, reported on Feb. 4 that
cumulative orders rose 35 percent from October to a record $7.3
billion, equal to about 5,000 megawatts of power capacity.  “It’s absolutely sufficient” to let the company meet its
obligations to banks, Chief Financial Officer Robin Banerjee
said in a telephone interview. “Every bit of our strategy now
seems to be working.”  Suzlon, under pressure to ramp up sales before a 2-year
grace period on principal repayments ends in April 2012, rose as
much as 4.6 percent in Mumbai trading even after the company
reported its fourth straight quarterly loss. The 2.54 billion-
rupee loss was about twice the average analyst forecast.  “This should be the turnaround year for Suzlon,” said
Harish Subramanian, a Mumbai-based analyst at Tower Capital &
Securities Pvt. with a “buy on weakness” rating on the stock.  Ahmedabad-based Suzlon last April had to refinance 100
billion rupees in loans taken from banks including Citibank
Inc., Deutsche Bank AG,  Barclays Plc  and  ICICI Bank Ltd . after
the global recession dried up orders for wind farms and squeezed
margins for turbine sales.  Share Loss  Suzlon’s shares have lost about 32 percent in the last 12
months. The Bloomberg Wind Energy Index rose about 1.6 percent
in the period. The index tracks 64 wind power generators and
suppliers globally, including Vestas Wind Systems A/S, Siemens
AG, and Alstom SA.  Suzlon carries $2.3 billion in syndicated loans, the most
among global renewable-energy companies except for Suntech Power
Holdings Co., which has $7.8 billion in such loans, according to
Bloomberg data.  Loan repayments in the first two years will only amount to
about 5 percent of the money owned, or 5 million rupees,
Banerjee said. The repayment period stretches over eight years,
with subsequent payments increasing, he said.  Suzlon is paying about 9 billion rupees yearly in interest,
Banerjee said. The average interest rate on its loans is about 8
percent, he said.  Net debt has fallen 11 percent since the third quarter last
year to 93.75 billion rupees, he said.  Weaker-Euro Effect  Suzlon shares closed at 49.6 rupees, up 3.2 percent, the
biggest increase since Jan. 12. The benchmark Sensitive Index
rose 0.2 percent and the Bloomberg wind-energy index climbed 0.5
percent.  Banerjee attributed 1.72 billion rupees of Suzlon’s third-
quarter loss of 2.54 billion rupees to a weaker euro that
devalued overseas assets.  “If you add that back, the loss is very marginal,”
Banerjee said. “We’re almost there to the black number that
we’re looking for.” He declined to forecast whether Suzlon
could return to profit by next quarter.  While Suzlon is seeing “significant improvement” in
orders in India, sales in terms of megawatt capacity for the
fiscal year ending March 31 are still expected to be 36 percent
below their all-time high of 2,790 megawatts in 2009, according
to a presentation on Jan. 13 by Abhineet Anand, a Mumbai-based
analyst for Antique Stock Broking Ltd.  Suzlon owns stakes in Belgium-based gearbox maker  Hansen
Transmissions International NV  and  Repower Systems AG , a German
wind-turbine maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 