-- U.K. Says It May Cut Prices Paid for Renewable Power
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2011-02-07T16:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/u-k-signals-it-may-cut-prices-paid-for-renewable-energy-sources.html
The U.K. government signaled today it
may cut the prices paid for electricity from renewable sources,
saying it began a “comprehensive review” of feed-in tariffs
introduced last year.  Evidence that larger-scale solar farms may “soak up”
money meant for roof-top panels, small  wind turbines  and smaller
hydropower facilities prompted the study, the Department of
Energy and Climate Change said in a  statement . The move will
allow officials to change above-market fees paid for renewable
power by more than what was already planned in April 2012.  The department said it will speed up an analysis of solar
projects bigger than 50 kilowatts, with new tariffs mandated
“as soon as practical.” That threshold, which includes panels
on buildings, is a “huge step back” for the industry, which
expected only installations in fields to be reviewed early, said
Jeremy Leggett, chairman of Solarcentury Holdings Ltd.  “This sets back the U.K. industry, and I wouldn’t be
surprised if this was the last straw for some investors,”
Leggett said in a telephone interview today after having lunch
with Greg Barker, the minister in charge of the program. That
meeting hadn’t put his mind at ease, he said.  Leggett’s views were backed up by Osaka-based Sharp Corp.’s
U.K. solar chief Andrew Lee, who said the move will “cripple”
the industry. Dave Sowden, chief executive officer of the
Micrpower Council trade group, said it would put “jitters”
into the market.  Crippling the Industry  Solar projects planned for schools, hospitals and local
communities are all endangered by the fast-track review for
projects over 50 kilowatts, the  Renewable Energy Association ,
said in an e-mailed statement. The lobby group, which had
estimated the feed-in tariffs could create 17,000 new jobs in
the solar industry, said today’s announcement “undermines” the
prospect for employment growth.  “The drop in the definition of large-scale being 50
kilowatts would cripple the industry overnight,” Lee said in a
telephone interview. “A community housing project is over 50
kilowatts. The average house is 4 kilowatts. More than 12 houses
and you’re there.”  Jenny Chase, head of solar analysis at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, said she expects the government to “dramatically
reduce” or eliminate incentives for solar panel projects of
more than 50 kilowatts.  “The sudden cut is hard on developers and international
equipment suppliers who have already invested in the U.K. large-
scale project market, but so far their costs have been
relatively minor,” Chase said in an e-mail.  Market Jitters  The energy department said it aims to complete the
comprehensive review this year, with price changes coming in
April 2012 “unless the review reveals a need for greater
urgency.”  Dave Sowden, chief executive officer of the Solihull,
England-based trade group said he would have preferred a period
of six months between the end of the study and the introduction
of price changes. He also attended the lunch with Barker.  “This is going to put the jitters into some market
segments,” Sowden said today in a phone interview. “It’s the
fast-track threshold of 50 kilowatts that is of concern, because
that’s going to catch a lot of rooftop installations. That’s
come as a surprise. Nothing in reading the tea leaves of
parliamentary language flagged concern in that area.”  Record Installations  Sowden’s view was backed up by Leggett, who said “never
once through this exercise were we give to understand that solar
on buildings was to be at risk by early review.”  London-based Solarcentury sells solar panels and designs
and installs solar electricity systems.  The government said on Oct. 20 that an early review of the
system was possible, though at that time it spared the feed-in-
tariffs from changes brought in with budget cuts across all
government departments.  The larger-scale solar study and another probe into farm-
based anaerobic digestion plants, will be fast-tracked, the
department said, without saying when announcements will be made
on those. No retroactive tariff changes will be made, it said.  U.K. installations of solar panels last year were a record
33 megawatts, doubling the previous installed total, after the
feed-in tariffs were introduced in April guaranteeing as much as
12 times the market rate for power from renewable sources.  ‘Gold Rush’  In the wake of the program, Osaka-based Sharp Corp.
announced a doubling of production of panels at its plant in
Wrexham, Wales.  Companies from the German utility  E.ON AG  to  Tesco Plc 
entered the market, offering to sell and install panels for
their customers. The county of Cornwall in southwest England
said it anticipated a “gold rush” that could lead to 1 billion
pounds ($1.6 billion) of investment in  England ’s poorest region.  “Large-scale solar installations weren’t anticipated under
the FITs scheme we inherited,” U.K. Secretary of State for
Energy and Climate Change  Chris Huhne  said in today’s statement.
“I’m concerned this could mean that money meant for people who
want to produce their own green electricity has the potential to
be directed towards large scale commercial solar projects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  