-- U.K. Natural Gas Falls as Norway Plants Return to Full Capacity
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   B e n   F a r e y
-- 2011-02-07T16:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/u-k-natural-gas-falls-as-norway-export-plants-return-to-full-capacity.html
U.K. natural gas fell as  Norway ’s two
biggest processing plants resumed operations after halts and
Britain’s nuclear electricity supplies increased, damping demand
for gas in power generation.  Gassco AS, Norway’s pipeline operator, said its Kollsnes
and Kaarstoe plants returned to normal capacity during the
weekend after a loss in power supply last week that reduced
production, according to a  statement  on its website. A  power
outage  also cut flows from Kollsnes today.  “We are ramping up again,” Lisbet Kallevik, a Gassco
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Norway is the biggest foreign gas supplier to the U.K. and
the second-biggest exporter to  Europe  after  Russia . Kollsnes has
a daily export capacity of 143 million cubic meters and Kaarstoe
88 million.  Natural gas for same-day delivery fell 0.75 pence, or 1.4
percent, to 55 pence a therm at 4:30 p.m. in  London , according
to broker prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s equal to $8.87 a
million British thermal units. The day-ahead contract traded at
54.65 pence.  National Grid Plc forecast gas demand at 325 million cubic
meters in the 24 hours through 6 a.m. tomorrow, about 35 million
below normal for the time of year. The nation’s pipelines will
hold 343 million cubic meters of gas at that time, about 7
million less than at the start of today.  U.K.  Belgium  Pipeline  Interconnector (U.K.) Ltd., owner of a reversible pipeline
between Britain and Belgium, switched flow direction to U.K.
exports on Feb. 4, according to information on its  website .  Gas for delivery next month declined 0.5 pence to 54.2
pence a therm.  Electricity supplies from Britain’s nuclear plants rose as
Electricite de France SA started four atomic units. Both units
at EDF’s 1,200-megawatt Sizewell nuclear plant in southern
England and its Hartlepool-1 and Heysham 1-2 facilities in
northern  England  were switched on in the last two days,
according to National Grid data.  Britain’s electricity comes from a mixture of coal, natural
gas, nuclear and wind. Reactors often operate around the clock
and so when switched on they can reduce the need for fossil-fuel
generation. Britain can get about half of its power from natural
gas and so the fuel’s cost influences electricity markets.  U.K. baseload power for the next working day rose about 20
pence to 46.20 pounds a megawatt-hour. Power for next month lost
55 pence, or 1.2 percent, to 47.15 pounds. Baseload is delivered
around the clock. Bloomberg compiles prices from brokers
including ICAP Plc, GFI Group Inc. and Spectron Group Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  