-- U.K. Economy Can't Rely on Pound Weakness to Boost Exports, Item Club Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-02-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/u-k-economy-can-t-rely-on-pound-weakness-to-boost-exports-item-club-says.html
The U.K. can’t rely on a weaker pound
to boost exports and needs to invest more and increase
competitiveness to gain more market share in emerging economies,
Ernst & Young LLP’s Item Club said.  The value of British goods and services sold overseas will
rise 8.5 percent a year in the decade through 2020, compared
with an annual decline of 1.8 percent in the three years through
2010, the research group, which uses the same forecasting model
as the U.K. Treasury, said in a report released today in  London .  “However, this forecast is not without its risks, the main
one being the potential for unfavourable exchange-rate
movements,” it said. Longer-term policy “should be focused on
supporting competitiveness.”  Britain’s share of global exports has fallen since World
War II due to a lack of penetration into developing markets and
the impact of a “persistently overvalued pound,” the Item Club
said. Still, sterling has dropped about 22 percent since 2007
against a trade-weighted basket of currencies, which  Bank of
England  and government officials say they hope will boost
exports as budget cuts damp domestic demand.  As the outlook for most advanced countries is “subdued,”
the U.K. will need to continue to re-orient exports toward
developing markets such as  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China  if it
is to achieve strong export growth, the Item Club said.  Goods Exports  U.K. goods exports will probably increase 8.7 percent a
year through 2020, compared with a 3 percent annual gain in the
three years through 2010, the group said. Services exports will
gain 8.4 percent a year, rebounding from an annual decline of
7.4 percent in the last three years.  Emerging markets have been leading the world out of the
recession triggered by the banking crisis in developed nations,
with China probably replacing Japan as the world’s second-
largest economy last year.  Britain’s economic prospects may be hampered by the
sovereign debt crisis in the euro region, its biggest export
market. Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said on Nov. 25
that “a healthy European recovery is important to the ability
of the U.K. economy to rebalance.”  The  Confederation of British Industry  said in a separate
report today that export confidence among small and mid-sized
U.K. companies climbed in the three months through January. A
gauge of optimism about the prospect for exports in the next
year rose to 11 from 7 in October, the U.K.’s biggest business
lobby group said, citing a survey.  The CBI, which questioned 366 businesses between Dec. 9 and
Jan. 6 for the survey, defines small and mid-sized companies as
those with 499 or fewer employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  