-- Consumer Credit in U.S. Increases for Third Month
-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2011-02-07T21:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/u-s-consumer-credit-climbs-by-more-than-forecast-6-1-billion-on-card-use.html
U.S. consumer borrowing rose in
December for a third consecutive month, led by the first
increase in credit-card charges in more than two years as
holiday sales improved.  Credit rose by $6.1 billion to $2.41 trillion after
increasing a revised $2.02 billion in November, according to
Federal Reserve data issued today in Washington. Economists
projected a $2.4 billion increase, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Borrowing remains below the
peak of $2.58 trillion in July 2008. For all of 2010, credit 
contracted.  A thawing of credit makes it more likely that  consumer
spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy,
will keep increasing after climbing last quarter at the fastest
pace in four years.  Gap Inc . and  General Motors Co . are among
companies that beat sales estimates at the start of this year as
customers took advantage of post-holiday discounts.  “People are starting to get out, little by little, and
spend,” said Yelena Shulyatyeva, an economist at BNP Paribas in
New York. “This is in line with consumer spending, and the
overall economy, picking up.”  For all of 2010, credit decreased 1.6 percent after falling
4.4 percent in 2009, which was the biggest decline since records
began in 1942. Borrowing decreased in only two previous years,
1991 and 1943.  Shares Climb  Stocks rose, bolstered by takeover announcements. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.6 percent to 1,319.05 at
the 4 p.m. close in  New York .  Estimates for the December change in credit ranged from a
drop of $1 billion to a $9.6 billion gain, according to the
Bloomberg survey of 34 economists.  Borrowing is beginning to recover since reaching an almost
four-year low of $2.39 trillion in September.  Revolving debt, which includes credit cards, rose $2.32
billion in December, the first gain since August 2008, according
to the Fed’s data. Non-revolving debt, including loans for cars
and mobile homes, rose $3.78 billion for the month, the fifth
consecutive increase. The Fed’s report doesn’t track debt
secured by real estate, such as home equity lines of credit.  Credit availability following the recession is improving
faster for companies than for households, the Fed’s quarterly
survey of senior loan officers released Jan. 31 showed. Banks
continued to ease standards and terms for commercial and
industrial loans during the fourth quarter, while making just
“small and mixed” changes to the terms for consumer loans,
according to the report.  Fewer Delinquencies  Most banks expected loan delinquencies and charge-off rates
to improve this year in every major category, the report also
showed. The Fed survey showed the outlook for business loans
improving the most, with 80 percent of banks expecting
improvement for large and medium businesses and 70 percent
expecting gains for small businesses. Banks reported increased
demand for business loans on net for the first time since 2006.  Banks also expect better quality consumer loans in 2011,
with 57 percent predicting an improvement in credit card loans.
For other types of consumer loans, 47 banks expect improvement.    MasterCard Inc ., the world’s second-biggest bank-card
network, reported on Feb. 3 that fourth-quarter profit increased
41 percent on the surge consumer spending as well as a global
migration to electronic payments.  “Based on the spending trends we’ve seen and the improving
consumer confidence, I’m cautiously optimistic that we’ll see
continued improvements in 2011,” MasterCard’s chief executive
officer, Ajay Banga, said in a conference call with analysts.  Sales Climbing  Comparable-store sales at the more than 30 chains tracked
by Retail Metrics Inc. rose 4.4 percent in January from a year
earlier, surpassing the predicted 2.6 percent increase. David
Bassuk, head of the global retail practice at consultant
AlixPartners in New York, was among analysts saying retailers
last month used promotions and clearance items to draw shoppers.  Gap, based in  San Francisco , said same-store sales rose 1
percent, compared with the 3 percent drop projected from
analysts’ estimates compiled by Retail Metrics.  In the  auto industry , sales of light vehicles have climbed
for five consecutive months, reaching a 12.54 million annual
pace in January, the highest since August 2009 when the
government’s cash-for-clunkers plan boosted demand.  GM sales in the month rose 22 percent from the same time
last year, topping four analysts’ average estimate for a 9.2
percent increase. The Detroit-based automaker’s discounts and
sales incentives last month rose 28 percent from a year earlier
to an average of $3,762 per vehicle as the company sought new
buyers, according to Edmunds.com.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  