-- U.S. to Recognize Southern Sudan as Independent State in July, Obama Says
-- B y   I n d i r a   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   J o e   S o b c z y k
-- 2011-02-07T20:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/u-s-to-recognize-southern-sudan-as-independent-state-in-july-obama-says.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
intends to recognize  Southern Sudan  as an independent state in
July.  “After decades of conflict, the images of millions of
southern Sudanese voters deciding their own future was an
inspiration to the world and another step forward in Africa’s
long journey toward justice and democracy,” Obama said in a
statement released by the administration.  In a separate statement earlier today, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  held out the possibility of removing  Sudan  from
the list of state sponsors of terrorism.  Upon its independence in July, the south will assume
control of almost three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil
production of 490,000 barrels a day, the third-biggest in sub-
Saharan  Africa .  Obama said the U.S. will work with the governments of Sudan
and  Southern Sudan  to ensure a peaceful transition.  “All parties have a responsibility to ensure that this
historic moment of promise becomes a moment of lasting
progress,” Obama said. “At the same time, there must be an end
to attacks on civilians in Darfur and a definitive end to that
conflict.”  Reviewing Terror Designation  Clinton said the administration is “initiating the
process” of removing Sudan from the list. In “recognition of
the success” of the referendum, Clinton said the U.S. is
beginning a review that may lead to removal of Sudan from the
group of nations subject to sanctions as sponsors of terrorism.  Obama said “there is a path to greater prosperity and
normal relations with the  United States , including examining
Sudan’s designation” as a terrorism sponsor.  Clinton congratulated leaders in northern and southern
Sudan for a “peaceful and orderly vote” on independence for
the south.  Leaders in Southern Sudan “must launch a process of
inclusive governance and take steps to improve good governance
and service delivery,” Clinton said.  Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat who leads the
Foreign Relations Committee, issued a statement praising Sudan’s
government for recognizing the results of the independence
referendum and said the U.S. should begin a review toward
removing Sudan from the terrorism-sponsors list.  The referendum was the centerpiece of a 2005  peace accord 
that ended a civil war which lasted almost 50 years, except for
a cease-fire from 1972 to 1983, between the Muslim north and the
south, where Christianity and traditional religions dominate.
About 2 million people died in the second phase of the conflict.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Sobczyk in Washington at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 