-- Uganda Receives `Credible Information' on Terror Attacks Before Election
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2011-02-07T09:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/uganda-receives-credible-information-on-terror-attacks-before-election.html
Ugandan police received “credible
information” that “terrorists” are preparing to carry out
attacks before national elections this month, said Major General
Kale Kayihura, the Inspector General of  Police .  Kayihura didn’t specify which group may be planning attacks
in an e-mailed statement on Feb. 5.  Uganda  was hit by twin
bombings claimed by the Somali Islamic group al-Shabaab in the
capital, Kampala, on July 11 that left 76 people dead and
injured dozens of others as they were watching a televised
broadcast of the soccer  World Cup .  The attack marked the start of a campaign of retaliation
against Uganda and Burundi, which have contributed troops to the
African Union peacekeeping force in Somalia, known as Amisom,
al-Shabaab leader Sheikh Mukhtar Abdirahman Abu-Zubeyr said on
July 14. Uganda has promised to send Amisom more reinforcements.  “I call upon members of the public not to panic because
that is what the terrorists want,” Kayihura said. “I am very
confident that we shall defeat the evil plans of the
terrorists.”  Al-Shabaab, which has pledged loyalty to al-Qaeda, has been
trying to oust Somalia’s Western-backed government since 2007.
The militia, along with the rebel Hisb-ul-Islam group, controls
most of southern and central Horn of African nation, while the
government holds only parts of Mogadishu, the capital.  President Yoweri Museveni is seeking to win a fourth term
in the Feb. 18 election. His main challenger is expected to be
former ally Kizza Besigye.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 