-- Mulally Gives Ford Lightness Lead After Threat to End Explorer
-- B y   J o h n   L i p p e r t   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2011-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/mulally-makes-ford-leader-in-lightness-after-threat-to-terminate-explorer.html
Six months after arriving at  Ford
Motor Co . from  Boeing Co . in 2006,  Alan Mulally  had to decide
the fate of the  Explorer , once America’s top-selling sport
utility vehicle.  Ford had just posted a $12.6 billion annual loss, and
investors were clamoring for the new chief executive officer to
replace such guzzlers as the Explorer with the gas-sipping
models that buyers wanted.  Mulally had to think fast after Ford staked the company
name as collateral on $23 billion in bank loans. At Boeing, he’d
bet that lightweight parts would help the 787 Dreamliner burn 20
percent less fuel than rival airliners. He gave Ford engineers
an ultimatum: Put the Explorer on a diet, or it’s dead,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its March issue.  “Alan told us we need to truly reinvent the Explorer,”  Derrick Kuzak , Ford’s product development chief, says in the
company’s domed-shaped showroom in its Dearborn, Michigan,
design studio.  When Kuzak, 59, went back in early 2009 to request  $400
million  to start producing the Explorer that his team had spent
two years overhauling, he didn’t begin his pitch with profits or
costs. Instead, he told Mulally he’d found ways to cut almost
100 pounds (45 kilograms) from the 4,450-pound  behemoth , get 24
percent better gas mileage, add length and width and maintain
off-road performance.  ‘Absolutely Critical’  Mulally, sitting with 15 executives in the Thunderbird Room
at Ford’s Dearborn headquarters, was so impressed that he gave
Kuzak the cash to start building in a renovated  Chicago  assembly
plant.  “Weight is absolutely critical,” Mulally, 65, says in his
12th-floor office overlooking a  factory  where Henry Ford built
the Model T.  As automakers claw back from the biggest financial crisis
since the Great Depression, Mulally is betting that trimming
pounds from Ford’s lineup is the route to passing rivals. He’s
making lightweight vehicles the foundation of Ford’s plan to
meet rising fuel and safety mandates without scrapping the
pickups and SUVs that generate most of the company’s profits.  A middling player in lightweight design a decade ago, Ford
is now a leader, says Eric Showalter, CEO of Strathroy, Ontario-
based  Meridian Lightweight Technologies Inc. , which supplies
magnesium parts to automakers worldwide.  ‘League With BMW’  “They’re in a league with BMW,” says Showalter, referring
to Munich-based  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , which for 2013
plans a battery-powered car built from aluminum and carbon fiber
to save weight. “The Japanese, with the exception of Honda, are
not being nearly as aggressive,” he says.  Ford already has emerged from the recession as the world’s
most-profitable carmaker. The company earned $6.37 billion in
the first nine months of 2010, the most since the Explorer’s
1998 heyday. Fourth-quarter profit fell 79 percent to $190
million, or 5 cents a share, as Ford’s European unit had an
unexpected loss and the introductions of the Explorer and other
new models drove up costs. Explorer sales jumped 73 percent in
January as the SUV became the fastest moving model on the
showroom floor, according to Ken Czubay, Ford’s U.S. sales
chief.  For the year, Ford posted net income of $6.56 billion, the
highest since 1999. Ford shares rose 42 percent in 12 months to
$15.72 on Feb 4.  ‘Good Investment’  “If they can make fuel-efficiency one of the top
attributes of a Ford, they’ll suck people into their
showrooms,” says Gary Bradshaw, a  fund manager  at Dallas-based
Hodges Capital Management, which owned 100,000 Ford common
shares and 100,000 preferred shares as of mid-January. “Ford
will continue to be a good investment.”  Regulators worldwide are demanding mileage and safety
improvements. The administration of President  Barack Obama  is
requiring carmakers to boost the fuel economy of their fleets 42
percent to an average of 35.5 miles (57 kilometers) per gallon
(3.8 liters) by 2016. Officials are considering a 62-mpg target
for 2025.  U.S. rules this year  mandate  that roofs on new models
become twice as strong as those on previous ones to prevent
deaths in rollover accidents. In  China , the government wants to
reduce fuel consumption to 6.6 liters for every 100 kilometers
driven in three to five years from an average of 8.13 liters,
says analyst Tianshu Xin at IHS Global Insight in  Shanghai .  ‘Moving to Forefront’  Light cars don’t have to be less safe, Kuzak says. They can
be designed so that the impact of a crash travels around
passengers rather than through them. The new Explorer has air
bags in its rear seat belts, and the SUV cuts power when it
enters a curve too fast.  Even gas-electric hybrids and fuel-cell models benefit from
lighter bodies that put less strain on batteries and motors,
Kuzak says. A decade ago, Ford executives didn’t even discuss
weight when they approved vehicles, he says. Ford predicts that
hybrids and electrics will account for as much as 25 percent of
sales by 2020.  “The very nature of how cars are built and used is being
challenged worldwide,” says John Casesa, senior managing
director of New York-based Guggenheim Securities, the investment
banking and capital markets arm of  Guggenheim Partners LLC .
“Making lighter cars has become essential, and Ford is moving
to the forefront. With products like the Explorer, customers are
beginning to see the result.”  Improving Quality  Ford introduced its new Explorer in December as global
vehicle sales reached 72.1 million for 2010, after plunging to
63.9 million the year before, according to  J.D. Power  &
Associates.  In 2009, industry sales in the U.S. dropped 21 percent to
10.4 million, the lowest number since 1982. The predecessors of  General Motors Co . and Chrysler Group LLC skidded into and out
of bankruptcy in 2009.  Mulally laid the groundwork for Ford’s recovery -- and its
stock rebound -- by sparing engineers from the brunt of his
firings when he cut jobs by 42 percent to 164,000 at the end of
2010 from the end of 2006.  The move paid off: Ford’s quality ranked best among
mainstream brands last year, with 93 customer complaints per 100
vehicles during the first three months of ownership compared
with 117 for  Toyota Motor Corp .’s Toyota brand, according to
J.D. Power. Ford revealed plans for three new electric or hybrid
vehicles on Jan. 10 and said it will hire 750 engineers this
year.  “Ford’s improving quality, and the relatively high rate at
which it’s introducing fresh products in the showroom, is
translating into better market share,” says Jonathan Chou, an
analyst at Baltimore-based T. Rowe Price Group Inc., which held
9.9 million Ford shares as of Sept. 30.  Lightening Up  To keep rolling, Mulally is requiring new models introduced
from 2012 to 2020 to weigh 250 to 750 pounds less than their
predecessors. If they can’t achieve best-in-class fuel economy,
he won’t approve them.  “Every engineer needs to think about weight as one of the
most fundamental elements,” Kuzak says.  Ford faces tough competition in lightweight design. Honda
Motor Co. trimmed 104 pounds from its 2011  Odyssey  minivan
compared with the previous model.  “To improve fuel-efficiency and reduce  greenhouse gases ,
one of the most important and cost-effective ways is reducing
weight,” says Ed Cohen, Honda’s vice president for U.S.
government affairs.  Weight Dilemma    Hyundai Motor Co . cut 220 pounds from the 2010  Sonata ’s
metal body after dropping the V-6 engine and adding turbocharged
and gas-electric hybrid versions of its four-cylinder model.
Even Lamborghini SpA introduced a 570-horsepower  concept  car in
September that’s 750 pounds trimmer than its current Gallardo
supercar.  Not everyone is convinced that lightweight designs are the
future. Mulally’s weight trimming turned into a nightmare at
Boeing. The Dreamliner is more than three years late because
Boeing had to reinforce the fuselage to prevent layers of
composite plastic from separating.    Eric Noble , head of consulting firm The Car Lab in Orange,  California , says customers don’t care about weight when a gallon
of U.S. gasoline costs about 25 percent less than it did at its
2008 peak of $4.11. New crash-safety requirements are so
demanding that they’ll force regulators to delay fuel-economy
improvements, Noble predicts.  “It will take more or much more expensive materials to
meet safety requirements,” he says. “Vehicles will tend to get
even heavier, since there’s so much competition, raising prices
isn’t an option.”  ‘How Small Can You Go’  Automakers are torn between shedding weight to boost fuel
economy and adding pounds to meet safety standards, says Bill Surber, executive director of product development at  Magna
International Inc ., a Ford parts supplier in Aurora, Ontario.  “It’s a question of how small can you go and still make it
safe enough,” he says. A smaller SUV or truck would mean
smaller profits at Ford, where pickups account for a third of
U.S. sales and produced about half of earnings last year.  Kuzak chose Jim Holland as the Explorer’s chief engineer in
a bid to prove naysayers wrong and save one of the auto
industry’s most famous nameplates. Holland says his team had a
big motivation to succeed: They saw thousands of colleagues lose
jobs during the recession.  ‘It Changed Us’  “You never, ever forget that,” Holland, 50, says in an
office surrounded by empty cubicles. “You’ll never see that
sense of complacency here again. It changed us. It changed me.”  To rescue the Explorer, Holland abandoned the truck-style
frame and adapted underbody components from the Taurus sedan.
That helped boost the fuel economy of the V-6 model to 17 mpg in
city driving from 14 mpg and to 25 mpg on the highway from 20
mpg, the best among all similar vehicles.  Holland says a four-cylinder version coming in June will do
even better. The turbocharged engine generates 237 horsepower,
13 percent more than the V-6 it replaces, while enabling the
seven-passenger Explorer to get the same mileage as a five-
passenger Toyota Camry with a V-6 engine, Holland says.  Kuzak says taking out weight forced him to change his
team’s mind-set. In the past, each engineer was responsible for
making his or her part as robust as physics allowed. Even after
Kuzak’s diet, the 4,355-pound Explorer still weighs 13 percent
more than it did in 1991. Without Ford’s weight crusade, meeting
safety regulations and adding the room inside that customers
wanted would have added an additional 411 pounds, Holland says.  ‘That’s Too Heavy’  To show how things have changed, Holland takes out a color-
coded diagram and points to the wishbone-shaped control arms
that attach the front wheels to the underbody. The arms have to
be strong enough to absorb vibration because every pothole
telegraphs road shocks through them to the steering wheel.  Engineers started with a 15-pound design adapted from the
Taurus. Then they compared the arm with the ones in competitors’
models. Engineers made similar charts for about 2,000 Explorer
parts, down to the nuts and bolts. The control-arm chart showed
that Ford’s part outweighed rivals’.  “Wait a minute, guys,” Holland told them. “That’s too
heavy.” He asked engineers to consider all of the parts that
connect the wheels to the body. “The light-bulb moment was when
we looked at this as a system,” he says.  Engineers carved holes in the arm and made an adjacent
part, called the knuckle, out of lightweight aluminum, something
they’d never done. With the arm and knuckle sharing more weight-
bearing responsibility, the arm could handle a 15 percent bigger
load while weighing 2 pounds less, Holland says.  New Materials  With another diagram, in blue, yellow and red, Holland
shows the smorgasbord of materials he’s using. He saved 17
pounds by making the Explorer’s hood with aluminum instead of
steel and 10 pounds by crafting third-row-seat frames from
magnesium. He cut 23 pounds by building the radiator frame from
one piece of composite plastic instead of 11 chunks of steel.  Holland had to select from steel that came in different
varieties, depending on which elements -- manganese, nickel or
chromium -- suppliers mixed in.  For the front bumper, he chose steel laced with boron,
which changes steel’s atomic structure so that a piece 15
percent thinner can be as much as four times stronger. Holland
used so-called high-strength steel for 60 percent of the
Explorer body. The industry average is 15 percent, says Jeff Makarewicz, Toyota’s vice president of materials engineering in  North America .  “We’d like to understand more about how Ford is doing
this,” he says.  South Side Supplier  Makarewicz says he’s impressed because high-strength steel
means Ford and its suppliers must develop new manufacturing
techniques.  On Chicago’s South Side,  Tower International Inc . makes
steel parts valued at more than $500 per Explorer. The steel all
looks gray when workers load it into clamps for welding. For the
62 pieces that Tower assembles into an Explorer’s rear floor,
two-thirds of the weight comes from high-strength steel, says
Ken Kundrick, Tower’s vice president for technology.  Leaning over a walkway as sparks fly from welders below,
Kundrick says his biggest difficulty is what’s known as
springback: High-strength steel tries to return to its original
form, like a ball of paper that won’t stay crumpled. That means
the shape of Explorer parts has to be stamped into the high-
strength steel with one stroke of a 3,000-ton press, instead of
two or three strokes for traditional steel.  Stamping Plant  At a Ford stamping plant in the industrial suburb of
Chicago Heights, Scott Smith is struggling to make the
Explorer’s aluminum hood match up with the steel fender.  Since an aluminum sheet can crack when squeezed by the jaws
of the press that stamps its shape, the corners of the hood need
to be curved in an arc 2 millimeters wider than the tip of the
fender. Smith says he’s trying to make corners pointier for
aluminum and curvier for steel to eliminate the difference.  “Weight decisions drive our craftsmanship,” he says.  Ford pays about 30 cents a pound for traditional steel, 70
cents for high-strength steel and $1.40 for aluminum, says Matt Zaluzec, the company’s director of global materials and
manufacturing research. Carbon fiber costs $15 a pound -- too
much for a model on which Ford hopes to more than triple sales
from last year’s 60,687. Explorer sales peaked in 2000 at
445,157. The new model starts at $28,190 -- about $1,000 less
than last year’s price.  Cost Pressures  These cost pressures allowed traditional steel to compete
with exotic materials.  To toughen beams that run beneath the Explorer’s doors,
Holland at first wanted to fill them with composite plastic.
Known as sills, the tube-shaped beams protect passengers during
side crashes. Filling the beams with plastic would save 10
pounds per vehicle compared with welding steel bulkheads inside.
The downside: Holland would have to spend $1.5 million for
equipment to make the filler and $10 more per vehicle for the
plastic.  He told engineers to work simultaneously on steel bulkheads
and plastic. After 90 days, they surprised him with their
discovery during a design meeting held in a studio behind three
sets of locked doors to prevent Ford secrets from leaking out.  By using computers to simulate crashes, they’d pinpointed
the exact spots where sills needed the most reinforcement. Steel
bulkheads weighing 4 pounds more than plastic filler would fit
the bill. Holland stuck with traditional steel even though it
was heavier.  ‘Happy as Hell’  “I was happy as hell because I didn’t have to pay for
plastic,” he says. “Now, I could afford something customers
would see.”  As he wrapped up his pound-busting design, Holland wanted
to compare the Explorer with similarly sized vehicles. He
divided the SUV’s weight by the square inches of the shadow it
cast on the ground. He declines to discuss Ford’s performance in
what it calls weight efficiency. The Car Lab compiled similar
data for Bloomberg Markets that showed the new Explorer weighs
0.28 pounds per square inch.  Explorer now lags the Toyota Highlander by 0.7 percent
compared with 11.4 percent for the previous model. The new
Explorer beats Honda’s Pilot by 2.9 percent, Chevrolet’s
Traverse by 6.4 percent and Jeep’s Grand Cherokee by 10.4
percent, The Car Lab says.  ‘Take Baby Steps’  By 2030, Ford may cut the Explorer’s weight by 40 percent
or 1,900 pounds, Zaluzec says. That would require iron-based
metals for about 23 percent of a vehicle’s heft, down from 66
percent today. More aluminum, magnesium, composite plastics and
cheaper carbon fiber would be used.  Though the total size of vehicles may shrink, passenger
compartments would remain as big, safe and comfortable, Kuzak
says.  Holland says he’d hoped to trim more fat than the 95 pounds
he took out of the Explorer but is satisfied overall.  “If you wait and say you’re going to invent an all-new
vehicle that’s much lighter, you’re going to fail,” he says.
“You have to take baby steps now, so you’re building up this
knowledge on designs you know.”  In November, Ford promoted Holland to lead product
development in China. He offers a simple summation for what
weight saving allows him to do.  “Keep my job,” he says with a smile.  For Ford, lightweight designs may help preserve the
company’s lineup -- including big pickups and SUVs in all
regions of the world. That’s a significant turnaround from four
years ago, when falling shares, fleeing consumers and $23
billion in loans meant pessimism about Ford’s future hung heavy.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Lippert at   jlippert@bloomberg.net 
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net  or Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  