-- Munger Promises `Afternoon With Charlie' After Berkshire's Buyout of Wesco
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2011-02-07T15:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/munger-promises-afternoon-with-charlie-after-berkshire-s-buyout-of-wesco.html
Charles Munger, the billionaire
business partner of  Warren Buffett , promised to host a question-
and-answer meeting for shareholders of his  Wesco Financial Corp .
if they approve a sale of the company to  Berkshire Hathaway Inc .  Munger, 87, plans to hold an “Afternoon with Charlie” in  Pasadena , California, after the merger to give Berkshire and
former Wesco shareholders a chance to ask him about “business,
economics and life,” Wesco said in a statement today announcing
the deal. Berkshire agreed to pay $547.6 million for the 19.9
percent of Wesco it doesn’t own. The session would replace
Wesco’s annual meeting.  Munger, Wesco’s chief executive officer and Berkshire’s
vice chairman, won a cult following among investors for his
economic insights and a direct manner of delivering his views.
His speeches and remarks are collected in  “Poor Charlie’s
Almanack,”  now in its  third edition , and his annual meetings of
Wesco shareholders have drawn thousands of investors.  “It’s really a terrific experience to hear his views on
life and the world and economics, and I’m thrilled that he’s
going to do it again this year,” said Glenn Tongue, a partner
at T2 Partners LLC who, as a Berkshire and Wesco shareholder,
plans to vote for the deal. “It wouldn’t shock me if this were
the new format for access to Charlie.”  The Berkshire buyout would relieve Munger of the
responsibilities of managing a public company and give Buffett,
80, the freedom to run the unit without interference from
minority shareholders. Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and CEO, is
seeking to simplify the firm’s holdings as he prepares the
company for the next generation of leaders.  Cash, Stock  Berkshire must win the approval of a majority of Wesco’s
minority shareholders at a special investor meeting, according
to the statement. Shareholders can choose cash or Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire’s Class B common stock. The deal values
Wesco at about $386.55 per share, which is the company’s book
value as of Jan. 31, according to the statement.  Berkshire took  majority control  of Wesco in 1983. The stock
advanced more than 20-fold since the end of that year as Buffett
and Munger transformed Wesco from a  California  lender into a
unit that stores steel, rents furniture and sells insurance to
banks and airlines. Wesco rose $4.15, or 1.1 percent, to $384.82
at 9:51 a.m. on the New York Stock Exchange.  The “Afternoon with Charlie” will replace a 2011 Wesco
annual meeting and may be held on May 4 if the deal has been
completed by then, Wesco said. Munger appears on stage with
Buffett in front of tens of thousands of people each year at
Berkshire’s annual meeting in Omaha. Berkshire’s meeting is
scheduled for April 30.  ‘Best Interests’  Berkshire announced its Wesco bid on Aug. 26. Pasadena-
based Wesco named board members Carolyn Carlburg, Robert Flaherty and Elizabeth Caspers Peters to a “special committee
of independent directors” in September to review Buffett’s bid.  The committee “determined that the merger agreement and
the transactions contemplated thereby, including the merger, are
fair to and in the best interests of Wesco and its shareholders
other than Berkshire Hathaway and its affiliates,” the company
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  