-- Wall Street Knows Meltdown Was Just Bad Dream: Simon Johnson
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2011-02-07T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/wall-street-knows-meltdown-was-just-bad-dream-commentary-by-simon-johnson.html
  Robert Benmosche , chief executive
officer of America International Group Inc., made several
comments last week that were so stunningly ignorant that it’s
hard to believe he actually said them.  “All of the states where we’re a leader, where we’re the
No. 1 insurer, are red states. All of the states where we’re at
the bottom are blue states,” Benmosche said last week at a
conference in  Washington . “Part of what we found out is that
our model is about culture, and it’s about the attitude in the
public. And what we find is where there’s more of a tendency for
people to be more liberal, more that the government is
responsible for what happens to me.”  It’s even harder to believe that someone with such views is
not only the top officer at one of America’s largest financial
institutions, but one of the many that only exists at all
because the government bailed it out with billions and billions
of taxpayer dollars -- something Benmosche and too many of his
fellow CEOs in finance pretend never happened.  If AIG and Benmosche have really discovered that political
beliefs affect creditworthiness in a measurable way, this is a
major scientific breakthrough. Let’s hope AIG will either back
up his claims with hard data or Benmosche will retract his
statement. Whichever way you think this will break, either the
Democratic-controlled Senate Banking Committee or the
Republican-dominated House Financial Services Committee should
want to assess Benmosche’s judgment; he was effectively
appointed by the U.S. Treasury Department, after all.  AIG later denied that its United Guaranty mortgage
guarantee unit takes political affiliation into account in its
credit models.  Speaking Volumes  Even so, Benmosche’s words speak volumes about renewed
financial industry hubris, a denial of reality and a feeling of
invulnerability among executives whose poor judgment can destroy
the destiny of so many people.  Benmosche’s focus on a purported link between political
affiliations and the propensity to expect a bailout is, of
course, misplaced. The real place to look isn’t among
homeowners, most of whom have received very little help from
government, but rather within the financial sector itself.  Here the difference between the pro- and anti-bailout
crowds isn’t a matter of red versus blue. It’s more about size.
The proponents and recipients of bailouts include leading
bankers such as  Hank Paulson , a Republican and former head of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and U.S. Treasury secretary, and  Jamie Dimon , the CEO of JPMorgan Chase & Co., the country’s second
largest banking company, who leans Democrat. The people who tend
not to expect bailouts and oppose them run savings banks,  credit
unions  and the smaller  hedge funds .  Special Place  To be sure, a special place in the pantheon of bailout
legend will always be reserved for AIG, which received about
$180 billion in assistance. Benmosche joined the firm only in
2009, but his behavior and remarks are reminiscent of what led
us into great difficulty.  Benmosche not only insults the taxpayers who saved AIG
while holding their noses. It also runs parallel to comments
made by other leading proponents of increasing the scale of
undercapitalized global banking today, such as  Robert Diamond ,
the head of Barclays Plc, who has said banks must be allowed to
fail -- all the while advocating a business model that is the
very essence of disastrous too big to fail banking.  “By contrast, the global universal banking model, which
integrates retail, commercial and investment banking, is well
diversified by business and geography, well diversified by
clients and products,” he  said  at a conference in  London  last
October. “And it should carry less risk, by virtue of that
diversification, if it’s well run.”  They Can Fail  The trouble is, big banks can fail, and more than two years
after the financial meltdown there still is no cross-border
resolution mechanism for banks or insurance companies -- or
anyone else -- that would provide for an orderly winding-down of
their operations. Over the past two years, I’ve discussed this
specific point at length with Group of 20 deputies, top bankers,
international regulators, and European, Asian and U.S.
officials.  Firms such as AIG or Barclays could collapse in the same
fashion that Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt, and
cause chaos around the world. No sane government would want that
to happen, so at the moment of maximum distress -- and contrary
to all promises -- a bailout will be provided.  One logical step is to break up these big firms in a manner
that doesn’t inflict harm on the rest of the economy. This isn’t
a left-versus-right issue as Benmosche would have it; it is the
financial elite versus the rest of us.  Break Rationale  Even  Harvey Golub , until recently the chairman of AIG, has
called for that firm to be broken up, arguing there is no reason
to have the property-casualty business together with  life
insurance . A breakup, he said, might even help shareholders:
“When it gets broken apart, as I think ultimately it will, both
of those pieces may unlock much greater value.”  Golub was pushed out of AIG by Benmosche, who now runs the
show. All of this reminds me of the bizarre mixture of
ignorance, hubris and misjudgment displayed by Charles Prince
and  Robert Rubin , the chief executive officer and senior board
member respectively, at Citigroup Inc. during the run up to the
financial crisis. One kept dancing until long after the music
had stopped; the other said he had no idea there was any music
playing.  The Benmosche-Diamond view of the world will not lead us to
a good place.    Simon Johnson , co-author of “13 Bankers: The Wall Street
Takeover and the Next Financial Meltdown” and a professor at
MIT’s Sloan School of Management, is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  