-- Bushfire Near Perth Brought Under Control as Homes Destroyed, Roads Closed
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2011-02-08T03:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/western-australia-s-disaster-zone-enters-third-day-of-bushfire-battle.html
A bushfire  burning  near Perth in the
state of Western  Australia  has been contained and brought under
control after destroying homes, closing roads and cutting power.  The fire near the city of Armadale about 30 kilometers (19
miles) southeast of Perth still poses a threat to lives and
homes because of changing weather conditions and strong easterly
winds, the Fire and Emergency Services Authority of Western
Australia  said  on its website.  The blaze, which began on Feb. 6, destroyed 68 structures,
including homes, businesses and sheds, authorities say. Premier  Colin Barnett  yesterday declared an area near Perth a natural
disaster zone. A second bushfire near the city of Swan is also
under control, authorities said.  “I have seen firsthand the devastation these bushfires
caused,” Barnett said in an e-mailed statement today. “At many
of the properties I saw, there was simply nothing left. It will
be heartbreaking for families as they return to the remains.”  The blazes occurred two years after bushfires cut a swath
through the state of Victoria in Australia’s southeast corner,
killing 173 people and razing 450,000 hectares of land. In the
past two months, eastern states have been battered by floods and
cyclones that economists have estimated may cost $20 billion, or
about 1.5 percent of the $1.3 trillion economy.  “Even though many other parts of Australia have received
plenty of rainfall over the past year, southwest Western
Australia had its driest winter on record, following many years
of drought,” David Bruce from the government-run  Bushfire
Cooperative Research Center  said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. “This is a timely reminder to much of Australia that
fire and flood are a regular occurrence and no one should be
complacent.”  The Armadale fire burned about 440 hectares, FESA said. The
Swan fire, which began on Feb. 5, has burned about 1,170
hectares.  The state government will provide immediate financial help
to people affected by the fires, Barnett said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  