-- West African Monetary Zone Fails to Achieve Targets
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 2011-02-07T15:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/west-african-monetary-zone-fails-to-achieve-targets-for-currency-union.html
Five of six West African states
planning to adopt a single currency by 2015 failed last year to
meet the criteria for the introduction of the currency, said  Nigeria ’s minister of state for finance, Yabawa Wabi.  “The overall compliance with macroeconomic convergence
criteria deteriorated,” Wabi said today at a conference in
Abuja, the capital. “The single-digit inflation rate and fiscal
deficit, excluding grants criteria, were missed.”  Nigeria,  Ghana ,  Sierra Leone ,  Guinea  and the Gambia failed
to meet the criteria, with only Liberia meeting the goals, Wabi
said. The common currency, known as the Eco, is expected to
precede a single currency for the regional trading bloc, the
Economic Community of West African States, or Ecowas that
includes seven other countries, in 2020, the Lagos-based
 Guardian  newspaper reported on May 28, citing Victor Gbeho,
Ecowas president.  “It’s going to be very difficult for the necessary
alignment to be achieved” by 2015, said Rose Umoren, president
of Global Money Ltd., an Abuja-based business research company.
Nigeria, which is the biggest economy in the region, “has to
show political leadership.”  Inflation in Nigeria, sub-Saharan Africa’s second-largest
economy after  South Africa , slowed to 11.8 percent in December,
the lowest rate since October 2009, the National Bureau of
Statistics said on Jan. 14.  A number of “structural constraints” such as power
shortages and high transportation costs make a decline in the
inflation rate below 10 percent unlikely in the next “couple of
years,” Yvonne Mhango, sub-Saharan economist at Renaissance
Capital Ltd., said on Jan. 27.  The other Ecowas member-states already belong to the CFA
currency that is backed by the French franc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Okolo in Abuja at 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 