-- West Brom Eyes Roy Hodgson After Firing Roberto Di Matteo: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2011-02-07T11:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/west-brom-eyes-roy-hodgson-after-firing-roberto-di-matteo-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Roy’s Return?  Former Liverpool coach  Roy Hodgson  may return to the
Premier League as a replacement for Roberto Di Matteo at West
Brom, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Hodgson, who lasted just six months at Anfield, is the
Baggies’ top target after Di Matteo was fired yesterday, the
newspaper said.  The Express  said West Brom is also considering  Sam Allardyce .  West Brom lost 3-0 at  Manchester City  two days ago, and is
one place above the relegation zone.  Carragher Wants Kenny  Liverpool defender  Jamie Carragher  wants the team’s
American owners to give  Kenny Dalglish  the manager’s job on a
permanent basis, the  Guardian reported .  Dalglish was named interim manager last month following
Hodgson’s ousting. He’s led Liverpool to four straight wins,
including yesterday’s 1-0 victory at Premier League champion
Chelsea.  “It’s not our decision if he gets the job,” the Guardian
quoted Carragher as saying. “That’s up to the club owners. But
for everyone, especially me and Stevie (Gerrard), he’s a hero to
us. The results are obviously going very well. If you’re asking
me, obviously I’d love him to be the manager.”  Dalglish, considered by many to be Liverpool’s best-ever
player, won three league titles with the Reds during an earlier
spell in charge that ended in 1991.  Russian Revolt  Tottenham’s Russian striker Roman Pavlyuchenko wants to
quit the club at the end of the season,  the Sun  reported.  He’s unhappy with manager  Harry Redknapp  for not giving him
more chances to play in the starting line-up, the newspaper
said.  “I don’t understand why Redknapp keeps me on the bench. He
says nothing about it,” the Sun reported the striker as saying.
“I don’t want to be among the subs after a successful game,
where I scored a goal.”  Twittering Wilshere  Arsenal midfielder  Jack Wilshere  is unlikely to be
disciplined for using his Twitter account to criticize referee
Phil Dowd’s performance in Arsenal’s 4-4 draw at Newcastle, the
 Mail reported .  Wilshere said Dowd had been “inconsistent,” before
deleting his message. Newcastle came back from a 4-0 halftime
deficit to tie this weekend’s game after Dowd red-carded
Arsenal’s Abou Diaby and awarded the Magpies two penalty kicks.  Sturridge Stay  Bolton wants to extend Chelsea striker Daniel Sturridge’s
loan deal into next season, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Sturridge has scored in both games he’s played for Bolton
since joining on the last day of January’s transfer window.  Bolton has started talks with Chelsea officials to extend
the deal, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 