-- Whitney Whips Up Wall Street as Bear in Heels: Alice Schroeder
-- B y   A l i c e   S c h r o e d e r
-- 2011-02-07T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/whitney-whips-up-wall-street-in-high-heels-commentary-by-alice-schroeder.html
Meredith Whitney has done it again,
turning  Wall Street  against her with a contrarian call, this
time on municipal bonds.  The analyst’s prediction for “50 to 100 sizable defaults”
of U.S. municipal bonds totaling “hundreds of billions of
dollars” could become her Big Wrong Call. If so, it will knock
Whitney from a pedestal, to the satisfaction of her many
critics.  She has staked her credibility on this forecast, broadcast
Dec. 20 in an interview on CBS’s “60 Minutes.” Her summary of
a 600-page report to clients prompted a National League of
Cities analyst to say she possessed a “stunning lack of
understanding.” Other critics called her prediction
“ludicrous,” “irresponsible,” “damaging,” and
“overreaching.”  There’s a huge gap between these descriptions and Whitney’s
track record as an analyst. The chasm is so big that it is worth
exploring. Something interesting is going unexamined or
unexplained.  Many of Whitney’s critics have a vested interest in tearing
her down. They include competing municipal bond analysts, fund
managers who run muni portfolios, financial advisers who sell
the tax-exempt securities, and above all, the borrowers who
depend on munis to finance their whopping deficits. To all of
them she is a big-mouthed, larger-than-life nightmare.  Is California Treasurer Bill Lockyer objective when he
calls Whitney’s forecast “apocalyptic arm-waving”?  Contrarian Views  It doesn’t help that her big calls have been bearish, which
automatically pits her against the established interests of Wall
Street. Critics also question whether Whitney’s a perma-bear who
is paid to go to extremes -- in effect, the flipside of the
rating companies that were perma-bulls on mortgage-backed
securities before the financial crisis.  There has been a fair debate over whether Whitney’s correct
and negative call on Citigroup, which gave her credibility, also
made her overconfident and created a monster desperate for
attention. By extending her franchise beyond banks, Whitney has
fed the monster argument.  If she were demure and understated instead of a brassy
hustler who markets herself on television with stunning success,
fewer people might be hoping for Whitney’s fall. But she’s
willing to break a sweat to boost her business and sell herself
as a brand. That doesn’t make her a phony.  My eyes roll every time an article mentions her
professional wrestler husband and his colorful aliases, usually
with the innuendo that she’s putting on a similar (that is,
inauthentic) show.  Heels and ‘Squeals’  New York magazine, in a March 2009 story, pointed out that
for its  interview , Whitney “dressed in a tightly fitted plum
velvet jacket and towering red patent-leather heels.” The
article goes on to report her “squeals” about receiving a
gift-box of cookies. Fortunately, the magazine didn’t speculate
about her bra size.  It’s easier to understand Whitney when you study her
provenance. I knew her in the mid-1990s at Oppenheimer & Co.
when she was a wide-eyed research assistant to analyst Steve Eisman, now of FrontPoint Partners and one of the main figures
in  Michael Lewis ’s bestseller, “The Big Short.”  Back in those days he was a firebrand who terrorized
consumer finance companies. Eisman was the first, if not the
only analyst to call them out for trying to outrace a tide of
loan-losses through massive growth in lending. His style was to
assume the role of town crier, revel in the controversy he
created, and take the flak as he waited for the targets of his
crusade to crash and burn, as he knew they would do.  Foreseeing Failure  It’s a template that has worked multiple times in the past
two decades to predict the fate of business models built on the
false notion that high growth can overcome bad economics. (See:
Enron, Countrywide, Washington Mutual and AIG.)  Those who were early to grasp the single most important
business dynamic of our era -- the Ponzification of America --
turned what is an unfurling disaster for our country into a
money-maker for investors. Eisman taught Whitney, and they were
both early.  Whitney’s latest call on municipal defaults is the logical
extension of this theme. Her point is that, until now, investors
were getting paid too little for the risk they were taking by
investing in local municipal bonds. She isn’t the first to note
troubles in the muni market, just the most aggressive and
unequivocal in her point of view. That willingness to be gutsy,
along with the work that went into the 600-page report,
“Tragedy of the Commons,” is what finally put this issue in
the news.  Debating Details  Whitney has been tripped up over unfortunate arguments
about whether defaults will number fewer than 50 or more than
100, what is meant by the term default, and whether hundreds of
billions of dollars in defaulted debt is a lot or a little.  Her critics have argued that the federal government will
wave its wand and do another bailout, or some legal abracadabra
may let municipalities avoid technical bankruptcy. These are
beside the point of what Whitney’s trying to say: that the risk
premium for local municipal bonds was seriously out of whack.  The question isn’t how much municipal bond investors will
get back in interest payments and principal, but how much the
securities were overpriced compared with safer assets. All
Whitney has to do is endure the flak until we find out. She is
one tough lady, and I suspect can handle that.    Alice Schroeder , author of “The Snowball:  Warren Buffett 
and the Business of Life” and a former managing director at
Morgan Stanley, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
Alice Schroeder at  aliceschroeder@ymail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  