-- Pound Gains, Two-Year Yields Climb on U.K. Inflation Concerns
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2011-02-07T16:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/two-year-u-k-yields-reach-two-year-high-on-outlook-for-higher-key-rate.html
The pound strengthened against the
euro and the yield on two-year U.K. government notes surged to a
two-year high on speculation that above-target inflation may
force the  Bank of England  to raise borrowing costs this year.  Sterling appreciated against 13 of its 16 most actively
traded peers, advancing most against the Norwegian krone. The
Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King , will likely leave its key interest rate at a record
low of 0.5 percent when it meets Feb. 10, even with the
inflation rate at almost twice the 2 percent target, according
to a Bloomberg survey of 62 economists.  “What has been driving the pound is expectations of higher
interest rates going forward, and nothing has come out to
counter that possibility,” said  Neil Mellor , a London-based
currency strategist at BNY Mellon. “We don’t think they’ll hike
this week, but the important thing is what they say. Some MPC
members are clearly becoming concerned about the impact of doing
nothing about inflation.”  The pound appreciated as much as 0.5 percent to 83.89 pence
per euro, the first breach of the 84 pence level since Jan. 19,
before trading 0.3 percent stronger at 84.08 as of 4:36 p.m. in  London . Britain’s currency was little changed at $1.6124, after
earlier gaining as much as 0.5 percent.  Two-year notes fell for a second day, raising the yield on
the 4.5 percent security due March 2013 by three basis points to
1.55 percent, after earlier rising to 1.63 percent, the highest
intraday level since February 2009. The note lost 0.07, or 70
pence per 1,000-pound face amount, to 106.005  Rate Outlook  The so-called “shadow” monetary policy committee of the
Institute for Economic Affairs, a London research group, is in
favor of an immediate rate increase to 1 percent by a margin of
5 to 4, the Sunday Times reported yesterday, without saying
where it obtained the information.  “This is an interesting turnaround in opinion,” Credit
Agricole SA said in a client note today, referring to the Sunday
Times article. “One suspects the debate is drifting in the same
direction at the MPC itself, but in a more subdued way.”  Monetary Policy Committee member  Martin Weale  joined
colleague  Andrew Sentance  in voting for a rate increase at the
group’s Jan. 13 meeting on concern that inflation may become
entrenched. Inflation reached 3.7 percent in December, equaling
the reading in April, which was the highest since November 2008.  Short-sterling futures fell, raising the implied yield on
the contract expiring in December by two basis points to 1.72
percent. A higher yield, which is used to gauge central bank
rate expectations, indicates investors are adding to bets that
policy makers will increase borrowing costs.  “We see a zero chance of the Bank of England raising rates
at this meeting, but I guess some people don’t want to
completely rule out that possibility given recent inflation
headlines,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at
Rabobank International Ltd. in London.  The U.K. 10-year breakeven rate, an indication of
investors’ inflation expectations derived from the yield gap
between conventional and index-linked bonds, was little changed
at 3.23 percent. The rate climbed as high 3.33 percent earlier
today, the highest level since September 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  