-- Dollar Falls as China's Rate Boost Fails to Quell Investor Yield Appetite
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2011-02-08T22:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/yen-trades-near-week-low-before-u-s-german-reports-pointing-to-recovery.html
The dollar fell against most of its
major counterparts as  China ’s interest-rate increases failed to
quell investors’ appetite for higher-yielding assets.  The euro rose versus 12 of its 16 most-traded peers as
signs of normality in Egypt’s financial market damped concern
unrest in the region would intensify.  Brazil ’s real and New
Zealand’s dollar, currencies tied to global growth, were the top
performers. The yen erased an advance versus the greenback as
Treasury yields extended gains after a $32 billion note sale.  “Market participants have understood that China is
intently trying to slow their economy down and most people feel
it’s going to be a soft landing, so that supports the risk
backdrop for commodity currencies over the long term,” said  Mark McCormick , a New York-based currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. “The market today is being driven by
dollar weakness outside of strength of any other currency.”  The dollar depreciated 0.3 percent to $1.3625 per euro at 5
p.m. in New York, from $1.3583 yesterday. The yen declined 0.4
percent to 112.23 versus the euro, from 111.82. The dollar was
little changed at 82.36 yen after earlier falling to 81.78.  The yen dropped versus 12 of its major counterparts as
Treasury yields climbed after a U.S. auction of three-year notes
drew the lowest participation by indirect bidders, a category
that includes foreign central banks, since May 2007. Indirect
bidders bought 27.6 percent of the notes at the sale. Higher
yields make dollar-denominated debt more attractive.  Treasury Yields  Yields on the two-year Treasury note rose nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 0.85 percent, the highest
level since June. That compares to a one-basis-point gain to
0.23 percent by comparable Japanese debt.  New Zealand’s dollar appreciated 0.7 percent to 77.51 U.S.
cents. The South African rand, the No. 3 performer, gained 0.6
percent to 7.1935 per U.S. dollar.  Brazil’s real strengthened as much as 1 percent, the most
in a week on an intraday basis, to 1.6631 per U.S. dollar.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  met with
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  yesterday in Brasilia and
said later he was “very confident” the nations can strengthen
economic ties. The two countries have worked together to
encourage policy changes in China and other emerging countries,
Brazil’s Valor Economico newspaper cited Geithner as saying in
an interview.  China raised rates for the third time since mid-October
before data forecast to show accelerating inflation. The
benchmark one-year lending rate will increase to 6.06 percent
from 5.81 percent, effective tomorrow, the People’s Bank of
China said on its website today.  Egyptian Pound  The Egyptian pound strengthened the most against the dollar
in more than three months as the central bank intervened to
support it, according to Deputy Governor Hisham Ramez.  Egypt’s currency advanced 1.3 percent, the most on an
intraday basis since Oct. 20, to 5.8780 against the  U.S. dollar .
The central bank intervened in financial markets today, buying
pounds to halt the decline of the currency. Earlier the currency
fell to a six-year low of 5.9615.  Egyptian Vice President  Omar Suleiman  sought to convince
protesters the government is serious about moving toward
democracy.  The euro remained higher versus the dollar even after the
Economy Ministry in Berlin reported that German’s industrial
production unexpectedly contracted in December. Output fell 1.5
percent, compared with a median forecast for a 0.2 percent gain.  Not Negative Today  “News that should have been negative for the euro has not
been so today,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency
strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  New York . “The overall
direction today will be driven by the mood in equities.”  Stocks rose, with the MSCI World Index gaining 0.64 percent
and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index up 0.4 percent.  The euro fell 0.5 percent over the past week, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The greenback rose 1.1 percent. The
Australian dollar was the best performer, gaining 1.5 percent.    South Korea ’s won strengthened 0.3 percent to 1,104.68 per
dollar as economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast the
Bank of  Korea  will boost the seven-day repurchase rate by 25
basis points to 3 percent at its meeting this week. President  Lee Myung Bak  declared last month “war” on inflation.  “Asian currencies have continued to rally and central
banks continue to intervene and stem the appreciation, and that
in turn is leading to demand for euros,” said Paresh Upadhyaya,
head of Americas G-10 currency strategy at Bank of America Corp.
in New York.  Lacker, Lockhart  Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker
said a quickening U.S. recovery means policy makers need to take
“quite seriously” their commitment to review a $600 billion
monetary-stimulus program scheduled to end in June. Lacker spoke
today in a speech in  Newark ,  Delaware .  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said concern that the
U.S. recovery may falter is justified as hiring lags behind
economic growth.  “Main Street is justifiably concerned today about the
sustainability of the modest recovery that’s been under way now
for six quarters, the persistence of high unemployment and the
specter of inflation,” Lockhart said today in a speech in
Anniston,  Alabama .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testifies tomorrow at a
hearing of the House Budget Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  