-- Zimbabwe Marange Mines 1 Million Carats Gems a Month
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2011-02-07T17:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-07/zimbabwe-s-marange-fields-are-producing-1-million-carats-of-gems-a-month.html
Production from  Zimbabwe ’s Marange
diamond fields is about one million carats a month, said Chaim Evan-Zohar, president of Tacy Ltd., citing information he got
from a government official.  The gems from the fields are not   blood diamonds ” but are
produced under the “wrong political system,” Evan-Zohar, of
the industry consultant company, told the Mining Indaba
conference in Cape Town today. Talks with the  Kimberley Process 
to allow their export have failed, he said.  The diamond industry “can’t afford” to ignore “issues”
like the Marange diamonds, Evan-Zohar said. “We thought the
whole thing was behind us.”  Zimbabwe is in talks with the Kimberley Process, which
monitors trade in so-called  conflict diamonds , on selling gems
from the field in eastern Zimbabwe, the World Diamond Council
said Feb. 4, without giving further details. The southern
African nation must show how it will stop gems being smuggled
over the border to  Mozambique , the  Kimberley Process  said in
documents sent to Zimbabwe on Dec. 29 and obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Human Rights Watch , based in  New York , said Dec. 29 that
President Robert Mugabe may be using diamond revenue from
Marange to fund political violence and intimidation against his
opponents in the Movement for Democratic Change.  Rights Abuses  Rights group Kubatana in Zimbabwe says the government
committed repeated abuses at Marange, an alluvial diamond field
seized from U.K.-based  African Consolidated Resources Plc  in
2006. No reason was given for the seizure, which African
Consolidating is challenging in the Zimbabwean courts.  Mathieu Yamba, the Kinshasa-based chairman of the Kimberley
Process declined to comment when called by Bloomberg News for
comment today.  Yamba on Feb. 4 said Zimbabwe hadn’t responded to a
proposal that would allow it to resume exports of gems from
Marange.  Diamonds from Marange are “out there,” Evan-Zohar said.
“Diamonds are like water, you really can’t stop them flowing,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at +27-11-286-1915 or
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporters on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in London at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  