-- 
Accused Underpants Bomber’s Statements Can Be Used at Trial, Judge Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   S t e v e   R a p h a e l
-- 
2011-09-15T15:57:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/accused-underpants-bomber-s-statements-can-be-used-at-trial-judge-says.html
Statements by the man accused of
the Christmas 2009 attempt to blow up a Northwest Airlines plane
with explosives hidden in his underpants can be introduced by
U.S. prosecutors at trial, a judge said.  The defendant,  Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab , said agents
improperly questioned him in a hospital while he was under the
influence of the painkiller fentanyl and that they failed to
read him his rights. He asked U.S. District Judge Nancy G. Edmunds in Detroit to exclude the statements he made to federal
agents after being taken into custody.  The U.S. said that Abdulmutallab wasn’t impaired by drugs
and that concerns for public safety required agents to question
him immediately, before advising him of his rights. Edmunds
today agreed, rejecting Abdulmutallab’s motion.  Abdulmutallab was “coherent and knew what he was saying,”
Edmunds said today at a hearing. The agents were justified in
not telling Abdulmutallab he had the right to remain silent
because of national security concerns, she said.  Anthony Chambers, Abdulmutallab’s standby counsel, didn’t
immediately return calls for comment. Abdulmutallab fired his
court-appointed attorneys last year and is representing himself.
He’s being aided by Chambers, a  Detroit  lawyer appointed by the
court, who has filed pretrial motions on the defendant’s behalf
and questioned witnesses at the hearing.  Approaching Detroit  Northwest Airlines Flight 253, carrying 279 passengers and
11 crew members, originated in Amsterdam and was approaching
Detroit on Dec. 25, 2009, when Abdulmutallab tried to detonate
the explosives, prosecutors said. He set fire to his clothing
and a wall before passengers subdued him, prosecutors said.  Abdulmutallab, a 24-year-old native of  Nigeria , faces eight
criminal counts, including conspiracy to commit an act of
terrorism, attempted murder and attempted use of a weapon of
mass destruction. He pleaded not guilty and faces a possible
life sentence if convicted.  His trial is set for Oct. 4. Jury selection began yesterday
with Edmunds giving about 250 prospective jurors a
questionnaire.  Abdulmutallab told  U.S. Customs  and Border Protection
officers immediately following the airplane incident that “he
had detonated an explosive device hidden in his underwear, and
that he had been acting on behalf of al-Qaeda,” prosecutors
said Aug. 26in court papers.  Pain Medicine  Abdulmutallab was sent to a hospital at the University of
 Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , where he was treated for burns and given
fentanyl, the U.S. said. FBI agents were assured by medical
staff that the amount of the painkiller he received “would not
render him incommunicative or unable to understand them,” the
government said.  Investigators didn’t tell Abdulmutallab before questioning
that he had a right to remain silent because they feared he was
part of a coordinated plot by al-Qaeda, Timothy Waters of the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  testified yesterday at a hearing
before Edmunds.  “We had to find out who he was in contact with,” Waters
said. “We felt there were other planes in the air with  suicide
bombers .”  The case is U.S. v. Abdulmutallab, 10-cr-20005, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Raphael in Detroit
at   sraphael5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 