-- 
Air Cargo Down as Comerica Mulls Recession Risk: Freight Markets

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-09-15T14:48:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/air-cargo-down-as-comerica-mulls-recession-risk-freight-markets.html
Sagging cargo shipments in the
belly of passenger jets at carriers such as  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  are stoking concern that
the  U.S. economy  risks a double-dip recession.  United’s cargo traffic plunged 17 percent in August for the
fourth straight drop that exceeded 10 percent, while Delta’s
cargo was little changed for three months in a row and  American
Airlines  extended a streak of decreases that began in May.  “We have a lot of consumer nervousness over the economy,”
Delta Chief Cargo Officer Neel Shah said in a telephone
interview. “One day people feel good, and the next day they
feel bad, and it’s that volatility that’s the problem.”  Cargo is a bellwether for the carriers’ main business of
flying people, said  Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Trahan & Co. analyst.
While cargo is less than 4 percent of sales at the biggest U.S.
airlines, their monthly reports offer more-timely soundings on
the $60 billion global air-freight market than quarterly results
from  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)   Frequent flights and broad networks help airlines win
business for everything from U.S. mail to electronics, along
with niche shipments such as sushi-grade seafood, baby chicks
for poultry farms and caskets containing human remains.  “The decline in air cargo is yet another indicator among
so many that suggests the economy continues to be weak and may
be inching closer to recession,” said Robert Dye,  Comerica
Inc. (CMA) ’s chief economist.  ‘Off a Cliff’  The slide in air-carrier cargo correlates with “consumer
confidence falling off a cliff” in August, Dye said in an
interview from Dallas. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index slid
to minus 49.3 in the week ended Sept. 4, 2011’s second-worst
reading, and stayed at that level last week.  Dye rates the risk of a recession at 45 percent.  Mark Vitner , senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in
Charlotte,  North Carolina , put the chances at one in three. The
cargo drop “flies in the face” of assertions that shipping
disruptions from  Japan ’s earthquake had been resolved, he said.  “I don’t think it’s unreasonable to look at these cargo
numbers and grow a little suspicious on what it means for
passenger trends,” Keay, who is based in New York, said in an
interview.  Analysts and investors have been watching for signs of a
return to recession because unemployment has hovered at about 9
percent or more for two years, damping  consumer confidence  and
spending.  Bond Outlook  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is among the
economists saying the U.S. will avoid another slump, and
Treasury investors are backing that forecast. Since the so-
called long bond debuted in 1977, the economy has never
contracted when the gap between 10- and 30-year rates has been
as wide as it is now.  The Fed also reported today that U.S. industrial output
unexpectedly rose in August, signaling manufacturing will
support the world’s largest economy.  The airline-cargo slowdown began in May, following Japan’s
March 11 earthquake and tsunami. Carriers also cited tougher
comparisons with a year earlier when many businesses replenished
inventory as the economy improved.  At Atlanta-based Delta, cargo traffic had been growing by
15 percent in March and April before cooling to a 2.1 percent
pace for May. Traffic has been little changed since then.
Exports are down from China and Japan, and domestic U.S. loads
are shrinking, Shah said.  Holiday Season  “Everyone is cautious,” said Shah, who added that his
conversations with customers indicate that there won’t be the
usual fourth-quarter shipment peak from holiday gift-buying.  Softening cargo volumes, which are measured in the number
of tons flown a mile, are only the latest drag on airline stocks
in a year in which jet-fuel prices have averaged 45 percent more
than in the same period of 2010.  The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index was down 29 percent this
year through yesterday, paced by American parent  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s 54
percent plunge. Delta dropped 33 percent, and United slid 15
percent.  United, the world’s biggest airline, had $1.16 billion in
cargo sales last year, or 3.4 percent of its total. Delta’s
cargo revenue was $850 million, or 2.7 percent, while American
reported $672 million, or 3 percent.  United’s 2011 cargo results have been hamstrung by a
limited ability to reposition aircraft while awaiting regulatory
clearance to run its United Airlines and Continental Airlines
units as a single carrier after their 2010 merger, said Mike Trevino, a spokesman for the Chicago-based company.  Jet Choices  Continental uses mostly narrow-body jets to  Latin America 
and  Europe , which are among the most resilient markets for cargo
right now, and those planes can’t carry as much payload as
United’s wide-body jets flying to  Asia , the weakest region now.  “Our strength is in Asia, so as Asia has had difficulties,
that has had an impact,” Trevino said. “We will have some
upside as we continue” to integrate the two airlines, he said.  Freight traffic at  Fort Worth , Texas-based American has
shrunk from the prior year each month in 2011 except for April’s
2.2 percent increase. New offerings such as temperature
monitoring for pharmaceuticals have helped blunt the declines,
said Jennifer Pemberton, a spokeswoman.  “This year we think it’s just a typical summer slump,”
she said. “We’re a little bit out of pattern because last year
there was more restocking” as the economy strengthened.  Global Decline  Global air-cargo shipments fell for three straight months
through July, the most-recent month for which data are
available, according to the International Air Transport
Association. The Geneva-based trade group estimates that the
world air-cargo market is valued at $60 billion, which includes
freight-only operators such as UPS and FedEx.  “Historically, cargo has been a pretty good leading
indicator for business and premium traffic by about three to six
months,”  Michael Linenberg , a Deutsche Bank AG analyst in  New
York , said in a note last month. “Business and premium traffic
tends to lead leisure travel by a similar time frame.”  Even as industry executives such as Delta President Ed Bastian said this week at a conference hosted by Linenberg that
travel demand was firm, some also signaled their concern with
steps to shrink passenger capacity.  Delta said it would trim 2012 flying by 2 percent to 3
percent, while American said it would pare available seats next
quarter by 0.5 percent and said its plans for next year are
under review. United and Delta previously scaled back on seating
for the end of this year.  “Cargo is usually the canary in the mine shaft,” Delta’s
Shah said. “I don’t know if we’re going to face that sort of
situation this time. Passenger demand is holding up quite well,
yet everyone is being very cautious with costs and capacity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 