-- 
Taiwan Dollar Near Six-Month Low on Stock Outflows; Bonds Steady

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-09-15T02:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/taiwan-dollar-near-six-month-low-on-stock-outflows-bonds-steady.html
Taiwan’s dollar traded near a six-
month low after overseas investors pulled $835 million from the
island’s stock market in the last two days.  Government bonds 
were little changed.  The currency is likely to be supported by speculation the
central bank will intervene to stem volatility and as exporters
take advantage of the relatively favorable  exchange rate  to
repatriate funds, according to Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader
on the Asian and emerging-markets team at Mizuho Corporate Bank
Ltd. Indonesia’s monetary authority said yesterday it sold
dollars to support the nation’s currency, while traders said
India and  South Korea  also intervened.  “Investors are accelerating sell-offs of Asia’s emerging-
market assets, weighing on regional currencies,” said Tokyo-
based Shiroki. “There’s some demand from exporters and growing
concern about intervention by Asian central banks to support
their currencies.”  The Taiwan dollar traded at NT$29.643 against the greenback
as of 9:49 a.m. local time, from NT$29.625 yesterday, according
to Taipei Forex Inc. It’s dropped 2.1 percent this month and
touched NT$29.70 yesterday, the weakest level since March 1.  Overseas investors sold $1.8 billion more Taiwanese shares
than they bought this month through yesterday, exchange data
show. Global funds are shunning emerging-market assets as
 Europe ’s debt crisis deters risk-taking.  The yield on Taiwan’s 1.25 percent debt due September 2021,
the most-traded  government securities , held steady at 1.25
percent, according to Gretai Securities Market.  The overnight money-market rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, slid to 0.388 percent from 0.393 percent
yesterday, according to a weighted average compiled by the
Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  