-- 
Taiwan Security Stepped Up After ‘Aryan Nations’ Terror Threat

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 
2011-09-15T02:55:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/taiwan-security-stepped-up-after-aryan-nations-terror-threat.html
Security at  Asia ’s tallest
skyscraper, Taipei 101, was stepped up after Taiwan police
received an e-mailed threat to carry out a chemical attack
purporting to be from a U.S. white supremacist group.  Taipei City police received an e-mail in English yesterday
claiming to be from  Aryan Nations  threatening two buildings in
Taipei and two in the southern city of Kaohsiung, Chou Shou-
sung, deputy chief of Taipei City Police Department said by
phone today. Police couldn’t confirm the source of the threat
and authorities haven’t ruled out a hoax.  Aryan Nations leader  August Kreis  in a 2005 television
interview said he wanted to form an alliance with al-Qaeda in
its war against the U.S. government, according to the  Federal
Bureau of Investigations . Kreis, 56, entered a guilty plea for
pensions fraud following an investigation sparked by the claim,
the FBI said Aug. 23.  Taipei police have never received a similar threat before,
and Aryan Nations has no record of activity in  Taiwan , said
Chang Wen-rui, a spokesman for the force. The initial
investigation showed the e-mail was sent from abroad, he said.
The e-mail gave no motive for the threat and didn’t say what the
group wants to achieve, Chang said.  Taipei Financial Center Corp., which operates the Taipei
101 office tower and shopping mall, increased the number of
security staff and stepped up patrols after being informed of
the threat yesterday afternoon, said Michael Liu, a spokesman
for the company. Local police didn’t provide any specific
information on the danger, Liu said.  Shopkeepers at Taipei 101, which marks its eighth
anniversary today, have been advised to be wary of suspicious
activity and packages, Liu said. Workers were not told what they
should specifically look out for, Liu said.  City government officials don’t rule out the possibility
that the threat is a prank, Taipei City government said in a
press release today. No unusual activity has been reported, said
city government spokesman Edward Chang.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  