-- 
German Stocks Rise for Third Day; Banks Gain as Aixtron Sinks

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-09-15T16:02:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/aixtron-sap-thyssenkrupp-fresenius-german-equities-preview.html
German stocks advanced for a third
day after Europe’s biggest economy and France assured investors
that Greece will remain a member of the euro region and the
European Central bank announced liquidity measures.  Deutsche bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  soared after the ECB
said it will lend dollars to euro-area banks.  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  led carmakers higher.  Hugo Boss AG (BOS)  rose
4.7 percent on a report that China may cut taxes on  luxury
goods . Aixtron SE slid to the lowest since September 2009 after
cutting its sales forecast.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  rose 3.2 percent to 5,508.24 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt for the biggest three-day gain
since April 2009. The measure has still plunged 27 percent from
this year’s peak in May as the debt crisis spreads from Greece
to the larger economies of Italy, Spain and France. The broader
HDAX Index climbed 3 percent today.  “As markets are largely reigned by emotions rather than by
fundamentals nowadays, the situation keeps changing like in a
kaleidoscope,” said Anita Paluch, senior sales trader at Gekko
Global Markets Ltd. in London. “The firm support of Greece by
Germany and  France  made its way into the minds of investors.”  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy said late yesterday they are “convinced”
Greece will stay in the euro area as they faced international
calls to increase efforts to fight the sovereign-debt crisis.  Biggest Economies  The leaders of the euro area’s two biggest economies issued
the statement following a phone conversation with Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou . Papandreou committed to meet
deficit-reduction targets demanded as a condition for an
international bailout, according to statements from governments
in Athens, Berlin and Paris.  Stocks extended gains after the ECB said it will lend euro-
area banks dollars in three separate three-month loans to ensure
they have enough of the U.S. currency through the end of the
year. The Frankfurt-based  central bank  said that, in
coordination with the Fed, the  Bank of England , the Bank of
Japan and the Swiss National Bank, it will conduct three dollar
liquidity-providing operations with a maturity of approximately
three months. The loans are in addition to the bank’s regular
seven-day dollar offerings.  U.S. Economy  A U.S. report today showed industrial production
unexpectedly rose in August. Output at factories, mines and
utilities climbed 0.2 percent after a 0.9 percent gain in July,
figures from the  Federal Reserve  showed. Economists had forecast
no change, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey.  Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank, Germany’s biggest lenders,
jumped 5.8 percent to 24.89 euros and 7.8 percent to 1.74 euros,
respectively. Banking shares in the benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600
Index rallied 4.1 percent today, the most in more than a month.  BMW and Daimler, the world’s biggest makers of luxury cars,
rose 2.6 percent to 56.52 euros and 2.8 percent to 35.22 euros,
respectively. Preferred shares of  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  increased 3.6
percent to 112.45 euros. Carmakers were among the best
performers among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 today,
rising 3.2 percent.  Hugo Boss  Hugo Boss preferred shares added 4.7 percent to 72 euros as
the National Business Daily reported that China may cut luxury-
goods taxes by the end of the year. The world’s second-biggest
economy will cut tariffs on cosmetics first. Clothes and leather
goods might follow, the newspaper said, citing an unidentified
person familiar with the situation.  Fresenius SE (FRE)  climbed 1.1 percent to 70.78 euros after
Citigroup Inc. gave the shares a “buy” rating in new coverage.
The brokerage has a share-price forecast of 86 euros on the
stock.  Lanxess AG rose 1.4 percent to 38.05 euros as the chemicals
company was upgraded to “buy” from “neutral” at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  Aixtron sank 12 percent to 12.43 euros, its lowest price in
two years, after forecasting revenue of 600 million euros ($829
million) to 650 million euros for 2011. The maker of equipment
used to produce LED screens had a previous sales prediction of
800 million euros to 900 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  