-- 
All Parties Lose in Vote on Palestinian State Resolution: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-15T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/all-parties-will-lose-in-un-vote-on-palestinian-statehood-resolution-view.html
In the coming days, the  Palestinian
Authority  will seek a vote in the  United Nations General
Assembly  to recognize an independent state of Palestine. The
result will be a diplomatic disaster.  The resolution will surely pass, and by a huge margin, with
only the U.S.,  Israel  and a handful of other countries against,
and a larger number, including some in Europe, abstaining.  We believe in the Palestinians’ right to self-determination
in an independent state that exists side by side with a secure
Israel. Like most Palestinians and Israelis, we support a two-
state solution. The problem isn’t the destination, it’s the
journey. The painful truth is that the Israelis and the
Palestinians do not have leaders wise enough to take the
political risks that will be necessary to achieve an enduring
peace.  Meanwhile, the U.S. and  Europe  have mishandled their
relations with both parties by raising expectations for progress
toward peace, and then failing to follow through. Indeed, the
current crisis over the Palestinian UN resolution is a piece of
a much larger tragedy.  Some recent history is instructive. Shortly after assuming
office, President  Barack Obama , along with European leaders,
began pushing Israelis and Arabs to take certain confidence-
building measures to develop trust and create momentum for a
resumption of fruitful negotiations. Israel was asked to freeze
the building of settlements in the West Bank, and a number of
moderate Arab countries were asked to demonstrate a willingness
to accept Israel into the region -- by, for example, allowing
Israeli airliners to fly over their territory, establishing low-
level diplomatic offices in their capitals or agreeing to
publicize meetings with Israeli officials.  However, the Arab nations, most notably  Saudi Arabia ,
refused. At that point, Obama should have dropped the strategy
and sought to start negotiations with no preconditions. Then, he
could have simply blamed those Arab countries for failing to
take risks necessary to achieve a settlement freeze.  Incredibly, the administration instead insisted on trying
to persuade Israel to stop building settlements anyway, without
success. Then, Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas , seeing the
U.S. and Israel at odds, declared that if the settlements didn’t
stop, he couldn’t enter negotiations. That’s how the current
stalemate arose. Now the Israelis are prepared to return to the
negotiating table, while the Palestinians have refused unless
the Israelis stop the settlements.  Obama has repeatedly said that an Israeli-Palestinian peace
agreement is one of his highest priorities. It is an even higher
priority for the Europeans. But no one has come up with a
coherent strategy to restart peace talks. As a result, Obama has
made less progress toward Israeli-Palestinian peace than any
administration since the early 1970s.  Indeed, it was Obama who, in his Sept. 23, 2010,  speech  to
the General Assembly, originally raised the goal of admitting
 Palestine  to the UN by September 2011. Abbas claims
disingenuously that frustration with Obama’s failure to deliver
on his “promise” and the accompanying stalemate over peace talks
justifies the push for UN recognition.  Although we understand Abbas’s unhappiness with the outside
world’s flawed diplomacy and Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s dubious commitment to compromise for a lasting
peace, in our view, the Palestinians have the most to lose by a
push for recognition at the UN. The Palestinians may get a few
days of satisfying political theater, but they will render more
remote the chance of a future independent Palestine.  The problem with the UN vote is what happens the day after.
Palestinians will soon see that nothing has changed on the
ground, and this could spark a new uprising. The  U.S. Congress 
is threatening to react to a UN vote by cutting off assistance
to Palestinian security forces, which would increase the chances
of terrorist attacks originating in the  West Bank . And further
isolating Israel would not make its leaders more amenable to
compromise. That strategy has been tried, and it has failed
again and again.  Former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair , acting on behalf of
the Quartet -- the U.S.,  Russia , the European Union and the UN -
- is still trying to head off a crisis by getting the parties to
agree to restart negotiations. We wish him well but fear his
efforts will be too little, too late.  The Quartet should plan to limit the damage that the
Palestinian initiative could cause. Tomorrow, we will suggest
ways to do so.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 