-- 
Allscripts CEO Says Eclipsys Synthesis Will Boost Stock Growth

-- B y   C a r o l   E i s e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-15T20:08:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/allscripts-ceo-says-eclipsys-synthesis-will-boost-stock-growth.html
Allscripts Healthcare Solutions
Inc. (MDRX) ’s $1.3 billion acquisition of Eclipsys Corp. last year will
accelerate its stock growth as the integration boost sales,
Chief Executive Officer Glen Tullman said.  The clinical-software company’s shares gained 1.4 percent
in the past 12 months, held back by concern that combining the
businesses would be difficult, he said. Chicago-based Allscripts
had focused on digitizing physicians’ practices, while Eclipsys
of Atlanta specialized in hospital systems.  “Sometimes when you do a larger merger or acquisition,
what happens is you get put in the penalty box,” Tullman said
today in an interview at Bloomberg’s Washington office. “People
ask, ‘Are they going to make it work? Are they going to continue
growing?”  The acquisition positions the combined company to take
advantage of health-care consolidation and reimbursement systems
that reward providers for quality of care rather than the number
of procedures. Allscripts has a dominant share of an electronic
health-record market that’s benefiting from $27.4 billion in
U.S. government stimulus money, he said.  Allscripts’ vision is to create “a fully connected
community,” he said. “Small physicians’ offices connected to
the largest, best hospital, connected to post-acute care
facilities.”  The stock gained 8 cents to $18.40 at 2:31 p.m. in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading.  Stock Rating  Sean Wieland, technology analyst at Piper Jaffray and Co.
in  San Francisco , said he initially downgraded Allscripts stock
as a result of executive departures and customer losses, which
are “baked into the cake of large mergers,” and raised his
rating last month back to “overweight” from ”neutral.”  Wieland’s prognosis is the company has successfully
integrated, and is one of three firms positioned, with  Kansas
City , Missouri-based  Cerner Corp. (CERN)  and closely held Epic Systems
Corp. of Verona,  Wisconsin , to build the backbone of hospital
clinical information systems.  The combined company addressed lingering concerns on
integration last month by demonstrating its ability to transmit
records between physicians’ practices and hospitals at a user
conference with 5,000 attendees, said Tullman, 53, who became
CEO in August 1997.  Allscripts now has contracts with 180,000 physicians, 1,500
hospitals and 10,000 post-acute care facilities such as
rehabilitation centers, he said. The company will “continue to
be opportunistic” about investing in smart technology related
to care management and analytics.  The company has made two strategic investments in the past
year in an Israeli company called dbMotion Ltd., a connector of
electronic record systems, and in Boston-based Humedica Inc.,
which helps health providers manage large numbers of clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Eisenberg in Washington at 
 Ceisenberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  