-- 
American Superconductor Plunges, Ex-Employee Jailed for Code Theft

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-09-15T20:47:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/amsc-to-seek-sinovel-payments-on-lost-turbine-parts-contract.html
American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC) ,
which provides components used in 10 percent of the world’s wind
turbines, plunged the most in three months after it said an
employee was jailed for stealing intellectual property and
selling it to Sinovel Wind Group Co.  Shares of the Devens, Massachusetts-based company fell
$1.07, or 15 percent, to $6.01 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading,
the biggest decline since June 1.  Sinovel, China’s biggest wind-turbine maker, paid an
American Superconductor systems integrator in  Austria  for
software and source code, Chief Executive Officer Daniel McGahn
said today on a conference call with analysts. He didn’t
identify the worker, who he said was no longer with the company
and is now in jail awaiting trial on charges including economic
espionage.  “We have evidence that senior-level Sinovel employees
engaged and paid an AMSC employee who illegally obtained and
transferred some of our intellectual property,” McGahn said.
“We are aggressively pursuing all legal remedies against
Sinovel.”  American Superconductor said yesterday that it filed a
claim for arbitration against Sinovel with the Beijing
Arbitration Commission. It also filed civil and criminal
complaints in Beijing related to the allegedly stolen
intellectual property, it said in an e-mailed statement today.  ‘Limited Future’  “We’re concerned that the story around their wind
business, particularly in  China , has a very limited future
without Sinovel,” said Paul Clegg, an analyst at Mizuho
Securities in  New York  who has a “sell” rating on American
Superconductor’s shares. “You suddenly go from a company that
was profitable to one that is not going to be profitable for who
knows how long.”  Sinovel refused to accept contracted shipments of
electrical components and spare parts for 1.5-megawatt and 3-
megawatt turbines, American Superconductor said April 5. The
component company’s shares have plunged 79 percent since then.
The Beijing-based turbine company generated about 70 percent of
American Superconductor’s revenue in fiscal 2009.  “As of today, Sinovel is not a customer,” McGahn said.
“Customers pay their bills and customers respect intellectual
property.”  Sinovel used American Superconductor’s software to upgrade
hundreds of its  wind turbines  to meet proposed Chinese grid
codes and to allow the turbines to use electrical components
from other manufacturers, he said.  Xiao Qiang, Sinovel’s spokesman, said by phone that it’s
“impossible” for the company to comment before consulting its
legal affairs department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Herndon in Washington at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  