-- 
NY Area Manufacturing Decline Accelerates

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-15T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/manufacturing-in-new-york-fed-area-contracts-at-faster-pace-than-forecast.html
Manufacturing in the  New York 
region unexpectedly contracted in September at a faster pace,
underscoring concerns a mainstay of the recovery is fading.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index dropped to minus 8.8, the weakest reading since November,
from minus 7.7 in August. Economists projected an increase to
minus 4, based on the median of 54 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey. Readings less than zero signal companies in the so-
called Empire State Index, which covers New York, northern  New
Jersey , and southern  Connecticut , are cutting back.  As a stagnant labor market and slumping stock values weaken
household confidence and spending, manufacturers may slow
assembly lines to prevent inventories from piling up. Factory
payrolls fell last month for the first time since October,
depriving the recovery of support while unemployment exceeds 9
percent.  “The number one issue for manufacturing is the underlying
strength in  consumer spending ,”  Paul Ballew , chief economist at
Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. in Columbus,  Ohio , said before
the report. “Without stronger consumer spending you’re not
going to get a big spike in activity because durables and other
products are just too important.”  Economists’ estimates ranged from 2 to minus 15. September
marked the fourth consecutive month of contraction for the
region’s factories, the longest stretch since the last
recession.  Data Breakdown  Six of the report’s 10 gauges deteriorated this month. The
Empire State gauge of new factory orders fell to minus 8 from
minus 7.8 last month. A measure of shipments decreased to minus
12.9, the weakest reading since March 2009, from 3. Employment
slumped to minus 5.4, the lowest level in two years, from 3.3.  Today’s report showed an index of prices paid climbed to
32.6 from 28.3 in August, while prices received increased to 8.7
from 2.2.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district regained
some optimism about the future, the report showed. The gauge
measuring the outlook six months from now climbed to 13 from a
more than two-year low of 8.7.  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
reports for clues about the Institute for Supply Management
figures on U.S. manufacturing during the month. The Philadelphia
Fed is scheduled to release its gauge at 10 a.m. today, which
economists expect improved to minus 15 in September from minus
30.7. The national ISM factory data will be released on Oct. 3.  Overstating Weakness  The two regional reports overstated the degree of the
slowdown in manufacturing last month as the national figure
showed factories continued to expand in August while the New
York and Philadelphia measures slumped.  New York-based Colgate-Palmolive Co. is among companies
planning to target business overseas.  “We are talking about a tale of two halves,” Ian Cook,
Colgate’s chief executive officer, said at a Sept. 7 investor
conference. “If you look at the developed markets, lower gross
domestic product growth and getting lower. If you contrast that
with the emerging markets you are seeing robust GDP growth,
large populations, continued growth in the middle class.”  Even so, emerging markets are expanding less quickly than
they did at the beginning of the year, which may curtail
production of U.S.-made goods destined to head overseas.
 Brazil ’s economic growth slowed last quarter the most since its
2009 recession.  China’s economy  grew at a slower pace from April
to June than it did the prior quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  