-- 
Apple’s Patent Win Over HTC to Be Reviewed by U.S. Trade Agency

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-09-16T00:08:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/apple-victory-in-htc-patent-case-to-be-reviewed-by-trade-agency.html
A U.S. trade agency said it will
review a judge’s finding that  HTC Corp. (2498)  infringed two  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
patents, a decision that could lead to a ban of HTC’s Android-
based phones in the country.  An ITC judge  determined  July 15 that HTC’s Android-based
smartphones infringed two Apple patents, while no violation
occurred for two others. The six-member commission will review
infringement and validity on all four patents and whether a
correct interpretation was made on terms within three of the
patents, according to a  notice  yesterday on the ITC’s website.  Apple, the world’s biggest smartphone maker, has accused
Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC of “stealing” its iPhone and iPad
technology and using it in devices that run  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android operating system. HTC,  Asia ’s second-biggest maker of
smartphones, has said that no matter the outcome, there are
“alternate solutions in place” to work around the patents.  The two patents HTC was found to have infringed cover
transmission of multiple types of data and a system that can
identify phone numbers in an e-mail in a way that lets the user
dial or store that number. The two patents that the judge said
weren’t infringed relate to object-oriented programming, a way
of writing and executing software.  HTC is pleased with the decision to review the judge’s
finding “and we are confident in our case,” Adam Emery, an HTC
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. Kristin Huguet, a
spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based Apple, declined to
comment.  The ITC is a quasi-judicial agency in  Washington  than can
block imports of products found to infringe U.S. patents.  Dec. 6 Deadline  Apple had argued in an ITC filing that if the commission
opted to review the patents that were infringed, the agency also
should consider the two that were found to not be infringed.  Apple has another commission complaint pending, filed in
July, that also targets HTC’s phones and Flyer tablets. HTC has
retaliated with three patent-infringement cases against Apple,
one submitted last year, one last month and another last week.  In addition to the review of infringement, validity and
interpretation topics, the commission said it will also consider
whether Apple had fulfilled a requirement that the company show
it was using the inventions in two of the patents. Both HTC and
Apple were told to submit arguments on five additional questions
as well. The ITC is scheduled to complete the investigation by
Dec. 6, according to a  timeline  on its website.  Espoo, Finland-based  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , which had been targeted in
the same ITC complaint, reached a settlement with Apple in June.
 Mountain View , California-based Google wasn’t a party in the
case.  Public Interest  HTC said in an Aug. 25 filing that even if it did infringe
the patents, the commission shouldn’t ban U.S. imports of the
company’s phones. A ban wouldn’t be in the public interest
partly because HTC phones have special features for the hearing
impaired, comply with requirements for “enhanced 911” location
services and provide Emergency Alert Services.  About 36 percent of Android smartphones in use in the U.S.
were made by HTC, according to the filing.  “The exclusion of HTC accused devices from the U.S. market
would not only eliminate the most popular brand of smartphones
using Android, the fastest-growing mobile operating system, but
would also impact the public health, safety, and welfare
concerns of individual U.S. consumers,” HTC said.  Apple said in an Aug. 25 filing there is no shortage of
smartphones on the market and HTC could replace lost Android
sales with phones the company makes using Microsoft Corp.’s
Windows Phone operating system.  The case  is In the Matter Of Certain Personal Data and
Mobile Communications Devices and Related Software, 337-710,
U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  