-- 
‘Arab Spring’ Seen Unlikely to Yield Big Investment Openings

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-16T08:41:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/arab-spring-seen-as-unlikely-to-yield-big-investment-openings.html
The political unrest in North
Africa and the  Middle East  is unlikely to produce significant
investment opportunities for multinational corporations in the
near future, according to three analysts of the region.  “Right now there is a lot of investor fear” about Egypt,
Ian Bremmer, president of the New York-based research firm
Eurasia Group, said yesterday at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit
in  New York .  “You have to rebuild investor confidence,” he said. It
will take “many, many years” for a stable, attractive
investment environment to emerge.  Bremmer, Nobel Prize-winning economist and Columbia
University Professor  Edmund Phelps  and Angus Blair, head of
corporate development at Cairo-based Beltone Financial, were
asked to assess the investment climate as the so-called Arab
Spring generates new leadership and economic orders.  For the moment, “any important move toward much greater
economic development must be grassroots,” Phelps said. “I’d
like to see the U.S. government get behind the idea of
grassroots development in  Egypt .”  That isn’t likely when the U.S. unemployment rate is 9.1
percent and the 2012 presidential election campaign has begun,
Bremmer said.  “There is not a lot of support for getting involved in
this part of the world,” Bremmer said, adding that it is more
likely that Turkey and the Persian Gulf nations will have to
step in with funding for much needed infrastructure development.  Small Entrepreneurs  “How do you encourage small entrepreneurs?” Blair said.
“It is very difficult to create Capitalism 1.0. Hardly anyone
knows the language.”  A big impediment in Egypt, Blair said, is ingrained
corruption.  “If we want to take Egypt and make it another  Turkey , you
have got to get rid of the corruption,” Blair said. “A variety
of factors that caused the revolution have to be addressed. It
will take a long time for this to get back to a new kind of
normal.”  At the same time, Blair said Western nations shouldn’t
overly fear Islamic influence in Egypt because many members of
the Muslim Brotherhood “run small businesses.”  Bremmer said he doesn’t envision “Chavez-style
nationalists sweeping the region,” referring to concerns that
new leaders may seize control of businesses in the manner of
Venezuela’s President Hugo Chavez.  “They are going to have to be open to the international
investment community,” Bremmer said of new leaders. “They
can’t afford to rip up contracts.”  Limited Opportunity  Bremmer said  Tunisia , site of the first revolt against an
authoritarian regime, is a “model of smallness.”  Libya , where dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  was just deposed,
“could surprise,” Blair said, though Bremmer said Libya’s
rebounding oil production will go mainly toward domestic
consumption for up to two years.  It’s too soon to say what’s going to happen politically in
 Syria  or whether there will be investment opportunities when and
if President Bashar al-Assad’s regime falls, all three analysts
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  