-- 
U.S. Stocks Drop as Concern Over Greece Crisis Offsets Fed Stimulus Bets

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-09-20T20:35:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/asian-stocks-rise-from-one-year-low-on-europe-as-new-zealand-dollar-falls.html
U.S. stocks fell, erasing a 1.4
percent rally by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, amid concern
international officials won’t make a decision on Greece’s next
aid payment until October. The yield gap between two- and 30-
year Treasuries narrowed to the smallest level in a year.  The S&P 500 lost 0.2 percent to 1,202.09 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. The difference between two- and 30-year Treasury yields
fell to 304 basis points amid speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will increase holdings of longer maturities. Credit-default
swaps on Italy jumped 25 basis points to a record 514 basis
points after S&P cut the nation’s rating. Oil added 1.4 percent.  Officials from the so-called troika, comprising the
European Union,  European Central Bank  and International Monetary
Fund, plan to return to  Athens  in early October to complete
their review of the Greek economy, the state-run Athens News
Agency reported, without citing sources. Equities rose in  Europe 
and the U.S. earlier as investors speculated the Fed will
announce steps tomorrow to shore up the economy and optimism
grew that Greece will satisfy requirements for aid.  “This is all about Europe, all about  Greece ,” Kevin Caron, market strategist in Florham Park,  New Jersey , at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., said in a telephone interview. His firm has more
than $115 billion in client assets. “There’s concern the next
injection would be delayed. It will take years to get a proper
resolution to it.”  Operation Twist  The Fed may decide to replace short-term Treasuries in its
$1.65 trillion portfolio with long-term bonds, according to 71
percent of 42 surveyed economists. Such a policy is known as
Operation Twist because of the goal of bending the yield curve.
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , who oversees the
world’s biggest bond fund manager, said in Twitter post that a
further rally in Treasuries is “dependent on QE3 expansion of
balance sheet or new ‘language.’”  Raw-material, industrial and energy companies posted the
biggest losses among 10  S&P 500  groups, falling at least 0.6
percent. All 10 industries advanced earlier. Alcoa Inc. posted
the biggest drop in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , retreating
2.9 percent. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rallied 1.8 percent.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield rose 13 basis points to 5.72
percent. Italy was lowered to A from A+ by S&P on concern that
weaker growth and a “fragile” government mean the country won’t
be able to cut the euro-region’s second-largest debt load, S&P
said. The FTSE MIB Index of Italian stocks climbed 1.9 percent.  The franc fell versus 14 of 16 major peers amid speculation
policy makers will weaken the currency further. Turkey’s stocks
and currency climbed as S&P raised its local debt rating for the
nation to investment grade.  Gold, Copper  Gold rose 1.7 percent to $1,809.10 an ounce. The metal may
climb to a record $2,019 an ounce by November 2012, according to
the average response in a survey of attendees at the London
Bullion Market Association’s annual conference in Montreal.  Copper fell, extending a slump to the lowest since
November, as the  International Monetary Fund  lowered its
forecast for the economy in the U.S., the second-biggest
consumer of the metal used in wires and pipes.  The IMF said today that the  U.S. economy  will expand 1.5
percent this year, down from 2.5 percent projected in June.
Housing starts slid 5 percent to a three-month low, Commerce
Department data showed. Copper in New York has tumbled 20
percent from a record in February, entering a bear market, amid
concern that European fiscal woes will damp commodity demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  