-- 
AT&T, U.S. Offer Plan for Confidential Data in T-Mobile Case

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-15T17:05:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/at-t-u-s-agree-on-plan-for-confidential-data-in-t-mobile-case.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  and the U.S.  Justice
Department  agreed on a plan for handling confidential data in
the government’s antitrust lawsuit seeking to block the
company’s purchase of wireless carrier T-Mobile USA Inc.  A filing by the department today in federal court in
Washington sets definitions for what will be deemed confidential
and how that information will be disclosed in the case. AT&T
didn’t oppose the department’s proposed order, the government
said.  The two sides haven’t addressed the issue of how much
access AT&T’s in-house lawyers will have to confidential
materials submitted by “non-parties” in the case, according to
the filing. The non-parties should have a chance to be heard in
court regarding how their confidential information will be
handled, the department said.  “Defendants wish to designate up to 10 (total) in-house
lawyers to have access to confidential information,” the
department said in the filing.  Mike Balmoris, an AT&T spokesman in  Washington , didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone message and an e-mail message
seeking comment on the filing.  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier, would “substantially” reduce
competition.  AT&T, in a filing last week, said the T-Mobile deal is good
for mobile-phone customers because it would lead to better
service, fewer dropped calls and lower prices for consumers.  U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle has set a hearing
for Sept. 21 and told the parties to be prepared to discuss
settlement options.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 