-- 
Latvian Central Bank Keeps Main Rate at 3.5% for 9th Meeting

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-09-15T12:01:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/latvian-central-bank-keeps-main-rate-at-3-5-for-ninth-meeting.html
Latvia’s central bank left its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a ninth meeting as the
economy recovers from a recession that erased about a quarter of
gross domestic product.  Latvijas Banka  held the refinancing rate at 3.5 percent,
Governor Ilmars Rimsevics said today at a press conference in
the capital, Riga.  The economy grew 5.6 percent from a year earlier in the
second quarter, the quickest pace in 3 1/2 years, as
manufacturing and exports increased. GDP may rise more than 4
percent this year, Rimsevics said in a Sept. 9 interview.  “In recent months the trend of abating inflation has
become evident with only the raising of several tax rates
preventing a more rapid drop in prices,” the central bank said
in an e-mailed statement today. “Domestic demand is growing
slowly and represents no risk of rising prices; moreover it is
becoming likely that economic growth in  Latvia  will be slower
next year as demand in external markets drops because of the
global debt crisis.”  Consumer prices rose 4.7 percent in August from a year
earlier. The central bank estimates “a substantial drop in
inflation” next year, the statement said today.  The country turned to a group led by the European
Commission and the  International Monetary Fund  for a 7.5
billion-euro ($10.4 billion) loan in November 2008 and has
implemented austerity measures including tax increases and
spending cuts of more than 16 percent of GDP.  The refinancing rate affects the minimum interest rate on
central bank swaps and repurchase agreements, worth about 75
million lati ($145.7 million) a week. The bank runs a quasi-
currency-board system, where lati in circulation are backed by
foreign currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  