-- 
Latvian Premier May Keep Job After Vote

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-09-15T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/latvian-premier-may-keep-job-as-parties-seek-last-coalition-spot.html
Latvian Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis may retain his position after a parliamentary vote
tomorrow, leaving a nationalist party and one aimed at the
country’s Russian population jostling for a coalition spot.  While Dombrovskis’s Unity bloc is second in polls, it may
join forces with former President Valdis Zatlers’ Reform party,
ranked third, in a coalition that would surpass support for
first-placed Harmony Center, which targets Russian speakers.  The snap election is the result of a referendum called by
Zatlers after corruption probes into lawmakers. A tie-up with
the prime minister would probably require a third partner,
pitting Harmony, which opposes Dombrovskis’s main policies,
against the nationalist All for  Latvia /For Fatherland party,
whose economic agenda is closer to that of the premier.  “Zatlers’ Reform Party and Unity will very quickly form a
bloc that will be at the heart of any future government,”
Daunis Auers, a political scientist at the University of Latvia
in the capital, Riga, said by phone Sept. 14. “I should imagine
they will get behind Dombrovskis.”  Harmony is backed by 20.3 percent of voters, according to a
Sept. 8-9 poll by Latvijas Fakti and commissioned by  Baltic News
Service . Dombrovskis’s Unity party has 13.6 percent, Zatlers’
Reform party has 11.4 percent and the All for Latvia/For
Fatherland party has 6.9 percent. Still, about a third of voters
are undecided, meaning a surprise is possible. The poll didn’t
give a margin of error.  Criminal Probe  Latvia’s parliament was dismissed July 23 after 95 percent
of voters backed Zatlers’s call for new elections. The former
president sought the referendum after the legislature failed to
lift the immunity of a member facing a criminal probe, sparking
an anti-corruption protest in Riga.  Lawmakers later rejected Zatlers’s bid for re-election,
prompting him to form his own party. He has ruled out
cooperating with the Greens and Farmers Union, whose prime
ministerial candidate is on trial for  money laundering , a charge
he denies. Zatlers’s party has 8.4 percent support.  Latvian five-year credit-default swaps, used to speculate
on a borrower’s credit worthiness, rose to 276.6 basis points on
Sept. 14, compared with 214.5 the day before parliament was
dissolved, according to CMA Datavision prices.  Bailout  The Greens and Farmers’s popularity declined as Latvians
blamed them for a recession in which output fell more than a
quarter, unemployment quadrupled, wages shrank and the
government got a 7.5 billion-euro ($10.4 billion) bailout loan.
Dombrovskis, who came to power in March 2009, passed tax
increases and spending cuts equal to 16 percent of gross
domestic product to stabilize the budget and meet the bailout
terms.  GDP increased 5.6 percent from a year earlier in the second
quarter, the quickest in 3 1/2 years, as manufacturing and
exports grew. Dombrovskis’s plans, should he win re-election,
include further austerity as part of efforts to swap the lats
for the euro in 2014.  Harmony, which is vying to become the first Russian-
oriented party since Latvia regained independence from the
 Soviet Union  in the 1990s to join government, opposes those
policies, advocating a slower approach toward euro adoption and
higher social spending.  The All for Latvia/For Fatherland party, whose nationalist
agenda includes increasing the number of classes taught in
Latvian in minority schools, backs trimming the  budget deficit 
to less than 3 percent and joining the euro in 2014.  Polls suggest there is still plenty to play for, with
almost 29 percent of Latvians still undecided. Still, President
Andris Berzins, who must decide who will form the next
government, may favor Dombrovskis’s policies.  “Berzins has talked about the importance of fiscal
discipline in order to facilitate the adoption of the euro,”
Eurasia Group analyst Mujtaba Rahman wrote yesterday in a note.
“He has also reminded politicians that all promises to increase
social expenses will face budgetary limits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  