-- 
Avoiding Indian State Companies on ‘Interference,’ Adenwala Says

-- B y   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-09-15T06:32:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/avoiding-indian-state-companies-on-interference-adenwala-says.html
Paras Adenwala, chief executive
officer at Capital Portfolio Advisors in  Mumbai , which advises
non-resident Indians on investments in the country, comments on
the outlook for Indian stocks.  The BSE India Sensitive Index declined 0.4 percent to
16,649.40 as of 11:49 a.m. local time.  On outlook for markets:  “If Greece exits from the euro, then it’s a big issue. The
problems are much larger than Greece being in the euro or not.
If one strikes at the root of the problem, the huge indebtedness
of  Europe  continues to bog down most investors. Unless we see
some concrete plan to trim debt and bring back growth into those
economies, it’s going to be difficult to have confidence
returning to markets. The contagion is gradually spreading. It
started with  Greece , and then Ireland, Portugal,  Spain  and  Italy 
followed. Now the French banks are getting affected. I won’t be
surprised if it affects German banks too. Given this problem, it
will take a while before a solution can be found. On the
domestic front, the government has come to a standstill as far
as policy reforms are concerned. That is not the way the economy
can function.”  On outlook for  interest rates :  “The  Reserve Bank  of India will raise rates by 25 basis
points. Food inflation will continue to be a problem because of
infrastructural bottlenecks the country faces. You have a huge
amount of food rotting in government warehouses. If such issues
in the food chain are addressed, then food inflation will be
taken care of.”  On investment strategy:  “If investment horizon is within 18 to 24 months, then I
think there’s a huge amount of opportunity in the market.  India 
will grow at least 7 percent and there are enough opportunities
for investors in this market.  ‘‘We like banking, consumer goods, automobiles, realty,
infrastructure and select healthcare stocks. We don’t like the
state-owned sector. Though it has potential, decision-making is
slow because of government interference. It needs more autonomy
from the government.”  On valuations:  “Valuations are not as expensive as they used to be. We
are at a premium compared with other markets and it will always
be the case. I don’t expect India to quote at parity with other
emerging markets.”  Companies on the Sensex trade at 14 times future profits,
within 10 percent of the lowest level since April 2009, and down
from 21.5 times in March 2010. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index
is valued at a 9.9 multiple.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  