-- 
Europe May Approve EFSF Expansion by October, Frankel Says

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-09-15T09:08:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/lawmakers-may-approve-efsf-expansion-by-october-frankel-says.html
Europe ’s parliaments may approve
the proposed expansion of the European Financial Stability
Facility’s powers by early October, Chief Financial Officer
Christophe Frankel said.  “Those amendments are currently being validated by the
parliaments of the euro-area member states and we anticipate
that this could be done at early October at the latest,”
Frankel said in a speech in Singapore today. The  EFSF  probably
won’t issue long-term bonds before the first week of October,
and market conditions will be a determinant, he told reporters
later.  European governments aim to ratify a July 21 agreement to
bolster the euro region’s bailout fund and extend a second
rescue to  Greece . French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , facing international calls to step up
efforts to fight the region’s debt crisis, said yesterday they
are “convinced” Greece will stay in the euro area.  Further decisions are needed to see if the EFSF will be
involved in the second bailout of Greece, Frankel said.  The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.3770 at 10:07 a.m. in
 London  from $1.3755 in  New York  yesterday.  Frankel said he’s “confident” the EFSF’s scheduled bond
sales will be successful and that Asia will be “very active”
in them. He said he’s meeting local investors, including some
who are “big and very well known,” declining to name them.  Long-Term Investors  “What will be different from what we have done until now
is that probably we will address ourselves to more long-term
investors, because probably we will try to expand our curve for
issues longer than 10 years, to 30 years potentially,” he said.  The EFSF is studying how to harmonize bond purchases with
the  European Central Bank , Frankel said. Ireland is “back on
track” and restoring its competitive edge, and the Portugal
program is on track, he said.  The European Central Bank has been in the vanguard of the
battle against the euro-region’s debt crisis, and speculation of
a Greek default has heaped pressure on the ECB to step up its
bond buying and reverse interest-rate increases.  European leaders have agreed to expand the powers of the
440 billion-euro ($604 billion) EFSF. The measures would enable
the facility to buy government debt in secondary markets, help
troubled banks and offer credit lines to governments. The
proposals have to be ratified by national parliaments first.  The fund won’t participate in secondary markets for its own
debt and will focus only on sovereigns, Frankel said in response
to audience questions after the speech. This puts the fund in
competition with the ECB.  ‘Organized or Harmonized’  “Whether it will have to be organized or harmonized with
the ECB is one of the major issues we are still working on,” he
said. Questions include “how to decide to enter into buying for
certain countries” and “how do we find liquidity to buy such
bonds.”  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  indicated limits yesterday to
what his nation will do to counter Europe’s woes. He said
countries must “put their own houses in order,” with developed
nations cutting deficits and creating jobs rather than relying
on  China  to bail out the world economy.  Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega said this week
that he would meet with finance officials from emerging markets
including Russia, India and China at the International Monetary
Fund meetings in  Washington  next week to discuss ways to help
Europe overcome its debt crisis.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will travel to
 Poland  tomorrow to participate in a meeting of European
government finance officials.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  