-- 
Tax-Break End Will Send Drilling Elsewhere, U.S. Oil Group Says

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-09-15T19:18:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/tax-break-end-will-send-drilling-elsewhere-u-s-oil-group-says.html
The  American Petroleum Institute  is
telling U.S. lawmakers trying to save $1.5 trillion that a
repeal of tax breaks would lead oil companies to drill outside
the U.S.  “Our message is, you’ve got a choice here,” Marty Durbin,
executive vice president of the Washington-based association,
said today on a conference call with reporters. The organization
represents more than 480 members, including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   Raising taxes will cost about 48,000 jobs by 2020 and lower
government revenue by $29 billion as companies choose to drill
elsewhere, according to the group.  Expanding domestic oil and gas production would create more
than $127 billion in revenue for the U.S. and 1.1 million jobs
over the same time period, according to a study the petroleum
group commissioned from Edinburgh-based Wood Mackenzie Ltd.  A 12-member congressional supercommittee is trying to find
federal budget savings over 10 years as part of the compromise
on raising the nation’s debt ceiling. President  Barack Obama ’s
$447 billion jobs package includes an end to about $40 billion
in oil and gas tax benefits. The bill would limit the industry’s
ability to claim domestic manufacturing deductions for drilling.  The petroleum group sent a letter Sept. 12 to the
supercommittee’s six Democrats and six Republicans, urging them
to keep the tax breaks.  Durbin said the group is also asking supporters  to contact
members of Congress and will continue an advertising effort
against the administration’s tax proposals.  Obama has said oil companies can afford to give up tax
breaks, given the billions they make each quarter in profit.  “We’ve got to decide what our priorities are,” he said as
he released the legislative text Sept. 12. “Do we keep tax
loopholes for  oil companies  -- or do we put teachers back to
work?”  Senate Republicans, encouraged by oil companies, defeated
Democratic efforts in May to repeal about $21 billion in oil
breaks over 10 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  