-- 
BA Pilots May Win Dispute Over Holiday Pay, EU Court Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-09-15T15:57:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/ba-pilots-may-partly-win-dispute-over-holiday-pay-eu-court-says.html
British Airways pilots may partly
win a challenge over how their vacation pay is calculated, the
European Union’s highest court said.  The remuneration paid to pilots during their annual leave
must include a supplementary payment for the time spent flying
because it is linked to the performance of their tasks, the EU
Court of Justice said in a ruling in Luxembourg today.  The ruling on pilot remuneration at the carrier, whose
parent International Consolidated Airlines Group SA was formed
from the January merger between BA and  Spain ’s Iberia, comes
after the company sought to resolve its outstanding labor
issues. BA’s cabin crew in June backed a deal with management to
resolve a two-year dispute over pay.  Pilots in today’s case claim BA unlawfully reduced their
vacation pay. Under EU law, the carrier needs to pay flight
crews more than their basic salary while they are on vacation
because in addition to their normal wage, pilots receive
allowances such as a “flying pay supplement” while they are
working, the pilots claim.  The U.K. Supreme Court in  London  referred the case to the
EU tribunal in April 2010, seeking guidance on how to interpret
the meaning of “paid annual leave” under the region’s rules.  The Court of Justice today said there are still open
questions to be reviewed by the U.K. courts, which must make the
final decision in the case.  Total Remuneration  The EU judges said that the “components of the worker’s
total remuneration” such as “costs connected with the time
that pilots have to spend away from base -- need not be taken
into account in the calculation of the payment to be made during
annual leave.”  British Airways said in a statement that it is considering
the EU court ruling and will wait for a final decision from the
U.K. Supreme Court.  The case, which is being supported by the British Airline
Pilots’ Association, has implications for thousands of flying
staff and flight attendants across the airline sector, BALPA
said in a  statement  last year. On average the pilots get 600
pounds ($948) less in pay during their four weeks of statutory
vacation than when at work, the union said.  The pilot’s union said the ruling was a “landmark”
victory and that it will seek similar holiday pay arrangements
from other airlines.  “The calculation of holiday pay was a clear example of
pilots being short-changed by their employers,” Jim McAuslan,
general secretary of the British Airline Pilots’ Association,
said in an e-mailed statement. “We always believed that under
European working time rules introduced in 2004 pilots should be
treated like other working people in the UK and should receive
their proper pay during holidays. This should not be restricted
to basic salary but should include allowances.”  The case is: C-155/10, Williams and others v. British
Airways Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  