-- 
Bangladesh to Give New Bank Licenses for First Time in a Decade

-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 
2011-09-15T08:04:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/bangladesh-to-give-new-bank-licenses-for-first-time-in-a-decade.html
Bangladesh  plans to offer new
banking licenses for the first time in a decade to boost lending
and spur economic growth in the South Asian nation.  Banks will need to meet a minimum capital requirement of 4
billion taka ($53 million), double the requirement for banks set
up in 2001, the central bank said on its  website . New banks will
also have to sell shares within three years and open one branch
in a rural area for each one they start in cities, according to
the rules.  Bangladesh, which forecasts its economy to expand at a
record 8 percent in the next three years, is emulating neighbor
 India  in allowing new banks to help fuel the economy. Credit is
expanding at an average 20 percent annually in Bangladesh, while
deposits are growing at 25 percent, Governor Atiur Rahman said.  “Our economy has doubled over the last ten years, so we
need more banks to cope with the economy,” Rahman said in an
interview from Dhaka today. “We are keenly following India’s
banking practices.”  India’s central bank last month said it may give licenses
to new private lenders, who will have to open at least one in
four branches in rural areas that have a population of no more
than 9,999 people. Companies including  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  and
billionaire Anil Ambani’s Reliance ADA Group have expressed
interest in operating in the Indian market where credit is
forecast to expand 18 percent in the year to March 31.  BRAC Bank Ltd. (BRAC)  was the last lender to start operations in
Bangladesh in 2001. Overseas banks will also be allowed to
partner with local lenders for the licenses, Rahman said today.  BRAC Bank gained 0.3 percent to 486 taka at 12:17 p.m. in
Dhaka.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  