-- 
Bank of America Sells Back Stake in HCA for $1.5 Billion Sending Shares Up

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-09-15T21:17:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/bank-of-america-sells-hca-stake-back-to-company-for-1-5-billion.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the lender
that’s divesting assets to raise capital, agreed to sell 80.8
million shares of HCA Holdings Inc. back to the health-care
company for $1.5 billion. HCA’s stock jumped 12 percent.  The agreement calls for a price of $18.61 a share,
yesterday’s closing price, according to a statement today from
HCA, the largest U.S. hospital operator. The shares equal a 15.6
percent stake in HCA, the Nashville, Tennessee-based firm said.  “It’s consistent with our strategy of focusing on our core
businesses, building liquidity and strengthening the balance
sheet,” said  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman.
“Our customers do not choose to do business with us because we
have an investment in a health-care provider.”  Brian T. Moynihan , chief executive officer of the biggest
U.S. lender by assets, has sold at least $40 billion of assets
and preferred shares ahead of stricter international rules on
capital levels. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm’s
shares have declined by more than 45 percent this year on
concern that costs from soured mortgages would force Moynihan to
sell new stock to raise capital.  Merrill Lynch & Co., the securities firm acquired by Bank
of America in 2009, made the original private-equity investment
in HCA for about $1 billion in 2006, Dubrowski said. Counting
the sale announced today, dividends and an initial public
offering, the bank had $3 billion in proceeds from that
investment, he said.  ‘No Secret’  “We’ve made no secret that we’re not long-term players in
the private-equity field,” Dubrowksi said. Ed Fishbough, an HCA
spokesman, wouldn’t comment on who initiated the repurchase.  The sale reduces assets that will be penalized under rules
set by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , Dubrowski
said. Last month, Bank of America agreed to sell about half its
stake in China Construction Bank Corp. for a $3.3 billion gain.  Bank of America rose 28 cents, or 4 percent, to $7.33 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. HCA
surged $2.23 to $20.84.  The repurchase of shares presented an opportunity for HCA
to boost earnings, said  Art Henderson , an analyst at Jefferies &
Co. in Nashville,  Tennessee . He said the move should add about
40 cents a share to earnings on an annualized basis, with 10 to
11 cents of that realized in the second half of the year.  “This was a more accretive opportunity than going out and
making an acquisition,” Henderson said in a phone interview.
“It also gives management a chance to send a signal to the
market that the selloff in the stock has been overdone.”  HCA’s Shares  Shares of HCA have been pummeled since June on investor
concern over a decline in hospital revenue caused by the
economic slump and cuts in Medicare and Medicaid payments. The
company reached a high for the year on June 9 and has dropped 47
percent since then through yesterday’s close.  HCA’s IPO in March raised $3.79 billion, the largest amount
for a private equity deal. KKR & Co., Bain Capital LLC and Bank
of America were investors. Bank of America’s shares were
outstanding from the original $33 billion leveraged buyout in
2006. Including debt, it was the biggest buyout at the time.  The transaction announced today is expected to be completed
on Sept. 21, HCA said. Three HCA board members that were
designated by Bank of America will step down, the hospital
operator said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  