-- 
Bank Costs to Convert Euro Payments to Dollars Fall on ECB Plan

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-09-15T15:35:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/bank-costs-to-convert-euro-payments-to-dollars-fall-on-ecb-plan.html
The premium European banks pay to
borrow in dollars through the swaps markets fell after the
 European Central Bank  said it will offer lenders in the region
U.S. currency to ensure they have enough through year-end.  The cost of converting euro-based payments into dollars, as
measured by the three-month cross-currency  basis swap , dropped
18.25 basis points to 80.25 basis points below the euro
interbank offered rate, or Euribor, at 4:20 p.m. in London,
indicating a lower premium to buy the greenback, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The one-year basis swap fell seven
basis points to 63.80 basis points.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said today that it will coordinate
with the  Federal Reserve  and other central banks to conduct
three dollar liquidity-providing operations with a maturity of
approximately three months. The loans are in addition to the
bank’s regular seven-day dollar offerings and will be conducted
as fixed-rate tenders with full allotment, the bank said. It
will offer the loans on Oct. 12, Nov. 9 and Dec. 7.  “The dollar funding situation has caused headaches for
some banks,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at
Commerzbank AG based in London. “The ECB’s measures help ease
those problems. It will be interesting to see if there is more
to come.”  Basis swaps allow banks to borrow in one currency, while
simultaneously lending in another.  ECB Loans  The ECB’s measure is a “really big deal,” according to
Dartmouth College Professor David Blanchflower. “The fact that
these central banks have acted together and said we’ll backstop
banks is really big news,” Blanchflower, a former member of the
Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee, said today at the
Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in  New York .  A gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend to each other in
 Europe  fell for a third day as Germany and France said they saw
a future for  Greece  as part of the euro region.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between three-month
Euribor and overnight indexed swaps, was at 77 basis points,
from 79.6 yesterday and 84.6 basis points on Sept. 12, which was
the highest level since March 2009.  Two banks this week borrowed dollars from the ECB in its
seven-day operation, a sign they are finding it difficult to
access the U.S. currency in markets as Europe’s debt crisis
makes financial institutions more wary of lending. The ECB
yesterday allotted $575 million in its seven-day dollar
operation, without naming the banks it lent to.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  