-- 
Bank Values for Home-Equity Loans Said to Face U.S. Scrutiny

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d ,   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-09-15T14:14:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/bank-values-for-home-equity-loans-said-to-face-u-s-scrutiny.html
U.S. regulators are examining
whether the nation’s home lenders have accurately valued $845
billion of home-equity and other second-lien mortgages,
according to seven people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The  Federal Reserve  and the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency have teams checking on default risks at the biggest
banks and whether they’ve set aside enough reserves to cover the
loans, according to the people. They spoke on condition of
anonymity because the review is continuing and examinations
aren’t public.  A slowing economy has cast doubt on the value of second
mortgages, whose collateral can be wiped out when  home prices 
decline. The S&P/Case-Shiller index covering 20 U.S. cities has
dropped 32 percent from its July 2006 peak, and the jobless
rate, stuck above 9 percent, makes it harder for borrowers to
keep up with payments.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  are among the largest holders of second liens.  “If home prices continue to decline and the homes get more
and more underwater and you have layoffs, it becomes an ever-
bigger issue,” said  Laurie Goodman , a senior managing director
at Amherst Securities Group LP in New York.  Second mortgages allow borrowers to get extra cash by using
the equity in their home as collateral for a loan. When the
borrower stops paying or goes bankrupt, the holder of the
primary mortgage has first claim on the assets. If the home’s
value has fallen since the loan was made, the holder of the
second mortgage may be left with little or no collateral to
cover losses.  Object of Interest  Regulators are focusing on individual loans where borrowers
are already overdue on their first mortgages, or where the value
of the home has dropped below the size of the loans, according
to the people. Examiners are requiring banks to conduct a
special impairment analysis to determine the risks of steep
losses on the loans, even if borrowers are current on payments,
said two people with knowledge of the process. Such an analysis
may result in a demand for more reserves, they said.  The Fed may use the results of the examination to help
evaluate capital planning and future dividends at the largest
lenders, one person said. With banks cutting reserves as overall
defaults decrease, regulators want to ensure the firms still
have enough to cover second liens that go sour, the person said.  “For a regulator, any time there’s an asset class that
experiences a significant change, there’s a concern that there
could be a decline in value that hasn’t been recognized by every
single financial institution,” said  Moshe Orenbuch , an analyst
with Credit Suisse AG.  Popular Loans  Second mortgages soared in popularity during the housing
bubble as homeowners sought to tap growing equity values. The
balance of home-equity loans and other second mortgages held by
lenders rose from $327.6 billion in 2000 to a peak of $1.14
trillion in 2007, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a trade
publication. The total fell to $845.3 billion in the first
quarter of 2011.  Home-equity lines of credit made up the largest second-lien
category with unpaid balances of $666.5 billion in the first
quarter, the data show.  Investors are skeptical about the true worth of assets held
by U.S. lenders, with the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  selling at about 75
percent of stated book value for the 24 companies represented.
Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , has been
pummeled by speculation that it needed a bigger capital cushion
to protect against unexpected losses. The stock has lost almost
50 percent this year and sells for about a third of book value.  Bank Rankings  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, holds
the largest second-lien portfolio, with $129.3 billion in unpaid
balances, according to first-quarter data from Inside Mortgage
Finance. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo is second with $114.4
billion, and New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co. is third, with
$101.6 billion. New York’s  Citigroup Inc. (C)  had $46 billion and
 PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , based in Pittsburgh, had
$30.1 billion. Spokesmen for the lenders declined to comment on
the examination.  John Walsh , the acting comptroller, said in testimony
before the Senate Banking Committee last December that examiners
were looking into situations where banks had resisted offering
loan modifications to distressed homeowners on first mortgages
where the bank also held a second mortgage. Modifying the first
loan could include an acknowledgement that that the home’s value
had dropped, forcing the lender to take a loss or complete
write-off of the second mortgage.  First and Second  “A conflict of interest could arise if the second-lien
holder were trying to overstate the second lien’s carrying value
(and under-allocate loan-loss reserves) for a troubled
borrower,” Walsh said. The comptroller had required that banks
take all such risks into consideration in their valuations, even
if the second mortgages are performing, Walsh said.  The  American Bankers Association  reported  delinquent 
closed-end home-equity loans rose to 4.12 percent in the first
quarter from 4.05 percent in 2010’s final quarter. For open-end
home-equity lines of credit, delinquencies rose to 1.8 percent
from 1.73 percent. Closed-end loans are for a fixed amount with
a fixed repayment period. Open-end loans come with a fixed
amount of available credit, with the actual balance fluctuating
based on usage.  Why They Pay  Regulators and lawmakers have been sounding alarms since at
least 2009 about the value of second mortgages. The Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. sent a letter to banks in August 2009
asking them to consider boosting reserves for second liens,
citing the impact of overdue first mortgages.  Barney Frank , then
the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, sent a
letter to banks in March 2010 urging them to recognize more
losses because “large numbers of these second liens have no
real economic value.”  Bankers have responded that American borrowers tend to meet
their obligations and pay their bills as long as they are able,
regardless of whether the value of their homes has declined.
Customers keep paying because they want to keep access to the
account and draw on the unused portion of their credit lines,
according to a paper last December by staff members of the
 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia .  The study found that 31 percent of borrowers who were 90
days or more in default on first mortgages remained current on
their second liens, and 20 percent of borrowers in foreclosure
on first mortgages still made payments on their seconds.  Higher Risk  Even if second-lien payments are current, the delinquency
on the first loan means the  default risk  has grown and banks may
need to set aside more reserves, two of the people said.  The conflict between first and second mortgages may become
more acute as banks resume foreclosures, said  Guy Cecala ,
publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance. Lenders halted or slowed
the process after accusations that homes had been seized using
legal shortcuts and forged documents. Those delays are ending,
Cecala said.  Default notices sent to overdue U.S. homeowners surged 33
percent in August from the previous month, and total foreclosure
filings increased 7 percent from a four-year low, according to a
report today from RealtyTrac Inc., the Irvine, California-based
data seller.  “When you see those foreclosures pick up, which you will,
then the losses on the seconds will really start to come in,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Sterngold in  New York  at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net .
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  