-- 
Referees Accused of Identity Theft Conspiracy to Evade Taxes

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-09-16T02:16:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/basketball-referees-stole-identities-to-evade-taxes-u-s-says.html
Former basketball referees at  New
York ’s  Chelsea Piers sports complex  were charged with using
stolen identities, including names of players on a youth sports
team, to evade taxes.  Referees at Chelsea Piers on  Manhattan ’s West Side are paid
about $40 per game and the organization is required to report to
the  Internal Revenue Service  any referee’s annual payments of
more than $600, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in an
e-mailed statement.  Three former referees and a program manager were charged
with providing Chelsea Piers false tax forms that used
identities of players from a youth baseball team and names from
a state compensation board and a local Chamber of Commerce to
ensure that the income reported in their own names didn’t exceed
$600 a year, according to the statement.  When Chelsea Piers issued checks payable to the stolen
names, a former referee and his co-conspirators cashed or
deposited them with fraudulent endorsements, according to the
statement.  Peter Iulo, 53, a former referee from  Brooklyn , and 44-
year-old James Murray of Yonkers, who oversaw the basketball
program, were charged today with conspiracy to evade taxes and
conspiracy to commit  identity theft , according to the statement.  Gerard Fahy, 57, of Yonkers, and Robert Spence, 57, of
Bayside, pleaded guilty yesterday to their participation in the
scheme, according to Bharara. Iulo, Fahy and Spence were also
charged with  tax evasion , the U.S. Attorney said.  $10,000 Earnings  In the statement Bharara cited the example of Spence, who
Bharara claims earned more than $10,000 in 2004 for officiating
games at Chelsea Piers, though records from the complex and the
Internal Revenue Service show he only received $608.  The defendants face as many as 15 years in prison,
according to the statement.  Murray is “extremely distressed that he has been
charged,” his lawyer, Marjorie Peerce, said in an interview.  “He has devoted his life to basketball, most importantly
coaching children and developing their love for the game,” she
said. “He will continue to do so while he confronts these
issues in court.”  Pat Pileggi, a lawyer representing Iulo, Robert LaRusso, a
lawyer representing Spence, and Mike Romano, an attorney for
Fahy, didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment after
regular business hours.  The case is U.S. v. Fahy, 11-cr-00790, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Foley Square ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  