-- 
Baucus Urges Minimizing Costs in Retirement Savings Proposals

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-09-15T18:16:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/baucus-urges-minimizing-costs-in-retirement-savings-proposals.html
Proposals seeking to increase
workers’ retirement savings by making adjustments to the U.S.
tax code should weigh the costs of such shifts, Senate Finance
Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  said in a hearing held by the
panel in  Washington .  Baucus said today that, while there’s a pressing need to
increase retirement savings, most of the proposals would cost
the Treasury in forgone  tax revenue .  “That’s not where this Congress is today,” said Baucus,
noting pressures to reduce the deficit and lower tax rates. “We
need to look for ways to do more with less.”  Baucus is also member of the supercommittee charged with
identifying $1.5 trillion in deficit reduction.  The retirement security experts who spoke before the panel
offered conflicting descriptions of the state of the nation’s
private retirement system.  A trade group representing retirement planning
professionals said the current system works well for millions of
Americans and cautioned against making wholesale changes.  Modest Changes  “Modest changes can and should be made to expand coverage,
but care should be taken to preserve and enhance the basic
framework of the current incentives that motivate employers to
sponsor  retirement plans ,” said Judy Miller, chief of actuarial
issues and director of retirement policy for  the American
Society of Pension Professionals and Actuaries , a Washington-
based trade group.  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the top Republican on the
panel, endorsed that view, pointing out that Congress has
bolstered its support for the current regime of tax-advantaged
retirement savings.  “We already made this policy call,” Hatch said.  A bleaker outlook was offered by Karen Friedman, policy
director of the  Pension Rights Center , a Washington-based
consumer advocacy group.  Friedman told lawmakers that while “401(k) plans can work
as supplemental savings plans, they do not work well as the
primary retirement vehicle for most Americans.”  Making Money Last  “They put all the risks onto individuals who then have to
decide whether to participate, how much to contribute, what to
invest in, and then figure out how to make the money last
through retirement,” Friedman said.  Friedman said the system needs an overhaul so that low and
moderate-income workers can save more.  Among the ideas discussed was a proposal by William Gale,
director of the retirement security project at the non-partisan
 Brookings Institution , to shift from offering  tax deductions  for
retirement savings to tax credits. The latter would be deposited
directly in workers’ retirement accounts. It would offer more
benefits to low and middle-income workers, who are the most at
risk of inadequate retirement savings, Gale said.  Jack Vanderhei, research director at the non-partisan
 Employee Benefit Research Institute  in Washington, said a credit
would run the risk of reducing employer incentives to offer
retirement savings benefits. Employers may decide “they’d be
more than happy to let the worker have the credit and direct
their resources to other purposes,” Vanderhei said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  