-- 
Belgian Negotiators Clear Key Hurdle in 15-Month Talks to Form Government

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-09-15T09:14:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/belgian-coalition-talks-clear-hurdle-negotiations-continue-1-.html
Belgian coalition negotiators
agreed to split the voting district encompassing the bilingual
capital, removing the biggest obstacle to political stability in
the country for the past six years and sending its bonds higher.  “Even as there remains much work to be done, clearing the
hurdle of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde constitutes an important
step,” Elio Di Rupo, the president of  Belgium ’s French-speaking
Socialist Party, said today in a statement.  The eight-party talks will resume at 2 p.m. in Brussels and
focus on the distribution of tax receipts and transfer of
additional powers to the regions, Di Rupo said. The proposed
split means that French speakers living in 29 Flemish suburbs
will lose the right to vote for French-speaking candidates from
the Brussels capital.  The breakthrough is a success for Di Rupo, 60, after the
dispute highlighted the rift between Dutch- and French-speaking
parties and provoked the collapse of the previous government led
by Yves Leterme. The inability to form a government since the
June 2010 national election has led Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings to assign a negative outlook to the country’s debt,
currently ranked the second-highest investment grade, and
inflated Belgian borrowing costs relative to the six higher-
rated euro-area nations.  Disputed District  Belgian  government bonds  rallied following the agreement.
The 4.25 percent securities due September 2021 gained 0.63, or
6.3 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 102.380 as of 11 a.m.
in Brussels for a yield of 3.97 percent. The extra yield
investors demand to hold the 10-year bonds rather than German
notes of similar maturity fell 9 basis points to 208 basis
points.  The disputed district, which encompasses both the bilingual
capital and 35 surrounding Flemish municipalities, has been an
anomaly since the country switched to provincial voting because
it stretches over two separate regions and isn’t aligned to the
provincial borders like all other voting districts. Previous
attempts to negotiate a split, first by former Prime Minister
 Guy Verhofstadt  in 2005 and later by Leterme, failed.  Di Rupo managed to break a 15-month deadlock in coalition
talks after urging the eight parties involved to make a “last
effort,” saying the future of the country was at stake. Today’s
agreement increases his chances of becoming Belgium’s first
prime minister from the southern French-speaking region of
Wallonia since Edmond Leburton in 1974.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  