-- 
Ben Stiller’s Haiti Charity Inspires $10.5 Million Art Auction

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-09-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/ben-stiller-david-zwirner-artists-help-haiti-with-10-5-million-auction.html
When actor  Ben Stiller  approached
David Zwirner to help him raise money for Haiti through a
charity auction, the  art dealer  proposed an evening sale at one
of the big auction houses.  “This is the environment where people are conditioned to
single out major works and stretch for them,” said Zwirner in
an interview at his Chelsea gallery in  Manhattan .  Together, Zwirner and Stiller -- whose Stiller Foundation
provides educational opportunities for children worldwide and
has been helping build schools in Haiti -- set up a stand-alone
charity,  Artists for Haiti .  Christie’s International  agreed to waive all its fees and
commissions. The cause is dear to  Francois Pinault , the French
billionaire who owns the auction house, said Amy Cappellazzo,
Christie’s chairman of postwar and contemporary development.  “We knew it would be an extraordinary event and we had a
chance to really make a difference,” she said. The sale, on
Sept. 22 in  New York , is expected to bring in between $7.5
million and $10.5 million, according to Zwirner.  With Christie’s on board, Zwirner secured large-format
works by big names, people like  Jeff Koons , James Rosenquist,
 Jasper Johns , Neo Rauch and  Cindy Sherman .  “They got amazing things,” said artist Chuck Close, who
agreed to donate a 2007 screen-print self-portrait, with an
estimate of $70,000 to $100,000. “Who didn’t weep at the sight
of Haiti after the earthquake?”  Artists for Haiti will donate the proceeds from the sale to
various charities operating in the country, including
 Architecture for Humanity ,  Partners in Health  and Sean Penn’s
 J/P HRO .  ‘A Huge Change’  “For very little you can make a huge change,” said
Zwirner, who visited Haiti with Stiller in January. “We take
for granted that we can put our children in a good school, a
decent school, a school that doesn’t exist there. There are all
these kids running around. How is it going to change unless they
go back to school?”  Rosenquist’s memories of  Haiti  go back to 1975. “It was a
horrible place. Babies were starving in the streets. At a voodoo
ceremony, a beautiful girl bit a head off a pigeon.”  “I want the money to go to people who really need it,” he
added. His 6-by-11-foot canvas “The Richest Person Gazing at
the Universe Through a Hubcap” might fetch as much as $800,000.  Top Lot  The sale’s top lot is Dan Flavin’s 1967 light sculpture
“Monument for V. Tatlin,” with a presale estimate of as much
as $1.2 million for its seven cool-white fluorescent tubes.  Koons donated a sleek silhouette of a stainless-steel
bikini bottom silkscreened with images of a desert and a
waterfall. Its presale price range is $500,000 to $700,000.  Leipzig-based Rauch gave a 10-by-7-foot canvas, “Chor,”
estimated to sell for $600,000 to $800,000. Rich in purple, it
depicts a mysterious choir scene in the woods.  “This painting was meant to be in my upcoming show,” said
Zwirner, referring to his Rauch  exhibition  in November. “So
that one hurts a little bit.”  After a special exhibition at the  David Zwirner  gallery,
the works will go on view at Christie’s starting Sept. 16.  A Sept. 23 gala for the Stiller Foundation and honoring the
artists will be co-hosted by Stiller, Zwirner and another Haiti
supporter,  Bill Clinton .  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 