-- 
Berlusconi Popularity Hits New Low, Would Lose Vote, Poll Shows

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-09-15T11:41:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/berlusconi-popularity-hits-new-low-would-lose-vote-poll-shows.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s popularity fell to a record low as he pushed
through austerity measures, according to a poll that also showed
his ruling coalition would lose power if elections were held
today.  Confidence in the billionaire premier fell five percentage
points to 24 percent from the previous survey in June, Rome-
based  IPR Marketing  said today. That’s the lowest since he took
office in 2008. If elections were held now, 44 percent of
Italians said they’d vote for the opposition, up from 42.5
percent, while support for the ruling parties declined to 37.5
percent from 39 percent.  The popularity “of both the premier and his government was
strongly hit by Parliament’s return to work and the storm from
the financial markets and crisis that forced the passage of
austerity measures,” IPR said in an e-mailed statement.  Berlusconi’s government, scrambling to stem a surge in
Italian borrowing costs, won final parliamentary approval
yesterday for its second austerity plan since July, a 54
billion-euro ($75 billion) package of spending cuts and tax
increases aimed at convincing investors that the nation can
avert further contagion from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The plan, passed to secure support for Italian bonds by the
 European Central Bank , has sparked protests at home. Fifty-eight
percent of employees took part in a general strike on Sept. 6
that attracted as many as a million people across  Italy ,
according to CGIL, the nation’s biggest labor union.  Weakening Grip  Berlusconi, 74, who also faces four trials for allegations
including corruption and paying for sex with a minor, suffered
two electoral setbacks in June. Voters passed four referendum
measures against legislation by his government, and his center-
right coalition lost mayoral races in the key cities of Naples,
Turin and Milan, the premier’s hometown.  Forty-four percent of Italians would prefer to have a
nonpartisan “technocratic” government to steer the country
through the financial crisis, the IPR poll showed. Berlusconi
has repeatedly rejected stepping down, vowing to see out the end
of his term in 2013.  The poll for Repubblica newspaper surveyed 1,000 adults by
telephone on Sept. 13. No margin of error was given.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  