-- 
Billionaire Cisneros Seeking to Buy Spanish Assets Amid Crisis

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-09-15T21:34:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/billionaire-cisneros-looking-to-buy-cheap-spanish-assets-amid-debt-crisis.html
Venezuelan billionaire Gustavo Cisneros said he’s looking to buy Spanish companies as the
European debt crisis drives down asset valuations.  Cisneros, the chairman of Cisneros Group of Companies, said
he’s considering purchasing exporters, manufacturers and media
companies in  Spain , where he sees “immense opportunities.”  “I’ve been wanting to do a lot of things in Spain for a
long time, but the price has been too high,” Cisneros, 66, said
yesterday at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in  New York  tied to
the magazine’s ranking of the most influential leaders in global
markets, finance, business and government. As the crisis
deepened, Cisneros said he decided to “look at Spain again.
It’s a natural market for us. These are good companies,
especially companies that export to Latin America.”  Spain’s  IBEX 35 Index (IBEX)  of stocks dropped 22 percent in the
past 12 months as concerns mounted that  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis was cutting off banks’ access to wholesale capital
markets. Spain, the euro region’s fourth-largest economy, has a
21 percent unemployment rate and posted a  budget deficit  equal
to 9.2 percent of gross domestic product last year, the region’s
highest after Greece and Ireland.  “Spain is going to be fine. We know Spain quite a bit and
we can relate to the culture very well,” Cisneros said. “Media
obviously in Spain for us would be a natural, but I don’t
discard manufacturing companies. I’m not interested in
banking.”  The Cisneros Group, which took in $1.5 billion of revenue
in 2010 and has its headquarters in Miami, provides Univision,
the leading Spanish-language broadcaster in the U.S., with 40
percent of its content.  Chinese Investment  Cisneros said Chinese companies are outdoing U.S.
competitors in partnering with Latin American firms as leaders
in the world’s fastest growing major emerging economy seek to
expand their presence in the region.  China  is making inroads into  Latin America ’s agricultural,
infrastructure and mining industries because its foreign policy
has emphasized economic cooperation and outreach to the region.
It’s more difficult to get U.S. companies “excited about
going” to Latin America, he said.  “China has a foreign policy which is directed toward
cooperation with business, and the government has directed that
toward investment in Latin America,” Cisneros said. “In the
 United States , the private sector forgot about Latin America
investment.”  Joint Ventures  Cisneros is setting up joint ventures with Chinese banks to
carry out investment in Latin American commodities industries.
China accounts for 9 percent of foreign direct investment in
Latin America, trailing only the U.S. and Holland, according to
the  United Nations ’ Economic Commission for Latin America and
the Caribbean.  Cisneros, who first traveled to China in the 1980s, is
expanding into deals with the Chinese after shedding beverage
and consumer-goods companies and America Online Latin America
since the early 1990s to focus on his  Venevision  television
network.  Cisneros inherited the company from his father in 1970 and
took over a fortune built by expanding Venevision and
representing U.S. brands such as Studebaker, PepsiCo and Burger
King in  Venezuela . Cisneros and his family are worth $4.2
billion, according to Forbes magazine. The 58-year-old company
employs about 8,000 workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  