-- 
Bini Smaghi Says ECB ’Fully Aware’ of Bond-Purchase Risks

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-09-15T09:52:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/bini-smaghi-says-ecb-fully-aware-of-risks-in-bond-purchases.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said policy makers are “fully
aware” of the risks related to their bond purchases and that
none of their decisions have compromised the bank’s ability to
safeguard  price stability .  “Anyone who thinks that the ECB has been excessively
active on the market, for example on the market for  government
securities , or the opposite, must first of all demonstrate that
such actions have not enabled the ECB to achieve its goal,”
Bini Smaghi said in a speech in Rome today. “We are fully aware
of the risks related to a possible excess of activism on the one
hand and benign neglect on the other.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB, which raised  interest rates  twice
this year to curb price pressures, was forced to step up bond
purchases last month as  Europe ’s debt crisis intensified. It is
also providing banks with unlimited liquidity in its refinancing
operations. Inflation in the 17-nation euro region will slow to
1.7 percent next year from 2.6 percent this year, the latest ECB
forecasts show.  Some economists including  Nouriel Roubini  have accused the
ECB of making a mistake by increasing rates at a time when
spending cuts in debt-strapped nations and a cooling global
economy are hampering growth.  Criticism  German lawmakers such as  Volker Kauder , the parliamentary
floor leader of German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian
Democrats, have said the ECB’s bond purchases are problematic.
Former Bundesbank vice president  Juergen Stark  resigned from the
ECB’s board last week in protest at the bank’s bond program,
which he says blurs the line between monetary and fiscal policy.  “I regard many of the criticisms of the ECB to be the
result of inadequate economic analysis, of insufficient
knowledge of the crisis in which we find ourselves and of
anxiety resulting from experiences in the distant past that are
not relevant to the current situation,”  Bini Smaghi  said.  The ECB is fighting the worst crisis in its 12-year history
after financial markets lost confidence in the ability of
 Greece , Ireland and Portugal to repay excessive debt. With the
crisis now threatening to engulf Italy and  Spain , the region’s
third and fourth-largest economies, conditions in stock and bond
markets have deteriorated. Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said this month that the situation is
reminiscent of the 2008 turmoil following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Four Days  The ECB has pushed leaders throughout the region to cut
budget deficits and implement reforms. The central bank gave
Italy four days last month to unveil a new austerity plan before
it would buy Italian bonds to stem a surge in yields, Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said this week.  “On the one hand, we must avoid doing the job of others,
taking away their incentive to adopt measures within their
competence, thus creating moral hazard,” Bini Smaghi said. “On
the other hand, we cannot hide behind principles and rules
designed for a theoretical situation which no longer corresponds
to the reality, and cannot give up fulfilling our
responsibilities to avoid much worse situations.”  Bini Smaghi also said the European Financial Stability
Facility may need further adjustment. The rescue fund’s current
decision-making mechanism, which requires all governments to
agree on measures, “does not seem very effective in order to
intervene in a timely fashion in the markets,” Bini Smaghi said.  “To be able to intervene on the primary and secondary
markets, the procedures and methods must be flexible, in line
with market developments,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  