-- 
Bioethicist Bets Bachmann $10,000 on HPV Vaccine Link to Damage

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-09-15T16:52:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/bioethicist-bets-bachmann-10-000-on-vaccine-s-link-to-mental-retardation.html
Bioethicist Art Caplan is
challenging Republican presidential candidate  Michele Bachmann 
with a $10,000 bet to prove a claim that a vaccine to prevent
cervical cancer caused mental retardation.  Bachmann chastised  Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  at a Sept. 12
Republican debate for requiring girls in his state to get Merck
& Co.’s Gardasil in 2007 to ward off a sexually transmitted
virus that causes cancer. The next day in television interviews,
Bachmann said a woman told her the shot, usually given at age
12, triggered mental retardation in the woman’s daughter.  Caplan, director of the center for bioethics at the
 University of Pennsylvania , said the statements by Bachmann, a
U.S. representative from  Minnesota , may cost lives by
frightening parents from vaccinating their daughters. He said
he’ll pay $10,000 to Bachmann’s charity of choice if she can
find such a patient.  “It’s ethically obscene,” Caplan said today in an
interview. “The stakes are too high to try to get political
advantage by putting young women’s lives at risk.”  If Bachmann takes the challenge and is unable to find three
reputable doctors who agree a girl was made mentally retarded by
Gardasil, she will have to pay $10,000 to Caplan’s charity of
choice, he said.  Caplan announced the wager on the social media site Twitter
and said he hasn’t heard from the Bachmann campaign. Neither
Bachmann nor her spokeswoman, Alice Stewart, returned telephone
calls or e-mails today seeking comment on Caplan’s remarks.  13,000 Diagnosed  Nearly 13,000 women will be diagnosed with invasive
cervical cancer in 2011, and 4,290 will die from it, according
to statistics from the  American Cancer Society . The tumors are
mainly caused by the human papillomavirus, or HPV, the virus
targeted by Gardasil and London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s
Cervarix. Cervarix was approved in 2009 in the U.S.  “Is this is a bit of gimmick?,” Caplan said. “Yes. But
it’s to make the point that you don’t want young women to not
get this vaccine because their mothers are afraid of it.”  Merck, in a Sept. 13 statement after Bachmann’s comments,
said the safety and efficacy of the drug was established in
clinical trials before its approval and the shot has been given
to “millions of girls around the world.”  “Leading national and international health organizations
actively monitor and evaluate the HPV vaccine and they continue
to recommend its use,” Merck said in the statement.  Side Effect  The most common side effect of Gardasil is fainting after
getting the injection, followed by skin irritation and
dizziness, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said
in a study published in August 2009.  Perry received at least $23,500 in campaign contributions
from Whitehouse, New Jersey-based Merck, including $5,000 in
2006, the year before he ordered girls throughout the state to
get vaccinated. Merck also has donated about $500,000 to the
 Republican Governors Association , a group which Perry headed
twice and has been among his most generous campaign donors.  Ultimately, girls in Texas were never required to be
immunized against the sexually transmitted infection. While
Perry issued an executive order in 2007 that Texas girls get the
vaccine, the state legislature didn’t agree with Perry and
overturned his order. The mandate was never implemented.  Perry said his goal was saving lives by reducing cases of
cervical cancer and Gardasil was the only such medicine on the
market at the time of his order.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  