-- 
Bloomberg Convenes Top Financial Players at Dealmakers Summit

-- B y  
-- 
2011-09-15T14:46:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/bloomberg-convenes-top-financial-players-at-dealmakers-summit.html

Press Release  J.C. Flowers & Co. Founder J. Christopher Flowers, KKR Co-
Founder Henry R. Kravis, and General Motors Chairman & CEO Dan
Akerson Join Line-up At Bloomberg Dealmakers Conference  NEW YORK -- As recent volatility in the global equity markets is
threatening to derail what was on course to be the best year for
takeovers and initial public offerings since 2007, Bloomberg
LINK will convene top investment bankers, chief executive
officers and lawyers to debate the outlook for global mergers
and acquisition activity at the Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit.  Announced global deal volume in the first six months of 2011
reached $1.27 trillion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
If that pace continued in the second half, deal volume would top
2008 levels. As of August, global IPO’s raised more than during
any comparable period since 2007 but still trailing 2007’s
record $4 trillion in takeovers.  The Summit, to be held on Tuesday, September 27th at Merkin
Concert Hall at Kaufman Center in  New York City , will look at
the possibilities for IPO and M&A recovery, the most active
sectors, the outlook for cross-border mergers and the impact of
the European debt crisis on credit markets and dealmaking.  “The Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit  brings together  Wall Street 
legends like  Henry Kravis , Jimmy Lee, Marty Lipton and Glenn
Hutchins who are changing the corporate landscape and have been
behind some of the most talked about deals of the year from the
government’s IPO of General Motors, to AT&T’s stymied T-Mobile
takeover,” said Dan Doctoroff, Bloomberg President and CEO. “Our
financial knowledge and analytical tools, coupled with our other
platforms such as Bloomberg TV and News, enables us to produce
conferences on the most important topics in business and finance,
connecting decision makers like no one else can.”  “Following a particularly active first half in 2011, concerns
over debt in the U.S. and  Europe  are contributing to a slowing
of M&A activity, and many anticipate tougher regulations on the
way for big mergers,” said  Robert Bierman , head of Bloomberg
LINK. “The Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit will convene at a
critical time as players across the industry seek perspective as
to what it’s going to take to succeed in private equity, M&A and
corporate dealmaking in the coming months.”  Among other topics, speakers will address the future of mega
deals; activist investing and poison pills; M&A in sectors such
as technology, telecommunications, media, and pharmaceuticals;
and how dealmaking in the  United States  will be impacted by the
recent S&P downgrade and increased regulation on Wall Street.  Key speakers include:  - H. Rodgin Cohen, Senior Chairman,  Sullivan & Cromwell , LLP  - Guy Hands, Chairman and Chief Information Officer, Terra Firma
Capital Partners Limited  - Gary W. Parr, Vice Chairman, Lazard  - Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., Chairman and CEO, WL Ross & Co  -  Nouriel Roubini , Chairman and Co-Founder, Roubini Global
Economics, LLC  - Alan D. Schwartz, Executive Chairman, Guggenheim Partners  - Barry S. Sternlicht, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
Starwood Capital Group  The conference is being sponsored by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch and Guggenheim Funds Distributors, Inc.  For more information on the program and speakers, please visit:
 http://www.bloomberglink.com/deals-ny .  Follow us on  Facebook ,  LinkedIn  and Twitter ( @BBGLINK ). The
hashtag for this event is #BBDealmakers.  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about .  About Bloomberg LINK  Bringing the power of Bloomberg to the executive conference
business, Bloomberg LINK produces invitation-only, in-person
gatherings that combine world-class editorial programming with
peer-to-peer networking amongst the who’s who in influential
communities. In this environment, participants engage in open
discussions that lead to learning from each other’s expertise
and experience. For more information, please visit
www.bloomberglink.com.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Angela Martin, + 212-617-1211,  angelamartin@bloomberg.net 
