-- 
Boehner Asks Panel to Take on Tax Breaks, Reject Hike

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-09-15T21:58:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/boehner-will-ask-supercommittee-to-lay-foundation-for-u-s-tax-overhaul.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  called
on the congressional debt-reduction supercommittee to lay the
foundation for a  tax-code  overhaul that would reject rate
increases and curb some tax breaks.  In a speech to the  Economic Club of Washington  today, the
Ohio Republican said the 12-member panel should recommend $1.5
trillion in budget savings by focusing solely on cuts to federal
spending and overhauling Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid.
The panel should fashion “principles” for a later, broad
rewrite of the tax code that include lowering tax rates for
individuals and companies, he said.  “ Tax reform  should deal with the whole tax code, both the
personal side and the corporate side, and it should result in a
code that is simpler and fairer to everyone,” Boehner said.
“Tax increases, I think, are off the table, and I don’t think
they’re a viable option for the joint committee.”  Boehner said the House will consider President  Barack Obama ’s $447 billion jobs plan, which includes cuts in payroll
taxes, provides tax breaks for hiring by small businesses, and
more spending for infrastructure. The speaker made clear he
opposes much of it, calling instead for Republican ideas to
boost job growth, such as reduced  government regulation .  “The president’s proposals are a poor substitute for the
pro-growth policies that are needed to remove barriers to job
creation in America, the policies that are needed to put America
back to work,” Boehner said. He called on Obama to direct his
cabinet secretaries to temporarily halt all work “that gets in
the way of private-sector job creation.”  Obama’s Proposals  The president is scheduled to offer his proposals to the
supercommittee on Sept. 19. Obama’s aides said today that Social
Security won’t be part of the administration’s  deficit-reduction 
plan.  Obama “does not believe that Social Security is a driver
of our near and medium term deficits,” said  Amy Brundage , a
White House spokeswoman.  An effort by Boehner and Obama to tackle entitlements in a
broad debt-reduction accord collapsed this summer. Still, the
Republican speaker said today he favors the supercommittee
addressing long-term changes to the programs.  Changes to entitlement programs should be “phased in over
time,” Boehner said, adding that “modest changes in spending
programs today can have large effects tomorrow.”  Budget ‘Gimmicks’  At the same time, he rejected budget “gimmicks,”
including factoring expected reductions in war spending into the
panel’s recommendations.  On taxes, House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  said
today that a corporate tax overhaul is the one pursuit that
Republicans and Democrats should be able to agree on.  This means lowering the overall corporate tax rate while
eliminating tax exemptions that have been granted for specific
businesses, the Wisconsin Republican said on  MSNBC ’s “Morning
Joe” program.  This sort of tax overhaul can spur job creation, Ryan said.
While Congress should be able to agree on a corporate tax
overhaul before the 2012 elections, Ryan said in the MSNBC
interview, the two parties have too many differences over taxes
for individuals to settle that as quickly.  House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California told
reporters today, “Any tax reform must also reduce the
deficit.” Otherwise, she said, all of the deficit reduction
would have to be accomplished by cutting  government spending .
“That’s not fair,” she said.  Closed-Door Meeting  The 12-member supercommittee met this morning in its first
formal closed-door session. Its next public meeting is scheduled
for Sept. 22, when panel members will hear from Thomas Barthold,
chief of staff of the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation.  The bipartisan panel is seeking $1.5 trillion in cuts in
areas including defense and Medicare by a Nov. 23 deadline. On
taxes, the group is likely to consider setting targets for major
changes to be considered over the next year, before income tax
cuts first enacted under President  George W. Bush  are set to
expire at the end of 2012.  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp, a
Michigan Republican, has been holding hearings on a tax overhaul
and said he wants to keep major tax legislation out of the
supercommittee’s proposal.  The panel today was urged to push for a far-bigger package
of policy changes than it is assigned to reach. A bipartisan
coalition of 36 senators issued recommendations to the
supercommittee that include increasing its savings target to at
least $3 trillion and folding in long-term entitlement and a tax
overhaul.  ‘Borrow Heavily’  “They’re going to have to borrow heavily from the work
that’s already been done” by other debt-cutting groups, said
Senator  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat and chairman of the
Budget Committee. The senators joined calls by other leaders,
including Boehner, to shoot for a higher savings target.  Boehner is emphasizing his economic credentials with the
business community. He spoke in May to Wall Street leaders at
the  Economic Club of New York , where he said congressional
Republicans wouldn’t let the U.S. default on obligations to
bondholders in the debate over raising the nation’s debt limit.
He outlined the party’s demands for spending cuts and tougher
budget rules to rein in deficits.  Infrastructure, Schools  Republican leaders in both chambers are sparring with Obama
over his $447 billion jobs plan. Republicans say the package of
tax and spending measures proposed Sept. 8 relies too heavily on
ideas such as added spending on infrastructure and to modernize
schools that were already used in 2009’s economic stimulus. They
say the nation’s 9.1 percent  unemployment rate  is evidence the
earlier measure didn’t work.  Republican leaders also oppose tax increases Obama proposed
to help offset the costs, including higher taxes on investment
income and on the oil and gas industries. Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, today said even
Democrats are criticizing Obama’s plan.  Job creation  is a top issue for both parties as next year’s
elections draw nearer. Obama is confronting skepticism from
voters about his economic policies as public opinion polls show
his approval ratings are dropping.  A majority of Americans don’t believe his jobs plan will
help lower the unemployment rate, a Bloomberg National Poll
conducted Sept. 9-12 shows. The poll found 62 percent disapprove
of his handling of the economy. The president’s overall job-
approval rating was 45 percent, the lowest since he was
inaugurated in January 2009.  House Seat  This week, Republicans picked up a House seat in  New York 
in a special election to replace Democratic Representative
Anthony Weiner, who resigned his seat in disgrace in June.
Republicans next year will try to keep control of the House.  To tout his plan, Obama has traveled to  North Carolina ,
Ohio and  Virginia , all election battleground states.  The central feature of Obama’s proposal is a cut in the
payroll tax, which covers the first $106,800 in earnings and is
split between employers and employees. Obama would reduce the
portion paid by workers next year to 3.1 percent from 4.2
percent now. The rate already was cut two percentage points
under a tax deal reached last year. That cut expires Dec. 31.  On the spending side, the package includes a $105 billion
infrastructure proposal for school modernization, transportation
projects and rehabilitation of vacant properties. The
administration also seeks $35 billion in direct aid to state and
local governments to stem layoffs of educators and emergency
personnel.  Obama would pay for his proposal by raising taxes on top
earners, generating about $400 billion over a decade by capping
some deductions and exclusions, according to administration
estimates. The plan would tax carried interest, or profits-based
compensation, of private equity managers, real estate investors
and venture capitalists as ordinary income, instead of more
lightly taxed capital gains, and end special tax breaks for oil
and gas companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  