-- 
BofA Says Candle Illuminates Long-Bond Rally: Technical Analysis

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-09-15T18:07:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/bofa-says-candle-illuminates-long-bond-rally-technical-analysis.html
Treasury 30-year bonds, which have
triple the returns of the broader U.S. government debt market
this year, are poised to rally further, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, citing  technical analysis .  The yield on the long bond may fall to 3.01 percent as a
“bearish engulfing candle” indicates the maturity will
outperform 10-year notes,  MacNeil Curry , chief rates and
currencies technical strategist in  New York  at the Bank of
America Corp. unit, said in an interview.  “Rates are still in a bull trend given the recent market
turmoil,” said Curry, whose firm is one of the 20 primary
dealers that trade with the Federal Reserve, in an interview.
“The long bond is set to outperform as the steepening trend has
run its course.”  A bearish engulfing candle highlights the potential for a
change in investor sentiment. A security’s high, low, open and
close for each day are displayed in a candlestick chart.  The difference in yield between 10- and 30-year Treasuries
dropped today to 125 basis points, the narrowest since July, as
investors flocked to the longest maturity. The spread may fall
to 117 basis points, according to Curry.  U.S. 30-year bonds have returned 24 percent this year,
compared with a gain of 8 percent for the broad Treasury market,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The long
bonds are headed for their best year since 2008.  Thirty-year bonds dropped today, pushing yields up six
basis points to 3.33 percent, after the  European Central Bank 
eased sovereign-debt turmoil when it said it will work with the
 Federal Reserve  and other central banks to lend euro-area
financial institutions dollars. Benchmark 10-year note yields
gained 10 basis points to 2.08 percent.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  