-- 
Bovespa Advances Second Session as ECB Move Lifts Commodities

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-09-15T20:29:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/bovespa-advances-second-session-as-ecb-move-lifts-commodities.html
The Bovespa stock index rose for a
second day as the  European Central Bank ’s liquidity measures
lifted commodity prices, mitigating declines in companies that
depend on Brazil’s consumer demand.  Miner MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA led advances while pulp
producer Fibria Celulose SA rose to the highest price since Aug.
2. Itau Unibanco Holding SA paced gains for banks after its
chief executive officer said profit may rise 15 percent next
year and BlackRock Inc. said it added to holdings. The index’s
advance was limited as consumer-goods makers Natura Cosmeticos
SA and Hypermarcas SA slumped amid speculation interest-rate
cuts may fuel inflation.  The Bovespa added 0.2 percent to 56,381.46 at the 4:15 p.m.
New York time close. Thirty-one stocks gained on the measure
while 36 fell. The real rose 0.4 percent to 1.7069 per dollar.  The ECB move “provides some relief because it shows that
the authorities aren’t going to let the crisis get worse without
trying something,” said Rogerio Freitas, a partner at Rio de
Janeiro-based hedge fund Teorica Investimentos.  Brazil ’s central
bank “seems excessively optimistic as to the disinflationary
impact of the crisis. We continue quite skeptical, quite
concerned -- we don’t see a very favorable outlook for the
market.”  Global equities advanced after the ECB said it will
coordinate with the  Federal Reserve  and other central banks to
offer three separate three-month loans to ensure euro-area banks
have enough of the U.S. currency through the end of the year.
Energy and metals led commodities higher.  Fibria, MMX, Itau  MMX, the iron-ore producer controlled by Brazilian
billionaire Eike Batista, rose 2.7 percent to 8.36 reais.
Fibria, the world’s largest pulp producer, rose 1.3 percent to
16.92 reais, its fourth straight gain.  Itau,  Latin America ’s biggest bank by market value, rose
1.7 percent to 28.75 reais. Profit next year will benefit as
interest-rate cuts in Brazil reduce loan delinquencies, CEO
Roberto Setubal said in an interview. Will Landers, a  money
manager  at BlackRock, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television that his firm bought Itau and Banco Bradesco SA
yesterday as shares remain attractive.  Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contracts tumbled,
indicating traders are wagering on steeper declines in borrowing
costs. The yield on the contract due in January 2013 fell six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 10.72 percent.  Inflation  Inflation expectations are rising after policy makers
lowered the benchmark Selic rate last month by half a percentage
point to 12 percent to shore up Brazil’s economic growth amid
the global slowdown. Economists boosted their 2011 inflation
forecast for a fourth straight week, to 6.45 percent, according
to a central bank survey published Sept. 12.  Natura, Brazil’s biggest cosmetics maker, fell 4.3 percent
to 35.12 reais. Hypermarcas SA, Brazil’s fifth-largest consumer-
goods company by market value, slid 2.7 percent to 12.07 reais.  The Bovespa entered a  bear market  on July 27 after plunging
20 percent from its bull-market peak in November. The measure
extended that drop to 23 percent through yesterday and trades at
9.5 times analysts’ earnings estimates, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 11.5 for the
Shanghai Composite Index, 5.7 for  Russia ’s Micex and 14.2 for
 India ’s Sensex.  Traders moved 6.38 billion reais ($3.75 billion) in stocks
in  Sao Paulo  yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares to a daily average this year of 6.55 billion reais
through Sept. 6, according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  