-- 
BP-Backed Energy Group Starts Carbon-Capture Simulation Project

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-09-15T11:04:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/bp-backed-energy-group-starts-carbon-capture-simulation-project.html
The  Energy Technologies Institute ,
backed by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  BP Plc (BP/) , started a 3 million-
pound ($4.7 million) project that uses software to show power
companies how to develop carbon-capture sites economically.  The program will simulate the operation of carbon capture
and storage, or CCS, a technology that gathers carbon dioxide
released in power generation for underground storage, the
Loughborough, England-based institute said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Britain, due to shut more than 11,000 megawatts of coal and
oil-fed power capacity by the end of 2015, is examining ways to
meet energy demand while reducing emissions, including an
initiative to fund the first CCS demonstration project. Building
a CCS plant adds about 500 million euros ($690 million) to the 1
billion-euro cost of a coal-fired power station, adviser  Zero
Emissions Platform  said in June.  EDF Energy Plc, Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc and Petrofac Ltd.
are involved in the institute’s software project, which will
simulate all aspects of the “complex” CCS chain, helping
power-plant developers and operators, as well as policy makers,
understand the technology, according to the statement. It will
take more than two years to develop the CCS modeling program.  Process System Enterprise Ltd., a modeling technology
company, and energy consultants E4tech Ltd. are also
participating. The institute, a partnership between BP, Shell,
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , EDF Energy, EON AG, Rolls-Royce and the U.K.
government, has already announced 29 million pounds of CCS
projects, including a capture trial led by Costain Group Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  