-- 
BP Wins U.S. Dismissal of Some Investors’ Derivative Suits

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-09-16T21:14:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/bp-investors-derivative-spill-suits-dismissed-by-u-s-judge.html
BP Plc (BP/)  convinced a federal judge
that it shouldn’t have to face some lawsuits in the U.S. brought
by institutional investors on behalf of the company over last
year’s Gulf of Mexico drilling-rig explosion and oil spill.  U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison in Houston agreed with
BP’s arguments that the claims should be filed in U.K. courts
because the company is based in  London . Ellison said he may
reverse this dismissal if English courts “refuse to accept
jurisdiction” for reasons other than the plaintiffs’ failure to
comply with procedural requirements.  “Because this derivative lawsuit involves the internal
governance of an English corporation, the convenience of the
parties and the interests of justice favor  England  as a more
convenient forum,” Ellison said yesterday in a 31-page
decision.  Investors sued BP claiming that the company’s management
and board caused the spill by knowingly putting profits ahead of
safety. The Deepwater Horizon rig exploded in April 2010 while
drilling a BP well off the Louisiana coast, killing 11 and
spilling more than 4.1 million barrels of oil.  Combined Actions  The investors’ suits, so-called derivative claims brought
on behalf of the company, are combined with other shareholder
actions before Ellison in Houston. Lawsuits seeking money for
economic and personal injuries from the spill are consolidated
before a different U.S. judge in  New Orleans .  The other shareholder lawsuits before Ellison, including
those claiming securities fraud, aren’t affected by his decision
on the derivative claims.  “The primary concern of this derivative litigation is the
internal affairs of an English corporation, and the suit seeks
to recover damages for the benefit of BP only,” Ellison said in
his ruling. “ English law  governs this dispute and will
determine whether the individual defendants breached their
fiduciary duties and harmed BP in the process.”  Mark Lebovitch, a lawyer for the investors, said in an
interview today that his clients “continue to believe that if
ever there was a case where a federal judge should retain
jurisdiction over a foreign corporation’s board, this case is
it.” The plaintiffs are “reviewing their options” for a
response to the dismissal, he said.  BP spokesmen Daren Beaudo declined to comment.  The case is In re BP Shareholder Derivative Litigation,
4:10-cv-03447, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas 
(Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  