-- 
Brazil Lifts Tax to Protect Car Producers From Cheap Imports

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-09-15T23:12:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/brazil-to-give-tax-breaks-to-carmakers-to-prevent-imports-surge.html
Brazil’s government announced tax
incentives for local carmakers in a bid to protect jobs from a
surge in imports that’s been fueled by a rally in the currency
and competition from  China .  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  raised the so-called
industrial products tax on carmakers by 30 percentage points,
except for those who source 65 percent of their parts from the
Mercosur trade bloc or Mexico. The measure will raise the cost
of imported cars by as much as 28 percent, and force foreign
automakers to build key components in Brazil, he said.  “These measures are going to stimulate national production
and guarantee investment,” Mantega told reporters in Brasilia.
“If we don’t do anything, we are going to lose space to
imports, and we are not going to permit that.”  Carmakers based in Brazil have been hit by a rally in the
real, which has sucked in cheap imports from China and
elsewhere. Brazil’s motor industry, the world’s fifth-biggest,
is dominated by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Fiat SpA (F)  and General Motors Co.
who between them have about two thirds of the market.  Chinese automakers’ market share of the market expanded to
3.29 percent in August, from virtually zero in April 2010,
according to the national car dealers’ association Fenabrave.  Cheap Imports  Mantega said the government is worried by the rise in car
inventories, and the spare capacity in the industry.  The real hit a 12-year high against the dollar in July, and
is up 36 percent since the start of 2009, as near-zero  interest
rates  in the U.S. and Europe led investors to seek higher
returns elsewhere.  Fiat, General Motors and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  have all lost
market share in Brazil over the last year.  Carmakers must meet six of 11 requirements ranging from
building of transmissions to the assembly of cars in Brazil in
order to avoid the higher tax, Mantega said. The new rules will
apply until December 2012, he said.  JAC Motors,  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  and Chery Automobile Co.
could reconsider their decision to invest in Brazil due to the
rise in the tax, the president of the Brazilian Association of
Vehicle Importers José Luis Gandini told reporters in Brasilia.  Growth Outlook  Research firm J.D. Power and Associates in July cut its
growth forecast for 2011 light vehicle sales in Brazil to 3.4
percent, from 9.8 percent at the start of the year, as
inventories rose and the economy showed signs of cooling.  Brazil’s car industry has also been hit by central bank
measures to curb credit growth. Auto loans fell to 8.4 billion
reais in July, down 24 percent from December when the central
bank set  capital requirements  encouraging higher down payments
and fewer installments on car purchases.  Since last year, Chinese carmakers Chery, Chongqing Lifan
Auto Co. and Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co.’s JAC Motors have
all announced plans to build plants in  Brazil .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 