-- 
Brazilian Real Snaps Nine-Day Losing Streak on European Support for Greece

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-09-15T21:35:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/brazil-interest-rate-futures-fall-as-u-s-jobless-claims-signal-slowdown.html
Brazil ’s real snapped a nine-day
losing streak after European leaders’ pledge to support Greece
and lend to euro-area banks spurred optimism policy makers will
contain the region’s debt crisis.  The real rose 0.4 percent to 1.7069 per dollar at 5 p.m. in
 New York , interrupting its longest losing streak since 2005. The
currency has lost 6.9 percent this month.  The real and the euro gained as global stocks rebounded
after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and President Nicolas Sarkozy
said late yesterday that they’re “convinced” Greece will stay
in the euro area. The European Central Bank coordinated with
international policy makers to lend dollars to help credit
constrained banks, while China offered to buy euro bonds from
countries involved in the sovereign debt crisis.  Greece  also
signaled Arab investors may invest in the country.  “The market is getting better today,” said Marco Freire,
chief investment officer for fixed income at Franklin Templeton
Investimentos, which manages $1 billion of assets in Brazil.
“China investing in Italy, the Middle East in Greece, and
Germany and France saying they will free up money, you have
various things helping the market to improve.”  Yields on most interest-rate futures contracts maturing
through January 2014 declined after unemployment claims in the
U.S. unexpectedly rose last week, highlighting concerns the
global economic recovery is faltering.  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2013 fell six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 10.72 percent.  Applications for U.S. unemployment benefits unexpectedly
rose last week to the highest level since the end of June,
underscoring the risk of further weakness in the labor market.
Jobless claims climbed by 11,000 to 428,000 in the week ended
Sept. 10, figures from the Labor Department showed today in
 Washington . Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a
drop in claims to 411,000, according to the median forecast.  “The data in general coming out of the U.S. is weak,”
said  Newton Rosa , chief economist at Sul America Investimentos
in  Sao Paulo . “This keeps the door open for new interest-rate
cuts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  