-- 
Brazil Sugar Industry Needs $490 Billion in Investments by 2030

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-09-15T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/brazil-sugar-industry-needs-490-billion-in-investments-by-2030.html
Brazil  may need as much as $490
billion in investments to meet rising demand for sugar and
ethanol, C. Czarnikow Sugar Futures Ltd. said in a report.  Improved equipment and roads and increased growing area
will be needed to raise production in Brazil, according to the
report published today. Flex-fuel vehicles are expected to
compose 85 percent of all vehicles by 2030 in Brazil, where
sugar is made into ethanol, compared with 45 percent today,
Czarnikow said.  “Demand for Brazilian sugar is being driven by global
 population growth  and rising incomes,” Czarnikow analysts Toby Cohen and Peter de Klerk wrote. “The market for ethanol is
largely being driven by increasing fuel use.”  Raw sugar futures for March delivery rose 0.5 percent to
28.26 cents a pound in electronic trading on ICE Futures U.S. in
 New York  by 8:37 a.m. London time. The sweetener has fallen 12
percent this year.  The amount of land used to produce sugar cane will probably
have to more than double to 9.17 million hectares (22.7 million
acres) by 2030 when Brazil will probably process at least 1.4
billion metric tons for domestic use and export, according to
the report.  “The land requirements can be met,” Cohen wrote in the
report. “The Brazilian government estimates that there is at
least that much land available for expansion in the key states,
even accounting for expansion in other crops.”  The cost of production will rise 85 percent in the next two
decades and investment in land and mills to process the cane
will be needed, Czarnikow said. Wage inflation and increased
mechanization and expansion will cause costs to rise, according
to the report. Because the cost of production is gaining, the
cane price will more than double by 2030, it said.  “Wages in the sector will continue to rise as will
machinery costs, though at a lower rate,” Czarnikow said.
“Costs associated with soil preparation, planting and
maintenance are expected to increase progressively.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  