-- 
Bridgestone to Pay $28 Million Fine Over Bribes, U.S. Says

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-15T18:12:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/bridgestone-to-pay-28-million-to-settle-conspiracy-charges-u-s-says.html
Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , the world’s
biggest tire maker, agreed to pay $28 million to settle criminal
allegations it conspired to bribe government officials in  Latin
America , the U.S. Justice Department said.  Bridgestone will plead guilty to charges of plotting to rig
bids and make corrupt payments related to the sale of products
including marine hose, used to transfer oil between tankers and
storage facilities, Sharis A. Pozen, acting chief of the Justice
Department’s antitrust division, said today in a statement. The
company said today it will withdraw from the marine hose
business.  From as early as January 1999 until late May 2007, Tokyo-
based Bridgestone conspired to fix prices and allocate market
shares of marine hose in the U.S. and elsewhere, Pozen said. The
company allegedly conspired to make payments to Latin American
government officials to obtain and retain business.  As part of the agreement, Bridgestone will cooperate with
the department’s investigation, according to the statement. The
agreement requires court approval.  Bridgestone has dismantled its international engineered
products department, closed its Houston office and terminated
many of its third-party agents, the company said today in an e-
mailed statement.  ‘Remediation Measures’  “We are committed to the efforts to further enhance and
expand our remediation measures, and to conduct business in
compliance with the competition and anticorruption laws around
the world,” Bridgestone said in the statement.  Bridgestone is the fifth company to be charged in the bid-
rigging investigation by the  Justice Department ’s antitrust
division. Nine people have been convicted and sentenced for
taking part in the marine-hose pricing conspiracy, including
Misao Hioki, Bridgestone’s former general manager for
international engineered products, according to the Justice
Department statement.  Bridgestone rose 35 yen, or 2.1 percent, to 1,718 yen in
Tokyo trading. The shares have climbed 11 percent in the past
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  