-- 
British Households Become More Confident About Residential Property Market

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-09-15T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/british-households-become-more-confident-about-property-market.html
Confidence that U.K. home prices
will rise climbed to the highest level since July 2010 after the
 Bank of England  signaled that borrowing costs won’t increase
soon, a gauge of sentiment showed.  The index of price expectations rose to 53.6 from 48.5 in
August, according to a report by  Markit Economics . A reading of
more than 50 indicates respondents predict prices will increase
in the next 12 months, according to the survey, which was
published today by real-estate broker  Knight Frank LLP .  With the economy faltering, every member of the Bank of
 England ’s Monetary Policy Committee voted to leave the benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent last
month. Two members dropped their calls for higher interest rates
to curb inflation. That suggests borrowing costs will stay
unchanged for at least a year, said Grainne Gilmore, head of
U.K. residential research at London-based  Knight Frank .  “This is likely to have boosted confidence, especially
among homeowners who have variable-rate mortgages and buyers
with deposits who can clinch new mortgage deals at historically
low rates,” Gilmore said in a statement.  A separate measure of current home-price sentiment improved
to 44.7 from 41.5 in August, indicating that fewer respondents
said prices were falling. This was also compiled by  Markit
Economics .  Stable Prices  The surveys “indicate that prices are likely to stay
stable,” said Gilmore. Price gains may materialize “if the
trend of the future house-price sentiment index is maintained in
months to come.”  The U.K. housing market is being constrained by reduced
mortgage lending as banks repair balance sheets and impose
stricter loan terms, and by higher taxes and inflation squeezing
household finances. Lloyds Banking Group Plc’s Halifax mortgage-
lending unit said July 6 that  home prices  rose the most in eight
months in June because of a shortage of properties for sale.  July mortgage approvals were 39 percent less than the
average of the past decade, central bank data show.  U.K. homeowners shouldn’t count on making money from their
property as the pace of price gains slows, Housing Minister
Grant Shapps said in a Sept. 6 interview. Buyers are struggling
to get mortgages because salaries have failed to keep pace with
home-price increases.  Increased confidence in future home prices stemmed mainly
from respondents located in southeast England and London, the
survey showed. These regions are less affected by public
employment cutbacks than other parts of the U.K. as the
government seeks to reduce a record budget deficit. The East
Midlands region, which includes the cities Derby, Leicester and
Nottingham, was the most pessimistic, the survey showed.  The housing report, compiled from surveys of households by
London-based research firm Ipsos-Mori since February 2009, was
published for the first time today. It was based on responses
from 1,500 adults surveyed Sept. 8-11 using quotas and
weightings to match U.K. demographics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 