-- 
Brown University President Simmons to Step Down Next Year

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-15T20:17:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/brown-university-president-simmons-to-step-down-next-year-1-.html
Brown University President Ruth Simmons, the first black person to lead an  Ivy League  college,
said she will step down at the end of the 2011-2012 academic
year.  Simmons, who is in her 11th year in the post, will stay on
as a professor of comparative literature and Africana studies,
she said in a  letter  posted on Brown’s website today. The Brown
Corporation, the university’s governing body, will choose her
successor, the statement said.  “Things are in terrific order,” Simmons said today in an
interview. “I concluded this was a really good time.”  Simmons, 66, increased the size of Brown’s faculty, boosted
student financial aid and built up the campus, according to a
university  statement . While she led the school through the 2008
financial crisis, students criticized Simmons for her membership
on the board of investment bank  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
Simmons, who had planned to step down from the presidency after
10 years, was asked to delay her departure as the university
finished a major fundraising campaign, Brown officials said.  “There were a number of projects in progress that were very
important to get finished,” said Stephen Robert, the school’s
former chancellor and a current member of the Brown Corporation
who led the search committee that recommended hiring Simmons
away from  Smith College  in 2001. “Part of it was just not
wanting her to leave. In recent modern history, she’s been
Brown’s best president.”  Applicants Doubled  Under Simmons, applicants to the undergraduate program
doubled and the size of Brown’s faculty increased 20 percent,
allowing for more course offerings, according to the university.
She presided over construction of a new medical school, fine
arts center and campus center.  “If a president had done one or two of these things in 10
years it would have been good,” Robert said. “To have done all
of them is extraordinary.”  Brown raised $1.61 billion in a seven-year campaign that
ended in December, exceeding the original goal of $1.4 billion,
according to the statement. Simmons was very active in the
capital campaign, said Matthew Mallow, a member of the Brown
Corporation who co-chaired the effort.  “For seven years, Ruth and I and our colleagues traveled
the world” to raise funds, said Mallow, a retired partner of law
firm Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP. “It was a long and
arduous effort, and that was a crowning achievement.”  Simmons was criticized by the school’s student newspaper,
the  Brown Daily Herald , for her membership on Goldman Sachs’s
board. U.S. investigators said in April 2010 that the company
had misled investors in mortgage-linked securities.  Board Memberships  Simmons stepped down from that board last year, citing a
need to spend more time at Brown. When she was hired to come to
the university 10 years ago, corporation members had asked her
to relinquish her membership on two other boards, but they
played no role in her decision to leave Goldman’s board, Mallow
said.  “The controversy was more among students than anyone else,”
Robert said. “I don’t think there was any kind of a conflict.”  Simmons received total compensation from the investment
bank valued at $450,876 for 2009, her last full year as a
director, according to a regulatory filing. In the same year,
her total compensation from Brown was  $656,683 , according to a
separate filing.  The issue of her link to Goldman Sachs wasn’t among her
reasons to leave the presidency at Brown, Simmons said in the
interview. She is currently a director at  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)   Simmons got her bachelor’s degree from Dillard University
in  New Orleans  in 1967 and her Ph.D. in Romance languages and
literatures from  Harvard University  in 1973, according to
 Brown’s website . Time magazine named her America’s best college
president in 2001, the website said.  Founded in 1764, Brown is the a member of the Ivy League of
eight northeastern U.S. colleges. Brown has about 6,000
undergraduate students, 2,000 graduate students and 400
attending its medical school, according to the university.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 Jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  