-- 
Cable Urges ‘Creative Mechanisms’ for U.K. Monetary Stimulus

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-09-16T11:49:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/cable-demands-creative-mechanisms-for-u-k-monetary-stimulus.html
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
said the  Bank of England  should be ready to open a new round of
quantitative easing to keep the economy growing, including the
use of “creative mechanisms” that go beyond purchases of
 government bonds .  He said the government is right not to compromise on the
pace of budget-deficit reduction, arguing the central bank’s 200
billion-pound ($360 billion) bond-buying program remains the
preferred tool to spur demand should the economy weaken further.  “We cannot and will not allow the economy to fall into a
trap of stagnation,” Cable wrote in a  pamphlet  as his Liberal
Democrat party prepares to begin its annual conference tomorrow.
With  interest rates  close to zero and no room for fiscal
stimulus, “the best instrument available is expansion of  money
supply  through QE, though conditions may call for the use of
more creative mechanisms designed to stimulate private credit.”  Politicians including Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  have emphasized the
possibility of further monetary easing to revive a recovery that
has all but stalled.  Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  said this week the
central bank may need to buy as much as 100 billion pounds in
securities if conditions deteriorate and warned that officials’
delay in acting has made economic prospects “worse.”  Gilts make up almost all of the assets purchased since the
central bank began quantitative easing in March 2009, when the
economy was in the grip of its worst recession since World War
II. It has bought only small quantities of corporate bonds.
Posen has suggested other private-sector assets that could be
bought include commercial paper and  high-quality mortgages .  No Objections  Osborne made clear last week that he had no objections to
the central bank buying assets other than gilts if it decides
that a second round of quantitative easing is necessary, a move
that would require his approval.  Ministers are scrambling for solutions to prevent the U.K.
economy from tipping back into recession as global growth slows.
Aside from citing monetary levers, Clegg this week emphasized
the need to complete infrastructure projects on time.  Osborne used a speech today to defend his plan to eliminate
the structural deficit by 2015, saying the economy’s automatic
response to a downturn -- a falling tax burden and increased
spending on welfare -- will provide a cushion if conditions
worsen.  Support Package  He also pledged a new package of support for mid-sized
firms in November and said companies including BAE Systems Plc,
 Centrica Plc (CNA)  and  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  had agreed to help their smaller
peers in areas such as export markets, executive training,
intellectual property and financing and payment arrangements.  “We should all learn the lessons from the successful
Mittelstand model which has operated in  Germany  for many decades
-- the medium-sized companies that are such a source of strength
for that country,” he told business leaders in Manchester,
England.  Cable, an advocate of central bank independence, defended
the right of politicians to express their views on monetary
policy because the purchase of bonds can have fiscal
implications.  “The bank has been required to make extraordinary
interventions which go way beyond a narrow remit of  price
stability ,” Cable said. “Any further innovations in how it
operates will require sign off from the government if they
further encroach into fiscal territory.”  He dismissed fears about inflation in the U.K., saying that
wages remain subdued. “The evidence suggests that inflationary
worries in the U.K. are overdone,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  