-- 
Canada August Existing Home Sales (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-09-15T13:11:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/canada-august-existing-home-sales-text-.html
According to statistics1 released
today by The  Canadian Real Estate Association  (CREA), national
resale housing activity in August 2011 remained stable for the
second consecutive month.  Highlights:
• Sales activity was stable from July to August, but posted
another big year-over-year gain reflecting weakened demand last
summer.
• Year-to-date sales pulled ahead of 2010 levels for the first
time this year, and remain in line with the ten-year average.
• The number of newly listed homes was also little changed from
July to August.
• The national housing market stayed firmly entrenched in
balanced territory.
• There were more balanced local markets in August than at any
other time on record.
• The national average price posted another year-over-year gain
in August, but has moderated from elevated levels earlier this
year.
• Upward skewing of the national average price is diminishing
due to fewer expensive sales and a declining share of national
activity in Vancouver and Toronto.  For a second consecutive month, national home sales activity
held steady in August 2011 when compared to the previous month.  Among major urban centres, Toronto and Ottawa posted a monthly
increase in activity while Calgary,  Montreal  and Vancouver saw
activity decline slightly.  “The housing market in Canada remained on a firm footing in
August when compared to volatile financial markets,” said Gary
Morse, CREA President. “Through their actions, homebuyers are
showing that they remain confident about the stability of the
Canadian housing market, and recognize that the continuation of
low  interest rates  represents an excellent opportunity to buy
their first home or trade up.”  Actual (not seasonally adjusted) sales activity came in 15.8 per
cent above national levels reported one year earlier. This was
the largest year-over-year increase since last April, but
largely reflects weakened activity one year ago.  A total of 324,030 homes have traded hands via Canadian MLS®
Systems so far this year. While this stands only marginally
above levels in the first eight months of last year, it
nevertheless marks the first time this year that year-to-date
activity has pulled ahead of 2010 levels.  As has been the case for much of this year, the year-to-date
sales figure continues to run in line with the ten-year average.  The number of newly listed homes nationally was also little
changed from July to August. This kept the national housing
market firmly planted in balanced territory. The national sales-
to-new listings ratio, a measure of market balance, stood at
51.6 per cent in August, unchanged compared to July.  Based on a sales-to-new listings ratio of between 40 to 60 per
cent, 70 per cent of all local markets in  Canada  were in
balanced market territory in August - a greater percentage than
at any other time on record. There were just 12 buyers’ markets
in August, which was the lowest figure so far this year.  The number of months of inventory stood at 6.2 months at the end
of August on a national basis, which is little changed from the
end of July (6.1 months). The national months of inventory
figure has been stable at about six months since April. The
number of months of inventory represents the number of months it
would take to sell current inventories at the current rate of
sales activity, and is another measure of the balance between
housing supply and demand.  The actual (not seasonally adjusted) national average price for
homes sold in August 2011 stood at $349,916. This is 7.7 per
cent above its year-ago level, which marked the low point for
2010.  The national average price has moderated compared to earlier
this year, with sales activity in  Vancouver , and more recently
in Toronto, exerting less of an effect on the national average.
Their share of provincial and national sales activity reached
unusually elevated levels earlier this year, but has since
receded in line with normal seasonal variations.  “Once again, economic and financial market headwinds outside
Canada are keeping interest rates lower for longer,” said
Gregory Klump, CREA’s Chief Economist. “Those headwinds will
likely persist until, and indeed after, fiscal quagmires in the
U.S. and  Europe  are resolved. In the meantime, the  Bank of
Canada  will have ample reason to delay raising interest rates
further, which is supportive for the Canadian housing market.”  PLEASE NOTE: The information contained in this news release
combines both major market and national MLS® sales
information from the previous month.  CREA cautions that average price information can be useful in
establishing trends over time, but does not indicate actual
prices in centres comprised of widely divergent neighborhoods or
account for price differential between geographic areas.
Statistical information contained in this report includes all
housing types.  MLS® is a co-operative marketing system used only by Canada’s
real estate Boards to ensure maximum exposure of properties
listed for sale.  The Canadian Real Estate Association (CREA) is one of Canada’s
largest single-industry trade associations, representing more
than 100,000 REALTORS® working through more than 100 real estate
Boards and Associations.  Further information can be found at
 http://www.crea.ca/public/news_stats/media.htm .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  