-- 
Canada July Manufacturing Sales Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-09-15T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/canada-july-manufacturing-sales-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's manufacturing shipments report for July released
by  Statistics Canada .  Manufacturing sales rose 2.7% to $46.7 billion in July.
The increase follows three consecutive months of declines.
More than three-quarters of the sales gains in July were
in Ontario.  Constant dollar manufacturing sales were up 2.8%.  Higher sales were reported in 15 of 21 industries,
representing 74.8% of total manufacturing. The petroleum
and coal products, primary metal and fabricated metal
product industries led the gains.  Wide ranging sales gains in July  Sales in the petroleum and coal products industry
increased 6.1% in July to $6.2 billion. The gain mostly
reflected higher volumes, as some refineries ramped up
production following maintenance work and retooling in
June.  The primary metal industry reported a 7.6% increase in
sales to $4.3 billion, as production rose at some plants
following maintenance shutdowns in June. Sales in the
industry have advanced steadily since June 2009. Sales in
July were at their highest level since October 2008.  In the fabricated metal product industry, sales
increased 8.7% in July to $2.9 billion. With this latest
advance, sales reached 93.3% of their all-time peak
recorded in July 2008.  The miscellaneous (+24.8%) and  motor vehicle  (+5.5%)
industries also reported higher sales in July.  Production fell 17.5% to $946 million in the aerospace
product and parts industry, offsetting a portion of the
gains in manufacturing sales.  Manufacturing sales advance in most provinces  Manufacturing sales were up in seven provinces in July,
with Ontario,  Alberta  and Quebec reporting the largest
provincial sales increases in dollar terms.  In Ontario, sales rose 4.7% to $21.3 billion. The rise
in July was the largest single-month increase since July
2009. The transportation equipment (+6.3%), miscellaneous
manufacturing (+45.8%), and petroleum and coal product
(+11.6%) industries posted the largest gains.  Sales of manufactured goods in Alberta rose 3.0% in
July, reflecting advances in the petroleum and coal
product, chemical and fabricated metal product industries.
The gains were partially offset by a 2.5% decline in the
machinery industry.  Quebec  manufacturers reported a 0.5% increase in sales
to $11.3 billion, reflecting gains in the primary metal,
fabricated metal product, petroleum and coal product, and
wood product industries. The gains were mostly offset by a
decline in the aerospace product and parts industry.  Inventory levels edge down in July  Inventory levels edged down 0.1% in July, the first
decline since September 2010. Lower inventory levels were
reported by manufacturers in 13 of 21 industries.  The largest declines were reported in the petroleum and
coal product, and aerospace product and parts industries,
with decreases of 8.5% and 4.9% respectively.  However, the declines were offset by a 3.7% rise in
machinery inventories and a 2.8% increase in primary metal
inventories.  The inventory-to-sales ratio decreased from 1.39 in
June to 1.35 in July. This was the first decrease since
January 2011.  Unfilled orders advance for the seventh straight month  Unfilled orders rose 2.2% in July to $60.1 billion, the
seventh consecutive monthly increase. This was also the
highest level since April 2009.  Contributing to the increase in unfilled orders was a
7.6% rise in the machinery industry and a 1.8% advance by
aerospace product and parts. A 4.1% gain in the fabricated
metal product industry also contributed to the overall
increase. Excluding the  aerospace industry , unfilled
orders rose 2.7% to $31.1 billion.  New orders increased 1.3% in July to $48.1 billion, led
by gains in the primary metal, machinery, fabricated metal
product, and petroleum and coal product industries. The
increase was mostly offset by a decline in the aerospace
product and parts industry.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted and
are expressed in current dollars unless otherwise
specified.  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated
for the three previous months.  Non-durable goods industries include food, beverage and
tobacco products, textile mills, textile product mills,
clothing, leather and allied products, paper, printing and
related support activities, petroleum and coal products,
chemicals, and plastics and rubber products.  Durable goods industries include wood products, non-
metallic mineral products, primary metal, fabricated metal
products, machinery, computer and electronic products,
electrical equipment, appliances and components,
transportation equipment, furniture and related products
and miscellaneous manufacturing.  Production-based industries  For the aerospace industry and shipbuilding industries,
the value of production is used instead of sales of goods
manufactured. This value is calculated by adjusting
monthly sales of goods manufactured by the monthly change
in inventories of goods in process and finished products
manufactured.  Unfilled orders are a stock of orders that will
contribute to future sales assuming that the orders are
not cancelled.  New orders are those received whether sold in the
current month or not. New orders are measured as the sum
of sales for the current month plus the change in unfilled
orders from the previous month to the current month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  