-- 
Canada’s Currency Gains to One-Week High as ECB Coordinates Liquidity Plan

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-09-15T21:30:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/canada-s-currency-gains-to-one-week-high-as-ecb-coordinates-liquidity-plan.html
The Canadian currency reached a
one-week high versus the greenback after the  European Central
Bank  said it will lend euro-area banks U.S. dollars, spurring
bets that the region’s debt crisis may be contained.  The euro gained against the Canadian currency for a second
day and rose versus most major peers after the ECB said it will
coordinate with the  Federal Reserve  and other central banks to
ensure euro-region banks have enough of the U.S. currency
through the end of the year.  Canada ’s  government bonds  fell,
pushing 10-year yields up the most in a month.  “Euro-zone banks have been an ongoing concern for the
market, so the fact that there is coordination between the ECB
and the Fed to lend dollars to the banks provides some solace to
the market,” said  Shane Enright , technical currencies analyst
at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit
in Toronto. “There does seem to be a willingness to do what it
takes.”  The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.6 percent to
98.36 cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with
98.93 cents yesterday. It touched 98.31 cents, the strongest
level since Sept. 8. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0167.  Europe ’s 17-nation currency traded at C$1.3650, up 0.3
percent, after rising earlier as much as 0.8 percent to
C$1.3715, the highest level since Sept. 9.  Trading in Range  “Markets are hesitant,”  Camilla Sutton , chief currency
strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “The Canadian dollar is
just trading within its broader range and can’t really seem to
break out on either side.”  The loonie has traded since Sept. 5 against the U.S.
currency between 98.30 cents and C$1.0027, the weakest level
since January.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.7 percent, while
Canada’s benchmark S&P/TSX Composite Index advanced 1.1 percent.
Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, gained. October futures rose
as much as 1.4 percent to $90.15 a barrel in  New York  before
trading at $88.40, up 0.6 percent.  Government bonds dropped, sending yields on Canada’s
benchmark 10-year notes as much as 11 basis points higher, or
0.11 percentage point, to 2.31 percent. It was the biggest
intraday jump since Aug. 11. The price of the 3.25 percent notes
due in June 2021 fell 87 cents to C$108.28.  Factory Sales Rise  The loonie also gained versus the  U.S. dollar  after
Statistics Canada data showed manufacturing sales rose in July
more than forecast as energy and metal production rebounded
after plant shutdowns. Sales increased 2.7 percent on a
seasonally adjusted basis to C$46.7 billion ($47.3 billion), the
report showed. A Bloomberg News survey of 21 economists
projected a 1.4 percent gain.  “Finally, the manufacturing sector catches a break,”
Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s
TD Securities unit, said in a note to clients. The report
“diminishes the risk of a recession in Canada and bodes well
for the industry level real gross domestic product figure” for
July and the third quarter, he said.  Canada will have modest growth in the second half of the
year after output shrank from April to June, Finance Minister
 Jim Flaherty  said yesterday.  Volatility in the Canadian dollar versus its U.S.
counterpart fell. One-month implied volatility on the  currency
pair  dropped to 10.4 percent today, from 11.6 percent on Sept.
12, which was the highest level since Aug. 15. Implied
volatility, which traders quote and use to set option prices,
signals the expected pace of swings in the underlying currency.  The loonie advanced 1.1 percent over the past week against
nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The U.S. dollar declined
0.4 percent, while the Australian dollar fell 1.9 percent. The
U.S. is Canada’s biggest trade partner, and  Australia , like
Canada, is an exporter of raw materials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  