-- 
Sino-Forest Options Holders Allowed to Exercise Put Contracts, OSC Rules

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-15T22:37:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/canadian-regulator-agrees-to-modify-sino-forest-cease-trade-ban.html
The Ontario Securities Commission
agreed to modify a temporary trading ban on  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) 
shares to allow some outstanding options to be exercised.  The Canadian Derivatives Clearing Corp. petitioned the
Ontario regulator in a Sept. 14 hearing to allow the exercising
of some put contracts linked to Sino-Forest shares. A put is an
agreement that gives the holder the right to sell a security for
a certain amount by a set date.  Canada’s main regulator said it was “satisfied that it
would not be prejudicial to the public interest” to modify the
order, according to a notice posted yesterday on its  website .  In an order last week, the Toronto-based regulator extended
a trading ban on Sino-Forest shares to Jan. 25 as it
investigates allegations of fraud at the Chinese tree-plantation
operator. The OSC ordered the cease-trade order on Aug. 26 and
said that officers and directors of Hong Kong- and Mississauga,
Ontario-based Sino-Forest may have engaged in acts “related to
its securities” that they “knew or should have known”
perpetrated a fraud.  The change won’t allow holders of put contracts who don’t
already own Sino-Forest shares to buy stock to make delivery
upon exercise, the OSC said. Holders of the put contracts who
are current or former directors or officers of Sino-Forest and
its units, or anyone with more than 10 percent of the company
stock, can’t sell shares under the puts, the regulator said.  Muddy Waters   Sino-Forest’s stock has plunged 74 percent in Toronto since
June 1, the day before short seller Carson Block’s Muddy Waters
LLC published a report alleging that the company overstated its
timber holdings. Sino-Forest has denied Muddy Waters’
allegations and has assigned an independent committee to
investigate the claims, hiring PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to
assist.  The Sino-Forest cease-trade order had prevented holders of
outstanding put contracts from exercising their rights under the
contracts, the CDCC said in a Sept. 12  letter  to the commission.  There are about 8,993 outstanding put contracts, which
collectively entitle the holders to sell about 899,300 Sino-
Forest common shares “at prices substantially in excess of
their current values,” the CDCC said in the letter.  CDCC President and Chief Clearing Officer Glenn Goucher
said Sept. 14 that “a significant component” of the put
contracts are held by individuals rather than companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at   sfrank9@bloomberg.net . 