-- 
Carstens Says Peso to Pare Decline Against Dollar on Mexican Fundamentals

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 
2011-09-15T18:37:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/carstens-says-peso-to-pare-decline-against-dollar-on-mexican-fundamentals.html
Mexico ’s economic fundamentals mean
the peso should pare its two-month slide against the dollar,
limiting its inflationary impact on the economy, central bank
Governor Agustin Carstens said.  “At some point, the peso will have to revalue again,”
Carstens said today at the  Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit  in New
York City. “It is not advisable to assess the monetary
conditions of Mexico” on the current exchange rate.  The  Mexican peso  has fallen 10 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  since the start of July, the worst performer among major
Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg. That represents
a loosening of monetary conditions, which won’t necessarily
continue, Carstens said.  The central bank board voted unanimously to keep the
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged on Aug. 26, while signaling it
may follow  Brazil ’s lead and alter monetary policy if economic
conditions deteriorate, the meeting’s minutes showed. The bank
kept the overnight rate at 4.5 percent for a 21th straight
meeting.  “The balance of risks in Mexico still calls for a
relatively neutral monetary policy, which is precisely where we
stand today,” Carstens said. “There may be circumstances in
the future that calls for lower rates.”  The circumstances include a deterioration in the global
economy and a loosening of the U.S. monetary stance, which would
strengthen the peso, he said.  The bank remains comfortable with its forecast for economic
growth of 3.8 percent to 4.8 percent this year, following
“relatively good” economic data in the past few months,
Carstens said.  “The Mexican economy is showing some resilience,” the
central bank governor said. Growth may be a “little bit
higher” than the 3.5 percent forecast in the budget for next
year.  Carstens, 53, took over as central bank governor in January
2010, pledging to maintain a “stable currency.” Within a
month, he announced a program to boost international reserves.  “We feel very comfortable with the  exchange rate  regime,”
he said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York City at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 