-- 
Central Banks Seeking Quick Fix Push Dollar Cost to August Lows

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-15T16:39:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/central-banks-seeking-a-quick-fix-push-u-s-dollar-costs-to-august-lows.html
Policy makers’ decision to offer
unlimited dollar loans pushed the cost for European banks to
fund in the U.S. currency back to levels at the end of August,
indicating markets view the measures as a short-term fix.  “This has done a trick,” said  John Raymond , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in London. “Whether it’s done the trick is
another matter. The underlying issue of  Greece  is still there.”  The cost of converting euro payments into dollars, measured
by the three-month cross-currency basis swap, plunged 16.8 basis
points to 81.9 below the euro interbank offered rate in London.
That’s after the  European Central Bank  and peers in the U.K.,
 Switzerland ,  Japan  and the U.S. said they’ll provide unlimited
three-month money to lenders in three tenders starting October.  The central banks acted after dollar funding dried up for
European banks in general, and French lenders in particular,
amid concern Greece is headed for a default.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) 
and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA had their long-term credit ratings cut
one level this week by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited
their reliance on short-term funding and Greek exposure.  “If you think that Greece is going to default, as I do,
and that the individual governments and central bankers are
going to do all they can to prevent the problems getting out of
control, this is a consistent step” by the central banks, said
Peter Tchir, founder of hedge fund TF Market Advisors in  New
York . “They may as well put in place as many things as possible
in advance of a default,” he said.  One-Year Swaps  The one-year cross-currency basis swap was at minus 62.1
basis points, from minus 75.2 basis points on Sept. 13.  A gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend to each other in
 Europe  fell for a third day, while staying within seven basis
points of the highest level in 2 1/2 years.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between three-month
Euribor and overnight indexed swaps, was at 77.6 basis points,
from 79.6 yesterday. The gap was at 84.6 basis points on Sept.
12, the highest since March 2009.  Two banks this week borrowed dollars from the ECB in its
seven-day operation, a sign they were finding it difficult to
access the U.S. currency in the markets as Europe’s debt crisis
makes financial institutions more wary of lending. The ECB
allotted $575 million in its seven-day dollar operation
yesterday, without naming the banks it lent to.  ‘Running Sore’  The dollar shortage for European banks had “become a
running sore for the markets and for individual banks,” said
Roger Francis, an analyst at Mizuho International Plc in  London .
The problem “was getting worse and worse all the time,” he
said.  The cost of insuring European bank debt plunged by the most
since at least March after today’s coordinated central-bank
action, though it only fell to the lowest level in a week,
according to credit-default swap prices.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on the senior
debt of 25 banks and insurers dropped 22 basis points to 263,
the lowest since Sept. 8, while the subordinated index was down
44.5 basis points at 473.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.9 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Stocks rose in the U.S., with the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index increasing as much as 1.3 percent to a more than one-week
high of 1,200.  “The power of this regards market confidence,” said  Peter Chatwell , a strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment
Bank in London. “The central banks are working together to
deliver policy responses, so the market will gain confidence
that if more easing is required in a concerted fashion, then it
will be delivered.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  