-- 
CEZ Shares Decline After CEO Roman’s Unexpected Resignation

-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-09-15T12:08:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/cez-drops-after-ceo-roman-s-unexpected-resignation-announcement.html
CEZ AS (CEZ)  snapped two days of gains
after Chief Executive Officer Martin Roman said he was leaving
his post at the largest Czech power utility.  The stock fell as much as 1.6 percent and traded down 0.7
percent to 762 koruna as of 2:05 p.m. in Prague. CEZ was the
second-worst performer in the  Czech Republic ’s benchmark PX
index of companies, which rose 1 percent.  Roman, who has been at the helm of state-run CEZ for over
seven years, said yesterday after the stock market closed he
will quit his post and will become the head of CEZ’s supervisory
board, according to an e-mail from the company. Roman will be
replaced by Chief Operating Officer Daniel Benes, Prime Minister
Petr Necas told today’s edition of Mlada Fronta Dnes newspaper.  “We regard the sudden resignation of the CEO, who led the
company during its biggest boom, as negative news for investors,
at least from the psychological point of view,” analysts led by
Milan Vanicek at J&T Banka AS in Prague wrote in a report today.  Roman embarked on an acquisition spree in emerging  Europe 
that turned CEZ into the largest utility in the region. Net
profit increased to 47.2 billion koruna ($2.7 billion) last year
from 8.9 billion koruna in 2003, and the stock price has nearly
quadrupled since Roman’s appointment in February 2004.  CEZ’s supervisory board accepted Roman’s resignation and
will likely appoint Benes as his successor, outgoing supervisory
board Chairman Martin Riman said on public television today.  Acquisitions  While the departure came as a surprise, the fact that Roman
will lead the supervisory board guarantees continuity and should
appease investors, said analysts Miroslav Adamkovic at Komercni
Bank AS and Petr Bartek at Ceska Sporitelna AS.  “I wouldn’t expect any major strategy changes,” Bartek
said in a telephone interview today. “Benes is one of the main
managers who’s been in charge of CEZ’s cost-cutting program, and
he’s worked closely with Roman.”  Like Roman, Benes joined CEZ in 2004. He became COO in
2007, taking over the day-to-day management of the company,
according to CEZ’s website.  CEZ will cut investments abroad and concentrate on the home
market, investing primarily in gas power plants, heat generation
and nuclear power, Benes said in November 2010. Under Roman, CEZ
acquired national networks in  Bulgaria  and Albania and is
building a 600 megawatt wind farm in  Romania .  New Reactors  “The Balkan acquisitions weren’t successful,” said
Komercni Banka AS’s analyst Miroslav Adamkovic. “They have big
problems with the regulator in Bulgaria.”  CEZ, where the government holds 70 percent of the shares,
is choosing a supplier for the construction of two additional
reactors at its Temelin power plant. Areva SA, Westinghouse
Electric Co. LLC and a Russian-Czech group led by ZAO
Atomostroyexport are competing for the contract that could be
worth as much as $12 billion.  Roman’s departure “ends one era of CEZ’s development,
associated mainly with acquisitions abroad, and starts another,
the main theme of which will be the expansion of the Temelin
nuclear power station,” Necas told Mlada Fronta Dnes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova at   lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague  at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  