-- 
Chi-X Europe Overtakes LSE as Region’s Biggest Stock Market

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-09-15T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/chi-x-europe-overtakes-lse-as-region-s-biggest-stock-market.html
Chi-X  Europe  Ltd. became the
largest European stock market by turnover in August as it signed
up customers and upgraded technology during the worst month for
the region’s equities since October 2008.  Chi-X Europe processed 213.8 billion euros ($293 billion)
of security transactions last month, overtaking  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , which handled 205.2 billion euros, according
to data from the Federation of European Securities Exchanges.
 NYSE Euronext (NYX)  had 166 billion euros and  Deutsche Boerse  AG, with
which it’s planning to combine, turned over 152.3 billion euros,
according to  FESE .  Volume surged in August as the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600
Index posted its biggest monthly loss since October 2008,
plunging 10 percent. LSE said trades jumped 73 percent last
month from a year earlier.  “We still have a long way to go, this is just the
beginning,” said Chi-X Europe’s Chief Executive Officer
Alasdair Haynes in an interview. “As we have grown and
liquidity has grown on our markets, more and more people are
realizing they have to connect to us.”  Chi-X Europe, founded in March 2007 and owned by banks and
brokers, is in talks to be acquired by Bats Global Markets, the
operator of the second-largest alternative trading system in
Europe. The merger was referred to the U.K. Competition
Commission in June and the regulator is due to issue a report by
Dec. 2.  Bats Europe, based in  London , had 56.8 billion euros of
turnover, FESE said. Turquoise, which LSE owns in partnership
with some of the banks and brokers that also own Chi-X Europe,
had 65.6 billion euros, the monthly figures showed.  Stock-Exchange Consolidation  Chi-X’s lead comes as  stock exchanges  seek to merge.
Regulators are examining the deal between Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Boerse and the owner of the New York Stock Exchange,
which would create the world’s biggest stock market.  The European Commission opened an expanded probe into the
deal, which would put more than 90 percent of the region’s
exchange-traded derivatives market and about 30 percent of
European  stock trading  in the hands of one organization. The
regulator cited concerns over reduced innovation in derivatives
products and technology.  Chi-X Europe was the first alternative trading platform in
Europe to compete with traditional exchanges such as LSE and
Deutsche Boerse by offering lower fees and faster trading.  The trading platform is partly owned by Instinet LLC, a New
York-based unit of Nomura Holdings Inc., and by investment banks
and traders including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Getco LLC, Bank of
America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley. Bats is owned
by Bank of America, Citigroup, Getco, Credit Suisse and Morgan
Stanley, among others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  