-- 
Chile Central Bank Likely to Keep Key Rate at 5.25% as Global Outlook Dims

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-09-15T13:33:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/chile-central-bank-likely-to-keep-key-rate-at-5-25-as-global-outlook-dims.html
Chile ’s central bank probably will
keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged for a third straight
month today after policy makers narrowed growth forecasts and
cut inflation estimates on the deteriorating global outlook.  The five-member board, led by bank President Jose De Gregorio, will keep the overnight rate at 5.25 percent,
according to all 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
decision will be announced after 5 p.m. New York time. The bank
paused in July and August after raising rates in 2011 faster
than any rate-setting country tracked by Bloomberg other than
Belarus.  The highest interest rates in more than two years have
helped rein in inflation estimates, giving policy makers the
freedom to keep borrowing costs on hold as they assess global
economic developments. Chile is unlikely to follow the lead of
 Brazil , which cut rates last month, until the global slowdown
becomes more pronounced.  “Changing rates now would be rushed because there isn’t
enough data to make an accurate decision on how the situation
abroad will impact us,” said Cristobal Doberti, an economist at
Bice Inversiones in Santiago. “The bank most likely will keep
rates on hold for the rest of the year.”  Policy makers, who raised borrowing costs 13 times in 14
months before holding at their July 14 meeting, will keep rates
unchanged this year before cutting to 5 percent by March and
4.75 percent by September, according to the median estimate of
49 traders and investors in a central bank survey released
yesterday.  Swap Rates  Chile’s three-month  interest rate  swap, which reflects
traders’ views of average borrowing costs, fell 2 basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.20 percent at 8:02 a.m. New York
time from yesterday.  The inflation rate will decline to 3 percent next year from
3.3 percent this year, according to a separate poll of 65
economists conducted by the central bank this month. The economy
will also decelerate in 2012, growing 4.7 percent after
expanding 6.5 percent in 2011, the survey showed.  The survey is in line with central bank forecasts that
inflation and GDP growth rates will fall next year as the global
economy decelerates.  ‘External Impulse’  “The external impulse that the Chilean economy will
receive in coming quarters will be lower than previously
estimated,”  De Gregorio  told Senators in Valparaiso on Sept. 7.
“The external scenario also has brought about major
modifications in the inflationary outlook, especially in the
short term.”  The central bank estimated this month that inflation would
slow to 2.9 percent next year from 3.3 percent this year. The
bank, which targets 3 percent inflation, had expected consumer
prices to grow 4 percent this year in its June report.  One-year breakeven inflation, which reflect views of
average price increases and is derived from the gap between
nominal and inflation-linked yields, declined 7 basis points to
2.52 percent as of 9:14 a.m. New York time.  Inflation accelerated to 3.2 percent in August from 2.9
percent in July. The economy expanded 4 percent last month from
the same month in 2010, its slowest pace since the aftermath of
the February 2010 earthquake that caused $30 billion of damage
in the $200 billion economy.  As the global economy weakens, policy makers have changed
their outlook from the first half of the year when they expected
borrowing costs to reach as high as 6 percent in 2011, De
Gregorio told Senators in Valparaiso.  On Hold  “The monetary policy rate has reached ranges considered to
be normal,” De Gregorio said. “The base scenario supposes that
in the short term the monetary policy rate will be similar to
its current level.”  The central bank reduced the upper range of its 2011 GDP
growth estimate to 6.75 percent in its Sept. 7 report from 7
percent. Policy makers forecast economic growth of 4.25 percent
to 5.25 percent in 2012.  “The negative tail risk associated with the performance of
the global economy has clearly increased, while the outlook for
domestic inflation has improved significantly,”  Alberto Ramos ,
a senior Latin America economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
said in a Sept. 13 report. “We expect the central bank to take
time to carefully assess global developments and not to rush
into a rate cut.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 