-- 
Chile Keeps Rate at 5.25% as Global Price Pressures Ease

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-09-15T21:18:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/chile-keeps-rate-at-5-25-as-global-inflation-pressures-ease.html
Chile ’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged today for the third straight
month after inflation estimates declined on concern that the
global economic recovery is slowing.  The five-member board, led by bank President Jose  De Gregorio , held the overnight rate at 5.25 percent, matching the
forecast of all 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Today’s decision leaves Chile with the third-highest
interest rate among  Latin America ’s major economies after Brazil
and  Argentina . Since the central bank last raised rates in June,
policy makers have reduced inflation estimates, narrowed growth
forecasts and raised the possibility of rate cuts if the global
economy deteriorates.  “The central bank has now established a neutral bias and
is likely to be comfortable with remaining on hold,”  Alberto Ramos , a senior Latin America economist at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., said in a Sept. 13 report. “We expect the monetary policy
council to act flexibly going forward and to entertain the
possibility of adding monetary stimulus to the economy.”  The bank will keep rates unchanged through December before
cutting at least twice next year, according to the median
estimate of 49 traders and investors in a central bank survey
published yesterday.  Policy makers in the statement accompanying today’s
decision omitted language in communiques published before August
about the possibility for “additional increases” in borrowing
costs, saying instead that “future changes in the monetary
policy rate will depend on the implications of domestic and
external macroeconomic conditions.”  Growth Forecasts  The central bank on Sept. 7 cut its global growth forecast
to 3.9 percent for 2011 and 4 percent for next year from 4.1
percent and 4.5 percent, respectively, in estimates published in
June.  “Activity indicators confirm a slower pace of growth in
the  United States  and  Europe ,” the central bank said in today’s
statement.  Policy makers also on Sept. 7 reduced the upper end of
their 2011 growth forecast for Chile to 6.75 percent from 7
percent and see the economy expanding 4.25 percent to 5.25
percent in 2012.  “The biggest impact of the change in the external scenario
will be seen in 2012 growth,” De Gregorio told Senators on
Sept. 7 after publishing the new forecasts. “The external
scenario also has brought about major modifications in the
inflationary outlook, especially in the short term.”  Slowing Down  Policy makers cut 2011 inflation estimates to 3.3 percent
this month from 4 percent in their June report. Consumer prices
rose 3.2 percent in August and 2.9 percent in July, according to
government data. The central bank targets 3 percent inflation
with a 1 percentage point margin of error over two years.  “Inflationary expectations are located around the
target,” according to today’s statement.  Chile’s economy grew 4 percent in July from the previous
year, the slowest pace of expansion since the aftermath of the
8.8-magnitude February 2010 earthquake, after climbing 8.4
percent in the first half of the year.  “Activity and demand data show signs of moderation,”
policy makers said today.  Growth will decelerate in the second half, with GDP
expanding less than 5 percent from the previous year as the
global economy slows and possibly falls into recession, Finance
Minister Felipe Larrain said in a Sept. 13 speech in Santiago.  “We are not bullet-proof or immune from what is happening
in the rest of the world,” he said. “I can’t make guarantees
about what will happen abroad, because that doesn’t depend on
us, but I do want to say we are doing all we can to have a
contingency plan ready if conditions are worse than expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 