-- 
China Households’ Inflation Expectations Rebound, PBOC Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-15T03:06:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/china-households-inflation-expectations-still-strong-pboc-says.html
Chinese households’ inflation
expectations rebounded this quarter and the number complaining
that property prices are too high rose to a record, a central
bank  survey  showed.  The People’s Bank of  China ’s report found 49.6 percent
believe consumer prices will rise in the next quarter, 4.1
percentage points more than in the previous three months. An
index of inflation expectations also climbed, according to the
survey posted to the central bank’s website today.  Today’s report indicates it may be too early for policy
makers to wind down monetary tightening that’s included five
interest-rate increases over the past year. The central bank
said this week that stabilizing overall  price levels  remains the
top priority of macro-economic regulation as factors driving
inflation haven’t been eliminated.  “Inflation has peaked but the level remains a concern,”
 Shen Minggao , a Hong Kong-based economist at Citigroup Inc. said
before the report. “We do not expect generalized loosening of
monetary policy.”  The central bank said in today’s statement that
“expectations for future price increases remain strong.”. An
index of “inflation expectation” rose 2.6 points to 74.8,
after dropping 0.5 points in last quarter’s survey, it said.  Households’ willingness to spend “remains at a low level,
more prefer to save and fewer prefer to invest,” the PBOC said,
citing “the current levels of consumer prices,  interest rates 
and income.”  Inflation Peaked  The benchmark one-year deposit rate of 3.5 percent has
lagged behind inflation for 19 months.  The central bank quarterly survey covers 20,000 urban
households in 50 cities.  Consumer-price increases in August slowed to 6.2 percent
from a year earlier, down from a three-year high of 6.5 percent
the previous month. Economists at banks including Citigroup,
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. and Macquarie Securities Ltd. say
inflation probably peaked in July.  The proportion of households surveyed who say overall
prices are “too high to accept” rose to 72 percent from 68.2
percent in the previous quarter, according to today’s statement.  The number who said property prices are too high rose to
75.6 percent, the highest since the PBOC survey started
including real-estate data in the first quarter of 2009. The
proportion of households who plan to buy property next quarter
dropped 0.4 percentage point to 14.2 percent.  Interest-Rate Expectations  A separate PBOC survey of bankers in about 3,000
institutions showed fewer executives expect interest rates to
rise in the fourth quarter. A total 56.4 percent of bankers see
interest rates rising, down 11.8 percentage points from the
previous survey.  A third survey of 5,000 entrepreneurs found that 50.6
percent expect lending rates to be “relatively high” in the
fourth quarter, 6.1 percentage points more than that in the
previous survey. Some 39.5 percent of entrepreneurs said they
expect the availability of loans to be “tight” over the next
three months.  --Li Yanping, with assistance from Huang Zhe, Victoria Ruan in
Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  