-- 
Resource Grab Costs to Rise as Yields Hit Highest Since ’08: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-16T02:33:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/china-development-yield-at-three-year-high-on-resource-grab-china-credit.html
The highest funding costs since
2008 may make it more expensive for  China ’s state banks to lend
to commodity producing nations, as the world’s fastest-growing
major economy tries to secure natural resources to fuel growth.  Five-year borrowing costs for the so-called policy banks
surged 70 basis points to 4.6 percent this year and touched a
three-year high of 4.68 percent on Aug. 4, Chinabond prices
show. Top-rated Indian lenders pay 9.45 percent on their five-
year debt, compared with 8.94 percent at the end of 2010, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The government relies on China Development Bank Corp. and
Export-Import Bank of China to lend to resource-rich nations
such as Brazil, Kazakhstan and  Venezuela  in exchange for
commodity and energy supplies. Borrowing costs surged after the
central bank raised  interest rates  to control inflation and
lenders increased provisions against loans for local
governments. The value of banks’ dollar loans are falling as the
yuan strengthened 3.3 percent against the currency in 2011.  “Foreign exchange and rising funding costs are working
against them and yields are probably decreasing on loans,
especially if they are U.S. dollar,” said  Mike Werner , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  Hong Kong . While the
profits of policy banks will “be hurt in the current
environment,” their lending supports government policies and is
“still beneficial to the overall economy,” he said.  ‘Overseas Settlement’  Export-Import Bank of China will lend more overseas using
the yuan rather than the  U.S. dollar , Liu Liange, a vice
president at the bank, said in an interview yesterday.  “It’s not only a problem Exim bank has, it’s also a
problem greatly affecting Chinese companies with overseas
business,” he said at the World Economic Forum in Dalian.
“Right now we are thinking of ways to solve this, including
using yuan for overseas settlement. This is something we’ll be
doing in the future.”  China Development Bank, China’s second-largest bond issuer
after the  Finance Ministry , sold 18 billion yuan ($2.8 billion)
of 10-year notes at a coupon rate of 4.87 percent on Sept. 5,
Bloomberg data show. That compares with the 3.74 percent rate on
20 billion yuan of similar-maturity securities issued in April
last year.  The Beijing-based bank reported currency-related losses of
18.98 billion yuan in 2010, versus gains of 862 million yuan in
2009, according to its annual report released in June. Each one
percentage point appreciation in the yuan causes a foreign-
exchange loss of 5.54 billion yuan for the lender, it said. The
loans are counted as assets on the banks’ balance sheets and a
rising yuan diminishes the value of foreign-currency lending.  Oil Shipments  China Development Bank  lent $134.6 billion in foreign
currency last year, the most of any Chinese bank, Chairman  Chen
Yuan  said in May. The lender signed a $2 billion loan with
Ecuador in June and completed a $20.6 billion oil-for-loans
agreement with Venezuela in August last year.  Venezuela’s oil shipments to China are approaching 400,000
barrels a day, President Hugo Chavez said in comments carried by
state television earlier this week after he and Chen met in
Caracas.  The lender has sold 715 billion yuan of local-currency
bonds in China this year, compared with 850 billion yuan in
2010, according to its annual report and Bloomberg data.  “China Development Bank’s cost of bonds has continually
increased, which will impact their cost of capital,” said Fan Wei, a Beijing-based fixed-income analyst at Hongyuan Securities
Co. “It will have a negative impact on their profit and on
their new loans and the loan rate will be higher.”  China Exim Bank  Funding costs are also rising for Export-Import Bank of
China, which has sold 281 billion yuan of bonds this year,
Bloomberg data show, compared with 189 billion yuan in 2010,
according to its annual report.  The Beijing-based policy lender known as China Exim Bank
sold 20 billion yuan of five-year bonds on Aug. 9 at a coupon of
4.37 percent, versus 3.98 percent on 26.73 billion yuan of
similarly dated notes in December, Bloomberg data show.  The bank approved 436.4 billion yuan of lending last year,
and total outstanding loans stood at 874.7 billion yuan as of
2010, China Exim Bank said in its annual report. That’s more
than 14 times the amount lent by Export-Import Bank of India
with $9.6 billion of outstanding loans, while Export-Import Bank
of  Korea  has $35 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Latin America ,  Africa   China Exim Bank had outstanding loans in Latin America of
50 billion yuan at the end of August and 200 billion yuan in
Africa, its Vice President Zhu Xinqiang said in an interview in
Beijing on Sept. 13.  Among them is a 9.85 billion-shilling ($103.6 million) loan
to  Kenya  agreed in June. The East African nation is rated B+ by
 Standard & Poor’s , four levels below investment grade.  “There are 53 countries and we have business in 45
countries” in Africa, Zhu said. The lender invites “Chinese
insurance companies to join us,” he added, when asked how it
controls credit risks.  The extra yield investors demand to own five-year bonds
sold by policy banks instead of similar-maturity government debt
has widened to 69.6 basis points, or 0.696 percentage point,
from 36 basis points at the end of last year, according to
Chinabond. The spread reached 84.9 on July 20, the widest since
June 2008.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Export-Import Bank of
China increased 143.4 basis points this year to 265.9 basis
points, while contracts on China Development Bank rose 172.4 to
294.8, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Local Government Loans  The policy lenders, set up to support the government’s
economic development goals, are also “major providers” of
loans to local government finance units, according to a central
bank report issued on June 1. S&P estimates that as much as 30
percent of China’s lending to local governments may go sour,
while Moody’s Investors Service said on July 5 that regional
authorities may owe about 14 trillion yuan.  Werner of Sanford C. Bernstein estimates China’s policy
banks have 2.6 trillion yuan of loans outstanding to local
government financing vehicles, according to a July 4 report.  The cost to protect China’s sovereign debt against default
jumped the most in two years in August and was last at 130.3
basis points as of Sept. 14, CMA prices show. Default-swaps pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Fighting Inflation  The People’s Bank of China raised the benchmark one-year
lending rate five times since the middle of October 2010, with
the latest increase in July lifting borrowing costs to 6.56
percent. Inflation, which slowed to 6.2 percent in August from a
three-year high of 6.5 percent the previous month, must be
stemmed even with the threat of a global slowdown, Premier Wen Jiabao said on Sept. 14.  The yield on China’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose 16 basis
points to 4.05 percent this quarter. That’s 200 basis points
more than the rate for similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries.  The yuan is the only currency among the biggest emerging
nations to strengthen against the dollar this quarter. Known as
the renminbi in Chinese, the yuan has climbed 1.3 percent versus
the dollar since June 30, while  India ’s rupee dropped 6 percent
and  Russia ’s ruble and the Brazilian real each slumped 8.4
percent.  ‘Financial Strength’  China’s economy  grew 9.5 percent in the second quarter, the
slowest pace since 2009, as faltering growth in developed
nations cooled demand for the country’s exports. Expansion will
slow to 8.7 percent in 2012, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Oil and gas was the company’s
biggest import in July, followed by pulp, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The  U.S. economy  will grow 2.2 percent next year, while
 Europe  will expand 1.15 percent, the surveys show.  “China can easily finance any overseas trade and
investment it wishes to undertake,” David Marshall, an analyst
at research firm CreditSights Inc. in  Singapore , said by e-mail.
“It is even better able to do this now as China’s relative
economic and financial strength has grown enormously” since the
global financial crisis following the 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  