-- 
China Southern A380 Spearheads Challenge to Cathay Pacific

-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-09-16T10:25:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/china-southern-challenges-cathay-pacific-by-adding-a380-on-overseas-routes.html
China Southern Airlines Co.’s focus
on domestic flights made it Asia’s largest carrier by
passengers. Now, it’s adding Airbus SAS A380s to help challenge
 Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  on
routes to  Europe  and  North America .  The carrier, which flew 76.5 million passengers last year,
will begin flying the first of five superjumbos next month. It
will be the seventh operator worldwide and the only one in
China. The double-decker planes will spearhead the state-
controlled company’s drive to more than double the percentage of
capacity deployed on overseas routes to 35 percent by 2015, said
Yang Bo, the head of its planning department.  “Flying A380s will put us in a completely different
league,” he said, declining to name routes for the 506-seat
aircraft before a Sept. 20 event. “We hope to use the planes to
build a good brand image and to raise our profile overseas.”  The carrier has added services to Vancouver, Auckland and
Amsterdam this year as it boosts international capacity 33
percent and tries to develop Guangzhou airport into a global hub
rivaling Hong Kong less than 200 kilometers (125 miles) away.
 Air China Ltd. (601111)  and China Eastern Airlines Corp. are also
boosting overseas flights as economic growth means the number of
Chinese travelers flying abroad this year may rise 13 percent to
65 million, according to the state-run  China National Tourism
Administration .  ‘Amazing Position’  “The Chinese carriers are in an amazing position,” said
 Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce. “They
have got the scale that will make them huge and I think they
will be a big challenge for the Middle Eastern carriers as well
as the Asian carriers.”  China Southern will fly its first A380 from Oct. 18 to Oct.
28 on routes between  Shanghai , Beijing and Guangzhou to test
operations and promote the aircraft before moving it onto
international routes. The  superjumbos  will have eight first-
class seats, 70 in business and 428 in coach.  The airline plans to boost its total fleet to 645 planes by
the end of 2015 from 424 planes as of June. Its other on-order
planes include Airbus A330s and A320s, as well as 10 Boeing Co.
787s.  The carrier fell 0.4 percent to HK$4.68 at close of  Hong
Kong  trading today. It’s dropped 1.7 percent this year, compared
with a 36 percent decline for Cathay Pacific and a 17 percent
drop for Air China, the nation’s largest international carrier.
Qantas has tumbled 37 percent in Sydney.  Australia  Flights  Qantas is already competing with China Southern, as the
Chinese airline is boosting Australia services as part of its
intercontinental push. Similar drives in Europe and North
America will follow, partly to offset competition from high-
speed trains on domestic routes, Yang said, without elaboration.  The carrier will offer 42 flights a week to Australia and
 New Zealand  from November when it begins services to Perth. It
already flies to Sydney,  Brisbane , Melbourne and Auckland,
mainly using Boeing 777s and Airbus A330s. Cathay flies at least
once a day to six Australian cities from Hong Kong. Qantas
serves Hong Kong and Shanghai from Australia.  ‘Aggressive Expansion’  “China Southern’s aggressive expansion will definitely hit
Cathay and other Australian routes operators,” said Kelvin Lau,
a Hong Kong-based Daiwa Securities Group analyst. “Still, a new
player may grow the overall market.”  The effectiveness of the China Southern A380s in winning
premium passengers will depend upon the quality of cabins and
other facilities, said Qantas’ Joyce. The Australian airline
operates superjumbos, along with Singapore Airlines, Air  France ,
 Emirates Airline , Korean Air Lines Co. and Deutsche Lufthansa
AG.  Qantas is setting up a new airline in Southeast  Asia  and
another in  Japan  to target China travelers, while Delta Air
Lines Inc. and  American Airlines  have also boosted China flights
because of rising demand. Cathay Pacific is refitting business-
class cabins, introducing premium-economy seating and adding new
long-haul planes.  “We deal with competition by ensuring that we provide the
most competitive products and services,” the Hong Kong-based
carrier said by e-mail.  Singapore Airlines plans to add flights to more small
cities in China, as well as increasing services to major
destinations like Shanghai and Beijing, Chief Executive Officer
Goh Choon Phong said this week in Toulouse, France.  Lounges, Chauffeurs  China Southern has renovated business lounges and added
chauffeur services to lure premium travelers. The changes helped
it win the  title  of world’s most improved carrier at this year’s
SkyTrax awards, which are voted on by more than 18.8 million
travelers worldwide. The airline has a four-star rating from the
review company, the same as Air  China , Qantas and British
Airways. Cathay Pacific and Singapore Air both have five stars,
while American and Delta each hold three.  China Southern  flew a total of 3.9 million passengers on
international routes in the first eight months of the year, 16
percent more than a year earlier. On domestic routes, passenger
numbers rose 4.2 percent to 48.5 million, while capacity rose
5.6 percent. The carrier also flew 1.2 million travelers on Hong
Kong, Macau and Taiwan routes.  The rise in international passenger numbers has come at the
cost of margins. On overseas routes, the airline’s yields, a
measure of average fares, were 5 percent lower in the first half
of this year than in the second half of last year even as fuel
costs rose, UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. analysts K. Ajith and
Eugene Ng said in a Sept. 13 note. That contributed to operating
margin falling to 6.1 percent from 10.6 percent in the same
period, they said. The analysts reiterated a ‘sell’ rating.  Profit Jump  Still, China Southern boosted first-half net income 33
percent in the first half to 2.76 billion yuan ($432 million) on
rising domestic travel and currency gains from the stronger
yuan.  “Profitability is the last thing China Southern considers
in overseas expansion,” said Li Lei, a Beijing-based China
Securities Co. analyst. “The priority is to grab more market
share.”  The airline has won overseas travelers in Guangdong, its
home province, which has become China’s biggest by economic
output because of investments from companies including  Procter &
Gamble Co ., Toyota Motor Corp. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  supplier Foxconn
Technology Group.  Sherming Ma, 30, a Guangzhou-based associate manager for a
U.S. food company flew to Moscow in June with China Southern
after paying 2,099 yuan ($330) for a round-trip ticket. This
month, she booked a trip to Australia with the carrier to avoid
having to take a three-hour bus ride to Hong Kong.  “The Moscow price was so attractive that I actually asked
a flight attendant how could they make money out of it,” Ma
said. “There’s no way I’ll be trudging down to Hong Kong again
if I can avoid it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  