-- 
GM, Chrysler Return to UAW Bargaining After Contract Extensions

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-09-15T20:13:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/chrysler-offers-to-work-past-labor-contract-deadline-correct-.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler
Group LLC, bailed out by the U.S. in 2009, negotiated today with
the  United Auto Workers  for four-year labor deals after failing
to meet a deadline yesterday to reach new accords.  The union, which pledged not to strike either automaker,
continued negotiations with GM and Chrysler into this afternoon,
the companies each said in e-mails. While GM and the UAW didn’t
set a new deadline for an agreement or turning to binding
arbitration, Chrysler Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne 
offered in a letter to UAW President  Bob King  to let teams
negotiate for one more week.  Marchionne criticized King for not meeting with him last
night to settle the final economic issues. The deadline had been
known since they pleaded together for government aid, he said.
While Chrysler is the third-largest U.S. automaker, its 26,000
employees are “more relevant” than larger social issues that
are “close to your heart,” Marchionne said.  “You and I failed them today,” Marchionne wrote in the
letter obtained by Bloomberg News. “We did not manage to agree
to a set of simple conditions that would have given certainty
and peace of mind to 110,000 actives and retirees.”  The UAW represents 113,000 production employees at Fiat
SpA-controlled Chrysler, GM and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  The Detroit-based
UAW and Ford on Sept. 13 agreed to extend their contract while
negotiations continue. All the companies originally had
deadlines of 11:59 p.m. yesterday.  Sticking Points  Talks may have stalled over the amount of the signing
bonuses or the union’s desire to raise entry-level wages, said
Arthur Schwartz, president of Labor & Economics Associates, a
consulting firm in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan . If the union settles too
quickly, the membership may think that negotiators didn’t fight
hard enough and vote against a tentative agreement, he said.  “It makes no sense for the union to settle early because
they never get everything they want,” Schwartz said. “So why
would they settle early? That could be a ratification issue.”  The UAW proposed signing bonuses of $8,000 to $10,000 for
each member, four people familiar with the discussions said last
week.  Michele Martin , a spokeswoman for the UAW, has denied the
union is seeking such large bonuses.  GM and the UAW negotiated past 1 a.m. this morning before
resuming at 10 a.m. A tentative agreement with GM may set a
pattern for Chrysler and Ford.  “We are hopeful that an agreement can be reached soon,”
the union told members in a message on UAW websites. “While we
have made significant progress, we have not been able to secure
a new agreement that we would recommend for ratification.”  Marchionne’s Flight  Marchionne said in his letter that he flew back from the
Frankfurt motor show to complete a new labor deal. King couldn’t
be present due to “competing engagements,” the letter said.
The two sides were down to a few issues, “primarily involving
the economics of our employees for the next four years,”
Marchionne said in the letter.  Marchionne, who is also CEO of Fiat, expressed his
frustration that the UAW and Chrysler, which required U.S.
government assistance to get through its 2009 bankruptcy,
couldn’t come to terms after negotiating since July.  “We argued and pleaded, together, to be given a second
chance to put Chrysler right,” Marchionne wrote in the letter.
“And we even agreed that, were we still around in 2011, that we
would not go back to the old adversarial and confrontational
ways of the past to resolve unsettled matters. Until now, there
have been encouraging signs of a new paradigm governing the
relationship between us.”  The two sides haven’t yet agreed on “procedures for
arbitration,” he said.  Strike Bans  UAW members at GM and Chrysler agreed to a strike ban for
these negotiations as part their U.S.-backed bankruptcies. Any
unresolved issues are subject to binding arbitration. Ford did
not receive a U.S. bailout and didn’t enter bankruptcy. UAW
members at the automaker rejected a no-strike pledge and
arbitration.  GM rose 52 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $22.70 at 4:01 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen about a third since the initial public offering in
November when they sold for $33. The U.S. Treasury Department
owns 32 percent of GM. Ford gained 31 cents, or 3 percent, to
$10.63.  The key issues in the talks are signing bonuses, increasing
wages for new hires and investments to secure future work at
U.S. plants. GM executives have said that they want to tie
compensation to company performance targets, which the union has
traditionally opposed.  Workers at Ford have filed an “equality of sacrifice”
grievance against the automaker after salaried workers received
raises, tuition assistance and 401(k) matches last year. An
arbitration hearing on that dispute was held today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  