-- 
Chrysler’s $38,000 Booming Highway Hauler Recalls Swagger Era

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-09-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/chrysler-s-38-000-booming-highway-cruiser-recalls-1951-jason-h-harper.html
Do you miss the era when full-size
cars like the Chrysler New Yorker and Cadillac Eldorado
shouldered down Route 66? That was a time when supplies of heavy
steel and even heavier leaded gasoline seemed limitless.  The type of sedan that easily accommodates three across on
bench seats has largely gone the way of cheap gas, but the yen
for a highway hauler remains. Which may explain the success of
the first-generation Chrysler 300, a no-apology example of old-
school American swagger.  This year brings the second-generation 300, a car that
almost wasn’t.  Fiat SpA (F)  helped pull Chrysler from the brink, but
the question remains: Does the 300 have its groove back?  A number of the Chrysler Group’s autos have undergone
desperately needed updates, including the generally reviled
Sebring -- now the 200 -- and the Town & Country minivan.  The latest 300 is more a car for 1951 than 2011, but that’s
why I like it. Much of its DNA is derived from the decades when
drivers considered a jaunt down the highway a thrill.  (Suggested retail starts at $38,170 for the V-8 and $27,170
for the V-6. A high-performance SRT8 model will follow).  Big Cruiser  Booming along in my silver, V-8, Hemi engine-equipped 300C
-- 363 horsepower-worth -- I rather wished I had a fedora to tip
to the women as I whooshed by.  (A note on the 300’s Americanness: My test car’s final
assembly was in Ontario,  Canada , and the engine’s origin was
 Mexico . And of course Fiat is Italian.)  The original 300 was so big and blocky it seemed like its
designers had begun whittling away at the clay model only to go
on a break and, upon returning, decide they were finished.  This version is more subtle, mostly because the oversized
grill has wisely been reigned in. Still, it’s a big cruiser of a
car.  The obvious upside is loads of room. The cabin is
expansive, though the rear headroom in my test car was impacted
by the panoramic sun roof, a $1,295 option. The trunk is
cavernous, too.  Big Wheel  The interior, a black mark on the previous model, is
demonstrably better. Nicer to the eye and the finger pads. Most
of the updating can be found inside, including snazzier gauges
and better craftsmanship. The steering wheel is mega-sized, with
the top half in wood, a nod to big cars of yore.  I realize we live in an XXL world, but the too-wide
driver’s seat left me sluicing between the bolsters. And some
parts are still dull and disposable-feeling.  The new Chrysler navigation system is dead easy to use,
though it won’t allow you to program in new destinations on the
go. It’s simple to connect your cell phone to Bluetooth, change
the temperature or radio stations. The font size on the
touchscreen is big and easy to read.  The 300C’s home is the wide open road. The wider and more
open the better. The 300C does not care for turns, or,
particularly, for stopping. The brakes feel anemic compared with
the rolling mass of this thing. They are not linear enough,
which can result in jerky stops in stop-and-go traffic.  Rolling Hills  At one point I found myself on tight, rolling hills, many
off camber. Every time a curve tightened, so did my throat. Once
the 300 sets on a driving line, it sticks to it, the steering
wheel be damned.  Yet I also took on the most pitted patch of asphalt in all
of  Pennsylvania , a road that would have knocked me senseless in
a tightly-sprung sports car. The 300 rolled over it completely
unperturbed. This suspension can take a beating.  That’s because it is supposed to be on the freeway anyhow,
where it just cruises and cruises. It’s quiet, with no tire
noise, despite the large quantity of air that blocky nose is
forcing out of the way.  Dip the gas pedal and the engine gives off a nice sound of
American metal. Not quick, exactly, but purposeful. Just
remember that you have all that car behind the driver’s seat if
you like weaving in and out of traffic.  Changing Gears  The Hemi may be the engine of choice for some, but the 3.6-
liter V-6 gets a not-exactly-shabby 292 horsepower. And an
excellent sign that Chrysler is on the right track: The 2012 V-6
model will get an eight-speed transmission. Impressive, since
the current models only have five. The transmission on the Hemi
will be unchanged.  The eighth gear will kick in during highway cruising, the
300’s sweet spot, winning an extra four more miles per gallon
over the 2011 model, for 31 mpg.  A little less gas hoovering, a lot of space and a love of
the open road. It’s a highway hauler for today.  The 2011 Chrysler 300C at a Glance  Engine: 5.7-liter V-8 Hemi with 363 horsepower and 394  pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Five-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 5.5 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 16 city; 25 highway.  Price as tested: $44,730.  Best features: Spacious interior and relative comfort.  Worst feature: Lack of finesse on tight roads.  Target buyer: Highway haulers.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 