-- 
Citigroup Slows Hiring to Only Critical Jobs as Slump Continues

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-09-15T12:33:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/citigroup-slows-hiring-to-only-critical-jobs-as-economic-slump-continues.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, will limit hiring to only “critical” jobs as the
economic slowdown continues and revenue slumps.  The plan will apply to Citigroup’s trading and investment-
banking units worldwide as well as consumer banking and global
transaction services, Shannon Bell, a spokeswoman for the New
York-based bank, said in a phone interview. The bank had 263,000
employees at the end of the second quarter.  Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit is trying to control
costs as weakening consumer confidence and high unemployment
threaten profit.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
have each announced plans to slash 30,000 jobs while firms
including Lloyds Banking Group Plc and  UBS AG (UBSN)  have also
announced headcount reductions.  “In light of the current environment and our ongoing
efforts to tightly manage expenses, we are currently only
filling positions we believe are critical to the line of
business or function,” Bell said.  Citigroup has tumbled 42 percent this year through
yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, underperforming the
24-company  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , which is down 27 percent. Expenses at
the bank rose 8 percent to $25.3 billion for the first half of
2011, compared with the same period last year. Chief Financial
Officer John Gerspach told analysts in July that expenses for
the year would be higher than previous forecasts.  Citigroup previously announced plans to add branches
overseas and more than double staff in  China  to 12,000 as
Pandit, 54, seeks to boost the bank’s presence in emerging
markets. The bank has also hired about 40 managing directors
this year for its investment-banking unit.  Pandit has eliminated more than 100,000 workers from the
bank’s payroll since he became CEO in December 2007 through
layoffs and sales of distressed assets and businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  