-- 
Clegg’s ‘More Assertive’ Party Meets, Risks U.K. Tories’ Anger

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-09-15T23:01:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/clegg-s-more-assertive-party-meets-risks-u-k-tories-anger.html
The Liberal Democrats, the junior
party in U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government, start
their  annual conference  tomorrow seeking to rebuild support as
tensions with their coalition partners rise.  Party leaders will aim to emphasize how they’ve made their
mark on government policy, overcoming a referendum defeat on
their long-cherished goal of overhauling the electoral system in
May on the same day they suffered local-election losses across
Britain. They will look to build on a history of successful
grassroots campaigning to reverse a drop in opinion-poll backing
to below 10 percent of the electorate.  “The coalition is a work in progress; we’re learning and
we’ve become more assertive,” Norman Lamb, adviser to Deputy
Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , told reporters before the five-day
conference in Birmingham, central England. “We had a rough time
in May, but it’s a chance to discuss the implications of that.
It’s time to reinvigorate the party as a campaigning party.”  That increased assertiveness has angered Conservative
lawmakers and activists, who accuse the smaller party of
blocking Cameron’s plans to overhaul the National Health Service
and hobbling Tory policy on  Europe , tax and human rights.  “The Liberal Democrats make up 8.7 percent of this
Parliament and yet they seem to be influencing our free-school
policy, health and many issues including immigration and
abortion,” Conservative lawmaker Nadine Dorries said in a
question to Cameron in the House of Commons on Sept. 7. “Does
the prime minister think it is about time he told the deputy
prime minister who is the boss?”  ‘Yellow Tories’  Cameron didn’t attempt to answer the question, and its tone
may help the Liberal Democrat leadership make its case that they
have not become “yellow Tories,” as the opposition  Labour
Party ’s education spokesman,  Andy Burnham , has described them,
in a reference to the traditional Liberal color.  Liberal Democrats opposed a proposal by Dorries, supported
by some Conservative ministers in Parliament this month, that
would have prevented organizations that perform abortions from
providing counseling to women seeking them.  “The Nadine Dorries line is quite helpful to the
leadership” of the Liberal Democrats, said  Andrew Russell ,
professor of politics at Manchester University and author of
“Neither Left Nor Right,” a history of the party. “Annoying
people like her is a badge of honor to them,” Russell said in
an interview.  Human Rights Act  A  poll  last month for the Conservative Home website found
that 72 percent of Tory party members blamed the government’s
failure to repeal the Human Rights Act, which enshrines European
human-rights law in U.K. legislation, on the Liberal Democrats.  Sixty-one percent said their junior partners were
preventing a cut in inheritance tax or the 50 percent top tax
rate on income over 150,000 pounds ($237,000) a year. The
website surveyed 1,348 party members on Aug. 25 and 26. No
margin of error was given.  Delegates at the Liberal Democrat Spring Conference in
Sheffield on March 12  backed a motion  condemning the
government’s proposed overhaul of the management of the  National
Health Service . Three weeks later, Conservative Health Secretary
Andrew Lansley announced a “pause” so the plans could be
redrawn. At next week’s conference, there will be an hour-long
debate on the NHS changes, though without a vote, avoiding a
repeat of those events.  ‘Being the Opposition’  “Clegg is likely to play up the idea that he’s being the
opposition to the establishment from within government,” Mark
Pack, who worked for the party between 2000 and 2009, said in an
interview in London. “Within the Liberal Democrats, there’s
very little sense that being in coalition is the wrong thing.
The debate is all around how it should be conducted.”  In the May local elections, 748 of the Liberal Democrats’
3,568 council representatives in  England  lost their seats -- 21
percent of the total. Labour took control of Clegg’s own city,
Sheffield. In contrast, the Conservatives gained 85 seats as
their junior partners became what Lamb called “human shields,”
soaking up the punishment of voters angry at the government’s
spending cuts, the biggest since World War II, to trim the
 budget deficit .  The Liberal Democrats also lost the referendum on changing
the way lawmakers are elected, one of their conditions for
joining the coalition, by 68 percent to 32 percent. The campaign
saw Liberal Democrat ministers pitted against their Conservative
colleagues, who backed the status quo and sanctioned personal
attacks on Clegg. Liberal Democrat Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne 
compared their tactics to those of the Nazi propaganda chief,
 Joseph Goebbels .  ‘Moderating Voice’  After the results, Clegg said there would be a “louder
Liberal Democrat voice” in government. “We’ve got to show
people where we are a moderating voice on the Conservatives,”
he told the  BBC .  “The people who felt worst on May 6 weren’t the leadership
or the MPs, but the councilors who’d lost their seats and the
activist base; the cost of being in coalition is being felt most
strongly by them,” Manchester’s Russell said. “There will be
kickback, but it will be typically Lib Dem in its texture, it
will be griping at fringe events” at the conference.  A sign of the adjustments the party is having to make as a
result of being in government will come in a debate on Sept. 18.
Delegates, in defense of “hard-won British freedoms,” will be
asked to “condemn the system of police accreditation” for the
conference, which meant they had to be security-screened before
attending.  Delegates will also return to the regular conference
subjects of electoral reform, this time for the House of Lords,
and the liberalization of drugs policy, alongside a debate on
the Arab spring and speeches from government ministers.  “The party’s not going to be euphoric, but I think its
mood will be good, determined. There are no views out there in
the party calling for us to leave the coalition,” Lamb said.
“It’s tough, it’s challenging for the party, but the right
thing is to see it through.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  