-- 
CMC of Kenya Falls Most in Two Weeks on Directors’ Dispute

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-09-15T12:39:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/cmc-holdings-of-kenya-falls-second-day-on-directors-dispute.html
CMC Holdings Ltd. (CMCH) , Kenya’s biggest
publicly traded auto dealer, declined the most in two weeks
after the company said it was overcharged for services offered
by a logistics company run by its former chairman.  Ex-chairman Peter Muthoka said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday the allegations are “utterly inaccurate and not based
on fact.”  The stock fell 3 percent to 12.90 shillings by the 3 p.m.
close in the capital, Nairobi, the biggest drop since Sept. 1.  CMC Chief Executive Officer Bill Lay told reporters in
Nairobi yesterday the company had been overcharged as much as 2
billion shillings ($21 million) over the past five years by a
freight-forwarding company run by Muthoka.  “There is a bit of uncertainty that is causing investors
to be jittery about the discussions,” Eric Musau, a research
analyst at Nairobi-based Standard Investment Bank Ltd., said by
phone today.  Andy Forwarders Services Ltd. , the largest supplier of
services to CMC, overcharged the company in some instances by as
much as 100 times the market rate, Lay said. Muthoka, who was
replaced by Joel Kibe as chairman of CMC on Sept. 9, said he was
consulting his lawyers and may take legal action over Lay’s
statements.  Kenya ’s  Capital Markets Authority  began a probe into the
dispute between directors of the company, said Kungu Gatabaki,
chairman of the regulator. The authority also urged CMC to
appoint independent directors to avoid similar disputes in
future, Gatabaki told reporters today in Nairobi.  “We invited the members of that board this morning to see
how best we can help them solve the issues,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 