-- 
Colombia’s Spy Scandal Turns Uribe Against Former Ally Santos

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-09-15T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/colombia-s-spy-scandal-turns-uribe-against-former-ally-santos.html
A widening spy scandal in Colombia
is heightening tension between its two most powerful politicians
as former President Alvaro Uribe’s legacy comes under fire by
his handpicked successor’s anti-corruption drive.  Uribe, after backing  Juan Manuel Santos ’s election last
year, has become his fiercest critic. In  Twitter  postings, he’s
criticized key legislation, rising crime and Santos’ outreach to
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez . His strongest rebuke is for
the government’s handling of allegations that Uribe’s  DAS 
intelligence agency tapped phones to spy on judges, journalists
and political opponents during his eight-year rule.  Uribe’s criticisms are a distraction that will make it
harder for Santos to govern, said Senator Armando Benedetti, who
has been an ally of both men. While it hasn’t yet dented
Colombia’s economic performance, the tension could damage
Santos’s hold on his base and interfere with initiatives such as
returning land taken from farmers by guerrillas and paramilitary
groups, according to analysts including  Adam Isacson  of the
Washington Office on  Latin America .  “As the government uncovers more and more, Uribe will take
a more radical position against Santos,” said Benedetti, who
until July was the president of  congress . “It’s going to get
tough. Uribe will question everything in ways we haven’t seen
before.”  For now, investors have shrugged off the feud. The
government says the $288 billion economy may expand 6 percent in
2011. The peso has gained 4.4 percent this year, the second best
performance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after the Czech koruna, as foreign direct investment
jumped 60 percent from a year ago to $5.8 billion through May.  Market Performance  Bogota’s benchmark IGBC stock index has declined 12.5
percent this year, the smallest drop among  South America ’s five
biggest bourses, which have all fallen. The yield on the
benchmark peso bond due July 2024 is down 83 basis points at
7.33 percent.  Since allegations of illegal spying surfaced in Colombian
media in 2009, more than 20 officials from the intelligence
agency have been arrested, several of them Uribe allies. In
July, Uribe’s chief of staff, Bernardo Moreno, was jailed in
connection to the chief federal prosecutor’s investigation days
after another top aide, former agricultural minister Andres
Felipe Arias, was arrested in a separate criminal probe for
allegedly favoring political cronies with irrigation subsidies.  Yesterday, former DAS chief Jorge Noguera was  sentenced  to
25 years in jail for allowing paramilitary death squads to
infiltrate the agency and obtain intelligence on activists and
union leaders who they later killed. Noguera ran Uribe’s 2002
campaign in a state near the Caribbean coast.  Noose Tightens  As the noose tightens around Uribe’s inner circle, the
former president has become more vocal. After Moreno’s arrest,
he said in a message posted on Twitter that he was “deeply
pained” by what he called the “abuse” of justice. Arias’s
arrest he called a “publicity stunt” fueled by “hate.” Both
have denied any wrongdoing while they await trial.  “It’s all too close for comfort,” said  Michael Shifter ,
president of the Washington-based  Inter-American Dialogue .
“It’s increasingly difficult for Uribe to disassociate himself
from the corruption cases.”  Santos, who served as Uribe’s  defense minister , has refused
to respond, promising instead to strengthen the rule of law. In
July, he signed a law aimed at rooting out corruption by
toughening campaign financing rules.  “I have a new mantra,” Santos, 60, said during an
interview on RCN Television Aug. 3. “Don’t fight with Uribe.
Don’t fight with Uribe. Don’t fight with Uribe.” Santos has
repeatedly said that Uribe isn’t being investigated. The former
president denied any involvement in the spying in testimony to
lawmakers, who are weighing whether there is enough evidence to
charge the former president.  Uribe and Santos didn’t respond to requests for an
interview or provide comments when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Uribe’s Rating  Santos may be ignoring Uribe at his own peril, said
Benedetti. The former president left office with a 75 percent
approval rating, after crushing Marxist guerrillas who used to
control large swaths of territory. Between 2002 and 2010
kidnappings and  murders  fell 90 percent and 46 percent
respectively, helping to fuel an  investment  boom.  The Revolutionary Armed Forces of  Colombia , originally a
peasant insurgency, grew in numbers and firepower in tandem with
its involvement in Colombia’s cocaine trade in the 1990s.
Paramilitary groups formed by ranchers to protect against
guerrilla raids were also corrupted by the drug trade, though
their leaders demobilized as part of an Uribe-brokered peace
deal in 2006 that has been criticized by human rights groups.  Polarized Electorate  If relations between the two men deteriorate further, it
could split the pro-business vote and stoke divisions between
the countryside and richer urban areas in a nation already
polarized along class lines, said Isacson.  Uribe may take advantage of divisions within the opposition
to become Santos’ chief adversary, said Felipe Botero, a
political science professor at Bogota’s Universidad de los
Andes.  Santos, whose family founded Bogota’s biggest  newspaper ,
angered Uribe by pushing for a land program that would return
property stolen during the country’s half-century conflict.
Uribe, a lawyer and cattle rancher, opposed such policies while
in office.  Outreach to  Venezuela   Uribe also opposes Santos’s outreach to Chavez and the
government’s harder line against human rights abuses by the
military. Santos restored relations with Venezuela, Colombia’s
second-biggest  trading  partner, which Chavez severed after Uribe
accused him of harboring rebels.  Dozens of Uribe backers in  congress , including his cousin,
former Senator Mario Uribe, have been removed from office or
jailed in recent years for allegedly conspiring with
paramilitary groups.  Opposition lawmaker Ivan Cepeda has asked the federal
 prosecutor  to open a probe into Uribe’s sons, Tomas and
Jeronimo, for ties to paramilitaries. Uribe in turn has called
Cepeda a “moral assassin” and friend of the guerrillas.  “Investigations are no longer just against his lawmakers,
they are now being made into his ministers and his home,” said
Cepeda. “It’s so hard to see all of this happening without
Uribe’s knowledge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  