-- 
Congo Sells Stake in Former First Quantum Mines

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-09-16T07:17:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/congo-sells-30-stake-in-ex-first-quantum-mines-to-virgin-island-companies.html
(Corrects estimated value of stake in second paragraph of
story published on Sept. 15.)  A  Democratic Republic  of Congo
state-owned miner sold shares in copper projects formerly run by
 First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  to two British Virgin Island-
registered companies, according to the  Ministry of Mines .  Sandro Resources Ltd. and Garetto Holdings Ltd. bought
Sodimico’s 30 percent share in the Frontier and Lonshi mines for
$30 million on March 28, according to contracts published on the
 ministry’s website  today. The purchase price was less than a
sixteenth of the stake’s estimated value, according to
calculations by London-based Numis Securities Ltd. and Oriel
Securities Ltd.  Sodimico Chief Executive Officer Laurent Lambert Tshisola
Kangoa announced the sale in an interview on July 28 without
naming the buyers.  Sodimico repossessed the Lonshi and Frontier projects from
First Quantum after Congo’s  Supreme Court  decided in May 2010
that the Vancouver-based company illegally obtained the rights
to the concessions, which previously belonged to Sodimico. First
Quantum is fighting the cancellation at the International Centre
for Settlement of Investment Disputes in  Washington .  The contracts stipulate that Sandro and Garetto pay
Sodimico $20 million initially and $10 million either within
four months of signing or not later than three days of selling
the properties to a third party. Kangoa declined to say if the
properties had been resold or if Sodimico had been paid in full
in an interview by phone today from Lubumbashi.  Declines to Comment  Laurent Okitonembo, who is listed as the representative of
Sandro in the contracts, declined to comment when reached by
phone today in Kinshasa, the Congolese capital. Contact details
for Garetto’s representative, Ghislain Mukonkole, were not
immediately available. Congo’s Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu 
did not reply to requests for comment by mobile phone message.  Recent unannounced sales of Congo’s mining stakes have been
criticized by Congolese and international organizations. On
Sept. 13, EurAc, a network of European non-governmental
organizations that advocate for Central Africa, said in an e-
mailed statement it was “concerned” that Congolese “public
mining resources have been secretly sold to private actors in
the absence of any competition and at below-market prices.”  ‘Political’ Decision  Numis Securities valued Frontier at about $1.6 billion and
Lonshi at $400 million in a research note last year, while Oriel
Securities in September valued Frontier at $1.4 billion and
Lonshi at $250 million.  Kangoa said on July 28 that the decision to sell Sodimico’s
stake was “political” and that it was “debatable” if the $30
million purchase price was a proper valuation.  Frontier was Congo’s largest taxpayer in 2009, when it
shipped about 94,000 metric tons of copper and had $439 million
in revenue, according to First Quantum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 