-- 
U.S. Consumer Price Increases Probably Slowed

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-15T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/consumer-prices-in-u-s-probably-rose-at-slower-pace-in-august.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably rose at a slower pace in August as energy prices fell,
economists said before a report today.  The consumer- price index  increased 0.2 percent after a 0.5
percent gain in July, according to the median forecast of 84
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The so-called core gauge,
which excludes volatile food and fuel prices, may also have
climbed 0.2 percent for a second month.  A drop in raw-material costs last month make it easier for
companies like Lowe’s Cos. to hold the line on price increases
as they compete for consumers coping with stagnating incomes and
employment. Less inflation also gives Federal Reserve officials
leeway to take additional measures if necessary to keep the
economy from faltering.  “Weak demand conditions are likely to keep prices in check
over the intermediate term,” said  Russell Price , a senior
economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit . “Growth has
clearly overtaken inflation as the primary economic risk.”  The Labor Department’s price data are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from declines of 0.2
percent to gains of 0.4 percent.  Other reports today may show manufacturing contracted in
the New York and Philadelphia regions this month, industrial
production was little changed nationwide in August. Figures from
the Labor Department may show first-time jobless claims at a
level that indicates limited improvement in the job market.  Bernanke on Inflation  The consumer price report may underscore Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke ’s comments last week to the Economic Club of
 Minnesota  that central bank officials expected inflation to slow
as prices for oil and other commodities ease.  Crude  oil prices  have fallen 7 percent since the end of
July on concerns about the global economic expansion. The cost
of a gallon of regular gasoline at the pump averaged $3.62 in
August, down from $3.65 a month earlier, according to data from
AAA, the nation’s largest motoring group.  “We see little indication that the higher rate of
inflation experienced so far this year has become ingrained in
the economy,” Bernanke said. “Inflation is expected to
moderate in the coming quarters,” he said, citing the waning of
“transitory” influences like high fuel prices and global
supply disruptions linked to  Japan ’s March earthquake and
tsunami.  Recent data have shown the  U.S. economy  is stumbling.
Retail sales were unchanged in August, the economy generated no
jobs and earnings fell.  The projected increase in CPI would mean prices climbed 3.6
percent over the past year for a fourth straight month.  Lowe’s Cos.  Lowe’s, the second-largest home-improvement retailer, has
been negotiating with vendors to minimize costs while passing
some increases onto consumers.  “Our approach is to negotiate as hard as we can to the
lowest cost possible,” Robert Gfeller, executive vice president
for merchandising at Lowe’s, said in a teleconference Sept. 7.
“Where we have taken (increased) pricing, we have moved some
through to retail.”  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  is among carmakers offering lower prices
after inventories recovered following Japan’s earthquake. The
Toyota City, Japan-based automaker is starting a blitz of U.S.
model releases, some of them with cheaper price tags, to regain
sales lost to rivals such as Hyundai Motor Co. after three years
that included recession, recalls and the earthquake.  Toyota last month unveiled the 2012 Camry in Hollywood,
 California , with price reductions ranging from $200 to $2,000 on
the top-end, four-cylinder Camry,  Bob Carter , group vice
president of U.S. sales, said in an interview.  Factory Figures  Fed figures at 9:15 a.m. are forecast to show industrial
production was unchanged in August after a 0.9 percent gain in
July, according to the Bloomberg survey median. A regional Fed
report, released at 8:30 a.m., will show New York-area factories
shrank in September for a fourth month, according to forecasts.
Another regional Fed bank report, slated for 10 a.m., may show
Philadelphia-region manufacturing contracted at a slower rate.  Jobless claims probably fell to 411,000 last week from
414,000 the prior week, economists forecast the Labor Department
will report at 8:30 a.m.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 1.6 percent in July from a year earlier after
climbing 0.9 percent in 2010. Fed policy makers aim for long-run
overall inflation of 1.7 percent to 2 percent, according to
their June forecast.  The CPI is the broadest of three monthly price measures
from the Labor Department because it includes goods and
services. About 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers
pay for services ranging from medical visits to airline fares
and movie tickets.  A Labor Department report yesterday showed the producer-
price index in August were unchanged, while the cost of goods
excluding fuel and food rose 0.2 percent. Import prices in the
U.S., reported Sept. 13, dropped 0.4 percent from the prior
month as oil and food expenses retreated.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  