-- 
U.S. Consumer Prices, Jobless Claims Exceed Forecasts, Hurting Confidence

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-15T20:12:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/consumer-prices-in-u-s-increase-0-4-core-gauge-rises-0-2-.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
climbed more than forecast and unemployment claims rose,
battering the confidence of Americans squeezed by stagnant wages
and higher prices of food, housing and energy.  The consumer-price index increased 0.4 percent in August,
and jobless claims climbed by 11,000 to 428,000 in the week
ended Sept. 10, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index held last week
at the second-lowest level of 2011 as the most households in
three years said it was a bad time to spend.  Unemployment stuck around 9 percent may prompt consumers to
keep cutting back, hurting sales at companies like Best Buy Co.
and prompting Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to
consider additional measures to spur growth when central bankers
meet next week. A report from the Fed today showed
manufacturing, a mainstay of the recovery, continued to support
the economy last month.  “The inflation numbers have to raise concern but growth is
going to be any policy maker’s main concern right now,” said
Kurt Rankin, an economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc.
in Pittsburgh. “The recovery is just north of stagnant.”  Stocks rallied after the  European Central Bank  announced
new liquidity measures in cooperation with the Fed. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.7 percent to 1,209.11 at the 4 p.m.
close in  New York .  Economists projected a 0.2 percent gain in consumer prices,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
84 economists.  Rents, Gasoline  The results included a 0.4 percent jump in rents, the most
since June 2008. Shelter costs climbed 0.2 percent. Energy costs
increased 1.2 percent from a month earlier, and gasoline prices
climbed 1.9 percent.  Companies such as Mooresville, North Carolina-based Lowe’s
Cos., the second-largest home-improvement retailer, are
contending with rising costs and weak demand. The company has
been negotiating with vendors to keep prices down while passing
some increases onto consumers.  “Our approach is to negotiate as hard as we can to the
lowest cost possible,” Robert Gfeller, executive vice president
for merchandising at Lowe’s, said in a teleconference Sept. 7.
“Where we have taken (increased) pricing, we have moved some
through to retail.”  Today’s report showed inflation-adjusted hourly wages fell
0.6 percent in August, the most since July 2008, and were down
1.9 percent from the same month a year ago.  Confidence Ebbs  The wage squeeze is taking a toll on  consumer confidence .
The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was minus 49.3 in the
period to Sept. 11, near this year’s low of minus 49.4 reached
in May. The buying climate gauge slumped to the lowest level
since October 2008.  “The consumer is making very measured choices,” Best Buy
Chief Executive Officer Brian Dunn said in a Sept. 13 telephone
interview. “I don’t think it’s a year where someone is going to
buy a TV and a tablet and a new smartphone and go to
Disneyland.”  Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy, the world’s largest
consumer-electronics retailer, this week cut its full-year
earnings forecast and reported a 30 percent decline in second-
quarter profit.  Jobless claims climbed to the highest level since the end
of June in a week that included the Labor Day holiday, a Labor
Department report showed. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected a drop in claims to 411,000, according to the median
forecast.  Pressure on Obama  Bank of America Corp. and Cisco Systems Inc. are among
companies planning to keep trimming payrolls, raising the risk
that  consumer spending  will stagnate. Signs the labor market is
struggling to gain traction puts more pressure on President
 Barack Obama , lawmakers and the Fed for additional steps to spur
the economy.  Bernanke said policy makers will discuss the tools they
could use to boost the recovery at their next meeting Sept. 20-
21 and stand ready to use them if necessary.  Fed officials “are prepared to employ these tools as
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery in the
context of  price stability ,” Bernanke said in a Sept. 8 speech
Minneapolis.  “We see little indication that the higher rate of
inflation experienced so far this year has become ingrained in
the economy,” he said, citing the waning of “transitory”
influences like high fuel prices and global supply disruptions
linked to  Japan ’s March earthquake and tsunami.  Jobs Plan  Obama announced a jobs plan before a joint session of
Congress on Sept. 8, calling for an extension of a payroll-tax
break for Americans and unemployment assistance. He also pushed
for a payroll tax break for small businesses, an increase in
infrastructure spending and more aid for cash-strapped state
governments.  Manufacturing remains a pillar of growth as overseas demand
and capital spending by American companies keep assembly lines
busy.  Output at factories, mines and utilities climbed 0.2
percent after a 0.9 percent gain in July, today’s Fed report
showed. Economists had forecast no change, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Factory production, which makes up 75 percent of the total,
advanced 0.5 percent. Mining, which includes oil drilling,
increased 1.2 percent. Utility output dropped 3 percent, as
temperatures moderated from the prior month, after a 2.8 percent
gain.  Automakers are recovering after a temporary shortage of
parts following the earthquake and tsunami in Japan that
constrained sales and production.  The output of motor vehicles and parts increased 1.7
percent after a 4.5 percent jump a month earlier, today’s report
showed. Excluding autos and parts, manufacturing climbed 0.4
percent after a 0.3 percent July increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  