-- 
Coppola Chokes Up Over Son; Hirsch’s Head Bashed by Pumpkin Can

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/coppola-chokes-up-over-son-hirsch-s-head-bashed-with-pumpkin-can-movies.html
Francis Ford Coppola  was sleeping
when he got the idea for his new gothic horror film “ Twixt .”  “I had this dream in Istanbul, and it was particularly
vivid,” he told reporters at the Toronto International Film
Festival. “It was like the story in the movie. Then the call to
prayer woke me up and I was very frustrated because I wanted to
see what the dream had in store for me.”  “Twixt” is about a hack novelist (Val Kilmer) who
stumbles onto a small-town murder mystery during a book tour. He
encounters the ghosts of a local girl ( Elle Fanning ) and Edgar Allan Poe (Ben Chaplin), who once lived there.  The writer is haunted by the death of his daughter, who was
killed in a boating accident that is shown in a flashback.
Coppola, whose oldest son Gian-Carlo died in a speedboat mishap
in 1986, became teary-eyed when talking about the scene at a
press conference.  “Every parent feels they’re responsible for whatever
happens to their kids,” he said. “I should have been there for
my son.”  Coppola made four films in the 1970s that were nominated
for best-picture Oscars: “The Godfather” and “The Godfather:
Part II,” which both won, plus “The Conversation” and
“Apocalypse Now.”  No More ‘Godfather’  He’s had a rocky career since then, with many of his movies
dismissed as artistic and financial failures. “Twixt” has
gotten a harsh reception from critics in Toronto, including a
Hollywood Reporter review that called it “third-rate” and
“his silliest work.”  “One of the things I most frequently hear is, ‘The films
you’re making now are not as good as the films you were making
30 years ago,’” Coppola said. “My answer is, ‘Those films you
think were so good were not received well.’”  Coppola, 72, said “The Godfather’ got a “terrible
review” in Variety and that cultural critic Frank Rich said
‘Apocalypse’ was a monumental disaster. So Coppola won’t be
surprised if opinions of “Twixt” change decades from now.  “I’m not going to be around in 30 years, so I’m never
going to know,” he said.  Asked if he would consider making a fourth “Godfather”
film, Coppola pointed to a drinking glass on the table in front
of him and said: “I have as much interest in a gangster movie
or another ‘Godfather’ film as I have in this glass of water --
and I’m not thirsty.”  Friedkin’s ‘Killer’  William Friedkin, another director whose career peaked in
the 1970s, was at the festival promoting his new film “ Killer
Joe .” It was written by Pulitzer-winning playwright Tracy Letts, adapting his own play about a drug dealer (Emile Hirsch)
who hires a hit man ( Matthew McConaughey ) to kill his mother for
insurance money to pay off his debts.  “Killer Joe” is a scintillating black comedy with some
shocking violence, including a scene where McConaughey bashes
Hirsch’s head to a bloody pulp with a pumpkin can.  “There is violence throughout society,” Friedkin, 76,
said. “I grew up with it as a child in  Chicago , where I lived
in a one-room apartment with my mother and father. There were
family arguments and fights and stabbings all the time in that
apartment building.”  Friedkin, whose classics include “The Exorcist” and “The
French Connection,” said those films wouldn’t get made today by
a major studio.  “The audiences have changed,” he said. “They’re
conditioned by television, and television is aimed at the lowest
common denominator.”  Letts agreed.  “Bill is an adult who makes adult films for adult
people,” he said. “I think that the guys who run the show have
figured out that they can make more money by basically selling
comic books to people. When I was a kid, comic books were for
kids. Now I guess it’s what everyone wants.”  ‘Last Gladiators’  Alex Gibney’s “ The Last Gladiators ” is a powerful
documentary about hockey enforcers, the tough guys whose main
job is to beat up opposing players. It focuses on Chris Nilan, a
former Montreal Canadiens brawler who became a drug addict after
his playing days ended.  Though three current or former National Hockey League
enforcers died young in recent months, Nilan said the tragedies
aren’t related.  “They can study this until they’re blue in the face, but I
don’t think they’ll ever find a connection with hockey,” Nilan
told the audience following the film’s premiere in Toronto.  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in Toronto at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 