-- 
Copper Advances as ECB Announcement Eases Debt-Crisis Concerns

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-09-15T16:46:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/copper-advances-as-ecb-announcement-eases-debt-crisis-concerns.html
Copper rose in New York, rebounding
from the lowest close since Nov. 30, as concerns about Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis eased after the  European Central Bank  said
it would lend dollars to euro-area banks.  The ECB will lend dollars in three separate three-month
loans to ensure banks have enough U.S. currency this year. The
euro jumped more than a cent against the dollar after the
announcement, making the dollar-denominated commodities cheaper
in terms of other monies. Copper also rose after industrial
output in the U.S. unexpectedly rose in August.  The ECB action, which it said was coordinated with the
 Federal Reserve , the Bank of England, the Bank of  Japan  and the
Swiss National Bank, “has boosted the markets,”  Edward Meir ,
an analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in Darien,  Connecticut ,
said by phone.  “More than anything else it shows that there is a good
degree of international cooperation,” he said, adding the
markets might expect “further collaboration.”  Copper for December delivery advanced 5.9 cents, or 1.5
percent, to $3.957 a pound by 12:44 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York . Copper for three-month delivery climbed 1.2 percent to
$8,736.25 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange.  Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities climbed 0.2
percent after a 0.9 percent gain in July, figures from the
Federal Reserve showed today. Economists had forecast no change,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Mine Strikes  Workers at Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s Peruvian
unit will continue a strike today with government-brokered wage
talks scheduled to resume today, Luis Castillo, Mining
Federation general secretary, said yesterday by phone. In
Indonesia, about 8,000 non-staff workers at the company’s
Grasberg mine began a one-month strike, union official Virgo
Solossa said.  Southern Copper Corp., the largest producer of the metal in
Peru and Mexico, cut its production forecast by about 8 percent
on lower ore grades at three of its mines, said Oscar Gonzalez
Rocha, chief executive officer.  Zinc, lead, aluminum, nickel and tin rose in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  