-- 
Croatian Opposition Vows Tax Cuts, Incentives to Aid Economy

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-09-15T13:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/croatian-opposition-vows-tax-cuts-incentives-to-boost-economy.html
Croatia ’s opposition bloc vowed to
lower taxes and contributions on wages to make the country more
competitive and attract investors if it wins power in December
elections.  The poll-leading Alliance for Change said it will offer tax
incentives to companies and investors to create jobs, lower
taxes on reinvested profit, keep the kuna stable and seek lower
 interest rates , according to the bloc’s first policy statement
ahead of Dec. 4 elections.  “We’re not afraid to fight for changes, together with
Croatian citizens,”  Zoran Milanovic , head of the strongest
opposition party, the  Social-Democrats , told reporters today.  Croatia is preparing to become the European Union’s 28th
member in July 2013. If the  Social Democrats  and other three
opposition parties that form the Alliance for Change succeed in
ousting incumbent Premier  Jadranka Kosor , they would inherit an
economy emerging from the longest recession since the breakup of
 Yugoslavia .  The Alliance for Change had 35 percent support in an Aug.
26 IPSOS-Puls survey of 1,000 people. The ruling  Croatian
Democratic Union , that led Croatia for 16 out of the last 20
years, had 20 percent support. No margin of error was given.  Priorities  Increasing industrial production would be a “priority,”
as well as making the Adriatic nation less dependent on imports
and reviving industries such as shipbuilding and energy,
Milanovic said.  He warned changes would take time. If the bloc wins the
elections, it would seek to eradicate corruption, he added.  Croatia is struggling with a corruption scandal that led to
the arrest of dozens of ruling-party officials including former
Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, who resigned in 2009 and handed
power to Kosor, his former second-in-command.  The nation is recovering from the recession as foreign
direct investment declined to $583 million in 2010 from $6
billion in 2008. Economy grew 0.8 percent in the second quarter
from a year ago, after declining 0.8 percent in the first
quarter and 1.2 percent in 2010.  A lack of foreign investment and deteriorating global
conditions will limit economic growth to about 0.6 percent,
Hrvoje Stojic, chief analyst at Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank d.d, a
local unit of  Austria ’s Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG.,
said on Sept. 5. The government forecast 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  