-- 
Crude Oil Trims Fourth Weekly Advance in New York on European Debt Crisis

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-09-16T13:32:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/crude-oil-futures-decline-in-new-york-trading-brent-premium-to-wti-widens.html
(Corrects month reference in first paragraph.)  Oil slipped in  New York , trimming
its fourth straight weekly gain and longest winning streak since
July, on concern that European plans to solve the region’s debt
crisis may founder, threatening economic growth.  Futures reversed gains as the euro halted a two-day advance
against the dollar on signs that an agreement to bail out  Greece 
may be hindered by collateral requirements by some European
countries. The 17 euro nations accounted for about 12 percent of
global oil demand in 2010, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  “Persistent concerns about the euro zone’s problems
continue to dominate the markets,” said Myrto Sokou, an analyst
at Sucden Financial Ltd. in  London . “The current economic and
political conditions look fairly tentative at the moment.”  Crude for October delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell as much as 98 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $88.42 a
barrel, and was 53 cents lower at $88.87 at 1:39 p.m. London
time. Prices are still up 1.9 percent this week.  Brent oil for November settlement was up 50 cents at
$112.80 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
Exchange. The October contract rose $2.94 to $115.34 yesterday,
when it expired. Prices have risen 44 percent in the past year.  The euro fell 0.9 percent against the dollar, reducing the
appeal of commodities priced in the U.S. currency, after
 Finland ’s Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said an agreement on
collateral is unlikely to be reached at today’s trans-Atlantic
finance meeting in Wroclaw,  Poland .  ‘Coiled Spring’  Brent oil was at a premium of $23.74 to West Texas
Intermediate November futures, compared with a record $26.87 on
Sept. 6 based on front-month settlement prices. Brent, which is
little changed this week, may be headed for $150 a barrel,
according to chart analysis by Citigroup Inc.  “Crude oil looks to be a coiled spring,”  Tom Fitzpatrick ,
the bank’s New York-based chief technical analyst, said in a
research note dated yesterday. A weekly close above $117.60 a
barrel “would suggest a breakout and the possibility of a move
toward at least $150.”  Oil stockpiles in developed nations fell below their five-
year average in July, the first time since the 2008 recession,
and were expected to have fallen further in August, the
 International Energy Agency  said on Sept. 13.  Supply Premium  The lack of supply from  Libya  and production outages in
areas such as the North Sea caused inventories to fall in Europe
and  North America , while Asian companies held less crude than
normal, the IEA said in its monthly report.  Libya will resume partial crude exports within three or
four days, an official from the nation said in Doha yesterday.
The country, holder of  Africa ’s largest oil reserves, will
produce about 700,000 barrels a day by the end of this year and
an estimated 1.6 million barrels a day by the end of 2012,
Abdulla Saudi told reporters yesterday in the Qatari capital.  “Reports of Libya resuming partial crude exports next week
could weigh on Brent, with some of the tight supply premium
removed from prices,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research
at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Melbourne , said
in a note today.  Fighting in the African nation since February has reduced
the availability of light, sweet crude, or oil with low density
and sulfur content. The country’s output fell to 45,000 barrels
a day last month, according to Bloomberg estimates, compared
with the 1.6 million barrels a day the nation pumped in January.  Ichimoku Cloud  U.S. crude inventories slid 6.7 million barrels to 346.4
million last week as Tropical Storm Lee closed platforms in the
 Gulf of Mexico , which accounts for 27 percent of U.S. supply,
according to the Energy Department report. As much as 61 percent
of production was shut, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management,
Regulation and Enforcement said on its website.  New York crude may fall next week on concern that  Europe ’s
debt crisis will remain unresolved, a Bloomberg News survey
showed. Eighteen of 40 analysts, or 45 percent, forecast oil
will decline through Sept. 23, while 13 respondents, or 33
percent, predicted prices will increase.  The decline may be limited to around $85.60 a barrel, the
second of two leading-span lines that define the boundaries of
an “ichimoku cloud” on the weekly chart, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The cloud is an area where buy orders may
be clustered. Investors tend to sell contracts when prices
breach technical-support levels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  