-- 
Crude Oil Advances a Second Day in London on European Support for Greece

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-09-15T12:49:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/crude-declines-for-a-second-day-on-u-s-fuel-supplies-economic-outlook.html
Oil rose for a second day in  London 
after German and French leaders said they’re certain  Greece  will
remain in the euro zone, tempering concern that the region’s
debt crisis will damage fuel consumption.  Brent futures advanced as the dollar weakened against the
euro, bolstering the appeal of commodities to protect against
inflation. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. affirmed its forecast that
oil in London will rally to $130 a barrel next year. The
 International Energy Agency  said it has finished the program of
stockpile releases intended to compensate for supplies lost from
 Libya . Oil pared gains in  New York  after applications for U.S.
unemployment benefits unexpectedly rose.  “Oil is supported, like the equity markets, by everybody’s
hope that the crisis could ease,” said Gerrit Zambo, trader at
 Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich, who predicts Brent will drop
toward $100 a barrel. “If you look at the big picture of
macroeconomic data, there can only be one direction for oil in
the medium term, and that’s to the downside.”  Brent oil for October settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange advanced as much as $2.45, or 2.2
percent, to $114.85 a barrel. It was at $114.43 a barrel at 1:38
p.m. London time. The contract expires today. The more active
November future was up $1.97 at $111.62.  Crude for October delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  was up 10 cents at $89.01 after rising as much as 70
cents to $89.61 a barrel. Brent was at a premium of $25.34 to
U.S. prices, compared with $23.72 at yesterday’s settlement and
a record close of $26.87 on Sept. 6.  Brent Decline Likely  Commerzbank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and  Credit Agricole  CIB
said in reports today that Brent, which has gained 21 percent
this year, is likely to decline as a resumption of output from
Libya becomes more likely.  Brent will probably fall to $100 a barrel by the end of the
year, analysts at Commerzbank AG said, while  Christophe Barret ,
a London-based analyst at Credit Agricole CIB, predicted it will
drop to $92 a barrel in the fourth quarter. HSBC sees the grade
declining to about $90 a barrel next year on ample supplies.  Jobless claims climbed by 11,000 to 428,000 in the week
ended Sept. 10 that included the Labor Day holiday, figures from
the Labor Department showed today in  Washington . Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a drop in claims to
411,000, according to the median forecast.  “ Oil prices  should continue to correct downward in the
next few weeks, in particular if progress continues on the
Libyan front,” Credit Agricole’s Barret wrote.  Falling Demand  The euro strengthened for a second day after French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said they are “convinced” Greece will stay in the currency
union. The currency gained 0.3 percent to $1.3796.  The Energy Department said yesterday gasoline supplies rose
the most since June while fuel use slumped by 3.8 percent.
Gasoline supplies rose by 1.94 million barrels last week,
leaving stockpiles 3.4 percent higher than the five-year
average, Energy Department data showed.  Consumption of the motor fuel dropped 1.2 percent to 8.85
million barrels a day in the week ended Sept. 9, the lowest
since May, the report showed. Supplies of distillate fuel,
including heating oil and diesel, rose by 1.71 million barrels
to 158.8 million, the highest since February.  “The risks of a recessionary event have increased,”
 Allison Nathan , a commodities analyst at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., told reporters in  Singapore  today. While Goldman affirmed
its forecast that Brent will rally to $130 a barrel next year as
emerging markets drive demand for raw materials, “risks to
keeping our constructive view have increased,” Nathan said.  Tropical Storms  Total crude inventories slid 6.7 million barrels to 346.4
million as Tropical Storm Lee closed platforms in the  Gulf of
Mexico , which accounts for 27 percent of U.S. supply. As much as
61 percent of production was shut, according to the Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement.  Tropical Storm Maria may become a hurricane today as it
passes west of  Bermuda , according to the U.S. National Hurricane
Center. It may strike Newfoundland tomorrow, the Canadian
Hurricane Center said. Canadian offshore facilities operated by
Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Hibernia Management
& Development Co. are close to the storm’s projected path,
Bloomberg data show.  Maria’s top winds were at 65 miles (100 kilometers) per
hour, the hurricane center said in an advisory before 8 a.m.
Miami time. The storm was 200 miles west-southwest of Bermuda
moving north-northeast at 26 mph, the center said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  