-- 
Cuggino’s Permanent Portfolio Tops Rivals

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-09-15T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/cuggino-s-permanent-portfolio-tops-rivals-with-lessons-of-1970s.html
Michael Cuggino ’s Permanent
Portfolio has been sticking with the same asset mix for almost
three decades, a combination of gold, silver, the Swiss franc,
stocks and bonds meant to guard against inflation and recession.  For years, his fund languished while investors chased
surging stock and bond markets. At the end of 2001, after stocks
had rallied 17-fold over two decades, Permanent Portfolio had
assets of $52 million. Now, 10 years later, the fund is beating
all rivals and assets have surged to $15.6 billion.  Cuggino said the asset allocation is timeless and sticking
to it can prevent investors from suffering through periods like
the 1970s, when a recession, soaring inflation and the U.S.
decision to abandon the gold standard made it difficult to make
money with the traditional balance of stocks and bonds.  “This fund has been in the right place at the right
time,” Janet Yang, a Morningstar analyst, said in a telephone
interview. “The whole story here has been  asset allocation .”  With gold, silver and the Swiss franc all falling from
record highs, the fund’s top ranking may not last.  Cuggino, president of San Francisco-based fund adviser
Pacific Heights Asset Management LLC, aims to keep 20 percent of
the assets in gold, 10 percent in a blend of Swiss francs and
Swiss government debt and 5 percent in silver, as well as 35
percent in bonds and 30 percent in equities of mostly U.S.
companies.  The fund gained an annualized 10.5 percent in the five
years ended Sept. 13, the best return among 2,153 balanced funds
tracked by Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc ., most of which divvy
their assets among stocks, fixed income and cash.  ‘Predicting the Future’  Cuggino, who took over the fund in May 2003, has no plans
to change  Permanent Portfolio (PRPFX) ’s mix.  “We don’t think human beings are good at predicting the
future,” Cuggino, 48, said in a telephone interview.  The fund was started in 1982 by Terry Coxon, who co-wrote
“Inflation-Proofing Your Investments: A Permanent Program That
Will Protect You Against Inflation and Depression” with Harry
Browne the year before, as a way to put the advice book’s
theories into practice.  The goal was to use asset classes that rise and fall
independently to allow investors to retain their purchasing
power in any economic climate.  “We wanted a way to deal with uncertainty,” Coxon, the
fund’s original manager, said in a phone interview from  Santa
Rosa ,  California , where he writes for investment publications.  Cuggino joined the fund in 1991 and was promoted to
treasurer before becoming manager. He graduated from Bentley
University in Waltham,  Massachusetts , with a bachelor’s degree
in accounting.  Trailing the Markets  Permanent Portfolio couldn’t keep pace with the bull
markets for stocks of the 1980s and 1990s. The fund gained an
average of 4.4 percent annually in the 10 years ended Dec. 31,
1999, compared with 18 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The trend reversed with the 2000-2002  bear market .
Permanent Portfolio averaged annual returns of 12 percent in the
decade ended Aug. 31, 2011, compared with 2.7 percent for the
S&P 500, a benchmark for big U.S. stocks.  Gold appreciated at a 21 percent annual clip and silver
gained 26 percent a year in that period. Treasuries returned 5.5
percent a year, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Treasury Master Index. The Swiss franc more than doubled in
value against the  U.S. dollar , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bond Yields  Bonds have little room to appreciate with 10-year Treasury
yields near an all-time low of about 2 percent, said Joseph Tanious, a market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management in  New
York , which oversees $1.3 trillion.  “In the long run it is hard to imagine  interest rates 
going anywhere but up,” Tanious said in a telephone interview.
Bond prices fall as rates rise.  The psychology that has sent precious metals soaring could
change suddenly if stocks heat up or economic data improve, said
James Swanson, who helps oversee $237 billion at Boston-based
 MFS Investment Management .  “People may decide they don’t look so pretty,” he said in
a telephone interview. “I like things that grow.”  Gains in the franc may be limited after the  Swiss National
Bank  on Sept. 6 set a ceiling of 1.20 versus the euro, the first
such move since 1978, and pledged to defend the target with
unlimited currency purchases. Concerns that  Europe ’s debt crisis
is worsening and the world economy is slowing pushed the franc
to a level the bank described as massively overvalued.  “I wouldn’t expect to make money with those assets unless
something bad happens,”  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at
Chicago-based Harris  Private Bank , said in a telephone
interview. Ablin, who helps manage $55 billion, said stocks are
cheap relative to earnings prospects, with the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index down 5.5 percent this year.  Investor Deposits  Half of Permanent Portfolio’s equity portion is in real
estate and natural-resources companies and half is in
aggressive-growth stocks, according to its  website .  Diversification helped Permanent Portfolio in 2008 as it
lost 8.4 percent, compared with a plunge of 37 percent for the
 S&P 500 Index (SPX)  and 28 percent for the typical balanced fund. The
fund lost money in only three other years: 1984, 1990 and 1994,
Cuggino said. It rose 6.7 percent this year through Sept. 13.  The performance has caught the eye of investors. Permanent
Portfolio drew $3.9 billion in net deposits in 2010 and $3.6
billion in the first seven months of 2011, Morningstar data
show. BlackRock Global Allocation Fund is the only better-
selling rival in the balanced category this year, according to
Morningstar, with $4.5 billion in deposits through July.  ‘Good Luck’  Cuggino regularly rebalances to keep the asset weightings
in place, he said.  The security selection hasn’t been particularly good, said
Morningstar’s Yang. Investors could do better by copying the
fund’s asset allocation using low-cost exchange-traded funds,
she wrote in a March 29 research note. ETFs track indexes and
trade throughout the day like stocks.  Permanent Portfolio charges a  fee  of 77 cents for every
$100 invested, versus 84 cents for the average conservative-
style balanced mutual fund, according to Morningstar.  Cuggino called the fund’s expense level fair.  “If people think they can replicate us, I say, ‘Have at
it. Good luck,’” he said.  Throughout Cuggino’s tenure, shareholders in the fund and
fellow investment advisers have suggested it was time to alter
the allocation of assets. He has ignored them.  Had he chased the stock rally of the late 1990s, Cuggino
would have suffered bigger losses in 2000-2002, when the  S&P 500 
Index fell 47 percent, including dividends.  Cuggino said he was advised earlier this year to cut his
holdings of Treasuries because interest rates supposedly
couldn’t go lower. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note has
fallen from about 3.7 percent in February.  “The historical results tell us that this fund will hold
its own no matter what lies ahead,” Cuggino said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  