-- 
Cyber Attack Threats Added to U.S., Australia Defense Treaty

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-09-15T20:58:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/cyber-threats-added-to-u-s-australia-treaty.html
The U.S. and  Australia  pledged to
jointly thwart potential threats in cyberspace as they would
other military attacks under their 60-year-old military treaty,
as their defense and foreign ministers meet in San Francisco.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Defense
Secretary Leon Panetta are holding talks with their Australian
counterparts,  Kevin Rudd  and Stephen Smith, marking the 60th
anniversary of the ANZUS treaty. The agreement was signed Sept.
1, 1961, in San Francisco’s Presidio complex, where today’s
meetings are taking place.  “Cyber is the battlefield of the future,” Panetta told
reporters traveling on his plane. “We are all going to have to
work very hard not only to defend against cyber attacks but to
be aggressive with regards to cyber attacks as well. The best
way to accomplish that is not only on our own, but working with
our partners.”  The nations also are closing in on agreements to allow pre-
positioning of American military vessels, aircraft and personnel
at Australian bases and ports, a defense official said on
condition of anonymity. The U.S. would gain greater access to
Australian training facilities, exercises and test ranges, and
the two would conduct joint operations in the region, the
official said.  The agreements provide the U.S. and Australia with bulwarks
in the Pacific as  China ’s military challenges their Asian allies
from  Japan  to the  Philippines . The U.S. has sought to broaden
its defense ties in the region to augment traditional alliances
such as those with Japan and South Korea.  Key Role  “Australia is going to play a key role in bridging the
Indian Ocean and the Pacific, and this is important for U.S.
strategy,” said Ernest Bower, director of the Southeast  Asia 
program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a
policy group in  Washington . “We’ll start to move the center of
gravity of American security deployment globally eastward into
Asia.”  The Obama administration has signaled it is turning its
eyes more toward the rapidly emerging economies of Asia,
shifting from the traditional U.S. ties with  Europe . In addition
to Australia, it already has treaty ties with Japan,  South
Korea , the Philippines and  Thailand .  On cyberspace, the White House earlier this year released
its strategy for preventing and countering attacks, calling for
responding to hostile acts in that domain “as we would to any
other threat to our country.”  Hostile Acts  “We recognize that certain hostile acts conducted through
cyberspace could compel actions under the commitments we have
with our military treaty partners,” officials wrote in the May
report.  That was followed by the Defense Department’s Strategy for
Operating In Cyberspace, issued in July, that outlined plans for
more “robust international relationships” to deal with
potential threats.  “By sharing timely indicators about cyber events, threat
signatures of malicious code and information about emerging
actors and threats, allies and international partners can
increase collective cyber defense,” Pentagon officials said in
their report.  The four ministers today issued a joint statement
formalizing their pledge to help each other thwart cyber
threats.  Consultations  “Our governments share the view that, in the event of a
cyber attack that threatens the territorial integrity, political
independence or security of either of our nations, Australia and
the  United States  would consult together and determine
appropriate options to address the threat,” they said in the
statement.  On joint military training, exercises and operations, the
four ministers who attended last year’s annual meeting in
Australia agreed to form a working group that would flesh out
details. The results should be ready for signing by the end of
this year, the U.S. defense official said.  While those agreements would allow American equipment to be
kept on Australian military installations, the U.S. isn’t
seeking to establish its own bases, the official said.  One occasion coming up for such major announcements may be
President Barack Obama’s scheduled visit to Australia in
November for talks with Prime Minister  Julia Gillard .  The Pentagon has set a goal for improving its positioning
of forces worldwide. The idea is to distribute them more widely,
secure their operations against threats and ensure they can
survive political challenges such as those that have dogged U.S.
forces in Japan in recent years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  San Francisco  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  