-- 
Dallas Stars Hockey Team Files Bankruptcy With Plan for Auction Sale

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-09-16T21:35:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/dallas-stars-hockey-team-owned-by-ex-billionaire-hicks-files-bankruptcy.html
The  Dallas Stars  hockey team, the
last professional sports club owned by former billionaire  Thomas Hicks , filed for bankruptcy with a plan to sell the franchise
through a court-approved auction.  Vancouver-based businessman Tom Gaglardi has agreed to be
the lead bidder in the auction, with an offer that includes
about $50 million in cash and $100 million in new debt promised
to senior lenders.  The team owes lenders, including an affiliate of the
 National Hockey League , $448.5 million, according to court
documents filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Wilmington,  Delaware . It said its assets are worth between $100
million and $500 million. A precise figure wasn’t immediately
available.  “Crushing debt and a protracted out-of-court sales process
have marked the last few years of the debtors’ history,” the
team said, referring to efforts to sell the team.  Hicks, who fell off the  Forbes list  of billionaires in
2010, sold his stake in the Liverpool Football Club in the U.K.
and last year put the Texas Rangers baseball team into
bankruptcy, where it was sold at a court-supervised auction.
Hicks invested cash and loans worth about $150 million into the
team.  Gaglardi and his family own Sandman Hotels, Inns & Suites,
Denny’s Restaurants and the Kamloops Blazers Hockey Team.  Senior Lenders  Under his offer, an affiliate of the NHL would be repaid
about $51 million it loaned the Stars. Senior lenders owed
$250.9 million would be given a new $100 million note, plus an
amount of cash to be calculated later. Another group of lenders
owed $146.2 million would be paid $500,000 in cash.  The team said it has filed a “prepackaged” reorganization
plan, which typically qualify for quicker action under
bankruptcy rules. Gaglardi will automatically win the auction
unless another bidder makes a higher offer.  “The purpose of the sale is to allow for a smooth
transition in ownership, while ensuring that the  Dallas  Stars
continue to play at the American Airlines Center in Dallas,”
the team said in the statement.  The Stars are the fifth professional sports team to file
bankruptcy in the last two years. The Los Angeles Dodgers
baseball team filed in June, the Texas Rangers baseball team
filed last year and the Chicago Cubs baseball team filed in
2009, one year after former owner Tribune Co. went bankrupt.  Court Supervision  The Phoenix Coyotes hockey team filed in 2009 and, like the
Rangers and the Cubs, was sold under court supervision. The
National Hockey League took ownership of the Coyotes and is
looking for a buyer willing to keep the team in  Arizona .  The Atlanta Thrashers hockey team was sold in May to
Winnipeg, Manitoba-based True North Sports & Entertainment,
which moved the team to the Canadian city and renamed it the
Jets. The Hockey News reported May 20 that the price was $110
million, with the NHL receiving at least another $60 million as
part of a relocation fee.  The company and its units’ 30 largest creditors without
collateral backing their claims are owed about $58.5 million,
according to court documents. CFV I LLC, is the biggest with a
claim of $51.7 million. Other creditors include the New York
Rangers Hockey Club, with a claim of $2 million, and Marc
Crawford, with a claim of $1.1 million for contract termination
obligations, court papers show.  Winning Seasons  The Stars have had 14 straight winnings seasons, though
they’ve missed the playoffs the past three years.  Dallas went 42-29-11 last season and finished two points
behind the  Chicago Blackhawks  for the last of eight playoff
spots in the Western Conference.  After relocating to Dallas from  Minnesota  in 1993, the
franchise made the postseason 12 times in a 14-year span,
including back-to-back appearances in the Stanley Cup Finals in
1999 and 2000. Dallas won its lone NHL championship after the
1998-99 season led by Mike Modano, Joe Nieuwendyk, Brett Hull
and Ed Belfour.  The Stars are worth an estimated $227 million according to
Forbes magazine, ranking 10th out of 30 NHL teams.  Last year Hicks sold the Rangers after putting the baseball
team into bankruptcy and later sold his stake in the Liverpool
Football Club in the U.K.  Hicks’s holding company for the Stars and the Rangers
defaulted on $525 million in loans after missing interest
payments, Bloomberg data show.  Victims of Recession  That default, which became public in April 2009, made the
Rangers and the Stars the first U.S. sports teams to fall victim
to the recession, said Michael J. Cramer, director of the Texas
Program in Sports and Media at the  University of Texas  at
Austin.  The recession, which lasted from December 2007 to June
2009, threatened teams that took on too much debt, including the
Stars, the Rangers and the Coyotes, Cramer said. Cramer was
President of Hicks Sports Group until 2004. Consumers, hit by
higher unemployment and a drop in housing prices, are attending
fewer games, he said.  The National Hockey League is “by far, more dependent on
ticket sales” than professional baseball, basketball or, the
most profitable U.S. sport, football, Cramer said.  The other sports get more money than the NHL from
television contracts, he said.  The bankruptcies in the last two years should teach all of
the leagues a simple lesson, Cramer said.  “Don’t allow teams to borrow up to the worst-case scenario
because guess what, the worst-case scenario is happening,” he
said.  The case is Dallas Stars LP, 11-12935,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 