-- 
Danish Home Prices Drop as Buyers Shun Frozen Housing Market

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-09-15T11:03:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/danish-house-prices-fell-3-2-in-second-quarter-vs-year-earlier.html
Denmark ’s  house prices  fell for the
third quarter as a frozen property market, regional banking
crisis and faltering economy keep buyers at bay.  House prices in the second quarter  dropped 3.2 percent  from
a year earlier, the Association of Danish Mortgage Banks said in
a statement today. Prices slipped 0.5 percent from the first
three months of the year, it said.  “The market’s main problem is there are too many homes for
sale,” Niels Roenholt, senior economist with Silkeborg,
Denmark-based Jyske Bank A/S, said in a client note. “Weak and
uncertain development in the global economy continues to make
many cautious.”  Weak consumer spending and flagging exports prompted
Denmark’s central bank last week to cut its forecast for
economic growth through 2013. The number of homes for sale
stands at a record high and a “frozen  property market  is
sending prices down,” according to the mortgage association.
The country’s union of financial employees said thousands of
members may lose their jobs in coming months, newspaper Borsen
reported today.  “The housing market is moving in slow motion,” Troels Theill Eriksen, a senior analyst at  Nordea Markets  in
Copenhagen, said in a note. “There are clear signs of an
economic slowdown and the prospects of a turnaround in the labor
market are therefore not that bright. We therefore expect prices
to continue to trend down the rest of the year.”  Bank Stresses  Banks are lending less as a regional crisis squeezes
funding access. Sparekassen Himmerland A/S, based in Aars,
Denmark, said today it will cut 21 jobs after posting a six-
month loss of 44 million kroner ($8.1 million).  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,
the Nordic region’s biggest bank, said Aug. 29 it will cut 2,000
positions, including 500 to 600 in Denmark.  Danes vote in a national election today and polls show they
will throw out the Liberal-Conservative government that has led
the Nordic country for a decade, opting instead for a coalition
led by Social Democrat Helle Thorning-Schmidt. Her bloc promises
to spend about 21 billion kroner ($3.9 billion) more a year on
welfare and measures to spur economic growth. Prime Minister
Lars Loekke Rasmussen’s coalition has cautioned against more
spending as debt markets punish governments with widening
deficits.  ‘Hugely Influenced’  Potential home buyers are probably waiting for the election
to pass and housing policies to be clarified before locking into
a purchase,  Steen Bocian , chief economist at Danmark’s biggest
lender, Danske Bank A/S, said in a note. The government proposed
temporarily suspending select fees and taxes to cut the initial
cost of home-buying. The opposition has put forward similar
measures.  “A weak housing market is bad news for the whole Danish
economy,” Bocian said. “Danes’ desire to consume is hugely
influenced by how much equity they hold in their homes.”  Home sales this year trail normal levels by 35 percent to
40 percent, EDC-Gruppen A/S, Denmark’s largest realtor chain,
said in August. Falling prices and record-high offer numbers
underline the need for government action, the Danish Association
of Chartered Estate Agents said today on its website.  Danes’ worsening perceptions of their own economic
situation and that of the country drove down  consumer confidence 
in August for a second consecutive month, the statistics agency
reported Aug. 23.  “As long as the housing market is at a standstill,
consumption will be,” Steen Winther-Petersen, chairman of the
Danish Association of Chartered Estate Agents, said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Tasneem
Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  or
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  