-- 
Darden to Cut Red Lobster, Olive Garden Sodium

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-09-15T16:44:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/darden-to-cut-olive-garden-calories-in-michelle-obama-campaign.html
Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , operator
of the  Olive Garden  and Red Lobster dining chains, agreed to
work with first lady  Michelle Obama ’s  Partnership for a
Healthier America  to cut calories and salt in its meals.  Darden will reduce calories and sodium by 10 percent in the
next five years at its six different  restaurant chains , Rich
Jeffers, a company spokesman, said today in an interview. The
Orlando, Florida-based company also made a 10-year commitment to
decrease calories and salt by 20 percent.  Fruits or vegetables will become the default side dish in
kids’ meals, along with 1 percent milk as the drink, according
to Darden. The Partnership for a Healthier America is a
nonpartisan group working to advance first lady Obama’s Let’s
Move! campaign to fight  childhood obesity .  “This is a breakthrough moment in the restaurant
industry,” Obama said at an Olive Garden in Hyattsville,
 Maryland , in a webcast with Darden Chief Executive Officer
Clarence Otis. “The changes Darden will make could impact the
health and well-being of the entire generation of young
people.”  From 1980 through 2008, the portion of obese children and
adolescents ages two to 19 in the U.S. tripled to about 17
percent. More than one-third of American adults are considered
obese, based on body-mass index, a ratio of weight to height,
according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  Calorie Counts  At Olive Garden, a dinner portion of spaghetti and Italian
sausage has 1,270 calories, while the grilled chicken Caesar
salad has 850. A kids’ cheese ravioli has 290 calories.  In July,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  said it would begin putting apple
slices and smaller packets of fries in all of its Happy Meals in
U.S. stores this year. The change reduces calories in kids’
meals by 20 percent, the company said.  Darden rose 49 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $45.43 at 12:42
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
declined 3.2 percent this year before today.  Darden also owns the LongHorn Steakhouse, Capital Grille,
Seasons 52 and Bahama Breeze dining brands. The company owns and
operates more than 1,900 restaurants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  