-- 
Date Says Consumer Bureau May Find Need for Overdraft Rules

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-09-15T22:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/date-says-consumer-bureau-looking-at-need-for-overdraft-rules.html
The Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau is considering whether additional supervision or
regulation might eventually be needed on bank overdraft programs
to ensure rules are being applied “in an even-handed way,”
said Raj Date, the adviser running the new agency.  U.S. regulators including the  Federal Reserve  have imposed
rules on overdraft programs, and that may lead to inconsistent
supervision of different kinds of financial institutions, Date
said today in a Philadelphia speech.  “We will be monitoring the impact of the recent regulatory
and supervisory interventions,” he said. “If we find that
these interventions are not working as intended, we will adjust.
And if we find that additional action is needed, we will act.”  The bureau, created by the Dodd-Frank Act, has jurisdiction
over consumer financial products including checking accounts and
authority to impose industrywide rules where it deems them
necessary. The Fed, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency have issued separate
rules aimed at limiting use of checking-account overdraft
protection, which regulators say are essentially high-interest
short-term loans.  In his speech, Date’s outlined the agenda for the consumer
bureau, which officially started work on July 21. In addition to
checking accounts, the agency is working on issues related to
credit cards, mortgages and  student loans , he said.  Shopping Sheet  The bureau is developing a two-page “mortgage shopping
sheet” to help homebuyers determine what a mortgage costs and
whether they can afford it. The agency is also looking at
changes to mortgage regulations, he said.  “We want to establish some common-sense safeguards to
prevent bad practices from harming consumers,” Date said.
“That’s why we’re developing new rules to help borrowers get
loans that make sense for them -- loans that they can reasonably
expect to repay.”  The bureau is working with other federal regulators to
develop basic standards for mortgage servicing, he said.  “Sometimes ordinary, responsible people deal with
difficult financial times,” Date said. “When that happens, it
is simply not acceptable to cut corners. The law still
applies.”  ‘Fair-Minded’  The 2009 CARD Act, which revamped credit card rules, has
made costs “more transparent and more reliable,” Date said.
Even with the improvements, the bureau’s bank supervision
program will have to be “tough-minded” in protecting
consumers, he said.  “Make no mistake: When we find unjustified practices that
cause substantial consumer harm, we will take the necessary
action to put an end to them,” Date said. “  Date said the consumer bureau would collaborate with the
Department of Education on a Dodd-Frank mandated study of the
student-loan market that would include recommendations that it
submits to Congress next year.  The bureau will be ‘‘on the lookout’’ for practices in the
student-loan business that might run afoul of the law, Date
said. Those might include loans that lenders ‘‘know many
students won’t realistically ever be able to repay,’’ for-profit
institutions that push their own high-cost loans, and
‘‘questionable tactics’’ used to sell to military veterans, he
said.  ‘‘We owe more to our young people, and especially to those
who risked their lives in the service of our country,’’ Date
said. ‘‘If problems in this market warrant action, we will not
hesitate to use the tools that Congress has given us,’’ he said.  Date replaced  Elizabeth Warren  as the special adviser to
the treasury secretary on the consumer bureau on July 26, when
the Harvard University law professor stepped down after setting
up the agency.  Richard Cordray , the bureau’s enforcement
director, has been nominated to become the agency’s first
director.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 