-- 
Denmark’s First Female Prime Minister Vows Fiscal Restraint to Cut Deficit

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-09-16T10:51:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/denmark-s-new-government-pledges-to-bring-deficit-within-eu-s-3-threshold.html
Denmark ’s Social Democrats, who
will lead the country’s next government after winning
yesterday’s election, vowed to show fiscal restraint and bring
the country’s budget deficit within the European Union’s 3
percent threshold.  “We will spearhead a resurrection of Denmark’s economy and
engage a fully responsible economic policy that meets all
requirements, including the convergence criteria” set by the
EU, Morten Boedskov, Social Democrat finance spokesman, said in
an interview in Copenhagen yesterday.  The new government, which will be led by Denmark’s first
female Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt, has pledged to
spend 21 billion kroner ($3.9 billion) more a year than the
outgoing administration of Lars Loekke Rasmussen had planned.
Thorning-Schmidt, 44, campaigned on a platform of more taxes for
the rich and more spending on schools and hospitals, policies
Rasmussen warned will jeopardize Denmark’s AAA credit rating.  Denmark’s budget deficit will exceed the EU’s 3 percent
limit and reach 3.8 percent of gross domestic product this year,
before widening to 4.6 percent in 2012, the  Finance Ministry 
said Aug. 24. The average deficit in the euro area will be 4.3
percent in 2011 and improve to 3.5 percent in 2012, according to
the European Commission’s latest forecasts from May.  “We need to get the economy into shape and start growth,”
Thorning-Schmidt said in an interview broadcast by TV2 today.
“That’s what I’m preoccupied with morning, noon and night.”  Limited Scope  The Social Democrat-led bloc, which comprises four parties,
will get 92 seats in the country’s parliament. Rasmussen’s
Liberal-Conservative coalition and its allies will get 87
lawmakers.  “The scope for any further deterioration of the public
finances is very limited,” Nordea Bank AB Senior Analyst Jan
Stoerup Nielsen said in a note today. “In the longer term,
there’s no guarantee that the Danish economy will keep its
status as a safe haven.”  The country’s benchmark stock index slipped 0.2 percent,
the only bourse in the developed world besides Iceland’s stock
exchange to decline today. The Euro Stoxx 50 gained 1.4 percent.  The difference in yield between Denmark’s 10-year
government bond and German bunds of a similar maturity widened a
half basis points to 24.5 basis points as of 12:40 p.m. in
Copenhagen.  Yields Vs CDS  The spread has averaged 21 basis points since the end of
April, a narrower spread than that of any euro member. Still,
credit default swaps on Danish five-year bonds have risen more
than contracts on equivalent German debt. Danish swaps have
surged 42 percent since the beginning of August, compared with a
29 percent rise for German contracts, according to CMA. Swedish
CDS gained 23 percent in the period.  The new government, which will rule with the backing of the
Socialist  People’s Party , the Social Liberals and the Red Green
Alliance, may struggle to get some of its policies through
parliament. The Social Liberals, which won 17 seats, have said
they won’t back Thorning-Schmidt’s plan to maintain the
 retirement age  or keep in place the previous government’s strict
immigration rules.  Still, the Social Liberals will be invited to join the new
government, Boedskov said. Talks on forming a government will
start today.  Housing Bubble  Denmark is Scandinavia’s worst-performing economy, after a
burst housing bubble fueled a banking crisis and choked  consumer
spending . GDP will expand 1.25 percent this year, the central
bank said this month. Sweden’s economy will surge 4.5 percent,
 Norway ’s mainland output will grow 3 percent while Iceland’s GDP
will expand 2.8 percent, according to the countries’ central
banks.  The next government is unlikely to get enough support in
parliament to push through a planned 6 billion-krone bank tax,
according to  Peter Straarup , chief executive officer at Danske
Bank A/S, the country’s biggest lender.  The anti-immigration Danish People’s Party, which backed
Rasmussen’s bloc, saw its support slip three seats, giving it 22
lawmakers in parliament.  “We’ll be a tough opposition party,” Danish People’s
Party leader Pia Kjaersgaard said in an interview with DR.  After announcing the election on Aug. 26, Rasmussen evoked
the specter of a deepening European fiscal crisis and warned
voters they face a “clear choice: uncontrolled debt or
sustainable welfare.” Thorning-Schmidt, the daughter-in-law of
former U.K. Labour Party leader Neil Kinnock, said the same day
the state needs to deploy more public funds, arguing that
“without growth we can’t pay down our debt, and without growth
there’s no money for welfare.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  