-- 
Deutsche Bank Ex-Trader John Silvetz Hired by BlueCrest Capital Hedge Fund

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-09-15T17:42:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/deutsche-bank-credit-trader-silvetz-joins-hedge-fund-bluecrest.html
John Silvetz, a managing director
at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  who traded some of the most distressed bonds
and derivatives in debt markets, has joined hedge fund BlueCrest
Capital Management LLP.  Silvetz, 36, started this week as a credit trader in New
York for the $27 billion hedge fund founded by Michael Platt. Ed Orlebar, a spokesman for BlueCrest in London, confirmed the
hire. Silvetz worked at Deutsche Bank for 10 years, most
recently specializing in bonds and credit-default swaps linked
to companies including bond insurer MBIA Inc. and power producer
Energy Future Holdings Corp.  Traders at the investment-banking units of the world’s
biggest lenders are joining hedge funds, or starting new
investment firms, amid a crackdown on pay practices and
legislation created by  U.S. Congress  designed to restrict how
much banks can risk their own money trading securities,
derivatives and other assets.  Firms are hiring as the amount invested in the hedge-fund
industry globally exceeded $2 trillion this year for the first
time, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. Funds
added $127 billion of assets to $2.04 trillion in the first six
months of 2011 after dropping to as low as $1.33 trillion in the
first quarter of 2009.  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank, declined to
comment. Silvetz didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail.  Silvetz follows Thomas Curran and Prakash Narayanan, also
among Deutsche Bank’s most profitable credit traders, in
departing the Frankfurt-based lender this year for hedge funds
as banks worldwide curb or defer payouts amid regulatory
pressure to avoid quick rewards generated by employees who take
risks with a banks’ own money.  Actively Traded  Silvetz handled some of the most actively traded credit-
default swaps and below investment-grade bonds at the bank, the
top U.S. fixed-income dealer in 2010 in a Greenwich Associates
ranking. The gap between where Wall Street traders have bought
and sold credit swaps on MBIA Insurance Corp. has averaged 1.2
percentage points the past six months, according to prices from
swaps data provider CMA in  London . That compares to an average
so-called bid-ask spread of 0.06 percentage point for the 15
most-traded contracts on companies with investment-grade
ratings, CMA data show.  Curran, who traded distressed financial debt at the bank,
left to join Rose Grove Capital Management LLC, whose president
is Hope Pascucci, previously Deutsche Bank’s global head of debt
capital markets.  Narayanan joined Saba Capital Management LP, the $4.2
billion investment firm founded by Boaz Weinstein, Deutsche
Bank’s former co-head of global credit trading. Curran and
Narayanan together had earned as much as $800 million for the
lender in the two years before they left, people with direct
knowledge of the situation said in April.  Deutsche Bank said that month it hired two credit traders
from London-based Barclays Plc. Dennis Lu is a managing director
focused on investment-grade corporate bonds and Peter Ragosa
trades credit swaps tied to the debt, Deutsche Bank said in a
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in  New York  at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 