-- 
Deutsche Post to Spend $1.04 Billion on Upgrading Consumer-Parcels Network

-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 
2011-09-15T13:35:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/deutsche-post-to-spend-1-04-billion-on-upgrading-consumer-parcels-network.html
Deutsche Post AG (DPW) , the world’s
biggest carrier of air and sea freight by volume, said it will
spend 750 million euros ($1 billion) on upgrading its German
consumer parcel delivery unit to boost quality and reliability.  The investment, to be injected over the next two years, is
Deutsche Post’s biggest in parcels since the 1990s, according to
the Bonn-based company, whose DHL unit carries more than 2.6
million packages a day, on average.  “It’s one of the growth pockets within the German and
European parcels market, so it’s definitely a good idea,” said
 Axel Funhoff , an analyst at ING Group in Brussels who recommends
buying Deutsche Post shares. “The business is good, no doubt
about it, but the price tag is questionable.”  DHL handled 199 million parcels within  Germany  in the
second quarter, up 9.9 percent from a year earlier, with revenue
climbing 7.8 percent to 667 million euros, buoyed by a trend
toward transactions over the internet rather than in shops.  “We think that this segment of the business both has room
to grow and that it will do so,” Deutsche Post’s head of mail,
Juergen Gerdes, said at a press conference in Hamburg. “The aim
is that a parcel will in future be delivered throughout Germany
at the same speed as a letter currently is.”  With Deutsche Post aiming to deliver at least 95 percent of
parcels the next day, from 90 percent, the faster process should
aid an expansion into areas such as drug and food delivery,
according to the company, which plans to increase its overall
share of the consumer market to 15 percent from 8 percent.  Deutsche Post shares rose as much as 3.8 percent and were
trading 3.2 percent higher as of 3:23 p.m. in  Frankfurt , paring
the decline this year to 19 percent and valuing the company at
12.5 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb at   awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Jasper at   cjasper@bloomberg.net  