-- 
German Stocks Gain as DAX Index Posts Biggest Weekly Rally Since July 2009

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-09-16T16:03:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/deutsche-telekom-bayer-ag-may-move-german-equities-preview.html
German stocks rose for a fourth
day, extending the biggest weekly rally in two years, as
speculation mounted that policy makers will provide more support
to contain the region’s debt crisis.  Daimler AG led gains on the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) , rallying
3.4 percent. EON AG climbed 3.5 percent after JPMorgan Chase &
Co. advised buying the shares of  Germany ’s biggest utility.  The DAX climbed 65.27, or 1.2 percent, to 5,573.51 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The gauge surged 7.4 percent this
week, its largest jump since July 2009. The measure has still
plunged 26 percent from this year’s peak on May 2 as the debt
crisis spread from  Greece  to the larger economies of  Italy ,
 Spain  and  France . The broader HDAX gained 1.1 percent today.  “We are going to hear more in terms of concerted action,
not just on liquidity, but on policy generally and that will
take place over the next three to six months,” said Graham Neilson, the chief investment strategist at Cairn Capital Ltd.,
which manages about $24 billion in assets in  London , “We still
need to be patient,” he said in a Bloomberg Television
interview with  Owen Thomas .  European Central Bank Executive Board member Juergen Stark
said yesterday there are no signs that Greece won’t be able to
pay its debt. While there are no indications that Greece’s debt
load has become unsustainable, there is no reason to doubt that
the country can repay its creditors, Stark said in Vienna.  Poland Meeting  European officials met in Poland today to discuss how to
expand the euro area’s new bailout fund.  Timothy F. Geithner 
became the first U.S. Treasury Secretary to attend a European
finance ministers’ summit. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
will give a speech after European markets close.  Daimler rallied 3.4 percent to 36.40 euros.  EON climbed 3.5 percent to 15.62 euros as JPMorgan upgraded
the shares to “overweight” from “neutral,” citing a peak in
German political risk, the gas market tightening and details on
cost cutting increasing investors’ confidence.  SMA Solar Technology AG (S92)  slumped 7.3 percent to 56.13 euros
as Jefferies Group Inc. downgraded its recommendation on the
shares to “hold” from “buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  