-- 
Dexia CEO Says Bank Could Handle Additional Greek Writedown

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-09-15T13:11:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/dexia-ceo-says-bank-could-handle-additional-greek-writedown-1-.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the lender to local
governments that was bailed out in 2008, could handle an
additional Greek debt writedown of about 1.5 billion euros ($2.1
billion), Chief Executive Officer Pierre Mariani said.  “That’s simply an illustration,” Mariani said at a press
conference in Paris today. “Maybe some people are working on a
hypothesis of a Greek default. It’s not the central hypothesis
today.”  In the event that Dexia had to mark down its Greek
sovereign-debt holdings by more than 50 percent, its solvency
Tier 1 ratio, a key indicator of financial strength, would
remain above 10 percent, he said.  “Of course it’s a shock that we would be willing to
avoid,” Mariani said. “We’ve got the capacity to handle it
over time and to absorb it.”  Dexia rose 6 cents, or 4.4 percent, to 1.48 euros at 2:23
p.m. in Brussels trading, giving the company a market value of
2.9 billion euros.  Dexia last month posted the largest quarterly loss in its
history because of provisions to sell assets and a writedown of
Greek debt, bringing shareholder equity to a two-year low. The
bank reported Aug. 4 that its borrowings from the  European
Central Bank  had doubled to about 34 billion euros, saying it
swapped a large part of those funds into the U.S. currency to
safeguard dollar funding.  Short-Term Financing  Dexia took a 377 million-euro pretax writedown on Greek
 government bonds  in the second quarter after signing the
 Institute of International Finance ’s proposal for a bond
exchange and buyback program. Any additional provisions will
depend on the outcome of the Greek bailout package agreed to on
July 21, Mariani said today.  “We are always long in dollars, which is rather
comfortable in the current situation,” Mariani said. Short-term
financing in U.S. dollars at the Paris- and Brussels-based bank
“isn’t an issue,” he said.  While European banks don’t need “massive”
recapitalization, a curb in lending is threatening global
economies, according to the CEO.  “The main threat” to economic growth in  Europe  today is
the “contraction in banking lending” and not the reduction of
public spending, Mariani said. There is also a “very strong
slowdown” in lending to local governments in  France , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  