-- 
Discovery CEO Asks U.K. to Keep ‘Light Touch’ Regulation Amid Hacking Woes

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-09-15T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/discovery-ceo-zaslav-asks-u-k-to-keep-light-touch-regulation.html
Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)  Chief
Executive Officer David Zaslav says the U.K., which has been
rocked by News Corp.’s phone-hacking scandal, needs to keep its
“light touch” media regulation to lure foreign investments.  “It’s our largest market outside of the U.S., we’ve been
here since 1989, and we’re hoping that’s not going to change,”
Zaslav said yesterday in an interview in Cambridge,  England .
Discovery Communications, the owner of cable television’s Animal
Planet and  Discovery Channel , is looking for purchases in  Europe 
and the U.K. is “probably the most free market,” he said.  U.K. lawmakers have called for tougher media rules
following the phone-hacking scandal at the local newspaper unit
of  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. Allegations that the News of the
World hacked the phone of a murdered schoolgirl forced  News
Corp. (NWSA)  to shutter the tabloid and drop a 7.8 billion-pound ($12.6
billion) bid for British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc.  The scandal “fundamentally redraws everything,” said  Tony
Ghee , a media lawyer at Taylor Wessing LLP in London. “If it
had happened now, the bid would’ve been approved. It almost
happened. They almost got away with it.”  The hacking scandal has led to the arrests of at least 16
people, including Rebekah Brooks, who was chief executive
officer of the News International publishing unit. A separate
parliamentary committee is questioning current and former
executives about phone hacking at News Corp. and how those
executives dealt with initial reports.  Market Evaluation  U.K. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt , who had been in charge
of approving News Corp.’s offer to purchase BSkyB before the
company abandoned its bid, has recommended that new laws result
in competition decisions being made based on a company’s share
of the total customer market, through a combination of TV,
radio, newspaper and social media as opposed to a share of just
one of those.  In a speech to delegates at the Royal Television Society
this week, Hunt said politicians are under pressure to make it
harder for a similar deal to get through. The hacking scandal
will probably result in tougher competition rules for media
companies under the new law, he said. A News Corp.-BSkyB tie up
would’ve joined the largest broadcaster in the U.K. with the
owner of the most popular tabloids in the country.  Zaslav, who took over  Silver Spring , Maryland-based
Discovery Communications in January 2007, said that while the
U.K. should keep its “light touch” regulation, it also needs
to make sure that there is a “level playing field.” Zaslav
said Discovery could be affected by planned changes to
regulations that help major competitors in the U.K.  ‘Level Playing Field’  Hunt said this week that he may remove some regulatory
requirements for so-called U.K. public service broadcasters such
as ITV and Channel Four. So far, these channels got access to
airwaves and other benefits in return for agreeing to air
certain types of shows focusing on news, the arts, children’s
and religious programming. ITV also had been calling for changes
in the CRR mechanism, under which ITV can only raise ad pricing
at its ITV1 station in line with audience ratings.  “We have to be realistic that the terms of the original
PSB ‘deal’ -- broadcasting obligation in return for access to a
spectrum oligopoly -- no longer hold,” Hunt said this week.
“We need a strong commitment to PSB but ministers and
regulators should not, and increasingly will not be able, to
micro-manage program outcomes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  