-- 
Disney Channels Head Carolina Lightcap Resigns Unexpectedly

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-09-15T20:54:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/disney-s-carolina-lightcap-resigns-as-disney-channels-president.html
Carolina Lightcap resigned
unexpectedly as president of Disney Channels Worldwide after
less than two years on the job.  Gary Marsh was named president and chief creative officer
of the unit, Burbank, California-based  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  said
today in an e-mailed statement.  The move puts children’s networks including Disney Channel
and Disney XD into the hands of the creator of some of its
biggest shows, including “Hannah  Montana ” and “High School
Musical.” Lightcap, plucked from Disney Channels’ Latin
American operations in November 2009, said she was leaving with
some Disney cable channels’ ratings at their highest ever.  “I readily embrace change as a good thing, and really look
forward to the next chapter of my career,” Lightcap said in a
letter to her staff.  The departure by Lightcap, an 11-year Disney veteran who
had headed marketing in  Latin America , is the second high-level
resignation at Disney this month.  On Sept. 6, Andrew P. Mooney resigned as chairman of the
consumer products unit to seek a larger executive role.  The Disney Channel’s ratings were up by 10 percent in the
company’s most recent quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger  said in a Aug. 9 earnings conference call. Ratings at XD
channel, which is targeted at boys, increased by 24 percent.  For the period ended July 2, the worldwide Disney Channel
operation contributed to the company’s 11 percent increase in
operating earnings for its media networks unit, which includes
the ESPN sports channel, Disney said on Aug. 9.  ‘Phineas and Ferb’  Marsh, who was president of entertainment and chief
creative officer at Disney Channels, most recently developed the
“Phineas and Ferb” franchise. A movie based on the characters,
“Phineas and Ferb: Across the 2nd Dimension,” was cable TV’s
most-watched movie this past summer, Disney said on Aug. 6.  Disney, the world’s largest theme-park company and the
owner of Pixar and Marvel movie studios, rose 65 cents to $32.94
today in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have declined 12 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  