-- 
Dodgers’ Lawyers’ Fees Should Be Cut For Unneeded Work, U.S. Trustee Says

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-09-15T22:06:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/dodgers-law-firms-should-have-fees-cut-u-s-trustee-says.html
Bankruptcy lawyers for the  Los
Angeles Dodgers  should have their first set of legal bills cut
by almost 18 percent to $1.63 million, the U.S. Trustee said.  Two law firms billed the team $352,742 for work that was
unnecessary, attorney Mark Kenney, with the U.S. Trustee, said
in a court filing today. The Trustee monitors business
bankruptcies on behalf of the U.S. Justice Department.  The two firms, Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP and  Young Conaway
Stargatt & Taylor LLP , ran up most of the disputed bills trying
to win approval for a loan offered by an affiliate of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  after  Major League Baseball  offered a loan with a
better interest rate, Kenney wrote in court papers filed in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware.  After MLB made its loan offer, legal work to support the
other loan was “by definition, neither necessary to the
administration of the case nor reasonably likely to benefit the
debtors’ estates,” Kenney wrote.  “Their fees are completely consistent with appropriate
billing practices,” Lyndsey Estin, the team’s spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail. “They expect that 100 percent of the fees they
have requested will be allowed.”  After the Dodgers filed for bankruptcy in June, the team
began fighting in court with baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig 
over how to finance operations during bankruptcy. U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross sided with Selig, and the Dodgers
agreed to borrow as much as $150 million from MLB instead of
JPMorgan’s Highbridge Capital Management LLC.  The team’s lead bankruptcy attorney,  Bruce Bennett  of Dewey
& LeBoeuf, didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment on
the Trustee’s filing.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 