-- 
Dubai Electricity Spreads Widen on Slump Concerns: Arab Credit

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-09-15T14:06:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/dubai-electricity-spreads-widen-on-slump-concerns-arab-credit.html
Investors in Dubai Electricity &
Water Authority’s bonds are demanding close to the highest
premium in six months to hold the utility’s debt over that of
 Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA)  as they seek safer assets.  The spread between bonds of DEWA, as Dubai’s government-
owned utility is known, and those of the neighboring Abu Dhabi
utility, known as Taqa, widened to 281 today from this year’s
low of 199 basis points on July 20. The yield on DEWA’s 8.5
percent bond maturing in April 2015 rose 61 basis points to 5.44
percent in the same period and Taqa’s 4.75 percent securities
due September 2014 fell 22 basis points to 2.64 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dubai’s government and state-linked bonds are suffering on
concern a renewed global economic slump may hurt the ability of
the United Arab Emirates second-largest sheikhdom to repay more
than $100 billion in debt. Business confidence in the country
slipped to a 15-month low in August, HSBC Holdings Plc said in
its monthly Purchasing Managers Index survey Sept. 7.  “DEWA is a Dubai entity, and Dubai credits tend to be more
sensitive to global credit movements than  Abu Dhabi  names,”
Nick Stadtmiller, a fixed-income analyst at Emirates NBD PJSC,
the U.A.E.’s biggest bank by assets, said Sept. 14. “High-yield
bonds tend to widen more than high-grade when the credit market
sells off.”  Dubai government debt isn’t rated, while Abu Dhabi
sovereign liabilities are ranked the third-highest investment
grades at Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .  Dubai Debt  The spread between DEWA and Taqa bonds mirrors that of
Dubai government debt and Abu Dhabi-issued securities, which is
at the highest in six months. The extra yield investors demand
to hold Dubai’s 2015 government bonds over Abu Dhabi’s 2014
sovereign debt widened seven basis points to 415 today, the most
since March, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Dubai and companies it owns or controls borrowed about $129
billion, according to Credit Suisse Group AG, in an effort since
2002 to transform the emirate into a regional center of finance,
logistics and tourism. Abu Dhabi provided cash for Dubai as
frozen global credit markets hampered trade, cut lending and
sent property prices plunging more than 60 percent, forcing
Dubai World and Nakheel PJSC to restructure debt.  “Dubai has a profile that makes it more susceptible
because it has more vulnerability,” Philippe Dauba-Pantanacce,
an economist at Standard Chartered Plc, said in a telephone
interview from Dubai Sept. 14.  Government Guarantee  DEWA, which generates and distributes power and water in
Dubai, was the first government-owned entity to tap credit
markets in April 2010 after the city’s debt crisis. Dubai’s
government has guaranteed some of DEWA’s liabilities because of
the utility’s importance, according to the  prospectus  for the
government’s most recent  bond issue .  Still, the higher risk DEWA debt has also afforded
investors a greater return. DEWA’s dollar-denominated bonds due
in 2015 have returned 8.8 percent this year, compared with the
5.5 percent return on the 2014 dollar bonds sold by Taqa, whose
credit ratings are at least four steps higher than DEWA’s.  DEWA is rated BBB- by Standard & Poor’s, its lowest
investment grade, and Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service, their
second-highest junk rating. S&P ranks Taqa’s debt four steps
higher at A and Moody’s ranks it five levels higher at A3.  Abu Dhabi’s Backing  Just as Dubai’s bonds are suffering from the worsening
global outlook, it has benefited from Abu Dhabi’s financial
backing and from positive talks with creditors.  The spread of Dubai government bonds over debt issued by
the  U.S. Treasury  had narrowed earlier this year after state-run
companies Dubai World and property developer Nakheel PJSC
completed debt-restructuring talks. Dubai got a $20 billion
bailout from the U.A.E. capital and largest emirate Abu Dhabi in
the form of loans and central bank funds.  The emirate on June 15 sold $500 million of 10-year bonds
priced to yield 375 basis points, or 3.75 percentage points,
above the five-year benchmark mid-swap rate, which is charged to
swap fixed-rate payments for a floating rate. It was the lowest
 interest rate  paid by the government since its rescue in 2009 by
Abu Dhabi.  The yield on Dubai’s 7.75 percent dollar bonds due in
October 2020 plunged 236 basis points this year to a low of
6.244 percent on Aug. 3 as confidence in the emirate grew.
That’s since risen to 6.90 percent, returning to levels not
reached since late June, as the global economic outlook worsens.  The latest U.A.E. business confidence data indicate that
“the pick up in growth apparent in the first half has lost
speed,”  Simon Williams , HSBC’s chief economist for the  Middle
East , said in a note Sept. 7. “The deteriorating global
environment is taking its toll.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 