-- 
ECB’s Trichet Says High-Frequency Trading Needs Greater Scrutiny

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-09-15T19:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/ecb-s-trichet-says-high-frequency-trading-needs-greater-scrutiny.html
High-frequency trading firms and
so-called shadow banks such as money-market funds require more
scrutiny from regulators on the risks they pose to the financial
system, European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
said.  High-frequency traders should be studied as part of a
broader push by supervisors to understand “financial innovation
and technological advances,” Trichet said today in the text of
a speech to the Eurofi financial services forum in Wroclaw,
Poland. Authorities must “identify, monitor and assess the
potential threat to market stability” such firms pose, he said.  “We are far from understanding the potential global
systemic instability that is associated today with the sheer
size of the non-banking sector which experienced an exponential
growth over the last 20 years,” Trichet said on the eve of a
meeting of euro-area finance ministers seeking to tackle the
region’s debt crisis. “I would call all of us to better
understand this aspect of the global financial dynamics.”  The role of high-frequency firms in periods of market
swings has come under scrutiny since the May 6, 2010, crash that
briefly erased $862 billion from U.S. share values. Traders and
other professional investors were said to have withdrawn bids as
the selloff worsened, according to a Sept. 30 report from the
Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. Regulators and exchanges later installed curbs to
limit market disruptions.  Market Manipulation  The European Commission, the 27-nation European Union’s
executive arm, is considering listing specific examples of
strategies using algorithmic and high-frequency trading that
should be punished by regulators as market manipulation.  Regulators should stick to their commitments to implement
bank capital rules agreed by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision irrespective of opposition from lenders, Trichet
said, including plans to require the biggest banks to hold up to
2.5 percentage points in extra reserves.  “In a crisis period where confidence is of the essence, it
would be extremely damaging if the authorities were to hesitate,
demonstrate an absence of resolve and of the fortitude that is
required by the circumstances,” Trichet said. “For me, it is
crystal clear: what has been decided is decided.”  Still, Trichet said, minimum liquidity rules for banks and
an indebtedness limit that were also agreed by the Basel
committee may need to be adjusted to protect the real economy.  “It is essential that prior to their introduction the
potential impacts of these new elements on financial markets are
carefully assessed to ensure that these measures do not hinder
banks providing funding to the real economy,” he said.  Trichet repeated his call for “sound economic policies
and structural reforms” and a strict implementation and
reinforcement of European economic and fiscal governance. The
efforts need to be made “tirelessly, not only in stress times,
but also in times of generalized benign neglect of both
governments and markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Wroclaw,  Poland  at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Wroclaw, Poland at  cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  