-- 
ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for September (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 
2011-09-15T08:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-september-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s September monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 8 September 2011 to
keep the key ECB  interest rates  unchanged. Inflation has
remained elevated and is likely to stay above 2% over the months
ahead before declining next year. At the same time, the
underlying pace of monetary expansion continues to be moderate,
while monetary liquidity remains ample. As expected, the pace of
economic growth in the euro area decelerated in the second
quarter, following strong growth in the first quarter. Looking
ahead, the Governing Council expects the euro area economy to
grow moderately, subject to particularly high uncertainty and
intensified downside risks. At the same time, short-term
interest rates are low. While the monetary policy stance remains
accommodative, some financing conditions have tightened. It
remains essential for monetary policy to focus on its mandate of
maintaining  price stability  over the medium term, thereby
ensuring that recent price developments do not give rise to
broad-based inflationary pressures. A very thorough analysis of
all incoming data and developments over the period ahead is
warranted. Inflation expectations in the euro area must remain
firmly anchored in line with the Governing Council’s aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the
medium term. Such anchoring is a prerequisite for monetary
policy to make its contribution towards supporting economic
growth and job creation in the euro area. The Governing Council
will continue to monitor very closely all developments.  The provision of liquidity and the allotment modes for
refinancing operations will continue to ensure that euro area
banks are not constrained on the liquidity side. All the non-
standard measures taken during the period of acute financial
market tensions are, by construction, temporary in nature.  As regards the economic analysis, euro area real GDP growth
decelerated to 0.2% quarter on quarter in the second quarter of
2011, after 0.8% in the first quarter. As expected, temporary
factors which had boosted growth in the early part of the year
ceased, and adverse effects resulted from the Japanese
earthquake and the lagged impact of past oil price increases.
Looking ahead, a number of developments seem to be dampening the
underlying momentum in the euro area, including a moderation in
the pace of global growth, related declines in equity prices and
in business confidence, and unfavourable effects resulting from
ongoing tensions in a number of euro area sovereign debt markets.  ﻿As a consequence, real GDP growth is expected to increase very
moderately in the second half of this year. At the same time,
the Governing Council continues to expect euro area economic
activity to benefit from ongoing growth in the global economy as
well as from the accommodative monetary policy stance and the
various measures taken to support the functioning of the
financial sector.  This assessment is also reflected in the September 2011 ECB
staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area, which foresee
annual real GDP growth in a range between 1.4% and 1.8% in 2011
and between 0.4% and 2.2% in 2012. Compared with the June 2011
Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections, the ranges for real
GDP growth in 2011 and 2012 have been revised downwards.  In the Governing Council’s assessment, the risks to the economic
outlook for the euro area are on the downside, in an environment
of particularly high uncertainty. Downside risks mainly relate
to the ongoing tensions in some segments of the financial
markets in the euro area and at the global level, as well as to
the potential for these pressures to spill over into the euro
area real economy. They also relate to further increases in
energy prices, protectionist pressures and the possibility of a
disorderly correction of global imbalances. With regard to price
developments, euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.5% in August
2011, according to Eurostat’s flash estimate, unchanged from
July. Inflation rates have remained at relatively high levels
since the end of last year, with higher energy and other
commodity prices as the main drivers. Looking ahead, inflation
rates are likely to stay clearly above 2% over the coming months.
Thereafter, on the basis of the path implied by  futures markets 
for  oil prices , inflation rates should fall below 2% in 2012.
This pattern reflects the expectation of relatively stable wage
growth developments in the context of moderate economic growth.  The September 2011 ECB staff macroeconomic projections for the
euro area embody these considerations and foresee annual HICP
inflation in a range between 2.5% and 2.7% for 2011 and between
1.2% and 2.2% for 2012. In comparison with the June 2011
Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections, the range for HICP
inflation in 2011 remains unchanged, while the range for 2012 is
slightly narrower. It is necessary to recall that the staff
projections are conditional on a number of purely technical
assumptions.  ﻿The Governing Council views the risks to the medium-term outlook
for price developments as being broadly balanced. On the upside,
the main risks relate to the possibility of higher than assumed
increases in oil and non-oil commodity prices as well as
increases in indirect taxes and administered prices, owing to
the need for fiscal consolidation in the coming years. The main
downside risks relate to the impact of weaker than expected
growth in the euro area and globally.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the annual growth rate of M3
was 2.0% in July 2011, after 1.9% in June. The annual growth
rate of loans to the private sector was 2.4% in July, after 2.5%
in June. Looking beyond the monthly data and the effects of
special factors, trends in broad money and loan growth have
broadly stabilised over recent months. Overall, the underlying
pace of monetary expansion remains moderate. At the same time,
monetary liquidity accumulated prior to the period of financial
market tensions continues to be ample.  Looking at M3 components, the annual growth rate of M1 decreased
to 0.9% in July, whereas growth in other short-term deposits
remained unchanged at 3.7%. These developments continue to
partly reflect the gradual increase in the remuneration of
short-term time and savings deposits over recent months. On the
counterpart side, the annual growth of loans to non-financial
corporations continued to edge up slightly, from 1.5% in June to
1.6% in July, whereas the annual growth of loans to households
seems to have levelled off at around 3%.  The overall size of MFI balance sheets has remained broadly
unchanged over recent months. Where it is necessary to provide
adequate scope to expand the provision of credit to the private
sector, it is essential for banks to retain earnings, to turn to
the market to strengthen further their capital bases or to take
full advantage of government support measures for
recapitalisation, in line with the findings of the recent stress
tests.  To sum up, based on its regular economic and monetary analyses,
the Governing Council decided to keep the key ECB interest rates
unchanged. Inflation has remained elevated and is likely to stay
above 2% over the months ahead before declining next year. A
cross-check with the information from the monetary analysis
confirms that the underlying pace of monetary expansion
continues to be moderate, while monetary liquidity remains ample.
As expected, the pace of economic growth in the euro area
decelerated in the second quarter, following strong growth in
the first quarter. Looking ahead, the Governing ﻿Council expects
the euro area economy to grow moderately, subject to
particularly high uncertainty and intensified downside risks. At
the same time, short-term interest rates are low. While the
monetary policy stance remains accommodative, some financing
conditions have tightened. It remains essential for monetary
policy to focus on its mandate of maintaining price stability
over the medium term, thereby ensuring that recent price
developments do not give rise to broad-based inflationary
pressures. A very thorough analysis of all incoming data and
developments over the period ahead is warranted. Inflation
expectations in the euro area must remain firmly anchored in
line with the Governing Council’s aim of maintaining inflation
rates below, but close to, 2% over the medium term. Such
anchoring is a prerequisite for monetary policy to make its
contribution towards supporting economic growth and  job creation 
in the euro area. The Governing Council will continue to monitor
very closely all developments.  Turning to fiscal policies, a number of governments have
announced additional measures to ensure the achievement of their
consolidation targets and to strengthen the legal basis for
national fiscal rules. To ensure credibility, it is now crucial
that the announced measures be frontloaded and implemented in
full. Governments need to stand ready to implement further
consolidation measures, notably on the expenditure side, if
risks regarding the attainment of the current fiscal targets
materialise. Countries that enjoy better than expected economic
and fiscal developments should make full use of this room for
manoeuvre for faster deficit and debt reduction. All euro area
governments need to demonstrate their inflexible determination
to fully honour their own individual sovereign signature, which
is a decisive element in ensuring financial stability in the
euro area as a whole.  Fiscal consolidation and structural reforms must go hand in hand
to strengthen confidence, growth prospects and job creation. The
Governing Council therefore urges all euro area governments to
decisively and swiftly implement substantial and comprehensive
structural reforms. This will help these countries to strengthen
competitiveness, increase the flexibility of their economies and
enhance their longer-term growth potential. In this respect,
labour market reforms are key, with a focus on the removal of
rigidities and the implementation of measures which enhance wage
flexibility. In particular, there is a need for the elimination
of automatic wage indexation clauses and a strengthening of
firm-level agreements so that wages and working conditions can
be tailored to firms’ specific needs. These measures should be
accompanied by structural reforms that increase competition
in ﻿product markets, particularly in services - including the
liberalisation of closed professions - and, where appropriate,
the privatisation of services currently provided by the public
sector, thereby facilitating productivity growth and supporting
competitiveness.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Siedenburg in Vienna at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  