-- 
Regal Funds Targets Australia Mine Boom

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-09-15T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/hedge-fund-regal-targets-australia-mine-boom-with-new-offering.html
Regal Funds Management Pty Ltd. , an
Australian hedge fund manager with A$1 billion ($1.03 billion)
in assets, has started a natural resources fund it forecasts
will attract as much as A$200 million from investors betting on
rising commodity prices and inflation.  The Sydney-based manager was named Australia’s hedge fund
of the year late yesterday by the local arm of industry group
the Alternative Investment Management Association for its Tasman
Market Neutral Fund. The fund, which bought mining shares and
sold borrowed stocks of manufacturing, retail and mining
companies, returned 27.4 percent from January through Aug. 30,
according to the firm.  “Half of the market is in a  bear market  and half is in a
 bull market , and we’ve been able to take advantage of those
trends,” Philip King, chief investment officer, said in a
telephone interview in Sydney yesterday.  King is benefiting from bets on  Australia ’s two-speed
economy as Chinese demand for commodities fuels the nation’s
biggest mining boom in more than a century at the same time the
developed world’s highest borrowing costs crimp domestic demand.
The Tasman Market Neutral Fund has generated positive returns in
seven of the first eight months of this year, while the nation’s
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index slumped 9.5 percent.  “There are certain parts of the Australian economy, namely
manufacturing, retailing, media that are very much almost in
recession, and then there are other parts, mainly mining and
mining services, that are booming,” said King, a former
Macquarie Group Ltd. analyst.  Natural Resources Fund  The Tasman Market Neutral fund, which began in May 2007,
returned 33.2 percent last year, 50.7 percent in 2009 and 29.5
percent in 2007. It shed 9.8 percent in 2008. The fund has
generated positive returns in three out of every four months
since inception, a statement from the company shows.  At the start of August, Regal began trading its natural
resources fund, which currently has around A$5 million in assets
and is expected to reach “in excess of A$100 million to A$200
million” over the next 12 months, according to King.  The natural resources fund gained 2 percent last month,
King said. In that time, Australia’s benchmark stock index shed
2.9 percent as investor concern intensified about  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis and U.S. economic growth.  “We’re finding a lot of interest from high-net worth
families who are more focused on net returns, and we’re finding
a lot of interest from people disappointed with the performance
of their share portfolios over the last few years,” King said.  Before Regal, King worked as a hedge fund manager at De
Putron Fund Management in  London  for six years, after five years
at Macquarie and eight years at  KPMG , according to Regal’s
website. His brother Andrew, Regal’s director, previously worked
at Australian fund management firm Paradice Investment
Management.  The Australian Hedge Fund of the year winner was drawn from
more than 150 funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  