-- 
Medicare Advantage Enrollees to Rise 10% in 2012, U.S. Says

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-09-15T16:19:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/medicare-advantage-enrollment-will-climb-1o-in-2012-u-s-says.html
Enrollment in the Medicare program
administered by private insurers will increase next year as
premium rates decline, the U.S. government projects.  Enrollment in Medicare Advantage plans for the elderly and
disabled will climb 10 percent in 2012, the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services said today in a statement. Premiums
paid to market leaders  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ,  Humana Inc. (HUM)  and
 WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  will decline 4 percent.  “The plans have made a very strong statement that they
intend to commit to the program and price their products
competitively,” Jonathan Blum, director of the U.S. Center for
Medicare said on a call with reporters. Blum credited the rise
in enrollment to improving quality of the plans and government
negotiating lower costs.  Shares of the top Medicare Advantage companies rose
following the announcement. Shares of Minnetonka, Minnesota-
based UnitedHealth gained $1.06, or 2.2 percent, to $49.74 at
11:37 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  “This is very good news for insurers,” said Ana Gupte, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  New York , in an e-mail.  Insurers, through their Washington lobbying group America’s
Health Insurance Plans, have  argued  that reductions in U.S.
payments to the industry in the 2010 health-care overhaul will
eventually slash enrollment. The  Congressional Budget Office 
estimated in 2010 that, because of the law, the number of people
in the program would be 35 percent lower in 2019.  Blum said that the 2012 enrollment projections had proved
insurers wrong. “If we were going to see pull-outs we would
have seen them by now,” Blum said. “It tells me the program is
going to continue to be strong, even though payment rates are
going to come down over time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steve Walsh  at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net  