-- 
Eircom Wins Loan Term Waiver, Averting $5 Billion Default by Irish Company

-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 
2011-09-15T13:56:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/eircom-wins-loan-term-waiver-averting-5-billion-default-by-irish-company.html
ERC Ireland Holdings Ltd., parent
of Ireland’s largest phone company Eircom, said lenders agreed
to overlook debt terms, averting a $5 billion default and paving
the way for a debt restructuring.  “The waiver consent provides a necessary period of
stability that allows restructuring discussions to take place
during the next three months,” Eircom Chief Executive Officer
 Paul Donovan  said in a  statement  on the company’s website.  The covenant on the maximum amount of debt the Dublin-based
borrower has in relation to its  cash flow  won’t be enforced
until Dec. 15, Eircom said. Some 90 percent of senior lenders
approved the waiver, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter said before the statement. A company spokesman wasn’t
available to comment on the result.  The consent agreement “imposes tighter restrictions”
including on the company’s disposal of assets, Eircom said.  Eircom began talks with lenders in May after saying a breach
was likely. Eircom, saddled with 3.65 billion euros ($5.1
billion) of debt, is struggling to meet loan conditions as
austerity measures weigh on its earnings.  The crisis in Ireland’s economy and banking system has
magnified the effect of increased competition in fixed-line and
mobile services, Eircom said in a  statement  July 29. Ireland was
forced to accept an 85 billion-euro European Union-led bailout
last year to prop up its banks after taking over the lenders
whose assets were wiped out by real-estate losses.  Eircom’s senior lenders are represented by Alcentra Group
Ltd., Avoca Capital Holdings, Deutsche Bank AG, GSO Capital
Partners LP, Harbourmaster Capital Management Ltd. and Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc., Eircom said July 7. They are being
advised by Houlihan Lokey.  To contact the reporters on this story:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net  