-- 
El Paso Pipeline Plans Junk-Bond Offer Following August Freeze

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-09-15T16:35:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/el-paso-pipeline-plans-junk-bond-offer-following-august-freeze.html
El Paso Pipeline Partners LP (EPB) , the
natural gas limited partnership part-owned by  El Paso Corp. (EP) , is
planning to sell $500 million of speculative-grade bonds as
companies return to the market after a shutdown in August.  El Paso Pipeline Partners Operating LLC is offering 10-year
notes to cut outstanding debt on its revolving  credit line  and
for general partnership purposes, the Houston-based company said
today in a statement distributed by Marketwire. The borrower is
graded Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service and BB by Standard &
Poor’s, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The market for high-yield, high-risk debt is showing signs
of reviving after sales in August plummeted to the least since
December 2008 and  junk bonds  lost 4 percent, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show. Relative yields on the securities
tumbled from 764 basis points on Sept. 12, the highest since
November 2009, to 755 basis points yesterday, as optimism grows
that policy makers will contain Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  “The Fresenius deal last week did very well, and there is
significant demand for higher quality paper,” Marc Gross, a
 money manager  at RS Investments in  New York , where he oversees
$3 billion in fixed-income funds, said in an e-mail. “These are
being used as a test for the market, but more than that it shows
that for the right deal there is demand and there is money on
the sidelines.”  Speculative-grade borrowers, including dialysis services
provider Fresenius Medical Care AG, have issued $665 million of
debt in the U.S. this month after $987 million in August,
Bloomberg data show. That compares with the 2011 average monthly
volume of $28.5 billion through July.  Omnicare, Sealed Air  Omnicare Inc. (OCR) , the Covington, Kentucky-based provider of
drugs to nursing homes and hospitals, is planning to sell $100
million of 7.75 percent debt due in 2020 that may be rated Ba3
by Moody’s and BB by S&P, said a person with knowledge of the
offer, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  Sealed Air Corp. (SEE)  is marketing $1.5 billion of 8- and 10-
year notes to fund its acquisition of Diversey Holdings Inc.,
said a separate person familiar with that offering, who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set. The company is split-
rated, with a Baa3 grade from Moody’s, and BB+, the highest junk
rating, from S&P.  “The $1.5 billion Sealed Air deal will be a better test
for the market than these two,” Gross said.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard &
Poor’s . A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  