-- 
Elpida Shares Advance on Chipmaker’s Plan to Shift Production to Taiwan

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   K y u n g   B o k   C h o
-- 
2011-09-15T03:30:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/elpida-shares-advance-on-chipmaker-s-plan-to-shift-production-to-taiwan.html
Elpida Memory Inc. (6665)  advanced to a
two-week high in Tokyo trading after the world’s third-largest
memory chipmaker said it may shift some domestic production to
Taiwan to deal with a strong yen and an industry slump.  Elpida gained 5.8 percent to 568 yen as of the 11 a.m.
trading break on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the highest intraday
level since Aug. 30. The benchmark Topix index added 1.3 percent.  The maker of memory used in personal computers is studying
the feasibility of transferring some production at its Hiroshima
plant to a more cost-efficient factory operated by subsidiary
 Rexchip Electronics Corp. (4932)  in Taiwan, according to a  statement  by
the Tokyo-based company today. Elpida is among chipmakers facing
weakening demand for dynamic random access memory chips, or DRAM,
as sales of personal computers slow.  “It’s hard for them to keep making DRAM products at the
moment because of costs,” Seo Won Seok, a Seoul-based analyst
at NH Investment & Securities Co. said by telephone. “Since
they don’t have economy of scale, they seem to be trying to
boost efficiency by shifting to  Taiwan .”  In response to “an extremely harsh business environment”
caused by the appreciation of the yen and a drop in chip prices,
Elpida will also try to accelerate reducing the circuitry of its
chips to 30 nanometers from 40 nanometers to cut production
costs, while expanding procurement in U.S. dollars to minimize
currency-related risks, the company said.  DRAM Prices  Prices for dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, chips
that are used in PCs to help run multiple programs
simultaneously have dropped as PC sales slowed.  The price of the benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM has slumped
more than 70 percent over the past 12 months, according to data
from Taipei-based Dramexchange Technology Inc., operator of
 Asia ’s largest spot market for semiconductors.  Nanya Technology Corp. cut DRAM production because of a
supply glut, Pai Pei-lin, a spokesman for the Taiwanese
chipmaker said yesterday.  Inotera Memories Inc. also lowered DRAM output, President
Charles Kau said yesterday.  Output reductions may help chip prices rebound as early as
from the end of this month, Lee Ka Keun, a Seoul-based analyst
at Hana Daetoo Securities Co. said in a Sept. 14 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  