-- 
Kuwait, Temasek Said Among Investors in Citic Securities Hong Kong Offer

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-09-15T08:42:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/temasek-kuwait-said-in-group-taking-900-million-citic-securities-stake.html
Temasek Holdings Pte and  Kuwait
Investment Authority  are among early investors who agreed to buy
$900 million of stock in Citic Securities Co.’s initial share
sale in Hong Kong, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The Singaporean state-owned investment firm will invest
$150 million in the offering, while the Kuwaiti sovereign wealth
fund is putting in $200 million, said the people, who declined
to be identified as the process is confidential.  Citic Securities has received orders for all the stock
available to institutional investors, which accounts for 90
percent of the offering, the people said. The offering of 995.3
million shares may raise 12.2 billion yuan ($1.9 billion), based
on the company’s closing price of 12.27 yuan in  Shanghai  today.  Citic Securities,  China ’s biggest brokerage by market
value, and rival Haitong Securities Co. are selling shares in
 Hong Kong  to raise money for overseas expansion. Shares of Citic
Securities have advanced nearly 10 percent in the past year in
Shanghai, where the company went public in January 2003.  Asia ’s
economic growth prospects are luring investors, CIMB Research
Pte said.  “Looking beyond the near-to-medium term hazy outlook
caused by the European sovereign debt crisis or patchy growth in
the U.S., investors are fairly focused on stock ideas that come
with a growth story,” said Song Seng Wun, a Singapore-based
economist at CIMB. “Sovereign wealth funds that have long-term
investment horizons and other similar-minded investors are
probably looking at these with a fairly positive light.”  Developing economies accounted for 60 percent of the direct
investments made by sovereign wealth funds last year, up from 53
percent in 2009, according to  Monitor Group , which collects data
on the funds.  Waddell & Reed Financial Inc. (WDR) , a U.S. mutual-fund manager,
agreed to invest $300 million in the offering, while BTG Pactual
SA, a Brazilian investment bank, will purchase $100 million of
stock, the people said. China’s National Social Security Fund,
Fubon Life Insurance Co. and Och-Ziff Capital Management Group
LLC each committed $50 million to the offering, the people said.  The seven so-called cornerstone investors, who get
guaranteed shares in the offering in return for a pledge not to
sell their stock immediately, will together account for about
half the size of Citic Securities’ sale, the people said.  Raymond Tang, a Beijing-based spokesman for Citic
Securities, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call seeking
comment on the cornerstone investors.  Jeffrey Fang , a spokesman
for Temasek in  Singapore , declined to comment. A Kuwait
Investment Authority official couldn’t be reached for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  