-- 
Merkel Faces Vote as Pirates Prepare for Win

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-09-16T09:05:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/merkel-faces-vote-as-pirates-prepare-for-win.html
After six state election setbacks
so far this year, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  faces a final
humiliation in Berlin as polls show the  Pirate Party  poised to
oust her coalition ally in the regional parliament.  The rise of the Pirates to a record 9 percent in a poll
today, putting them within reach of their first parliamentary
seats in the city-state’s Sept. 18 elections, caps a year in
which voters punished Merkel’s coalition over its handling of
the debt crisis. As her Christian Democrats and Free Democratic
coalition partner descend into open conflict over the euro’s
future and financial aid to Greece, the chancellor’s 2013 bid
for re-election with her current political ally may be in doubt.  “The state elections results this year show there is a
weakness in mobilization in the CDU,” Gero Neugebauer, a
professor of political science at the Free University in Berlin,
said in an interview. “You could begin to doubt whether Merkel
will be the right candidate in 2013.”  Almost two years into the debt crisis, Merkel is struggling
to balance domestic fatigue over shouldering euro-area rescues
with international calls that she do more to stem the contagion.
That’s spreading fissures in her coalition midway into her
second term as the FDP led by Economy Minister Philipp Roesler
flirts with an anti-bailout stance.  In newspaper interviews this week, Roesler put an “orderly
default” for  Greece  on the table, further roiling financial
markets and earning him rebukes from Merkel’s party. The Free
Democrats have made Germany’s participation in bailouts for
fellow euro members Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  into a campaign
theme in Berlin. While a survey released today found 65 percent
of voters in Germany unhappy with the government’s crisis
management, polls suggest the FDP in Berlin will drop out of the
city-state’s legislature for the first time in 12 years.  ‘Fall Flat’  “Of course people are concerned about Greece, but
Roesler’s late adoption and handling of the theme will fall flat
on its face,” Peter Matuschek, an analyst at the Berlin-based
Forsa polling group, said by phone. His remarks merely serve to
“highlight his party’s disorientation.”  Merkel made eight campaign stops for Sept. 4 elections in
her home state of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, talking up her
handling of the debt crisis and rejection of euro bonds. The CDU
suffered its worst ever result in the state, losing to the
 Social Democrats , the main opposition party nationally. Only two
rallies were on her schedule in Berlin.  Mayor Wowereit  Latest polls suggest Social Democratic Mayor Klaus Wowereit, who has governed the city for 10 years, will coast to
a third term. Support for the SPD is at 31 percent, little
changed from the last election in 2006, with Merkel’s CDU also
unchanged at 22 percent, an Info poll for the Berliner Kurier
newspaper and Berliner Rundfunk radio showed today.  The Greens under main candidate Renate Kuenast have 18
percent, making them a potential candidate as junior coalition
partner to the SPD, while the Left Party, which currently
governs with the SPD, is at 12 percent.  Pirate Challenge  Roesler’s Free Democrats, with just 2 percent backing, may
fail to cross the 5 percent threshold needed to win seats in
parliament and may be replaced by the  Pirate Party . The Pirates,
whose platform focuses on areas such as freedom of information,
open access to technology and the pitfalls of surveillance and
copyrighting, had a record 9 percent, a result that would win
them their first seats in any legislature. Info polled 1,504
voters on Sept. 9-11. No margin of error was given.  While Berlin hasn’t had a CDU mayor since 2001, a defeat in
the German capital would cement a year in which Merkel’s party
has lost support in traditional strongholds and been ousted from
power in two states, including Hamburg,  Germany ’s richest state,
and Baden-Wuerttemberg, which boasts the lowest unemployment.  Victory for the SPD would boost the party as it narrows the
gap on Merkel’s CDU and cement the standing of Wowereit, the
openly gay mayor, who once referred to Berlin as “poor but
sexy.” He can now boast a record in the city-state of 3.5
million that rests partly on jobs.  Berlin’s economy grew the most of any state’s between 2008
and 2010, a period that includes Germany’s worst recession since
World War II, federal statistics show. Tourism, technology and
creative industries such as publishing and fashion helped power
the period’s 5.9 percent expansion.  Even so, the jobless rate of 13.3 percent in August was the
highest of any of Germany’s 16 states and nearly double the
national average of 7 percent. Berlin has debt of 60 billion
euros ($83 billion), the highest per person of any German state
except the northern port of Bremen, according to the Federal
Statistics Office. While the level of debt is “still too
high,” the increase under Wowereit has been slower than
previously projected, the city’s finance department said in a
Sept. 5 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  