-- 
Merkel Fails to Tame Coalition in Greece Conflict

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-09-15T12:29:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/merkel-fails-to-tame-coalition-in-greece-conflict.html
A rift within German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s government over how to counter the debt crisis
deepened, prompting a senior member of her party to call for an
end to “reckless” talk about Greece leaving the euro.  The comments by Michael Meister, the parliamentary finance
spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , were a rebuke
to Economy Minister Philipp Roesler, who leads Merkel’s Free
Democratic coalition partner. Hours after Merkel and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  signaled they’re ready to keep
supporting Greece, Roesler used a newspaper interview to stoke
the squabble by raising the option of restructuring Greece’s
debt and saying he has a duty to be “ outspoken .”  “We need to stick to the position that it’s right for us
to keep a euro that’s stable in the long term, with all members
of the euro zone, and not stoke any other debates,” Meister
told reporters in Berlin today.  Skirmishes over the euro’s future and financial aid to
 Greece  are intensifying in Merkel’s coalition before Sept. 18
regional elections in Berlin, the last of seven state votes this
year that have seen the coalition parties punished as the crisis
escalated. Merkel’s CDU has lost support or been defeated each
time, while the Free Democrats have lost all their seats in four
of the state assemblies as their national support has collapsed.  “Of course people are concerned about Greece, but
Roesler’s late adoption and handling of the theme will fall flat
on its face,” Peter Matuschek, an analyst at the Berlin-based
Forsa polling group, said by phone. His remarks merely serve to
“highlight his party’s disorientation.”  Greece’s Euro Future  Global stocks rebounded after Merkel and Sarkozy said late
yesterday that they’re “convinced” Greece will stay in the
euro area. With policy makers from the U.S. to  China  urging
Europe to step up its crisis fight, officials meet tomorrow in
Wroclaw,  Poland , to discuss how to implement the expansion of
the euro region’s new bailout fund. The euro rose 0.5 percent to
$1.3817 at 12:46 p.m. Berlin time.  Merkel, who says she wants to avoid a breakup of the
currency union and give Greece time to carry out austerity
measures, slapped down Roesler two days ago for saying there can
be no “taboos” when considering action “to stabilize the euro
in the short term,” including a Greek insolvency.  He raised the option again in an interview today in the
Berlin-based Tagesspiegel newspaper. Restructuring Greece’s debt
may also be a way to protect German taxpayers, Roesler said in a
transcript distributed by his party’s media service.  ‘Outspoken’ and Unbound  “I have to be outspoken, especially in my position,” he
said. “People wonder what lies ahead for our currency and for
 Europe . And they ask us how long we have to pay when a country
is unwilling or unable to get its economy back on its feet.”  The Free Democrats have made  Germany ’s participation in
bailouts for fellow euro members Greece, Ireland and  Portugal 
into a campaign theme in Berlin, where polls suggest the party
will drop out of the city-state’s legislature for the first time in
12 years. An FDP campaign ad opposes joint bond issuance by euro
countries, which Merkel also says wouldn’t solve the crisis.  “No to euro bonds,” says the radio ad posted on the
party’s website. “As a taxpayer, you shouldn’t pay other
countries’ debts. Vote for the FDP on Sept. 19.”  Merkel, who made eight campaign stops for Sept. 4 elections
in her home state of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, focused on
handling of the debt crisis and rejection of joint euro-area
bonds. The CDU suffered its worst result ever in the state,
losing the vote to the  Social Democrats , the main opposition
party nationally. In Berlin, a city-state also ruled by the
Social Democrats, Merkel is making just two campaign stops, this
time under the slogan: “This city must be better governed.”  Berlin Polls  Latest polls suggest the Social Democrats will retain
Berlin after a campaign based around the popularity of Mayor
Klaus Wowereit. Support for the SPD is 32 percent after 30.8
percent in the last election in 2006, with Merkel’s CDU little
changed on 21 percent, an FG Wahlen poll for ZDF television
showed on Sept. 9.  The Greens have 19.5 percent, up from 13.1 percent, making
them a potential candidate as junior coalition partner to the
SPD. The Left party, which currently governs with the SPD, is at
11 percent, down from 13.4 percent. Roesler’s Free Democrats,
with support at 3 percent after 7.6 percent, may fail to cross
the 5 threshold to win parliamentary seats. They might even be
replaced by the  Pirate Party , which with 5.5 percent support is
poised to win its first seats in any legislature.  FG Wahlen polled 1,492 voters with a margin of error of as
much as 2.5 percentage points.  Merkel sought to put a lid on her coalition’s squabbling in
a German  radio interview  aired on Sept. 13, saying “everybody
should weigh their words very carefully.”  Rhetoric from Merkel’s coalition is unsettling financial
markets and Roesler should “perhaps be a bit more careful”
since euro-area governments don’t have a system yet for managing
an orderly default, Meister said. Coalition members should
“radiate stability and confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg. 