-- 
Erotic Poem by Frederick the Great Discovered in Secret Archive

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-09-15T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/erotic-poem-by-frederick-the-great-discovered-after-200-years-in-germany.html
An erotic poem by Frederick the
Great that was long believed lost has been discovered in a
secret Berlin  archive , more than 200 years after the Prussian
monarch’s death, the weekly Die Zeit newspaper reported.  Written in French a few weeks after Frederick became king,
the poem is called “La Jouissance,” which can refer to
pleasure in the general sense or to a sexual climax. A copy of
the original manuscript was found among some of the king’s
letters, where it had been for more than 100 years.  Frederick sent the poem to Voltaire, with whom he regularly
corresponded on philosophy and topics of the day, Die Zeit said
in today’s paper. In an accompanying letter, Frederick said it
was the only poem he’d had time to write since ascending to the
throne. The king also explained that he’d written it for an
Italian friend, Francesco Algarotti, who claimed that northern
Europeans were less capable of feeling than southerners.  “I have had feelings and described them as best I could to
show him that we are capable of sentiment despite our
constitution,” Frederick wrote to Voltaire. “Tell me whether
my description works or not. Remember that there are moments
that are as difficult to describe as the sun in its splendor.”  Frederick appointed Algarotti the romantic hero of his
poem, describing a steamy encounter with a woman he names as
Chloris, a beautiful virgin of Greek mythology.  Dissolving Kisses  The hero is “beside himself with love, trembling with
impatience” as he falls into her arms. Frederick describes
“kisses dissolving into lust, sighs and death,” and “arising
again in a kiss, to become lust once more.”  He concludes by observing that the next morning, it is all
over, though “a moment of lust is worth as much to him who
enjoys it as a century of honor.”  The poem was not included in a 19th-century publication of
Frederick the Great’s verse which encompassed 31 volumes, Die
Zeit reported. No one knew then what had become of it.  Though it later resurfaced, the poem was deliberately
omitted from a 10-volume edition of his verse published in 1912
to mark Frederick’s 200th birthday, the paper said. A poem
praising sensual lust as the “mistress of the world” may have
been considered inappropriate for the king and deliberately
“forgotten,” the paper said.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 