-- 
Esprit Hiring Manager for China, Seeking to Double Sales After Net Plunges

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-15T16:11:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/esprit-hiring-manager-for-china-seeking-to-double-sales-after-net-plunges.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , the Hong
Kong-listed clothing retailer that makes most of its sales in
 Europe , is hiring a manager for  China  as it plans to more than
double sales in the world’s most-populous nation in four years.  The new executive’s goal is to meet Esprit’s stated targets
of HK$6 billion ($770 million) sales in China in the fiscal year
that ends June 2015, with 1,900 sales outlets, Chief Executive
Officer Ronald Van der Vis said yesterday.  “Given the importance of China, I want to have one boss
who runs wholesale and retail,” said Van der Vis, adding Esprit
usually has different managers for the two businesses. He also
aims to build a “dedicated design team in China,” as he sets
up a team of designers in Paris.  “We became too safe and boring,” said Van der Vis, who
yesterday reported a 98 percent decline in full-year profit on
the cost of closing stores and selling its U.S. and  Canada 
operations. Esprit, which has lost 59 percent of market value
this year, hired the brand director and creative director of
 Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ’s H&M to rejuvenate its fashions.  Esprit plummeted 18 percent, the most in more than three
years, to HK$15.08 in Hong Kong trading yesterday after  saying 
net income fell to HK$79 million in the year through June 30,
from HK$4.23 billion in the previous period.  Return on Investment  The retailer that  started  in California more than 40 years
ago is in talks with to sell its operations in U.S. and Canada,
which had a full-year operating loss of HK$410 million.  “It’s a pity, but we have to be realistic -- China is our
future, not  North America ,” Van der Vis said in an interview in
Hong Kong. “The return on our investment is so much higher in
China on every euro or  Hong Kong  dollar that we invest than in
 New York .”  He won’t sell the rights to the Esprit brand and prefers
selling to a buyer who “is interested in pursuing the same
brand direction” the Hong Kong-based company is taking
elsewhere, he said.  Van der Vis said he arrived at a “hand-shake” deal this
week with a Chinese woman who will be Esprit’s China chief,
reporting directly to him. He declined to provide details.  The maker and retailer of casual clothing had more than
1,000 points of sales in 185 cities in China as of June. Sales
in China more than tripled to HK$2.68 billion from a year
earlier, accounting for 7.9 percent of global sales.  ‘Pulse of Fashion’  Esprit revenue derived from the rest of the world fell an
average of 5.6 percent, according to Bloomberg calculations
using data in the company’s earnings statement. The company
plans to close 80 stores worldwide, including 24 in  Germany  and
12 in  France .  The casual clothing maker made 79 percent of its HK$33.8
billion of full-year sales in Europe.  Setting up a design team in Paris will enable Esprit to be
“closer to the pulse of fashion,” Van der Vis said. “I want
to inject more newness and fashion on a regular, ongoing basis
with shorter lead times. I want people, when they have lunch,
they go out and smell the fashion in the street.”  Esprit plans to spend HK$6.8 billion on branding over the
next four years, focusing its efforts in Germany, France,
 Belgium , the Netherlands and China, according to a  company
presentation .  The company aims to spend the equivalent of as much as 8
percent of sales on branding and marketing over the next four
years, compared with 2.5 percent in the past, before reducing
the percentage to “industry average levels of 4 percent to 5
percent,” according to the document.  Esprit was started in 1968 by Susie and Doug Tompkins, who
sold clothes out of the back of a station wagon in  San
Francisco , according to the company’s website. The
transformation into a global brand began three years later when
they met Michael Ying, who was chairman from 1993 to 2006.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  