-- 
ETF Securities Sued by Former Executive in U.K. Over Bonus

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-09-16T08:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/etf-securities-ltd-sued-by-former-executive-in-u-k-over-bonus.html
ETF Securities Ltd., the world’s
largest provider of exchange-traded commodity funds, was sued in
London by a former employee who says he is owed a stake in the
company tied to a 2006 bonus award.  Stefan Garcia, now an executive at another ETF firm, said
the bonus gave him options to buy 1,000 shares of the company at
49.99 pounds ($78.74) with no time limit, according to U.K.
court documents filed in July.  ETF Securities, based in  Jersey , is considering selling as
much as $1 billion in shares through an initial public offering
amid growing investor demand for exchange-traded products,
according to a May report in the Wall Street Journal that cited
unidentified bankers familiar with the matter. A potential share
sale would yield “very significant value" for Garcia, his
lawyers said in a court filing.  Graham Tuckwell, chairman and chief executive officer of
ETF Securities, said in a phone interview yesterday the case was
‘‘absolutely without merit.’’ He said the claim was based on a
‘‘small administrative error’’ and the options had expired.  Garcia was awarded the options because at that early stage
the company had ‘‘limited cash to fund its growth,’’ according
to documents filed by his lawyers. Tuckwell sent Garcia an e-
mail in May 2011 refusing to allow him to exercise the options.  Mark Levine, a partner at  London  law firm Mishcon de Reya
who is representing Garcia, said his client had a multimillion
pound claim and declined to comment further.  Assets Increasing  ETFs are index-based products which allow investors to
trade in shares of an entire portfolio of stocks or type of
commodity in a single security.  ETF Securities has more than $30 billion in assets under
management, the company said on Sept. 7. Assets increased by
52 percent in the past year.  Garcia is now executive director of institutional sales at
Source, according to the company’s website. The online biography
said he had been a ‘‘senior executive’’ at ETF Securities,
working on the marketing and distribution of exchange traded
commodities.  The case is: Mr Stefan Garcia Cherrin v. ETF Security Ltd.,
HQ11X02645,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  