-- 
EU Lowers Euro-Area Growth Forecasts on Worsening Outlook From Debt Crisis

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-09-15T10:40:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/eu-lowers-euro-area-growth-forecasts-on-worsening-outlook-from-debt-crisis.html
The European Union cut its growth
forecasts for the second half to reflect a worsening outlook on
the sovereign-debt crisis and warned the euro-area economy may
come “close to standstill at year-end.”  The 17-nation euro region will expand 0.2 percent in the
third quarter and 0.1 percent in the fourth, down from an
estimate in March for 0.4 percent expansion in both periods, the
European Commission in Brussels said today. The growth outlook
for Germany,  Europe ’s biggest economy, was lowered to 0.4
percent for the third quarter and 0.2 percent for the fourth,
down from 0.5 percent for each quarter earlier. It forecast no
growth for  Italy  in the second half.  “The outlook for the European economy has deteriorated,”
 Olli Rehn , EU economic and monetary affairs commissioner, said
in a statement. “The sovereign-debt crisis has worsened, and
the financial market turmoil is set to dampen the real
economy.”  Group of Seven finance chiefs vowed on Sept. 9 to make a
“concerted effort” to support growth as efforts to rein in
budget deficits curtail demand and increasing concerns about
 Greece ’s ability to avoid a default roil financial markets.
Exports from  Germany , the region’s largest economy, declined in
July while investors and executives grew more pessimistic last
month as the sovereign-debt crisis threatened to engulf  Spain 
and Italy.  German Growth  The euro rose against the dollar after the report, trading
at $1.3811 at 11:38 a.m. in  London , up 0.4 percent on the day.  The commission forecast the euro region will expand 1.6
percent this year, the same as it predicted in May. It raised
its forecast for annual German growth to 2.9 percent from 2.6
percent. It forecasts 2.5 percent euro-area inflation this year,
compared with a prediction of 2.6 percent in May.  “They are too optimistic,” said Tobias Blattner, a former
ECB economist now at Daiwa Capital Markets Ltd. in London. “We
don’t think Germany will make the quarterly growth numbers they
are forecasting and that’s why euro-area growth will be lower.”  The commission cut its 2011 forecast for Italy while
maintaining its prediction for Spain, whose bond yields surged
to euro-era highs in August, prompting the  European Central Bank 
to intervene to prop up the two countries’ bond markets. Italy
will expand 0.7 percent compared with an earlier prediction of 1
percent, and Spain will expand 0.8 percent.  Italy, Spain  In the third and fourth quarters, Italy will show no
growth, and Spain will expand just 0.1 percent, according to
today’s projections.  France ’s economy, which stagnated in the second quarter,
will grow 1.6 percent this year, down from 1.8 percent seen in
May, the commission said. The Netherlands will expand 1.7
percent versus 1.9 percent, the commission said. France will
grow 0.2 percent in each of the next two quarters, while the
Netherlands will expand just 0.1 percent in each of them.  Central bankers see a “slowing down in comparison with
what has been observed,” ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
on Sept. 12 after leading the Global Economy Meeting in Basel,
Switzerland. The ECB cut its 2011 euro-area growth forecast on
Sept. 8 to 1.6 percent from 1.9 percent. It sees inflation at
2.6 percent this year and 1.7 percent next, compared with the
bank’s ceiling of 2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  