-- 
EU Prepares for Talks as Debt Crisis Threatens to Choke Growth

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-09-15T12:20:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/eu-prepares-for-talks-as-debt-crisis-threatens-to-choke-growth.html
European finance ministers are
preparing for more talks tomorrow as the debt crisis threatens
to bring the economy to a standstill even as Germany and  France 
signal they’re ready to keep supporting Greece.  The European Commission today cut its euro-region growth
forecast to 0.2 percent for the third quarter and 0.1 percent in
the fourth, down from 0.4 percent for both periods previously,
saying the market fallout from the debt crisis is choking the
recovery. With global policy makers urging Europe to step up its
crisis fight, officials meet in Wroclaw,  Poland , tomorrow to
discuss how to expand the euro region’s new bailout fund.  Investor skittishness over the spread of Europe’s debt
crisis has raised banks’ funding costs and roiled markets
worldwide. As European governments try to ratify a July 21
agreement to bolster the region’s bailout fund and extend a
second rescue to  Greece , traders are concerned that  Italy  and
 Spain  will be the next countries to get into trouble.  “Today the euro zone faces a systemic problem, not a Greek
problem,”  Steve Barrow , the London-based head of Group-of-10
currency research at Standard Bank Plc, wrote in a note to
investors today. “Greece might be the weakest link, but the
chain is long.”  Global stocks rebounded after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said late yesterday that they’re
“convinced” Greece will stay in the euro area. The euro
climbed 0.1 percent to $1.3767 at 11:04 a.m. in Berlin and the
Euro Stoxx 50 Index added 1.4 percent.  ‘Little Choice’  With markets as fragile as on the eve of the financial
crisis three years ago, Merkel and Sarkozy “had little choice”
other than to back Greece, said  Jim Reid , a strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG in  London . “The challenges will continue to
mount for Greece and for  Europe  in the weeks ahead, but this
reduces the immediate risk of a financial disaster.”  Spain managed to sell 3.95 billion euros of bonds today,
with securities due Oct. 31, 2020 priced to yield 5.156 percent,
compared with 5.2 percent when last sold on Feb. 17. The yield
on its 10-year bond rose 5 basis points to 5.41 percent, 350
basis points more than German bunds.  “Taking into consideration the current environment, the
auction result was not too bad overall,”  Chiara Cremonesi , a
fixed income strategist at UniCredit SpA in London. “Demand was
fine, prices were more disappointing, but in the current
environment this was expected.”  Italian Bonds  Italy saw its financing costs jump at a bond auction two
days ago. The extra yield that investors demand to hold Italian
10-year bonds over German bunds closed at a euro-era high on
Sept. 13 of 392 basis points, or 3.92 percentage points. It was
at 371 basis points today.  Europe’s crisis has worsened as leaders split on how to
deal with Greece. Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao yesterday called on
other countries to “put their houses in order” and  Timothy F. Geithner  will tomorrow become the first U.S. Treasury Secretary
to attend a European finance ministers’ summit.  Underscoring divisions in Europe, European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  said he was close to proposing options on
joint euro-area bond sales, putting officials in Brussels on a
collision course with  Germany  over steps to contain the
sovereign debt crisis.  “The commission will soon present options for the
introduction of euro bonds,” Barroso told the European
Parliament yesterday in Strasbourg, France, prompting applause
from lawmakers who have backed the idea and a swift rejection
from officials in Berlin. “Some of these options could be
implemented within the terms of the current treaty; others would
require treaty change.”  Conference Call  In the three-way telephone call, Papandreou committed to
enacting policies demanded by the EU and International Monetary
Fund to keep the bailout money flowing. Sarkozy and Merkel “are
convinced that the future of Greece is in the euro zone,” the
French statement said.  “I am skeptical that this will help to reassure markets,”
said Tullia Bucco, an economist at UniCredit Global Research in
Milan. “The road to the implementation of the second aid
package is still quite long and may prove bumpy.”  The Greek Cabinet this month endorsed measures to help meet
deficit targets of 17.1 billion euros in 2011 and 14.9 billion
euros in 2012, covering a 2 billion-euro shortfall for this year
that has been exacerbated by a deepening recession.  The fulfillment of Greece’s adjustment program is “more
than ever” essential and is a condition for the payment of
further aid tranches, Merkel said in the call, according to an
e-mailed statement from her chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert.  Saving Country  Papandreou said Sept. 10 that the government’s top priority
is “to save the country from bankruptcy” and said he would do
whatever is necessary to meet targets.  Putting austerity programs into place “is indispensable to
establish sustainable and balanced growth in Greece,” according
to the statement issued in Paris. “The success of the Greek
plan will provide stability to the  euro zone .”  While the ECB is currently leading the euro region’s crisis
strategy as it buys the bonds from Ireland to Spain and Italy,
euro governments want to expand the powers of their bailout
fund, the European Financial Stability Facility Fund.  Its chief financial officer, Christophe Frankel, said in
 Singapore  today that parliaments may approve it by early
October. The EFSF probably won’t issue long-term bonds before
the first week of October, and market conditions will be a
determinant, he told reporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  