-- 
Euribor-OIS Spread Falls for Third Day Amid Backing for Greece

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-09-15T10:19:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/euribor-ois-spread-falls-for-third-day-amid-backing-for-greece.html
A gauge of banks’ reluctance to
lend to each other in  Europe  fell for a third day after Germany
and France insisted they saw a future for  Greece  as part of the
euro region.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the three-
month euro interbank offered rate and overnight index swaps, was
at 77.2 basis points as of 11:17 a.m. in  London , down from 79.6
yesterday and 84.6 on Sept. 12, which was the highest level
since March 2009.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy said yesterday they’re “convinced” Greece will
remain in the euro area. Optimism Europe’s most indebted nation
will now be able to stave off default for longer outweighed the
harm done by an announcement by  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest
bank, that it may post a third-quarter loss because of a $2
billion loss from unauthorized trading.  “The soothing statement from the German and French
leadership yesterday continues to be a main market theme,”  Jim Reid , the head of fundamental credit strategy at Deutsche Bank
AG in London, wrote in a note. “The challenges will continue to
mount for Greece and for Europe in the weeks ahead but this
reduces the immediate risk of a financial disaster.”  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
insuring the senior debt of 25 lenders and insurers fell for a
third day, dropping 10 basis points to 275, compared with a
closing-price record of 314 on Sept. 12, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. The subordinated index declined 19.5 basis points to
498, signaling an improvement in investor perceptions of credit
quality.  Euribor Rises  Three-month Euribor -- the rate banks say they pay for
three-month loans in euros -- rose to 1.531 percent from 1.529
percent yesterday.  The  European Central Bank  said financial institutions
increased overnight deposits. Banks parked 86.9 billion euros
with the ECB yesterday, from 75.5 billion euros on Sept. 13, the
Frankfurt-based lender said in data released overnight. The ECB
currently lends banks as much cash as they need in its
refinancing operations at its benchmark rate of 1.5 percent.  The ECB said emergency overnight loans to commercial banks
jumped to the highest in more than a month at the start of its
latest maintenance period.  The premium European banks pay to borrow in dollars for 12
months through the swaps markets was little changed, after
reaching the the highest since December 2008 earlier this week.  The cost of converting euro-based payments into dollars, as
measured by the 12-month cross-currency  basis swap , was 71 basis
points below Euribor, from a closing price of 70.5 yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. An increase indicates a
higher premium to buy the greenback.  The three-month basis swap was at 97 basis points, from 98.
Basis swaps allow banks to borrow in one currency while
simultaneously lending in another.  Germany  will do what’s needed to backstop the euro, which
has proved itself to be “stable” and a “pillar” of the nation’s
economic success, Merkel said in a speech in  Frankfurt  today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  