-- 
Europe’s Credit Crisis Is Also an Identity Crisis: John Bruton

-- B y   J o h n   B r u t o n
-- 
2011-09-15T00:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/europe-s-credit-crisis-is-also-an-identity-crisis-john-bruton.html
Credit was crucial to the success
of Western economies in the past 150 years. Without credit,
there would have been no Industrial Revolution, no postwar
recovery, and no information-technology era. Houses wouldn’t
have been built, and shops wouldn’t have been stocked. All of
them used borrowed money.  It is important to reflect on what credit actually is. The
word means belief that debts will be repaid, or at least that
certain crucial categories of debt, like the sovereign bonds
issued by the governments of developed countries, will be. Take
away belief and, literally as well as metaphorically, you have
no credit. The difficult economic situation we now face derives
from the breakdown of belief in the ability of some countries,
notably  Greece , to repay sovereign debts. But the ability to pay
back isn’t something absolute and immutable.  Is there a will to repay Greek debt? That is a political
judgment. But the arithmetic is also important. If the  interest
rate  is too high, or the rate of growth in the economy and state
revenue is too low, even the strongest political will to repay
can be overcome. The more the markets demand a higher risk
premium against the possibility that a debt won’t be repaid, the
higher the interest rate will be, and the more likely market
participants will be to guard themselves against nonpayment.  Mirror Images  So, in a sense, the herd-like behavior of the markets, in
demanding ever-higher risk premiums for holding Greek debt, is
making more likely the very event whose consequences they are
madly trying to avoid. This is the weakness of rating companies.
They aren’t Olympian searchers for some objective truth. They
are just mirrors, held up to the faces of panicky traders,
reflecting back to them the terror in their own eyes.  Adult supervision of all of this has to come from outside
the market, from institutions that aren’t driven by fear of
losses, or appetite for gain. It also has to come from outside
the political arena, where, in Europe’s case at least, the
driving force is increasingly myopic nationalism, rather than an
objective appreciation of a collective European interest.  This is why the role of the  European Central Bank  is
crucial. It isn’t motivated by private gain or fear of private
loss. Nor is it driven by politics. Its goal is to preserve a
functioning credit system for the euro zone as a whole, and to
print money in certain critical moments.  Wheels of Adjustment  Why haven’t there been attacks on U.K. bonds, even though
Britain’s budget deficits have been worse than the euro-zone
average? It is because the U.K. can print money and allow a
little inflation into the system to oil the wheels of adjustment
toward a more austere future.  Although the ECB has stretched its mandate to the full, it
is still constrained in its ability to inject money into the
system with the purchase of bonds. Its narrow duty to keep
inflation below 2 percent -- combined with political pressures
from Germany and France, whose fears of inflation are out of
proportion -- has stopped the central bank from acting further.  The ultimate constraint on the ECB is political. There is
an insufficient sense of a common European interest among the
voters of the euro-zone countries. Populations were enthusiastic
about  Europe  when it meant funds flowing from other EU
countries, and secure, growing markets for the goods and
services they wanted to sell. But now the flow of funds is
reduced and has to be spread more thinly among more members, and
the markets are still secure, but they are no longer growing.  Us and Them  There was no underlying emotional bond, no sense that the
Greeks or the Germans are “us,” not “them.” The absence of
an “us” feeling among the populations of the euro zone is now
being laid bare. It is significant that when the governments of
the EU countries came to redesign the constitution, which had
been rejected in  France  and the Netherlands, they dropped the
provisions on the European flag and anthem, which spoke to the
creation of a common emotional tie between all EU citizens.  Symbolism is important and the constitutional downgrading
of those symbols revealed an unhealthy contradiction between a
desire to forge a common currency, and an unwillingness to
demonstrate an allegiance to the entity that was embarking on
that ambitious and hazardous enterprise.  We have seen where this has led. The use in recent times
of the intergovernmental method, under which each member has a
veto, to make key EU economic decisions has caused incoherence
and delay, and has generated anger, frustration and a culture of
blame. It only encourages grandstanding and contradictory
nationalistic demands.  We need to revert to using the traditional EU decision-
making method to make the new category of decisions required in
the current crisis. This means a strengthened  European
Commission  should develop proposals that are coherent and
relevant to the interests of all countries, small as well as
large. The  Council of Ministers  would need a majority vote
representing at least 66 percent of the EU population, and the
directly elected European Parliament would have to agree by
simple majority.  The EU needs more than a financial solution to a financial
problem. To restore credit, it needs to restore belief -- not
only in the EU as a project, but in the competence and quiet
efficiency of European political institutions.  (John Bruton was Ireland’s prime minister from 1994 until
1997 and the European Union’s ambassador to the U.S. from 2004
until 2009. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Bruton at  jgbcor@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
David Henry at   dhenry2@bloomberg.net  