-- 
Euro Bonds Won’t Cure What Ails Europe: Kotz, Krahnen and Leuz

-- B y   H a n s - H e l m u t   K o t z ,   J a n   P i e t e r   K r a h n e n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   L e u z
-- 
2011-09-15T00:01:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/euro-bonds-won-t-cure-what-ails-europe-kotz-krahnen-and-leuz.html
In recent weeks, euro bonds have
gained traction in policy circles as the solution to the
sovereign-debt crisis.  The proposed debt could be structured in different ways,
but in all cases it would imply joint and severally issued
obligations by the members of the  euro zone  and would
fundamentally change the fiscal operations of the union.  Given their permanent nature and lasting impact, euro bonds
shouldn’t be considered merely as a way to contain the current
crisis, but also as a tool to prevent future outbreaks. They
would fare poorly in both tasks.  Euro bonds aren’t necessary to contain the crisis: Better,
more targeted solutions are available. And they aren’t suitable
for achieving institutional reforms, which should be separate
from short-term measures, and designed to strengthen the long-
term viability and resilience of the euro zone’s economic and
political structures.  In this regard, these securities are a bad idea not because
they would provide transfers to weaker member states, as is
often pointed out, but because the transfers would be neither
transparent nor controllable. Indeed, euro bonds would cement
 Europe ’s structural problems.  Any lasting solution must clearly distinguish between
illiquidity, insolvency and structural deficiencies, and should
address each in a transparent manner, considering the political
processes involved. By contrast, the euro bond proposals fail to
differentiate between these issues and, as a result, hurt
transparency and incentives.  Targeted Aid  This doesn’t mean that member states experiencing
difficulties shouldn’t receive help: Conditional loans and
transfers in support of structural reforms can help countries
regain a sustainable competitive position and reduce current-
account deficits and public-sector debt.  In any monetary union, even a well-functioning one,
imbalances in regional current accounts will develop from time
to time. If they accumulate into ever-increasing net debt
positions, they have to be corrected. But within a monetary
union, current-account deficits cannot be addressed by devaluing
the currency.  Instead, policy makers have only three measures: an
alignment of real wages; increased mobility of labor between
regions; or transfers between countries to support those that
are lagging behind. It should be noted, though, that adjustments
also include cuts, often painful ones, in public expenditures as
well as tax increases.  Benefits, Obligations  While transfers are disliked by many, at least in northern
Europe (or northern  Italy ), it is understood that a viable
monetary and economic union doesn’t only have benefits, but
obligations, too. This reminder applies particularly to  Germany 
and other highly competitive regions that have benefited from
the European Union’s common market and an enduring period of
monetary stability.  But transfers to weaker members aren’t simply justified on
those grounds; they can also make economic sense. This is
particularly true when the payments are directed toward
investments with positive externalities, such as infrastructure
and education, that help increase productivity and allow deficit
countries to escape their downward spiral.  Most importantly, conditional transfers have a decisive
advantage: They are transparent and limited in size and
duration. This allows for accountability as well as
benchmarking. For these reasons, transfers can be an element of
a modern “development union.”  Uniform Spreads  Euro bonds, however, provide transfers to weaker countries
through a reduction in their credit spreads. They help these
countries economically, but the transfers are hidden, not
targeted, and uncontrolled in magnitude or duration. These are
fatal flaws because subsidies embedded in  interest rates  cannot
be controlled in a way that makes them conditional on better
behavior. In view of the deep-seated structural problems that
have given rise to imbalances with the euro zone, joint euro
bonds would in fact prolong an inherently unsustainable
situation.  Moreover, euro bond proponents see them as the means to
reduce the current market uncertainty about the credit of  Greece 
and other sovereign debtors. This line of reasoning mistakenly
maintains that prevailing euro zone spreads mainly reflect
liquidity problems that are endemic to a monetary union in which
states can no longer count on their national central bank as a
liquidity backstop. Thus, rollover problems easily lead to a
downward spiral, to which euro bonds are seen as an answer.  Offloading Costs  Yet liquidity is hardly the whole story. If credit spreads
also reflect insolvency and structural problems, as is the case
in Europe now, euro bonds aren’t an appropriate answer because
they offload costs to third parties and provide few incentives
to fix underlying problems. In addition, short-term liquidity
problems could be handled by the European Financial Stability
Fund and its successor, and in extreme cases, by the  European
Central Bank .  Further, by averaging default probabilities, euro bonds
distort the interest rates at which countries can borrow and
thereby eliminate important signals to the markets. Interest-
rate spreads should reflect a country’s creditworthiness, and
should tell the public as well as politicians whether a
country’s fiscal policy is judged as sustainable. The spreads
also provide appropriate incentives for states to keep their
debt in check.  Implicit Guarantees  Euro bonds cannot perform this role because of their one-
size-fits-all pricing. This is particularly important because
fundamentally unjustified interest-rate convergence is a root
cause of the current euro-zone problems. Yet the market for
sovereign debt can perform this important role only if liability
is clearly established and there is no implicit bailout
guarantee.  That is why it is imperative to also solve the problem of
those guarantees for systemically important financial
institutions. That will require appropriate bankruptcy
procedures for banks as well as for sovereigns. There remains a
substantial need for improvement and regulatory action in this
area.  While targeted, conditional transfers are a better way to
resolve the current structural problems than euro bonds, they
are no panacea. The euro zone must also deal resolutely with the
current link between the banking sector and the risk of
sovereign borrowers.  Doing so will require a recapitalization of European banks
so that the debt of insolvent countries can be restructured.
Creating a working institutional environment in all euro regions
may require structural aid from the stronger countries, but such
help should be transparent and come with effective strings
attached.  (Hans-Helmut Kotz, a former member of the executive board
of the Bundesbank, is a senior fellow at Goethe University’s
Center for Financial Studies in  Frankfurt  and a visiting scholar
at  Harvard University .  Jan Pieter Krahnen  is a professor of
finance at Goethe University. Christian Leuz is a professor of
international economics, finance and accounting at the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business and a contributor
to Business Class. The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Hans-Helmut Kotz at  kotz@ifk-cfs.de ;
Jan Pieter Krahnen at  krahnen@wiwi.uni-frankfurt.de ;
Christian Leuz at  christian.leuz@chicagobooth.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  