-- 
Euro Needs Restructuring, Coordinated Policies, FX Concept’s Taylor Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   P a u l a   D w y e r
-- 
2011-09-15T19:46:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/euro-needs-restructuring-coordinated-policies-fx-concept-s-taylor-says.html
John Taylor , founder and chief
executive officer of FX Concepts LLC, said the euro has to be
reorganized amid a failure to continuously coordinate policy.  The  European Central Bank  said it worked with the  Federal
Reserve , the  Bank of England , the  Bank of Japan (8301)  and the Swiss
National Bank to extend three-month loans to euro-area banks in
an effort to ensure they have enough cash for the rest of the
year, as policy makers seek to contain the European sovereign-
debt crisis.  “It certainly doesn’t get at really any of the major
problems at all,” Taylor said today in a panel discussion at
the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in New York, tied to the
magazine’s ranking of the 50 most influential leaders in global
markets, finance, business and government. “Continuous
coordinated action” is needed, he said.  The central banks acted after dollar funding dried up for
European banks in general, and French lenders in particular,
amid concern Greece is headed for a default.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) 
and  Societe Generale (GLE)  had their long-term credit ratings cut one
level this week by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited their
reliance on short-term funding and Greek exposure.  Yields on Greece’s two-year debt fell to 61.5 percent from
74.5 percent yesterday, according to Bloomberg data. Greek Prime
Minister George Papandreou committed yesterday to meet deficit-
reduction targets demanded as a condition for international aid,
according to a statement.  ‘Horrific Cocktail’  “There is such a horrific cocktail that we have, which is
monetary restraint, tightness and fiscal austerity,” said New
York-based Taylor, founder of the world’s largest currency-hedge
fund. “It’s an unbelievably bad mixture of policies.”  The euro rose 0.9 percent to $1.3883 at 1:55 p.m. in  New
York , after gaining as much as 1.3 percent, the most since Aug.
15. The dollar strengthened as much as 0.9 percent against the
yen before trading at 76.68.  “The euro has to be restructured,” Taylor said. “Germany
is going to come out on the top side of that.”  French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Germany’s Chancellor
Angela Merkel “are convinced that the future of Greece is in
the euro zone,” a French statement said yesterday after they
and Papandreou held a conference call to discuss Greece’s credit
crisis.  “It ought not to happen,” Taylor said of the possibility
of Greece leaving the euro. “It’s getting pushed that way and
nobody is doing anything to stop it,” he said.  No country can afford the breakup of the euro, said
Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income strategist in at Newedge Group
SA in  London . Companies and banks as well as the sovereign of
any nation that left the euro would default, she said today
during the same panel discussion at the Bloomberg Markets 50
Summit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Paula Dwyer in Washington ar 
 Pdwyer11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  