-- 
Europe Struggles to Speak With One Voice on Palestinian Status Vote at UN

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-09-15T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/europe-struggles-to-speak-with-one-voice-on-palestinian-status-vote-at-un.html
The European Union is struggling to
agree on a common position over Palestinian efforts to win
United Nations statehood recognition, exposing difficulties in
unifying the bloc’s 27 members to wield more global clout.  While  France  and the U.K. signaled they’re likely to
support the Palestinians at least in the UN General Assembly,
Germany has warned about the repercussions on peace talks with
Israel. Others such as the Netherlands and the  Czech Republic 
have indicated they’ll oppose the effort, a position at odds
with a broader swath of Europeans who support the UN strategy.  The EU’s foreign policy chief,  Catherine Ashton , told
reporters Sept. 12 in Cairo that before a UN resolution is
drafted, “there is no position” of the EU.  “This will do a lot of damage to the EU’s credibility and
its desire to play a bigger role in the Middle East,” Shada Islam, a  Middle East  expert at the Brussels-based Friends of
Europe policy-advisory group, said in a telephone interview.  As diplomats maneuver around the statehood strategy at a
pivotal stage in one of the Middle East’s most entrenched
conflicts, the wrangling has laid bare divisions among European
states that have varying relations to Israel and the  Palestinian
Authority . It has also made European governments the target of
diplomatic parleying as the two sides and their allies seek to
win over heavyweights such as Germany, which has the EU’s
biggest economy.  The EU doesn’t have much time left to coordinate, with the
Palestinians planning to present their application for
membership on Sept. 23 for consideration by the UN Security
Council.  ‘Battlefield is  Europe ’  “The battlefield is Europe,” Robert Malley, director of the
Brussels-based International Crisis Group’s Middle East program,
said in an interview. The vast majority of Asian, Latin American
and African countries are likely to support statehood, he said.
“Europe is the X factor, and what the Israelis, Palestinians and
the U.S. are fighting for.”  European diplomats are trying to steer the Palestinians
away from a showdown in the 15-member Security Council, where
the U.S. has pledged to veto any resolution seeking to make
 Palestine  a member state of the world body, according to French
officials. Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  would
have a more receptive audience in the UN General Assembly, where
Palestinians say about 140 of the 193 members are likely to
support the bid.  Upgrading Status  A General Assembly vote would upgrade the Palestinians’
observer status from “entity” to “non-member state.” French
and U.K. officials said they would be amenable to a pro-
Palestinian vote there, depending on the language of a
resolution.  The elevation to non-member state would place the
Palestinians in a position similar to that of the  Holy See , the
government of the Roman Catholic Church, enabling them to sign
international treaties. That could include having cases heard in
the  International Criminal Court .  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has echoed other European
leaders in saying she prefers to focus on returning to the  peace
process , which the Palestinians broke off a year ago after
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  refused to extend a
partial 10-month construction freeze in West Bank settlements.
Italian officials have said they’ll probably follow  Germany .  Germany must consider “what happens the day after and
which decisions will at least not throw us back in terms of the
peace process,” Merkel said in Berlin on Sept. 9. U.S.
President Barack Obama and Netanyahu have also said the
establishment of a Palestinian state, living in peace alongside
Israel, should be worked out through direct negotiations.  ‘One Voice’  Merkel declined to say how Germany would vote at the UN.  “There is a very great ambition among Europeans on this
question to speak with one voice,” German Foreign Ministry
spokesman Andreas Peschke told reporters Sept. 14. “I can’t say
what voting intent is at the moment since I don’t know what will
be put on the table, or whether it will be put on the table.”  The EU has tried to put its stamp on the peace process,
working alongside the U.S., UN and Russia as a member of the so-
called Quartet, a body tasked with paving the way to a
negotiated settlement between  Israel  and the Palestinians.
Ashton’s position was created two years ago in an attempt to
give the EU one voice on foreign-policy and security issues.  The Dutch government rejects unilateral action on the part
of the Palestinians, Foreign Minister Uri Rosenthal told the
parliament in The Hague this week.  Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas was quoted by the CTK
newswire as saying on Sept. 15, “I can only say that we are
convinced that any unilateral step will only harm the peace
process and we do not support unilateral steps.”  “Unified here would mean 25 out of 27” EU states voting
in the same direction, Volker Perthes, director of the German
Institute for International and Security Affairs, said in a
Sept. 13 interview in Berlin. “I think there’s still a chance,
but I have a certain fear that it won’t happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 