-- 
European Stocks Rally on Greek Support, ECB Liquidity Measures

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-09-15T16:14:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/european-stock-futures-climb-as-sarkozy-merkel-back-greek-euro-membership.html
European stocks rallied as Germany
and France said  Greece  will remain a member of the euro and the
 European Central Bank  announced coordinated measures with the
 Federal Reserve  to ensure banks have enough dollars.  BNP Paribas SA and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  led a surge in
financial shares after the ECB said it will lend the U.S.
currency to euro-area banks.  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  rallied 7.1
percent as the retailer’s sales topped analyst estimates.  UBS AG (UBSN) 
slid 11 percent, the most since March 2009, after Switzerland’s
biggest bank announced a $2 billion trading loss.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index advanced 2 percent to
228.69 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, extending its three-day
increase to 4.5 percent. The gauge has still fallen 21 percent
from this year’s peak on Feb. 17 as the region’s growing debt
crisis and worse-than-forecast U.S. economic reports added to
concern that the global recovery is at risk.  “The euro is a political instrument not a financial
instrument and an awful lot will be done to keep the euro area
intact,” said Bill Dinning, head of strategy at Kames Capital
Plc in Edinburgh. “There are a lot of challenges out there and
the market is having a tough time, so we are seeing a little bit
of a relief rally.”  Greek Assurances  French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said late yesterday they are “convinced” Greece
will stay in the euro area after a phone conversation with Greek
Prime Minister George Papandreou.  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet is due to give a speech
at 8 p.m. in Poland tomorrow after officials meet to discuss how
they expand of the euro region’s new bailout fund. Timothy F.
Geithner will become the first U.S. Treasury Secretary to attend
a European finance ministers’ summit.  National benchmark indexes climbed in all 18 western
European markets, except Greece and Ireland. Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX) 
advanced 3.2 percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained 2.1 percent and
France’s CAC 40 climbed 3.3 percent.  Stocks extended gains after the ECB said it will lend
dollars to euro-area banks to ensure they have enough of the
U.S. currency through the end of the year. The Frankfurt-based
central bank said that, in coordination with the Fed, the Bank
of England, the Bank of  Japan  and the Swiss National Bank, it
will conduct three dollar liquidity-providing operations with a
maturity of approximately three months. The loans are in
addition to the bank’s regular seven-day dollar offerings.  ‘Improved Newsflow’  “A slightly improved newsflow on the euro zone and banks
has been seized upon by investors,” said Ian Murrell, an
analyst at Pritchard Stockbrokers Ltd. in London “Markets
needed a rally and they got a reason for it.”  BNP Paribas (BNP) , France’s biggest bank, soared 13 percent to
30.50 euros, the largest advance since May 2010. Credit Agricole
surged 5.9 percent to 5.52 euros and Italy’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) 
rose 10 percent to 1.05 euros. The Stoxx 600 Banks Index jumped
4.1 percent, the biggest gain in more than a month.  The banks gauge climbed even as UBS lost 11 percent to 9.75
Swiss francs after saying it discovered a loss due to
unauthorized trades in its investment-banking unit. The firm
said the “matter is still being investigated” and no client
positions were affected.  London police arrested a 31-year-old man in connection with
the probe. The employee detained was Kweku Adoboli, said a
person familiar with the matter who requested anonymity. UBS
declined to identify the man.  H&M, Kingfisher  H&M rallied 7.1 percent to 197.90 kronor after Europe’s
second-largest clothing retailer reported sales that were better
than anticipated. Revenue at stores and online sites open for at
least a year was unchanged last month. Analysts surveyed by SME
Direkt had anticipated a drop of 7.2 percent on that basis.  Kingfisher Plc (KGF)  gained 4.8 percent to 251.1 pence after
Europe’s biggest home-improvement retailer reported a 24 percent
increase in first-half adjusted pretax profit to 439 million
pounds ($692 million). That beat the average analyst estimate of
408 million pounds.  Luxury-goods makers climbed after the National Business
Daily reported that  China  may issue a plan to cut taxes on the
industry by the end of the year. Tariffs on cosmetics will be
cut first and clothes and leather goods might follow, the
newspaper said, citing an unidentified person familiar with the
situation.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest
luxury-goods maker, increased 3.4 percent to 115.65 euros.
 Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  rallied 6.6 percent to 1,457 pence and Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA rose 1.2 percent to 48.60 francs.  ArcelorMittal (MT)  Advances  ArcelorMittal advanced 4.3 percent to 13.44 euros after
Citigroup Inc. upgraded its recommendation for the world’s
largest steelmaker to “buy” from “hold.”  Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Plc (JLT)  rallied 7.1 percent to 663
pence after Jardine Matheson Holdings Ltd., a Hong Kong-based
investment firm, agreed to raise its stake to 40 percent.  Aixtron SE sank 12 percent to 12.43 euros in Frankfurt
after reducing its sales forecast for 2011 to 600 million euros
to 650 million euros. The maker of equipment used to produce LED
screens had a previous prediction of 800 million euros to 900
million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer in  London  at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  