-- 
European Bank Shares Rally as ECB Moves to Ensure Dollar Access

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-09-15T16:10:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/european-bank-shares-rally-as-ecb-moves-to-ensure-dollar-access.html
BNP Paribas SA shares surged 13
percent, leading gains in financial stocks after the  European
Central Bank  said it will ensure euro-area lenders’ access to
dollars as the region’s debt crisis raises their funding costs.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said it will coordinate with the
Federal Reserve and other central banks to conduct three dollar
liquidity-providing operations with a maturity of approximately
three months. The move came less than a week after the Group of
Seven nations vowed to “take all necessary actions to ensure
the resilience of banking systems and financial markets.”  Underscoring the pressure on European banks, Moody’s
Investors Service lowered the credit rating of  Societe Generale (GLE) 
SA and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and said it may downgrade BNP Paribas,
 France ’s biggest lender. European banks are facing the threat of
a Greek debt default, which has prompted U.S. money-market
investors to curb funding to them.  “For sure, this measure reduces tension, but it also
increases the role of central banks,” Nicolas Veron, a senior
fellow at Bruegel, a Brussels-based economic-research group,
said in an interview. “The banking system is yet a bit more
dependent on the central banks and yet a bit further away from
its normal functioning.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will meet
European Union finance ministers and central bankers in Wroclaw,
Poland tomorrow to urge them to act more aggressively to counter
investor concerns. It’s the first time he’s ever joined one of
the region’s monthly gatherings.  Shares’ Gains  BNP Paribas (BNP)  gained 13.4 percent, the biggest gain in 16
months, to 30.50 euros ($42.25) in Paris trading after climbing
as much as 22 percent. That trimmed this year’s decline to 44
percent. Societe Generale rose 5.4 percent while Credit Agricole
added 5.9 percent.  Societe Generale, France’s third-largest bank by assets,
said it could resist a freeze in dollar financing from U.S.
money-market funds, which have cut their lending to European
banks.  “Even if it were to go to zero, there would be no
problem,” Societe Generale Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said in Bloomberg Television interview on Sept. 13. The
bank could withstand a freezing of financing from U.S. money-
market funds “forever,” Oudea said.  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in July that
the central bank is spending “a lot of time” evaluating the
exposure of U.S. financial institutions to  Europe . The Fed
doesn’t supervise the money-market funds yet has at times
stepped in to provide support, such as a backstop facility used
in 2008 and 2009 after the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund’s
collapse.  ‘Substantial Exposure’  Money funds have “very substantial exposure” to banks in
Germany and France that poses a concern because of those banks’
ties to debt problems in  Greece  and other nations on Europe’s
periphery, the Fed chief told reporters in June.  “What’s happened very recently is simply unsustainable,”
William Prophet, an analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.,
wrote in a Sept. 9 report. “While a decent amount of funding is
evidently still available to the French banking system, it is
all migrating towards the very front end of the money-market
curve, and regulators no longer look the other way when this
happens.”  Prime money funds in the U.S. reduced their holdings in
certificates of deposit issued by French banks by about 40
percent in the three months through Aug. 11, Prophet said in his
report based on a review of seven of the 10 largest funds
eligible to purchase corporate debt. The proportion of the
remaining holdings maturing in less than a month increased to 56
percent on Aug. 11 from 17 percent on June 11.  Money Funds  Until this year, U.S. money funds had increased their
holdings of European debt from 38 percent of assets in the
second half of 2006, according to  Fitch Ratings . The increase
was driven by the banks’ demand for dollar holdings and the
decreased supply of U.S. bank-issued debt, the company said.  Investors also charged the three banks an average 6.7 basis
points more to borrow three-month commercial paper on Sept. 8
than the rate the lenders said they could pay in the London
interbank offered rate market, according to two buyers who asked
not to be identified because the talks are private.  The 10 largest U.S. money funds eligible to purchase
corporate debt, with $658 billion in assets, as of the end of
July, cut their exposure to European banks by 9 percent from
June 30 and by 20 percent from May 31, Fitch said on Aug. 22.
The biggest exposure of U.S. money-market funds to single
financial institutions are BNP Paribas and Rabobank Groep of the
Netherlands, according to Fitch’s report.  ‘Anticipating a Problem’  “We are anticipating this becoming a problem, if the
European debt crisis does intensify going forward,” said
Stephen Jen, managing partner at SLJ Macro Partners LLP, an
investment and advisory firm in  London . European banks continue
to rely on dollar funding because it is historically one of the
world’s more liquid markets, and because it helps them match
their assets to their liabilities, he said.  French lenders top the list of Greek creditors with $56.7
billion in overall exposure to private and public debt,
according to a June report by the Basel, Switzerland-based Bank
for International Settlements.  “There was the fear that difficult funding in dollar could
spread to other banks,” said Michael Rohr, a banking analyst at
Sylvia Quandt Research GmbH in  Frankfurt . “Let’s see if it is
enough, the uncertainty over 2012 hasn’t been reduced through
this but funding concerns have ebbed.”  Addressing Concerns  Both BNP Paribas and Societe Generale are taking steps to
assuage investors and reduce their needs of U.S. dollar funding.  Societe Generale reduced its short-term dollar funding to
60 billion euros by the end of August from 72 billion euros at
the end of June, the bank said Sept. 12. Societe Generale also
said it plans to free up 4 billion euros in capital through
disposals by 2013.  BNP Paribas is cutting its corporate- and investment-
banking balance sheet by $82 billion, according to a Sept. 14
presentation. U.S. money-market funds represent most of BNP
Paribas’s 60 billion euros of short-term U.S. dollar net funding
needs, it said. BNP Paribas gets 36 billion euros of its short-
term dollar financing from U.S. money-market funds, compared
with 46 billion euros on July 29, bank data show.  The chief executive of  Credit Agricole , Jean-Paul Chifflet,
said Aug. 25 that his bank can cope with its U.S. dollar funding
needs even though its refinancing from U.S. money-market funds
is likely to fall “to zero” by year’s end. Credit Agricole has
$36 billion of refinancing related to U.S. money-market funds,
according to the bank’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  