-- 
Euro Rallies After ECB Liquidity Plan Damps Region’s Debt Crisis Concern

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-09-15T21:10:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/euro-advances-second-day-on-optimism-greece-will-remain-in-currency-union.html
The euro rose against the dollar
the most in a month after the  European Central Bank  said it will
lend dollars to euro-area banks, damping liquidity concern
related to the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency rallied as the ECB said it will
coordinate with the  Federal Reserve  and other central banks to
offer three separate three-month loans to ensure euro-area banks
have enough of the U.S. currency through the end of the year.
The dollar dropped after weaker-than-forecast economic reports
damped confidence in the recovery.  “The euro has come an exceptionally long way, it’s fallen
a lot in a short period, it had to find a stable level at some
point,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist
at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “Lots of little things
have come together to support the euro.”  The euro rose 0.9 percent to $1.3877 at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
after gaining as much as 1.3 percent, the most since Aug. 15.
The dollar strengthened as much as 0.9 percent against the yen
before trading at 76.70.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to tracks the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, declined 0.7 percent to 76.290.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.7 percent.  Swaps React  The premium European banks pay to borrow in dollars through
the swaps markets decreased after the ECB lending announcement.
The cost of converting euro-based payments into dollars, as
measured by the three-month cross-currency basis swap, fell 5.28
basis points to 93.13 basis points below the euro interbank
offered rate, or Euribor, in  London , indicating a lower premium
to buy the greenback, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s an attempt by the central banks to make sure there’s
enough liquidity so the markets don’t freeze,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate currency sales desk at
Societe Generale SA in New York.  The euro has dropped 3.4 percent so far this month as
investor skittishness about the spread of the debt crisis has
raised banks’ funding costs and roiled markets worldwide.  The ECB’s plan to lend dollars to banks doesn’t solve the
underlying problem, said  John Taylor , founder and chief
executive officer of FX Concepts LLC in New York.  Policy Signals  Policy makers need to coordinate continually, he said today
at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in New York. “They don’t act
until they act or else,” he said.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said yesterday they are “convinced”  Greece  will
stay in the currency union.  Sarkozy and Merkel signaled they’re ready to keep
supporting Greece following a telephone discussion with Greek
Prime Minister  George Papandreou . Papandreou committed to meet
deficit-reduction targets demanded as a condition for further
bailouts, according to the statements distributed by the
governments in Athens, Berlin and Paris.  “It could help to calm markets, but to be honest it
doesn’t really resolve the problem,” said Lauren Rosborough, a
senior strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in London. “There
are a lot of people who aren’t convinced Greece is going to stay
as part of the  euro zone . Risks to the euro still remain.”  Spanish Bonds  The euro rose earlier after  Spain  sold 3.95 billion euros
of bonds due in 2019 and 2020, compared with a maximum target of
4 billion euros. The debt due in October 2020 was sold to yield
an average 5.156 percent, compared with 5.2 percent when it was
last auctioned on Feb. 17. France sold debt maturing in 2013,
2014 and 2016, as well as inflation-linked securities.  The franc declined for a third day against the euro after
the  Swiss National Bank  said it’s ready to take “further
measures” if needed to stem gains in the currency and left its
benchmark rate at zero to ward off the threat of a recession.  The central bank last week imposed a franc ceiling of 1.20
against the euro. The SNB also reiterated today it will defend
the level with “utmost determination.”  The franc fell 0.1 percent to 1.20646 per euro. It gained
0.8 percent to 86.94 centimes per dollar.  Norway,  Sweden   Norway’s krone and Sweden’s krona gained the most among the
major currencies. The krone advanced 1.5 percent to 5.5675 per
dollar and Sweden’s currency rose 1.7 percent to 6.5821.  “The Scandinavian currencies are strong on their own
fundamentals, but they’re also very reliant on strength in
 Europe ,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in New York. “All eyes are on
Europe at this point.”  New Zealand’s dollar earlier fell against its U.S.
counterpart after the  Reserve Bank  held its official cash rate
at 2.5 percent and signaled no urgency to raise borrowing costs
until the global recovery strengthens.  The kiwi dropped as much as 1.4 percent before trading at
82.38 U.S. cents.  The Fed Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index rose
to minus 17.5 in September from minus 30.7 the prior month.  Other reports today showed more Americans than projected
filed claims for jobless benefits, consumer prices rose more
than forecast and New York-area manufacturing contracted more
than estimated.  The dollar rose against the yen as the consumer-price index
increased 0.4 percent after a 0.5 percent gain in July, figures
from the Labor Department showed today in  Washington . Economists
projected a 0.2 percent gain, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  