-- 
European Funding Market ‘Very Stressed,’ Nordea’s Clausen Says

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-09-15T09:35:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/european-funding-market-very-stressed-nordea-s-clausen-says.html
The European bank financing market
is “very stressed” and funding rates are unlikely to drop
until the region finds a solution to  Greece ’s debt crisis,
 Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  Chief Executive Officer Christian Clausen said.  “This is going to be a very stressful period for funding
markets,” the head of the largest Nordic bank said in Stockholm
today. “There needs to be a solution on Greece.”  European banks are having difficulties accessing funding
and their shares have plunged amid concern a deepening European
debt crisis will force losses on lenders. The  European Central
Bank  said today that emergency overnight loans to commercial
banks jumped to the highest in more than a month at the start of
its latest maintenance period.  Mattias Persson, the head of financial stability at
Sweden’s central bank, said Nordic banks continue to have access
to U.S. money market funds and Swedish lenders still have full
access to euro funding. The regulator also said the banks need
to address a mismatch between krona lending and foreign currency
funding as well as shore up their liquidity.  “Not many banks could issue unsecured debt right now, but
Swedish banks are probably some of the only ones to be able to
do that, though the costs would be high,” Persson said.  Sweden ’s biggest lenders, which include Nordea,  Swedbank
AB (SWEDA) , Svenska Handelsbanken AB and SEB AB, all passed the European
Banking Authority’s stress test on July 15 with a core Tier 1
capital ratio of at least 8.6 percent under an adverse scenario.
The minimum requirement was 5 percent.  Nordea rose 1.5 percent to 52.25 kronor as of 11:15 a.m.
The shares have slumped 28.6 percent this year.  “Nordics are still a safe haven,” Clausen said. “Sweden,
Finland trading below Germany, while Denmark is trading
marginally above, while still only slightly above Germany.”  Peter Straarup , the chief executive officer of Danske Bank
A/S, the largest Danish lender, also said today in  Stockholm 
that the funding market has “been very difficult this quarter
as the senior market has been closed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  