-- 
European Bank Blowups Hidden With Shell Games: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-09-15T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/european-bank-blowups-hidden-with-shell-games-jonathan-weil.html
The last time the world had a major
banking crisis, fair-value accounting rules were near the top of
the list of scapegoats most likely to be denounced by government
and industry leaders. Not so this go-around.  Today many of  Europe ’s largest financial institutions are
seemingly on the brink again, driven by fears of pent-up losses
stemming from the sovereign-debt debacle. Only you don’t hear
much criticism of fair-value reporting anymore. That’s probably
because the accounting mandarins gutted many of their fair-value
rules in response to the financial system’s near-meltdown three
years ago. This hasn’t made banks safer. It has given
politicians and bankers one less culprit to blame, though.  Fair-value accounting -- or the notion that financial
instruments should be recorded at market value on companies’
books rather than at historical cost -- made for a popular
whipping boy in 2008, both before and after the collapses of
 Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac , Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
American International Group Inc.  Companies supposedly were being forced to write down their
assets to temporarily irrational prices, or so the story went.
Critics said the practice exacerbated market downturns. The
boards that write accounting standards for Europe and the U.S.
responded by passing emergency amendments to their rules to give
the world’s banks and insurance companies a break. Predictably
this has only made matters worse in the long run, by hurting
investor confidence in some of the numbers financial companies
are reporting now.  EU Threat  Back in October 2008, after the European Union threatened
to override its standards legislatively, the London-based
 International Accounting Standards Board   changed  its rules on
balance-sheet classifications retroactively, so that companies
could immediately shift many of their financial assets out of
categories where fair-value accounting was required. This meant
a company holding lots of dodgy mortgage bonds, for example,
could delay recognizing future losses simply by changing the
bonds’ balance-sheet label.  Under current IASB rules, financial assets can be
 classified  in four ways. Those dubbed “fair value through
profit or loss” must be marked to market each quarter, with
changes hitting the income statement. “Available for sale”
means the assets must be marked to market on the balance sheet,
but changes in value typically don’t hit earnings.  The other classifications, called “held to maturity” and
“loans and receivables,” allow companies to avoid using fair
value on the balance sheet. In practice, these categories often
let companies postpone losses until long after an asset’s market
value has plunged, especially when it comes to bonds.  Greek Example  Take  Greece ’s largest lender, Athens-based  National Bank of
Greece SA (ETE) , for example. Last month the company said it recorded
an  impairment charge  to earnings of 1.3 billion euros ($1.8
billion) during the second quarter to write down Greek
government bonds. It wasn’t as if the losses had suddenly
materialized. Rather, they had been building for some time and
were finally being recognized.  As of the end of 2010, about 90 percent of the bank’s 12.8
billion euros of Greek government bonds were labeled as either
“held to maturity” or “loans and receivables,” in large part
because of  reclassifications  out of the available-for-sale and
fair-value categories during prior periods. There surely should
be bigger losses to come, with Greek bonds now trading at levels
that indicate a government default is almost certain.  Rules Violations  Given that backdrop, there was a glaring omission in a much
talked-about  letter  the IASB’s chairman, Hans Hoogervorst, sent
last month to the European Securities and Markets Authority.
Hoogervorst complained that some European companies seemed to be
violating the board’s rules for financial instruments, noting
the widely divergent approaches various banks used last quarter
to account for losses on Greek  government bonds .  Some companies, he said without naming names, weren’t
writing down impaired available-for-sale bonds to fair value as
they should have. And there’s no doubt he was  correct .  There was a catch, though. Hoogervorst said his letter
“does not address financial assets classified as held-to-
maturity or loans and receivables.” In other words, he ignored
the point that just maybe it was a horrible idea in 2008 for the
IASB to let companies reclassify their bonds into those
categories, even though that’s where much of the problem with
overstated asset values resides.  There’s a simple solution here. In 2005, when the IASB and
the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board began discussing
how to overhaul the rules for financial instruments, they said
one of their top three long-term  objectives  was this: “Require
all financial instruments to be measured at fair value with
realized and unrealized gains and losses recognized in the
period in which they occur.”  Path Untraveled  Both boards have abandoned that path. Bowing to pressure
from Congress and the banking industry, the FASB in early 2009
changed its rules to let companies keep large losses on impaired
bonds out of net income. If the broad principle the boards set
forth six years ago were in effect today, it wouldn’t be
possible to have multiple accounting treatments for the same
kind of bond on a company’s books. There would be only one.  The markets, meanwhile, know better than to believe the
banking industry’s balance sheets. And so we get the present
situation where most of Europe’s largest banks, including
 France ’s  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, are trading for
far less than what their books say their net assets are worth.
The problem with fair-value accounting now is investors don’t
get enough of it. Those banks that are destined to blow up will
do so regardless.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  