-- 
Europe Inflation Held Steady in August Amid Weakening Recovery

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-09-15T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/europe-inflation-held-steady-in-august-amid-weakening-recovery.html
European inflation held steady in
August as a faltering recovery and retreating energy costs eased
price pressures across the 17-nation euro region.  The inflation rate held at 2.5 percent, the same rate as in
July, the European Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said
today. That matches an initial estimate on Aug. 31 and the
median estimate of 30 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Euro-region payrolls rose 0.3 percent in the second quarter from
the first, when they increased 0.1 percent, a separate release
showed.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on
Sept. 8 softened his tone on the region’s inflation outlook,
calling risks “broadly balanced.” The central bank on that day
kept its key  interest rate  at 1.5 percent and lowered its growth
forecasts for this year and next. European economic confidence
slumped in August with consumers growing more pessimistic about
their ability to save over the coming year.  “We expect the ECB to remain on hold until December next
year with risks skewed toward a rate cut over the next few
months,” Fabio Fois, an economist at  Barclays Capital  in
 London , said in an e-mailed note before today’s release. Euro-
region harmonized inflation rates are “likely to start
declining from November onward.”  Euro-area inflation may average 2.6 percent this year and
1.7 percent in 2012, the Frankfurt-based ECB said last week.
Economic growth may weaken to 1.3 percent in 2012 from 1.6
percent this year, the bank projected. That’s down from a
previous forecast of 1.9 percent and 1.7 percent for this year
and next, respectively.  German Employment  With the economy showing increasing signs of a slowdown and
governments stepping up austerity measures, companies may
struggle to pass on higher costs. European manufacturing
contracted in August and German investor confidence dropped to
the lowest in 2 1/2 years. European unemployment held at 10
percent in July as companies in countries from  Spain  to Ireland
continued to cut jobs.  In  Germany , second-quarter employment rose 0.4 percent from
the first quarter, while French and Italian payrolls increased
0.3 percent, today’s report showed. In Spain, employment rose
0.4 percent and  Portugal  showed a 0.1 percent increase.  “We expect the euro-area economy to grow moderately,
subject to particularly high uncertainty and intensified
downside risks,” Trichet said last week. “Inflation rates are
likely to stay clearly above 2 percent over the coming months”
before declining below the ECB’s ceiling in 2012, he said.  Crude-oil prices have retreated 11 percent in the past
three months, leaving consumers with more money to spend just as
economic growth weakens. A slump in household spending was among
the reasons European economic growth slowed to 0.2 percent in
the second quarter from 0.8 percent in the previous three
months. Export growth also cooled in that period.  Euro-region core inflation, which excludes volatile costs
such as energy and gives an indication of underlying inflation
pressures in an economy, was steady at 1.2 percent in August,
today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at   smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  