-- 
Ex-Drug Smuggler Turned Data Miner Reclaims Field He Created

-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-09-15T15:29:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/ex-cocaine-smuggler-turned-data-miner-seeks-to-conquer-a-field-he-created.html
Hank Asher  -- high school dropout,
cyber pioneer, friend to law enforcers, enemy to child
predators, nemesis of privacy advocates, ex-cocaine smuggler --
is back in the business of finding almost everything that’s
known about anyone in the U.S.  Law enforcement  applauds Asher for his help in catching
child-predators. Defenders of privacy may regard the latest
version of his system to search databases and collate the
results as a menace, as they did his anti-terror Matrix system
developed during the  Bush administration .  Rival companies including  Reed Elsevier Plc (REL) ’s LexisNexis
Risk Solutions unit also may be paying attention, since on his
way to making almost half a billion dollars Asher invented
products they sell.  He is “kind of a legend,” said Greg Lambert, who co-
founded a legal-tech blog and runs the library for the Houston
office of the  law firm  King & Spalding LLP. “He makes a
product, puts it out, sells it, waits for the non-compete to
end, then comes up with another product.”  His new business is his last venture, Asher said, so he
named it  TLO Inc. , The Last One.  Asher’s field is  data  fusion, the collecting of bits of
information about people and businesses from thousands of data
bases and linking them to create a previously unseen mosaic:
typing in three Zip codes and getting a list of people who’ve
lived in all three, where they work and what they drive, for
instance.  ‘Best I’ve Seen’  “He is the best I’ve ever seen at being able to spot and
utilize relationships between vast data bases,” said Bruce Barrington, who created  Clarion , the computer language used in
Asher’s early products. Barrington, now retired, was on the
board of a previous Asher company.  Asher, 60 and freed of a non-compete agreement with  Reed
Elsevier , buyer of his last invention, said he and his staff are
revolutionizing the field he created with a system that
“changes all the rules.”  Its only possible rivals are the companies that  bought  his
previous data tools,  Thomson Reuters Corp.  and Reed Elsevier, he
said.  Through their spokesmen, Nicholas Ludlum for LexisNexis and
David Girardin for Thomson Reuters, the companies declined to
discuss Asher or TLO.  Asher unveiled AutoTrack, now called Clear and owned by
Thomson, in 1992. Accurint, now at LexisNexis, came along in
2001. They were considered “magic” in their day, Asher said.  Trillions of Records  The latest product, TLOxp, with “trillions of records,”
is faster, more comprehensive, more accurate and able to answer
harder questions than the earlier ones, he said. Its customers
are professionals such as lawyers, insurers, collection agencies
and private fraud investigators.  Nothing surpassed Accurint until now, said private
investigator Kelly Riddle in  San Antonio . For instance, he
credits TLOxp with helping him find a fraud suspect who had a
German last name.  Riddle used TLOxp to search for that name and others that
sound like it. If he had punched in Weiss, TLOxp would have also
searched for Vice. The man was using an Americanized phonetic
spelling of his German name. Bingo.  The investigator said he has 20 to 25 search products and
mostly uses TLOxp.  The system can find everyone within a certain age range who
lived in two neighborhoods and has a personal or professional
connection to someone named, say, Ann, according to Asher.  Phones, Gun Permits  It can link people to their mobile-phone numbers, liens,
cars, professional licenses and gun permits. It can tell you who
tried to use your Social Security number and where that person
claimed to live.  Anything you’ve posted without privacy limits on a social
media site like Facebook might wind up there, said TLO’s chief
privacy officer, Martha Barnett, a partner at the law firm
Holland & Knight in Tallahassee,  Florida .  Feed it three Zip codes and it lists people who have lived
or held jobs in all three, a demonstration showed. That might
help insurance investigators looking into similar frauds in
different cities, for example, said James Reilly, TLO senior
vice president for new accounts. A law firm might learn whether
a prospective client can pay a bill or has a conflict with a
current client.  The technology largely springs from the system Asher and
his team created to hunt criminals. He has helped find suspected
child molesters and other criminals such as the D.C. sniper.  Hates Bullies  A self-described bully-hater, Asher said he’s driven by the
beatings his father gave him, beginning when he was a toddler.
As an adult, he has put business on hold to channel resources
into identifying a child’s killer and searching for terrorists.  Asher, with brownish hair he cuts himself, graying beard
kept closely cropped, wide girth and ruddy complexion, chain
chews Nicorette gum a dozen years after he quit smoking.  “I think he has a suit,” said Bob Butterworth, former
Florida attorney general now a lawyer on retainer with TLO as a
prosecution and government-relations specialist. He said he once
gave Asher socks for Christmas and hasn’t seen them since.  Thrice married and thrice divorced, Asher wears khaki
pants, deck shoes and a knit golf shirt -- usually pink --
bearing the TLO logo. A bathroom off his office has a shower and
a rack of mostly identical clothes.  He runs his company from a 143,000-square-foot concrete and
glass building in  Boca Raton , Florida, office park. A police car
is always parked in front for security, paid for by the company.  Unfinished Feel  With 250 people in work space 2 1/2 times the size of a
football field, the place has an unfinished feel. Much of it
lacks furniture and people. He foresees growth, he said, and has
an option to lease another 500,000 square feet.  Preliminary versions of the new product have been available
for months to targeted industries. Asher said he expects TLO to
have a market capitalization of $1 billion in two years.  TLOxp came out of initial development in May. With upgrades
in the works, Asher won’t say when he’ll consider it ready for
the “marketing blitzkrieg” he plans.  The company had 17,700 customers as of Sept. 7 who pay 25
cents for a simple search and as much as $5 for advanced
reports, according to its website. They are mostly fraud and
corporate security investigators, law offices and collection
agencies, Asher said.  His journey to riches, poverty and rebound started in
Valparaiso,  Indiana , where he was 2 or 3 when his father, now
 deceased , began beating him with fists, he said. He left home at
16 as well as school, where he “felt like a caged animal from
first grade on.”  Job History  From then to 40, Asher said, he was a draftsman, an Indiana
house painter, a Florida condominium painter, owner of a condo
painting company and a retiree at 30 after selling the business.
He bought places in  Belize  and the Bahamas.  He said that in 1982 he was living in an area in the
Bahamas where American “rascals” who weren’t otherwise
criminals were flying and boating cocaine into the U.S. for
Colombians, making more money in a night than they would
otherwise in a year. Asher said he had refused such offers
countless times until “I met these older guys who were very
socially acceptable.” Asher said he wanted to “socially get in
with this group” and didn’t believe cocaine was dangerous, as
he does now.  Smuggling Scare  The Colombians began to scare him, he said. After seven
weeks as a cocaine pilot and with the help of a neighbor in the
Bahamas, famed lawyer F. Lee Bailey, Asher presented himself to
U.S. drug agents, who knew nothing about his activities, he
said. Asher said he persuaded U.S. pilots to get out of the
business. He was never charged and said he regrets smuggling
drugs.  A few years later, broke from big spending and bad
investing, he took up computer programming, he said.  The undereducated Asher began collecting data bases, an odd
endeavor in those days. This was 1992, in the predawn of the
contemporary Internet, four years before two Stanford University
graduate students  started  work on Google.  Asher heard that, to take advantage of a new Florida law,
an insurance man needed a way to find insured roommates of
uninsured motorists who’d been in collisions.  Early Search Tools  Asher bought Florida car registration information from the
state and learned to slice up content electronically and link
the pieces.  Eventually, he made it possible to get a dossier on almost
any American.  Data fusion wasn’t exactly new in 1992. Academia had been
working on theoretical models for decades, and the U.S. military
was using it in the field.  Asher took it to a new level to make tools useful to the
private sector, said  Auroop Ganguly , a senior researcher at the
Oak Ridge National Laboratory in  Tennessee  who has written about
data fusion.  Barrington said Asher’s “biggest insight was the fact that
you could really start to gain information about somebody from a
whole lot of data bases that no one had ever thought about using
together.”  The hard part, he said, was to “normalize” data from
different sources so the system knows, for example, whether the
Bruce D. Barrington on one data base is the same one that’s on
another.  Insurers, Police  Asher sold his systems to insurers, financial services
firms, the police, lawyers, reporters, private investigators
and, for a time, marketers.  He twice formed companies to sell his products, only to be
kicked out or leave after internal fights, he said.  The first creation, AutoTrack, took him seven months to
develop. He set up Database Technologies Inc. in 1992 to market
it, became chief executive officer and borrowed from his brother
to expand.  Five years after he incorporated the company that became
DBT Online, directors stripped Asher of his management role. He
left the board the next year and sold his shares in 1999, the
exact circumstances depending on whose version you believe.  Gary Erlbaum, then a DBT director, said the  Federal Bureau 
of Investigation and the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration
were alarmed on hearing of Asher’s past drug smuggling and
threatened to cancel their contracts if he kept his shares.  Stock Sale  Asher said he was unhappy over poor management and couldn’t
sell fast enough.  Either way, the stock sale gave Asher his first nine-digit
windfall: $148 million. Counting both cash-outs, he grossed $461
million for himself and his family, he said. Database
Technologies was bought by ChoicePoint Inc. for $462 million in
2000.  He wasn’t out of the DBT’s door when he started work on his
next venture, which became Seisint Inc. and marketed  Accurint .
ChoicePoint sued, accusing Asher of violating his non-compete
agreement. That was met by a countersuit for defamation and
interference with his business pursuits.  Those cases and related ones were settled on confidential
terms. A statement announcing the accord said the parties agreed
that “Hank Asher engaged in no wrongdoing.”  It isn’t clear how much, if at all, the competing
companies’ earnings might suffer if TLO takes business away from
them, said Claudio Aspesi, a London-based media analyst who
covers both companies for Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.  Small Pieces  Investigative data tools are a “small part of the total”
business of the diversified Reed Elsevier and  Thomson Reuters ,
he said by e-mail. “Neither company breaks down their
businesses at this level of detail.”  The Sept. 11, 2001, World Trade Center and Pentagon attacks
pushed Asher and Seisint into a new mission: Build a way to find
terrorists on U.S. soil.  Within days of the attacks, he went to work writing
computer code and setting up secure workspace at Seisint for
agents. By Sept. 17, Asher said, he had 419 names of U.S.
residents with characteristics giving them a high “terrorist
quotient,” a measurement he invented.  Asher’s list included “a number of persons” already of
interest to the FBI, said  Salvador Hernandez , then a Miami-based
FBI agent.  The Boca Raton work area was soon bustling with counter-
terrorism agents, said Hernandez, now the owner of a private-
investigations firm.  Sniper Killings  In 2002, when the  Washington  suburbs were terrorized by
seemingly random sniper murders, investigators “reached out to
Hank” whose system played “an important role” in eliminating
false leads and identifying the right target, John Allen Muhammad, Hernandez said.  Privacy advocates helped kill one of Asher’s anti-terrorist
inventions, calling it too invasive, too quick to taint the
innocent and crammed with data too sensitive to be entrusted to
a private company and data exchanges among states.  After a 2003 demonstration for Vice President  Dick Cheney 
of the system, a multistate information-sharing tool called
Matrix, Asher won a promise of $8 million in federal funds to
support it and cover part of the development cost. The  American
Civil Liberties Union  objected.  “Our concern was that they were creating a pattern to
describe people who should be investigated by law enforcement
when there was no evidence that people had done anything
wrong,” said Chris Calabrese, ACLU legislative counsel.  Seisint Argument  Seisint argued that Matrix simply sped the gathering and
analysis of information already available to law enforcement.
The civil liberties group said it posed a danger.  “Creating a program to combine separate, independently
available databases of information on innocent Americans is not
merely a ‘technological advancement,’ but a body blow to the
core American principle that the government will leave people
alone unless it has good reason to suspect them of wrongdoing,”
the organization said in a 2004  report .  States that planned to join pulled out.  Federal  funding
ceased in 2005.  Asher said the ACLU unfairly characterized his work. He
understands his responsibility to protect sensitive information,
he said.  “If you’re using data for a good purpose, I don’t think
people will object to it,” he said.  Law Enforcement  TLO’s law enforcement program began taking shape in 2008.
Asher was bound by a non-compete agreement with LexisNexis,
which bought Seisint in 2004 for $775 million. The agreement
allowed him to work for the nonprofit National Center for
Missing and Exploited Children, where he’s a board member and
according to the center a donor of more than $10 million.  TLO has signed up almost 88,000 investigators and
prosecutors in 50 states and 39 countries who use the service
for free, the company said.  Different levels of access are open to different users
based on the law and TLO policies, said Barnett, the privacy
officer. For instance, federal law lets a corporate security
officer investigating embezzlement get more personal information
than human-resources department can to verify where a would-be
hire lives.  Barnett said TLO has built in systems to protect privacy.
There is “a recognition of how powerful this data is, and that
we want to honor people’s privacy to the extent possible,” she
said.”  TLO does background checks on prospective subscribers and
audits searches to make sure people use its tools for legitimate
purposes, Asher said. Spying on ex-spouses isn’t allowed.  “I am more restrictive than the law is,” he said. “Make
that ‘much more restrictive.’”  Child Pornography  When used by law enforcement, the system can often detect
who has been viewing, distributing and creating child
pornography and where they live, according to Asher.  It looks for the worst offenders: those with the largest
cache of images, or with online manuals on how to have sex with
infants, or with fresh videos of children being raped, or with
youngsters living near or in the home. It knows who distributes
the material.  After getting evidence for a search warrant, officers can
slip a TLO disk into a suspect’s home computer and tell
immediately whether and what child pornography is there. It
would otherwise take six to 12 months to send the hard drive to
a lab and get results, said Greg Schiller, a Palm Beach County,
Florida, prosecutor who works full time at TLO’s offices.  “We leave the house with the images and the bad guy in
hand 95 percent of the time,” Schiller said.  Investigators can “monitor the Internet activity” of
suspects, Asher said, declining to give specifics he said might
compromise security.  Net-Use Monitoring?  Asked whether the commercial version allows TLO’s private
customers to monitor the Internet activity of third parties,
Asher paused.  “That leaves a bad taste in my mouth to think of it that
way,” he said.  But could it?  “There is no way that we would use that tool for a
commercial purpose,” he said.  Since the Matrix controversy, the privacy debate has
refocused on questions such as whether retailers and marketers
should be free to track Internet shopping.  That isn’t what TLO does, so Asher and Barnett aren’t
especially concerned about legislation to regulate it, they
said.  If Asher is well-known to some privacy advocates, TLO
isn’t. Calabrese of the ACLU and John Verdi, senior counsel to
the  Electronic Privacy Information Center  in Washington, said
they don’t know about the new product and couldn’t discuss it.  Data-Based Anxiety  “Many folks would look at a huge data base and the nature
of intelligence gathering and would be uncomfortable that this
sort of information is being collected and retained without
their knowledge,” Verdi said.  After leaving Seisint and while still bound by the non-
compete agreement, Asher spent his time and wealth caring for
his sister and seeking a cure for her cancer, multiple myeloma.
She lived five years longer than her initial prognosis of 18
months. Asher’s  creative ideas  helped extend her life, said Les
Wold of the Mayo Clinic Health System, one of her doctors.  When Sari Asher Zalcberg died in October 2007, Asher
considered buying a 300-foot yacht and moving to the South
Pacific, he said. He reconsidered.  “I thought about the years when I was not productive, and
they were not happy years,” Asher said. “I thought about how I
would feel if there was a terrorist attack and I wasn’t in the
game.”  He realized, he said, that if he didn’t go back to work,
“I would die a very unhappy old man.”  That January, he started setting up TLO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ann Woolner  in Atlanta at 
 awooolner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 