-- 
Ex-Investment Adviser, Filmmaker Charged in Trading Scheme

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-09-15T21:11:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/ex-investment-adviser-film-producer-charged-in-trading-scheme.html
A former  investment adviser  and an
independent film producer were accused by federal prosecutors in
New York of taking part in a $2.6 million insider-trading scheme
involving drug-company takeovers.  In his role at a consulting firm, Scott Allen, 45, of
Atlanta, learned inside information about the April 2008
acquisition of Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. by Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. and about the September 2009 purchase of
Sepracor Inc. by Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., according to a
criminal complaint unsealed today in Manhattan federal court.  Before the deals were announced, Allen disclosed the
information to John Bennett, a producer and a longtime friend,
the U.S. said. Bennett, 48, of Norwalk,  Connecticut , reaped
$1.1 million in profits trading on the information, the U.S.
said. Allen and an unidentified person who is cooperating with
the U.S. made $2.6 million, according to prosecutors.  “Scott Allen and John Bennett were old friends who chose
to profit from that friendship by breaking the law,”  Manhattan 
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement today.  Bennett, who worked for Merrill Lynch from 2005 to 2007,
has acted in several films, including the 1990 courtroom drama
“Presumed Innocent,” according to the website IMDb.com. He
cofounded Bennett Robbins Productions in 2008, according to the
company’s website.  20 Years  The men are each charged with one count of conspiracy to
commit  securities fraud  and two counts of securities fraud. If
convicted, they face as long as 20 years in prison on each count
of securities fraud and fines of as much as $5 million,
prosecutors said.  Allen and Bennett surrendered to agents of the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  this morning, said  Jim Margolin , a
spokesman for the FBI’s New York office. Both men appeared
before federal magistrate judges today -- Allen in Atlanta and
Bennett in Manhattan -- and were released on $500,000 unsecured
bonds.  Henry Mazurek , a lawyer for Bennett, declined to comment on
the charges. Brian McEvoy, a lawyer for Allen, said his client
isn’t guilty.  According to the complaints filed by prosecutors and the
SEC, FBI agents traced the activities of Bennett and Allen as
they met in Manhattan hotels, shared sushi lunches at the Time
Warner Center and held sidewalk rendezvous.  Cash Withdrawals  Bennett, who worked near Manhattan’s Columbus Circle, met
with Allen near his office at Rockefeller Center, with federal
agents trailing them and confirming their meetings through bank
ATM cash withdrawals and Metrocard subway swipes.  The SEC says that Allen received a benefit for giving out
the tips, including money from Bennett. From April 2008 to
August 2010, Bennett made at least 27 cash withdrawals of
between $1,500 and $8,000, for a total of more than $150,000.  The withdrawals were structured under the $10,000 threshold
to avoid triggering the filing of a currency transaction report.
The SEC said 25 of the withdrawals were between $5,000 and
$8,000.  The case is U.S. v. Allen, 11-MAG-2361, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 