-- 
Ex-TSMC Manager Karunatilaka Gets 18-Month in Prison for Insider Trading

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-15T23:05:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/ex-tsmc-manager-karunatilaka-gets-18-month-prison-sentence-1-.html
A former Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. manager was sentenced to 18 months in prison
for his part in an  insider-trading  scheme involving  Primary
Global Research LLC .  Manosha Karunatilaka, of Marlborough,  Massachusetts , who
worked as an account manager for Taiwan Semiconductor, pleaded
guilty in May to accepting about $35,000 to pass material,
nonpublic information about the company’s orders while also
working as a consultant for Primary Global.  His lawyer, Brad Bailey, had asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan for a one-year sentence, with six months to
be served in prison and six months of home confinement.  “I want to say how sorry I am for my conduct,”
Karunatilaka, 37, told Rakoff. “I am very sorry for my
actions.”  An analyst at an unidentified New York-based hedge fund,
which used Primary Global’s services, spoke to Karunatilaka
frequently from 2008 to 2010, prosecutors said in court papers.
In May 2009, acting on a recommendation from Karunatilaka to bet
that Taiwan Semiconductor shares would fall, the fund made a
profit of about $1.7 million, the U.S. said.  Tips Passed  While Bailey had argued that his client had only earned
$35,000 for the tips he passed and shouldn’t be held
responsible for the $1.7 million in profits a fund earned as a
result of the tips his client passed. Rakoff said he didn’t
agree.  “For tens of thousands of dollars, he cheated the system
and provided sophisticated stock traders with an unfair
advantage over the average investor,”  Manhattan  assistant U.S.
attorneys Antonia Apps and  David Leibowitz  said in the papers.  While Karunatilaka cooperated with the U.S. and accepted
responsibility for his crimes, prosecutors said he deserved a
prison term ranging from 37 to 46 months “to deter Karunatilaka
and other corporate employees from engaging in insider
trading.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 