-- 
Freeze on Accused Money Manager’s Ex-Wife Dismissed

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-09-15T16:52:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/ex-wife-of-accused-money-manager-walsh-wins-dismissal-of-u-s-asset-freeze.html
The former wife of Stephen Walsh,
the WG Trading Co. money manager indicted two years ago on
charges of conspiring to defraud investors of $554 million, won
dismissal of a U.S. freeze on her assets.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York today threw out the
decision by a district court judge in  Manhattan  to grant
preliminary injunctions to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission, which
placed a hold on most of Janet Schaberg’s assets.  Schaberg appealed the lower-court ruling, and the New York
state Court of Appeals, in response to questions from the
federal appeals judges, determined that fraud proceeds can be
deemed marital property and may be “fair consideration” paid
by a spouse under state law.  “Although that court’s answers do not definitely resolve
whether Schaberg’s assets will prove subject to disgorgement,
they do resolve this appeal,” the U.S. appeals panel wrote in
today’s decision. The judges sent the ruling back to the
district court to decide whether any of the assets can be
restrained.  A July 2009 indictment accused Walsh and fellow WG Trading
manager  Paul Greenwood  of conspiring to defraud investors in a
scheme that lasted from 1996 until the pair was arrested in
February 2009.  Guilty Plea  Greenwood pleaded guilty to charges including conspiracy
and securities fraud in July 2010 and is cooperating with
prosecutors in their case against Walsh, who has pleaded not
guilty. No trial date has been set.  Schaberg was married to Walsh for more than two decades
until the pair separated in 2004, according to today’s ruling.
Walsh agreed to pay Schaberg $12.5 million in biannual
installments through 2020 and allow her to keep about $5 million
held in checking accounts.  Schaberg, who remarried in 2008 and adopted her current
name, gave up her interest in a house in  Port Washington ,  New
York , while taking sole ownership of condominiums in  New York
City  and  Florida , the U.S. appeals panel said.  The appeal is Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
Walsh, 09-cv-3742, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
(New York). The civil case is Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Walsh, 09-cv-1749, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v.
Greenwood, 09-cr-722, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  