-- 
Express Scripts Sues Walgreen in Feud for Medicare Patients

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-09-15T20:05:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/express-scripts-sues-walgreen-in-dispute-over-medicare-drug-plan.html
Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  sued  Walgreen
Co. (WAG)  for what it called a “campaign to disparage” the pharmacy-
benefits manager in an illegal attempt to wrest away customers.  Walgreen, the biggest U.S. drugstore chain, is using false
advertising to encourage Medicare patients to leave Express
Scripts in violation of a contract that expires Dec. 31, St.
Louis-based Express Scripts said in a Sept. 7 complaint filed in
federal court in  Chicago . Express Scripts said it will suffer
“irreparable damage” unless the court issues an injunction
stopping Walgreen’s action.  Walgreen, of Deerfield,  Illinois , said in June that it
won’t participate in Express Scripts’ pharmacy network next year
because negotiations had collapsed on renewing the contract
worth more than $5 billion in annual drug sales. A  website 
sponsored by Walgreen says Medicare recipients who remain with
Express Scripts won’t be able to fill Part D prescriptions after
Dec. 31.  “This is false and highly misleading because nothing will
prohibit Walgreen from continuing to fill valid prescriptions
for such members after Dec. 31, 2011, even if Walgreen is not a
part of Express Scripts’ pharmacy network,” Express Scripts
said in the complaint.  “Walgreen has crossed a line and is not negotiating in
good faith,” Express Scripts spokesman  Brian Henry  said
yesterday in an e-mail. “We will not let this stand.”  Request Granted  U.S. District Judge Marvin E. Aspen, at a hearing today in
Chicago federal court, conditionally granted a request by
Walgreen to suspend the proceedings while the combatants take
their dispute to arbitration. Walgreen said in a Sept. 12 motion
that its contract with Express Scripts requires arbitration for
such claims.  “It is important to inform our patients and the public how
this may impact their ability to fill prescriptions at Walgreen
next year if Express Scripts serves as the pharmacy-benefit
manager for their particular health care plans, and we regret
that Express Scripts has resorted to litigation in an effort to
stop us,” Michael Polzin, a spokesman for Walgreen, said
yesterday in an e-mail. The company will fight the lawsuit, he
said.  Appearing today,  Express Scripts  lawyer James Monafo
pressed for a hearing on his client’s bid to block the drugstore
chain from engaging in its advertising campaign. Walgreen
attorney Peter Bensinger countered that arbitration is the
proper forum for the dispute.  Two-Week Deadline  Aspen ordered the companies to bring the issue to an
arbitrator’s attention “promptly,” telling their lawyers that
if they fail to do so within two weeks, he will refer Express
Scripts’ injunction request to a federal magistrate.  Express Scripts declined $1.29, or 3 percent, to $41.50 at
4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Walgreen
gained 65 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $37.30 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  Pharmacy benefits managers act as middlemen among
drugmakers, pharmacies and health-plan sponsors to negotiate
prices and manage the use of drugs by patients. Express Scripts
agreed in July to buy rival  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  to
create the biggest pharmacy benefits manager in the U.S. The
deal requires clearance from antitrust regulators.  The case is Express Scripts Inc. v. Walgreen Co., 11-
cv-06223, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  