-- 
Ezz Steel Falls to Lowest Since April After License Withdrawal

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-09-15T13:39:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/ezz-steel-falls-to-lowest-since-april-after-license-withdrawal.html
Ezz Steel (ESRS)  tumbled to the lowest in
five months in Cairo trading after a court withdrew production
licenses from the company and sentenced its former chairman to
10 years in prison.  The shares slumped 5.1 percent to 7.81 Egyptian pounds, the
lowest since April 27, at the 2:30 p.m. close. They plunged as
much as 10 percent before being suspended.  Egypt ’s bourse
calculates closing prices based on the weighted average price of
the daily trades. The court didn’t specify which licenses it
ordered to be withdrawn from the nation’s biggest steel
producer.  Omar Taha, a research analyst who covers Ezz Steel at
Cairo-based investment bank Beltone Financial, said the licenses
in question are for the company’s two planned direct-reduced-
iron plants. The first plant, which was scheduled to begin
production in the second quarter of 2012, would produce iron
from iron-ore instead of scrap metal.  “The ruling doesn’t have an effect on Ezz’s current
production,” said Omar Taha, research analyst at Cairo-based
Beltone Securities Brokerage. “But we expect future growth to
be impacted.”  Former Chairman Ahmed Ezz and former Trade Minister Rachid
Mohamed Rachid were sentenced for irregularities in awarding
steel licenses to Ezz Steel. Rachid was sentenced to 15 years.
The defendants have the right to appeal.  Ezz Steel said in January, before the start of a popular
uprising that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak , it planned to
complete its first DRI plant, a $400 million investment, by the
end of the year. The company’s profit margin from iron ore-based
production would be about 19 percent, compared with 4 percent
from scrap metal-based products, Kamel Galal, head of  investor
relations , said at the time.  Galal didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone seeking
comments today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  