-- 
Facebook May Help Online Luxury-Goods Sales Grow 20% Annually

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-09-15T09:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/facebook-may-help-online-luxury-goods-sales-grow-20-annually.html
Online sales of  luxury goods  may
climb 20 percent a year by 2015 as producers build networks of
potential customers on social media websites such as
Facebook.com, according to a study published today.  Revenue from fashion, jewelry and other luxury products is
likely to reach 11 billion euros ($15 billion) in four years,
the report from Italian luxury trade group Altagamma shows.  “The explosion of social media and the increasing
investments in the online channel by luxury companies has
reinforced and enlarged the community of those who explore,
comment upon and eventually purchase luxury goods,” Milan-based
Altagamma said in a statement.  Luxury companies are more than doubling their “friends”
on Facebook annually in recognition of the link between online
and offline purchases, according to the report. At least half of
consumers in  Europe , the U.S. and China form an opinion or seek
information online before buying in a store, while most online
luxury sales are preceded by a boutique visit, Altagamma said.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s largest luxury goods maker,
gets “the most reach and most response” from digital
initiatives compared with other media, Burberry Chief Financial
Officer Stacey Cartwright told analysts on July 13.  To promote the Burberry Body fragrance, which hit shelves
this month, the London-based company offered exclusive samples
to its nearly 7 million Facebook fans. It received more than
225,000 requests in little more than a week.  The Internet plays a key role in increasing the hype around
luxury brands and their products, Altagamma said.  Fashion Blogs  The web’s influence on perceptions of luxury goods is
strongest in  China , where fashion blogs are the source of
opinion for 58 percent of consumers, compared with 27 percent of
their counterparts in Europe and the U.S., the report said.  The Asian country also has a higher penetration of online
purchasing. Seventy-eight percent of Chinese buy luxury goods
online, compared with 56 percent of Europeans and 46 percent of
Americans, “mainly because they wish to avoid interactions with
sales personnel or their insistence,” Altagamma said.  The study included surveys of 187 companies with total
revenue of 60 billion euros ($82.1 billion), interviews with
1,500 consumers and analysis of 450 websites in seven countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 