-- 
Fed’s Tarullo Backs More Research Into Benefits of Large Firms

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-09-15T17:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/fed-s-tarullo-backs-more-research-into-benefits-of-large-firms.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said regulators need to increase research into the
benefits to society from the largest financial institutions,
including how efficiently such firms allocate capital.  “The relative dearth of empirical work on the nature of
economies of scale and scope in large financial firms hindered
the development and execution of optimal regulatory and
supervisory policies,” Tarullo said today in remarks prepared
for a speech at a Fed conference on regulation of systemic risk
in  Washington .  As part of the 2010 Dodd-Frank law overhauling financial
regulation, the Fed will regulate companies deemed systemically
important by a council of regulators. The council will decide
which firms have the potential to disrupt the financial system
in the event of their failure.  Tarullo, the Fed governor responsible for supervision and
regulation, outlined areas where further research would aid that
effort to regulate the biggest financial institutions. He said
that, for example, the low funding cost of big banks may result
from moral hazard rather than economic efficiency.  “If funding-cost advantages in fact derive from market
perceptions that a very large firm was too-big-to-fail, the
phenomenon is really one of competitive advantage grounded in
moral hazard, not one of true efficiencies,” he said.  Tarullo also said further research into scope-and-scale
would allow the central bank to better review proposed mergers
and acquisitions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Fed must
consider whether mergers increase systemic risk, he said.  “It clearly did not instruct us to reject an acquisition
simply because there would be any increase in such risks,”
Tarullo said. “Instead, it appears we have been instructed to
add any increased systemic risk to the list of adverse effects
that could result from the merger.”  “The more developed our knowledge about economies of scale
and scope in large financial conglomerates becomes, the more
nuanced an analysis of these effects we will be able to make,”
he said.  Tarullo did not comment on the  U.S. economy  or monetary
policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  