-- 
FIFA Rejects Bin Hammam Appeal Against Soccer Ban; He’ll Take Case to CAS

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-09-15T17:44:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/fifa-rejects-bin-hammam-appeal-against-soccer-ban-he-ll-take-case-to-cas.html
Mohamed  bin Hammam , who challenged
Sepp Blatter for the presidency of soccer’s governing body, lost
an appeal against his lifetime ban from the sport, FIFA said
today. He’ll now appeal to sport’s top court, his lawyer said.  The Qatari, who was head of the Asian soccer confederation,
was banned in July after being found guilty of buying votes for
the FIFA leadership contest against Blatter. Bin Hammam said the
ban was politically motivated and that he had the resources to
fight for years to clear his name.  “The appeal made by Mohammed bin Hammam has been rejected
and the decision of the FIFA Ethics Committee confirmed,” FIFA
said in an e-mailed statement. “The sanction of being banned
from taking part in any kind of football-related activity
(administrative, sports or any other) at national and
international level for life has therefore been maintained.”  The Zurich-based body’s three-member appeal panel was led
by Ecuadorian Francisco Acosta and included officials from
Argentina and  Senegal .  FIFA’s decision to expel Bin Hammam came after an
investigation led by former Federal Bureau of Investigation
director  Louis Freeh  into claims he offered Caribbean soccer
officials envelopes containing $40,000 while campaigning in the
region. FIFA vice president  Jack Warner , who arranged Bin
Hammam’s visit to the Caribbean, was also suspended and quit the
sport before the end of Freeh’s inquiry. He denied wrongdoing.  Bin Hammam had said he didn’t expect FIFA to accept his
appeal, accusing the organization of being biased against him,
and said he would take the case to the Court of Arbitration for
Sport. His lawyer Eugene Gulland of Covington & Burling LLP
confirmed the plan today.  ‘Not Optimistic’  “Mr. Bin Hammam has already gone on record stating that he
was not optimistic of justice prevailing from the FIFA appeals
process but this was a protocol to enable him to obtain access
to CAS,” Gulland said in a statement. “History seems to bear
him out as the FIFA appeals process has rarely interfered with
the decisions of its football colleagues in other FIFA internal
panels.”  The papers will be lodged with the Lausanne, Switzerland-
based court once Bin Hammam receives a full written statement
from FIFA explaining its latest decision, Gulland added.  “I will continue my battle until I prove my innocence and
that my suspension was a political decision and an absolute
abuse of power to deprive me of my right to contest for FIFA
presidency,” Bin Hammam wrote on his personal blog last month.  Bin Hammam’s legal team has also lodged a separate action
with CAS that challenges FIFA’s right to designate  China ’s
Zhang Jilong as “acting president” of the Asian Football
Confederation and appoint him to sit on the FIFA Executive
Committee, Gulland said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  