-- 
Finland Won’t Plug 2012 Deficit Amid Crisis, Handelsbanken Says

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-09-15T07:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/finland-won-t-plug-2012-deficit-amid-crisis-handelsbanken-says.html
Finland  will fail to bolster
revenue and cut spending enough to reach a surplus next year as
the European debt crisis weighs on growth,  Svenska Handelsbanken
AB (SHBA)  said.  Finland will have a budget deficit of 0.6 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012, versus the 1.1 percent surplus
forecast on May 12, Handelsbanken economists Tiina Helenius and
Tuulia Asplund wrote in an e-mailed report out of Helsinki.  Finland’s economic growth is slowing faster than earlier
forecast as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens, Handelsbanken and
Tapiola Bank both said in reports today. Next year’s growth for
the Nordic country will slow to 1.8 percent, Handelsbanken said,
while Tapiola forecasts 1 percent expansion. GDP will rise 3
percent this year, Handelsbanken said.  “The U.S. and the euro area may be heading for a
recession, which would inevitably cause GDP to contract in
Finland,” Tapiola Chief Economist Jari Jaervinen said. Exports
account for about 40 percent of the northernmost euro member’s
economy.  The government targets a balanced budget by 2015 and plans
1.1 billion euros ($1.5 billion) of spending cuts and 1.1
billion euros of tax increases next year to curtail the deficit
to 7.1 billion euros, Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen ’s cabinet
said yesterday.  “Timing of the tightening may be disadvantageous if it
worsens a weakening economy, even though its size isn’t
dramatic,” Helenius said. “Finland doesn’t face any immediate
pressure from the markets to cut the deficit similar to the
pressure on many other highly-indebted euro countries.”  Ten-year Finnish bond yields fell to a euro-era record of
2.20 percent this week as investors sought safer securities. The
AAA rated country is funding its third consecutive budget
shortfall with borrowing, raising 3 billion euros in a sale of
five-year debt on Sept. 1. Finnish credit-default swaps, which
measure the cost of insuring against default, trade at the
lowest rate in the euro area, signaling investors perceive the
nation’s debt to be the least risky in the 17-nation bloc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  