-- 
Flawed Air Force ICBM Count Shows Need for Better Books: GAO

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-09-15T12:36:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/flawed-air-force-icbm-count-shows-need-for-better-books-gao-1-.html
 The U.S.  Air Force ’s property
accounting system overstates by 105 the number of assembled
nuclear missiles in service, according to congressional
investigators and Air Force documents.  The system doesn’t distinguish between a complete  Minuteman
III , a partially assembled intercontinental ballistic missile or
a spare stage-one missile motor, said an Air Force “Financial
Improvement Plan” evaluated by the Government Accountability
Office.  The Air Force system indicates 555 Minuteman IIIs; the
actual number is 450. The additional 105 are disassembled one-
stage boosters that could be assembled into complete missiles,
according Air Force records.  The discrepancy doesn’t mean a loss of operational control
or not knowing the location of armed nuclear weapons, the
service’s top spokesman, Brigadier General Les Kodlick said.  Still, the Air Force acknowledges the deficiency “must be
corrected before military equipment can be ready for audit,”
GAO said in a report scheduled for release today. The Air Force
says it’s fixing the system so that it automatically
distinguishes and separately notes disassembled missiles,
according to GAO.  There are “serious failings of the Department of Defense’s
current accounting and finance systems,” said Senator Tom Carper of  Delaware , the Democratic chairman of the Homeland
Security Committee financial management panel, in a statement to
Bloomberg News.  ‘Deeply Troubling’  “If the Air Force accounting and inventory systems can’t
accurately count the number of intercontinental ballistic
missiles in its possession, it’s fair to question whether the
Air Force and other military services can count other, more
common and more numerous assets like tanks, parts and rifles,”
Carper said. “This is deeply troubling.”  Carper is convening a hearing today to examine the
Pentagon’s progress in meeting a congressional mandate to get
its books into shape for auditing by 2017 -- an issue that’s
been unresolved for at least 15 years.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , asked yesterday about the
report, said 2017 wasn’t fast enough.  “As we go through these budget reductions, I think we’ve
got to be able to have auditing,” he said. “I have got to be
able to say to the American people that we are accountable for
their tax dollars, and that means that we have to have the
ability to audit our books.”  ‘Aggressive’ Management Needed  Senate panel member  Tom Coburn , a Republican from  Oklahoma ,
said in a e-mail he was pleased with Panetta’s stance. “These
reports highlight the need for an aggressive chief management
officer,” he said.  The GAO since 1995 has flagged the Pentagon’s financial
management system “because of its inability to ensure
accountability,” Coburn said.  Air Force spokesman Kodlick, in an e-mail statement, said
service managers are “closely engaged with the GAO and defense
officials as we work to fully define the specialized accounting
rules that will be applied to various weapons systems.”  “Even though financial accounting rules are under
discussion, the Air Force maintains 100 percent operational
accountability and control for ICBMs and other vital military
equipment,” Kodlick said. “This has been a major area of focus
for Air Force leaders for the last several years.”  Nuclear Errors  The Air Force is especially sensitive to nuclear weapons
issues. Then-Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  in June 2008 fired
the Air Force secretary and its top general over real and
perceived lapses in nuclear security. A B-52 bomber in 2007 flew
across the U.S. carrying six cruise missiles mistakenly armed
with nuclear warheads, and parts that arm nuclear explosives
were erroneously shipped to  Taiwan .  The GAO reports there has been progress toward setting the
basic ground-rules and additional steps the services must follow
to prepare for 2017 audits.  Pentagon Comptroller Robert Hale, for example, issued in
May 2010 a standard “Financial Improvement and Audit
Readiness” plan that “provides a reasonable methodology” for
organizations to follow when preparing their individual plans.  Still, the GAO examined Navy Civilian Pay and Air Force
Military Equipment plans that followed the guidance and found
they contained “unsupportable conclusions.”  The Air Force system also “is not yet able to properly
count its many assets and keep track of its inventory,”
including Minuteman IIIs, GAO said. “Air Force officials
indicated they didn’t expect to complete this corrective action
until” Sept. 30, 2012, GAO said.  Carper called the ICBM flaw “alarming” because “this
could affect the Air Force’s ability to properly plan for
maintenance, and purchase of spare parts in a timely and cost-
effective manner.”  ICBM totals vary up to a maximum of 450 because missiles
are rotated through their maintenance cycles, according to the
Air Force.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  