-- 
China’s August Foreign Direct Investment Rises 11.1% on Year, MOFCOM Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-15T16:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/foreign-direct-investment-in-china-rises-11-1-in-august-to-8-45-billion.html
Foreign direct investment in 
China climbed 11.1 percent in August from a year earlier as 
the nation’s growth encourages companies from  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  
to Caterpillar Inc. to expand.  Investment from overseas totaled $8.45 billion last month,
after expanding 19.8 percent in July, the Ministry of Commerce
said in a statement on its  website  yesterday. For the first
eight months, investment rose 17.7 percent to $77.63 billion.  Businesses are turning to China to bolster sales as rising
unemployment and government indebtedness damp confidence in
developed nations. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on Sept. 14 the
country will continue opening its economy to investors and
encourage consumption to drive growth.  China’s economy  grew 9.5
percent in the second quarter, from a year earlier.  “China remains the only bright spot amid the global
financial turmoil,”  Li Huiyong , an economist with Shanghai-
based SWS Research Co., said before the announcement yesterday.
“Investment returns in China remain high and local authorities
are keen to attract funds for new businesses,” he said.  China overtook the U.S. to become the world’s biggest auto
market in 2009. Companies including Kia Motors Corp., VW, and
Peugeot SA are introducing new models and revamping older ones
to lure buyers, Klaus Paur, Shanghai-based managing director at
Synovate Motoresearch said on Sept. 9.  Adding Factories  VW, the first overseas carmaker to enter China three
decades ago, needs more factories in the country to match market
growth, Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said this
week. The Wolfsburg, Germany-based company opened its first
engine reprocessing plant in China last month and said in
November it plans to invest 10.6 billion euros ($14.6 billion)
through its two auto manufacturing joint ventures in the country
by 2015.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction and
mining equipment, said last month it plans to open a new
manufacturing facility in eastern Jiangsu province to produce
undercarriage components and track assemblies used on its
hydraulic excavators.  Investment in China is climbing even as U.S. and European
companies complain of discrimination. The European Union Chamber
of Commerce in China said last week that laws and regulations
are hindering its members from participating in the country’s
growth.  While  China  has made progress in removing barriers to
market access, hurdles remain, the Chamber said in a report
published Sept. 8. Carmakers are required to take a Chinese
partner and are limited to a 50 percent stake in their ventures,
while telecommunication companies are effectively shut out from
the world’s biggest mobile phone market, it said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  