-- 
Freeport Assesses Impact on Production at Grasberg Copper Mine Amid Strike

-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 
2011-09-15T16:29:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/freeport-weighs-grasberg-strike-impact-on-output-as-peru-action-persists.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) 
is assessing the impact on production and deliveries at its
Grasberg copper and gold mine in  Indonesia  after the union said
70 percent of workers started a one-month strike last night.  About 8,000 employees at Grasberg, excluding workers from
contractors, joined the strike that started at midnight to
demand wage increases, Juli Parorrongan, a labor union
spokesman, said today. Freeport miners are also striking in Peru
at the company’s  Sociedad Minera Cerro Verde SAA (CVERDEC1)  unit, where
copper production has not been “materially impacted,” it said.  “We are disappointed that union workers decided to
implement an illegal work stoppage,” said Ramdani Sirait, a PT
Freeport Indonesia spokesman, in a statement. “The company has
negotiated in a diligent good-faith manner with union
representatives to reach a mutually satisfactory agreement.”  Grasberg has the world’s largest recoverable reserves of
copper and the biggest single gold reserve, according to the
Freeport website. Workers in  Peru ,  Chile ,  Bolivia  and Indonesia
have gone on strike at copper, gold and zinc mines this year,
seeking improved conditions and a bigger slice of record profits
after metal prices more than doubled since the end of 2008.  Copper for three-month delivery advanced as much as 1.8
percent to $8,787 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange
today and traded at $8,715 a ton at 5:23 p.m. local time.  Strikes at Grasberg in Papua province 1,940 miles (3,120
kilometers) east of Jakarta, and in Peru may widen a global
shortage of copper estimated at 670,000 metric tons this year by
 Barclays Capital  and boost prices of the metal.  Mining ‘Inactive’  Concentrate shipments from Amamapare port in Papua have
been halted since 5 a.m. local time, said Virgo Solossa, head of
organizational affairs at Freeport Indonesia’s labor union.  “The last deliveries left the port at 11 p.m. and this
morning there are three or four vessels that were unable to
load,” he said. “I could say that all mining-related
activities at Grasberg are inactive at the moment.”  Freeport may complete an assessment on the impact of the
strike as early as tomorrow, company spokesman Sirait said by
phone, without elaborating.  In Peru, Freeport miners will continue their strike after
wage talks ended in disagreement, Mining Federation General
Secretary  Luis Castillo  said by phone. Workers and officials at
Cerro Verde, Peru’s third-largest copper producer, are scheduled
to resume government-brokered talks today, he said. About 1,200
workers had walked off their jobs, he said.  ‘Better Welfare’  Copper and molybdenum concentrate output from the unit has
not been “materially affected” by the strike, according to an
e-mailed statement from spokesman  Eric Kinneberg .  In Indonesia, more workers supported the strike at the
Grasberg mine including non-union members, Parorrongan said.  “Workers put down their tools as per midnight and have
moved down from mining sites since 6.30 a.m.,” he said today by
telephone from Timika, the closest town to Grasberg. “This is
purely an act for a better welfare.”  The company and labor union at Grasberg ended 38 days of
talks over 2011-2013 contract terms on Aug. 26 after failing to
agree on wages. Negotiations started after the workers walked
off their jobs for eight days in July.  Cerro Verde  miners held a
48-hour work stoppage last week.  Grasberg workers expect wages to increase to between $17.50
and $43 an hour from $1.50 to $3.50, said Solossa yesterday. The
union cut their expectations from $35 to $200 an hour initially,
he said Aug. 26. Freeport offered a compensation package that
includes an increase in basic wages for non-staff employees of
22 percent over a two-year period, Sirait said on Sept. 5.  Copper production at the mine fell to 1.22 billion pounds
(553.4 million kilograms) last year from 1.41 billion pounds in
2009, according to the website. Gold output declined to 1.79
million ounces from 2.57 million ounces.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 