-- 
Fundtech Surges on Deal as Mellanox Declines: Israel Overnight

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-09-15T21:54:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/fundtech-surges-on-deal-as-mellanox-declines-israel-overnight.html
Fundtech Ltd. (FNDT) , the Israeli provider
of banking software for Bank of America Corp. and HSBC Holdings
Plc, surged by a record after GTCR Golder Rauner LLC offered to
buy the company for a 33 percent premium.  Shares of the Herzliya, Israel-based company jumped 32
percent to $23.18 on the  Nasdaq  Stock Market yesterday, the most
since the company’s initial public offering in March 1998.
Fundtech led gains on the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the
largest Israeli companies traded in  New York , which increased 1
percent to 83.30. Alon Holdings Blue Square Israel Ltd. jumped
17 percent.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  retreated 2.4 percent.  GTCR, a Chicago-based private-equity firm, will pay $23.33
in cash for Fundtech shares, higher than the $17.56 closing
price on Sept. 14, and will combine the company with BankServ,
which operates in the same sector. Concern that  S1 Corp. (SONE)  will
scrap its $700 million deal to buy Fundtech had pushed the
company’s shares to the lowest level in nine months.  “It looks like they found their true partner,” said
Alfredo Scialabba, an analyst and trader at GFI Special
Situations Group in New York. “It is unlikely that S1 will come
back with a match of GTCR’s proposal or a topping bid.”  Fundtech, which is among 57 Israeli companies traded on the
Nasdaq, the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China , is
the second to receive a purchase proposal this year.  Ness
Technologies Inc. (NSTC) , the information technology-services provider,
said on Aug. 30 that its board approved the sale of the company
to Citi Venture Capital International for $7.75 a share.  ‘Superior’  ACI Worldwide Inc. (ACIW) , based in New York, offered to buy
Norcross, Georgia-based S1 for $9.50 a share on July 26, casting
doubt on S1’s plans to buy Fundtech, announced a month earlier.  Fundtech notified S1 about its intention to terminate the
merger agreement, and that it has five business days to make a
counter proposal, the company said in a statement distributed by
Business Wire yesterday.  GTCR’s offer is “superior” to the S1 proposal, Fundtech
said. The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter
of 2011 if approved by shareholders. The combined company would
be headquartered in Jersey City,  New Jersey , take the name
Fundtech Inc. and will be headed by the current Chief Executive
Officer Reuven Ben Menachem.  The company is the biggest gainer on the Bloomberg Israel-
US 25 Index this year, rising 44 percent.  Transaction Fees  Fundtech will continue to thrive as banks increasingly
focus on earning fees from transactions as opposed to lending,
Ben Menachem said in an interview on Aug. 21. Fundtech is
benefiting from sales of software to banks seeking to bolster
fees on electronic payments, transfers and other transactions as
lending becomes less profitable, he said.  Fundtech shares in  Tel Aviv  gained 28 percent to 84.38
shekels, or the equivalent of $23. Clal Industries & Investments
Ltd., Israeli billionaire Nochi Dankner’s investment company
that owns a 58.6 percent stake in Fundtech, climbed 9.5 percent
to 15.50 shekels in Tel Aviv.  The shekel gained 1.3 percent to 3.6638 per  U.S. dollar 
yesterday, the biggest gain since May 10, 2010. The currency has
strengthened 1.1 percent in the last five days, the best
performer among 10 emerging markets in  Europe , the  Middle East 
and  Africa  tracked by Bloomberg.  Consumer prices rose more than forecast in August as home
rental costs climbed, government-regulated electricity fees
increased and the weakening of the shekel helped push up import
and travel prices.  Inflation  Consumer prices advanced 0.5 percent from July, the Central
Bureau of Statistics in  Jerusalem  said yesterday. The median
estimate in a survey of 14 economists by Bloomberg was 0.3
percent. The annual inflation rate was 3.4 percent, the same as
in the previous month.  Electricity prices were raised in mid-August after attacks
on the gas pipeline from  Egypt  cut off supply, forcing the use
of other fuels and making power production more expensive.
Diplomatic tensions with Egypt and  Turkey  and the prospect of
the Palestinian application for United Nations membership helped
depreciate the shekel, which slid about 4 percent in August, the
most since January.  Israel ’s TA-25 Index gained 2 percent to 1,056.83
yesterday, trimming the slump for the year to 20 percent.  Israel’s stock market was upgraded to developed market
status by MSCI Inc. in May 2010, the same month the 63-year-old
country was accepted to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Mellanox, the 12-year-old Israeli adapter maker part-owned
by Oracle Corp., dropped for the first time in four days,
retreating 2.4 percent to $34.28. The Tel Aviv shares gained 7.1
percent to 133 shekels, or the equivalent of $36.26.  Alon Surges  Alon Holdings, the nation’s second-largest food retailer,
surged to $5.54 from $4.75. The stock has jumped 22 percent in
two days after dropping 33 percent during the seven sessions
ended Sept. 13 as protests in Israel fueled speculation the
government will take measures that will hurt the company’s
profit. The Tel Aviv shares climbed 0.2 percent to 18.04
shekels, or the equivalent of $4.93.  Prolor Biotech Inc. (PBTH) , the Ness Ziona-based drugmaker whose
biggest shareholder is billionaire Phillip Frost, rose 2.4
percent to $4.30. The Tel Aviv shares gained 2.3 percent to
15.77 shekels, or the equivalent of $4.30.  The company reported positive results from a comparative
study of its version of the hemophilia drug, which could be used
for treatment of acute bleeding episodes and as therapy for
prevention of bleeding, according to a statement distributed by
PR Newswire yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  