-- 
Netherlands Gas Trade Beats Peers as LNG Arrives: Energy Markets

-- B y   B e n   F a r e y
-- 
2011-09-15T11:03:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/gas-trading-in-netherlands-outpaces-peers-as-lng-arrives-energy-markets.html
The Netherlands’ natural-gas market
is growing faster than its peers, fending off competition from
 Germany  to be mainland  Europe ’s largest as the country starts
importing liquefied fuel for the first time.  Volumes at the Title Transfer Facility, the Dutch hub,
jumped 42 percent from a year earlier in the first half of 2011,
compared with a 21 percent increase in Germany and 9 percent in
the U.K., Europe’s biggest market, data from Kingston Energy
Consulting Ltd. show. The Netherlands handled more than 13 times
as much month-ahead gas as Germany on Sept. 13, according to
London Energy Brokers’ Association data.  European Union efforts to deregulate energy markets and
encourage new pipelines between countries coupled with a glut
that has driven buyers to favor spot markets instead of costlier
oil-based contracts is boosting gas trading. The Netherlands has
further enhanced its status as a hub after importing its first
commercial liquefied natural gas cargo at Rotterdam’s new Gate
terminal on Sept. 1.  “Two years ago when the German market was kicking off, it
looked like the German hub was going to edge out” the
Netherlands, Nigel Harris, a founding partner of Kingston
Energy, said by telephone from Kingston,  England . “Now it seems
that isn’t going to happen and TTF has established itself as a
pool of liquidity for forward trading.”  Dutch Hub  The Dutch hub handled more than 3,000 terawatt-hours of gas
in the six months through June, according to Kingston Energy
data, which include all recorded trades from exchanges and
system operators as well as an estimate of the total volume of
broker and unrecorded one-to-one trades. That’s enough to meet
more than half the demand of the EU’s 27 member states.  Traders prefer the Netherlands because the more active
market makes it easier to hedge, or protect, their bets, Jonas Nihoej, a senior trader at KIH Energy Trading GmbH in  Prague ,
said in an interview. “It’s easy to get in and out of
positions.”  Trading hubs may cover an entire nation, such as the U.K.’s
National Balancing Point, or NBP, or specific pipeline
connections, such as  Belgium ’s Zeebrugge, where the fuel can be
bought and sold via brokers or exchanges. Europe’s markets
evolved during the past decade, following the U.K.’s debut in
1992.  Gate LNG  The Dutch hub was established in 2003 by Nederlandse
Gasunie NV, the state-owned gas transporter, and has pipeline
connections to  Russia  and  Norway  as well as markets in Germany,
 Switzerland ,  France ,  Italy , Belgium and the U.K. Gasunie started
the 12 billion cubic-meter-a-year Gate LNG terminal this year
together with Royal Vopak NV to import fuel from countries such
as Qatar, the world’s biggest LNG exporter.  Europe’s hubs are challenging the dominance of producers
such as Russia’s OAO Gazprom and Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL) , which
built export pipelines stretching from northern Russia to
western Europe starting in the 1960s to supply gas through
multiyear contracts negotiated directly with consumers. France,
Italy and  Austria  also have spot markets.  About 4,500 megawatt-hours of month-ahead gas was bought
and sold on the TTF on Sept. 13, compared with 340 megawatt-
hours for the similar contract on Germany’s NetConnect Germany
GmbH, or NCG, London Energy Brokers’ Association data show.  “German hubs are still taking off,” Nihoej said. Germany
uses more than twice as much gas as the Netherlands, he said.  Price Collapse  Day-ahead gas in the Netherlands dropped as low as 6.75
euros a megawatt-hour in October 2009 as the global financial
crisis sapped industrial demand. It was at 25.05 euros ($34.60)
yesterday, according to broker prices on Bloomberg. That’s about
$10.05 a million British thermal units.  EON AG, Germany’s largest utility, and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA,
Europe’s biggest gas-network operator, sought more flexible
terms from producers such as Gazprom during the past two years
as oil-linked contracts hurt revenue. EON said last month it may
cut as many as 11,000 jobs after posting its first quarterly
loss in 10 years.  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest utility, had
a loss in its “midstream” gas business in the first half
compared with a profit a year earlier.  “There’s been a surplus of gas at a time when markets have
been liberalizing and the conditions for accessing grids,
storage and customers have been improving,” Colin Lyle,
chairman of the gas committee at the European Federation of
Energy Traders, said in a phone interview from  London . “We can
expect continued growth in the traded gas markets across
Europe.”  ‘Extraordinary Growth’  Germany had 19 gas market areas in 2006, which were
consolidated into two main trading zones by 2009. NCG is the
most active. Its pipelines span 20,000 kilometers (12,400
miles), covering parts of central Germany and most of the south.
The Gaspool hub covers most of the north and east.  The “extraordinary” 80 percent growth of trading in
Germany last year has slowed as traders aren’t sure how the
country’s regulators will reshape the market, Harris said.  Germany has the capacity to store almost 10 times as much
as the TTF region, which includes  Denmark , data from Gas Storage
Europe, a Brussels-based industry association, show. The ability
to draw on inventories helps iron out price swings.  With Germany’s power market established as Europe’s
benchmark for electricity trading, it would be natural to trade
German power versus German gas in a “spark spread” transaction
and so avoid the TTF versus NCG price risk, Nihoej said.  The two German gas hubs will eventually merge into one, he
said. “In five to 10 years NCG will be more active than TTF,”
Nihoej said. “Then it will be NCG versus” the U.K.’s National
Balancing Point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in London at   bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  