-- 
Gasoline Exports to U.S. May Fall 5% as Peak Usage Period Ends

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-09-15T14:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/gasoline-exports-to-u-s-may-fall-5-as-peak-usage-period-ends.html
Gasoline shipments to the U.S. from
 Europe  may drop 5 percent over the next two weeks as the end of
the nation’s peak consumption period and rising stockpiles curb
imports.  A total of 19 tankers have been booked or are due to be
chartered for loading in the two-week period, according to the
median in a Bloomberg News survey of three shipbrokers, one ship
owner and two traders yesterday. That’s one less than a week
ago.  “There’s a significant drop in shipments compared to the
summer driving season,” said Ehsan Ul-Haq, senior market
consultant at KBC Energy Economics in Walton-on-Thames,  England .
“There’s enough gasoline in the U.S. and refinery margins in
the U.S., particularly in the Midwest, are high.”  Gasoline usage in the country tends to fall at the end of
the driving season between Memorial Day weekend at the end of
May and Labor Day in the first week of September.  U.S. producers of the automotive fuel who purchase crude
oil at prices related to West Texas Intermediate benefit from
cheaper raw-material prices than competitors in Europe. WTI is
trading at $24.96 a barrel less than  Brent crude , the grade
that’s used to settle about half the world’s physical oil
prices, according to the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  27 Tankers  There are 27 vessels likely to be available to carry trans-
Atlantic gasoline cargoes, the fewest since Aug. 17, the survey
showed.  U.S. gasoline stocks rose 1.9 million barrels to 210.8
million barrels last week as demand fell 1.2 percent to 8.85
million barrels a day, Energy Department figures showed
yesterday.  Of the 19 vessels, known in the industry as medium-range
tankers, 10 have already been booked and a further nine will
probably be hired. They will be able to carry about 6 million
barrels of gasoline. The 427,000 barrels-a-day rate is 50
percent of the 849,000 barrels the U.S. imported over the past
year, according to the department.  Daily rental income for tankers carrying gasoline across
the Atlantic Ocean came to $2,387 as of yesterday, according to
the  Baltic Exchange  in London. That’s 15 percent more than the
2011 low, reached Sept. 8.  The survey is based on so-called single-voyage, or spot,
charters and excludes loadings under longer-term contracts. It
assumes shipments to the U.S. East Coast from northwestern
Europe. Each tanker would normally haul about 37,000 tons of
cargo, or 315,000 barrels.  Charter rates on the route were at 126.04 Worldscale points
yesterday, according to the exchange. That’s down 4.9 percent
from the year’s first session on Jan. 4.  The points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or flat
rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net . 