-- 
GE Leads $100 Million Fund for Breast Cancer Challenge

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-09-15T14:38:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/ge-leads-100-million-fund-in-breast-cancer-treatment-challenge.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  joined four
venture capital firms in pledging $100 million for a six-month
contest to finance ideas for improving  breast cancer  detection.  The goal is to speed the diagnosis of breast cancer, the
most common form of the disease in women, and find more-precise
therapies, GE said today in a statement. Breast cancer also will
be the initial focus of a $1 billion GE investment over five
years to develop products to detect disease early and treat
tumors.  “In the case of breast cancer, there’s some meaningful
therapies, it’s such a pervasive disease, we thought it was a
good place to start,” Immelt said today at an event in  New York 
to unveil the effort. “There’s a chance for this disease to go
chronic in some cases.”  The contest is modeled on a smartgrid drive under GE’s
ecomagination initiative, which includes a $200 million fund
that has put up financing for 22 small companies and
entrepreneurs working on so-called renewable technologies. The
$1 billion is part of the $6 billion GE pledged to spend under
its Healthymagination campaign begun two years ago.  The contest will use both direct investments and grant
access to the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company’s sales force
and research and development resources, also awarding $100,000
for universities for research.  Diagnostic Tests  “We don’t think we invent it all here,” Immelt said to
reporters prior to the event. “We think there are great
opportunities to partner with small companies, in healthcare in
particular.”  Immelt has been building out the health-care business at
GE, expanding partnerships and boosting research with an eye
toward making cancer diagnosis more precise. GE spent $580
million last year to buy Clarient Inc., a maker of diagnostic
tests used to tailor treatments.  GE, the world’s biggest maker of medical-imaging equipment
and health-care information technology systems, will contribute
half of the $100 million fund. Venture capital firms Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers, Venrock Associates, Mohr Davidow
Ventures and MPM Capital LP will provide the rest. Immelt and
executives from the firms said the initiative is a chance for GE
to offer small companies funding at a time when investment
opportunities are scarce.  New Technologies  The cancer initiative also includes a three-year
partnership with Susan G. Komen for the Cure, a non-profit group
that raises money for breast cancer research, to expand women’s
access to new technologies to fight the disease, GE said.
Initial programs will be in  Wyoming ,  Saudi Arabia  and  China .  GE Healthcare, based outside  London  in Chalfont St. Giles,
contributed $16.9 billion of the parent company’s $150.2 billion
in revenue last year.  John Dineen, GE Healthcare president and CEO, said the
product line spans molecular imaging to inexpensive scans and an
information database that connects them both. GE competes with
Siemens AG and Royal Philips NA in medical imaging.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in New York at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  