-- 
Generation X Stymied by Boomers

-- B y   D u n e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   N o r a   Z i m m e t t
-- 
2011-09-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/generation-x-stymied-by-baby-boomers-refusing-to-give-up-jobs.html
In Tiffany Spaulding’s 12 years in
the pharmaceutical industry, she’s worked for three companies,
two of which no longer exist, and relocated to four states.  Now 39 and living in Brookfield,  Connecticut , she hasn’t
had a promotion in five years and says she sees no chance to
advance, stuck behind a wall of  baby boomers . She would quit and
turn her hobby of jewelry design into a business, she says, if
not for the home and school loans that eat up half her salary.  Spaulding, according to a new  report , is a typical member of
the relatively small group called Generation X, 46 million
Americans born between 1965 and 1978: They’re ambitious,
squeezed by debt and frustrated by people who aren’t retiring on
schedule. More than a third hope to leave their jobs in three
years, a survey of more than 1,100 members of Generation X by
the  Center for Work-Life Policy  found.  Twenty-eight percent say they are working longer hours, an
average of 10 more a week than three years ago, and credit card
debt helps dictate career choices for 74 percent, according to
the center’s report, based on research including interviews with
Spaulding and 200 others.  “They are being leaned on from all sides,” says Sylvia Ann Hewlett, a co-author of the report and the founder of the
center, based in  New York . “They don’t think that there is
necessarily a clear set of opportunities ahead of them in
corporate America, so there is a lot of flight risk.”  Not Slackers  The group’s moniker was popularized by Douglas Coupland’s
1991 novel “Generation X: Tales for an Accelerated Culture,”
and its members were epitomized as apathetic and directionless
in films such as “Slacker” in 1991 and 1994’s  “Reality
Bites.”  They long ago shed that image, Hewlett says, and as
they approach middle age pose challenges to companies that need
“bench strength for leadership.”  They have different expectations -- and demands -- of
employers, according to the report, prizing independence and
flexible hours more than their predecessors.  While their experiences and complaints are shared by other
generations, the report says that for this group, trends such as
the rising cost of higher education have hit particularly hard.
It says those entering college in 1996 had average expenses more
than four times higher than boomers 20 years earlier.  Many began their careers as companies started cutting back
on pensions and health care benefits, and while people in
Generation X are more educated and more diverse than boomers,
they have had “no welcome in the economy,” says  Neil Howe , a
demographer and co-author of six books on generations in the
U.S., including 2010’s “Millennials in the Workplace.”  ‘Financial Disaster’  Even those who aren’t stalled at work can feel pressured by
the lingering effects of the worst economic slump in seven
decades on a generation that has had rotten timing.  “You look at our generation and we’re on the cusp of
financial disaster, and it’s the first time that the American
dream isn’t what we all thought it was,” says Bryce Pickering,
who has worked at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in New York for 10 years and,
at 32, is among its youngest managing directors.  “A lot of my friends have been caught up in a bad cycle of
graduating at the wrong time, starting in a field that blew up,
deciding to go back to school and getting into debt to do that,
buying a house that’s now worth half what they bought it for.”  On the job, the report says, Pickering’s cohort is running
up against the “behemoth” baby boomer generation of 78 million
Americans. Forty-seven percent of this group view themselves as
in mid-career and 68 percent believe there’s still time for
promotions, according to the center. And coming up behind
Generation X is “Generation Y,” at 70 million strong.  Cookie Layer  Generation X -- whose members include Google founders  Larry Page  and  Sergey Brin , both 38, and Facebook Inc. Chief Operating
Officer  Sheryl Sandberg , 42 -- is much smaller than its
predecessor. “When boomers were in middle management, they
didn’t have pressure from Generation X leapfrogging them because
it’s not a huge group,” says Hewlett, who is the director of
the Gender and Policy Program at Columbia University’s School of
International and Public Affairs. “We think that Generation X
is certainly feeling this more strongly because the boomers are
delaying retirement.”  Todd  England , an air traffic controller, says he’s “stuck
in the middle,” unable to become a supervisor because older
managers need him to train younger controllers.  “We’re like the layer in between the cookies,” says
England, 46, who works in  Los Angeles . “Unless we actually step
up to the plate and take management and leadership roles, we
will be the forgotten generation.”  Single Mother  Birgit Neu, chief operating officer for corporate
development for global banking and markets at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
in  London , says she has also felt the pressure. Neu, 41, started
studying for a business degree at  New York University  in 1987,
the month before stock markets crashed and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  lost a record 23 percent in one day.  The Philadelphia native graduated into the recession of the
early 1990s and worked in publishing, then moved into the dot-
com industry, holding three jobs during the Internet bubble and
weathering the contraction that followed at a brokerage.  A single mother who often negotiates work from her
Blackberry while pushing her four-year-old son on the playground
swing, she says she is very aware of HSBC’s younger generation.  “I’ve been doing talks to the grads as they walk in now,
in their early 20s,” she says. “I think out to 20 years from
now, and one of these people theoretically may be my boss.”  She says her experience has taught her that to avoid
getting stalled, “you don’t want to stay in one box.”  Talent War  “Don’t be dependent on anything or anyone,” Neu says.
“It’s safest to plan as if the government isn’t going to take
care of me, companies aren’t going to take care of me.”  The center’s Generation X survey found 41 percent are
unsatisfied with their rate of advancement and 49 percent feel
stalled in their careers.  The findings come at time when businesses say it’s
increasingly difficult to find qualified workers, according to
Milwaukee-based ManpowerGroup, a provider of temporary
employees. In the U.S., 52 percent of employers reported having
trouble filling positions this year, up from 14 percent in 2010,
according to a ManpowerGroup survey.  That makes workers in Generation X, a third of whom have a
bachelor’s degree or higher and the youngest of whom have been
in the workforce for about a decade, a key pool for companies,
the report says.  “These are the next generation of leaders, and if we’re
not taking care of their needs and wants, how are we going to
retain them?” says Michelle Gadsden-Williams, Zurich-based
managing director and global head of diversity and inclusion at
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the Zurich-based investment bank.
“There is definitely a war for talent out there.”  More Flexible  The Generation X survey found that 70 percent would prefer
to be their own bosses. They want the flexibility that will
allow them to devote time to outside pursuits and family
obligations. Less rigid hours and less time spent in the office
are very important to 66 percent of women and 55 percent of men
in the study, though 43 percent of women and 32 percent of men
surveyed do not have children.  For those with children, Generation X members are as
extreme at home as they are at work as they try to be the kind
of involved parents that many of them -- the first generation of
“latchkey” kids -- did not have, according to the report.
Sixty-five percent of women and 59 percent of men surveyed feel
guilty about the time they spend away from their children, the
study found.  ‘Running Around’  “They’re trying to create this island of security for
their kids, and that creates tension,” demographer Howe says.
“They’re running around taking all these risks while they’re
trying to create the opposite life for their kids.”  Credit Suisse began more actively promoting flexible
arrangements last year within its finance group, expanding from
a focus on working mothers to all employees, Gadsden-Williams
says, and over 95 percent of requests are granted.  In May, Credit Suisse started a new effort designed by
Gadsden-Williams to train senior female employees, and that she
says provides the kind of experience Generation X wants.  Twenty-nine women are participating in an 18-month program
that gives them a chance to work in teams with senior executives
on special projects, one of which is to assess strategies for
attracting and retaining talent among Generation Y. Credit
Suisse was one of five sponsors of the Center for Work-Life
Policy study, along with American Express Co., Boehringer
Ingelheim USA,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   ‘Darn Tired’  At Cisco, workers may take leave of up to 12 months and
keep their benefits and jobs, which employees most often use to
have children and take care of elderly parents, according to
 Annmarie Neal , Cisco’s Denver-based chief talent officer.  In 2007, the  San Jose , California-based maker of networking
equipment began teaming up people in different departments for
16 weeks at a time to develop new strategic products or
initiatives. Participants have priority consideration for
leadership roles within the company, Neal says.  “With the baby boomers either retiring or just darn tired,
there’s a high reliance on Gen-X and Gen-Y to bring energy and
innovation into the organization, and just by virtue of their
relative maturity we draw more on Gen-X,” she says.  At PepsiCo Inc., “our talent strategy incorporates hiring
from all generational cohorts, but our focus on Generation X is
laser sharp,” says  Paul Marchand , vice president of global
talent acquisition at the Purchase, New York-based company.
“The next generation of leaders are going to be Gen-Xers, so
we’re always looking for ways to attract those who will one day
rise to the top layer of our organization.”  ‘Like Prison’  One new PepsiCo program helps develop the best prospects
for senior management, with six-month assignments that combine
business school training with immersion in operations in  China ,
 India  and  Brazil . PepsiCo last year started a career modeling
program where employees and managers set goals for assignments
three to 10 years out, so people see clear paths to advancement.  Spaulding, who has no children, says she sometimes finds
herself saddled with extra work because of an assumption that
“work-life balance” only applies to those with kids.  “There are days when I’ve said the corporate environment
feels like prison,” says Spaulding, who asked that her employer
not be named because she didn’t get permission to be
interviewed. “The biggest thing you can offer me, more than
salary, more than anything else, is flexibility.”  -- With assistance from Willow Bay and Shivaune Field in Los
Angeles. Editors: Anne Reifenberg, Lisa Kassenaar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net ;
Nora Zimmett in Los Angeles at 
 nzimmett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  