-- 
Germany Joins France in Affirming Support for Greece as Spain Sells Bonds

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-09-15T09:32:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/germany-france-to-keep-supporting-greece-as-spain-prepares-to-sell-bonds.html
Germany and  France  signaled they’re
ready to keep supporting Greece as finance ministers prepare for
a new round of crisis talks and Spain sold almost 4 billion
euros ($5.5 billion) in bonds.  Global stocks rebounded after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said late yesterday that they’re
“convinced” Greece will stay in the euro area. With global
policy makers urging  Europe  to step up its crisis fight,
officials meet in Wroclaw,  Poland , tomorrow to discuss how they
will implement the expansion of the euro region’s new bailout
fund. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  will
give a speech at 8 p.m. in Poland.  Investor skittishness over the spread of Europe’s debt
crisis has raised banks’ funding costs and roiled markets
worldwide. As European governments try to ratify a July 21
agreement to bolster the euro region’s bailout fund and extend a
second rescue to  Greece , traders are concerned that Italy and
Spain will be the next countries to get into trouble.  With markets as fragile as on the eve of the financial
crisis three years ago, Merkel and Sarkozy “had little choice”
other than to back Greece, said  Jim Reid , a strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG in  London . “The challenges will continue to
mount for Greece and for Europe in the weeks ahead, but this
reduces the immediate risk of a financial disaster.”  Growth Slowing  The market turmoil being caused by the debt crisis is
weighing on the real economy, the European Commission said today
in Brussels. The EU cut its forecast for economic growth to 0.2
percent for the third quarter and 0.1 percent for the final
three months, from a March estimate of 0.4 percent for both
periods.  The Spanish bond due Oct. 31, 2020 was sold to yield 5.156
percent, compared with 5.2 percent when it was last sold on Feb.
17. The yield on its 10-year bond rose 5 basis points to 5.41
percent, 350 basis points more than German bunds.  Italy  saw its financing costs jump at a bond auction two
days ago. The extra yield that investors demand to hold Italian
10-year bonds over German bunds closed at a euro-era high on
Sept. 13 of 392 basis points, or 3.92 percentage points. It was
at 371 basis points today.  The euro climbed 0.1 percent to $1.3767 at 11:04 a.m. in
Berlin and the Euro Stoxx 50 Index added 1.4 percent.  Split on Greece  Europe’s crisis has worsened as leaders split on how to
deal with Greece. Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao yesterday called on
other countries to “put their houses in order” and  Timothy F. Geithner  will tomorrow become the first U.S. Treasury Secretary
to attend a European finance ministers’ summit.  Underscoring divisions in Europe, European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  said he was close to proposing options on
joint euro-area bond sales, putting officials in Brussels on a
collision course with  Germany  over steps to contain the
sovereign debt crisis.  “The commission will soon present options for the
introduction of euro bonds,” Barroso told the European
Parliament yesterday in Strasbourg, France, prompting applause
from lawmakers who have backed the idea and a swift rejection
from officials in Berlin. “Some of these options could be
implemented within the terms of the current treaty; others would
require treaty change.”  Conference Call  In the three-way telephone call, Papandreou committed to
enacting policies demanded by the EU and International Monetary
Fund to keep the bailout money flowing. Sarkozy and Merkel “are
convinced that the future of Greece is in the  euro zone ,” the
French statement said.  “I am skeptical that this will help to reassure markets,”
said Tullia Bucco, an economist at UniCredit Global Research in
Milan. “The road to the implementation of the second aid
package is still quite long and may prove bumpy.”  The Greek Cabinet this month endorsed measures to help meet
deficit targets of 17.1 billion euros in 2011 and 14.9 billion
euros in 2012, covering a 2 billion-euro shortfall for this year
that has been exacerbated by a deepening recession.  The fulfillment of Greece’s adjustment program is “more
than ever” essential and is a condition for the payment of
further aid tranches, Merkel said in the call, according to an
e-mailed statement from her chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert.  Papandreou said Sept. 10 that the government’s top priority
is “to save the country from bankruptcy” and said he would do
whatever is necessary to meet targets.  Austerity ‘Indispensable’  Putting austerity programs into place “is indispensable to
establish sustainable and balanced growth in Greece,” according
to the statement issued in Paris. “The success of the Greek
plan will provide stability to the euro zone.”  While the ECB is currently leading the euro region’s crisis
strategy as it buys the bonds from Ireland to  Spain  and Italy,
euro governments want to expand the powers of their bailout
fund, the European Financial Stability Facility Fund.  Its chief financial officer, Christophe Frankel, said in
 Singapore  today that parliaments may approve it by early
October. The EFSF probably won’t issue long-term bonds before
the first week of October, and market conditions will be a
determinant, he told reporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  