-- 
Gillard Sees No Media Ownership Change in Australia as China Boom Persists

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 
2011-09-16T08:14:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/gillard-sees-no-media-ownership-change-in-australia-as-china-boom-persists.html
Australia’s first female prime
minister, assailed by media outlets owned by  Rupert Murdoch ’s
News Ltd., which controls 70 percent of newspapers in the
country, said her government’s inquiry into the news industry
won’t result in any change in ownership.  The probe, announced earlier this week by  Julia Gillard ’s
Labor government, was prompted by concern that the illegal
telephone hacking pursued by Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  in the U.K.
would spread to Australia. Gillard demanded and received an
apology for a falsehood published last month by the Australian,
a newspaper owned by  News Corp. (NWS) ’s Sydney-based News Ltd.  “We’re not in the business of trying to unpack media
ownership,” said the 49-year-old Gillard in an interview
yesterday from her office in Canberra in between parliamentary
votes as she discussed  China , carbon pricing, minerals taxation,
international politics and increasing female leadership. “We
can’t go back in time and re-engineer the ownership of
newspapers in this country today and in this world of change I
actually think our eyes have to be on the big things that are
changing -- the economics of newspapers themselves.”  In a week that began with a slump in her approval to a
record-low 32 percent in a Nielsen survey taken Sept. 8-10,
Gillard has started the media probe, introduced legislation to
tax carbon emissions, proposed an overhaul of refugee laws and,
in the interview, pledged to forge ahead with a “big reform
agenda.” Gillard is betting that her record will turn polls
around by the election in 2013.  ‘Iron Lady’  “She could be our Iron Lady because she is determined and
tough,” said Ian McAllister, an expert in voting behavior at
the  Australian National University  in Canberra, likening the
U.K.-born Gillard to former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who in 1980 refused to abandon unpopular policies and
went on to win two more elections. “A year after the carbon and
mining tax are introduced and she has dealt with refugees, the
polls may well have turned for her.”  The prime minister, whose government has a one-vote
majority and who faces the worst approval rating of any
predecessor in almost 20 years, is battling a hostile media and
a surging currency that has pushed companies such as toll-
operator RiverCity Motorway Group into  bankruptcy protection .
Gillard’s public backing plummeted after News Ltd. newspapers
this month said that unidentified  Labor party  members wanted her
to quit.  Paper Apologized  Murdoch’s Australian last month published an opinion piece
including false allegations concerning Gillard’s former
relationship with a union official. She telephoned the newspaper
to demand a retraction and an apology. The Australian complied
on the same day and withdrew the article from its  website .  “I’ve had some things to say about media quality and bias
by certain media outlets and that national conversation will
continue,” said Gillard. “But this isn’t a mathematical
formula where you can go x plus y necessarily equals z. Politics,
community sentiment, community mood, the nature of reform, the
opportunities of the future are far more complicated than
that.”  The prime minister told parliament this week that her
government is “on the right side of history” as she submitted
legislation for the nation’s first levy on greenhouse-gas
emissions. Polluters will pay A$23 ($24.74) per metric ton of
 carbon emissions  as the government seeks to wean the country off
its dependence on fossil fuels.  Scale of Ambition  “What all of this is about, our domestic debate, is how to
get there and when do you start,” Gillard said of reducing
emissions. “I’m for starting next year.”  Gillard plans a tax on mining in a nation that’s seen its
economy propelled by China’s demand for  iron ore  and coal. The
30 percent tax on iron ore and coal profits, taking effect in
July should it be approved by parliament, is forecast to raise
A$7.7 billion in its first two years. It will be used to cut the
corporate tax rate to 29 percent from 30 percent, encourage
retirement savings and pay for roads and railways.  Asked whether a slump in Chinese demand would prompt her to
abandon the proposed mining measure, Gillard said “there’s no
advice to me that would cause me concern about Chinese demand
collapsing,” predicting it will be “strong.” The  Asian
Development Bank  this week projected that China’s gross domestic
product will rise 9.3 percent this year after a 10.4 percent
jump in 2010.  ‘Turbo Charged’  “We have a resources sector that is turbo charged by the
growth in our region, we’ve got more than A$400 billion of
investment in the pipeline,” said Gillard, who was a labor
attorney before entering parliament. As China’s population
increasingly concentrates in cities and people are lifted out of
poverty,  Australia  will see “large exports of resources as a
result,” she said.  Australia, the only major developed nation to avoid a
recession during the 2008-2009 global slump, saw economic growth
of 1.2 percent in the second quarter from the previous three
months, the most in four years, a government report showed last
week.  The mining boom and interest-rate increases by the central
bank have enhanced the nation’s currency, which has climbed
almost 20 percent in the past two years, reaching $1.1081 on
July 27, the highest level since it was traded freely in 1983.
It closed at $1.0335 at 6 p.m. in Sydney.  The gains made it harder for Australia’s non-mining
industries to compete, with  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL)  last month
saying it will cut about 1,000 jobs because of a second-half
loss due to high raw-material costs and exchange-rate gains.  Currency Outlook  “As far as the eye can see in terms of predictions we will
be very strong against the  U.S. dollar ,” Gillard said. “The
minerals resource rent tax is really about taking a fair share
of taxation from the highly profitable companies in the sector
of the economy that is turbo charged and using some of that to
bolster growth in other sections.”  The prime minister, who took office in June 2010 after
leading an ouster of  Kevin Rudd  as head of the Labor party, has
refused to back down on the mining proposal in face of
opposition by industry executives. Fortescue Metals Group Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Forrest called it “dangerous.”  Gillard continues to press for an overhaul in how refugees
are processed for asylum claims. After the  High Court  on Aug. 31
ruled that her plan for a refugee swap with Malaysia was illegal,
she said that she would submit amendments to the migration law
to parliament.  Opposition Chief  Without the support of the Greens party, which opposes her
asylum plan and on whom she relies for a majority in parliament,
Gillard has turned to opposition leader  Tony Abbott .  While Abbott has criticized the prime minister for failing
to stem the flow of boat people, Gillard told the opposition
leader at a Sept. 12 press conference that the vote on amending
migration laws was “a test as to whether he is guided by the
national interest, or he is always guided by his political
interest.”  Abbott has yet to say whether he’ll support Gillard’s
proposed legislation on refugees. He criticizes her media
opposition, saying it “looks like a naked attempt to intimidate
the media.” He separately pledged to repeal the mining tax if
he comes to power.  ‘Negativism’ Focus  “All the evidence so far is that Abbott’s focus of
attention is on negativism rather than building a substantial
policy alternative,” said Peter van Onselen, a professor of
politics and journalism at the University of Western Australia
in Crawley. “When you’ve got a polling lead that he has, an
opposition leader never gets a better time to show what they’re
made of rather than extend their political advantage.”  Van Onselen, who co-wrote a biography of former Prime
Minister  John Howard , said that Gillard faces a struggle to turn
support around. She’s been undermined by a reversal on the
carbon-tax issue, after she pledged to refrain from a levy
during last year’s campaign, he said. Gillard suffers from
opposition criticism that she lacks a mandate after the election
result didn’t give her party an outright majority.  “It would be unprecedented if she could come back from as
far behind as she is,” said van Onselen.  Gillard is the first Australian prime minister who isn’t
married, and she doesn’t have children. She said in a 2006
 interview  with Australia’s ABC television that “I’m kind of
full of admiration for women who can mix it together, working
and having kids, but I’m not sure I could have. There’s
something in me that’s focused and single-minded, and if I was
going to do that, I’m not sure I could have done this.”  ‘Family’ Values  Abbott, 53, heads the Liberal-National coalition, which
Labor ousted in 2007 after an 11-year rule under Howard. Married
with three daughters, Abbott introduced “family” values as one
of his themes in his campaign for the August 2010 election that
resulted in the narrowest division between the main parties in
70 years.  In an Aug. 8, 2010  campaign speech , Abbott said “the most
conservative instinct of all” is to have a family. He has kept
up such comments, saying in prepared remarks on June 25 that
“as conservatives, we support the family and values that have
stood the test of time.”  The prime minister said that “I’ve always thought the
Australian culture is blokey in some ways, yes, but also
egalitarian.” She said that “me doing this job has caused
people around the nation to lift their eyes and think, well, for
the future it’s not something that just my son can aspire to and
that my daughter can aspire to as well.”  Women Representation  Gillard, who was born in Wales and emigrated to Australia
when she was four after contracting bronchial pneumonia, said
she aims to boost female representation across government boards.  The lack of women on the central bank’s board, which has
had only three in half a century of existence, “is reflective
of a problem we have with corporate boards around Australia,”
she said. Women account for a majority of  consumer spending  in
the nation, according to the Australian Women Chamber of
Commerce & Industry.  “It’s not acceptable to me in the modern age that we can
look at boards of major corporations and not see one woman” at
a time when the government’s cabinet has women representatives
and is led by a woman, she said.  It’s a challenge being the first female to lead the
government, said Gillard, who was mocked by some in 2005 when a
video shoot of her home showed an  empty fruit bowl , a symbol of
her life-choice as a professional.  Gillard said she shared her perspective with U.S. Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton , finding common belief in fortitude.
“I’m a big believer in the power of perseverance, of keeping
going, showing determination, of getting it done.”  “I don’t want to overcook it, but if it makes a difference
for one woman, one girl whose idea for opportunity broadens
because I am doing this job, it’s a great result,” the prime
minister said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Winkler at   mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  