-- 
Goldman Sachs Shuts Down Global Alpha Fund After Investors Withdraw Money

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-09-15T23:52:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/goldman-sachs-shuts-global-alpha-fund-as-clients-withdraw-money.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, will shut its Global Alpha
fund after clients pulled money from the quantitative trading
pool that was once the firm’s largest hedge fund.  Global Alpha will stop charging fees at the end of this
month and aims to finish liquidating most assets by mid-October,
according to a letter that Goldman Sachs Asset Management sent
to clients Sept. 14. The fund, which managed $11 billion of
assets in 2007, had less than $1.7 billion at the end of June,
according to a person familiar with the matter who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the numbers aren’t public.  Goldman Sachs, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Lloyd C. Blankfein, 56, has been shrinking Global Alpha since
2007 when it lost 40 percent because of bad bets on currencies,
equities and bonds worldwide. The fund’s co-managers Mark Carhart and Raymond Iwanowski quit in March 2009, and Katinka Domotorffy took charge of the quantitative investment strategies
unit, which uses computers to pick securities and oversees $56
billion.  Reuters reported yesterday that the Global Alpha fund was
down 12 percent through the end of August, and the Wall Street
Journal reported that it was being shut.  Ed Canaday , a spokesman
for the New York-based bank, confirmed the letter’s contents and
said he couldn’t comment on the performance.  Lehman Claims  Domotorffy is leaving at year-end and being replaced by new
managers, including Armen Avanessians, a partner who has served
on the securities division’s executive committee since 2003,
according to a separate letter to investors Sept. 14. Ron Hua,
who oversaw $12 billion of equity assets at PanAgora Asset
Management Inc., was hired as chief investment officer and head
of the quantitative equity alpha business.  Goldman Sachs wrote in the letter that it aims to
distribute 85 percent to 90 percent of the total proceeds from
the fund’s assets to clients by the end of October. The fund’s
claims against  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , which declared
bankruptcy three years ago, may take longer and the fund may
have liabilities to Lehman as well, according to the letter.  “We have extensively reviewed the fund’s claims against,
and potential liabilities to,  Lehman Brothers  and intend to
vigorously pursue a resolution with Lehman Brothers that is in
the best interests of investors in the fund,” Goldman Sachs
wrote. “We cannot predict when the fund will be able to make
final distributions, if any, to investors in the fund.”  Goldman Sachs is aiming to build the fund-management unit
and improve its performance. The overall business had $844
billion under management at the end of June and generated 13
percent of the firm’s revenue in this year’s first six months.  Asset Management Moves  Avanessians, who joined Goldman Sachs in 1985 and became a
partner in 1994, is the latest executive to move into asset
management from other parts of the bank.  Jim O’Neill , the chief
economist, was appointed chairman of asset management last year.
The investment unit’s co-heads, Timothy J. O’Neill and Edward C. Forst, came from other divisions.  Bill Fallon, who became chief investment officer and head
of alpha strategies when Domotorffy took over, will cede the
equity business to Hua and focus on quantitative macro funds,
according to the letter. Don Mulvihill will remain chief
investment officer and head of customized beta strategies,
Goldman Sachs said. Both will report to Avanessians, who will be
based in New York. He will report to O’Neill and Forst, who
signed the letter.  Domotorffy joined Goldman Sachs in 1998 as a portfolio
manager and researcher with the quantitative global macro and
fixed-income teams, according to the letter. She became head of
strategy for the quantitative investment strategies group in
2007 before taking the leadership role two years later.  Carhart is now running Kepos Capital Management LP, which
has $150 million under management and has made a 9 percent
return so far this year, before fees, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 