-- 
Gold Slumps on Signs Europe Cash Infusion May Ease Sovereign-Debt Crisis

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-09-15T18:35:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/gold-declines-as-german-french-support-for-greece-cuts-safe-haven-demand.html
Gold dropped to the lowest in
almost three weeks on signs that European banks will have enough
cash through year-end, easing concern that the region’s debt
crisis will worsen.  The  European Central Bank  coordinated with international
policy makers to lend dollars to banks to help tame the credit
crisis. Stocks climbed in the U.S. and Europe as Germany and
France gave assurances that Greece will remain part of the
European Union, while China indicated it is willing to buy euro-
based bonds.  “This is an initial knee-jerk reaction after the ECB’s
statement as people are viewing it positive for the European
economy,”  Frank McGhee , the head dealer at Integrated Brokerage
Services in Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “The ECB
has managed to find a Band-Aid for now.”  Gold futures for December delivery fell $45.10, or 2.5
percent, to close at $1,781.40 an ounce at 1:56 p.m. on the
Comex in New York. Earlier, the price touched $1,775, the lowest
since Aug. 26.  The precious metal has climbed 25 percent this year,
reaching a record $1,923.70 on Sept. 6.  “Assurance from Germany and  France  was certainly the main
catalyst for today’s fall,” James Cordier, the founder of
Optionsellers.com in Tampa, Florida, said in a telephone
interview. “China certainly has the checkbook to solve Greece’s
problems in the near term.”  Gold prices are in the 11th year of a  bull market , the
longest winning streak since at least 1920 in  London , as
investors seek to diversify away from equities and some
currencies.  China Bond Buying  China is willing to buy euro bonds “within its capacity,”
 Zhang Xiaoqiang , the vice chairman of the country’s National
Development and Reform Commission, said at the  World Economic
Forum  in Dalian. Zhang reiterated earlier comments at the event
by Premier Wen Jiabao, who said developed nations must first
“put their own houses in order,” cut deficits and open markets
rather than rely on China to bail out the world economy.  Silver futures for December delivery fell $1.032, or 2.5
percent, to settle at $39.501 an ounce on the Comex, sliding for
the second straight day.  On the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, platinum futures for
October delivery declined $35.30, or 1.9 percent, to $1,780.60
an ounce, the biggest loss since Aug. 24. Palladium futures for
December delivery rose $2.50, or 0.3 percent, to $723.50 an
ounce.  -- With assistance from Maria Kolesnikova in London and Phoebe
Sedgman in Melbourne. Editors: Millie Munshi, Patrick McKiernan  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in Mumbai at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  