-- 
Goldman Sachs Maintains Crude Oil, Copper Forecasts Even as Risks Increase

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-09-15T08:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/goldman-sachs-maintains-crude-oil-copper-forecasts-even-as-risks-increase.html
Brent crude and copper may rally as
global economic growth led by emerging markets remains adequate
to drive an expansion in raw-materials demand,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  said, sticking with forecasts for price gains.  “We remain constructive on commodities,”  Allison Nathan ,
an analyst at Goldman for more than a decade, said in an
interview today. Still, “risks to our bullish views have
risen,” said Nathan, citing Europe’s sovereign-debt problems
and a “mixed bag” of economic data from the  United States .  Goldman’s position contrasts with the outlook from Societe
Generale SA’s global asset-allocation team, which said
commodities are in a “danger zone” as growth slows, according
to a report distributed yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index of 24 commodities has shed 14 percent since April 11
on speculation that the global recovery is faltering.  “We’ve seen emerging-markets demand for key commodities,
including oil, holding up well,” Nathan said in Singapore.
There haven’t yet been signs that the economic woes in developed
markets are spreading to emerging economies, she said.  Goldman correctly advised investors to sell oil and copper
in April, then turned bullish in May before prices rebounded.
Last month, the bank forecast gains for  Brent crude , zinc, and
other commodities over the next 12 months, analysts led by
 Jeffrey Currie  said in an Aug. 8 report.  Copper may climb to $11,000 per metric ton, while Brent
gains to $130 a barrel, the report said. Three-month copper on
the London Metal Exchange, which reached a record $10,190 per
ton in February, traded at $8,660 per ton at 4:10 p.m. in
Singapore, while Brent was at $112.60 per barrel.  Greek Rescue  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said yesterday that they are “convinced”  Greece 
will stay in the euro area, boosting equity and metals prices.
European governments are aiming to ratify a July 21 accord to
bolster a bailout fund and extend a second rescue to Greece.  Investor skittishness over the spread of  Europe ’s debt
crisis combined with signs that U.S. growth may be slowing have
roiled markets worldwide. Recent data have shown U.S. retail
sales were unchanged in August, while the economy generated no
jobs and earnings fell.  “If we see weakness spreading on a global basis, that
would be a catalyst to expect a weaker demand environment and
potentially weaker prices relative to our forecast,” Nathan
said in the interview. ‘If there was a crisis in the European
banking sector, a crisis akin to 2008 could occur and that would
have a large impact on commodity prices.”  China  Forecasts  Still, Goldman economists forecast that China’s economic
growth may be 9.2 percent next year, compared with an estimate
of 9.3 percent for this year, according to Nathan. The nation is
the world’s largest user of metals and energy.  Low inventories of aluminum, copper and steel in China are
an indicator that demand in the country “isn’t that bad,”
Julian Zhu, a Goldman analyst, said at a media briefing in
 Singapore  today. Traders and investors have been concerned that
rising interest rates and a credit-tightening policy in the
nation may lead to slower consumption of raw materials.  “The Chinese government is very flexible and if they need,
they can reverse the tightening policy very fast,” said Zhu.
“This could be very supportive to demand for commodities
because investment by local governments at all levels will see a
Rebound,” said Zhu.  Societe Generale’s report said that there may be a
“meaningful drop” in prices of so-called cyclical commodities
such as oil and copper. Gold may rally from an increase in  risk
aversion , according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  