-- 
Goldman Sachs Names Avanessians to Head Quant Funds, Hires PanAgora’s Hua

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-09-15T17:23:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/goldman-sachs-s-domotorffy-to-retire-from-quant-strategies-unit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said new managers will run
the quantitative funds unit and that Katinka Domotorffy is
retiring after 13 years at the firm.  Armen Avanessians, a partner who has served on the
securities division’s executive committee since 2003, will head
the global quantitative business within asset management, the
New York-based company said in a letter to clients yesterday.
Ron Hua, who oversaw $12 billion of equity assets at PanAgora
Asset Management Inc., was hired as chief investment officer and
head of the quantitative equity alpha business.  Goldman Sachs Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 56, is aiming to build the firm’s fund-management
unit and improve its performance. The business had $844 billion
under management at the end of June and generated 13 percent of
the firm’s revenue in the first six months of this year.  Avanessians, who joined Goldman Sachs in 1985 and became a
partner in 1994, is the latest executive to move into asset
management from other parts of the bank.  Jim O’Neill , the chief
economist, was appointed chairman of asset management last year.
The investment unit’s co-heads, Timothy J. O’Neill and Edward C. Forst, came from other divisions.  Domotorffy took charge of the quant-funds unit, which uses
computer models to pick securities to trade, after co-heads Mark Carhart and Raymond Iwanowski quit in March 2009. Carhart and
Iwanowski had managed Goldman Sachs’s Global Alpha fund, which
was the firm’s largest hedge fund before sustaining losses and
client redemptions in 2007 and 2008.  Beta Strategies  Bill Fallon, who became chief investment officer and head
of alpha strategies when Domotorffy took over, will cede the
equity business to Hua and focus on quantitative macro funds,
according to the letter. Don Mulvihill will remain chief
investment officer and head of customized beta strategies,
Goldman Sachs said. Both will report to Avanessians, who will be
based in  New York .  Avanessians will report to O’Neill and Forst, who signed
the letter. Its contents were confirmed by  Ed Canaday , a company
spokesman. The moves were reported yesterday by Reuters.  Domotorffy joined Goldman Sachs in 1998 as a portfolio
manager and researcher with the quantitative global macro and
fixed-income teams, according to the letter. She became head of
strategy for the quantitative investment strategies group in
2007 before taking the leadership role two years later.  Goldman Sachs gained $3.25, or 3.1 percent, to $107.79 at
1:18 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
stock had fallen 38 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 