-- 
Google Do-Gooder Discount Leaves Churches to Beg: Stephen Carter

-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 
2011-09-15T00:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/google-do-gooder-discount-lets-churches-beg-commentary-by-stephen-carter.html
I am not sure what exactly led
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  to decide to celebrate the 400th anniversary of the
King James Bible by making it harder for religious groups to do
their work. But that is the practical effect of a set of changes
in pricing policies adopted by the tech giant this year.  Until recently, Google offered discounts on many of its
paid services to nonprofit organizations, including churches.
This past spring, with little fanfare, the company changed its
policy. It created a new suite of applications, known as Google
for Nonprofits, that includes significant discounts and
advantages for a range of Google products such as grants for
advertising on AdWords, free licenses for Google Earth Pro and
the option to raise funds through a “donate” button at Google
Checkout.  Google also added  a remarkable list  of restrictions for
eligible charitable groups and institutions. Among those not
able to apply for the program are websites where people donate
cars to charity; child care centers, unless the “entire”
purpose is to serve a disadvantaged community; hospitals;
websites “that result in a poor experience for the viewer”;
and -- most troublesome -- “places or institutions of worship
(e.g., churches, ministries, temples, synagogues).”  This last restriction caught religious groups by surprise -
-and, according to  an article  in Christianity Today, which first
reported the story, many have cut back on services in response
to the unexpected price increases on Google’s applications.
Another program, the cloud computing service Google App Engine,
recently beset with  controversy  because of price increases, may
also soon see discounts for non-profits -- with similar
restrictions, one assumes.)  The evangelist (and Watergate veteran) Charles Colson has
labeled Google’s action as  “corporate cowardice.”  That is
clearly over the top -- the only entity that I can imagine
Google might fear is Facebook -- but I do believe the new policy
is a serious mistake. I am a great fan of Google and its
products, and, like most everyone these days, I rely on its
search engine. But Google for Nonprofits is poorly conceived.  The premise of the policy seems to be that there are two
kinds of nonprofits in the world -- the good ones and the bad
ones -- and Google wants to support only the good ones, in sync
with its do-no-evil corporate philosophy. Well, Google is a
private company and, within broad limits, is free to deal with
whom it chooses, on whatever terms it likes.  Many corporations exclude religious groups from their
charitable-giving programs. But there is a vast difference
between a company’s considered decision on where to spend its
cash in pursuing the social good, and its rules on the prices it
charges different customers. It is unusual indeed for a company
that discounts products and services to nonprofits to exclude
religious organizations.  One might respond to Google’s restrictions by citing the
significant philosophical, historical and psychological work on
why and how religions are different from other entities -- and
why they need to be. But we need not reach for the esoteric.
There are strong secular reasons for Google to change its
policy.  For starters, the new rules ignore the enormous charitable
services provided by religious organizations. Without discounts,
many religious groups would have difficulty undertaking serious
charitable work at all.  My church, for example, runs a much-needed lunch program
for poor women and their children. No similar service exists in
the neighborhood. The program relies almost entirely on donated
or discounted food from restaurants and stores. Were these for-
profit companies suddenly to decide that churches were not
eligible for their largesse, the lunch program would almost
certainly be shut down.  The program is not unusual. In many parts of the U.S. --
and in many suffering corners of the world -- the charitable
work done by religious groups is pretty much all the charitable
work that is done. During the worst of the attacks on Darfur,
for example, it has generally been religious groups rather than
the secular nongovernmental organizations who have stuck it out.  Religious charities, moreover, tend to be more  efficient 
than secular nonprofits, with lower costs for administration and
a larger portion of the money they raise going directly to
services.  Other large corporations that restrict giving to religious
groups recognize the difference among religious activities. For
example, the Walmart Foundation’s national giving program
 excludes  “Faith-based organizations when the proposed grant
will only benefit the organization or its members” -- leaving
room, say, for a soup kitchen.  To be sure, Google for Nonprofits has its defenders. Erwin
De Leon, blogging at  Nonprofit Quarterly , asked:  “Aren’t
churches the first ones to exclude those who disagree or
challenge their beliefs and those with lifestyles they judge
sinful?”  Certainly, religious groups tend to limit their ranks to
those who support their mission, but it is difficult to imagine
what nonprofit would do otherwise. And few religious charities
make distinctions among those they serve.  Besides, if one genuinely wants to help secular nonprofit
groups, one way to do so might be to give to religions. How so?
According to  research compiled  by the social scientist Arthur C. Brooks, people who regularly attend religious services are more
than twice as likely to volunteer for entirely secular causes
than those who do not attend church. They are also significantly
more likely than the nonreligious to give money to secular
organizations, and the amounts they give are larger.  Like most large corporations, Google already subsidizes the
nonprofits it likes in the old-fashioned way, with millions of
dollars in  direct donations .  This is all to the good. But with
respect to the pricing of Google’s products, there is no
compelling reason not to give religious organizations the same
treatment accorded other nonprofits.  Google for Nonprofits is a fine idea, but one has the sense
that the new program was poorly vetted. Google says it is taking
a second look at its eligibility guidelines. Let’s hope that
version 2.0 gets rid of the bugs.  (Stephen L. Carter, a novelist, professor of law at  Yale
University  and the author of “The Violence of Peace: America’s
Wars in the Age of Obama,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 