-- 
Miami International Planning U.S. Stock Exchange Following Options Launch

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-09-15T20:40:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/miami-international-planning-stock-exchange-after-options-launch.html
Miami International Holdings Inc.
plans to open the 14th U.S. stock exchange after starting an
options market next year, a company executive said.  MIAX Equities Exchange will focus on listing companies from
Central and  South America  when the Miami-based venue begins
sometime after next year, Shelly Brown, the Princeton, New
Jersey-based company’s senior vice president for strategic
planning and operations, said in a phone interview. Florida’s
population in Miami-Dade County in 2010 was 65 percent Hispanic
or Latino, according to U.S. Census Bureau  data .  The U.S. equities marketplace includes 13 exchanges,
several electronic communications networks and more than 40 dark
pools, or private venues that trade stocks and exchange-traded
funds. The system is knitted together by rules requiring venues
to avoid trading at prices worse than the best available
elsewhere. As competition among venues increased over the last
dozen years, total volume surged and the share of trading by the
 New York  Stock Exchange and Nasdaq Stock Market in the companies
the list plunged.  “The cash equities and options market in the U.S. are
quite crowded and extremely competitive,” Michael Wong, a
Chicago-based capital-markets analyst at Morningstar Inc., said
in a phone interview. “To get a foothold they’d have to
differentiate themselves with a new product or niche. That’s the
real driver for getting an exchange off the ground.”  ‘No Real Reason’  While there’s room for another listing venue for companies
that want to raise money, “there’s no real reason for more to
exist,” he said. Bats Global Markets and Nasdaq OMX BX are
planning new businesses this year to attract companies that want
to list shares. “It’s difficult to see how they’ll get ahead of
existing exchanges that are not resting on their laurels and
that are extremely competitive,” Wong said.  The  MIAX  Options Exchange is scheduled to start trading in
the second quarter, pending regulatory approval, Brown said.
Draft rules for the MIAX market are under review by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, he said. Heather Seidel, an
associate director in the agency’s division of trading and
markets, declined to comment on the status of the  exchange 
application at a conference yesterday in New York sponsored by
the Futures Industry Association and Options Industry Council.  “The majority of our efforts are focused on the options
exchange right now,” Brown said. “We’re still working on the
final structure of that exchange.”  Technology Staff  MIAX’s senior management and technology development staff
are “100 percent complete,” Brown said. The firm has about 60
employees, most in Princeton, up from about 25 in April. The
executive chairman is Thomas P. Gallagher, a founding partner of
Princeton-based law firm Gallagher, Briody & Butler, which helps
companies raise money through debt and equity offerings. Brown
declined to comment on the exchange operator’s funding.  Eight company executives out of 13, including Brown, worked
at the Philadelphia Stock Exchange or Nasdaq OMX PHLX, the name
of the options market after  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  bought the
country’s oldest securities exchange for $652 million in 2008.
Brown left Nasdaq OMX in 2009 for a job at Peak6 Investments LP
in  Chicago . He joined MIAX in April.  There are nine options exchanges now, compared with four in
1999.  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  in Chicago and Nasdaq OMX and  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , both in New York, each run two markets catering to
different types of participants. Options volume rose 8 percent
to 3.9 billion contracts last year for an eighth-straight annual
record, according to Chicago-based  OCC , which clears and settles
all options trades on exchanges.  More Competition  “There’s a cost as well as a benefit to having more
competitors,” Steven Crutchfield, chief executive officer of
NYSE Amex Options, said at the equity options conference in New
York yesterday. While new markets may offer novel ways to trade,
customers must connect to them and track their pricing, he said.  Sang Lee, managing partner at Boston-based Aite Group LLC,
said in a phone interview that while innovation is often
rewarded it’s unclear how MIAX will be able to draw orders away
from existing options and equities markets. Lenexa, Kansas-based
Bats and Direct Edge Holdings Inc. in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey ,
pulled  stock trading  away from the incumbent exchanges at a time
when there were fewer rivals of importance, he said.  “If it’s a me-too offering, the market’s already
crowded,” Lee said. “A listings business for Latin American
stocks could make sense but exchanges in  Latin America  are doing
pretty well. I don’t know if a Miami-based exchange could take
away business from those markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 