-- 
IBM Hired by Huawei for Branding Advice Amid Tablet, Cloud Push

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-15T05:32:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/ibm-hired-by-huawei-for-branding-advice-on-expansion-into-tablets-cloud.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  was hired to advise Huawei Technologies Co. on branding
strategy as the Chinese telecommunications gear supplier expands
into tablet computers, smartphones and cloud computing.  The project involves 25 consultants from the world’s
biggest computer-services provider and is expected to be
completed by the end of November, Ross Gan, a Huawei spokesman,
said in an interview today. Harriet Ip, a spokeswoman for
Armonk, New York-based IBM in  Singapore , confirmed the
arrangement by phone today. Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  “It’s not a traditional branding project where they tell
us how the brand should be positioned,” Gan said in a phone
interview from Huawei’s headquarters in Shenzhen, southern
China. “It’s more from the management-of-the-process point of
view: How do I manage the brand function within the
organization? Who is responsible for what?”  Huawei is expanding its 13-year relationship with IBM as it
seeks to more than triple sales to $100 billion in the next 10
years by expanding into consumer digital devices and enterprise
computing. The thrust requires closely held Huawei to promote to
consumers, businesses and government agencies, including those
in the U.S., where efforts to buy rivals have been rebuffed amid
allegations the company threatens national security.  The interagency Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S.
in February told Huawei, founded in 1988 by former Chinese army
officer Ren Zhengfei, to divest its purchase of 3Leaf Systems
after lawmakers said the deal threatened national security.  Bids Thwarted  3Leaf, founded in 2004, developed technology for cloud
computing that lets businesses and government agencies move
applications and programs such as e-mail to remote networks
owned and operated by a third party. Huawei was also thwarted in
bids to buy 2Wire and Motorola Inc.’s wireless business last
year, and 3Com Corp. in 2008.  Huawei has said its employees own the company and  China ’s
government and military don’t hold any shares. Ren has had no
connection to the military since he retired from service more
than two decades ago, according to Huawei.  Huawei in April unveiled plans for the thrust into consumer
devices, including tablets, smartphones and “enterprise
computing,” setting up computer and communication networks for
businesses and government agencies.  Enterprise Computing  The company said at the time it expects enterprise
computing revenue to grow to as much as $20 billion within five
years, from $2 billion last year. Sales of mobile devices may
rise to $20 billion in the same period from $5 billion last
year.  Huawei’s relationship with IBM started in 1998 when Ren
began traveling to the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  to learn
international best practices as his company expanded globally.  In 1999, the Chinese company added collaboration on
research and development and supply chain management to IBM’s
roles. Human resources management was added in 2005 and
financial management in 2007. The new contract is the first for
work on brand strategy from Huawei, Ip of IBM said.  “IBM has a very strong branding strategy,” Ip said.
“After several rounds of doing this ourselves, we have the
expertise to help clients as well. That’s something we can share
with Huawei and our other clients.”  Huawei won its first contract outside China in 1997. It
achieved international sales of more than $100 million by 2000,
and overseas business exceeded contracts in China for the first
time in 2005, according to data supplied by the company.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  