-- 
Icahn’s Denner Said to Consider Leaving to Start Own Hedge Fund

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-09-15T16:05:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/icahn-s-denner-said-to-consider-leaving-to-start-own-hedge-fund.html
Billionaire  Carl Icahn ’s top
health-care investing deputy, Alex Denner, may leave to start
his own hedge fund, said two people with knowledge of the plan.  Denner, 42, senior managing director at  Icahn Enterprises
LP (IEP) , would open his firm by the end of the year, and Icahn, 75,
may invest in it, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private.  Since joining the activist Icahn’s New York-based firm in
2006, Denner has helped shuffle management teams, push for sales
or drive restructurings of at least six drug companies. He was
part of Icahn’s health-care investing team as the hedge fund
took stakes in Genzyme Corp. before its $20.1 billion sale to
Sanofi and MedImmune Inc. prior to its $15.2 billion acquisition
by  AstraZeneca Plc. (AZN)   Icahn wasn’t available to comment, according to his
assistant, who asked not to be named.  Icahn, who buys positions in companies he considers to be
underperforming and then pushes for change, said in March he no
longer wanted to oversee cash for clients because of concerns
about the economy and unrest in the  Middle East , according to a
letter filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investors had already withdrawn much of their capital from
Icahn’s funds, leaving $1.76 billion of fee-paying assets in the
$7 billion group.  Denner would be at least the second Icahn Enterprises
executive to depart since August 2010. Keith Meister, who was
vice chairman and principal executive officer, left in August
2010 to start his own hedge fund, Corvex Management LP in New
York.  Profit Agreement  On June 10, Icahn signed an agreement with Denner promising
him part of the profit generated by the hedge funds’ investment
in  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) , a New York-based drug company.
Under the agreement, Denner’s profit interest would equal 5
percent of overall gains after the funds receive an 8 percent
return, compounded annually, according to a June 17 regulatory
filing. Prior to the agreement, Denner was entitled to less than
2 percent of the profit generated by Icahn’s investment in the
drugmaker.  Denner is chairman of  Enzon Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ENZN) , in
Piscataway,  New Jersey , and a director of Weston, Massachusetts-
based  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  and San Diego-based  Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)   He gained his board seat at Biogen, the world’s biggest
maker of multiple-sclerosis medicines, in 2009, one of two Icahn
won in a proxy battle that year. He’s since helped install a
third Icahn-associated director, oversee the appointment of
Chief Executive Officer George Scangos and narrow the company’s
research focus in a restructuring that cut 650 jobs.  Forest Laboratories  Denner served on the board of New York-based ImClone
Systems Inc. from 2006 until its 2008 sale to Indianapolis
drugmaker Eli Lilly & Co. for $6.5 billion.  Icahn’s health-care enterprises haven’t always found
success. The investor expressed interest in buying Biogen in
2007 for $23 billion and, after the company put itself up for
sale in October of that year, withdrew his bid. He waged a proxy
fight in 2008 before gaining representation the next year.  An Icahn team led by Denner failed in August to gain
representation on the board of Forest Laboratories after the
company proposed three new directors of its own. Denner said at
the time he believed Forest “made some positive governance
changes because of our involvement.”  Before joining Icahn, Denner was a portfolio manager at
Morgan Stanley and hedge fund Viking Global Investors LP in  New
York . He holds an undergraduate degree from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in Cambridge and a Ph.D. from  Yale
University  in  New Haven , Connecticut.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  