-- 
Iceland Won’t Ever Bring Back Free-Floating Krona, Economy Minister Says

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-09-15T07:52:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/iceland-won-t-ever-bring-back-free-floating-krona-arnason-says.html
Iceland has no plans to revert to a
free floating krona after its banking collapse proved the
island’s currency is too small to survive without controls,
Economy Minister Arni Pall Arnason said.  “We will have to have some sort of restrictions on
completely free movement of the currency,” Arnason said in an
interview in Copenhagen yesterday. “The only scenario that we
can really be confident that should allow us completely full and
open access is the adoption of the euro.”  The island is still recovering from its 2008 banking
meltdown, which sent the krona down about 80 percent against the
euro offshore before the central bank halted the sell-off with
 capital controls . Since then, the country has used the currency
restrictions to protect its economy as it tries to appease
creditors seeking to recoup some of the $85 billion Iceland’s
banks defaulted on almost three years ago. The government wants
European Union accession talks, started in July last year, to
result in euro membership as early as 2015.  “Monetary policy will have to enable us to adopt the euro
if we decide to be members of the EU,” Arnason said before
speaking at the  Institute for Corporate Governance . “It will
have to give us as much stability as possible during the time up
until we adopt the euro.”  Krona Gains  Iceland’s krona has gained 3.2 percent against the euro
since the beginning of August, making it the fourth-best
performing emerging-market currency in the period. Since the end
of 2008, when capital controls were introduced, the krona is up
5.4 percent versus the euro. Gross domestic product will grow
2.8 percent this year, the central bank estimates. That compares
with 1.6 percent average growth for the 17 countries sharing the
euro, according to a May 13 estimate by the European Commission.  As central banks in  Europe  and the U.S. resort to crisis
easing to counter the fallout of the latest bout of market
turmoil, Iceland’s central bank has resumed monetary tightening.
The bank raised its main  interest rate  on Aug. 17 by a quarter
point to 4.5 percent, the first increase since its financial
industry collapsed three years ago. Policy makers are increasing
rates to buoy the krona as they ease the capital controls in
stages. The restrictions are preventing foreign investors from
taking out $4.3 billion in krona assets, the bank estimates.  Iceland’s government says it needs some form of foreign
exchange protection to avoid the kind of speculative currency
trades that exacerbated its banking crisis three years ago.  Currency Flows  Monthly krona flows peaked at 1.2 trillion kronur ($10.6
billion) in March 2008, seven months before Iceland’s biggest
banks failed. Gross domestic product was 1.5 trillion kronur for
that whole year. Flows surged as the central bank pursued a
tightening cycle that brought the benchmark rate to 15 percent
in March 2008. The rate reached 18 percent that year before the
bank finally imposed capital controls to protect the currency
from a sell-off. Monthly krona turnover in July 2011 was 5.6
billion kronur.  The government wants to impose tougher prudential rules
“to limit foreign operations of banks,” Arnason said. “There
will have to be some sort of limitations in place if our
independent  monetary policy  is to be a long-term solution.”  Iceland is looking for ways to maintain access to
international bond markets after completing a 33-month program
with the  International Monetary Fund  last month, Arnason said.
Though the June sale of $1 billion of five-year dollar bonds
helped ensure the island is funded through 2016, Iceland needs
to ensure it can tap markets at any time, he said.  Bond Markets  Given “these uncertain times now, when sovereign ratings
are quite unstable and sovereign bond markets are quite
unstable, we are always looking at options,” Arnason said. “We
have not made any decision on any new steps in that direction.”  Finance Minister Steingrimur J. Sigfusson said in July
Iceland was considering selling foreign-currency debt with
longer maturities after the June sale was twice oversubscribed.
Investors have rewarded the Atlantic island for delivering
austerity cuts that created trade surpluses and narrowed its
 budget deficit .  Iceland’s debt is graded junk at  Fitch Ratings , and carries
the lowest investment grade at  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s
Investors Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  