-- 
LightSquared Interferes With Military Devices, Lawmaker Says

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-09-15T22:37:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/lightsquared-interferes-with-military-gps-devices-lawmaker-says.html
Philip Falcone ’s LightSquared
wireless service caused “significant interference” to U.S.
military global-positioning receivers in tests, a lawmaker on
the House Armed Services Committee said.  General William Shelton, the head of the U.S. Air Force
Space Command, in a classified briefing said last week that
tests revealed interference, Representative  Michael Turner , an
Ohio Republican, said today at a hearing of the Subcommittee on
Strategic Forces, which he chairs.  Shelton in testimony today told the panel that specific
results of testing earlier this year on military receivers are
classified, “but the results were consistent” with tests that
showed interference to civilian receivers.  LightSquared envisions offering wholesale service through a
network of 40,000 base stations using airwaves previously
reserved mainly for satellites. Makers and users of GPS devices,
which rely on satellite signals, say LightSquared’s network
would disrupt navigation by planes, boats, tractors and
automobiles.  LightSquared faced testing earlier this year, and said it
would initially forgo using its airwaves nearest to GPS. It said
the move would cut interference to more than 99 percent of GPS
devices.  Deere & Co. (DE) , the largest farm-equipment maker, and GPS
maker  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN)  have said LightSquared’s new plan didn’t allay
concerns about disruption to GPS. Federal agencies including the
FCC have said interference concerns persist and more testing is
needed.  ‘No Higher Responsibility’  If LightSquared gains final approval, Defense Department
“training activities in the  United States  would come to an
end,” Turner said. He said troops rely on GPS to locate
military units, conduct search-and-rescue operations, and call
in close air support.  “I can think of no higher responsibility than to to make
sure U.S. military forces are fully trained and equipped before
they are deployed overseas to  Afghanistan ,  Iraq , or any place in
harm’s way,” Turner said.  LightSquared needs federal approval to commence commercial
service with its network that is to eventually offer high-speed
wireless  Internet service  to 260 million people. The Reston,
Virginia-based wireless company is backed by Falcone’s Harbinger
Capital Partners hedge fund, which has invested about $3 billion
in the venture.  ‘Substantial Financial Cost’  Redesigning GPS equipment to accommodate LightSquared
signals “if possible” would “involve substantial financial
cost and likely degrade the accuracy of high performance
receivers,” Shelton said in his testimony.  Turner said FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  refused to
appear at today’s hearing. The subcommittee agreed to accept the
chairman’s designee at the hearing, Tammy Sun, an FCC
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “We never said that the chairman would not appear,” Sun
said.  LightSquared wasn’t invited to testify at the hearing,
Jeffrey Carlisle, the company’s executive vice president, said
in a letter today to Turner and Representative Loretta Sanchez,
of  California , the subcommittee’s top Democrat.  “The issue at hand is caused because GPS receivers look
into LightSquared’s spectrum,” Carlisle wrote in the letter
distributed by e-mail. LightSquared’s power level has “been
authorized for years,” Carlisle wrote.  ‘Don’t Blame GPS’  “Don’t blame GPS,” Representative Thomas Petri, a
Wisconsin Republican who chairs the Subcommittee on Aviation of
the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure,
separately wrote today.  “I would suggest that it is LightSquared using a part of
the spectrum for inappropriate purposes that has led to this
dilemma,” Petri said in a letter to LightSquared Chief
Executive Officer Sanjiv Ahuja. “GPS was located on this part
of the spectrum long before LightSquared devised its plan.”  Turner asked the House Committee on Government Reform and
Oversight to investigate communications between the White House
and LightSquared officials as political donations were made.  Falcone and his wife Lisa Maria Falcone each gave $30,400
to the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee in 2009, and
have donated lesser sums to Republicans, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics.  “We cannot afford to have federal telecommunication
policy, especially where it affects national security, to be
made in the same way this White House has parceled out a half
billion dollars in loan guarantees to the failed Solyndra
Corporation, a large political campaign contributor of the
president,” Turner said.  $535 Million  Solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC won a $535 million federal
loan guarantee in September 2009. The company filed for
 bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6, and the FBI raided its offices
two days later.  The oversight committee received Turner’s request today and
was reviewing it, Becca Watkins, a spokeswoman for the panel,
said in an interview.  It’s “ludicrous to suggest LightSquared’s success depends
on political connections,” Ahuja said in an e-mail. Falcone
“has given to candidates in both political parties in the last
eight years, with two-thirds of his contributions going to
Republicans.”  “Any suggestion that LightSquared has run roughshod over
the regulatory process is contradicted by the reality of eight
long years spent gaining approvals,” Ahuja said.  “The Federal Communications Commission is an independent
agency with its own standards and procedures for considering
these types of decisions and we respect their process,” Eric
Schultz, a White House spokesman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  