-- 
IMF’s Lagarde Calls for ‘Bold’ EU Action to Ease Fiscal Crisis

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 
2011-09-15T02:10:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/imf-s-lagarde-calls-for-bold-eu-action-to-ease-fiscal-crisis.html
International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  called the path to faster
global growth “narrow” and urged European officials take
coordinated steps to restore confidence in their ability to
manage government finances.  “There is a way out of that situation if nations, if
governments, decide to take collective bold action rapidly,”
Lagarde said via teleconference to an Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation event today in  San Francisco . “There is a path to
recovery -- it’s a narrow one -- but we can get on with it.”  After almost two years combating the sovereign debt crisis
focused on Greece, Ireland and Portugal, European policy makers
have yet to reassure investors demanding higher yields from
nations such as Spain and Italy. The cost of insuring European
sovereign and financial debt rose to records this week on
mounting concern a default by  Greece  will trigger losses for
banks holding the nation’s bonds.  "It is a job that will have to be handled and achieved
collectively," Lagarde, a former French finance minister, said
about Europe’s challenge. "Governments are going to have to
tackle the issue of long-term deficits, of excessive debt, by
having a fiscal policy that in the medium term in particular
will deliver restored public finances -- that’s priority No. 1."  Finance chiefs from Brazil, Russia,  India ,  China  and South
Africa plan to meet in  Washington  on Sept. 22 to discuss ways to
help Europe. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  is
expected to urge his European counterparts to step up their
crisis-fighting efforts when he meets with them this week.  Geithner’s Trip  Geithner will travel to  Poland  Sept. 16 to participate in a
meeting of European government finance officials trying to
contain the region’s debt crisis. He’s scheduled to attend the
session of  Europe ’s Economic and Financial Affairs Council, or
Ecofin, and the Eurofi Financial Forum in Wroclaw, Poland.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps tied to 15 governments reached 354.5 basis points
earlier this week, up from 218.7 basis points at the start of
this quarter, according to CMA prices. The Markit iTraxx
Financial Index of swaps on the senior debt of 25 banks has
jumped 135 basis points to 287 and touched 314.8.  Lagarde, who took the helm of the Washington-based IMF in
July, also said advanced economies are facing slower growth than
the lender expected earlier this year, while a risk in emerging
nations includes the "overheating" effect of inflation.  “The emerging markets are also at risk and they will be
suffering as a result of the slow growth in the advanced
economies,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  