-- 
IMF Says to Lend Ivory Coast $614 Million Amid ‘Faster’ Post-War Recovery

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-09-15T16:49:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/imf-to-lend-ivory-coast-614-million-amid-faster-recovery-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
will give  Ivory Coast , the West African nation emerging from a
violent political crisis, a loan of $614 million under the
lender’s extended-credit facility program, according to a
statement.  The money, which may be approved by the Washington-based
bank’s board in early November, comes as the economy of the
world’s biggest cocoa producer recovers “faster than expected,”
Doris Ross, the head of the IMF’s mission in Ivory Coast, told
reporters in Abidjan today, where the statement was distributed.  Gross domestic product will probably contract 5.8 percent
this year, Ross said, after the crisis that lasted for almost
five months crippled the country’s economy. Exports of cocoa and
coffee stopped, most banks closed their branches and consumers
stayed home amid curfews that were enacted after  Laurent Gbagbo 
refused to cede power to  Alassane Ouattara  following a November
presidential election. As many as 3,000 people were killed in
clashes, according to the  International Criminal Court .  The economy is expected to “move into an expansion phase in
2012, growing by 8 to 9 percent,” Ross said. Growth is forecast
at about 6 percent for 2013 and 2014, she said.  Ivory Coast’s administration, led by Ouattara since his
inauguration in May, needs to implement planned economic
reforms, ensure “continued improvement” in the country’s
security situation and hold “successful” parliamentary
elections, Ross said.  Cocoa-industry changes are also needed to enable Ivory
Coast to reach the so-called completion point of the IMF’s
Heavily Indebted Poor Country relief program. Last year, the
lender said the slow pace of cocoa reforms was stalling the
country’s eligibility for $3 billion in debt relief.  The  World Bank  pledged $150 million in budget support for
Ivory Coast, as well as a $50 million grant for youth
employment, Emmanuel N. Gankam, the lender’s official in charge
of operations, said in Abidjan today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  