-- 
Indian Stocks Advance Amid Rate Speculation, Europe Optimism

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-09-15T11:19:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/indian-stocks-advance-amid-rate-speculation-europe-optimism.html
India ’s benchmark stock index
climbed to a one-week high on speculation slowing growth may
prompt the central bank to pause raising rates at its meeting
tomorrow and as concerns over Europe’s debt crisis eased.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the nation’s biggest truck-maker, surged
6.1 percent. India’s food inflation rose 9.47 percent in the
week ended Sept. 3, the slowest pace in four weeks, government
data showed today, though the reading stayed above 9 percent for
a sixth straight week. Asian stocks gained after French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
said  Greece  will stay in the  euro zone , easing concern over a
Greek default.  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the largest lender, rallied
3.9 percent.  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , the biggest developer, rose 4.2 percent.  “The gains seem to have come on account of short-covering
and speculation that the central bank may not raise rates
tomorrow,” said S.P. Tulsian, an  independent  market analyst and
a former National Stock Exchange member. “All the major index
gainers are stocks that are sensitive to  interest rates  and have
lately been beaten down.”  The BSE India Sensitive Index added 166.94, or 1 percent,
to 16,876.54 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai, a second day of
gains and its highest level since Sept. 8. The 30-stock gauge
swung between gains and losses at least eight times intraday.
The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange jumped
1.3 percent to 5,075.70, while its September futures traded at
5,097.15. The BSE-200 Index gained 1.1 percent to 2,089.23.  Companies on the Sensex trade at 14.2 times estimated
profits, within 10 percent of the lowest level since April 2009,
and down from 21.5 times in March 2010. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index is valued at 9.9 times.  Greece’s Future  Asian equities rose after Sarkozy and Merkel’s comments and
also as U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said “there
is no chance that the major countries of  Europe  will let their
institutions be at risk in the eyes of the market.” The MSCI
Asia Pacific Index gained 1.4 percent to 117.89.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou yesterday committed
to meet deficit-reduction targets demanded as a condition for an
international bailout, according to statements distributed by
Athens and Paris. Sarkozy and Merkel “are convinced that the
future of Greece is in the euro zone,” the French statement
said, easing concern the monetary union may collapse.  “The European markets will have to eventually accept that
Greece will not be able to pay back,” Vetri Subramaniam, the
Mumbai-based head of equities at Religare Asset Management Co.,
said in a phone interview yesterday. “The impact will be more
pronounced in European financial markets than ours.”  Worst Performer  Tata Motors surged 6.1 percent to 151.20 rupees, the most
since Aug. 10. The stock is still the worst performer on the
Sensex this year, having lost 42 percent of its value.  State
Bank  rallied 3.9 percent to 1,898.05 rupees, the biggest gain
since June 24.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , India’s largest private lender,
climbed 1.4 percent to 876.20 rupees, while DLF jumped 4.2
percent to 208.20 rupees, the most since Aug. 10.  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the nation’s largest consumer
goods maker, dropped 1 percent to 349.25 rupees after  Marico
Ltd. (MRCO) , a maker of hair oils and skin-care products, said it may
miss analysts’ earnings forecasts for the next few quarters as
rising raw-material costs and inflation dent profit margins.
Marico’s stock plummeted 10 percent to 143.10 rupees, the
steepest decline since January 2008.  The Sensex has tumbled 18 percent this year amid concerns a
slowdown in the global economy will erode company earnings
already threatened by interest-rate increases. The gauge lost
8.4 percent last month, the worst August in at least a decade,
on signs Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis is spreading and after
 Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating on U.S. credit.  Net Sellers  Overseas investors sold a net 3.7 billion rupees ($78.5
million) of local stocks on Sept. 13, reducing their investment
in equities this year to 15.4 billion rupees, according to data
on the  website  of the market regulator. They withdrew a net $2.4
billion in August, the most since October 2008.  The  Reserve Bank  of India has boosted rates 11 times since
the start of 2010 to temper living costs that are rising the
fastest among the so-called BRICS nations. Inflation climbed to
a 13-month high of 9.78 percent in August, beating the median of
25 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey for a 9.64 percent
increase, trade ministry data showed yesterday.  Monthly inflation may have reached a peak in August and may
moderate gradually, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said in a
statement today in  New Delhi .  “There is speculation that the central bank may defer a
rate increase tomorrow as the impact of its previous moves is
felt on growth,” said Sunil Pachisia, vice president at Mumbai-
based brokerage Pratibhuti Viniyog Ltd.  ‘Persistent Inflation’  India’s $1.7 trillion economy grew 7.7 percent in the June
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace of expansion in
six quarters. Industrial output growth slowed to 3.3 percent in
July, the least in almost two years, signaling consumer demand
is waning in  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  Still, “given the RBI’s commitment to battle persistent
high inflation, there will be further monetary tightening in the
remaining months of FY2011 until there is credible evidence of
inflation trending to the RBI’s target range,” the  Asian
Development Bank  said yesterday, as it cut the nation’s growth
forecast for the current financial year.  India’s economy  may expand 7.9 percent in the year ending
March 31, lower than the 8.2 percent growth estimated in April,
the ADB said in a report. The RBI may raise its repurchase rate
by 25 basis points to 8.25 percent at a meeting tomorrow,
according to 12 of 13 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  In his last policy decision on July 26, RBI Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao raised the central bank’s repurchase rate by
half a percentage point and predicted inflation by the end of
March will be 7 percent, a percentage point higher than his
previous guidance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  