-- 
India Stock Futures Rise as Europe Optimism Offsets Rate Concern

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-09-15T02:50:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/india-stock-futures-rise-as-europe-optimism-offsets-rate-concern.html
India ’s stock-index futures rose,
signaling gains for benchmark indexes, as investors weighed
easing concern over  Europe ’s debt crisis against the prospect of
accelerating inflation and higher  interest rates .  SGX S&P CNX Nifty Index futures for September delivery
advanced 0.4 percent to 5,047.5 at 10:31 a.m. in  Singapore . The
underlying S&P CNX Nifty Index climbed 1.4 percent to 5,012.55
yesterday. The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose 1.5
percent to 16,709.60, the steepest gain in two weeks.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said yesterday they’re convinced debt-ridden
Greece will remain in the euro area. Any optimism over European
debt may be stifled by interest-rate concerns amid economist
predictions the central bank will raise borrowing costs
tomorrow. The nation’s wholesale price index released yesterday
showed inflation accelerated to a 13-month high in August. A
weekly gauge of food inflation is due today.  “High inflation will continue for the next three to four
weeks,”  Arun Kejriwal , director of Kejriwal Research &
Investment Services Pvt., said in a phone interview. “The
inflation figures are going out of hand. A rate hike of 25 basis
points could happen on Friday. Food inflation is not coming
down.”  The Sensex has tumbled 19 percent this year amid concerns a
slowdown in the global economy will erode company earnings
already threatened by interest-rate increases. The gauge lost
8.4 percent in August, the biggest monthly decline since
January, on signs Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is spreading
and after  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating on U.S. credit.  Greece’s Future  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou yesterday committed
to meet deficit-reduction targets demanded as a condition for an
international bailout, according to statements distributed by
Athens and Paris. Sarkozy and Merkel “are convinced that the
future of  Greece  is in the  euro zone ,” the French statement
said, easing concern the monetary union may collapse.  “The European markets will have to eventually accept that
Greece will not be able to pay back,” Vetri Subramaniam, the
Mumbai-based head of equities at Religare Asset Management Co.,
said in a phone interview. “The impact will be more pronounced
in European financial markets than ours.”  The  Reserve Bank of India  is expected to raise its
repurchase rate by 25 basis points to 8.25 percent at a policy
meeting tomorrow, according to 12 of 13 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The bank has boosted rates 11 times since
the start of 2010 to curb the rising cost of living.  Rising Inflation  India’s benchmark wholesale-price index inflation quickened
to 9.78 percent in August, from 9.22 percent the previous month,
the commerce ministry said yesterday. That exceeded the median
of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey for a 9.64 percent
increase.  “Inflation numbers will remain a concern,” Religare’s
Subramaniam said. “Our sense is that there will be some growth
moderation, because of which there could be a change in monetary
policy to support growth.”  India’s $1.7 trillion economy, where the  World Bank  says
more than 75 percent of the 1.2-billion population lives on less
than $2 a day, expanded 7.7 percent in the three months ended
June from a year earlier, the slowest pace of expansion in six
quarters. Slowing growth may prompt the  Reserve Bank  to pause
raising rates, the Press Trust cited Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee as saying on Sept. 5.  Companies in the Sensex trade for 14 times estimated
profits, within 10 percent of the lowest level since April 2009,
and down from 21.5 times in March 2010.  “With valuations below average, one should take a
constructive view toward equities,” Religare’s Subramaniam
said. “There is an opportunity for stock picking in all
sectors.”  -- With assistance from Tanya Ashreena. Editors: Darren Boey,
Allen Wan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  