-- 
India Eases Overseas-Borrowing Rules, Allows Companies to Raise Yuan Debt

-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 
2011-09-15T18:31:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/india-raises-overseas-borrowing-limit-under-automatic-route.html
India  eased overseas borrowing
 rules  and allowed companies to raise as much as $1 billion in
yuan debt as higher local funding costs threaten to choke growth
in Asia’s third-biggest economy.  The government yesterday decided to raise the cap on
foreign borrowings without approvals by 50 percent to $750
million, and said it may permit the overall limit to exceed $30
billion “on a case-by-case” basis, R. Gopalan, secretary in
the Department of Economic Affairs in the  finance ministry , told
reporters in  New Delhi . Companies building airports, roads,
ports and power plants will benefit from the new rules, he said.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh aims to double spending on
infrastructure to $1 trillion in the five years to March 2017 to
accelerate growth to more than 10 percent and lift living
standards in the nation. Eleven interest-rate increases by the
 Reserve Bank  of India since March 2010 drove average five-year
borrowing costs for top-rated local companies to an 18-month
high of 9.78 percent on June 1.  “Including all hedging costs, there’s still an arbitrage
of 1 to 2 percentage points,” said A. Issac George, chief
financial officer at  GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. (GVKP)  “This will
certainly help at a time domestic  interest rates  are threatening
to hurt growth.”  Slowing Growth  Gross domestic product is likely to increase 8 percent in
the year to March, according to central bank estimates, slower
than 8.5 percent last year. Factory output grew 3.3 percent from
a year earlier in July, the slowest pace in 21 months, according
to data provided by the New Delhi-based Central Statistical
Organisation.  The extra yield firms need to pay for five-year debt over
similar-maturity government securities has risen to 93 basis
points from as low as 56 on Dec. 6, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Indian companies sold more than $9 billion of non-rupee
bonds to investors abroad in 2011, twice the amount in the same
period last year, Bloomberg data show. They borrowed $14.6
billion of loans denominated in international currencies this
year, a 17 percent decline.  The government also decided to allow companies to use 25
percent of the proceeds raised abroad to repay existing debt,
Gopalan said. A $10 billion limit on foreign ownership of the
nation’s sovereign debt remained unchanged, he said.  “The decisions taken are game changers as far as Indian
companies are concerned,” Gopalan said.  Yuan Funds  Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services Ltd., an Indian
lender to road projects, plans to raise $100 million from yuan-
denominated bonds and has hired bankers to manage the sale, a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said Sept. 9, asking
not to be identified as the matter is private.  Many companies sought yuan as one of the currencies for
overseas debt, Gopalan said.  Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) ,  Adani Power
Ltd. (ADANI) ,  SRM Energy Ltd. (SRME)  and Moser Baer Projects Pvt. have said
they’re talking to  China ’s export banks for loans, after
billionaire Anil Ambani’s  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  borrowed $1.1
billion from China Development Bank Corp. in December.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the world’s
largest bank by market value, may provide services for Indian
customers seeking to raise yuan funds from the sale of so-called
dim-sum bonds, President Yang Kaisheng said in Mumbai yesterday.  “More multinational companies will feel comfortable
tapping this market as the Chinese government continues to
clarify its procedures for fund raising and remitting those
proceeds into China,” Michael Lam, the Hong-Kong-based director
of fixed-income capital markets for  Asia  at Deutsche Bank AG,
said at a Euromoney conference in  Singapore  yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in New Delhi at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net ;
Shelley Smith at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net  