-- 
Indian Oil Raises Gasoline Prices for Second Time in 4 Months

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-09-15T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/indian-oil-raises-gasoline-prices-for-second-time-in-4-months.html
Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s
biggest refiner, raised local gasoline prices for the second
time in four months after the rupee’s decline increased the cost
of buying crude oil and widened losses from fuel sales.  The company increased the price of the automobile fuel by
3.14 rupees (7 cents) a liter in  New Delhi  starting today,
Finance Director P.K. Goyal said by telephone yesterday.
Gasoline in the nation’s capital cost 63.70 rupees a liter
before the increase, according to Indian Oil’s website.  “It’s the rupee’s weakness that’s pushing up our losses
from gasoline,” Goyal said. “Losses should be more or less
covered after this increase.”  The currency has slumped 7.3 percent after touching a
three-year high on July 27, and weakened past 48 per dollar
yesterday, the first time since September 2009. It has pared
losses since, on speculation the central bank stemmed the slide.
An increase in gasoline prices would add to  India ’s inflation,
which accelerated to the highest level in more than a year in
August.  “The current inflation situation is pretty disturbing, and
this will add to that a little bit,” said Avinash Gupta, the
New Delhi-based vice-president of equity research at Globe
Capital Market Ltd. “But the increase is necessary to cut the
company’s losses, reduce the government’s subsidy bill and work
towards achieving the government’s financial goals.”  Fiscal Deficit  The government plans to reduce its fiscal deficit to 4.6
percent of gross domestic product in the year ending March 31,
the lowest in four years. Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  has
assumed a 38 percent drop in energy subsidies for this financial
year.  Indian Oil climbed 1.9 percent to 316.6 rupees in  Mumbai 
yesterday, compared with a 1 percent increase in the benchmark
Sensitive Index of the Bombay Stock Exchange. The stock has
declined 7.5 percent this year.  The Indian currency rose 0.2 percent to 45.56 against the
dollar yesterday, reversing an eight-day losing streak. The
rupee has dropped 3.2 percent this month following a 4.3 percent
fall last month. Brent crude oil prices have increased 0.1
percent this month.  India’s inflation climbed to 9.78 percent in August, the
commerce ministry said yesterday. Gasoline has a 1.1 percent
weight in the wholesale  price index  and diesel 4.7 percent,
according to the ministry.  The New Delhi-based explorer previously  increased  the price
of gasoline by 5 rupees a liter in May as crude costs rose,
according to the refiner’s website.  State-run refiners are free to sell gasoline at market
rates, while the government controls the prices of diesel,
liquefied petroleum gas and kerosene. The three state refiners
currently lose 2.3 billion rupees a day on fuel sales, excluding
gasoline, according to data on the oil ministry’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  