-- 
Indian Builders Chase Costly PE Fund Loans, Knight Frank Says

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-09-15T01:07:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/indian-builders-chase-costly-pe-fund-loans-knight-frank-says.html
Indian developers will borrow about
$1 billion from private equity funds this fiscal year at rates
higher than banks, which are cutting loans to builders,
according to  Knight Frank  LLP.  Buyout funds have ploughed 12 billion rupees ($252 million)
into developers’ projects in the past three months, and may
invest as much as 35 billion rupees by March 31, said Amit
Goenka, national director of capital transactions at the Indian
unit of London-based Knight Frank. Private equity deals are
getting transacted at internal rates of returns, or the yield of
the investment, of 25 percent to 30 percent.  “The cash-flow situation is fairly precarious with most
developers,” Goenka said in an interview in Mumbai. “Private
equity is the last resort for funding when developers can’t get
money anywhere else.”  Developers are facing a liquidity squeeze after sales dried
up and banks and finance companies stopped funding them, Goenka
said Sept. 13. They also are struggling with surging borrowing
costs after  India ’s central bank raised  interest rates  11 times
since March 2010 in an attempt to tame surging inflation, making
money developers need more expensive.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will probably raise rates by a
quarter of a percentage point at its policy meeting tomorrow,
according to 11 of 12 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Soaring Rates  The combined net debt of India’s 11 listed developers rose
15 percent in the 12 months through June to 385 billion rupees,
according to Mumbai-based Edelweiss Securities Ltd. The nation’s
real-estate companies are selling assets as interest rates as
high as 30 percent and a slowing economy make it harder for them
to repay debt.  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , the biggest developer, is planning to raise as
much as 100 billion rupees from sales of hotels and land after
interest costs jumped almost 10-fold since 2008 to a record,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The Indian real estate market is beset by reduced growth
expectations” and a shortage of cash, Ramesh Nair, Mumbai-based
managing director for western India at Jones Lang LaSalle India
said last month. “Developers will be under pressure to reduce
their debt. Projects of troubled developers will be acquired by
other players.”  Parsvnath Developers Ltd. (PARSV)  raised 5.2 billion rupees from
private equity funds including SUN-Apollo India Real Estate Fund
LLC, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Red Fort Capital, the company said
in May. Ansal Properties & Infrastructure Ltd. raised 2 billion
rupees from Red Fort for a residential project in Gurgaon in
February.  Demand Slumps  Demand for homes in Mumbai, India’s most expensive real-
estate market, fell to a 30-month low in the three months though
June, according to Liases Foras Real Estate Rating & Research
Pvt., a real-estate research company.  Sales fell 11 percent from the previous quarter to 8
million square feet, the lowest since the three months ended
December 2008, while  New Delhi  and its surrounding areas had a
19 percent drop to 22 million square feet, according to Liases
Foras. Unsold units climbed to all-time highs in both cities.  Private equity funds have bought assets of developers worth
about 25 billion rupees this year, Goenka said. Developers will
need to repay 260 billion rupees of debt this fiscal year, he
estimates.  “Markets are going to be very tough,” Goenka said. “If
developers are declared non-performing assets by banks there
will be a huge credit risk. Private equity too might shy away
from funding them if they are declared non-performing assets.
That could end up being a deal breaker for funding them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in  Mumbai  at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  