-- 
India May Fall Short of Spending on Roads, Ports, Ahluwalia Says

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-09-15T07:49:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/india-may-fall-short-of-spending-on-roads-ports-ahluwalia-says.html
India  may fall short of its target
for spending on roads, ports and power projects in the five
years through March 2012 after failing to complete planned
projects, the prime minister’s top economic aide said.  “Total investment will probably fall short of the $500
billion that we talked about,”  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , deputy
chairman of India’s Planning Commission, said at a conference in
New Delhi today. “I would not be surprised if it is 10 percent
or even 12 percent short.”  Missing the investment target may hamper Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s aim of boosting economic growth to 10 percent,
which is needed to lift 828 million Indians, living on less than
$2 a day, out of poverty. India is ranked 86 out of 142 nations
for its infrastructure, according to the  World Economic Forum ’s
 Global Competitiveness Index .  “There is a need to do more to attract investment,” said
N.R. Bhanumurthy, a New Delhi-based economist at the National
Institute of Public Finance and Policy. “If funding is a
problem, more institutions should be created to cater to this
segment.”  At least two financial institutions with a corpus of $10
billion each to lend to infrastructure projects may start
operations this year, Ahluwalia said. The government has doubled
the target for infrastructure spending to $1 trillion for the
five years to March 2017, even as it is expected to fall short
in the current five-year period.  The government cut projected investment in docks, cranes
and wharves last year to 407 billion rupees ($8.5 billion) for
the five years ending March 2012, half the original goal.
Funding for road and bridges was lowered to 2.79 trillion rupees
because of fewer available assignments, according to a planning
document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  