-- 
Indonesia, Bangladesh ‘Winners’ as China Costs Rise, KPMG Says

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-09-15T03:32:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/indonesia-bangladesh-winners-as-china-costs-rise-kpmg-says.html
Indonesian footwear manufacturers
and Bangladeshi textile makers have been two of the “biggest
winners” in the past year as  China  becomes less competitive in
low-cost manufacturing, according to a report by KPMG LLP.  While China is still the major supplier for consumer
electronics and furniture, apparel and footwear production has
shifted to countries across  Asia , the accounting firm said in a
report released today.  Indonesia  posted a 42 percent jump in
footwear exports in 2010 to $2.1 billion while Bangladesh’s
textile exports rose 43 percent to more than $18 billion in the
12 months ended in July 2011, the report said.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao is targeting an increase in
minimum wages of 13 percent a year through 2015 to help boost
consumption and narrow the wealth gap, according to the nation’s
12th Five-Year Plan that starts this year. The government has
also allowed a faster appreciation of its currency against the
 U.S. dollar  to ease pressure from imported inflation.  “Sourcing goods in China purely because of ultra-low costs
is a thing of the past,” Nick Debnam, a partner at KPMG China,
said in a release today. “There will still be good reason to
invest more in younger and cheaper countries such as Bangladesh,
Vietnam, Cambodia and Pakistan.”  In addition to cost comparisons, an aging population and
labor shortages in some regions in China are also driving
companies to source products from other countries in the region,
KPMG said.  Still, Asia’s biggest economy remains competitive for some
goods due to its investment, infrastructure and skills, allowing
productivity gains to offset higher labor costs, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong  at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  