-- 
Indonesia Preparing Stimulus to Protect Growth, Government Says

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 
2011-09-15T10:52:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/indonesia-preparing-for-possible-fiscal-stimulus-next-year.html
The Indonesian government is
preparing a stimulus package that it may implement in the first
half of 2012 should the global economy worsen and hurt growth in
 Southeast Asia ’s largest economy, the government said today.  “The stimulus will be a combination of policy and fresh
money” to boost consumption and investment, Bambang
Brodjonegoro, head of fiscal policy at the Ministry of Finance,
told reporters at parliament in Jakarta after the ministry and
the central bank met lawmakers today. The government will
“respond to maintain growth,” Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  told lawmakers.  The move underscores the threat to  Asia ’s economies from
 Europe ’s debt crisis and a weakening U.S. recovery, which
prompted the Asian Development Bank to cut its growth estimates
for the region yesterday.  Indonesia ’s central bank signaled this
week it may join Brazil and Turkey among emerging markets
cutting  interest rates , and stepped in to halt losses in the
rupiah yesterday after it dropped as much as 2.6 percent.  “The global economy has slowed down and it will continue,
affecting Indonesia’s growth,” said  Anton Gunawan , chief
economist at PT Bank Danamon Indonesia. “To stimulate growth,
the government needs to conduct fiscal stimulus to combat the
slowdown. Fiscal stimulus is also for confidence building.”  Growth Target  Fiscal stimulus and monetary policy would help the economy
reach a growth rate of 6.7 percent next year, Bank Indonesia
Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono told parliament today.  Policy makers are ready to “adjust the rate and mix
monetary policy toward loosening” if price gains slow and the
economy expands less than expected due to a global slowdown,
Perry Warjiyo, the bank’s director of economic research, said
earlier this week.  Sarwono said yesterday  Bank Indonesia  “intervened in the
rupiah and bond markets,” while traders said authorities in
 India  and  South Korea  also sold dollars. Nations from Malaysia
to South Korea refrained from raising their key rates last week.  The rupiah fell 0.1 percent to 8,803 per dollar as of 3:45
p.m. in Jakarta today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
after gaining by as much as 0.7 percent earlier. It touched
8,939 yesterday, the weakest level since Feb. 14.  The yield on the government’s 8.25 percent security due
July 2021 was unchanged at 7.02 percent today, according midday
prices from the Inter-Dealer Market Association. The rate has
climbed 61 basis points this week.  Rupiah, Stocks Fall  The Jakarta Composite index fell 24.70 points, or 0.7
percent to 3,774.33, dropping for a fifth straight day.  Indonesia kept its reference rate unchanged at 6.75 percent
for a seventh month on Sept. 8 while allowing lower interbank
lending rates as concern the global recovery is faltering
prompted policy makers to move to protect growth. The last
increase in Indonesia’s benchmark rate was a 0.25 percentage-
point move in February.  Turkey ’s central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark
interest rate to a record-low 5.75 percent in August and took
separate steps to support the lira, which weakened to a two-year
low on the news. The Brazilian central bank cut its key rate to
12 percent.  The Asian Development Bank cut its 2011 growth forecast for
Asia excluding  Japan  to 7.5 percent from an April estimate of
7.8 percent even as it raised the region’s inflation forecast to
5.8 percent.  While Indonesia’s inflation accelerated in August, economic
expansion has eased to about 6.5 percent in the first half of
2011 from 6.89 percent late last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  