-- 
Industrial Production in U.S. Unexpectedly Rose in August for Fourth Month

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-15T14:17:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/industrial-production-in-u-s-unexpectedly-rose-in-august-for-fourth-month.html
Industrial production in the U.S.
unexpectedly rose in August, signaling manufacturing will
support the world’s largest economy.  Output at factories, mines and utilities climbed 0.2
percent after a 0.9 percent gain in July, figures from the
 Federal Reserve  showed today. Economists had forecast no change,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.
Factory production, which makes up 75 percent of the total,
advanced 0.5 percent.  Overseas demand and capital spending by American companies
may keep assembly lines busy and boost manufacturing, which led
the recovery from the recession. At the same time, unemployment
above 9 percent and the lack of jobs is limiting sales, one
reason factories may find it harder to gain speed.  “Manufacturing will continue to expand,” said Kurt
Rankin, an economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in
Pittsburgh, who accurately projected the gain in industrial
production. “Emerging markets are still growing, and that’s
giving an opportunity for exports of U.S.-manufactured goods.”  Stocks rallied after the  European Central Bank  announced
new liquidity measures in cooperation with the Federal Reserve.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1 percent to 1,201.04 at
10:12 a.m. in New York.  Other reports today showed consumer prices climbed in
August, jobless claims jumped last week and manufacturing in the
New York and Philadelphia regions shrank in September.  More Inflation  The cost of living rose 0.4 percent, more than forecast,
after a 0.5 percent gain in July, according to a report from the
Labor Department. Costs minus fuel and food rose 0.2 percent for
a second month.  Applications for  unemployment benefits  climbed by 11,000 to
428,000 in the week ended Sept. 10 that included the Labor Day
holiday, another Labor Department report showed. The number of
claims was the highest since the end of June, underscoring the
risk of further weakness in the labor market.  The Fed Bank of  New York ’s general economic index dropped
to minus 8.8, the weakest reading since November, from minus 7.7
in August, the branch of the central bank said. The Fed  Bank of
Philadelphia’s index rose to minus 17.5 in September from minus
30.7 the prior month. Readings less than zero signal
contraction.  The regional reports overstated the degree of the slowdown
in manufacturing last month. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s national figure showed factories continued to
expand in August while the New York and Philadelphia measures
slumped.  Economist Estimates  Estimates of the 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from an increase of 0.4 percent in industrial production to a
drop of 0.4 percent. Manufacturing accounts for about 12 percent
of the economy.  Today’s production report showed factory output
climbed after increasing 0.6 percent in July.  Capacity utilization, which measures the amount of a plant
that is in use, rose to 77.4 percent from a revised 77.3 percent
in July that was lower than previously estimated. The gauge
compares with the average of 79.5 percent over the past 20
years.  Mining production, which includes oil drilling, increased
1.2 percent. Utility output dropped 3 percent, as temperatures
moderated from the prior month, after a 2.8 percent gain.  Automakers are recovering after a temporary shortage of
parts following the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  that
constrained sales and production.  The output of motor vehicles and parts increased 1.7
percent after a 4.5 percent jump a month earlier, today’s report
showed. Excluding autos and parts, manufacturing climbed 0.4
percent after a 0.3 percent July increase.  Business Investment  Production of business equipment increased 0.7 percent
after rising 1.1 percent in July, a sign that investment in
computers and communications gear continues to climb.  Not all technology makers are optimistic about the outlook
for demand. Dallas-based Texas Instruments Inc., the largest
maker of analog chips, said on Sept. 8 that third-quarter sales
may fall short of prior forecasts, citing a slump in orders for
electronics components from customers across its product lines.
Two days earlier, chipmaker Altera Corp. said sales may fall
this quarter from the prior period, while it previously
predicted a gain.  “Since this downturn is macro-driven, we really have no
insight as to how long it will take,” Texas Instruments Vice
President  Ron Slaymaker  said on a Sept. 8 conference call.
“Orders are weak and we expect, in total, orders will be down
from the second quarter.”  Concern about the flagging economy is one reason Fed policy
makers may take additional steps to spur growth when they meet
this month.  Bernanke’s View  The recovery “has been much less robust than we had
hoped,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a Sept. 8 speech
in  Minneapolis . At the same time, compared with the household
sector, “the business sector generally presents a more upbeat
picture,” he said.  Demand from faster-growing foreign markets is backstopping
work at factories. The dollar fell 3.3 percent in the year ended
August against a basket of currencies from the major trading
partners of the U.S., making American-made goods more attractive
abroad. Exports climbed to a record $178 billion in July as
companies shipped capital goods and automobiles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  