-- 
Investec Earnings ‘Under Pressure’ as Assets, Loans Decline

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-09-15T09:25:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/investec-earnings-under-pressure-as-assets-loans-decline-1-.html
Investec Plc (INVP) , which owns a bank and
money manager in  South Africa  and the U.K., said first-half
profit will be “under pressure” amid impaired loans in
 Australia , reduced lending levels and declining stock markets.  So-called core loans and advances, which exclude the effect
of currency advances, are “marginally down” to 18.6 billion
pounds ($29.3 billion), and third-party assets under management
decreased 4 percent to 85.6 billion pounds as a result of “weak
markets,” the lender said today. Operating profit in the U.K.
and South Africa is expected to rise from the previous year,
Investec said.  “Operating conditions have been more difficult than
originally anticipated,” said Investec, which reaches the end
of its fiscal first half on Sept. 30. “Earnings from principal
activities have been under pressure,” while “the Australian
business remains affected by elevated levels of impairments,”
it said.  On Sept. 9, Investec agreed to buy  Evolution Group Plc (EVG)  in a
transaction valuing the British stockbroker at 233.2 million
pounds, giving the Johannesburg- and London-based company more
bulk in private-client wealth management and investment banking
in the U.K. Investec, which was founded in Johannesburg in 1974
and listed its shares in  London  in 2002, still holds the
greatest proportion of its assets in South Africa.  “Fundamentals for Investec remain strong over the medium
term, although some short-term disappointment appears possible
due to weak economic conditions,” Mervin Naidoo, an analyst at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in Johannesburg, said last month. He rates
Investec “buy.”  Investec shares rose 1.9 pence, or 0.5 percent, to 411.9
pence at 10:11 a.m. in London trading. Investec’s stock has
dropped about 22 percent this year, outperforming the 34 percent
decline by the 46-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  