-- 
IPhone Orders Seen Making Broadcom Top Apple Beneficiary: Tech

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-09-15T21:45:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/iphone-5-rush-orders-seen-making-broadcom-biggest-apple-beneficiary-techi.html
Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  stands out as one of
the biggest beneficiaries from orders from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , whose
need for parts that go into iPhones and iPads represents a
bright spot for a semiconductor industry plagued by weak demand.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Broadcom’s biggest
supplier, last week said third-quarter sales would exceed
earlier forecasts because of rush orders from an unnamed
customer. Other large Taiwan Semiconductor clients have
disclosed disappointing results, suggesting that the customer
was probably Broadcom, rushing to meet demand from Apple,
according to a supply-chain analysis by Bloomberg.  “Broadcom is the largest link between Apple and Taiwan
Semiconductor,” said Richard Davenport, a Bloomberg supply
chain analyst, in a report. “Broadcom appears to be a likely
candidate for Taiwan Semiconductor’s rush orders.”  As overall electronics demand slows, Broadcom and other
suppliers for Apple’s iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch may fare
better than makers of personal-computer parts. Broadcom
reaffirmed its third-quarter forecast this week, while  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN)  and Altera Corp. were among chipmakers that
have reduced estimates, citing sluggish economic growth. The
contrasting reports highlight how surging sales of Apple gadgets
can sweep through the company’s chain of hundreds of suppliers.  “The suppliers of Apple are doing well,” said Michael Burton, an analyst at Kaufman Bros. in  New York . “The mobile
space is in a very good place.”  IPhone, IPad Sales  Karen Kahn, a spokeswoman for Broadcom, declined to
comment, as did Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino,
California-based Apple. Elizabeth Sun, a spokeswoman for Taiwan
Semiconductor, also declined to comment, citing the Hsinchu,
Taiwan-based company’s policy not to discuss customers and their
orders.  Apple may sell 19.5 million phones and 12.5 million iPads
in the quarter ending this month, according to  Mike Abramsky , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets . That’s up from 14.1 million
iPhones and 4.19 million iPads sold in the same period last
year.  PC makers and their suppliers are suffering by contrast.
Researcher  Gartner Inc.  last week cut its projection for 2011 PC
sales, saying shipments will rise 3.8 percent instead of the 9.3
percent growth it had forecast.  Rush Orders  Rush orders are last-minute purchases intended to make up
for dwindling inventory somewhere in the supply chain. Amid the
current semiconductor slump, such orders can only be coming from
a customer that is big enough to require a manufacturer as large
as Taiwan Semiconductor to adjust its resources, Davenport wrote
in the report.  “‘Rush orders’ are likely not from a new or unknown
product, but rather imply more needed capacity with a mature
product offering,” he said.  Anil Doradla, a chip analyst at William Blair & Co., said
Taiwan Semiconductor’s order also could also have been made by
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , which may have a new deal with Apple for iPhone
chips.  Kaufman Bros.’ Burton also said Taiwan Semiconductor’s
positive news might be related to orders from MediaTek Inc. and
Nvidia Corp., which are also customers of Taiwan Semiconductor.
Broadcom is less likely because it would have anticipated
heavier demand from Apple ahead of the new model of the iPhone
or higher sales in China, he said. Davenport also said MediaTek
or Qualcomm were possible sources for the rush orders.  Broadcom’s Forecast  Still, Broadcom reiterated its revenue forecast yesterday,
encouraging investors who had said that target might be overly
optimistic after other chipmakers had warned of disappointing
results, Burton said.  Broadcom, based in  Irvine ,  California , made the comments in
its announcement of its purchase of  NetLogic Microsystems Inc. (NETL) ,
a maker of processors used in  data networks , for about $3.7
billion in cash.  The positive reports from Taiwan Semiconductor and Broadcom
diverge from others in the chip business. In addition to Altera
and Texas Instruments, Fairchild Semiconductor International
Inc. told investors its results would be less than earlier
forecast.  “Taiwan Semiconductor’s data sticks out like a sore
thumb,” Davenport said in an interview. “We are seeing cuts on
almost a daily basis.”  Apple, whose sales jumped 52 percent last year, is
Broadcom’s largest customer, accounting for about 11 percent of
sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Apple’s biggest
suppliers include Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Samsung
Electronics Co. and Quanta Computer Inc., according to Bloomberg
data.  Expanding in  China   Apple is expected to announce a new iPhone by the end of
October and will expand its availability in the U.S. to include
Sprint Nextel Corp., people familiar with the matter said last
week. The company also is expanding in China, where sales grew
sixfold last quarter and new retail stores are planned.  Demand from Sprint or carriers in China could result in
“an upward revision” to Broadcom’s recently reiterated
forecast, Davenport said.  Broadcom rose 55 cents to $35.32 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading today. The company, whose stock has dropped 19 percent
this year, may be spared from the struggles of other chipmakers
because of Apple.  “Apple could save the quarter for Broadcom,” said William
Blair’s Doradla.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  