-- 
Israel Prices Rise 0.5% as Rental, Electricity Costs Climb

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-09-15T16:48:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/israeli-prices-rise-0-5-percent-as-electricity-costs-increase.html
Israeli consumer prices rose more
than forecast in August as home rental costs climbed,
government-regulated electricity fees increased and the
weakening of the shekel helped push up import and travel prices.  Consumer prices advanced 0.5 percent from July, the  Central
Bureau of Statistics  in Jerusalem said today. The median
estimate in a survey of 14 economists by Bloomberg was 0.3
percent. The annual inflation rate was 3.4 percent, the same as
in the previous month.  Electricity prices were raised in mid-August after attacks
on the  gas pipeline  from  Egypt  cut off supply, forcing the use
of other fuels and making power production more expensive.
Diplomatic tensions with Egypt and  Turkey  and the prospect of
the Palestinian application for United Nations membership helped
depreciate the shekel, which slid about 4 percent in August, the
most since January.  “The high August index is due to one-time hikes, as in
electricity prices, and to the sharp increase in the housing
index,” said Amir Kahanovich, chief economist at Clal
Investment Management Ltd. in  Tel Aviv . The jump in  home prices 
is due, in part, to the shortfall in residential construction,
he said.  Housing costs rose 1.3 percent, the largest monthly
increase since at least February.  Interest Rate  Bank of  Israel  Governor Stanley Fischer has raised the
benchmark interest rate 10 times in the past two years, in an
effort to rein in inflation which has exceeded the government’s
1 percent to 3 percent target since the beginning of the year.
Fischer left the rate at 3.25 percent for a third month in
August.  “The high index strengthens our assessment that the Bank
of Israel won’t go back to cutting interest rates, at least for
the time being, even though the market is already pricing in
 interest rate  reductions,” Kahanovich said.  Inflation is forecast to decline to within the government’s
target. Economists’ 12-month inflation expectations dropped to
2.5 percent, the lowest since March 2010, from 2.9 percent a
month earlier, the central bank reported Aug. 21. The two-year
breakeven rate between inflation-linked bonds and normal debt,
which reflects expectations for inflation over the period,
dropped six basis points to 176.9. That implies an average
annual inflation rate of about 1.77 percent.  The Bank of Israel cut its forecast for economic growth
this year and next on Aug. 2, saying debt-reduction plans in
developed countries may lead to a global slowdown. The economy
will expand 4.8 percent in 2011 and 3.9 percent in 2012, the
central bank said, lowering its forecasts from 5.2 percent and
4.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 