-- 
Hitachi Says Talks With Mitsubishi Heavy Are Continuing

-- B y   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i ,   M a r k   L e e   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-09-15T10:31:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/hitachi-says-talks-with-mitsubishi-heavy-are-continuing-1-.html
Hitachi Ltd. (6501) , Japan’s second-
biggest manufacturer by revenue, is in talks on the possible
merger of some businesses with  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) 
Hitachi President Hiroaki Nakanishi said.  “We have met a number of times, officially and
unofficially,” Nakanishi said today in an interview. Talks
“haven’t stopped,” he said.  The railway business, where Hitachi and Mitsubishi Heavy
have different strengths, is among areas the two companies have
held discussions on, Nakanishi said.  The two Tokyo-based companies issued statements on Aug. 4
saying media reports about the companies holding merger talks
were wrong after the Nikkei newspaper reported they were
considering an integration of their infrastructure and
information technology units. Nakanishi told Tokyo Broadcasting
System that day talks on a deal were being held.  “There is a limit to what can be done on Hitachi’s own
when we think about developing businesses globally to make the
most of  Japan ’s infrastructure technology,” Nakanishi said. “I
deeply feel that we should seek alliances aggressively.”  Nuclear Operations  Hitachi rose 0.8 percent to 381 yen in Tokyo trading,
narrowing its loss this year to 12 percent. Mitsubishi Heavy has
gained 3.9 percent this year, compared with a 15 percent decline
by Japan’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average.  Mitsubishi Heavy hasn’t changed its stance since its Aug. 4
announcement, spokesman Yukie Yamamoto said.  The two companies aren’t likely to agree to unite their
nuclear power operations as they both have different partners,
Nakanishi said.  Hitachi, Japan’s second-largest builder of nuclear
reactors, expanded the reactor business in 2007 when the company
and  General Electric Co. (GE)  combined their nuclear-plant businesses
into two ventures in the U.S. and Japan. Mitsubishi Heavy has a
venture with  France ’s Areva SA to make mid-sized reactors.  Hitachi aims to boost its revenue from railway business to
320 billion yen by March 2016 from 133 billion yen in the year
ended March 31, mainly through overseas growth, the company  said 
in June.  Hitachi’s products include communications and electronic
equipment, industrial machinery and consumer electronics. In
March it agreed to sell its hard-disk drive unit to  Western
Digital Corp. (WDC)  for about $4.3 billion in cash and stock, the
company’s largest disposal on record.  The sale was part of plans to trim some of Hitachi’s
hundreds of businesses to focus on power plants, trains and
other infrastructure projects. The company said last month it
may stop making televisions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshinori Eki in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  