-- 
Italy’s Economic Growth Forecasts Cut by EU, Confindustria Group

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-09-15T13:27:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/italy-s-economic-growth-forecasts-cut-by-eu-confindustria-group.html
Confindustria , the Italian
employers association, cut its growth forecasts for this year
and next and the European Commission predicted the euro region’s
third-biggest economy will stall in the second half of 2011.  Rome-based Confindustria forecast the $2.3 trillion economy
will expand 0.7 percent this year instead of the 0.8 percent
projected in June. That matched the new prediction released
today by the European Commission, which lowered its forecast
from 1 percent in May. Confindustria also lowered its outlook
for next year’s growth to 0.2 percent from 0.6 percent.  The moves cast doubt on whether the government can achieve
its plan to balance the budget in 2013. Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  secured final approval yesterday for a 54 billion-
euro ($74 billion) deficit-reduction package. The program is
based on a projected increase in gross domestic product of more
than 1 percent this year and next. Berlusconi proposed the
measures to convince the  European Central Bank  to buy Italian 
bonds after borrowing costs surged to euro-era records.  While “the package contains various measures that will
credibly curb the  budget deficit  in the very near term, the
Achilles heel is the assumed underlying GDP growth scenario,
which we view as too optimistic,” Fabio Fois, European
economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London , wrote in a note to
investors. “This is the main reason we think  Italy  is unlikely
to achieve a close-to-balanced position until a year later.”  Consolidation, Growth  Italy must continue and even intensify not only fiscal
consolidation, but also measures aimed at boosting economic
growth, European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters in Brussels today.  Growth in Italy is being hurt by the global economic
slowdown, turbulence in financial markets that is raising
the country’s borrowing costs and the effects of “the deficit-
cutting measures that are indispensible without an alternative
to quickly improve the public accounts,” Confindustria said.  It forecast that the government will end this year with a
deficit of 3.7 percent of GDP, with the shortfall narrowing to
1.6 percent in 2012. The government predicts deficits of 3.9
percent and 1.4 percent. The difference on next year’s projected
shortfall “is completely justified by the difference between
the valuations of growth,” the report said.  Confindustria said it’s “essential” that Italy restores
confidence in its public finances to bring down borrowing costs.
With 1.9 trillion euros of debt, more than  Greece ,  Spain ,
 Portugal , Ireland combined, Italy’s ability to finance its debt
“has implications for the euro area as a whole,” it said.  Market Concerns  Given that Italy has one of the lowest budget deficits in
the euro region, the jump in borrowing costs reflects concern
about economic growth, the group said.  “It’s the perspective for growth that worries markets,
more than the public finances itself,” Confindustria said.
“The low growth makes it difficult to bring down the debt.”  Italy was one of the European countries hardest hit by the
global recession and slowest to recover from its effects,
Confindustria said. Its economy shrank 6.9 percent between
the first quarter of 2008 and the second quarter of 2009. At
the end of next year, the Italian economy will still be 4.5
percent smaller than at its pre-recession peak, Confindustria
said.  Italy’s GDP will fall 0.1 percent in the three months
through September and rise 0.1 percent in the fourth quarter,
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
forecast last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  