-- 
Mitsubishi, Malaysia’s Proton Hold Talks to Build Engines, Cars

-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y ,   G a n   Y e n   K u a n ,   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 
2011-09-15T08:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/mitsubishi-malaysia-s-proton-in-talks-to-build-engines-cars.html
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  and  Proton
Holdings Bhd. (PROH)  plan to jointly build engines and work on small-car 
projects as they expand their alliance, the companies said.  Proton will produce Mitsubishi-brand vehicles at its
facilities and share parts with the Japanese automaker for small
cars, Proton Managing Director Syed Zainal Abidin Syed Mohamed Tahir said today. Mitsubishi will also provide the Malaysian
carmaker with technology on electric, plug-in and hybrid
vehicles, the companies said.  With domestic demand slowing and a strong yen reducing
export earnings, Japanese carmakers including Mitsubishi, Toyota
Motor Corp. and Suzuki Motor Corp. are investing to expand
business in  Southeast Asia . Mitsubishi and Proton agreed in
December 2008 to make new vehicles together. Under a license
agreement, Proton currently produces the Inspira sedan based on
a Mitsubishi Motors vehicle.  Separately, the Malaysian newspaper Edge reported earlier
today that the two companies are close to signing an agreement
to form a joint venture to manufacture vehicles for the
Southeast Asian market, citing unidentified people familiar with
the matter. The tie-up would give Mitsubishi access to Proton’s
Tanjung Malim plant in  Malaysia ’s Perak state, the report said.  Mitsubishi Motors rose 2 percent to 101 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of Tokyo trading. Proton fell 0.4 percent to 2.80 ringgit
as of 3:53 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur  trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  