-- 
Deutsche Bank’s Jain Says Europe Crisis Will Be Resolved

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k k a p e n
-- 
2011-09-15T15:29:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/jain-positive-that-resolution-to-europe-crisis-will-be-found.html
Anshu Jain, set to take over as co-
chief executive officer of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  next year, said he’s
positive that a resolution to the European sovereign debt crisis
will be found.  “All folks that we are in touch with give us every sign
that the enormity of the problem is well understood, and a
resolution will be found,” Jain, who will take over with
Juergen Fitschen as co-CEO after  Josef Ackermann  steps down in
May 2012, said at a conference in Singapore today.  Stocks globally gained and the euro strengthened after
German and French leaders signaled support for  Greece  and the
 European Central Bank  and international policy makers
coordinated to lend dollars to banks to help tame the credit
crisis. Investor skittishness over  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis has raised lenders’ funding costs and caused a rout in
the region’s banking stocks this month.  “The importance of a very strong domestic base has been
underlined now more than ever,” Jain said. “Equally, I think
it is very important to be geographically diverse. As much as
that home base is important, having that diversity allows you to
ride out cyclical ups and downs as we go across economies.”  Deutsche Bank rose 5.5 percent to 24.81 euros at 4:56 p.m.
in Frankfurt trading. The stock has dropped 37 percent this
year, valuing the firm at 23 billion euros ($32 billion). That
compares to a 33 percent decline in the 46-member Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  Balance ‘Key’  “Being anchored in  Germany  is an asset which is of huge
importance to us,” Jain said. A balance between commercial and
 investment banking  as well as retail lending is “absolutely
key,” he said.  CEO Ackermann bought Bonn-based consumer lender Deutsche
Postbank AG and private-wealth manager Sal. Oppenheim Group to
cut the company’s dependence on investment banking. The goal is
to raise pretax earnings from  consumer lending , money management
and transaction banking to 50 percent of the total in the long
term  Most banks have taken “very significant steps” to change
the way they do business, Jain said. The industry is also going
through an “unprecedented” amount of consolidation with the
number of the bank’s rivals dropping to six or seven from 17 to
18, he said.  “The fact that the world needs banks tells me that as we
make it through these troubled times, our ability to generate
mid-teens returns on equity in wholesale banking remains very
high,” Jain said. “If you look at where valuations are today,
that’s not reflected at all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in  Singapore  at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  