-- 
Japanese Stocks Advance as Germany, France Express Support for Greece

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-09-15T07:11:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/japanese-stocks-rise-as-germany-france-say-greece-to-remain-in-euro-zone.html
Japanese stocks advanced, with the
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rising the most in a week, after German
and French leaders said they are convinced Greece will remain in
the euro zone and speculation grew that China may help the
region’s most-indebted nations.  Kyocera Corp., an electronics maker that gets almost 20
percent of its sales in  Europe , added 2.1 percent after the euro
appreciated against the yen, boosting the exporter’s earnings
outlook.  Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd. (5405) , Japan’s No. 3
steelmaker, jumped 3.8 percent after Credit Suisse Group AG
raised its stock price estimate.  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665)  paced
chipmakers higher after saying it may shift some production
overseas.  The Nikkei 225 advanced 1.8 percent to 8,668.86 at the 3
p.m. close in  Tokyo , its biggest increase since Sept. 7. The
broader Topix added 1.4 percent to 751.76, with more than five
shares rising for each that fell.  “There was a concern that France and Germany would one-
sidedly blame Greece and show no support, but the situation on
Greece was not as bad as expected,” said Mitsushige Akino, who
oversees about $600 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co. ”Following the stronger euro, more companies
sensitive to the euro on earnings will likely be bought.”  The Topix has fallen 16 percent this year amid concern U.S.
growth is sputtering and Europe’s debt crisis will damage the
banking system, damping demand in two of Japan’s biggest export
markets.  Support For Greece  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced for a third day
yesterday in  New York , rising 1.4 percent. French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor Angela Merkel are
“convinced” Greece will remain in the euro area, according to
a statement issued by Sarkozy after they spoke to Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  by telephone. Futures on the  S&P 500 
were little changed today.  China  is willing to buy the bonds of nations hit by the
debt crisis, Caijing reported on its website yesterday, citing
 Zhang Xiaoqiang , a vice chairman of the National Development and
Reform Commission.  Japanese exporters to Europe gained after the region’s
shared currency appreciated against the majority of its most-
traded counterparts. The euro advanced to 105.29 yen at the
close of  stock trading  today in Tokyo, compared with 104.83
yesterday.  ‘Buying Trigger’  Kyocera added 2.1 percent to 6,750 yen. Ricoh Co., an
office-equipment and camera maker that obtains almost a quarter
of its revenue in Europe, climbed 2.2 percent to 662 yen.  The euro’s advanced was a “buying trigger,” said
Seiichiro Iwamoto, who helps oversee about $35 billion in
Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co. “Many companies are
hedging for the dollar, but not for the euro. So, the
impact from the euro’s appreciation on earnings is big.”  Sumitomo Metal Industries advanced 3.8 percent to 166 yen
after Credit Suisse raised its price target for the steelmaker
to 230 yen from 220 yen, citing higher prices for the company’s
seamless pipes. Nippon Steel Corp. gained 3.6 percent to 231 yen
after Credit Suisse raised its profit outlook for  Japan ’s No. 1
steelmaker.  Elpida, the world’s third-largest memory chipmaker, jumped 5
percent to 564 yen after saying it may shift some production to
Taiwan as part of plans to cope with a stronger yen and an
industry slump. Elpida has lost 40 percent this year.  Chip-related companies also advanced after the Philadelphia
Semiconductor Index, which tracks the performance of 30 industry
stocks, rose yesterday for a third day to its highest level
since Aug. 3. Dainippon Screen Manufacturing Co., a maker of
chip-making equipment, soared 6 percent to 479 yen. Advantest
Corp., the world’s biggest producer of chip testers, climbed 2.7
percent to 885 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 