-- 
Japan Banks Won’t Forgive Tepco Loans, Lobby Chief Says

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 
2011-09-15T08:30:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/japan-banks-won-t-forgive-tepco-loans-lobby-chief-says-1-.html
Japanese banks won’t forgive loans
made to Tokyo Electric Power Co., the country’s banking lobby
chief said, responding to a government official’s comments that
creditors should help support the nuclear plant operator.  “We have repeatedly said we wouldn’t accept forgiveness of
loans to Tepco if we are asked to do so,”  Katsunori Nagayasu ,
head of the Japanese Bankers Association, said at a news
conference in Tokyo today. “I believe the government wouldn’t
let default of Tepco or forgiveness of loans happen.”  Yukio Edano,  Japan ’s new trade minister, said this week
that Tokyo Electric creditors and shareholders should help pay
for the costs associated with the nuclear accident at its
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The government has set up an
organization to support Tokyo Electric, known as Tepco, with 2
trillion yen ($26 billion) of funding.  Edano made similar remarks earlier this year in his
previous role as chief government spokesman. Nagayasu and his
predecessor Masayuki Oku said at the time that banks weren’t
prepared to forgive loans to Tepco.  Nagayasu is also chief executive officer of  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. (8306) , one of the Japanese banks that lent about
2 trillion yen to the utility after a March 11 earthquake and
tsunami damaged reactors and caused a meltdown.  “We’ve given support to Tepco such as emergency loans after
the disaster and will continue to do so,” Nagayasu said today.
“The government’s measures such as formation of the third-party
body to compensate victims, contain the nuclear crisis and
maintain Japan’s power supply were taken based on the premise
that a default of Tepco or a loan waiver won’t happen.”  Edano said in parliament today that it wouldn’t be
“appropriate” to let Tepco go bankrupt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in  Tokyo  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  