-- 
Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Gain on ECB Liquidity Plan

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-09-15T23:23:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/japanese-australia-stock-futures-gain-as-ecb-offers-loans-to-europe-banks.html
Japanese and Australian  stock
futures  advanced after the European Central Bank and
international policy makers coordinated to lend dollars to banks
to help tame the credit crisis.  American depositary receipts of Honda Motor Co., a Japanese
carmaker that gets almost 85 percent of its sales abroad, gained
1.7 percent from the closing share price in Tokyo. Those of
 Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,  Japan ’s No. 3 publicly traded bank,
rose 1.5 percent after the Nikkei newspaper reported the lender
will complete a unit merger in the first half of fiscal 2013.
ADRs of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company
and Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, added 1.3 percent after
crude and metals prices rose.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 8,730 in Chicago yesterday compared with
8,600 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,720
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index gained 1.1 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
added 0.7 percent in Wellington.  “This is akin to a lender-of-last-resort-type facility for
banks that increases their flexibility to deal with any
potential funding gap,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage
$1 billion in equities at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne.
“It’s an additional form of liquidity globally that’s not
necessarily a catalyst for global growth but may arrest
declines.”  Greece Support  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent
today. In New York, the index advanced for a fourth day, rising
1.7 percent yesterday, as the  European Central Bank  and
international policy makers coordinated to lend dollars to banks
to tame the credit crisis, offsetting concern spurred by signs
unemployment is worsening in the U.S.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said it coordinated with the
 Federal Reserve , the Bank of England, the  Bank of Japan  and the
Swiss National Bank to extend three-month loans to euro-area
banks in an effort to ensure they have enough cash for the rest
of the year.  The euro appreciated to as high as 106.99 yen last night in
Tokyo, compared with 105.29 at the close of stock trading
yesterday, boosting the value of some overseas income at
Japanese companies when repatriated.  In the U.S., a report showed industrial production
unexpectedly rose in August. That helped temper concerns about
other data pointing to a weakening recovery, including
applications for U.S. unemployment benefits, which rose last
week to the highest level since the end of June.  Manufacturing Shrinks  Separate reports showed manufacturing in the  New York 
region contracted at a faster pace in September, while
manufacturing in the Philadelphia region shrank for a second
straight month.  Crude oil for October delivery rose 0.6 percent to settle
at $89.40 a barrel in New York yesterday. The London Metal
Exchange Index of prices for six metals including copper and
aluminum advanced 1.2 percent, its first gain since Sept. 8.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 14 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 3.9 percent drop by the S&P
500 and a 17 percent loss by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark are valued at 11.8 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.1 for the S&P 500 and 9.6
times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 