-- 
Jefferson County President Says Lender Compromise Is Near

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k   a n d   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-09-15T20:37:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/jefferson-county-commission-president-likes-new-creditor-deal.html
Jefferson County Commission
President  David Carrington  said creditors led by  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  have resolved issues blocking a settlement over the
Alabama county’s $3.1 billion of sewer debt.  Carrington said he believed the new terms resolve
objections raised by fellow commissioners in August, when they
rejected an earlier proposal. At least two commissioners were
less willing to voice approval in interviews.  “If you go down the list, they’re all there,” Carrington
said yesterday in an interview in Birmingham, referring to a
document laying out terms of a proposed deal.  The commission plans to vote tomorrow on whether to accept
a settlement or declare the largest U.S. municipal bankruptcy.
Jefferson County, home to Birmingham and more than 658,000
residents, has been in fiscal straits since a sewer-bond
refinancing collapsed more than three years earlier.  The proposal includes a compromise on ownership of the
county’s $1.5 billion in sewer assets and a 25 percent increase
in sewer rates that would be spread over three years, instead of
18 months, Carrington said. Parts of the deal would require
approval by  Alabama ’s Legislature.  The deal would require three annual sewer-rate increases of
8.2 percent starting as soon as Nov. 1, followed by future
projected annual increases of no more than 3.25 percent,
according to a term sheet obtained by Bloomberg News.  ‘A Few Concessions’  Commissioner Sandra Little Brown said yesterday that she
could still get more concessions, such as a smaller sewer-rate
rise. She said she was satisfied with a number of other changes.  “They did make a few concessions there,” she said.  Under the proposed deal, creditors would erase more than $1
billion in debt, according to the term sheet. The county would
refinance $2.05 billion to repay old debts, contingent on an
additional $30 million in concessions from creditors. As much as
$1 billion of the 40-year debt may be insured by  Assured
Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  if the county chooses to purchase coverage.
Assured carries a AA+ rating from  Standard & Poor’s .  To ease commissioners’ concerns about the transfer of the
sewer system’s assets to a new authority, the county would get
the assets back after the refinancing debt is repaid. The
authority would be prohibited from selling or transferring sewer
assets without the county’s approval.  The county agreed to set up a fund to help poorer residents
pay for the rate increases.  Jimmie Stephens, the Finance Committee chairman, said in an
interview he has reservations about the new terms and is
inclined to vote against the deal as structured now.  Commissioner George Bowman said a settlement was close,
though he didn’t say how he’d vote. Commissioner Joe Knight told
the Birmingham News that the commission is “close enough to
where we can make this thing work.”  Justin Perras , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment. Ashweeta Durani, a spokeswoman in  New York 
for Assured, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Birmingham, Alabama, at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  