-- 
Jefferson County’s Major Creditors Agree on Debt Reorganization

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k ,   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-09-16T14:31:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/jpmorgan-offers-750-million-in-concessions-to-alabama-county.html
Jefferson County’s major creditors
signed agreements in principle to reorganize $3.14 billion of
sewer debt that has driven the Alabama county to consider what
would be the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy  The signed letters include one from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
which arranged most of the debt, said John Young, a court-
appointed receiver running negotiations.  JPMorgan would provide $750 million of about $1.1 billion
in concessions under a proposal the county’s five commissioners
plan to vote on at 11 a.m.  New York  time today, Commissioner Joe Knight said in an interview yesterday. If the settlement is
rejected, the county may declare bankruptcy.  If the plan is approved, the county and its banks would
take another month to turn the terms into a binding agreement,
with a deadline of Oct. 15, Young said.  Any deal also hinges on the state Legislature taking action
on the county’s projected deficit. Jefferson County is facing a
$40 million gap in its operating budget that begins Oct. 1 after
the Legislature failed to help replace a source of  tax revenue 
that was thrown out by a court.  The size of JPMorgan’s offer was confirmed by a second
person familiar with the negotiations, who requested anonymity
because the talks are continuing. The remaining amount of about
$350 million will be split among banks that provided credit
lines for the debt, bond insurers and investment funds.  Major Holder  JPMorgan, which managed the county’s sewer-bond
refinancings in 2002 and 2003, holds about $1.2 billion of the
county’s $3.1 billion sewer debt, the person said.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on the settlement proposal in an e-mail.  Some commissioners say they aren’t satisfied with terms of
the settlement, including the size of sewer-rate increases
customers would pay over the next three years.  “The numbers are not quite there yet,” commission Finance
Chairman Jimmie Stephens said today. He said he wouldn’t vote
for a settlement if that doesn’t change.  “I’m going to listen to what the bankruptcy attorneys say
to understand the pros and cons of a settlement and
bankruptcy,” Stephens said. “At that time, we will come back,
and I will make up my mind.”  Rate Increases  Under the proposed deal, the county would refinance $2.05
billion to repay old debt, contingent on an additional $30
million in concessions from creditors. Sewer customers would
face three yearly sewer-rate increases of 8.2 percent starting
as soon as Nov. 1, followed by projected annual growth of no
more than 3.25 percent, according to a term sheet obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The rate increases may be reduced if the county chooses to
purchase as much as $1 billion in bond insurance from  Assured
Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) , said the person familiar with the negotiations.  Commissioner Sandra Little Brown said in an interview today
she wanted to see sewer rates closer to 7.8 percent annually.
Knight and Brown said those disagreements can be worked out
over the next month, before the final deal is signed in October,
assuming the commission approves it today.  Jefferson’s step toward bankruptcy was brought on by
adjustable-rate bond deals arranged by banks led by JPMorgan in
2002 and 2003 that were coupled with interest-rate swaps. The
strategy mirrored similar deals engineered for borrowers around
the country -- ostensibly to save money -- that wound up costing
local governments billions of dollars when the financial crisis
rattled  Wall Street .  Political Corruption  The bond deals were also rife with political corruption,
which caused the cost of the sewer project to soar as it was
built during the 1990s. Former commission president and
Birmingham Mayor  Larry Langford , a Democrat, was convicted of
accepting bribes in connection with the financing.  The proposed settlement will mean the Jefferson County
debacle will have cost JPMorgan $1.47 billion because it
previously agreed to a $722 million  settlement  with the
Securities and Exchange Commission over politically oriented
kickbacks paid to land the financings.  Two former JPMorgan bankers are fighting SEC charges that
they made $8 million in undisclosed payments to friends of
commissioners to secure the bank’s role in the deals.  The financings arranged by JPMorgan left the county exposed
to market turmoil in 2008, when the credit crisis pushed up
municipal lending rates. After some bond insurers incurred
losses on subprime-related securities and lost their top credit
ratings, investors dumped Jefferson debt, forcing the county to
pay penalty rates as high as 10 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Birmingham,  Alabama , at
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net 
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net 
Kathleen Edwards in Birmingham, Alabama, at
.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  