-- 
Kansas City Fed Names Esther George as President, Replacing Thomas Hoenig

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-09-15T19:42:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/kansas-city-fed-names-esther-george-as-president-replacing-thomas-hoenig.html
The  Federal Reserve  Bank of Kansas
City named Esther George, its No. 2 official, as president to
succeed  Thomas Hoenig , the U.S. central bank’s longest-serving
policy maker, who is retiring.  George, 53, who has spent much of her career in bank
supervision, has served as first vice president since 2009 and
joined the bank in 1982, the Kansas City Fed said in a statement
today. Hoenig, 65, who dissented from all Fed monetary-policy
decisions in 2010, departs Oct. 1 under the retirement-age
policy for regional Fed presidents.  George, who will vote on monetary policy in 2013, joins an
unusually divided Fed policy-making group contending with
unemployment at 9.1 percent and rising inflation. She may echo
Hoenig’s opposition to record monetary stimulus and his
criticism of policies supporting banks deemed “too big to
fail,” said Troy Davig, a former  Kansas City  Fed researcher.  “She’s been listening to Tom for 20 years and working
closely with him,” said Davig, now a senior economist at
 Barclays Capital  in New York. “From everything I saw when I was
there, they have a fantastic relationship, and I think that she
was very convinced by his views.”  The Kansas City Fed doesn’t have texts available for
speeches by George in recent years. She spoke in 2008 at a
Commodity Futures Trading Commission forum in Washington,
discussing then-emerging strains in agricultural finance,
according to remarks posted on the CFTC’s website.  Landscape Changing  “The financial and economic landscape is changing in our
region and around the world, and I am mindful of the challenges
ahead,” George said in today’s statement.  During Hoenig’s 20-year career as leader of the Kansas City
Fed, he repeatedly urged the  Federal Open Market Committee  to
tighten monetary policy to prevent inflation from accelerating
and asset-price bubbles from emerging. He voted eight straight
times last year against near-zero  interest rates  and, later,
bond purchases backed by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, tying former
Governor Henry Wallich’s record in 1980 for most dissents in a
single year.  In congressional testimony July 26, Hoenig said the Fed
shouldn’t subsidize investment banks by holding rates
artificially low. “It is not the Federal Reserve’s job to pave
the yield curve with guaranteed returns for any sector of the
economy, and we should not be guaranteeing a return for  Wall
Street  or any special interest group,” he said.  Target Rate  Three Fed presidents, representing the Dallas, Philadelphia
and Minneapolis districts, dissented from the Fed’s Aug. 9
commitment to keep the target interest rate near zero until mid-
2013. That was the most “no” votes since 1992.  George’s appointment maintains the level of banking
expertise on an FOMC where a majority of participants, like
Bernanke, are Ph.D. economists. George was born in St. Joseph,
 Missouri , and holds a bachelor’s degree from Missouri Western
State University in St. Joseph and an MBA from the University of
Missouri-Kansas City.  From 2001 to 2009, she was senior vice president in charge
of the Division of Supervision and Risk Management, overseeing
regulation of the Kansas City Fed district’s 170 state-chartered
member banks and almost 1,000 bank and financial holding
companies, today’s statement said. She worked in  Washington  in
2009 as acting director of bank supervision for the entire Fed
system.  George will also continue Hoenig’s tradition of hosting and
choosing topics and speakers for the regional bank’s marquee
event, the annual summer symposium in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . The
gathering draws dozens of central bankers from around the world.  Internal Fed Rules  Hoenig will retire exactly two decades after beginning his
tenure in 1991. He is required under internal Fed rules to
retire at age 65, an age he reached Sept. 6.  Hoenig lost his vote on monetary policy this year as part
of an annual rotation among 11 of the 12 leaders of the regional
Fed banks. The heads of the Chicago, Philadelphia, Minneapolis
and Dallas banks vote this year. The  New York  Fed president has
a permanent vote.  Adding George brings to two the number of women among the
12 regional Fed presidents.  Sandra Pianalto  has headed the
Cleveland Fed since 2003, the longest tenure among regional
chiefs after Hoenig. The Fed’s Board of Governors has three
women out of five current members.  The last opening among Fed bank presidents was filled by
John C. Williams, former research director of San Francisco Fed,
who was promoted on March 1 to be that bank’s president.  Final Say  Fed presidents are selected by boards of directors
consisting of local business and community leaders chosen by
banks in the region and by Fed officials in Washington. Bernanke
and the Board of Governors have final say over the appointment
of presidents. The Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 overhauling financial
regulation removed commercial banks from having a direct say in
the selection process.  The  Kansas  City Fed search committee was led by Terry
Moore, president of the Omaha Federation of Labor in Nebraska
and a member of the regional bank’s board of directors.  The Kansas City Fed is one of the 12 regional banks that
aid in supervising commercial banks and processing checks as
well as reporting on regional business conditions. The Kansas
City district represents  Colorado , Kansas, Nebraska,  Oklahoma ,
Wyoming, northern  New Mexico  and the western third of Missouri.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  