-- 
Kasman, Hubbard Say Tolerance for Inflation May Damage Fed’s Credibility

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-09-15T15:01:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/kasman-hubbard-say-lenience-toward-inflation-may-erode-fed-s-credibility.html
The  Federal Reserve  would damage
its credibility and harm the economy should it try to spur
economic growth by increasing its tolerance for inflation, said
Bruce Kasman, chief economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The Fed has to be clear about what its medium-term
objectives are,” Kasman said today at the Bloomberg Markets 50
Summit in  New York , tied to the magazine’s ranking of the 50
most influential leaders in global markets, finance, business
and government. Raising the Fed’s target to 4 percent annual
inflation from 2 percent “will have consequences in terms of
its credibility, in terms of the way economic decisions are made
in the U.S., which over time will do an awful lot of damage.”  Kasman joined R.  Glenn Hubbard , the dean of Columbia
University’s business school and Don Brownstein, chief
investment officer and chief executive of Structured Portfolio
Management, LLC, in discussing a proposal from Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans  that the central bank increase stimulus
until the  unemployment rate  falls to 7 percent or 7.5 percent.
Evans advocates such easing even if inflation rises above the
1.7 percent to 2 percent goal of policy makers.  Brownstein supported a similar proposal, saying the Fed
could “target some inflation rate higher than the supposed
target of 2 percent and perhaps target an employment rate,” he
said.  “Those are tools they can employ,” Brownstein said.
“Those are communications tools but those are tools that will
work.”  Advocates of Easing  According to minutes of the FOMC’s August meeting, a
“few” members favored a “more substantial move” beyond the
central bank’s pledge to hold rates low for about two years.
Evans, among the FOMC’s most outspoken advocates of easing since
last year, voted for the FOMC’s Aug. 9 commitment to keep the
overnight lending rate between banks near zero through at least
mid-2013.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an Aug. 26 speech in
 Jackson Hole  that “The Federal Reserve has a role in promoting
the longer-term performance of the economy. Most importantly,
monetary policy that ensures that inflation remains low and
stable over time contributes to long-run macroeconomic and
financial stability.”  The inflation rate in the U.S. rose more than forecast in
August as consumers paid more for food, energy and housing.  The consumer-price index increased 0.4 percent after a 0.5
percent gain in July, figures from the Labor Department showed
today in Washington. Economists projected a 0.2 percent gain,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Inflation Accelerating  Overall prices have risen 3.8 percent in the 12 months
ended with August. Excluding food and energy, prices have risen
2 percent.  “I do worry about this talk starting to come out of the
Fed of ‘Oh, a little more inflation not a problem,’” said
 Columbia University ’s Hubbard. Bernanke “was very careful not
to go there in Jackson Hole but is allowing the buzz to
continue,” Hubbard said.  “This is a very serious mistake,” said Hubbard. He is a
member of Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ’s
economic team, along with N. Gregory Mankiw, an economics
professor at  Harvard University .  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  has also expressed
skepticism about Evans’s proposal.  “Talk about threatening the independence of the Federal
Reserve,” Fisher told reporters after a speech in Dallas on
Sept. 12.  There is a “difference between theory and practice,”
Fisher said. “I understand the theory. I think we also have to
consider how severe the backlash would be from those who don’t
want their income or meager savings eroded by price increases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  