-- 
Kenya May Sell at Least $500 Million of Eurobonds in Current Fiscal Year

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-15T10:37:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/kenya-may-sell-at-least-500-million-of-eurobonds-in-current-fiscal-year.html
Kenya  may bring forward a planned
sale of at least $500 million in Eurobonds to this fiscal year
from 2012-13 to benefit from lower offshore borrowing costs.  “We are considering doing it this fiscal year,” Henry
Rotich, the Treasury’s deputy director of economic affairs, said
today in a phone interview from Nairobi, the capital. “Low
interest rates in the U.S.” have spurred the department to
revisit its plan, and pricing will be determined when a lead
manager is appointed and officials meet with investors, he said.  The U.S. Federal Reserve in August pledged to keep its
benchmark interest rate at a record-low 0.25 percent at least
through mid-2013 to revive its economic recovery. Kenya raised
its benchmark  interest rate  for the third time this year
yesterday to help curb inflation which accelerated to 16.7
percent in August, more than triple the 5 percent target.  Kenya in June said it may revive plans to sell dollar-
denominated debt international markets after shelving plans more
than three years ago as the global financial crisis seized
credit markets. The country joins other African nations such as
Zambia, Angola and  Rwanda  that intend to raise capital in the
global markets.  Kenya is rated B+ at both Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings, the fourth-highest junk assessment by both companies,
placing it on par with  Cape Verde  and Zambia.  Funding Needs  Kenya needs financing to tackle the worst drought in 60
years, meet growing wage demands after hiring thousands of new
teachers, and increase spending on service delivery in line with
surging inflation, Finance Ministry Economic Secretary Geoffrey
Mwau said yesterday.  Kenya’s debt-servicing costs budgeted for in the current
fiscal year are proving to be “significantly higher” due to an
unexpected weakening in the shilling and soaring interest rates,
Mwau said.  The currency has slid 15 percent against the dollar this
year, making it the worst performer worldwide after  Uganda ’s
shilling. Kenya’s currency climbed 0.3 percent to 94.93 at 1:13
p.m. in Nairobi today. Six-month borrowing costs rose to 11.935
percent at a treasury-bill auction yesterday, the highest in a
decade.  To help ease liquidity and strengthen the shilling, the
government has requested additional support from the
 International Monetary Fund  and it will raise funding through
infrastructure bonds, the central bank said yesterday. In
January, the IMF approved a three-year arrangement under its
Extended Credit Facility for Kenya, equivalent to about $508.7
million, with an initial disbursement of $101.7 million. An
additional payment of $65 million was approved in June.  Growth Forecast  Kenya’s economy is expected to grow 6 percent next year,
from an estimated 5 percent to 5.5 percent in 2011, while
inflation may start slowing within three months as the onset of
rains boosts food supplies following drought, Finance Ministry
Permanent Secretary Joseph Kinyua said yesterday.  Kenya’s inaugural Eurobond sale is intended to set a
benchmark for corporate borrowers seeking loans abroad and will
be followed by similar offerings, John Murugu, director of the
 Finance Ministry ’s debt-management department, said on June 30.  Kenya is targeting net foreign financing of 116.7 billion
shillings ($1.2 billion) in 2011-2012, compared with an
estimated 37.6 billion shillings a year earlier, Finance
Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said in his June budget speech. The
country’s domestic borrowing is targeted at 119.5 billion
shillings, down from about 90 billion shillings a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 