-- 
Kepco Holders Press CEO to End $4 Billion Inflation Subsidy

-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 
2011-09-16T07:37:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/kepco-holders-press-ceo-kim-to-end-4-billion-inflation-subsidy.html
Korea Electric Power Corp. (015760) ’s
shareholders want Chief Executive Officer Kim Joong Kyum
to succeed where his predecessor failed: ending government curbs
on electricity prices.  Shareholders ratified the appointment in Seoul today, and
Kim, 61, will take office once South Korean President Lee Myung- Bak signs off on the vote, according to the agenda circulated at
the meeting. He replaces Kim Ssang Su, 66, an advocate of
autonomy for the state-controlled utility known as Kepco, who
wasn’t reappointed after his three-year term ended last month.  The Seoul-based company supplies almost all of  South
Korea ’s electricity and is likely to post a loss for the fourth
year as price caps aimed at curbing inflation prevent it from
passing on higher fuel costs to customers. Kepco’s shares have
slumped 27 percent this year, more than double the pace of
decline in the benchmark Kospi index.  “The government’s influence is hurting the interests of
other shareholders,” said Lee Chae Won, who as chief investment
officer of Korea Value Asset Management Co. in  Seoul  oversees
the equivalent of $3.1 billion in assets, including Kepco shares.
“I want to see the new CEO fight the government and work for
all shareholders.”  The government raised electricity prices by an average 4.9
percent from Aug. 1, the first increase in more than a year.
South Korea’s inflation rate accelerated to 5.3 percent last
month, the highest in three years.  Costs, Losses  Fuel costs rose 19 percent in the first six months, while
the price of power purchased from other producers increased 45
percent from a year earlier, Kepco said Aug. 16, when it posted
a 1.64 trillion won ($1.5 billion) loss for the first half. The
utility may post a full-year loss of 455 billion won, according
to the average estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Prices need to be increased by another 10 percent, said Kim
Jin Woo, president of the Korea Energy Economics Institute, a
state think tank on  energy policy .  “Unless power prices cover costs, Kepco risks a possible
downgrade of its  credit rating , and losses will overshadow any
other achievements of the CEO,” Kim said in a Sept. 8 interview.
“He needs to get the government to grant autonomy to Kepco.”  The company’s debt is rated A by  Standard & Poor’s , its
sixth-highest investment grade, with a stable outlook. Moody’s
Investors Service ranks it a notch higher at A1. The stock rose
3 percent to close at 22,100 won. The Kospi gained 3.7 percent.  Pricing Mechanism  Losses have totaled 4.62 trillion won ($4 billion) in the
past 3 1/2 years, according to data on the company’s website, as
the government delayed its plan to link electricity prices to
fuel costs and allow more frequent adjustments.  Under the existing system, Kepco submits proposals for
price adjustments each month to the Ministry of  Knowledge
Economy , which makes the final decision after discussing the
likely impact of the changes on inflation with policy makers,
including officials at the Ministry of Strategy and Finance.  The new CEO’s background may help him gain access to South
Korean President Lee’s policy makers and overcome hurdles his
predecessor couldn’t, said Kim Seung Woo, an analyst at Samsung
Securities Co.  Both men are alumni of Korea University in Seoul and led
Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co., South Korea’s biggest
builder.  Alumni Network  Kim graduated in 1976, 11 years after Lee, and has a
bachelor’s degree in architectural engineering. He joined
Hyundai Engineering the same year and was CEO from March 2009
until May of this year. Lee held that post from 1977 to 1988.  “Investors will expect his antecedents to help win the
government’s support,” said Kim of Samsung Securities.  In his final media briefing as CEO, Kim Ssang Su apologized
to shareholders for failing to get the government to change its
pricing system, according to a report in the Korea Economic
Daily. The government needs to discard the notion that it’s
acceptable for state-controlled companies to lose money, he said
on Aug. 25, according to the newspaper. The government holds 51
percent of Kepco.  The former Kepco chief left the company on Aug. 29, three
days after his term officially ended, according to company
spokeswoman Kim Hye Lim. Heads of South Korean state companies
usually remain in office until they are reappointed or until a
successor is named by the government. Kim Ssang Su didn’t reply
to an e-mail seeking comment for this article.  Choo Kang Soo, CEO of  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , was granted a second
term on Sept. 1. A government panel named Kim Joong Kyum to lead
Kepco the same day. Three calls to Kim’s mobile phone went
unanswered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  