-- 
King of Rinds Has 2 Contenders as Hispanic Surge Fattens Sales

-- B y   K e n   W e l l s
-- 
2011-09-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/king-of-rinds-has-2-contenders-as-hispanic-surge-fattens-sales.html
To make  Baken-ets  pork rinds for
No. 1 client Frito-Lay, the $13 billion-a-year snack arm of
PepsiCo Inc.,  Rudolph Foods  Inc. uses what it calls a secret
two-step process at its flagship plant in  Lima , Ohio -- “the
pork rind capital of the world,” Rudolph claims.  Pork skins, removed from slaughtered pigs by mechanical
skinners at meat packing companies, arrive at Rudolph’s plants
in 20-ton lots aboard refrigerated 18-wheeler trucks. Precut
into roughly one-by-three-foot rectangles, they are trundled
around in metal bins holding up to 1,800 pounds each and fed
into mechanical cutters that dice them into one-inch squares.  Other pork rind makers send these squares by conveyor belt
into cookers and renderers that wring out most of the fat and
water. Rudolph smokes them first -- though exactly what wood or
curing spices it uses on what are now called pellets is part of
a  closely guarded recipe  at the family-owned company.  “I only have half of it,” deadpans Jim Rudolph, 49,
Rudolph’s chief executive officer. “My brother Rich (who serves
as president) has the other half.”  After smoking and curing, Rudolph’s rinds are rendered at
240 Fahrenheit. They’re inspected by an optical sorter that
kicks out misshapen and discolored rinds, or foreign objects
such as pig bones. Rudolph then fries pellets for one minute in
400-Fahrenheit lard, where they fluff up like popcorn. Cooled
and seasoned on conveyors, they’re bagged six to eight hours
after the process began: featherweight, crunchy, hint-of-bacon
snacks that are a bright spot in the snack food industry,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Sept. 19 issue.  Mac’s, LaTonita  Frito-Lay sold almost 49 million bags of Baken-ets over a
12-month period ending May 15, up 11 percent from the previous
year, according to data from  Symphony IRI Group , which tracks
snack-food statistics. Not bad in a sputtering economy.  Rinds are also the object of an intense rivalry, with
Rudolph’s claims to being “largest pork rind manufacturer”
hotly contested by  Chicago’s Evans Food Group  Ltd. “No
question, we are the No. 1 pork rind maker in the world,” says
Alejandro Silva, Evans’s CEO and principal owner. Privately held
Evans sells two of its mainstay brands, Mac’s and LaTonita, to
 Wal-Mart Stores  Inc. and has a brisk business making private
label brands for about a dozen well-known snack concerns,
including Pennsylvania-based Utz Quality Foods. Last year, Evans
processed more than 100 million pounds of raw pork skins, raking
in more than $100 million in revenue. Rudolph? Well, it also
reports more than $100 million in revenue, on similar volume.  Hispanic Demographic  If either company is to be the King of Rinds, both agree,
it will be because it’s shrewder than the other on distribution
and more effective at cultivating the taste of the fast-growing
 Hispanic market . Hispanics consume more rinds by volume than any
other ethnic group in the U.S., and, following an endorsement by
 George H.W. Bush  and the popularity of low-carb diets such as
Atkins, constitute the greatest force bringing pork rinds into
the mainstream. Silva believes rinds will hit $500 million in
retail sales by 2013, better than twice where they were two
decades ago. “The Hispanic demographic augurs well for the
future,” says Mary Gotaas, a snack food analyst for  IBISWorld .
“The pork rind business is a very good business to be in.”  Mark Singleton agrees. Eight years ago, Rudolph’s Dallas-
based vice-president of sales and marketing says he “leapt in
with two feet and never regretted it.” While rind sales may
seem slim next to the $7.6 billion a year potato chips pull in,
he says, “That’s just an opportunity to educate millions of new
people around the world to give rinds a chance.”  ‘White Grease’  Each year, 100 million to 120 million pigs go to their
slaughter in  North America , producing roughly 650 million pounds
of skins. In 2010, according to the U.S. Agriculture Department,
 110.3 million head  were killed in the U.S. alone. The gelatin
industry buys up about 60 percent of the skins to make products
for the drug and cosmetics industries, as well as Jell-O. About
5 to 10 percent go into making  leather goods . (Not footballs,
though. Early footballs were made from inflated pig bladders and
somehow got the name pigskins. Today’s footballs are either
synthetic or fashioned from  cowhides .)  Pork rind makers capture the rest. While raw pigskin prices
are at an all-time high of 41 cents a pound, putting pressure on
profits, margins in the rinds business typically run better than
20 percent. (A pound of skins can be converted into at least 10
1.5-ounce bags of rinds that retail for 99 cents.) Raw pigskin
prices are at historic highs these days, in part because the oil
rendered from skins, known as “ choice white grease ,” is sold
into the biodiesel market, and pegged to the price of crude oil.  Image Issue  The growth of the rinds business is all the more phenomenal
given its humble roots. In the U.S., rinds were once a food
fetish of the South. Hardscrabble farmers, not wanting to waste
an ounce of the hog they’d slaughtered, fried up fatty pork skin
into a dish they called  cracklings . Modern rinds are cracklings
(often spelled cracklins) with the fat removed. Southerners
still love their cracklings and rinds; blacks migrating from the
South to America’s great cities brought this love with them.  Spaniards also made cracklings in the Old Country and
carried their recipes to the New World, which begins to explain
why the Hispanic market in the U.S.,  Mexico , Central America and
parts of  South America  remain pork rind strongholds. Rinds,
however, still have an image issue outside their base. Or as
 Dawn Jackson Blatner , a registered dietician and nutritional
consultant to the Chicago Cubs baseball team, puts it: “I can’t
imagine a need to eat fried pigskin anytime soon.”  Bush 41  Europe , where neither Rudolph nor Evans has made much
headway, illustrates the cultural challenges of developing
demand. The Spanish still snack on rinds, as do the Danes, who
raise a lot of pigs and like to eat them. Norwegians, too, have
a thriving snack food industry and like to experiment. But the
Swedes next door? “They won’t touch them,” says Silva.  The French? Never. Same with the Italians.  Russia ,  Poland ,
the  Czech Republic , other Eastern Bloc countries? No, no, no,
and no. This is why the Bush moment was so crucial in America.  “See this man? He did more for pork rinds than anybody can
imagine,” says Silva, a gold pig pin enlivening his crisp blue
suit jacket. Standing before a bookcase in his cramped,
utilitarian office, he points to a photo of the 41st President.
In the waning days of the 1988 campaign, Bush  declared his love 
of rinds as he tried to distance himself from his preppy image.
He won, of course, and so many gift bags of rinds flowed to the
White House that Barbara Bush finally banned them. Rind sales,
which had plateaued at about $200 million a year, soared.  ‘Good Fats’  It’s also true that, until the  Atkins diet phenomenon , rind
sales were dampened by concerns that they were high in fat and
sodium. These hang-ups still plague rinds, even though Men’s
Health called them  “genius junk food”  in 2008 because they
contain no carbohydrates and have “nine times the protein”
found in carb-heavy potato chips. While rinds are indeed high in
fat, research shows that 43 percent is unsaturated fat, akin to
the  “good fats”  found in olive oil. Rinds are a poor choice,
however, for those on sodium-restricted diets: A one-ounce
serving has 521 milligrams of salt, nearly a quarter of the
daily recommended intake. During the Atkins craze, says
Singleton, dieters “who before would have just as soon as
kissed a pig” tried rinds and loved the bacony taste.  If taste remains a factor, the battle to be King of Rinds
is fought over distribution channels. Almost half of all rinds
are sold in  convenience stores ; supermarkets and mass
merchandisers account for most of the rest. The companies jostle
in every market in the U.S., which accounts for 65 percent of
global sales, and in more than a dozen countries abroad.  Rinds’ Mouthfeel  “It’s a fight,” says Silva. “How do I get the right
channels of distribution, into the convenience stores, the
retailers, the dollar stores? Those are trenches.”  In a modular temporary office during a remodeling of
Rudolph headquarters, Rudolph executives eagerly share their
version of the climb to the top of the rind heap. It’s eerily
like Evans’s story. Both companies have factories in  Ohio ,
 Texas ,  California , and  Mexico . Worldwide, Rudolph has about 400
employees, about 100 fewer than Evans.  Before the talk turns to numbers, Jim Rudolph, the trim,
enthusiastic son of the founder, John Rudolph, is eager to talk
quality -- particularly Rudolph’s proprietary  two-step cooking
process.  At Evans, “they use a one-step process,” says Jim.
Adds Chief Financial Officer Mike Harper: “With our rinds, the
 mouthfeel  is different, the color is different. Ours are much
better -- better color and mouthfeel.” (Applied to food,
mouthfeel, a term often associated with wine, is a measure of
crispness and texture.)  Mechanical Skinners  As their stories unwind, the Evans and Rudolph histories
seem more and more parallel, with both companies saying they
were founded on “passion.” Both also survived early crises
that almost sank them. Rudolph began in 1955 when John, now 86
and retired, bought a tiny specialty nut snack maker and
“almost by accident” stumbled into making rinds. For the first
two years, Jim relates, pork skins arrived at Rudolph having
been smoked by the meat processing plants.  Smoking made pigs easier to skin while imparting a bacon-
like flavor to the rinds. In 1957, mechanical skinners
eliminated the need for smoking -- bad news for Rudolph, since
John couldn’t conceive of consumers liking rinds without the
smoky taste. His wife, Mary, came to the rescue. Harper tells
the story: “‘What are we going to do?’ John said to Mary. Mary
replies, ‘I have a degree in home economics from  Bowling Green .
We’ll figure this thing out.’ And they basically worked around
the clock and came up with the secret recipe, and basically that
process is intact today.”  “Artisanal Slabs”  Silva, 63, grew up middle-class in Monterrey, Mexico,
savoring his mother’s home-cooked pork skins, called
 chicharrones . He got into the rinds business in Mexico in 1979
when he first saw bagged rinds come in from the U.S. He had a
degree in food technology and had spent seven months at a meat
distribution company. He knew his pigs and knew Mexicans loved
their rinds, which until the U.S. imports arrived had always
been sold as large “artisanal slabs” in butcher shops.  “Every Mexican knows this food,” says  Silva . “The moment
that I saw the margins for the product, I said, ‘Why don’t we do
this in Mexico instead of importing from the U.S.?’”  Life was good until 1982, when the  Mexican peso  underwent a
massive  devaluation  and the “entire Mexican economy went
downhill,” Silva recalls. He realized he’d have to start an
American operation to stay alive. After a detour to Sioux City,
 Iowa , where he set up a factory “to be close to the skins,” he
got a call from a private equity firm that had taken over Evans.  Evans was then a small private pork rind maker in  Chicago 
that sold mainly to the African-American market. The private
equity group had bought Evans to make money, not pork skins, and
was eager to flip it.  Liquid Smoke  “They knew about me because I was a competitor, selling my
product cheap just to keep the plant going. They said, ‘What are
you doing? What is your purpose in life?’ ‘To be the biggest
pork rind maker in the world.’ ‘Buy us out,’ they said.”  That was 1985. Silva swung the deal on credit, putting up
his remaining Mexican properties as collateral. “From Day One,
we were almost as big as Rudolph,” says Silva. “We would grow
bigger. Oh, and Evans dates back to 1947 -- so my company is
older than theirs.”  Today, on the strength of Evans tripling sales since 1993,
Silva owns a lakeview condo on Michigan Avenue near Chicago’s
 Magnificent Mile . And his growth-oriented stewardship of Evans
landed him a seat as a  director of Walgreen , the Chicago-based
drugstore chain. As for Rudolph’s belief that its rinds taste
better, Silva says: “They smoke the rinds, yes. We add smoke,
liquid smoke. Is that a different quality? I think it depends to
some extent on what spices you use. People eat rinds without
flavorings. They may notice a bit of a difference. But really,
distribution sells the product. If you have it in the store,
they’ll buy it.”  ‘Confidential’ Relationship  Silva has built a formidable network. “My largest customer
is Wal-Mart. The second is  Family Dollar . We have national
distribution with them,” he says. That said, about half of
Rudolph’s business is producing rinds for Frito-Lay -- not a bad
client to have, he concedes. In fact, the largest single selling
brand in the U.S. is Frito-Lay’s smoky-flavored Baken-ets. All
the same, Rudolph, which also packages and sells eight of its
own brands, doesn’t want to talk in any detail about Frito-Lay,
calling the relationship “confidential.”  But back to the core issue: Who is actually the No. 1 pork
rind maker in the world? For all the competitive posturing, it
turns out that Rudolph and Evans entertained an amicable merger
in 2007. It didn’t work out, according to Silva, “but that’s
how I know I’m bigger. We had to disclose certain information. I
saw their books and they saw mine. And I said, ‘Now tell me, who
is the one who makes more?’”  Rudolph’s Singleton yields no ground: “I’m very sure we’re
No. 1.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ken Wells in New York at 
 Kwells8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bradford Wieners in New York at 
 bwieners@bloomberg.net  