-- 
Kingfisher Profit Beats Estimates on Savings

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-09-15T07:22:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/kingfisher-profit-beats-estimates-on-savings.html
Kingfisher Plc (KGF) ,  Europe ’s largest
home-improvement retailer, reported first-half profit that beat
estimates as growth in France offset lower U.K. sales and the
company saved money by getting more goods direct from suppliers.  Adjusted pretax profit rose 24 percent to 439 million
pounds ($692 million), the London-based retailer said in a
statement today. The average estimate of 12 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg was 408 million pounds.  Kingfisher gets about 40 percent of sales from France,
where the growth of its Castorama and Brico Depot chains is
helping offset declining  consumer spending  in its other main
market, the U.K. The retailer is buying common ranges across all
countries for products like outdoor furniture, and building its
own-brand line as it seeks to reduce expenses.  “The stock is undervalued considering these results and
the company’s international spread of activities,” Freddie George, an analyst at  Seymour Pierce , said in a note today. He
raised his recommendation on the retailer to “buy” from
“hold” and increased his full-year earnings estimate.  Kingfisher rose as much as 12.9 pence, or 5.4 percent, to
252.5 pence in  London  trading and was up 5.1 percent at 8:23
a.m., the biggest gain in the  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)  The stock has
slipped 4.4 percent this year on concern about declining
consumer spending in some of the company’s European markets. The
retailer gets about two-thirds of profit outside the U.K.  Russian Expansion  In France, so-called retail profit gained 24 percent at
constant exchange rates to 201 million pounds, the company said.
Same-store sales in the country increased 4.5 percent.  Retail profit in the U.K., where Kingfisher’s B&Q is the
largest home-improvement chain, climbed 6.1 percent even as
same-store sales declined 1.5 percent.  In other international markets, retail profit rose 25
percent at constant exchange rates, driven by growth in Poland,
Spain, Turkey and Germany, while losses in  Russia  and China
eased. The retailer announced last week it was spending 115
million pounds on new Castorama stores in Russia over the next
two years, building on its 17 outlets there.  “Looking ahead, economic uncertainty throughout Europe is
likely to impact  consumer confidence , meaning conditions will
remain challenging for retailers,” Chief Executive Officer Ian Cheshire said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 