-- 
Kiwi Falls as RBNZ Says Global Economy May Slow ‘Sharply’; Aussie Advances

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-09-15T19:28:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/kiwi-falls-as-rbnz-says-global-economy-may-slow-sharply-aussie-advances.html
New Zealand ’s dollar fell against
the majority of it most-traded counterparts after Reserve Bank
Governor Alan Bollard held  interest rates  at a record low,
citing a risk that the global economy will slow “sharply.”  The currency, nicknamed the kiwi, weakened amid speculation
the central bank may delay its next interest-rate increase until
next year.  Australia ’s currency ended a five-day losing streak
against the greenback after the  European Central Bank  said it
will lend U.S. dollars to euro-area banks in coordination with
other central banks, easing concern the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis will worsen and increasing appetite for risk.  “The kiwi has moved down as a kneejerk response to the
statement, which was a little more dovish than expected,” said
 Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at Westpac Banking Corp.,
Australia’s second-largest lender. “The RBNZ has dropped its
rates track and is now closer to what swaps markets were
pricing. Swaps had already priced in a rather dire global
situation.”  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed at 82.33 U.S. cents
at 3:25 p.m. in  New York , compared with 82.32 cents yesterday.
The kiwi earlier dropped as much as 1.4 percent. It traded at
63.10 yen, compared with 63.07 yen, and fell 0.9 percent to
NZ$1.6867 per euro, from NZ$1.6713.  Australia’s dollar rose 04 percent to $1.0325, from
$1.0283. It gained 0.4 percent to 79.12 yen, from 78.80.  Global stocks and riskier currencies rallied after the ECB
said it will coordinate with the  Federal Reserve  and other
central banks to offer three separate three-month loans to
ensure euro-area banks have enough of the U.S. currency through
the end of the year. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased
1.6 percent.  ‘Medium-Term Effect’  New Zealand’s “exchange rate is significantly penalizing
some activity in the traded sector, hurting some New Zealand
firms, and that’s a medium-term effect not a short-term
effect,” Bollard told reporters in Wellington today after
leaving the official cash rate at 2.5 percent.  Seven of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted
Bollard will keep the official cash rate at the record low rate
until at least January. Last week, 13 of 15 expected higher
borrowing costs by December.  The Australian dollar, known as the Aussie, has lost 1.9
percent during the past week, the second-worst performance after
the Norwegian krone among the 10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. New Zealand’s dollar slipped 0.2
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  