-- 
Korean Won Sinks to Five-Month Low on Europe Debt Jitters

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-09-15T06:35:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/korean-won-gains-bonds-fall-as-europe-shows-support-for-greece.html
South Korea ’s won fell to its
weakest level in more than five months as concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis will worsen curbed demand for riskier assets, making it
harder for emerging markets to attract funds. Bonds fell.  The currency pared losses after the  finance ministry  phoned
media outlets including Bloomberg News to signal possible
intervention, the first time it’s done so since April 2010.
Authorities are “closely monitoring” the market and excessive
volatility is “not desirable,” said Eun Sung Soo, director
general at the ministry. Overseas investors cut their holdings
of Korean stocks for an eighth day, having pulled $889 billion
million from the securities this month through yesterday.  The won fell 0.8 percent to close at 1,116.26 per dollar in
Seoul, after earlier gaining as much as 0.9 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. At one point the currency was 1.1
percent weaker at 1,119.75, the lowest it’s been since March 24.  “The currency reversed earlier gains as rumors spread
that  Italy ’s credit rating may be cut, boosting demand for the
safest assets,” said Hwang Sun Min, a Seoul-based currency
dealer with Kookmin Bank. “Lots of investors want to buy
dollars, few want to sell.”  South Korea’s stance on the currency remains unchanged,
that the market determines exchange rates and the central bank
will only intervene when there’s an “imbalance of supply and
demand,” Financial Services Commission Chairman Kim Seok Dong
said today. The government will review and improve measures to
counter volatility in capital flows, Finance Minister Bahk Jae
Wan said.  More Volatile  Three-month implied volatility on the won, a measure of
exchange-rate fluctuations used to price options, climbed to 17
percent, the highest level since November, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It’s averaged 12 percent this year.  The government’s benchmark three-year bonds fell for the
first time in four days, pushing their yield up by the most in
at least three months. The yield on the 3.5 percent notes due
June 2014 rose 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to
3.39 percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. Yesterday’s
closing level was the lowest for a benchmark three-year note
since December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  