-- 
Najib Repeals Malaysia’s Detention, Media Licensing Laws Ahead of Election

-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-09-15T14:47:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/najib-repeals-malaysia-s-detention-media-licensing-laws-ahead-of-election.html
Prime Minister Najib Razak
announced  Malaysia ’s biggest political reforms since
independence in 1957, two months after street protests that led
to the arrest of more than 1,600 people.  Najib said he would abolish the Internal Security Act and
Emergency Ordinance, which allow for detention without trial, to
ensure that people in future can’t be held for their political
affiliations. The government will also loosen restrictions on
the media and public assembly, he said in a speech broadcast in
Malay language on national television today.  “The abolition of the ISA, and the other historic changes,
underline my commitment to making Malaysia a modern, progressive
democracy that can be proud to take its place at the top table
of international leadership,” Najib said. “Many will question
whether I am moving too far, too fast. There may be short-term
pain for me politically, but in the long term the changes I am
announcing will ensure a brighter, more prosperous future.”  Najib, 58, vowed to improve democratic freedoms before
national elections that could be held as early as next year, and
after a backlash against the country’s response to a July 9
rally demanding an overhaul of electoral laws. Groups such as
 Amnesty International  condemned the use of force to detain the
peaceful activists for defying a government ban to march on the
capital.  “It’s geared toward the election,” Ong Kian Ming, a
political analyst at UCSI University in Kuala Lumpur, said of
Najib’s speech in a telephone interview today.  Falling Popularity  The election protests were held by group of more than 60
non-governmental organizations, known as Bersih 2.0, which has
the support of opposition political parties. Bersih wants
 electoral changes , such as lengthening campaign periods to at
least 21 days and using indelible ink on fingers to prevent
people from voting more than once.  Public support for Najib fell to 59 percent in August from
65 percent in May, according to a survey by Selangor-based
Merdeka Center for Opinion Research. He had the highest rating
of 72 percent in May 2010. The decline of his popularity was due
to rising concerns over increasing living costs and the
government’s handling of the Bersih 2.0 rally, the center said
in a report on Aug. 29. The poll of 1,027 people was taken from
Aug. 11 to 27 and didn’t give a margin of error.  Najib said in a statement last month the government would
establish a bi-partisan parliamentary committee to review
changes to electoral laws, and that authorities would also
consider amending laws governing censorship of print media.  Blacked Out  During the July demonstrations, Malaysia’s Home Ministry
blacked out parts of an article in the Economist that called the
government “overzealous” in its handling of the Bersih rally.  “It’s a positive development that opens up space for
freedom of speech, rule of law and transparency,”  Ibrahim Suffian , a political analyst at Merdeka Center said in a
telephone interview. “The proof lies in the implementation of
these statements and the nature of the laws meant to replace the
ISA.”  The Internal Security Act was introduced in 1960 in the
wake on an armed insurgency by Communist rebels, giving the
police wide-ranging powers to detain suspects indefinitely. It
will be replaced by a law that would incorporate more judicial
oversight and limit police powers to detain people for
preventative reasons, Najib said.  Opponents Held  Opposition leaders including  Anwar Ibrahim , Lim Guan Eng
and Karpal Singh have been held under this law. The same
regulation remains in neighboring  Singapore , another former
British colony.  The Emergency Ordinance was introduced in Malaysia
following race riots in 1969, allowing suspects to be detained
for up to two years with consent of a minister. The government
used it against six opposition politicians in July.  “This will be replaced by a law that will not compromise
on national security and terrorism, while increasing democratic
accountability and judicial oversight,” the government said in
an e-mailed statement today.  Media laws will be repealed so that licenses can remain
valid indefinitely unless revoked in line with international
practices, it said. Previously, they had to be renewed annually.  The constitution guarantees the right to freedom of
peaceful assembly. However, the law has required police
permission before gatherings could go ahead, including on
private land such as stadiums.  “This law will now be reviewed to bring Malaysia in line
with international standards, while ensuring that the police
retain the right to prevent violent scenes on the nation’s
streets,” according to the government statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  