-- 
Netflix Tumbles After Cutting Forecast for U.S. Subscribers

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-09-15T20:14:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/netflix-tumbles-in-early-trading-after-cutting-u-s-subscriber-forecast.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the mail-order and
online film-rental service, fell the most in more than three
years after cutting its U.S. subscriber forecast following a
price increase.  Netflix slid $39.46, or 19 percent, to $169.25 at 4 p.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, the largest drop since
April 2008. The shares had gained 19 percent this year before
today.  The company, which unveiled new prices in July, will have
2.2 million domestic DVD-only subscribers at the end of this
quarter, compared with its previous projection of 3 million,
according to its statement published today. The  Los Gatos ,
California-based company also said it will have 9.8 million
streaming-only users after previously predicting 10 million.  The “rare, large and surprising misstep” came after
Netflix in July split its mail-order and streaming services into
two plans,  Barton Crockett , an analyst at Lazard Capital
Markets, wrote in a research note today. The move effectively
raised prices by 60 percent to $15.98 a month for people who
want DVDs and online access.  Netflix probably lost 594,000 U.S. subscribers as a result
of the price change, said Crockett, who has a “neutral” rating
on the shares.  “Netflix can test the impact of new pricing plans on new
subscribers, but it can’t easily test the impact on the
installed base of a pricing change,” he said.  ‘Long-Term Choice’  Netflix said it plans to use the revenue from the price
increase to license more streaming content. The first company to
offer an all-you-can-eat streaming service, Netflix is seeking
to expand its library of more than 20,000 online titles amid
increasing competition from Hulu LLC and online retailer
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   “We know our decision to split our services has upset many
of our subscribers,” Netflix said. “Despite the guidance
revision, we remain convinced that the splitting of our services
was the right long-term choice.”  Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros. television plans to sell
more of its shows to digital services like Netflix and
Amazon.com, Bruce Rosenblum, president of Warner Bros.
television, said today at an investor conference sponsored by
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  Beverly Hills ,  California .  As customers shift to Netflix’ streaming-only plan, the
average revenue it receives per user rises because it costs far
less to stream than process and mail DVDs, Michael Olson, an
analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co., said in a note.  The “silver lining” of the revised forecast was Netflix
reiterating its financial and international-subscriber estimates
for the quarter, Olson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net 
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 Cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  