-- 
New Jersey’s Unemployment Rate Dropped in August to 9.4%

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-09-15T16:14:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/new-jersey-s-unemployment-rate-dropped-in-august-to-9-4-1-.html
New Jersey ’s unemployment rate
declined by 0.1 percentage point to 9.4 percent in August, the
first drop this year.  Employment fell by 7,100 jobs, largely because of a labor
strike affecting 7,000 Verizon Communications Inc. employees who
have returned to work, the state’s  Labor Department  said in a
statement today. New Jersey’s jobless rate exceeds the national
level, which has held steady at 9.1 percent since July.  New Jersey has added 15,300 jobs over the past year,
bringing the total to 3.9 million as of August. Private-sector
payrolls have expanded, as government jobs have declined.
Governor  Chris Christie , a first-term Republican, said last
month that state finances had bottomed out and were beginning to
rebound, helped by private-sector employment gains.  “While our numbers reflect the softening of the national
economy and were impacted by a significant labor dispute, this
year’s uptrend in employment is still quite evident,” Charles Steindel, chief economist for New Jersey’s Treasury Department,
said in the statement. “The move down in the  unemployment rate 
in August, small as it was, also was welcome news.”  The unemployment rate is a measure of jobs held by state
residents, while total employment includes all jobs based in New
Jersey.  Employment at businesses fell by 11,300 in August from
July, as government jobs climbed 4,200 amid a seasonal increase
in education positions, the department said. Accounting for the
return of the striking workers, companies shed 4,300 jobs.  Fitch Ratings  cited weak economic recovery last month in
cutting its rating on New Jersey’s general-obligation debt one
step to AA-. Moody’s Investors Service in April cut its rating
one level to Aa3, while  Standard & Poor’s  cut its grade one
level to AA- in February. All three ratings are the fourth-
highest investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 