-- 
New Zealand Focuses on CO2 Costs, Not Climate, IdeaCarbon Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-09-15T11:42:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/new-zealand-focuses-on-co2-costs-not-climate-ideacarbon-says.html
New Zealand proposals to extend its
carbon market beyond 2012 focus on cutting costs for emitters
rather than protecting the climate, IdeaCarbon said.  A panel of lawmakers reviewing the market proposed to
increase a price cap by NZ$5 a ton a year starting in 2013 from
its current level of NZ$25 ($20.53) a ton, according to a report
published today on a  government website . It requested the
government consider limiting use of Certified Emission Reduction
credits from projects that curb hydrofluorocarbon-23 gas, the
most plentiful offset type in the United Nations carbon market.  The panel’s recommendations will probably mean the price
doesn't rise to threaten the price cap, said  Matthew Gray , an
analyst in London for IdeaCarbon, which rates emission credit
projects. “It’s hard to see them hit the cap anytime soon,” he
said today by e-mail.  The recommendations could boost demand for CERs from the UN
program, he said. Emitters will probably “continue to favor
CERs over NZ units, because they are liquid and cost
effective.”  Spot New Zealand allowances, known as units, dropped 23
percent this year to NZ$15.13 a ton, according to data from
Westpac Banking Corp. New supply of credits in the UN market 
surged to 228 million tons so far this year, compared with 
132 million tons in all of last year, Bloomberg data show.  CERs for December rose 0.9 percent today to 8.80 euros
($12.15) a ton on the ICE Futures Europe Exchange in  London  as
of 12:16 p.m. local time. Gray said he expected the panel to
recommend limits on credits from hydrofluorocarbon-23-cutting
projects, which the EU imposed earlier this year for May 2013.  The panel sought to “appropriately pace the increase in
the scheme’s costs in the short term and to continue to protect
the most exposed businesses through free allocation of New
Zealand emission units,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  