-- 
UN Says 6 Million at Risk in North Korea as Sanctions Add to Food Shortage

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-09-15T10:42:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/north-korea-food-crisis-worsens-on-sanctions-global-price-surge.html
North Korea ’s food shortages are
worsening, with a drop in aid and a jump in food prices
prompting a “rapid” rise in malnourished children and putting
millions of others at risk, two United Nations agencies warned.  The country faces a shortfall of as much as 700,000 metric
tons of food this year, which could affect a quarter of the 24
million population,  Hiroyuki Konuma , the Food & Agriculture
Organization’s Asia representative, told reporters in Bangkok
today. Former U.S. President  Jimmy Carter  accused the U.S. and
 South Korea  in April of a “human-rights violation” for
refusing to give food aid to North Korea.  While a harsh winter and summer floods damaged crops,
agricultural output is expected to remain about the same or
slightly higher than last year, Konuma said. A slump in trade
and aid amid U.S.-led efforts to stem funding for  Kim Jong Il ’s
regime, together with global food prices that remain close to
record highs, have meant the North Korean government has been
unable to bridge the shortfall, he said.  “We are afraid that next year will be a more severe
situation,” said Konuma, who returned yesterday from a three-
day trip to North Korea. “That’s why we are making a big voice
to the international community to provide support.”  South Korea and the U.S. have resisted UN appeals to
provide food to North Korea, which they blame for attacks last
year that killed 50 South Koreans. President  Lee Myung Bak 
dismantled his predecessor’s “Sunshine Policy” of engaging
with the North, arguing that this only served to encourage Kim’s
provocative behavior.  Tough Line  The administration of U.S. President  Barack Obama  echoed
that policy, saying that sanctions aimed at cutting the flow of
revenue to the North had to be enforced until Kim meets
commitments made in multinational talks to dismantle his nuclear
weapons program. The U.S. and Lee say the North must also make
an irrevocable commitment to cease provocations like the March
sinking of the Cheonan and November shelling of Yeonpyeong
Island.  The UN will probably be able to provide about 100,000 tons
of the 434,000 tons of food it appealed for after an outbreak of
foot-and-mouth disease killed cows and oxen widely used as draft
animals, Konuma said. North Korea bought about 180,000 tons on
the open market, with a further 80,000 tons coming from donors
including  Algeria , Myanmar, China and  Russia .  “The price of maize has soared and it became very
difficult for the North Korea government to keep the same
quantity they need,” Konuma said.  Corn futures have jumped 46 percent in the past year. The
FAO’s food index, a broader gauge of global prices, gained 26
percent in the 12 months to August to 231.13, close to its
February record high of 237.68.  Starving Children  South Korea, which provided 400,000 tons of food aid to
North Korea in 2006, discontinued shipments in 2009, the FAO
said. The country faces an annual shortfall of about 1 million
tons, and efforts to boost  food production  by 20 percent to
become self-sufficient may be a decade away, Konuma said.  “We remain very concerned about the rapidly rising number
of malnourished children,” Marcus Prior, a spokesman for the
World Food Program, said at the same event. A famine in  Africa 
that has killed tens of thousands of people and threatens the
lives of 12.4 million in  Somalia ,  Ethiopia  and  Kenya  has
diverted donor attention, he said.  “There is no doubt at the moment the Horn of Africa is the
global priority,” Prior said. “It’s been a long time since
we’ve had a famine to respond to, so there is always a decision
to be made when you only have a pie to cut a certain way.”  Yacht, Fireworks  Former South Korean Unification Minister Hyun In Taek in
April said the North’s plea for donations of food seemed to be
politically motivated. The South regularly accuses members of
the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea of indulging in luxurious
lifestyles at the expense of ordinary people, with added
concerns that aid is siphoned off by the military.  South Korea’s Yonhap news agency last month reported that
Kim had enjoyed a sailing holiday on his yacht as the country
struggled to cope with devastating floods. North Korea spent
more than $6 million on fireworks to celebrate the birthday of
its late founder,  Kim Il Sung , Seoul-based Open Radio for North
Korea said in May, citing unidentified people in  China .  The North and South are still technically at war after
their 1950-1953 conflict ended without a treaty. Signs of a thaw
have emerged recently, with both sides agreeing on July 22 to
try to revive the six-country nuclear talks.  South Korea’s Lee last month appointed Yu Woo Ik, a former
ambassador to China, to oversee North Korean affairs. China is
the North’s main ally and biggest benefactor.  ‘Paradigm Shift’  “A paradigm shift” in South Korea’s policy toward the
North is needed to revive the country’s agricultural
productivity, Hong Joon Pyo, chairman of the ruling  Grand
National Party , said in a Sept. 7 speech. “To do this, South
Korea can provide agricultural aid, help improve irrigation
systems and operate joint farming projects in the North.”  North  Korea  has relied on outside handouts since the
mid-1990s when an estimated 2 million people died from famine.
Konuma visited North Korea from Sept. 11 to Sept. 14 at the
invitation of the government. The FAO has a $5 million program
to promote crop-seed production, improve agricultural statistics
and prevent post-harvest losses of food.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  