-- 
Obama’s Solar Bets May Avoid Solyndra’s Fate With Low Costs

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-15T11:27:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/obama-s-bets-on-abound-solopower-cut-costs-to-avoid-bankruptcy.html
Three solar-energy manufacturers
that received backing from the Obama administration may survive
an onslaught of cheap Chinese panels that helped force Solyndra
LLC into bankruptcy.  Abound Solar Inc. and SoloPower Inc. won a total of $597
million in  loan guarantees  from the U.S. Energy Department to
begin building their first commercial solar-panel plants this
year, and 1366 Technologies Inc. received a $150 million
guarantee for a polysilicon wafer factory.  Abound and SoloPower say their thin-film panels will
compete on price against the most common type of solar panels,
which are made from polysilicon, and 1366 is developing a low-
cost system for producing polysilicon.  Solyndra touted the light weight and ease of installation
of its cylindrical, thin-film solar products, advantages that
were more important in 2009 when it received a $535 million U.S.
loan guarantee to build a factory. The price of silicon-based
panels, made mainly in  China , has fallen 46 percent since then.  “Silicon panels have so relentlessly cut costs that other
approaches haven’t been able to keep up,” Kevin Landis,
portfolio manager at Sivest Group Inc., a  San Jose , California-
based investment manager with more than $300 million under
management including SoloPower.  $1 a Watt  The falling prices mean Abound and SoloPower will need to
sell their thin-film solar panels at no more than $1.05 a watt
to be competitive in 2013 when the plants are expected to go
into full production, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
The four companies are the only solar manufacturers to receive
Energy Department loan guarantees. Most recipients are
developing power plants.  “In 2013 we should be able to sell at a dollar, 90 cents
or even as low as 80 cents per watt and still make money,”
Julian Hawkins, senior vice president of sales and marketing for
Loveland, Colorado-based Abound, said in an interview. “When
Solyndra started up it was a completely different time for the
industry. Nobody expected the huge drop in polysilicon prices.”  Lawmakers are wondering whether other companies that
received government backing will follow Solyndra into
bankruptcy.  ‘One Bad Bet’  “Was Solyndra just one bad bet by an administration
rushing to claim credit for the first loan guarantee, or is it
the tip of the iceberg?” Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan
Republican who is chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee
said at a hearing yesterday. Solyndra filed for  bankruptcy
protection  Sept. 6, and fired about 1,100 employees.  Competing on price will be difficult.  “The odds are stacked against these startups coming into a
highly competitive market with new technologies,” said Paul
Clegg, a solar analyst at Mizuho Securities USA in New York.
“One of these guys might succeed but the amount of money needed
to reach scale is huge and its often underestimated.”  Abound, which received its $400 million guarantee in
December, is the furthest along of the three manufacturers. It’s
expanding a plant in  Colorado  this year and will complete in
2013 a new one in Tipton,  Indiana , that’s expected to be the
largest U.S. thin-film solar production facility. The company
expects to  employ  1,200 people at the two factories.  It will compete against both polysilicon panels and  First
Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s biggest thin-film solar company that
produces panels for 72 cents a watt. Multicrystalline silicon
solar modules, a competing technology, sold for $1.43 a watt at
on average at the end of August, New Energy Finance estimates.  Easier to Produce  Thin-film products require less labor, time and energy to
produce than polysilicon-based products.  General Electric Co. (GE)  is
also betting on the technology, with its  PrimeStar Solar .  “Abound claims their process is more refined and less
costly,” said Jesse Pichel, analyst at Jefferies & Co. “It’s
awfully hard to compete with First Solar.”  SoloPower received its $197 million loan guarantee on Aug.
19. “I expect our total costs to be very competitive,”
SoloPower Chief Executive Officer Tim Harris said in an
interview. His lighter, flexible panels don’t require the
fragile and costly glass sheets that First Solar and Abound use,
making them useful for commercial and industrial rooftops that
“can’t bear the weight of the older technology.”  Using technology developed at  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology ,  1366 Technologies  is building a factory that will
continuously produce silicon wafers in just 25 seconds, compared
with conventional batch processing takes up to three days, the
Energy Department said in a statement last week when it
guaranteed them $150 million in loans. The factory will be able
to produce up to 1,000 megawatts of cells annually.        “The portfolio of investments of this administration has
made, we stand by them and we believe that they will prove to be
essential investments in the cutting edge technologies of the
future,” White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters
yesterday as the president traveled to an appearance in Raleigh,
 North Carolina .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  