-- 
Obama Will Exclude Social Security From Deficit-Cutting Plan

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-09-15T17:58:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/obama-will-exclude-social-security-from-deficit-cuts-aide-says.html
President  Barack Obama  won’t
propose modifying the Social Security program when he spells out
his plan to push long-term deficit reduction beyond $1.5
trillion over a decade, an aide said today.  “The president’s recommendation for deficit reduction will
not include any changes to Social Security,” White House
spokeswoman  Amy Brundage  said in an e-mailed statement,
confirming an earlier report in the Wall Street Journal. She
said Obama “does not believe that Social Security is a driver
of our near and medium term deficits.”  The president is urging lawmakers in both parties “to work
together on a parallel track to strengthen Social Security for
future generations rather than taking a piecemeal approach as
part of a deficit reduction plan,” Brundage said.  Obama plans to present a plan Sept. 19 for cutting billions
of dollars in spending as part of long-term deficit reduction
that will be taken up by a 12-member congressional committee.
The panel’s mandate is to find ways to trim $1.5 trillion from
projected deficits. The committee also will have to consider
whether to accept Obama’s ideas, released earlier this week, for
raising taxes on private equity managers, top earners and oil
and gas companies to pay for his $447 billion jobs-growth
package.  Republican Plans  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said in a
speech today that overhauling Social Security, Medicare and
Medicaid should be part of the deliberations of the bipartisan
supercommittee.  In April, the president offered a “framework” of deficit
reductions of $4 trillion over 12 years. That proposal exempted
Social Security and called for $340 billion in Medicare and
Medicaid savings by reducing their long-term growth and cutting
back on Medicare’s “excessive spending on  prescription drugs .”  During talks in July on raising the nation’s debt limit,
the White House had indicated a willingness to consider making a
change in the cost-of-living formula for Social Security that
would have had the effect of reducing benefits. The negotiations
fell apart, leading to action that created the supercommittee to
deal with the deficit issues.  Entitlement programs -- Social Security, Medicare and
Medicaid -- represent 43 percent of the federal budget and are
thus targets for probable savings.  Obama said in his address to Congress Sept. 8 his deficit-
reduction plan would include “modest adjustments” to Medicare
and Medicaid and “reforming our  tax code  in a way that asks the
wealthiest Americans and biggest corporations to pay their fair
share.”  The president’s goal “is to get substantial deficit
reduction and debt control,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said at a briefing today. “He’ll do that with a broad
array of proposals.”  Medicaid is projected to grow by 6.7 percent this year, and
much of the savings may come from health-care programs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  