-- 
Obama Urges Congress to Act Vowing Campaign for Jobs Plan

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-09-16T00:14:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/obama-urges-congress-to-act-as-he-vows-to-campaign-for-jobs-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  said he will
continue to travel around the nation to build support for his
jobs plan, telling donors he will treat the effort “like a
campaign” to persuade Congress of the urgent need for action.  “We’ve got to take it to the American people and make the
case,” he said tonight at a fundraiser for the  Democratic
National Committee  hosted by the African American Leadership
Council in Washington. Lawmakers can overcome the impression
held by some that they are “accustomed to doing nothing” for
average Americans, he said.  The president spoke at two fundraisers at private homes in
Washington, seeking to rally support for his $447 billion
proposal to boost hiring. The package of tax cuts and spending
has run into resistance from Democrats as well as Republicans in
Congress.  At his second stop at the home of former U.S. Ambassador to
Portugal Elizabeth Frawley Bagley, Obama said next year’s
presidential election will “offer a clearer contrast than we’ve
seen before.” He said he is confident he can win “a contest of
ideas in 2012” against Republicans and said his odds for re-
election are better than his initial prospects to win the
presidency in 2008.  With unemployment stuck at 9.1 percent last month and the
economy growing at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the second
quarter, that will be a central issue as Obama campaigns for re-
election in 2012.  Republican Control  Republicans gained control of the  House of Representatives 
in 2010 on criticism of Obama’s economic policies and the
party’s presidential candidates are r2epeating that theme.  The 2012 election will highlight the “sharp divide”
between Republicans and Democrats, Obama said. He said donors
looking for inspiration to get active in the campaign should
“watch the Republican debates.”  About 30 people who paid $35,800 per couple attended the
first dinner, according to a Democratic official who wasn’t
authorized to speak on the record. The second dinner, also at a
private residence, was for about 50 guests paying the same
amount, the official said. Of the $35,800 from each couple,
$5,000 will go to Obama’s re-election campaign and $30,800 to
the  Democratic National Committee .  Since unveiling it in an address to Congress on Sept. 8,
Obama has promoted his jobs proposal in the battleground states
of  Ohio , Virginia and  North Carolina . He will return to Ohio,
the home state of Republican House Speaker  John Boehner , on
Sept. 22 to highlight the portion of his plan focused on
creating construction jobs by repairing roads and bridges.  More Stimulus  Republicans argue that the package is a repeat of the 2009
economic stimulus and relies too much on spending, including
putting money towards improving infrastructure and modernizing
schools. They say that the nation’s unemployment rate is proof
that the stimulus didn’t work.  At a speech earlier today to the Economic Club of
 Washington , Boehner criticized the president’s plan as a “poor
substitute for the pro-growth policies that are needed to remove
barriers to  job creation  in America.”  The Ohio Republican made clear he opposes much of Obama’s
plan, calling instead for adoption of Republican ideas to boost
job growth, such as reduced  government regulation .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  