-- 
Oil Tanker Newlead Avra Heads to Cyprus After Failing to Load Libya Cargo

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-09-15T10:07:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/oil-tanker-fails-to-load-libyan-cargo-owner-says-correct-.html
The oil tanker Newlead Avra, which
had been traveling to Mellitah in western  Libya , didn’t load a
cargo as intended and is now sailing to Cyprus, the vessel’s
owner said.  The ship, which has a carrying capacity of 73,400
deadweight tons, was instructed to sail to Limassol, Cyprus,
without having collected a cargo, Elisa Gerouki, a Piraeus,
Greece-based spokeswoman for  NewLead Holdings Ltd. (NEWL) , said by e-
mail today. The tanker can haul crude or refined-oil products,
according to Bureau Veritas Group, which monitors ships’
compliance with laws on seaworthiness.  The company that booked the ship didn’t confirm to NewLead
what the cargo would be, having originally indicated it would
collect condensate, Gerouki said later by phone.  Condensate that’s produced during oil-extraction is
equivalent to extra-light crude, according to James Zhang, an
analyst at Standard Bank Plc in  London . For the shipping
industry, such cargoes can be deemed clean petroleum products
provided they contain no residues from crude production, he
said.  Libya wants to resume crude exports in two to three weeks,
Guma El-Gamaty, the U.K. coordinator for the country’s National
Transitional Council, said Sept. 8. Shipments from the nation,
holder of  Africa ’s biggest oil reserves, plunged during a
conflict that escalated in February and led to the ousting of
 Muammar Qaddafi  as national leader.  An 80,000 metric-ton cargo of crude was being offered for
shipment from Mellitah between Sept. 15 and Sept. 17, three
people with direct knowledge of the transaction said Sept. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net  