-- 
Crude Oil Futures Gain After ECB Announces Plan to Lend Dollars to Banks

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-09-15T20:26:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/oil-rises-in-new-york-after-ecb-announces-plan-to-provide-dollars-to-banks.html
Crude oil increased after the
 European Central Bank  announced it will lend euro-area banks
dollars to help tame the region’s credit crisis.  Futures rose 0.6 percent after the Frankfurt-based ECB said
it would coordinate the action with the Federal Reserve, the
Bank of  England , the Bank of  Japan  and the  Swiss National Bank .
Oil also climbed when German and French leaders said they’re
certain  Greece  will stay in the euro zone, curbing concern that
the region’s debt crisis will reduce fuel demand.  “The market is highly reactive to the ebb and flow of
headlines about the euro-zone debt crisis,” said  John Kilduff ,
a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that
focuses on energy. “This should strengthen the euro, reduce the
need for the dollar as a safe haven and put us in commodity
rally mode again.”  Crude oil for October delivery rose 49 cents to settle at
$89.40 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Prices are
up 18 percent over the past year.  Brent oil for October settlement climbed $2.94, or 2.6
percent, to end the session at $115.34 on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange. The contract expires today. The more
active November future was up $2.65, or 2.4 percent, to settle
at $112.30.  The European benchmark contract was at premium of $25.94 to
U.S. futures, compared with a record $26.87 on Sept. 6, based on
settlement prices.  Dollar Declines  The dollar dropped 0.9 percent to $1.3884 against the euro
from $1.3755 yesterday. A weaker U.S. currency increases the
appeal of dollar-denominated raw materials as an investment. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.7 percent to 1,209.11 and the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 1.7 percent to 11,433.18 at
4:19 p.m. in New York.  The ECB loans are in addition to the bank’s regular seven-
day dollar offerings and will be conducted as fixed-rate tenders
with full allotment, the ECB said in a statement today. It will
offer the loans on Oct. 12, Nov. 9 and Dec. 7.  Industrial production in the U.S. unexpectedly rose in
August, signaling manufacturing will support the economy of the
world’s biggest oil-consuming country. Output at factories,
mines and utilities climbed 0.2 percent after a 0.9 percent gain
in July, figures from the  Federal Reserve  showed today.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had forecast no change.  U.S. prices dropped earlier when reports showed
applications for unemployment benefits rose last week to the
highest level since the end of June and manufacturing in the New
York and Philadelphia areas contracted. Jobless claims climbed
by 11,000 to 428,000 in the week ended Sept. 10 that included
the Labor Day holiday, figures from the Labor Department showed.  ‘Slightly Better Outlook’  “The slightly better outlook in Europe is lending the
markets some support,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of
market research at Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut .
“We got the first of what may be a long series of negative
headlines about the  U.S. economy  this morning.”  The Fed Bank of New York’s Empire State Index dropped to
minus 8.8, the weakest reading since November, from minus 7.7 in
August, the branch of the central bank said. The Federal Reserve
Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index improved to minus
17.5 from minus 30.7 last month. Readings less than zero signal
companies are cutting back.  “The weekly jobs number was poor and the Empire State
Index was terrible,” Kilduff said. “The economic data series
continue to deteriorate, and that probably won’t change anytime
soon. News from the  euro-zone  is more important to the market,
at least for today.”  Euro Region Growth  The 17-nation euro region will expand 0.2 percent in the
third quarter and 0.1 percent in the fourth, down from an
estimate in March for 0.4 percent expansion in both periods, the
European Commission in Brussels said today.  Libya, the nation that holds Africa’s largest oil reserves,
will resume partial crude exports within three or four days, the
nation’s representative to a meeting of Arab central bank
governors in Doha said. The country will produce about 700,000
barrels a day by the end of this year and an estimated 1.6
million barrels a day by the end of 2012, Abdulla Saudi said.  Libyan Exports  Libyan oil exports plummeted as fighting raged between
rebel forces and troops loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi . Output fell to
45,000 barrels a day in August, the lowest level since at least
January 1989, according to a Bloomberg News survey. The country
pumped 1.585 million barrels a day in January, the last month
before an uprising.  Rebel forces in  Libya  said today they captured Sirte,
Qaddafi’s birthplace and one of the last holdouts of his
loyalist troops. After an all day battle, the rebels announced
they controlled all entrances to the city.  The  International Energy Agency , which advises 28
industrialized nations on  energy policy , said today it has
terminated a program of releases from emergency reserves to make
up for the halt of exports from Libya.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 584,191
contracts as of 4:25 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 739,866
contracts yesterday. Open interest was 1.45 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 