-- 
Hong Kong Regulator Fines Hedge Fund Oasis, CIO for JAL Trade

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-09-15T09:58:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/hong-kong-regulator-fines-hedge-fund-oasis-cio-for-jal-trade.html
Hong Kong ’s securities regulator
fined hedge fund Oasis Management (Hong Kong) LLC, which helped
manage more than $3 billion at its peak, and its chief
investment officer for 2006 trades of Japan Airlines Corp.
shares.  Hong Kong-based Oasis and CIO Seth Fischer have each been
fined HK$7.5 million ($961,767), the Securities and Futures
Commission said in a  statement  today. They have also been
publicly reprimanded for the trades that the regulator alleged
appeared to have been designed to drive down the closing price
of the carrier and benefit Oasis funds.  SFC has followed in the footsteps of global regulators to
step up scrutiny of  hedge funds . The regulator is appealing a
Hong Kong High Court judge’s refusal to ban New York-based hedge
fund Tiger Asia Management LLC from trading in securities or
derivatives in the city for alleged insider trading of shares in
two of  China ’s largest state banks.  “The high fines underscore the SFC’s determination to
ensure Hong Kong’s market remains an international and regional
hub for high standards,” Mark Steward, the commission’s
executive director of enforcement, said in today’s statement.  The SFC alleged that Oasis placed several orders on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange for Japan Air shares within 15 minutes of
the market closing on July 19, 2006, after the carrier announced
a plan for a public sale of new shares.  The trades appeared intended to drive down the closing
price of Japan Air that day which would benefit the funds during
purchases of new shares in the offering, whose pricing was
referenced on the closing price, the SFC alleged.  Voluntary Measures  Oasis and Fischer didn’t admit that their trading strategy
was designed to mislead the market for the Japan Air shares,
according to the SFC. They agreed to accept the SFC sanctions
and took voluntary measures in 2007 to avoid a repeat of similar
trades on the Tokyo exchange, the regulator said.  “We are pleased to resolve this matter which relates to
trading which took place over five years ago,” Oasis said in an
e-mailed statement today. “We remain focused on delivering
positive returns for our investors and doing so with skill and
integrity as we have done for the last nine years.”  Oasis was founded by Fischer, who once ran Asian
investments at Highbridge Capital Management LLC.  Oasis formed a venture with DKR Capital Partners LP in
2002, named DKR Oasis Management Co. LP, which ran the DKR
SoundShore Oasis Fund, an Asia-focused multistrategy fund.  The venture was dissolved and outside investors’ money
returned gradually after the 2008 global financial crisis.  The Japanese Securities and Exchange Surveillance
Commission had referred the matter to the SFC, and assisted in
it, according to the Hong Kong regulator.  The SFC alleged that Oasis made orders to buy JAL shares it
subsequently canceled on the day in question, and that some of
its short sell orders were incorrectly labeled.  It also alleged that Oasis failed to return nearly 70
percent of the shares borrowed on the settlement day for the
short trades, with about half of these transactions having to be
covered by new shares bought in the public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  