-- 
Too Old for Murdoch Board Is Young Among Buffett’s Octogenarian Directors

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 
2011-09-15T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/too-old-for-murdoch-board-is-young-among-buffett-s-octogenarian-directors.html
Tom Perkins , who is leaving the
News Corp. board next month after saying two octogenarian
directors are too many, wouldn’t feel so old if he served at
Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   Buffett, 81, and Vice Chairman Charles Munger, 87, are
among six directors on the 12-member board at Omaha, Nebraska-
based Berkshire who are at least 80 years old. News Corp.
Director Kenneth Cowley, 76, is also stepping down at the firm’s
Oct. 21 annual meeting as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Rupert Murdoch , 80, adds 50-year-old James Breyer to the board.  Berkshire’s willingness to retain directors in their ninth
decades reflects Buffett’s influence on the firm and a national
trend toward older boards. About 15 percent of directors at
companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index are older than 69,
compared with 9.8 percent in 2002, according to data compiled by
executive-compensation benchmarking firm Equilar. Proxy filings
reviewed by Bloomberg showed 52 directors were age 80 or older.  “You can have great 85-year-olds and horrible 55-year-
olds,” said Anne Sheehan, director of corporate governance for
the $155 billion California State Teachers’ Retirement System.
“A lot of this depends on the 80-year-old because I’d love to
have  Warren Buffett  on any board.”  Boardroom age limits are less prevalent and set higher than
they were five years ago, according to the latest report on
director trends by executive recruitment company Spencer Stuart.
Companies use age limits to promote turnover and assure
investors that management is getting new ideas. Those goals may
instead be achieved through  term limits , Sheehan said.  ‘Refresh the Board’  “You have to refresh the board, whether it’s through term
limits or through age limits,” said  Charles Elson , director of
the University of Delaware’s Center for Corporate Governance.  Murdoch is adding a venture capitalist in Breyer, who also
serves on the boards of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Facebook Inc.
Former  News Corp. (NWSA)  Group General Counsel Arthur Siskind, 72, is
set to become the company’s oldest director after Murdoch. News
Corp.’s Natalie Bancroft, a 31-year-old opera singer, is the
youngest director at an S&P 500 firm.  Bancroft, whose family sold Dow Jones & Co. to News Corp.,
was among 17 directors under 40 at the time of the most recent
proxy filings, which were analyzed by Bloomberg. Mortimer Caplin
of Danaher Corp. at 95 is the oldest of 10 directors over 85.  “It’s a question of competence,” said Caplin, who  served 
as commissioner of the  Internal Revenue Service  from 1961 to
1964, in an interview. “In a way, I feel age is irrelevant.”  Older Boards  A total of 64 percent of the directors at S&P 500 firms
were 60 or older, and the average age was 62 years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg Rankings from the filings and company
websites. That compares with averages of 70 for Berkshire and 60
for News Corp.  In addition to Buffett and Munger, Berkshire’s octogenarian
directors include billionaires Walter Scott and David Gottesman,
principal at investment advisory firm First Manhattan Co. and
one of Berkshire’s largest investors. Scott, a former chairman
of construction company Peter Kiewit Sons’ Inc., joined the
Berkshire board in 1988 and in 2000 invested alongside Buffett’s
firm in the acquisition of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. He
turned 80 this year.  “There is a concern at a certain point, ‘Are you going to
rubber-stamp, are you going to stop paying attention?” said
Jill Fisch, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania Law
School who has written about  corporate governance . “But I don’t
think there is a bright line in terms of age.”  Keough, Murphy  Another Berkshire director, former Coca-Cola Co. President
Donald Keough, 85, is chairman of investment banking firm Allen
& Co., which hosts the annual Sun Valley retreat for media
moguls. Thomas Murphy, 86, helped build Capital Cities/ABC.
Berkshire’s youngest director is 48-year-old  Susan Decker , the
former president of Yahoo! Inc.  Gottesman, Keough and Murphy were appointed by Buffett, the
chairman and CEO, in 2003 as he expanded the board following the
enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley law. Directors including
Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill Gates , 55, and Comcast Corp.
Executive Vice President  Stephen Burke , 53, have since been
added. The board’s responsibilities, Buffett has said, include
settling on his successor, and  telling him  to step down if his
mind deteriorates.  “Humans age at greatly varying rates -- but sooner or
later their talents and vigor decline,” Buffett said in the
letter accompanying Berkshire’s 2005 annual report. “When their
abilities ebb, so usually do their powers of self-assessment.
Someone else often needs to blow the whistle. When that time
comes for me, our board will have to step up to the job.”  Integrity, Savvy  Buffett has written in his annual letters about the
qualifications and functions for the Berkshire board, said
Debbie Bosanek, an assistant to Buffett, in an e-mail. Directors
must have “very high integrity, business savvy, shareholder
orientation and a genuine interest in the company,” Berkshire
said in governance  guidelines  posted on its website. Neither
Berkshire nor News Corp. has set age or tenure limits.  “The company’s policy regarding director tenure and
retirement is determined on a case-by-case basis depending upon
various factors, including the age and experience of the
director and his or her history of service on the board,” News
Corp. said in its  statement  of corporate governance. Candidates
for director “must be individuals of personal integrity and
ethical character, and who value and appreciate these qualities
in others.”  Jack Horner , a News Corp. spokesman, declined to comment.  Buffett, Murdoch  Buffett and Murdoch have controlled their firms for decades
and brought family members onto the boards. Buffett has said his
son Howard, a Berkshire director, may become the next chairman.
Buffett’s late first wife, Susan, was on the board until 2004.
Murdoch’s sons, 40-year-old Lachlan and 38-year-old James, are
News Corp. directors.  Murdoch’s board has been under pressure as U.K. authorities
expand an investigation into the use of phone-hacking to gather
material for news stories. Murdoch and his son James were
questioned by a parliamentary committee.  Viet Dinh , 43, is the
independent director tasked with overseeing the company
committee cooperating with investigators.  Perkins, who turns 80 in January, has been on the News
Corp. board since 1996 and is a former director of Hewlett-
Packard Co. A founding partner of venture capital firm Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers, he quit the HP board in 2006 to
protest the company’s probe of media leaks. He said in a Sept. 2
interview that his News Corp. resignation is unrelated to the
phone-hacking probe.  Corporate Governance  “We agreed that having two 80-year-olds on the board
wasn’t great corporate governance,” Perkins said. “This has
nothing to do with current events.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
units of New York-based News Corp. in providing financial news
and information.  Buffett’s scorn for mandatory retirement grows stronger
every year, he  said  in 1995. The disdain extends to limits on
executives as well as directors. He encourages Berkshire
managers to work beyond the traditional  retirement age  of 65 and
has joked about convening séances after his death to preserve
his leadership. In 2003, Buffett praised John Holland, the then-
70-year-old head of Berkshire unit Fruit of the Loom, for
returning from retirement.  “I am trying to convince him to make his next retirement
coincident with mine, presently scheduled for five years after
my death -- a date subject, however, to extension,” Buffett
said in the letter accompanying Berkshire’s 2002 annual report.  Berkshire Leaders  Al Ueltschi, the 94-year-old founder and chairman emeritus
of Flight Safety International, sold his company to Buffett in
1996 and remained CEO  until  2004.  Berkshire is preparing for its next generation of leaders
and on Sept. 12 announced the hiring of hedge-fund manager Ted Weschler, who will help oversee investments with 40-year-old
Todd Combs, hired last year. Buffett will continue to manage
most of the portfolio “until his retirement,” Berkshire said
in a statement.  “That’s the first time I’ve seen that word,” said Andrew Kilpatrick, who wrote “Of Permanent Value: The Story of Warren
Buffett.” “I don’t think ‘retirement’ is in his vocabulary.”  The average age of an S&P 500 director has risen two years
since 2000 and the percentage of boards with a mandatory
retirement age has declined 5 percent in the last five years,
according to  Spencer Stuart . Company rules capping director ages
at 70 have dropped by half over the last five years, and limits
of 72 or older have risen 39 percent, Spencer Stuart said.  The companies with the oldest boards by average age, at
about 71, are Titanium Metals Corp., Vornado Realty Trust and
CBS Corp., headed by 88-year-old Chairman  Sumner Redstone ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sears Holdings Corp.
has the youngest, with an average age of about 51, followed by
Google Inc. and Netflix Inc. at about 53.  “The question is less how old they are and more how much
independent perspective they provide to management,” said
Charles Whitehead, an associate professor of law at Cornell Law
School in Ithaca,  New York . “Very often that’s a question of
character, not age.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in  Detroit  at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 