-- 
Morgan Stanley CMBS Sale a Boost for Banks Emptying Books: Credit Markets

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-09-15T16:11:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/morgan-stanley-cmbs-aids-banks-emptying-books-credit-markets.html
Wall Street banks seeking to unload
commercial mortgages amassed before  Europe ’s sovereign crisis
deepened and a slowing economy rattled markets are getting a
reprieve from rising yields after Morgan Stanley sold bonds
yesterday that demonstrated demand for the debt.  Morgan Stanley and Bank of America Corp. sold the top-
ranked 10-year portion of a $1.5 billion bond offering at 185
basis points more than the benchmark swap rate yesterday after
marketing the debt earlier at as much as 215, a person familiar
with the offering said. Similar debt that Deutsche Bank AG and
UBS AG sold last month paid a spread of 200.  Relative yields on securities tied to offices, hotels and
shopping centers have been hovering at about the highest levels
since June 2010 as investors shun riskier assets amid concern a
Greek default may infect European lenders and as economists
lower U.S. growth forecasts. Banks have pulled back from making
new loans to package into bonds as price swings erode profit
margins on the deals.  “This momentum certainly would encourage banks, but it
takes a few more pricings to demonstrate a trend,” said Jeffrey Berenbaum, a commercial-mortgage debt analyst at Citigroup Inc.
in  New York . “It’s a matter of taking a step back to see how
things settle before looking to continue lending.”  Barren Pipeline  While lenders are poised to sell as much as $6 billion of
stockpiled debt through October, the rest of the year may have
no offerings, Bank of America analysts said in a Sept. 9 report.
More than $24 billion of the debt has been raised in 2011,
following $11.5 billion last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  JPMorgan is marketing a $1 billion issue, according to
people familiar with the sale. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Citigroup Inc.,  Wells Fargo & Co ., Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and Deutsche Bank AG are also arranging transactions, the
people said.  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
corporate credit risk fell for a third day from a two-year high.
The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 2.4 basis points to a
mid-price of 126.4 basis points as of 12:03 p.m. in New York,
according to Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, has decreased from 135.9
basis points on Sept. 12, its highest level since July 2009.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Commercial Paper   U.S. commercial paper outstanding declined $22.6 billion
to $1.043 trillion in the week ended Sept. 14, the  Federal
Reserve  said today on its website. That’s the lowest level since
the market, which has fallen for nine straight weeks, reached
$1.042 trillion in the period ended Feb. 16, according to Fed
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The commercial-mortgage bond offering from Morgan Stanley
and Bank of America is composed of 63 loans on 76 properties,
the person said. Retail property debt accounts for 46.3 percent
of the offering and office debt is about 30 percent. Loans in
Texas and  California  account for 31.2 percent of the pool.  Wider Spreads  The securities were priced as German and French leaders
expressed support for  Greece  remaining in the euro monetary
union and speculation that  China  may help the region’s most-
indebted nations.  Political and economic turmoil drove relative yields on
top-ranked commercial-mortgage bonds to 303 basis points more
than Treasuries on Aug. 25, the most since June 2010, before
narrowing to 291 yesterday, according to Barclays Plc index
data.  Spreads climbed from this year’s low of 178 on April 26 as
Fed auctions of mortgage securities assumed in the rescue of
American International Group Inc. weighed on credit markets. The
selloff was exacerbated in July as the sovereign-debt crisis
engulfed  Italy  and lawmakers in Washington clashed over raising
the U.S. debt ceiling, leading S&P to cut America’s top credit
grade on Aug. 5.  Economists are lowering their growth forecasts for the U.S.
Gross domestic product will expand 1.7 percent this year, less
than the May forecast of 2.8 percent, according to a survey by
the National Association for Business Economics issued Sept. 12
in  Washington .  Delinquencies Fall  Commercial-mortgage bond sales have tumbled from a record
$234 billion in 2007. A dropoff in new lending may make it
harder for some borrowers to refinance maturing loans, according
to the Bank of America analysts led by  Alan Todd .  “Borrowers with less capital or less attractive properties
will obviously have fewer options,” the New York-based analysts
wrote. “It is likely that the trend of liquidating smaller
loans and modifying and extending larger loans will persist.”  Delinquencies, which climbed to a record 9.01 percent in
July, fell 36 basis points last month, according to  Fitch
Ratings .  Banks have increased the so-called credit enhancement,
which protects AAA bondholders from losses, to 30 percent on
deals offered since last month as investors pushed back on terms
and demanded higher yields. That compares with 16.875 percent on
a $1.48 billion transaction from Wells Fargo and Royal Bank of
 Scotland  in July.  ‘Nice Pickup’  The additional investor protection coupled with property
valuations in recent deals compares favorably with bonds sold in
2005, while offering a “nice pickup” in spread and yield, said
James Grady, a managing director at Deutsche Asset Management in
New York, including commercial-mortgage debt.  “This is a trade that makes sense and you will see
investors take advantage of this opportunity while it lasts,”
Grady said.  The slide in the safest classes of commercial-mortgage
bonds has made the debt attractive relative to other fixed-
income investments, Wells Fargo Chief Financial Officer Timothy J. Sloan said in a Sept. 12 conference call with analysts.  “Spreads blew out pretty significantly over the past few
months,” Sloan said, referring to the most senior portions of
commercial-mortgage securities. “That’s not the only class that
we think is attractive, but we definitely want to be able to
take advantage of opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  