-- 
Political Polarization Seen in Deficit Debate Is ‘Structural,’ Orszag Says

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-09-15T21:09:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/orszag-says-washington-s-political-polarization-is-structural-.html
Former White House budget chief
 Peter Orszag  said the political divisions that were behind the
deadlock over raising the U.S. debt limit are entrenched can’t
be quickly reversed.  “The polarization that you saw play out so vividly in the
debt-limit debate strikes me as being structural,” said Orszag,
vice chairman of global banking at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and former
director of the Office of Management and Budget in the Obama
administration. “It’s not an ephemeral thing.”  Orszag spoke today at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in
 New York , tied to the magazine’s ranking of the 50 most
influential leaders in global markets, finance, business and
government.  Wilbur Ross , the billionaire chairman and chief executive
officer of New York-based private-equity firm WL Ross & Co. LLC,
blamed the administration for “demonizing”  Wall Street  and
“business in general.”  “I’ve never quite understood why if you’re for employment
you would be against employers,” Ross said.  The U.S. needs to “accept the fact that we’re going to
have a recession and there’s going to be some grief near-term,”
he said. The nation must improve U.S. schools because the
“dumbing-down” of the population is a long-term problem, Ross
said.  Ralph Schlosstein, president and CEO of New York-based
investment bank  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , predicted “a long
period” of slow growth in gross domestic product.  Consumer Debt  “We’ve got debt in the consumer sector and debt in the
governmental sector that over time needs to shrink relative to
personal income and relative to GDP,” said Schlosstein,
speaking on the same panel as Ross and Orszag.  Orszag, a Bloomberg View columnist, said the polarization
in  Washington  “reflects deep structural forces in our society
in which we are physically and virtually surrounding ourselves
with like-minded people. And when you put like-minded people
together in a group, they go to extremes.”  After months of debate, U.S. lawmakers reached an 11th-hour
deal in August to extend the federal debt limit.  On the European debt crisis, Orszag said that if the
region’s banking system collapses, it’s “highly unlikely that
we will avoid significant effects here in the U.S.”  The region needs to double or triple the size of the 440
billion euro ($604 billion) European Financial Stability
Facility, the temporary bailout fund created to help countries
with liquidity problems bypass market financing, Orszag said.
 Germany  will probably have to “play a disproportionate role”
in funding an expanded EFSF, he said.  “Everyone is incredibly wary of allowing that first domino
to fall in  Europe , because once that falls it’s not easy to
limit it to one and prop up every other one,” Evercore’s
Schlosstein said. “And it becomes fantastically more expensive
once the first event has occurred.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  