-- 
China’s Stocks Decline as Inflation Concerns Overshadow Europe

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-15T07:59:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/most-chinese-stocks-advance-after-european-debt-concerns-ease.html
China’s stocks fell as concern the
government will maintain tight monetary policies overshadowed
speculation the European debt crisis may ease after Germany and
 France  said  Greece  will remain a member of the euro area.  China Minsheng Banking Corp. paced declines for lenders as
smaller banks started to set aside more reserves against margin
deposits today and a central bank survey showed households’
inflation expectations remain strong. Coal producer China
Shenhua Energy Co. dropped 0.9 percent on lower  oil prices . SAIC
Motor Corp. climbed to a two-week high after China’s biggest
automaker said it will buy assets from its parent and Citic
Securities Co. advised investors to buy auto stocks.  “The euro turmoil has eased temporarily and that will
increase the appetite for global risk assets,” said  Zhang Ling ,
general manager at Shanghai River Fund Management Co.
“Inflation persists and tight policies will remain in place.
Valuations will be held back but we are close to the bottom.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, fell 5.77 points, or 0.2 percent, to
2,479.05 at the 3 p.m. close, erasing an earlier 0.5 percent
gain. About six stocks slid for every five that rose. The  CSI
300 Index (SHSZ300)  slipped 0.2 percent to 2,729.05.  The Shanghai gauge has slumped 12 percent this year,
extending last year’s 14 percent plunge, as the government took
steps to cool inflation that’s at an almost three-year high. The
stock gauge is valued at 11.4 times estimated profit, the lowest
on record, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg dating
back to January 2006.  Inflation Outlook  Traders of interest-rate swaps are betting borrowing costs
will be raised once more in the next year after five increases
in the past 12 months. China has also expanded the amount banks
have to keep in reserve to include margin deposits.  Chinese households’ inflation expectations rebounded this
quarter and the number complaining that property prices are too
high rose to a record, a central bank survey showed.  The People’s Bank of  China ’s report found 49.6 percent
believe consumer prices will rise in the next quarter, 4.1
percentage points more than in the previous three months. An
index of inflation expectations also climbed, according to the
survey posted to the central bank’s website today. Today’s
report indicates it may be too early for policy makers to wind
down monetary tightening.  Reserve Requirements  Minsheng Banking, the nation’s first privately owned bank,
fell 1.7 percent to 5.77 yuan. Huaxia Bank Co., partly owned by
Deutsche Bank AG, lost 1.4 percent to 10.47 yuan. Shanghai
Pudong Development Bank Co., the Chinese partner of Citigroup
Inc., dropped 1.7 percent to 8.95 yuan.  Small- and medium-sized banks will start today to place
more than 70 billion yuan ($11 billion) of margin deposits at
the central bank, Shanghai Securities News reported. It’s harder
for smaller banks to extend credit with earnings at Shenzhen
Development Bank Co., Huaxia Bank and Bank of Nanjing Co.
affected most, the newspaper said.  A measure of 24 energy stocks retreated 0.5 percent, the
most among the CSI 300’s industry groups. Shenhua, the nation’s
largest coal producer, dropped 0.9 percent to 25.40 yuan. China
Coal Energy Co., the second biggest, lost 0.9 percent to 9.55
yuan.  Crude for October delivery decreased as much as 90 cents to
$88.01 a barrel in New York electronic trading on concern demand
will falter amid rising stockpiles and signs of slowing economic
growth. The contract slid 1.4 percent yesterday.  China Assistance  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said they are “convinced” Greece will remain in
the euro area, according to a statement issued by leaders of the
two nations after they spoke to Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  by telephone.  Papandreou committed to meet deficit-reduction targets
demanded as a condition for an international bailout, according
to statements from governments in Athens, Berlin and Paris,
easing concern Greece may default on its debt.  China is willing to buy the bonds of nations hit by the
sovereign debt crisis,  Zhang Xiaoqiang , a vice chairman of the
National Development and Reform Commission, said in an interview
with the media at the  World Economic Forum  in Dalian yesterday.
Premier  Wen Jiabao  made similar remarks earlier, according to a
transcript distributed on the planning agency’s website
yesterday evening.  Auto Sales  SAIC Motor gained 2.3 percent to 15.47 yuan, its highest
close since Aug. 29. SAIC will issue 1.78 billion shares to swap
assets worth 29.1 billion yuan with its parent, the company said
in a statement.  Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co., a unit of China’s biggest
light-truck exporter, rose 0.6 percent to 7.97 yuan. Tianjin FAW
Xiali Automobile Co. added 1.9 percent to 8.15 yuan.  An 8 percent month-on-month increase in August auto sales
indicated the worst is over and sales will improve with
September marking the start of the peak season for auto sales,
analysts led by Li Chunbo at Citic Securities wrote in a report.  Major listed automakers will report as much as 20 percent
profit increases this year, the report said. Their multiples of
between 8 times and 10 times estimated earnings are already at
the historical bottom, it said.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  