-- 
Tougher Deficit, Debt Rules Agreed to by European Negotiators

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-09-15T14:33:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/tougher-deficit-debt-rules-agreed-to-by-european-negotiators.html
European Union negotiators struck
an agreement to toughen enforcement of rules to limit budget
deficits in a bid to prevent a repeat of the Greece-triggered
debt crisis.  Representatives of the EU’s 27 governments and the European
Parliament agreed to make sanctions more automatic against euro-
area nations that breach deficit and debt limits.  The EU is seeking to strengthen the threat of fiscal
penalties that have never been imposed in the euro’s 12-year
history, with  European Central Bank  President  Jean-Claude
Trichet  leading calls for more effective rules.  Greece , which
sparked the debt crisis last year by requiring a 110 billion-
euro ($153 billion) rescue, has gone the whole period with a
deficit over the limit.  “With this package, responsible economic and budgetary
policies can be assured,” Corien Wortmann-Kool, a Dutch
negotiator for the EU Parliament, said in a statement today in
Strasbourg, France. The deal must still be approved by the full
736-seat Parliament in coming weeks as well as by the bloc’s
national governments.  The penalties are the central pillar of a six-piece package
of legislation on economic management that includes closer
monitoring of national competitiveness. The deal makes it easier
to impose sanctions on euro-area governments that let their
budget deficits exceed 3 percent of gross domestic product and
overall debt go beyond 60 percent of GDP.  Penalties  starting with interest-bearing deposits could be
imposed before a country breaches the limit, with the money
confiscated if the government balks at repeated EU demands to
fix the budget. In the compromise, the Parliament negotiators
accepted a demand by EU governments to add a fourth layer of
political scrutiny over any members deviating from their targets
before the imposition of fines.  In exchange, the Parliament won a demand to give the
European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, the power to
return within a month of any rejection of a proposal for
sanctions to recommend them again. In addition, the voting rules
in such a scenario would make it harder for governments to block
the sanctions.  Under the original draft legislation, proposed by the
commission a year ago, fines were to be applied after no more
than three votes by euro-area governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France , at
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  