-- 
Thousands Come Clean as IRS Gets $2.7 Billion

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-09-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/thousands-come-clean-to-irs-in-offshore-tax-disclosure-program.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  has
taken in a total of $2.7 billion from holders of offshore bank
accounts, the agency said as it announced that 12,000 taxpayers
responded to the second round of a partial amnesty program.  IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman said yesterday that the
agency’s emphasis on international tax enforcement prompted more
people than anticipated to accept penalties and reveal their
accounts.  “The results we’re seeing today were unthinkable just a
few short years ago,” he said on a conference call with
reporters. “The world has clearly changed.”  The results mark the continuation of the IRS’s beefed-up
enforcement efforts, which include the voluntary programs as
well as prosecutions with the  Department of Justice .  “You’d have to be living in a hole not to know that the
U.S. government is really focused on offshore  tax evasion ,
getting better at it,” Shulman said.  He declined to comment on U.S. efforts to obtain account
information from Swiss banks, other than to confirm that the
U.S. and Swiss governments are discussing the issue.  “This effort was never about  Switzerland ,” Shulman said.
“A lot of Swiss banks aren’t taking these kinds of accounts
anymore, and they’re really trying hard to move forward.”  Deferred Prosecution  In 2009, the U.S. and  UBS AG (UBSN)  reached a deferred-prosecution
agreement under which the bank paid $780 million. Since then,
the U.S. has been prosecuting clients of UBS, HSBC Holdings Plc
and other banks around the world.  Bloomberg News reported in June that information from
hundreds of interviews of U.S. account holders in the voluntary
disclosure program helped form the basis of an indictment of
four Europe-based bankers at Credit Suisse Group AG in February
and a U.S. civil action against HSBC Holdings Plc.  Tax lawyers differed over whether the IRS would offer a
third program of reduced penalties to offshore bank clients.  Richard Sapinski, a lawyer at Sills, Cummis & Gross P.C. in
 Newark ,  New Jersey , said another partial amnesty program would
undermine tax compliance.  “They probably would be very hesitant to have a third
program,” Sapinski said. “It would be like catching a bus. You
miss one and you wait for the next one.”  William Sharp, a partner with  Sharp Kemm P.A.  of Tampa,
Florida and Zurich, said the IRS may not have a choice.  10 Banks  Sharp said U.S. authorities are poised to take enforcement
action against as many as 10 banks, which he estimated could
yield tens of thousands of previously undisclosed accounts held
by U.S. citizens.  “It’s a function of the numbers; it’s a matter of sheer
administrative necessity,” Sharp said. “There’s going to be a
huge run for voluntary disclosure.”  The voluntary program allowed U.S. taxpayers with offshore
accounts to come forward and pay back taxes and penalties to
likely avoid prosecution.  The program’s initial round in 2009 yielded $2.2 billion in
taxes, interest and penalties from 15,000 taxpayers, Shulman
announced yesterday.  An additional 3,000 taxpayers came forward after that
program ended, and 12,000 more declared accounts this year under
the 2011 program, which had a deadline of Sept. 9 and less
generous terms than the previous version. Shulman said the 2011
program has yielded $500 million so far, and he expects that to
increase because the total doesn’t include many penalties.  Shulman declined to discuss the geographic distribution of
those who participated in the 2011 program.  The total number of filers was “more than I expected in
the second round,” said  Mark Matthews , a Washington-based tax
attorney at Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP and a former IRS deputy
commissioner. Overall, “a lot of practitioners think this was
one of the most successful tax-compliance actions in history,”
he said.  Matthews said he’d like the IRS to issue guidance now that
the disclosure initiative has ended.  “What do we do now?” Matthews asked. Those who have come
forward, he said, are “still only a fraction of the people who
have these accounts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  