-- 
Lawmakers Seek FHFA Urgency on Obama Foreclosure Plan

-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-09-16T15:10:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/house-lawmakers-seek-fhfa-urgency-on-obama-foreclosure-proposal.html
(Corrects names and number of signers starting in first
paragraph of story published Sept. 15.)  The regulator overseeing  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac  is dragging its feet on a plan to help
homeowners refinance into cheaper mortgages, members of the
House of Representatives said in a letter.  The two lawmakers, both Democrats, sent the letter today to
Edward DeMarco, acting director of the Federal Housing Finance
Agency, requesting that he meet with them after what they called
a “disappointing” meeting with lower-level FHFA staff.  “We expressed our profound frustration with the apparent
lack of urgency shown by your agency and by agencies within the
Administration in addressing the foreclosure crisis,”
Representatives Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland and Dennis Cardoza of  California  wrote in the letter. Cummings is the
leading Democrat on the House Oversight Committee.  In a speech to Congress on the economy last week, President
Obama Barack said he wanted to give more homeowners a way to
take advantage of record-low  interest rates  to spur the housing
market and boost  consumer spending .  The Obama administration and the FHFA have been in
discussions about how to do that by fixing problems in an
 existing  two-year-old program for borrowers who owe more than
their homes are worth.  DeMarco stopped short of promising to deliver on the
president’s proposal in a statement last week. He said the FHFA
must determine whether the program can be expanded without more
losses for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which have been under
U.S. conservatorship since 2008.  “We made very clear that we want action now, and that the
President’s address was a call to action -- to Members of
Congress, the Administration, the banking community, and
independent agencies like yours,” the lawmakers said in their
letter. “It quickly became obvious, however, that a meeting
directly with you is necessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in  Washington  at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 