-- 
Panetta Says Pakistan Haven for Afghan Attacks Is ‘Unacceptable’

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-09-15T04:28:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/pakistan-s-use-as-haven-after-afghan-attacks-unacceptable-panetta-says.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
vowed action to stop a Pakistan-based militant group from
staging “unacceptable” attacks in  Afghanistan  and then fleeing
back to their haven across the border.  “I’m not going to talk about how we’re going to respond,”
Panetta told reporters traveling with him yesterday to San
Francisco. “I’ll just let you know we are not going to allow
these kinds of attacks to go on.”  U.S. officials have pinned a weekend truck bomb attack and
this week’s assault on the U.S. Embassy and NATO coalition
headquarters in Kabul, the Afghan capital, on the Jalaluddin Haqqani group, a guerrilla faction with ties to Pakistan’s
military intelligence agency. The network operates largely from
a sanctuary in  Pakistan ’s borderland with Afghanistan.  The Obama administration has increased diplomatic and
financial pressure on Pakistan to move more quickly and
aggressively against militant networks that the U.S. says are
targeting the country’s own people as well as its neighbors.
Relations fell to a new low after American special operations
forces killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in a May raid
within Pakistan without that government’s knowledge.  “I’m very concerned about the Haqqani attacks because, No.
1, they’re killing people, killing our forces,” Panetta said.
“No. 2, they escape back into what is a safe haven in Pakistan,
and that’s unacceptable.”  Panetta and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  are in
 California  for a day of annual talks today with their Australian
counterparts.  Decisive Action  Clinton, visiting the Pakistani capital Islamabad in May
for talks that included Admiral  Michael Mullen , chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the U.S. expects Pakistan’s leaders
to take “decisive” action against extremist groups such as the
Haqqani guerrillas in North Waziristan.  “Many of the world’s most vicious terrorists have been
living in Pakistan,” Clinton said in a visit after the bin
Laden raid. “There is much more work that is required and it is
urgent.”  In Afghanistan, the U.S. and its coalition partners are
fighting the Taliban and associated groups whose leaders operate
from the tribal regions of Pakistan.  The weekend truck bombing created a crater 20 feet (6
meters) long and 9 feet deep, said Panetta, who took office July
1 after serving as director of the Central Intelligence Agency,
where he helped lead the bin Laden raid.  Looking for Evidence  The U.S. suspects the Haqqani network also was behind the
attack two days ago on the embassy, and continues to look for
evidence that might prove the link, Panetta said. U.S.
Ambassador  Ryan Crocker  said the assault didn’t seriously
endanger his embassy.  “Time and again, we’ve urged the Pakistanis to exercise
their influence over these kinds of attacks from the Haqqanis,”
the defense chief said. “We’ve made very little progress in
that area.”  Afghan and coalition forces did manage to quell the
firefight, Panetta said, repeating official U.S. assertions that
the assault was more an indicator of Taliban weakness than
strength. He said he was conducting an unrelated secure video
conference with General John Allen, the top U.S. and NATO
commander in Afghanistan, when the standoff was under way in the
streets of Kabul.  “Anytime they can make their way into Kabul, into the
capital, that’s cause for concern,” Panetta said. “At the same
time, the forces did respond and respond quickly. Casualties
were limited and we were able to basically defeat their
effort.”  Panetta said Allen assured him the coalition was continuing
to reduce levels of violence overall in Afghanistan and
“seriously weaken” the Taliban.  “His view, and I share it, is that these kind of attacks -
- sporadic attacks and assassination attempts -- are more a
reflection of the fact that they’re losing their ability to be
able to attack our forces on a broader scale,” Panetta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  San Francisco  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  