-- 
Palestinians See Slim Hopes for Averting Showdown on Statehood

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-09-15T23:50:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/palestinians-face-showdown-on-statehood.html
Maen Areikat, the Palestinians’ top
envoy to the U.S., said he doubts  Israel  will offer concessions
to revive peace talks and avert a showdown over Palestinian
plans to seek greater recognition at the United Nations next
week.  Areikat, the Palestinian Liberation Organization’s
representative, said in an interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s
Washington bureau that he “would very much doubt that at this
point” the Palestinians will drop their bid to seek statehood
recognition in some form at the UN. A change would take
“something significant” emerging from a meeting between U.S.
envoys and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas in the
West Bank city of  Ramallah , he said.  The Obama administration, in support of Israel, opposes the
Palestinian plan to seek statehood status in the UN. Issues like
borders, water and the fate of Jerusalem must be worked out in
negotiations and “will not be resolved if some other route is
taken at the  United Nations ,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday in  San Francisco .  Areikat didn’t rule out a “last-minute” shift from the
Palestinian plan to pursue full recognition by the 15-member UN
 Security Council  -- where the U.S. has vowed to exercise its
veto power. Another option would be to seek lesser, “non-member
state” status from the full 193-member General Assembly, where
no one country has veto power.  Areikat denied assertions by Israel and the U.S. that the
statehood campaign at the UN is meant to embarrass, isolate or
delegitimize Israel. Neither is it meant, he insisted, to anger
the U.S., which last year was the largest single donor to the
cash-strapped  Palestinian Authority  government.  U.S. Aid  U.S. assistance to the Palestinians for 2010 totaled $740
million, directly and through organizations including UN aid
agencies, according to a State Department fact sheet.  Israel’s champions in the  U.S. Congress  have threatened to
cut aid to the Palestinian Authority as punishment for seeking a
UN vote. That would have the unintended effect of hurting U.S.
and Israeli interests, Areikat said.  “If they think by cutting off aid they will be able to
influence the Palestinian political position, they are wrong,”
Areikat said. Instead, he said, such a move would “strengthen
those who are opposed to peaceful coexistence with Israel,”
including the Palestinian militant group Hamas, which the U.S.
and many allies consider a terrorist organization.  Areikat said the Palestinians are grateful that the Obama
“administration itself did not implicitly or explicitly,
directly or indirectly, threaten to take any punitive
measures.”  Israeli View  Israeli Ambassador to  Washington  Michael Oren called the
Palestinians’ UN gambit a unilateral move set on
“delegitimizing Israel internationally.”  “We share the Obama administration’s position that only
direct negotiations can lead to a viable two-state solution,”
Oren said.  Areikat dismissed the assertion that a declaration of a
Palestinian state at the UN will undermine negotiations.  “There are no negotiations to start with. What
negotiations are we talking about?” he asked.  Last September, President  Barack Obama  invited Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Abbas to Washington in an
unsuccessful effort to revive talks that had collapsed when
Netanyahu rejected the Palestinians’ demand to extend a partial
10-month construction freeze on Jewish settlements in the West
Bank.  Israeli Settlements  Netanyahu, while refusing to freeze settlements, has
repeatedly said he is open to restarting peace talks if they are
without preconditions. The Israeli prime minister said yesterday
he will travel to  New York  next week to address the UN General
Assembly’s annual meeting to express opposition to the
Palestinian bid.  “I will speak the truth -- the truth that Israel wants
peace and has been asking for direct negotiations to achieve
peace for the past 2 1/2 years,” Netanyahu said at a press
conference in his  Jerusalem  residence.  Ariekat said a UN vote in favor of a Palestinian state
would “morally, psychologically, politically and legally”
boost the Palestinians’ bargaining position.  Currently, Israel has “the keys to everything,” he
asserted. “We are under their total control. Our president
needs a permit to leave the country.”  U.S. envoys David Hale and Dennis Ross are in the Mideast
to seek a compromise that would restart peace talks and avoid a
confrontation over a Palestinian resolution.  International Court  The Israeli and the U.S. governments are concerned that the
Palestinians may seek to use UN recognition to achieve legal
standing to pursue cases against Israel at the  International
Criminal Court  or the  International Court of Justice . While
Areikat wouldn’t rule out the possibility, he insisted that the
Palestinian Authority has no “immediate” plans to do so.  As for “what will happen in the future if Israel continues
to violate our rights,” he said, “that’s another story.”
President Barack Obama has tried his best to restart talks while
Netanyahu protects the status quo, he said.  A flurry of renewed diplomatic activity led by  Tony Blair ,
representative of the so-called Quartet mediating group,
comprised of the U.S., UN, European Union and  Russia , has
brought nothing fresh that would persuade Palestinians to change
their plans, the Palestinian Authority minister, Riad Malki,
said in the  West Bank  city of Ramallah.  Solution ‘Long Overdue’  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told reporters in New York
yesterday that “ending the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and
achieving a two-state solution is long overdue.”  “I am asking them to enter into meaningful negotiations,
and the international community has a duty to create some
conditions favorable to this,” Ban said. “That means Israel has
a duty to create such conditions.”  Abbas will present the application to the UN Secretary-
General for consideration at the Security Council after his
speech to the General Assembly, which is scheduled for Sept. 23,
Malki said.  The Palestinian Authority’s envoy to the UN,  Riyad Mansour ,
told reporters in New York that Palestinians “are still
studying all options and all ideas before we make the final
decision as to what options we will follow, whether it is the
Security Council or the General Assembly.”  A U.S. decision to use its veto will “put them in a
confrontational position not only vis-a-vis us but vis-à-vis the
overwhelming majority of the world,” Malki said.  About 140 of the 193 member states are likely to support a
bid for greater recognition in the General Assembly, Palestinian
negotiator  Nabil Shaath  said Sept. 4. There is no veto in the
General Assembly.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  