-- 
Palestinians Will Seek Full UN Membership at General Assembly, Abbas Says

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-09-16T19:08:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/palestinians-to-apply-for-united-nations-membership-sept-23-malki-says.html
Palestinians “have a legitimate
right” to join the  United Nations  and will go there next week
seeking full membership, Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas said today in a televised address.  Full membership as a nation-state would require approval by
the UN  Security Council , and the U.S. has said it would veto
such a resolution. Obama administration envoys  David Hale  and
Dennis Ross met with Abbas this week in an effort to forge a
compromise that would avoid such a confrontation.  “We will come back to discuss the remaining issues, but
first we want to obtain full membership at the Security
Council,” Abbas said, speaking on Palestinian television from
Ramallah. “We are realistic. We do not expect to gain
independence right away.”  The Palestinians will present their application for full
membership at the UN General Assembly meeting in New York Sept.
23, Palestinian Authority Foreign Minister Riad Malki said
yesterday.  Israel  also opposes such a move.  “Peace is not achieved in unilateral procedures at the
United Nations,” Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said
in response to Abbas’s speech, in a text message sent by his
office. “Peace will be achieved only in direct negotiations
with Israel.”  Negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians broke down
a year ago after Netanyahu declined to extend a freeze on new
construction on West Bank settlements, which Abbas said was a
condition for the talks to continue.  U.S. Pressure  The U.S. has been pressing Abbas to drop the resolution in
order to focus on ways to resume peace talks with Israel.  “We’re well aware of the Palestinians’ position on this,”
State Department spokesman Mark Toner said today in  Washington .
“Our efforts right now remain on getting them back to the
negotiating table.  A U.S. veto in the  Security Council  wouldn’t bar the
Palestinians from seeking a vote in the larger General Assembly
to upgrade the Palestinian Authority’s observer status from an
“entity” to “non-member state.”  The elevation to non-member state would place the
Palestinians in a position similar to that of the  Holy See , the
government of the Roman Catholic Church, enabling them to sign
international treaties. That could include having cases heard in
the  International Criminal Court . Palestinian officials have
said they expect to gain an overwhelming majority of the vote if
they go to the General Assembly.  Palestinian Intentions  The Palestinian UN initiative is meant to “delegitimize
Israel’s policies and occupation,” yet not delegitimize or
isolate Israel itself, Abbas said. He said that after getting
statehood recognition, the Palestinians would continue to work
toward a peace deal.  The militant Islamic Hamas group, which is designated a
terrorist organization by the U.S., Israel and the European
Union, criticized the UN initiative, saying it is tainted “by
suspicions and doubts.”  Hamas, which controls the  Gaza Strip  and opposes any
permanent peace deal with Israel, said in an e-mailed statement
the move is an unilateral step that overrides a reconciliation
agreement it signed with Abbas’s Fatah faction last May, and is
“similar to the previous styles of the so-called peaceful
agreements that harmed the interests of the Palestinians.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 