-- 
Penn Endowment Rises 19% On Stock Gains

-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 
2011-09-15T20:26:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/penn-endowment-increases-19-percent-on-stocks-natural-resources.html
The  University of Pennsylvania , the
 Ivy League  school founded by  Benjamin Franklin , said its
endowment gained 19 percent in the year ended June 30, helped by
rising stock markets.  Equities were the “most significant contributor” to the
$6.58 billion fund, followed by natural resources, private
equity, hedge funds and high-yield bonds, Kristin Gilbertson,
the Philadelphia school’s chief investment officer, wrote in an
e-mail today.  Endowments and foundations gained an average of 20 percent
in the year ended June 30, their best performance in 14 years,
according to consultant Wilshire Associates Inc. That lags
behind the 31 percent rise, including dividends, of the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index.  The endowment, most of which is invested in the associated
investments fund, increased across all asset classes over the
past year, according to Gilbertson.  The endowment rose an average of 4 percent annually for the
three years ending June 30, where all categories gained except
for real estate. Investment performance contributed more than $1
billion to the endowment, before $252 million in spending and
new gifts of $175 million, Gilbertson said.  Penn’s investments dropped 16 percent in the year ended
June 2009, when endowments had record losses, less than the 27
percent and 25 percent declines of Harvard and Yale, the two
richest universities. Penn held less in private equity and real
estate and more in stocks, “substantial” cash, short-term U.S.
treasuries and a “defensive” mix of  hedge funds , according to
a 2010 memo from  Howard Marks , chairman of Oaktree Capital
Management LP and the former chairman of Penn’s investment
committee.  The endowment gained 13 percent in the year ended June 30
2010, helped by investments in credit and public equities,
Gilbertson said a year ago. Penn is one of the eight private
schools in the northeastern U.S. that make up the Ivy League.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in  New York  at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 