-- 
Perry Was Right on HPV Vaccine, Schools Should Follow Suit: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-15T00:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/perry-was-right-on-requiring-hpv-vaccine-schools-should-follow-suit-view.html
Imagine that scientists invented a
vaccine that was proved to safely prevent cancer. Imagine that
it was licensed and recommended in the U.S. for all
preadolescent girls and available to boys as well, yet five
years later only  11 percent  of children were receiving the full
course of shots.  That’s the actual situation with the human papillomavirus
vaccine, the subject of recent  debate  among Republican
presidential candidates. Texas Governor  Rick Perry , the front-
runner, has been clobbered by rivals for trying to make the
vaccine mandatory in his state for sixth-grade girls unless
their parents opted out.  The campaign fireworks have distracted attention from the
opportunity to consider just what public policy toward the HPV
vaccine should be. Perry’s motives have been questioned given
that he received at least $23,500 in campaign contributions from
Merck & Co., maker of one of two HPV vaccines. But his policy,
overturned by the Texas Legislature, was sound. It was simply an
update of the usual requirement by states that schoolchildren be
up to date on vaccinations against certain infectious diseases.  HPV should be on every state’s list for girls, with an opt-
out provision for parents who object. So far, only  Virginia  and
the  District of Columbia  have added it.  Student Inoculations  Schools are justified in requiring immunizations because
students pass diseases among one another. Granted, HPV is not
spread as easily as the viruses that cause chickenpox and
whooping cough. But it is communicable. The most common sexually
transmitted infection, HPV is spread through oral sex, genital
to genital contact, and intercourse. Infection is the  primary
cause  of cervical cancer and also leads to cancers of the anus,
penis and throat.  Having schools require the shots would address the three
main reasons parents said they didn’t get their kids vaccinated
against HPV in a 2010 study by the Centers of Disease Control
and Prevention: They didn’t think the child needed the vaccine,
they didn’t know enough about it, or the child wasn’t sexually
active. In fact, kids should receive the inoculation before they
begin to have sex; the vaccine offers no protection for people
already exposed to HPV. For that reason, the CDC recommends
immunization at 11 or 12 for girls and at 9 for boys.  When children are that young, many if not most of their
parents have a hard time acknowledging that, fairly soon, the
kids could be fooling around. Their inability to do so denies
children protection from potentially deadly cancers later in
life. That problem can be solved by making the HPV vaccine just
another thing to take care of before school starts.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 