-- 
Peru’s Quickening Growth Won’t Head Off Stimulus Effort

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-09-15T20:39:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/peru-s-quickening-growth-won-t-head-off-stimulus-effort-1-.html
Peru  plans to tap its first fiscal
surplus in three years to protect the Andean nation from the
global economic slowdown even amid domestic growth that’s faster
than analysts and the central bank had been expecting.  Gross domestic product rose 6.5 percent in July from a year
earlier, the national statistics agency said today. Economists
predicted growth of 5.3 percent, according to the median
estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. GDP expanded
5.3 percent in June, the least in 17 months.  The government will implement stimulus measures amounting
to 0.5 percent of GDP to protect the Andean country from
stalling growth in  Europe  and the U.S, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said yesterday. The central bank signaled last week it
is ready to cut  interest rates  for the first time since 2009 if
the domestic economy weakens and global financial markets
deteriorate.  “There is so much uncertainty that it’s hard to gauge when
is the right moment to act,” said Eduardo Moron, an economics
professor at the Universidad del Pacifico and a former deputy
economy minister, in a telephone interview from Lima. “But if
you’re going to address the risk of slowing global growth, it’s
better to act now because implementing the fiscal measures will
take time.”  Private Investment  Booming private investment fueled an 8.8 percent rise in
GDP last year, making Peru the region’s fastest-growing economy
over the past five years with average 7.2 percent annual
expansion.  Peru’s sol strengthened 0.1 percent to 2.7300 per  U.S.
dollar  at 4:11 p.m. in  New York , from 2.7315 yesterday. The
yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 5.57 percent, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  Peru’s policy makers are seeking to bolster the commodity-
dependent economy amid concern slower global growth may
exacerbate a deceleration in private investment that followed
former army rebel Ollanta Humala’s victory in a June 5
presidential runoff.  Business sentiment improved in August after Humala re-
appointed central bank President Julio Velarde and formed a
business-friendly cabinet, said Pedro Tuesta, a Washington-based
senior Latin America economist at 4Cast Inc.  ‘Clear and Harmonious’  Still, Humala’s pledges to enlarge state companies to give
the government a stronger role in industries including
aerospace, oil and gas and banking are making some companies
reluctant to invest, said Moron.  “Now, more than ever, the government needs to deliver a
clear and harmonious discourse about its plans,” he said.  Higher public spending will be financed by rising tax
revenue from gold and copper exports, which will allow the
government to post a budget surplus of more than 1 percent of
GDP even after the stimulus, Castilla said. The nation last
posted a fiscal surplus in 2008.  Legislation sent to congress yesterday will give the
government a greater share of mining profits while respecting
company contracts and ensuring the industry proceeds with more
than $40 billion of investment in new mines, Castilla said.  Cia. de Minas Buenaventura, the country’s biggest precious
metals producer, approved July 27 a $4.8 billion gold and copper
project in northern Peru after Humala named his cabinet and
pledged to respect contracts and lure more mining investment.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s biggest miner of the metal,
said this week it is investing $550 million in two mines in
Peru. Xstrata Plc will invest $1.5 billion by 2013 to build the
Antapaccay copper mine, the government said yesterday.  Fishing Output  July’s GDP was lifted by a surge in fishing output, which
rose 76 percent from a year earlier after declining 16 percent
in June, the statistics agency said. Agriculture growth
quickened to 8 percent from 3.7 percent in June.  Fishing rebounded after a seasonal ban on some species was
lifted, said  Hugo Perea , chief economist at  BBVA Banco
Continental , in a phone interview from Lima.  “Construction and manufacturing activities will continue
to post a feeble performance over the next months, as private
investment will take some time to reach pre-election levels,”
 Roberto Flores , an economist at Lima brokerage Inteligo SAB,
said in an e-mailed report to clients today. “The bleak
external picture could delay such recovery.”  Construction output fell for a second month in July, while
manufacturing expanded 3.9 percent.  Growth Forecasts  Though July’s output exceeded the central bank’s estimate
of 5.8 percent, the pace of growth is set to ease, leading the
central bank to cut its GDP forecast for 2012, bank president
Julio Velarde said today.  Growth this year will be 6.3 percent, down from a June. 17
estimate of 6.5 percent, Velarde said. GDP will probably rise
5.7 percent next year, down from an estimate of 6 percent
earlier this month and the 6.5 percent forecast in June, he
said.  The central bank kept its benchmark rate on hold for a
fourth month last week even as a surge in grain and energy
prices in the first half of this year and rising domestic demand
kept inflation at a two-year high of 3.35 percent in August.  Slower inflation in the second half will help the annual
rate converge toward the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent
target range next year, the bank’s research director Adrian Armas said Sept. 9.  Velarde said he doesn’t see the increased government
outlays spurring inflationary pressures.  “It’s a very small, moderate package,” Velarde told
reporters in  Lima . “Minister Castilla is being prudent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 