-- 
Manufacturing in Philadelphia-Area Contracted in September

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-15T14:24:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/philadelphia-area-manufacturing-shrinks-at-slower-pace-in-september-index.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region contracted for a second straight month in September as
sales deteriorated.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index improved to minus 17.5 from minus 30.7 last month.
Economists forecast the gauge would rise to minus 15, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings less
than zero signal contraction in the area covering eastern
 Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and Delaware.  Manufacturers may keep production below the pace seen
earlier this year as a stagnant labor market and limited
 consumer spending  weaken prospects for stronger economic growth.
The European debt crisis and a slowing global economy may
further restrain U.S. production.  “Manufacturing is just moving sideways,” Michael Brown,
an economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , said before the report. “We’re not seeing a lot of
growth nor are we seeing a lot of contraction right now.”  Estimates for the manufacturing gauge from the 60
economists surveyed ranged from minus 25 to zero.  Stocks rallied as a package of dollar loans for European
banks assuaged concern about the  U.S. economy . The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.9 percent to 1,199.03 at 10:21 a.m.
in New York.  The report showed the Philadelphia Fed’s shipments gauge
decreased to minus 22.8 in September, the lowest since April
2009, from minus 13.9. The new orders measure rose to minus 11.3
this month from minus 26.8 in August.  The index of prices paid increased to 23.2 from 12.8 the
prior month, while the measure of prices received improved to
0.9 from minus 9.  Factory Employment  The employment index in the Philadelphia Fed report
increased to 5.8 from a reading last month of minus 5.2. A
measure of the average workweek was little changed at minus 13.7
in September after minus 14.4.  Individual measures in the index don’t contribute to the
headline reading, so some economists consider it a gauge of
sentiment among manufacturers.  Other reports today showed more Americans than projected
filed claims for jobless benefits, consumer prices rose more
than forecast and New York-area manufacturing contracted more
than estimated.  Applications for  unemployment benefits  unexpectedly rose
last week to the highest level since the end of June.    Jobless
claims climbed by 11,000 to 428,000 in the week ended Sept. 10
that included the Labor Day holiday, figures from the Labor
Department showed in  Washington .  Consumer Prices  The department also said the cost of living rose in August
as consumers paid more for food, energy and housing, the Labor
Department also said. The consumer-price index increased 0.4
percent after a 0.5 percent gain in July. Costs minus fuel and
food climbed 0.2 percent for a second month.  A Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  report showed
manufacturing in the region contracted at a faster pace in
September. The New York Fed’s general economic index dropped to
minus 8.8, the weakest reading since November, from minus 7.7 in
August. Readings less than zero signal companies in the so-
called Empire State Index, which covers New York, northern New
Jersey, and southern  Connecticut , are cutting back.  Economists monitor Philadelphia and New York Fed factory
reports for clues about the Institute for Supply Management
national figures on manufacturing during the month. The ISM will
release its report on Oct. 3.  Global Economy  Deteriorating economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad
have threatened to curb manufacturing, which helped lead the
recovery.  “Sovereign debt concerns in  Europe , inflation pressures in
 China  and a continued weak housing market and persistent high
unemployment here in U.S. are causing uncertainty around the
pace of global growth,” Howard Ungerleider, senior vice
president of  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  said at a Sept. 13 investor
conference. “The global economy, while continuing to recover,
will do so at an uneven pace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  