-- 
Philippine Peso Declines on Likely Forward Curbs; Bonds Weaken

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-09-15T09:00:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/philippine-peso-falls-on-speculation-forwards-curbs-are-likely.html
The Philippine peso dropped for a
sixth day, its longest run of losses in three months, on
speculation the central bank will impose restrictions on non-
deliverable forward-currency transactions. Ten-year bonds fell.  Policy makers may raise the risk charge imposed on trading
the forwards to ensure they are used only for hedging, Governor
Amando Tetangco said this week. Slowing economies in the U.S.
and Europe pose risks to overseas remittances, exports and
investment, Tetangco said. Transfers from abroad rose 6.1
percent in July from a year earlier, the slowest pace in four
months, the central bank reported today.  “The peso is weak on risk aversion still arising from
problems in the euro region, coupled with policy pronouncements
from the regulator that it won’t tolerate speculation,” said
Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte in Singapore.  The peso dropped 0.2 percent to 43.325 per dollar as of
the 4 p.m. close of trading in Manila, according to Tullett
Prebon Plc. It touched 43.362 earlier, the weakest level since
June 30.  Capital inflows are a “key headwind,” Tetangco said in a
Sept. 13 speech to traders and fund managers. It’s now time to
“consider if the NDF has ceased to meet the need it was
intended for,” he said.  The yield on the government’s 6.5 percent bonds due April
2021 rose eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 5.78
percent, the highest level in almost three weeks, according to
Tradition Financial Services.  The budget deficit likely widened in August on government
spending, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said today in Manila,
without elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 