-- 
News Corp. Phone Hacking Sees U.K. Lawmakers Regain Trust as Media Loses

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-09-15T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/phone-hacking-sees-u-k-lawmakers-regain-trust-as-media-loses-it.html
The  News Corp. (NWSA)  phone-hacking
scandal has reversed a six-year trend of falling public trust in
U.K. politicians, while undoing years of improving perceptions
of journalists, according to a poll published today.  A survey for  Nottingham University’s School of Politics 
found just one person in 20 saying they trusted tabloid
journalists to tell the truth, and a rise in those saying they
trusted lawmakers, the first since 2006. It was conducted
immediately after Parliament’s Culture Committee called News
Corp. Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch and his son James
in July to explain hacking at the News of the World tabloid.  The July 4 revelation that the newspaper hacked a murdered
girl’s voicemail forced its closure and led to high-level
resignations from the company and the abandonment of its bid for
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. By contrast, it offered
lawmakers the chance to fight back against the press after years
of defending themselves over scandals including their expenses.  “Trust in journalists -- both broadsheet and tabloid -- is
down by around a quarter,” Nottingham academics Jonathan Rose
and Cees van der Eijk wrote in an analysis of the figures. “If
trust in newspaper journalists and the police has fallen, there
has been a remarkable resurgence in trust for politicians.
Whatever the partisan effect of the scandal, the political class
as a whole appears to have benefited from it.”  Decline in Trust  That’s a turnaround from  polling data published yesterday 
by the Committee on Standards in Public Life covering the years
2004 to 2010 that showed decreases in those saying they trusted
elected lawmakers. That report also showed increases in the
number of people saying they trusted both tabloid and broadsheet
journalists to tell the truth.  “It may be that the rise in confidence in journalists is
linked to their perceived role in exposing the expenses
scandal,” the committee wrote. The body acts as an adviser to
the government. Its figures aren’t directly comparable with the
Nottingham study.  According to  Rupert Murdoch , this lost of trust wasn’t what
he hoped to achieve with his newspapers. When he appeared before
the committee on July 19, describing it as “the most humble day
of my life,” he talked about his pride in his father, the
journalist Keith Murdoch, who exposed army incompetence during
World War I. “He, just before he died, bought a small paper,
specifically in his will saying that he was giving me the chance
to do good,” Murdoch said.  YouGov Plc interviewed 2,551 adults online Nov. 15-20,
2010, for the standards committee and 2,012 adults July 15-16
for Nottingham University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 