-- 
Piedmont Says It Hasn’t Ruled Out Raising Mitchells Offer

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-09-15T09:24:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/piedmont-says-it-hasn-t-ruled-out-raising-mitchells-offer-1-.html
Piedmont Inc., the investment
vehicle controlled by Bahamas-based billionaire  Joe Lewis , said
it hasn’t ruled out raising its offer for  Mitchells & Butlers
Plc (MAB) , the U.K. owner of the All Bar One pub chain.  Shares in Birmingham,  England  based Mitchells & Butlers rose
9 pence, or 3.5 percent, to 269 pence at 10:20 a.m. in  London ,
valuing the company at 1.1 billion pounds ($1.73 billion).
Piedmont, which already owns 22.8 percent of Mitchells &
Butlers, said three days ago it was considering an offer for the
rest of the pub chain at 230 pence per share. Mitchells rejected
the offer, saying it “significantly” undervalued the company.  “Piedmont reserves the right to increase its offer price
above 230 pence per Mitchells & Butlers share, were an offer to
be made,” said Piedmont in a statement today. “Piedmont wishes
to clarify that it has not stated that it will not increase its
offer price over 230 pence per Mitchells & Butlers share.”  Analysts including Nigel Parson at Evolution Securities and
Greg Feehely at Altium Capital said any offer for Mitchells &
Butlers would have to be pitched at least as high as 300 pence.  “Its a derisory offer,” Parson, who has a ‘buy’ rating on
the stock, said in a phone interview. “Piedmont would have to
pay in excess of 300 pence per share to value the business
properly.”  Magnier, McManus  Elpida Group, an investment vehicle owned by Irish
horseracing tycoons John Magnier and J.P. McManus that owns a
20.1 percent stake in Mitchells, has yet to make a public
statement on Piedmont’s possible offer. A spokesman for Elpida,
who declined to be named, said he wouldn’t comment when
contacted by Bloomberg News.  The company has lost four chairmen in the past 18 months.
Piedmont has “exploited this instability,” David Cumming, head
of U.K. equities at Standard Life said Sept. 13. Bob Ivell
became interim chairman in July, replacing Simon Burke, who
decided to step down. Burke was chairman from February and
replaced John Lovering. Jeremy Blood became interim chief
executive in March, replacing Adam Fowle.  Piedmont’s possible offer is “insulting,” Cumming said.
“The business is worth substantially more than the terms
proposed.” Standard Life holds 0.34 percent in Mitchells &
Butlers.  Mitchell’s, which operates 1,600 sites in the U.K.
including Harverster, All Bar One and O’Neill’s, is the
“highest quality managed pub business in the U.K.,” Feehely,
who has a ‘buy’ rating on the stock, said in a note to clients
on Sept. 13. “We retain our view the shares are worth at least
300 pence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this stor
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  