-- 
Pinnacle’s Colgan Air Faces $1.89 Million Penalty From FAA

-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 
2011-09-15T21:03:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/pinnacle-s-colgan-air-faces-1-89-million-penalty-from-faa-2-.html
The U.S.  Federal Aviation
Administration  is seeking to fine  Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCL) ’s
Colgan Air $1.89 million for allegedly allowing flight
attendants to work before they were trained to use the planes’
fire extinguishers.  Colgan assigned 84 newly hired flight attendants to 172
flights after an inspector notified the carrier that they had
not completed required training, the Washington-based agency
said in a statement today.  “FAA rules on flight crew training are designed to help
ensure the safety of passengers,” Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in a news release. “We require carriers to comply
with all of our safety rules, and we will not hesitate to take
enforcement action when they do not.”  The violations occurred Nov. 3 to Nov. 9, 2009, the FAA
said. Nine months earlier, a Bombardier Q400 twin turboprop
plane flown by Colgan crashed near Buffalo,  New York , killing 50
people. While the captain’s maneuvers were the main cause of the
accident, the carrier’s “inadequate” procedures and management
contributed, a National Transportation Safety Board
investigation found.  In November, the attendants were assigned to work on the
Q400. They had been trained to operate extinguishers on the Saab
340, another turboprop model.  Extinguishers ‘Operate Differently’  The extinguishers on the Bombardier aircraft “operate
differently” than those on the Saab, the FAA said. The agency
determined on Nov. 2, 2009, that the attendants lacked training.  The fire extinguishers in the two aircraft were the same,
except one model had a hose and the other didn’t, Colgan said in
a statement. The airline has also updated its training manuals.  “Safety is a top priority at Colgan,” the carrier said in
the statement. “We intend to cooperate with the FAA and will
respond to the allegations per their process.”  The carrier has 30 days to respond to the FAA’s
allegations. Airlines can challenge the charges or try to
negotiate a lower penalty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  