-- 
Poker Players Made Refugees Discover Costa Rica Welcome Place to Reconnect

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   W i n t e r
-- 
2011-09-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/poker-players-made-refugees-discover-costa-rica-welcome-place-to-reconnect.html
New Jerseyans Matthew Stout and
Joey Cappuccio have been living in San Jose,  Costa Rica , for
three weeks, and they only have left their apartment to get
groceries. They’ve been playing poker. It’s what they do for a
living, and it’s why they’ve left the U.S.  Like thousands of other professional players, Stout and
Cappuccio have been denied their source of income since their
Black Friday -- April 15, 2011 -- the day when the  Justice
Department  blocked access to the three top online poker sites in
the U.S. Relocated and logged in, they’re making up for lost
time, according to the Sept. 19 edition of Bloomberg
Businessweek.  “It took me a while to admit to myself that things aren’t
going to get resolved anytime soon and that we were eventually
gonna have to do something about it,” says Stout, who’s perched
on a plaid chair in his new home, laptop in hand, registering
for the day’s games.  He barely finishes his sentence before Cappuccio blurts out:
“By ‘eventually,’ we meant ‘now.’ "  In mid-August, after playing live in the  World Series  of
Poker, the friends, both 26, made a spur-of-the-moment decision
to head south, expediting a passport for Cappuccio, who’d never
traveled outside the U.S.  To facilitate the move, they signed on to become the first
clients of  Poker Refugees , a San Jose-based startup specializing
in setting up professional American players in  Canada ,  Panama ,
and Costa Rica.  The service, run by Kristin Wilson, a 29-year-old MBA and
former pro surfer from  Florida , helps players find apartments,
set up bank accounts, and, crucially, a reliable Internet
connection abroad. The fee is $1,000 a head, which seemed fair
to Stout and Cappuccio, who say they have made about $1 million
and $500,000, respectively, from poker since 2006.  World Championship  “Without Wilson, we wouldn’t have been online in time for
the (PokerStars) World Championship,” Stout says. “I would
have just been here banging my head against a wall.”  Since Aug. 16, Poker Refugees has relocated 14 Americans
and received queries from almost 100 more players; a rival
business, Tico Tours, also began in Costa Rica. No one knows for
sure the size of the potential market, but according to the
online poker community and information site PocketFives, players
who rely on poker for a salary number in the tens of thousands.
(PocketFives hosts Wilson’s website.)  “If you’re an actual professional player, you’re going to
move,” says Matt Plecki, a 21-year-old chemical engineering
major who took a leave of absence from the  University of
Southern California  to pursue poker. He also hired Wilson to
help him set up in Costa Rica. Since playing live games in legal,
stateside casinos doesn’t generally allow players to earn enough
income, the alternative is finding a regular job.  No Office Job  “No one wants to go in at 9 o’clock wearing a suit and
making like a quarter of what they made playing poker while
working five times as many hours,” says Plecki. “It’s just not
happening.”  Over the past decade, poker exploded as an online
phenomenon. Around-the-clock access meant more players and the
opportunity to play more hands in less time. The game became
less psychological and more quantitative, with online players
using computer software to track their opponents’ actions and
tendencies.  Online poker also provided an opening for a new crop of
talent composed largely of college kids, and the possibility for
those with skill -- especially those playing cash games instead
of tournaments -- to earn steady money by taking on more hands
and exploiting hoards of amateur competitors they call “fish.”  Overseas Poker  Even with a boom in players, online poker in the U.S. was
in a legal gray area, and most of the major U.S.-targeted poker
rooms are based overseas. The three biggest before April  15 --
PokerStars, Full Tilt Poker, and  Absolute Poker /UltimateBet --
are based in the  Isle of Man , Ireland and Costa Rica,
respectively.  In 2006, Congress enacted the Unlawful Internet Gambling
Enforcement Act, making it a federal crime for businesses to
knowingly accept payments in connection with online bets or
wagers, but authorities didn’t act on the legal changes in a big
way until this year.  On Black Friday, the Justice Department, led by  Preet Bharara , U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York,
indicted 11 men in connection with the three sites, charging
them with bank fraud,  money laundering  and illegal gambling.  The charges came as a surprise to some poker players.  “It had gotten to a point where it seemed like online
poker was illegal but tolerated,” says Stout.  Along with the site seizures and indictments, authorities
also froze millions of dollars in player accounts. Star player
Daniel “Jungleman” Cates may have $6 million frozen in a Full
Tilt account, according to several poker sites. PokerStars is
the only one of the three sites to cash out U.S. players to date.  None of the companies responded to questions from Bloomberg
Businessweek.  Smaller Sites  Today, Americans can still access smaller sites such as
Curaçao-based Cake Poker and Netherlands-based Lock Poker, which
saw its numbers increase fivefold following April 15, according
to Stout, who’s a salaried pro for Lock. Plecki and others,
however, say that investing large sums is risky: No one knows
where the U.S. authorities may strike next.  Many players, including Stout and Plecki, suspect that
Black Friday is part of a government plan to legalize and tax
online poker in the U.S.  American casinos stand to profit. A bill introduced by
Representative  Joe Barton , a Republican from  Texas , on June 24,
would legalize online poker for eligible companies that already
have a gambling license in at least one state.  “The Barton bill ensures that sites like Harrahs.com or
MGM.com will be best positioned to attract American players at
the outset,” says Olivier Busquet, an occasional poker
commentator for ESPN. “This is a huge advantage, since having a
large player base is invaluable.”  $1 Million Pot  In  San Jose , Stout and Cappuccio recently bought into a
$1,000 tournament with a pot of around $1 million. The contest
starts at 3 p.m. and will run until midnight. They’re wandering
around their apartment carrying open laptops, staring at their
screens and evaluating the competition while fixing a pizza
lunch. Stout is boisterous. He’s been on a winning streak and
has big plans.  Cappuccio’s on edge. He’s lost most of his $500,000 in
earnings by staking friends who failed to make back his money,
and he’s nervous about having to leave poker and go back to a
job at his father’s ketchup factory.  “I’m broke,” he says, sheepishly. “I need to win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Winter in  New York  at 
 cwinter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bradford Wieners at 
 bwieners@bloomberg.net  