-- 
Portugal to Give Central Bank More Means to Protect Deposits

-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-09-15T13:56:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/portugal-to-give-central-bank-more-means-for-intervention.html
The  Portuguese government  approved
a proposal to give the central bank more means to intervene in
the financial system it supervises to protect clients’ deposits.  The proposal calls for the creation of a “resolution
fund” that may include contributions from banks and the
government, Luis Marques Guedes, the secretary of state for the
presidency of the council of ministers, told journalists in
Lisbon today following the weekly Cabinet meeting.  “The proposal aims to promote stability in the financial
sector and protect client deposits more,” according to a
statement handed to reporters. “With this initiative, the
Portuguese state meets the commitment of reinforcing the regimes
of intervention in situations of credit institutions’ financial
imbalance and of deposit guarantees included in  Portugal ’s
financial-assistance program.”  As Portugal’s borrowing costs surged, the country in April
followed Greece and Ireland in seeking a bailout from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . The Bank of
Portugal said on June 7 that Portuguese lenders should sell
loans and non-strategic assets and add deposits as part of a
“gradual” de-leveraging process.  Portuguese banks’ deposits from individuals rose to 124.5
billion euros ($172 billion) in June, a 1.9 percent gain from
the prior month and the ninth consecutive increase, the central
bank said on Aug. 22.  The bank said on May 12 that domestic lenders must have a
core Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 9 percent by the end of
this year, as set in the bailout package. That ratio must be at
least 10 percent by the end of 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  