-- 
Russian Billionaire Prokhorov Quits Party After ‘Takeover’ by Kremlin

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-09-15T13:06:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/prokhorov-proposes-new-party-after-fake-congress-ifx-reports.html
Mikhail Prokhorov , the Russian
billionaire who owns the  New Jersey Nets , may form a new
political movement after what he called a “hostile takeover”
of his Pravoye Delo party by the Kremlin.  “To all followers who supported me, I call on you to quit
this party bought by the Kremlin,” Prokhorov, Russia’s third-
richest man, told a meeting of his Pravoye Delo followers in
Moscow today.  The pro-business Pravoye Delo, or Right Cause, discredited
itself after “fake” candidates took power, hijacking a
congress yesterday, Prokhorov said. He warned on Sept. 13 that
the party was fighting presidential administration attempts to
destroy its independence and install a new leader.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  centralized power and
sidelined opposition after becoming president in 2000, with pro-
government parties controlling 87 percent of seats in parliament
and the Communist Party holding the rest. Prokhorov, 46, whose
fortune Forbes estimates at about $18 billion, has grown
increasingly critical of government policies since being elected
head of Pravoye Delo in June.  Prokhorov said today he’s not afraid of suffering the same
fate as imprisoned former Yukos Oil Co. owner  Mikhail Khodorkovsky . Once  Russia ’s richest man, Khodorkovsky was
convicted of fraud and  tax evasion  in 2005 and oil embezzlement
in December 2010, charges he says were linked to his financing
of opposition parties.  Business Activities  While the billionaire has steered clear of criticizing
Putin or his successor as president, Dmitry Medvedev, his open
attack on the political system may affect his business
activities,  Masha Lipman , an analyst at the Carnegie Moscow
Center research group, said today in a phone interview.  “I don’t think he risks ending up in jail, but he’s still
got business in Russia and he may find some obstacles,” Lipman
said. “Something that was smooth before could become
difficult.”  Prokhorov is one of the owners of Polyus Gold International
Ltd., Russia’s top producer of the precious metal, and the
second-largest investor in United Rusal Co., the world’s biggest
aluminum producer. The billionaire said in December that he
planned to merge Polyus with a global rival as early as in 2011
to join the world’s top three miners of the commodity.  Surkov Resignation  Prokhorov said he discussed the development of Pravoye Delo
with  Vladislav Surkov , the first deputy chief of staff of
President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s administration, earlier this week.
Showing that the party is not a “puppet” project and has its
own voice must have annoyed the Kremlin administration, he said.  Prokhorov reaped a round of applause when he said his main
political task was to do everything possible to have Surkov
resign.  “There is a puppeteer in the country who long ago
privatized the political system and who has long misinformed the
country’s leadership,” Prokhorov said referring to Surkov. “As
long as such people regulate the political process, no real
politics are possible in the country.”  The Kremlin press service declined to comment when
contacted today by phone.  ‘Tight Leash’  After securing Kremlin backing for his political project,
Prokhorov ran up against efforts to keep him on a tight leash,
according to Lipman.  “He complied, he never criticized Putin or Medvedev, he
said he wasn’t an opposition force, but apparently as the game
went on, he acted more independently and he defied some of their
recommendations and gradually antagonized those who thought they
were his minders, that is how the scandal ensued.”  Prokhorov met Medvedev shortly after being elected chairman
of Pravoye Delo. Medvedev said he supports Prokhorov’s idea of
decentralizing Russian power, adding that some his proposals
were “revolutionary” and need to be thought over.  Prokhorov, who had said he was seeking to become prime
minister and may also run for president next March, committed to
spend 2.7 billion rubles ($89 million) of his personal wealth on
campaigning for December legislative elections. Right Cause was
seeking to win more than the 7 percent of votes needed to gain
seats in the lower house of parliament, or State Duma.  ‘Soviet Parody’  The billionaire said Aug. 26 that Russia is becoming a
“farce and parody of the  Soviet Union ,” stifled by bureaucracy
and authoritarian rule.  Putin, 58, a former officer in the Soviet-era KGB, hasn’t
ruled out returning to the presidency next year, which could
give him a quarter of a century in power under new six-year
mandates. Putin handed the president’s job to his protégé,
Medvedev, 46, in 2008, after serving the maximum two consecutive
terms allowed by the constitution.  “I call on people who are not indifferent to this country,
who want to live here, who want it to develop,” Prokhorov said.
“I propose to create a new political movement and win in honest
and fair elections.” He said he would seek a meeting with
Medvedev and Putin to discuss this.  The authorities won’t allow Prokhorov to register a new
party, said  Dmitry Oreshkin , an independent political analyst.  “This affair is just another confirmation that Russia has
an imitation of democracy in which the parliament is not a means
to balance various political interests but an instrument for the
ruling elite,” Moscow-based Oreshkin said today by phone.  Mikhail Kasyanov , a prime minister under Putin who is now
an opposition figure, said he felt “genuinely sorry” for
Prokhorov.  “He agreed to be a puppet and at last realized that he
can’t go through with it and is now getting out of a very
unpleasant situation,” Kasyanov said today by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 