-- 
Fosun to Expand Into ‘Sexier’ Finance, Consumer Businesses

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-15T09:18:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/prudential-financial-fosun-to-set-up-life-insurance-venture-in-shanghai.html
Fosun International Ltd. (656) , which
today announced an insurance venture with  Prudential Financial
Inc. (PRU) , plans more acquisitions in the U.S., Europe and  Japan  to
accelerate growth.  Fosun is setting up a 500 million yuan ($78 million) joint
venture with Prudential Financial, the second-biggest U.S. life
insurer, to provide life insurance products to Chinese consumers.
The Shanghai-based company is shifting its focus to faster
growing financial and consumer businesses from heavy industries
such as steel, said billionaire  Guo Guangchang , the company’s
co-founder and chairman.  “Other industries are sexier than steel,” Guo said in an
interview in Shanghai today. “We are looking at a lot of
projects. China’s domestic consumption will definitely see major
growth. Our investments aim to accelerate the growth in  China  of
our foreign partners.”  Fosun, with businesses ranging from health care to mining,
has made several acquisitions that will help the company benefit
from the rising demand in consumer and financial services such
as insurance, said Guo, adding that he learns from  Warren
Buffett ’s investment decisions.  Prudential Financial and Fosun are tapping into a market
that has expanded an average 30 percent a year in the past three
decades because insurance penetration is still far below the
global average level, the companies said today. China’s
insurance market is expected an annual growth of 10-15 percent
in the next five years, said Guo, who’s ranked 27th in  Forbes’s 
China rich list this year with a fortune of $2.7 billion.  The 50-50 partnership, to be based in  Shanghai , is expected
to start operations in the fourth quarter of next year,
according to a joint statement today.  Growth Potential  “China remains the market with the best growth potential
globally and in the Asia-Pacific region for foreign insurers,”
said Olive Xia, a Shanghai-based analyst at Core Pacific-
Yamaichi International Ltd. “Fosun should be a good choice
because you need a fairly big and capital-rich local partner
given the investments needed for the first three to five years
of a life insurance business.”  Retail and financial services operations accounted for 53
percent of Fosun’s profit in the first six months of this year,
according to the company’s interim report. Steel and mining
businesses made up 27 percent of the total with health care and
property contributing 12 percent and 11 percent, respectively.  Guo said Fosun is targeting foreign companies that have
fast growth in China with its investments this year in French
resort operator Club Mediterranee SA and Greek luxury retailer
Folli-Follie Group.  Luxury Brands  Fosun, seeking to invest in luxury clothing and cosmetic
brands in  Europe , agreed in May to pay 84.6 million euros ($117
million) to buy a 9.5 percent stake in Athens-based Folli-Follie
whose activities include the manufacturing and sale of jewelry
and handbags. It has a 9.5 percent stake in French resort
operator Club Med.  Luxury-goods sales in China are set to rise 18 percent a
year to 180 billion yuan between 2010 and 2015, according to
estimates by consultant McKinsey & Co.  “If you don’t move forward, you will fall behind,” Guo
said. “As an  investment company , if you don’t integrate global
resources, you will lose your competitiveness.”  --Helen Yuan, Zhang Dingmin and Stephanie Wong, with assistance from Michael
Wei. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Tomoko Yamazaki  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3028 or
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Dingmin Zhang in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7576 or
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  