-- 
Qatar Shares Rise a Third Day This Week on Euro Zone Optimism

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-15T11:14:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/qatar-shares-rise-a-third-day-this-week-on-euro-zone-optimism.html
Qatar ’s shares rose for a third day
this week, led by  Industries Qatar QSC (IQCD) , as French and German
officials said  Greece  will stay in the euro zone, allaying
investor fears the country will default on its debt.  Industries Qatar, the Middle East’s second-biggest
petrochemicals company, gained the most since June.  Masraf Al
Rayan (MARK) , Qatar’s second-largest Shariah-compliant lender, advanced
1 percent. The  QE Index (DSM)  rose 0.3 percent to 8,347.74, the
highest level since Sept. 11, at the 1 p.m. close in Doha. The
gauge has slipped 0.2 percent this week. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index added 1 percent today.  “The mood is generally a bit more positive following the
statements from European officials committing to saving Greece
and the euro,” said Ahmed Talhaoui, the Abu Dhabi-based head of
investment at Royal Capital. “Volumes in the region are still
anemic.”  European and Asian shares climbed after French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said late
yesterday they are “convinced” Greece will stay in the euro
area. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  committed to meet
deficit-reduction targets demanded as a condition for an
international bailout, according to statements from governments
in Athens, Berlin and Paris. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rallied
1.6 percent at 2:37 p.m. in Dubai and the  MSCI AC Asia Pacific (MXAP) 
Index rose 1.4 percent.  Eshraq IPO  About 5.5 million shares traded in Qatar today, compared
with a 12-month daily average of 9 million, according to data on
Bloomberg.  Industries Qatar rallied 2.6 percent, the most since June
9, to 122.6 riyals. Masraf al Rayan advanced to 24.25 riyals,
the highest since July 11.  Eshraq Properties, an Abu Dhabi-based real-estate
developer, closed at 51 fils, more than double its installment
price, on its first trading day. The company offered 825 million
shares in an initial public offering at 1 dirham each. Investors
have paid 25 fils and will pay the remainder within two years.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  was little changed. Bahrain’s BB
All Share Index decreased 0.4 percent. Kuwait’s measure and  Abu
Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  retreated 0.1 percent while Oman’s
gauge gained 0.4 percent. Saudi Arabia’s market is closed for
the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  