-- 
Ralcorp Board Costing Investors $1 Billion in ConAgra Opposition: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-09-15T00:28:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/ralcorp-board-costing-investors-1-billion-in-conagra-opposition-real-m-a.html
Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH) ’s board risks
costing shareholders a billion dollars if it walks away from
 ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) ’s third takeover offer in favor of splitting
up the company.  Ralcorp plunged to $79.11 yesterday after ConAgra said it
will withdraw the $94-a-share proposal if the cereal maker won’t
start negotiations by Sept. 19. The premium of 19 percent is now
higher than every pending all-cash U.S. deal of more than $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While
Ralcorp’s Post Foods and private-label goods may only be worth a
combined $86 a share in an upcoming separation, ConAgra may be
willing to pay $104 to secure a deal, said BMO Capital Markets.  The  maker  of Chef Boyardee pasta and Orville Redenbacher’s
popcorn is pushing for talks after St. Louis-based Ralcorp
rejected its advances, adopted a poison pill and said splitting
in two will “unlock significant value” for shareholders.
ConAgra, which began its pursuit at $82 a share in March, is now
valuing the biggest U.S. maker of store-brand foods at $7.3
billion including net debt. Ralcorp still fell 7.1 percent
yesterday as traders who profit from mergers and acquisitions
abandoned bets after pushing the stock as high as $90.51 in May.  “It’s put up or shut up time for Ralcorp,”  Jack Russo , an
analyst for Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said in a telephone
interview. “Clearly the board of directors at Ralcorp is under
the gun. They may have to be more specific on how they’re going
to take care of their own shareholders if they don’t accept an
offer.”  Calls from Shareholders  Some Ralcorp investors spoke with two board members, David W. Kemper and Jonathan E. Baum, pressing them to hold talks with
ConAgra and see how high the company was willing to bid, said
people familiar with the matter, who declined to be named
because the discussions were private.  James Golden, an outside spokesman for Ralcorp, declined to
comment regarding the board members’ discussions with investors
and the potential valuation in a takeover versus a spinoff. A
telephone message left at Ralcorp Chairman William Stiritz’s
office wasn’t returned. Teresa Paulsen, a spokeswoman for Omaha,
Nebraska-based ConAgra, declined to comment beyond the company’s
Sept. 13 statement.  “ConAgra Foods has heard from many of Ralcorp’s
shareholders who are urging Ralcorp to enter into negotiations,”
the company said in the statement. “Ralcorp has been unwilling
to engage in discussions of any nature with ConAgra.”  ‘Deal Isn’t Dead’  ConAgra’s current offer is a starting point for
negotiations, which may result in an offer of as much as $104 a
share, estimates Amit Sharma, a New York-based analyst at BMO
Capital. His projected acquisition price range of $94 to $104 a
share is based on past deals in the food and beverage industry
and a sum-of-the-parts analysis for Ralcorp.  According to Sharma’s analysis, Post Foods may be worth $14
a share and the private-label food business may be valued at $72
a share, based on peer companies’ projected 2012 multiples
relative to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization.  “The deal isn’t dead,” Sharma said in a phone interview.
“If the company is worth $86 on a sum-of-the-parts analysis, in
the next 12 months taking the deal is a better option.”  A bid of $104 a share would hand shareholders $992 million,
or 21 percent, more than the value that would be created in the
company’s proposed split, based on Sharma’s estimates and data
compiled by Bloomberg. The $94-a-share offer is already 9.3
percent higher than the estimated value in a breakup.  Fruity Pebbles  “ConAgra is offering a pretty fair price,” said Russo of
 Edward Jones . “It’s hard to do any better than an all-cash
offer. If Ralcorp is going to break up the company, then you’ve
got a long process with that and questions over what Post is
going to be valued at.”  Ralcorp plans to separate its private-label foods division
from the  Post cereal brands , including Honey Bunches of Oats and
Fruity Pebbles, in a tax-free spinoff that doesn’t require
shareholder approval. The transaction will “unlock significant
value” for investors, Ralcorp Chairman Stiritz said in a July
14 statement. The company estimated the spinoff would be
completed within four to six months.  Stiritz, 77, will become the chairman of Post Foods, and
Vice Chairman J. Patrick Mulcahy will be the chairman of the
surviving Ralcorp company, which will consist of the private
labels. Co-Chief Executive Officer Dave Skarie will retire Dec.
31, and his counterpart Kevin Hunt will be CEO of Ralcorp after
the separation.  Sum of Parts  Post Foods may be worth almost $18 a share after a spinoff,
while the remaining Ralcorp business may be valued at about $64,
based on publicly traded peers, Andrew Lazar, an analyst at
Barclays Plc in  New York , wrote in a report yesterday. While
Lazar’s sum-of-the-parts projects the businesses should be
valued at about $82 a share combined, BB&T Capital Markets’
Heather Jones estimates a valuation of $90 a share.  Ralcorp spurned the $94-a-share offer from ConAgra on Aug.
12 after turning down earlier offers of $86 and $82 a share.
ConAgra said in the Sept. 13 statement that it would withdraw
the bid, which values Ralcorp at $5.2 billion plus $2.1 billion
in net debt, if it doesn’t enter negotiations by 5 p.m. New York
time on Sept. 19.  The all-cash offer “provides present value in excess of
what Ralcorp can achieve on its own, including through its
announced spin-off plans,” ConAgra said in the statement.  “If you look at the press release ConAgra put out, it said
Ralcorp has one week to start negotiations -- not to accept,”
said BMO Capital’s Sharma. “$94 is a pretty good price to get
them to start talking.”  Higher Bid Unlikely  ConAgra said it’s only interested in acquiring the entire
company and will pursue other opportunities if Ralcorp refuses
to negotiate.  Given the deadline announcement, ConAgra is not very likely
to “materially” raise its bid, David Driscoll, an analyst with
Citigroup Inc. in New York, wrote in a Sept. 13 research report.  ConAgra “believes it is offering full value to RAH
shareholders above what the company is worth in its current
structure or after a spin-off,” Driscoll wrote.  If ConAgra wants to keep its investment-grade  credit
rating , it’s probably capped at offering $100 a share unless it
chooses to issue stock as part of the terms,  Alexia Howard , an
analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, wrote in a
Sept. 12 note to clients before ConAgra set the deadline. The
food company is rated Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB
by  Standard & Poor’s .  Biggest Premium  Ralcorp has fallen 13 percent since reaching a record high
of $90.51 on May 18. The shares dropped $6.03 to $79.11
yesterday. ConAgra’s bid now offers a 19 percent gain for
shareholders if the deal closes at $94, the biggest current
premium of any pending all-cash takeover in the U.S. greater
than $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’d like to see it get done,” Michael Vogelzang, who
oversees $1.9 billion including ConAgra and Ralcorp shares as
chief investment officer of Boston Advisors LLC, said in a
telephone interview. “Ralcorp can’t be happy with the stock
down as much as it is. It will be interesting to see what it’s
going to take Ralcorp to make the decision to effectively sell
their business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 