-- 
Rand, Bonds Extend Advance as ECB Acts to Ease European Liquidity Concern

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-09-15T14:30:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/rand-south-africa-bonds-extend-gain-as-ecb-acts-to-ease-liquidity-concern.html
South Africa ’s rand extended gains
and bond yields fell after the European Central Bank said it
will lend dollars to European lenders to ensure they have enough
of the U.S. currency through the end of the year.  The rand advanced as much as 1.3 percent to 7.3146 per
dollar, and traded 0.7 percent stronger at 7.3608 per dollar as
of 4:14 p.m. in Johannesburg. The 13.5 percent bonds due 2015
climbed 68 cents to 123.12 rand, driving the yield up 18 basis
points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 6.785 percent.  The ECB said it will conduct liquidity operations in
concert with the  Federal Reserve , the Bank of  England , the  Bank
of Japan  and the Swiss National Bank. Investor concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis will cause a funding shortfall for euro-
region banks had sapped demand for riskier assets.  “This is definitely a short-term positive for the rand and
bonds,” Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana a currency strategist at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said by phone. “The fact that
they have to provide dollar funding is an indication of bank
stress,” which helped drive the rand to a one-month low on
Sept. 13 as investors shunned riskier assets.  The euro strengthened against the dollar after the
announcement in Frankfurt. Two banks this week borrowed the U.S.
currency from the ECB in its regular seven-day operation, a sign
they are finding it difficult to gain access to the U.S.
currency in markets.  Earlier, bonds gained and the rand advanced versus the
dollar after German and French leaders said they’re certain
 Greece  will remain in the  euro zone .  Aversion Subsides  “The news would have gone some way to restoring
confidence,” Tradition Analytics strategists led by
Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research note.
“Levels of risk aversion have subsided” though “the euro zone
is not out of the woods yet”, they added.  South African bonds gained, paring the biggest five-day
drop since October 2008 as investors sold high-yielding assets
on concern Europe’s debt crisis will raise borrowing costs for
the region’s banks.  Global investors sold a net 10.8 billion rand ($1.5
billion) of South African stocks and bonds in the first three
days of this week, according to JSE Ltd. data. The  European
Central Bank  said on Sept. 14 it will lend dollars to two euro-
area banks, a sign they are finding it difficult to borrow in
the U.S. currency markets, while Credit Agricole SA and Societe
Generale SA had their long-term credit ratings cut one level by
Moody’s Investors Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  