-- 
Rand Plunge Spurs Biggest Bonds Exit Since 2008 as Rate Cut Seen Abandoned

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-09-16T07:41:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/rand-plunge-spurs-biggest-bonds-exit-since-2008-as-rate-cut-seen-abandoned.html
Foreign investors are selling South
African bonds at the fastest pace since 2008 as the rand extends
the worst drop against the dollar of any major currency.  International funds sold 10 billion rand ($1.4 billion) of
South African bonds on Sept. 13 and 14, more than the net amount
for any two-day period since October 2008, the month after
Lehman Brothers Holding Inc.’s collapse, according to JSE Ltd.,
which manages the nation’s bond and equity exchanges. The rand
is down 11 percent this year, the most among the 16 major
currencies, on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will cause funding
shortages for banks and curtail demand for riskier assets.  The bond market exodus threatens to widen the current-
account deficit and put further pressure on the rand, said Andre Roux at Investec Asset Management in  Cape Town . Until this week,
foreign investors had bought a net 52.6 billion rand of the
nation’s bonds, helping limit the current-account gap that grew
to 3.3 percent of gross domestic product in the second quarter.  “We have a current-account deficit that has been financed
mostly by bond inflows,” said Roux, the head of fixed-interest
investments at Investec, South  Africa ’s biggest independent fund
manager with the equivalent of $94 billion. “If this sell-off
continues, we will have a currency adjustment.”  European funding concerns triggered downgrades this week
for Credit Agricole SA and Societe Generale SA from Moody’s
Investors Service, which also put ratings on review for BNP
Paribas SA, the largest French lender, citing risks caused by
investments in  Greece .  ‘Becoming Extreme’  The concern over European banks is prompting investors to
pull money from emerging-market currencies, Roux said.  “In the past few days it appears that euro-zone financial
stress is becoming extreme,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan- Bhana, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, wrote in a Sept. 14 research note. The rand’s
decline “could relate to the unwinding of leveraged plays as
the euro-zone banking crisis intensifies,” they said.  The rand’s retreat is stoking the highest inflation in 15
months and spurring traders to pare their expectations for an
interest-rate cut at the next three central bank meetings.
Consumer prices rose 5.3 percent in July from 5 percent in June.  Forward-rate agreements for March 2012 climbed 22 basis
points, or 0.22 percentage point, this week to 5.35 percent.
 South Africa ’s benchmark rate is 5.5 percent.  Bearish Bets  Traders are increasing bearish bets on the rand, driving
the premium on options to sell the currency against the dollar
rather than buy it to 5.25 percentage points yesterday, the
highest in 14 months, based on the three-month 25-delta risk-
reversal rate. The rand fell 2.3 percent in the past five days.  South African bonds had their biggest five-day slump since
February 2009 this week as the weaker rand added inflation
pressure. South Africa’s 13.5 percent rand-denominated bonds due
in 2015 climbed for the first time in five days yesterday,
paring a drop that pushed the yield up 63 basis points to 6.96
percent, the highest since Aug. 15, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Yields on South African bonds reached the highest level in
at least five years relative to  U.S. debt , with investors
demanding 610 basis points in extra yield on Sept. 14, up from
550 on Sept. 8, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The gap
narrowed to 587 yesterday after the  European Central Bank  said
it would provide dollar funding to lenders.  Foreign investors probably will return to South African
bonds as the extra yield over Treasuries compensates for the
addition risk, said Jeff Gable, the head of fixed-income and
macro-economic research at  Absa Capital , a unit of Barclays Plc
in Johannesburg.  “What else are they going to buy?” Gable said in a phone
interview. “We will continue to see inflows.”  Bank Lending  The ECB said yesterday it will lend dollars to euro-area
banks in a series of three-month loans to ensure they have
enough of the U.S. currency through the end of the year. The
rand climbed 0.5 percent to 7.3974 per dollar yesterday, paring
a 9 percent depreciation this quarter. The currency traded 0.7
percent stronger at 7.4265 at 9:18 a.m. in Johannesburg.  Growth in Africa’s biggest economy fell to the slowest pace
in two years at an annualized 1.3 percent in the second quarter,
according to the government statistics agency.  South African policy makers will “act appropriately” if
the global economy slows significantly, Reserve Bank Governor
Gill Marcus said on Aug. 23.  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee meets on Sept.
22 to discuss  interest rates . The bank has left its benchmark
rate at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent since November even after
forecasting inflation will breach the upper limit of its 3
percent to 6 percent target range in the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  