-- 
Najib Repeals Malaysia’s Detention, Media Licensing Laws Before Election

-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-09-16T09:10:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/razak-vows-repeal-of-malaysian-detention-media-laws-before-vote.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak said he will abolish laws allowing the government to
detain citizens without trial and ease media rules as he moves
to repair his public image ahead of national elections.  The government will end the Internal Security Act and the
Emergency Ordinance to ensure people can’t be arrested for
political affiliations, Najib said yesterday in a speech
broadcast on national television. The government will also ease
restrictions on media licenses and public assembly, he said.  “The abolition of the ISA, and the other historic changes,
underline my commitment to making  Malaysia  a modern, progressive
democracy,” Najib said. The changes “will ensure a brighter,
more prosperous future.”  Najib, 58, is taking the measures two months after street
protests that led to the arrest of more than 1,600 people and a
13 percentage point drop in his public approval from last year.
Concern over rising living costs have also undercut his
popularity, ahead of an election that Bank of America Merrill
Lynch economist Chua Hak Bin says will likely be held in the
first half of next year.  “It’s a big step forward and will probably boost his
standing,” said the Singapore-based Chua. “Generally there is
a clamor for greater openness in terms of the media, in terms of
the checks on the government.”  Wide Powers  The Internal Security Act was introduced in 1960 in the
wake of an armed insurgency by Communist rebels, giving the
police wide-ranging powers to detain suspects indefinitely. It
will be replaced by a law that incorporates more judicial
oversight and limits police powers to detain people for
preventive reasons, Najib said.  Opposition leaders including  Anwar Ibrahim , Lim Guan Eng
and Karpal Singh have been held under the ISA and 37 people are
now detained under the the law. The same regulation remains in
neighboring  Singapore , another former British colony. The
Emergency Ordinance, introduced in Malaysia following race riots
in 1969, permits the detention of suspects for up to two years
with a minister’s consent. The government used it against six
opposition politicians in July.  Media laws will be repealed so licenses, which must now be
renewed annually, can remain valid indefinitely unless revoked,
the government said in an e-mailed statement.  “We view this as a step in the right direction by the
government to win back support from the public, signaling that
perhaps general elections may be sooner rather than later,”
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts Hoy Kit Mak, Sriyan Pietersz and
 Adrian Mowat  said in a research note after Najib’s speech.  Malaysia’s ringgit climbed 0.3 percent against the dollar
as of 4:56 p.m. local time today. The benchmark FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index is closed today for a public holiday.  Falling Support  Public support for Najib slipped to 59 percent in August
from 65 percent in May, according to a survey by the Merdeka
Center. The poll of 1,027 people was taken Aug. 11-27 and didn’t
give a margin of error.  Concern over higher inflation has also reduced the prime
minister’s support, the survey said. Consumer prices rose 3.4
percent in July from a year earlier after climbing 3.5 percent
in June.  Groups such as  Amnesty International  condemned the use of
force to detain peaceful activists who had marched on the
capital in defiance of a government ban. The rally involved a
group of more than 60 non-governmental organizations known as
Bersih 2.0, which has the support of opposition parties.  Bersih wants  electoral changes  such as campaign periods of
at least 21 days and the use of indelible ink on fingers to
prevent people from voting more than once. During the July
protests, Malaysia’s Home Ministry blacked out parts of an
article in the Economist sold on local newsstands that called
the government “overzealous” in its handling of the Bersih
rally.  ‘Positive Development’  Najib’s pledges are a “positive development that opens up
space for freedom of speech, rule of law and transparency,”
said  Ibrahim Suffian , a political analyst at Merdeka Center.
“The proof lies in the implementation of these statements and
the nature of the laws meant to replace the ISA.”  While Najib’s sweeping changes to security laws are among
the biggest since independence in 1957, he didn’t revisit
earlier promises to roll back policies favoring the ethnic-Malay
majority. The  World Bank  said in a report earlier this year the
preferences have stifled economic growth and limited  foreign
investment , with more than one million Malaysians living abroad,
led by ethnic Chinese and Indian minorities.  Economic Measures  The Malaysian measures, implemented in 1971 following race
riots, have provided ethnic Malays with cheaper housing as well
as priority for university places, government contracts and
shares of publicly traded companies.  Najib has eased some rules to encourage investment,
including doing away with a requirement that foreign companies
investing in Malaysia and locally listed businesses set aside 30
percent of their Malaysian equity for indigenous investors. Last
year, he unveiled an economic transformation program under which
the government identified $444 billion of projects from mass
rail to nuclear power that it would promote in the current
decade.  Malaysia is also building a database of skilled Malaysians
abroad and has proposed tax cuts to lure them back. While
political constraints may limit Najib’s ability to curb
affirmative-action policies, the government may use tax
incentives to try and rekindle economic growth, Chua said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  