-- 
RBS’s McCormick Expects Growth in India, China, Australia

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 
2011-09-15T05:57:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/rbs-s-mccormick-expects-growth-in-india-china-australia.html
John McCormick,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s Asia-Pacific chairman, expects growth from
the region to continue with  Japan  lagging behind  India , China
and  Australia . He commented in an interview with Bloomberg
television today at the World Economic Forum in the northeastern
Chinese city of Dalian.  On where RBS expects to see growth in  Asia :  “We see the growth in India, we see the growth in China
and interestingly we see continued growth in a very
sophisticated, demanding market in Australia where we’ve got a
very strong position.  ‘‘We see Japan continuing to be somewhat of a laggard.
‘‘Southeast Asia will continue to provide us with opportunities
from time to time as increasingly Asian champions from all over
the Asia-Pacific go on the hunt for opportunities.’’  On Growth Through Acquisitions:  ‘‘We have no intention of any in-organic growth at all.
We’re three years into a five year strategic plan. We’re
absolutely delivering on that plan.’’  On the bank’s stock price:  ‘‘The industry share prices right across the globe have
come down and the banks are under a lot of pressure.  ‘‘The work we have to do is stay very focused on our
clients and delivering day-in and day-out. That will generate
the earnings to get the dividends going on the shares again.
‘‘That will allow many more investors to come into our stock and
that’s what’s going to drive the share price up.’’  On inflation:  ‘‘Food-price inflation is a big headache in India, certain
parts of  China  and certain parts of southeast Asia. If you talk
about energy prices, many economies in Asia for example still
subsidize the end user, and that hasn’t fed through to
inflation.’’  On whether China’s exchange rate:  ‘‘They’re using Hong Kong as an incubator center with which
they’re trying all of this internationalization of the RNB.
They’re using  Singapore  also as a center. They also have swap
and liquidity arrangements with  Korea .  ‘‘Convertibility in terms of the capital account will be
something they do in their own good time. They will create swap
arrangements through the People’s Bank of China through each of
the central banks in the United Kingdom, in Singapore,  Hong Kong 
and Korea and probably other centers going forward.  ‘‘They will do it on a staggered basis. It’s the control of
that lever -- getting the liquidity money from offshore back to
onshore -- is the key as to when they open up the capital
account for the real movement of goods and services,
particularly financial products.  ‘‘Time will tell when that will occur.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
Rishaad Salamat in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  