-- 
Treasuries Tumble as ECB Coordination With Fed Damps Bid for Safest Assets

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-09-15T21:19:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/treasury-breakeven-rate-declines-to-lowest-since-2010-before-cpi-report.html
Treasury 10-year note yields rose
the most in more than three weeks as the  European Central Bank 
said it will work with the  Federal Reserve  and other central
banks to lend euro-area financial institutions dollars, damping
demand for a refuge.  Thirty-year bonds erased gains posted yesterday after the
Treasury sold $13 billion of the securities at the lowest yields
on record as investors bet the Fed will announce plans to buy
more longer-maturity debt next week. The ECB’s lending plan was
announced a day after Germany and  France  signaled their
commitment to keeping Greece in the euro region.  “Europe isn’t going to fall into the abyss,” said  Anthony Cronin , a trader in New York at Societe Generale SA, one of the
20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “That helped to
fuel the fire and a lot of selling. It takes away some of the
flight to quality.”  Yields on 10-year notes climbed 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 2.08 percent at 5:14 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
securities due in August 2021 fell 7/8, or $8.75 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 3/8.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.7 percent, and the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index rallied 2 percent. The euro advanced 0.9
percent to $1.3877.  Ten-Year Yields  Ten-year note yields increased as much as 13 basis points,
the most since Aug. 24, to 2.12 percent. They decreased to a
record low 1.8770 percent three days ago.  A drop of more than one point in the 30-year bond today
pushed the yields up nine basis points to 3.36 percent. Yields
on two-year notes were little changed at 0.19 percent.  U.S. debt securities have rallied in 2011 as speculation
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will cripple the region’s
financial institutions and evidence of a stalled U.S. economic
recovery spurred demand for the safest assets.  The government auctioned $32 billion of three-year notes,
$21 billion of 10-year debt and yesterday’s 30-year bonds at
record low yields this week.  Treasuries have returned 8 percent in 2011 in what would be
their best year since the depths of the financial crisis in
2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. U.S.
30-year bonds have returned 24 percent.  Central Banks  The ECB said that in coordination with the Fed, the  Bank of
England , the Bank of  Japan  and the  Swiss National Bank  it will
conduct three U.S. dollar liquidity-providing operations with a
maturity of about three months.  The loans are in addition to the bank’s regular seven-day
dollar offerings and will be conducted as fixed-rate tenders
with full allotment, the ECB said in a statement.  European governments still need to act to contain
sovereign-debt turmoil, according to  Michael Cloherty , head of
U.S. rates strategy for fixed income and currencies in New York
at Royal Bank of Canada, a primary dealer.  “This buys some time, but there’s still underlying issues
that have to be addressed,” Cloherty said. “This is a very
different situation than in 2008 after the Reserve fund broke
the buck, which caused a massive liquidity problem everywhere.
This is more a capital than a liquidity problem. We will still
need to see significant government intervention to address the
underlying issues.”  Reserve Primary Fund  Reserve Primary Fund in 2008 became the first money-market
fund in 14 years to fall below $1 a share, exposing investors to
losses as the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
deepened a crisis of confidence in lending markets.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said yesterday in a statement that they’re
“convinced”  Greece  will stay in the euro region as they faced
international calls to step up efforts in stemming the region’s
debt crisis.  “We’ve had two days in a row of renewed effort on the part
of European Union leadership to coordinate messages and now
possibly actions to stop the quick ratcheting down in asset
values,” said  Jim Vogel , interest-rate strategist at FTN
Financial in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . “The contagion was moving
beyond banks.”  The difference in yield between 10-year Treasuries and
inflation-protected debt, a measure of the outlook for consumer
prices known as the break-even rate, increased to 1.97
percentage points after touching 1.90 percentage points, the
lowest since October 2010.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices advanced 0.4 percent in August after a gain
of 0.5 percent in the previous month, the Labor Department
reported. The median forecast of 84 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for an increase of 0.2 percent.  The Philadelphia Fed’s general economic index increased to
minus 17.5 this month from minus 30.7 in August. The median
forecast was minus 15. Readings less than zero signal a
contraction of manufacturing in eastern  Pennsylvania , southern
 New Jersey  and  Delaware . Manufacturing in the New York region
unexpectedly shrank in September at a faster pace, a report from
the New York Fed showed.  Five-year note yields increased six basis points to 0.94
percent even as the Fed bought $3.299 billion of securities
maturing from October 2015 to February 2017. The purchase is
part of the policy of reinvesting the proceeds of maturing
assets on its balance sheet to keep borrowing costs low.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  may decide to replace
holdings of shorter-term Treasuries with longer maturities at
its two-day policy meeting starting Sept. 20.  Swaps Markets  The premium European banks pay to borrow in dollars through
the swaps markets decreased after the ECB said it will lend
euro-area banks dollars to ensure they have enough of the U.S.
currency through year-end.  The cost of converting euro-based payments into dollars, as
measured by the three-month cross-currency  basis swap , fell 5.28
basis points to 93.13 basis points below the euro interbank
offered rate, or Euribor, indicating a lower premium to buy the
greenback, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The one-year basis swap dropped 3.8 basis points to 66.75
basis points. Basis swaps allow banks to borrow in one currency,
while simultaneously lending in another.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  