-- 
Treasuries Fall After Merkel, Sarkozy Signal Greece Commitment

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-09-15T06:04:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/treasury-10-year-yields-head-for-weekly-gain-on-europe-optimism.html
Treasury 10-year notes declined as
Asian equities rose after Germany and  France  signaled a
commitment to keeping  Greece  in the euro area, damping demand
for the safest assets.  Benchmark bond yields were 12 basis points from a record
low as Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou pledged to meet
deficit-reduction targets, according to statements from
governments in Athens, Berlin and Paris. Treasury-market bets on
inflation were at the lowest in almost a year before a report
that economists said will show consumer price gains slowed in
August. The  Federal Reserve  is today  scheduled  to purchase up to
$3.5 billion of Treasuries.  “Equity markets have recovered with a decent bounce and
bond yields have gone back up toward the 2 percent mark,” said
Grant Hassell, head of fixed income at AMP Capital Investors in
Wellington,  New Zealand . “This will be temporary and we will
see long-end Treasury yields drift back down again and equities
will remain volatile. There is no easy silver-bullet solution to
the issues facing the globe at the moment.”  The benchmark 10-year note yield rose two basis points to 2
percent as of 6:51 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The price of the 2.125 percent securities
maturing in August 2021 fell 1/8, or $1.25 per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 1/8. The 10-year yield slid to a record-low
1.8770 percent on Sept. 12.  Japan ’s benchmark 10-year yield was unchanged at 0.99
percent at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest
interdealer debt broker. It touched this year’s low of 0.97
percent on Aug. 19.  Stocks, Consumer Prices  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said they are “convinced” Greece will stay in
the euro area as they faced international calls to step up
efforts in fighting the region’s debt crisis.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.8 percent following a
1.4 percent advance by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
yesterday.  The U.S. consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent in
August, from 0.5 percent the previous month, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before
Labor Department data. Excluding energy and food costs, which
are usually more volatile, the so-called core gauge rose 0.2
percent, matching July’s gain, the survey shows.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and those on
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities or TIPS, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
securities, narrowed to 1.92 percentage points today from 1.98
on Sept. 9, set for the lowest level since October 2010.  Fed Purchases  The Fed will buy $2.75 billion to $3.5 billion of
Treasuries due from September 2015 to February 2017 today,
according to its  website . The central bank is reinvesting the
principal payments from agency debt and agency mortgage-backed
securities holdings into longer-term  Treasury securities .  Declines in Treasuries were limited on speculation the
 Federal Open Market Committee  will decide to swap holdings of
shorter-term Treasuries with longer maturities at its two-day
policy meeting that starts Sept. 20. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to speak today at a risk conference.  “Expectations for the FOMC still means it’s a very
supportive
environment for Treasuries with the market looking for some
further policy accommodation,” said Tony Morriss, head of
interest-rates research in Sydney at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  