-- 
Rebel Bureaucrat Told to Resign From Japan’s Industry Ministry

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-09-15T09:26:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/rebel-bureaucrat-told-to-resign-from-japan-s-industry-ministry.html
A senior Japanese bureaucrat who
was once assigned to study reform of the country’s civil
service said he will quit the trade and industry ministry after
the new minister,  Yukio Edano , declined to give him a role.  Shigeaki Koga, who as an official in the Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry hasn’t been given duties since 2009
because of his criticism of the bureaucracy, sent an e-mail to
Edano yesterday asking for an assignment, Koga said in a
telephone interview today.  “I received a reply this morning,” he said. “The deputy
vice-minister informed me the minister won’t create a job for me
and I’ve been told to start procedures to quit.”  Koga in May published a book entitled “The Collapse of
 Japan ’s Core.” In the book he criticized slow-decision making
by METI officials as one of the reasons behind the the nuclear
disaster at  Tokyo Electric  Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.
He also issued a 16-point plan in May calling for Tokyo Electric
to be declared bankrupt after the disaster, something the
government has said it won’t allow.  Tsuneyoshi Tatsuoka, the deputy vice-minister, wasn’t
available, a secretary said when contacted by phone.  As a deputy director general in 2008, Koga was assigned to
a government task force on bureaucratic reform, before he was
forced out by other bureaucrats and their political allies, he
writes in the book.  Descent From Heaven  Koga criticizes the practice of “amakudari,” which means
descent from heaven, whereby top bureaucrats obtain positions in
the companies regulated by their ministries.  On returning to METI in 2009, he was forced to
“madogiwa,” which means “sit by the window,” an expression
in Japan that means spending one’s days till retirement doing
nothing.  Koga said he also asked Edano’s predecessor, Yoshio
Hachiro, for an assignment and was similarly rebuffed. Hachiro
resigned on Sept. 10 after a little over one week in the job,
because of inappropriate comments on the Fukushima crisis.  Koga was also involved in restructuring  Resona Holdings
Inc. (8308)  when he was transferred to the Industrial Revitalization
Corp. of Japan and served as a managing director of the state-
backed revival fund.  “I haven’t made up my mind what I will do next,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  