-- 
Record Texas Drought Burns Cotton Farmers as White Gold Withers

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-09-15T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/record-texas-drought-burning-cotton-farmers-as-their-white-gold-withers.html
The month before cotton reached its
highest price ever in March, Brad Heffington bought a 7760 John
Deere picker for $500,000 to help get as much “white gold” as
he could out of his 6,000 acres in West  Texas . Seven months
later, the harvester is for sale. The 43-year-old farmer’s crop
is wilting; the few plants left are too short for the massive
piece of equipment to handle, he says.  At least 65 percent of his crop is gone as drought crushes
growers’ chances of benefiting from record prices, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Sept. 19 issue.  “It’s going to be the year of wisha, shoulda, coulda,”
says Heffington, who has farmed in the biggest cotton patch of
the top-exporting country on the planet for 23 seasons. “It’s
terrible not to be able to take advantage of these prices.”  Farmers in West Texas are still likely to get the highest
spot prices since record-keeping began, according to the Texas
AgriLife Extension Service in Lubbock, the unofficial capital of
the U.S. cotton industry. They should see an average of around
90 cents a pound -- if there’s anything to sell.  The stretch from October 2010 to August 2011 was the driest
11-month period in  Texas  since 1895, when the  National Weather
Service  started tracking such things. Governor  Rick Perry , a
Republican Presidential candidate and son of a cotton farmer,
recently asked supporters to pray for rain. The government
estimates 33 percent of the U.S. cotton crop will be lost,
topping the record of 27 percent in 1933.  ‘Unmitigated Disaster’  “It’s an unmitigated disaster,” says Darren Hudson,
director of the Cotton Economics Research Institute at Texas
Tech University in Lubbock. He says production in West Texas
could fall from the 10-year average of about 4.5 million bales
to 1.5 million.  The industry, which employs an estimated 38,000 in the
state, generates about $6 billion of economic activity in West
Texas. This year may slice that amount by 75 percent, Hudson
says.  “The people who are really going to be hurt bad are all
the  service industries ,” says Jay Yates, a risk specialist with
Texas AgriLife. “Our warehouses are going to be empty. All
those forklifts that load cotton won’t be rented.”  Though the disaster could force weaker farms out of
business, crop insurance will help growers avoid the devastation
wrought by the Dust Bowl, and the exceptionally good year they
had in 2010 provides a buffer. The U.S.’s status as the No. 1
exporter of cotton is safe.  “Even at half our crop, we’re still going to export more
than Brazil and  Australia ,” says Hudson. The drought, however,
shows no sign of letting up, and people may have to plant less
acreage next year. “Two years like this back-to-back would
significantly change things,” Yates says.  ‘Suicide’ Contracts  Growers now worry about committing to a bale contract,
which obligates them to deliver a fixed amount no matter what
Mother Nature hands them. Signing a bale contract is “suicide”
this year, says Wesley Butchee, who farms 2,400 parched acres
south-west of Lubbock. Merchants who buy the cotton are scared
of the opposite -- an acre contract, in which farmers promise
bales based on how much they produce. That can leave merchants
without enough cotton, says Alan Underwood, president of
Underwood Cotton Co., a merchant in Lubbock.  Businessmen such as Underwood don’t want to be the next
Paul Reinhart Inc. Once one of the biggest U.S. cotton
merchants, it filed for bankruptcy in October 2008 after
volatility in the futures market triggered margin calls that
caused significant losses. These days the furthest out Underwood
will contract to sell cotton is 60 days.  Back on Heffington’s farm, he’s left to gather what’s left
of his crop. He says a lot of the cotton that survives has
smaller bolls, which means the fibers will be shorter, and his
production will drop further -- another reason he needs a buyer
for his  Deere & Co. (DE)  picker. He says Australians want such
equipment to harvest a record crop of their own.  “I don’t need that machine,” Heffington says. “It’s an
investment that’s not going to pay me anything this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in  Chicago  at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts in Chicago at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 