-- 
Three Tax Perks That Should End With or Without Jobs Plan: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-15T00:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/three-tax-perks-that-congress-should-end-with-or-without-a-jobs-plan-view.html
In  detailing  how to pay for his
$447 billion jobs plan, President  Barack Obama  put on the table
three tax reforms he’s previously proposed. If the president
gets no points for originality, give him credit for sound
thinking. All three measures are worth adopting.  Most notably, Obama’s plan suggests saving $32 billion over
10 years by repealing federal tax breaks for the oil and gas
industry. These were written over the past 98 years to help what
was once a volatile industry. Breaks for  oil companies  were
created, for example, to keep older fields producing when the
price of oil was low or to attract investors to the historically
risky business of drilling exploratory wells.  Today, such benefits cost taxpayers money while no longer
serving a public purpose. We are not opposed to government
incentives to business, but they ought to encourage activity in
the nation’s interest that otherwise wouldn’t occur. The U.S.
oil industry needs no incubation. It’s a mature business that
does not require a helping hand from the government to find oil
and deliver it to consumers.  Oil prices  are robust and will probably stay high because
of rising demand from  China ,  India  and other emerging economies.
Marketplace rewards, not government tax credits, encourage
entrepreneurs to drill. And modern technologies have greatly
reduced the risks associated with finding oil since the
“intangible drilling costs” tax benefit was put in place in
1913.  Industry insiders usually are the last ones to concede that
a government subsidy has become unnecessary to their business.
Oil executives threaten that, without the concessions, jobs
would be lost and prices at the pump would rise. Given that the
Big Five oil companies last year made cumulative profits of more
than $77 billion, they are essentially threatening that they’ll
take a multi-billion-dollar annual bonus from the public one way
or another. Congress should call that bluff.  The president’s plan would raise $18 billion more over 10
years by eliminating the special treatment of fund managers’
income. Typically, general partners in private equity and hedge
funds, who may or may not contribute capital to the firm, get
most of their earnings as a share of the profits from the assets
under management. This so-called carried interest is taxed at
the capital-gains rate of 15 percent, rather than at the rate
for ordinary income, which can be as high as 35 percent.  Defenders of this perk argue that it is deserved because
fund managers contribute “sweat equity” to the partnership.
That’s a good reason for successful companies to generously
compensate partners, but not to warp the  tax code . Plenty of
other workers sweat to make their corporations more valuable,
but they don’t get to claim their paycheck as a capital gain.  A third reform, valued at $3 billion over 10 years, would
eliminate a concession that allows owners of corporate jets to
depreciate them faster than charter and commercial aircraft --
over five years instead of seven. Obama’s proposal would retain
an earlier stimulus measure that allowed businesses accelerated
depreciation in order to lower the cost of capital investments.
It would just end the especially sweet deal for corporate
planes.  These changes would only begin to address the hundreds of
loopholes, subsidies and other concessions that distort the U.S.
tax code. Weeding those out and creating a simpler, fairer
system requires a comprehensive overhaul. But these three
reforms are a good place to start.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  