-- 
Reliance May Pay 66% More Tax This Quarter, Official Says

-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-09-15T12:07:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/reliance-may-pay-advance-tax-of-20-billion-rupees-official-says.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of
the world’s biggest refining complex, may pay 66 percent more
tax in the three months ending Sept. 30, an official at Mumbai’s
income tax department said.  The company controlled by Indian billionaire Mukesh Ambani,
may pay about 20 billion rupees ($420 million) as so-called
advance tax for the three months ending Sept. 30 from 12 billion
rupees a year earlier, the official said, declining to be
identified citing department policy.  Tata Consultancy Services
Ltd. (TCS) , India’s biggest software exporter, may pay more than
double, the official said.  Companies pay tax in advance based on their estimated
income for the year, a measure monitored by investors as an
indicator of profitability. Reliance’s shares rose to the
highest in a week, while Tata Consultancy advanced 2.6 percent
after the tax numbers were unveiled.  “The advance tax numbers show an earnings scenario that is
better than what people were thinking it would be,” said
Kamlesh Kotak, the Mumbai-based vice-president of research at
Asian Markets Securities Pvt. “It was perceived it would be
negative, but by and large the data shows corporate earnings
will be higher this quarter than a year ago.”  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , owner of the Jaguar and Land Rover
brands, may pay 900 million rupees in taxes, little changed from
a year ago, the tax official said. The 100 largest Mumbai-based
companies may pay 18 percent more tax in the quarter, the
official said.  ‘Cash Reserve’  Manoj Warrier, a spokesman for Reliance Industries declined
to comment on the tax payment. Debasis Ray, a spokesman for Tata
Motors didn’t answer two calls to his mobile phone. Tata
Consultancy doesn’t comment on advance tax figures, the company
said in an e-mail today.  Reliance, India’s biggest company by value, also probably
gained after completing a $7.2 billion deal to sell a 30 percent
stake in 21 blocks to BP Plc last month.  “The profit will probably come from higher earnings from a
larger cash reserve and better refining margins,” said  Deepak Pareek , a Mumbai-based analyst with Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt.
“Operationally though, the performance isn’t likely to be very
strong.”  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , India’s biggest producer, may pay 6.2
billion rupees in tax compared with 5.2 billion rupees a year
earlier, the official said. Prabhat Sharma, a spokesman for Tata
Steel declined to comment.  Tax payout for  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s largest
lender, may fall 11 percent to 17 billion rupees, the tax
official said.  State Bank ’s Chief Financial Officer Diwakar Gupta didn’t answer a call made to his mobile phone.  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC)  will pay 19 percent more
tax at 4.75 billion rupees, the company said in a response to an
e-mail today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  