-- 
Republicans Blamed Most for Ineffective Government in U.S. Poll

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-09-15T13:06:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/republicans-get-most-blame-for-ineffective-governing-in-national-u-s-poll.html
A majority of Americans are angry
and frustrated with elected officials, and more than four in 10
have given up hope in  Washington ’s ability to help them get
through the economic slump.  “It’s the bickering that I can’t stand, and they’re
constantly beating their chests and saying, ‘I’m not budging --
you better,’” said Rose Hutchinson, 40, a technical analyst
from Antioch,  Illinois . “They’ve lost sight of what’s really
the issue. It’s not about Democrats and Republicans. It’s about
Americans not having jobs.”  More than a third of Americans say they “wish” President
 Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans would compromise,
while 28 percent say they are frustrated by the political
fighting, according to a Bloomberg National Poll conducted Sept.
9-12. More than a quarter say they are “angry and want to throw
them all out.”  The findings highlight the depths of public ire directed at
Washington after months of gridlock and brinksmanship between
Obama and  House Republicans , a dynamic that could harm both
sides in next year’s elections. Only 8 percent said they thought
elected officials were doing the best they could.  Evidence that voters are angry enough to kick out their own
party was apparent Tuesday night when Republican Bob Turner won
a special election in a U.S. House district in  New York City 
with voter registration weighted toward the Democrats. “We are
unhappy. I’m telling you. I am the messenger. Heed us,” Turner
said in a victory speech aimed at Washington.  Blame Game  Hutchinson, an independent who said she had never voted
before she cast her 2008 ballot for Obama, now blames the
president for Washington’s dysfunction. “He promised the world
-- he hasn’t delivered a dang thing,” Hutchinson said. “Shame
on me for being an idiot and believing it.”  Most unhappy Americans blame Republicans for the problems
in Washington. The survey shows that 39 percent of poll
respondents blame either Obama or congressional Democrats while
45 percent pinned responsibility on congressional Republicans.  “You can’t take any one poll in isolation,”  U.S. Senator
 Mike Lee , a Utah Republican, told Bloomberg Television today
when asked about the numbers. The poll result “highlights a
broad dissatisfaction among the American people with the way
their government has been operating,” he said.  The poll shows anger and frustration highest among
Republicans -- 62 percent of whom described themselves that way
-- and independents, 58 percent of whom did. It’s also prevalent
among Democrats, with 41 percent expressing those sentiments.  Political Games  “I’ve been a registered Republican for 50 years or more,
but I don’t like what they are doing,” said Ray DiPietro, 78, a
retiree who lives in Minoa,  New York . Republicans “are more
concerned about getting Obama out of office than with making
things right,” he said.  DiPietro said he gets several e-mails a day from Republican
supporters who put Obama down and “tear him apart, and that’s
no way for grownups to talk.” The retiree, who supported
passage of Obama’s health-care law, said there’s “no way in
hell” he will vote for a Republican in 2012.  Indianapolis Republican Nicole Olin shares his angst.  “They seem like they are unwilling to budge as far as tax
increases,” said Olin, 31, a bank supervisor. “If this country
is ever going to get out of trouble, they are going to have to
compromise.”  Undecided Voter  Olin said families have to cut spending and bring in more
income in tough times, and the government should do the same.
She hasn’t decided how she will vote in next year’s presidential
race.  “I do put the majority of the blame on the Republicans,
because they seem to be the least willing to give up anything,”
she said. “Just because a majority votes you in doesn’t mean
you don’t have to compromise in one way, shape or form to make
sure you do what’s good for everyone.”  A driver of the public’s disillusionment with Washington
was the debt-ceiling battle earlier this year that took the
nation to the brink of default before a compromise was reached
in early August.  Of those who described themselves as angry, frustrated or
yearning for compromise, 71 percent said the debt-limit debate
intensified those feelings.  “There’s nobody, it appears to me, that’s interested in
the benefit of the country or of the people,” said Don
Himmelright, 70, a retired government worker from  Las Vegas .
“They’re all interested in themselves and their jobs.”  ‘Fed Up’  Himmelright said he had been a registered Democrat for 49
years before switching his affiliation to independent last year
out of disgust with Obama, whom he supported in 2008.  While he blames Republicans most for the problems he sees
in Washington, he says he’s “fed up” with Obama and the two
top congressional Democrats: House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi 
of California and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada .  Himmelright called the battle over borrowing authority --
during which Republicans refused to consider tax increases to
contribute to debt reduction -- “a joke.”  Obama and lawmakers “had the opportunity to do great
things, but because of this grandstanding and refusing to
entertain any kind of a tax increase, they just missed their
chance.”  The poll of 997 adults was conducted by Selzer & Co., based
in  Des Moines ,  Iowa , and has a margin of error of plus or minus
3.1 percentage points.  Majority Are ‘Hopeful’  Even with the anger and frustration expressed by the
majority of respondents, 54 percent described themselves as
“hopeful” that Washington would get something done in the next
year that would help them or their family economically. Forty-
three percent said they “have given up hope” that Washington
could positively impact them.  Karen Blixt, 58, a musician from  Albany ,  California , said
she is among those optimists. A Democrat, she blamed Republicans
for obstructing Obama’s agenda and was equally scathing of the
president, who she said had abandoned his principles in search
of a compromise with unreasonable opponents.  “What I really wish is that Obama would put his foot
down,” Blixt said.  Republicans were most likely to have given up hope -- with
56 percent saying they had, compared with 41 percent who were
still hopeful. Independents were split between 49 percent who
said they were hopeful and 48 percent who said they had
abandoned hope. Seventy-three percent of Democrats said they
still had hope.  “It’s just too hard to believe our democracy could get any
worse,” Blixt said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  