-- 
Republicans Use Solyndra to Bash Obama’s Plan

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-09-15T19:32:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/republicans-use-solyndra-to-bash-obama-s-plan.html
House Republicans  used a hearing on
Solyndra LLC’s slide into bankruptcy to attack the Obama
administration’s stimulus plans, past and proposed, showing the
issue may linger as a political liability for the White House.  The Fremont,  California , solar-panel maker won a $535
million federal loan guarantee in September 2009, the first
awarded by the Energy Department, using funds from that year’s
stimulus package. The company filed for  bankruptcy protection  on
Sept. 6, and the FBI raided its offices two days later.  Republicans released a report at a House Energy and
Commerce Committee panel hearing yesterday that they said showed
White House officials sought to rush a decision on the loan
award, and that Energy Department officials failed to see signs
of the rising risks in supporting the company.  Solyndra is a “poster child” of the first stimulus and a
reason to oppose Obama’s proposed $447 billion package intended
to create jobs, Representative Steve Scalise, a Louisiana
Republican, said at the hearing.  “I hope you understand now why a lot of us are real
skeptical when the president says, ‘Pass the bill now,’ because
he did that with the stimulus bill, and we see the failure the
failure there,” Scalise told two Obama administration officials
called to defend the Solyndra loan award yesterday.  In a Sept. 8 address to Congress, Obama outlined a plan
that includes payroll tax cuts, an extension of unemployment
assistance, and new construction spending to lower an
 unemployment rate  that has hovered above 9 percent.  “This is exactly what we get when the federal government
tries to put money into businesses and tries to pick winners and
losers,” Representative Mike Pompeo, a Kansas Republican, said.  Denying  Climate Change   Democrats led by Representative Henry Waxman of California
said Republicans were using Solyndra to taint other clean-energy
projects. Global competitors led by China spend billions of
dollars to support their green industries, threatening to
dominate the growing market for alternative energy sources, he
said.  “The majority of Republicans on this committee deny that
climate change is real,” Waxman, the top Democrat on the House
Energy and Commerce Committee, said. “If you are a science
denier there’s no reason for government to invest in clean
energy.”  Republicans were trying to “discredit clean energy,”
Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, said at
the hearing.  $9.6 Billion Provided  The Energy Department has provided about $9.6 billion in
loan guarantees to 18 developers and manufacturers since 2009.
An additional 14 projects have received conditional commitments
for $9.2 billion in guarantees, according to the Energy
Department website.  Representative  Cliff Stearns , a Florida Republican who is
chairman of the House investigations panel, said the
administration should halt the program to protect taxpayer money
and “somebody should be fired” over the support for Solyndra.  Documents collected during the Republicans’ investigation
“raise troubling questions” about whether the staff of the
Office of Management and Budget “was rushed to complete its
review of the Solyndra loan guarantee by Sept. 4, 2009, in time
for a groundbreaking event organized at Solyndra’s facilities
organized by the White House,” according to the report.  Protecting Taxpayers  The  Department of Energy  and the Office of Management and
Budget “did not take adequate steps to protect taxpayer
dollars,” according to the report.  Moira Mack, a spokeswoman for the Office of Management and
Budget, disputed a statement in the Republican report that OMB
reviewed the loan award in only nine days.  “OMB was briefed for months dating back to the previous
administration,” Mack said today in an e-mailed statement.
Jeffrey Zients, deputy director of the Office of Management and
Budget, described his agency’s review of the risks associated
with the loan guarantee as thorough at the House hearing
yesterday.  Obama administration officials weren’t trying to influence
or accelerate the Solyndra review, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said yesterday.  ‘Scheduling Matter’  The e-mails in the committee report show only that “there
was an urgency to make a decision about a scheduling matter,”
he told reporters traveling with Obama to an event in  North
Carolina . “People were simply looking for answers about whether
or not they can move forward.”  Carney said he hasn’t discussed the matter with Obama. The
administration stands by its investments in alternative-energy
technology, he said.  Republicans also criticized the administration’s decision
to let taxpayer support for Solyndra take a back seat to $75
million in funds from new investors in a restructuring of the
loan terms earlier this year.  In testimony to the committee, Jonathan Silver, executive
director of the Energy Department’s loan office, said the
restructuring gave the company “a fighting chance to compete
and succeed,” and that the U.S. may still recoup some of its
money through the bankruptcy process.  Exiting the Field  Silver said pressure from  China , not from senior
administration officials, led the department to support clean-
energy companies. That nation provided $30 billion in credit to
its largest solar manufacturers last year, about 20 times the
U.S. investment, Silver said.  “What we can’t do is exit the playing field,” given
projected growth in clean energy markets globally, Silver told
reporters after the hearing.  House Energy and Commerce Chairman  Fred Upton , a Michigan
Republican, said in a time of record debt, “I question whether
the government is qualified to act as a venture capitalist.”  Brian Harrison, Solyndra’s chief executive officer, and
Bill Stover, its chief financial officer, will testify before
the House panel on Sept. 23, according to the committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  