-- 
Resistant Bacteria Neglected by Drugmakers Give Cubist $2 Billion Market

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-09-15T20:17:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/resistant-bacteria-neglected-by-drugmakers-give-cubist-2-billion-market.html
Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. (CBST)  is
working to combat a group of bacteria largely neglected by
drugmakers with a medicine analysts say may have $2 billion in
sales potential.  The drug, CXA-201, last month entered the final stage of
tests generally required for U.S. approval and is about a year
ahead of rivals under development. It aims at a difficult-to-
treat family of bacteria, called gram-negatives, that are
developing resistance to existing medicines and spreading among
hospital patients, said  Arjun Srinivasan , of the U.S. Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention.  Gram-negatives may make up almost half of about 2 million
hospital-acquired infections annually in the U.S., said  Brad
Spellberg  of Harbor-UCLA Medical Center in Torrance,  California .
Drug companies have focused more on gram-positive bacteria such
as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA, another
cause of hospital infections. At least five new antibiotics
against MRSA, including Cubist’s Cubicin, have been approved in
the last 10 years, said David Livermore, of the U.K.’s Health
Protection Agency.  “The issue is, very simply, we’re running out of
antibiotics for gram-negatives,” Spellberg, an associate
professor of medicine who works at the center’s Los Angeles
Biomedical Research Institute, said in a telephone interview.  Conference Focus  This weekend,  gram-negative bacteria  such as pseudomonas
and klebsiella will take center stage at the  Interscience
Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy , or  ICAAC ,
in  Chicago . The bacteria can infect the lungs, causing damaging
mucus buildup, and trigger urinary tract infections and blood
poisoning that may be fatal if not treated properly, said
Livermore, director of the U.K. agency’s  Antibiotic Resistance
Monitoring and Reference Laboratory , in a telephone interview.
While antibiotics such as ceftazidime are currently used, gram-
negative bacteria are becoming increasingly resistant to
available options, Srinivasan said.  CXA-201, the drug candidate from Lexington, Massachusetts-
based Cubist, combines a novel molecule active against
Pseudomonas aeruginosa with an enzyme inhibitor that works
against Klebsiella pneumoniae and E. coli, another member of the
gram-negative family, said Steve Gilman, the biotechnology
company’s chief scientific officer.  Drug Acquisition  Cubist gained CXA-201 in its 2009 purchase of Calixa
Therapeutics Inc. It is 12 to 18 months ahead of products being
developed by London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Forest
Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  of New York, and if approved stands to reap as
much as $2 billion in annual revenue by 2020, said  Ian Sanderson , an analyst with Cowen & Co. in  Boston , in a telephone
interview.  Cubist rose 62 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $33.16 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
gained 55 percent this year, outpacing a 4.7 percent gain for
the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index of 125 companies.  Bacteria are grouped by the way they react to a staining
method developed in the 1880s by Danish scientist Hans Christian
Gram. Gram-negatives account for more infections among already
sick patients than do gram-positives, though Staph aureus
remains the most common hospital-associated U.S. infection, said
Srinivasan, the Atlanta-based CDC’s associate director for
Healthcare-Associated Infection Prevention Programs.  “We’ve been winning against bacteria for a very brief
period in human history,” Livermore said. “Bacteria have been
catching up with us, taking their revenge. Particularly with
gram-negatives, we now face a time when we’re rather short of
antibiotics, and treatment is becoming more difficult.”  First Product  Cubist’s first marketed product, Cubicin, targets MRSA, an
organism that kills about 19,000 Americans annually, according
to a February policy paper from the Infectious Diseases Society
of America. That medicine, approved in 2003, generated $625
million for Cubist in 2010 sales -- 98 percent of the company’s
revenue -- and Cubist forecasts peak annual sales of at least $1
billion in the U.S.  CXA-201, in a mid-stage trial reported in June, showed a 91
percent clinical cure rate versus 94 percent for a comparator
antibiotic in complicated intra-abdominal infections, meeting
the study’s non-inferiority goals. Cubist is also testing the
medicine in complicated urinary tract infections, starting a
final-stage trial last month.  The drug is designed to be particularly effective against
 pseudomonas , described by Spellberg as “the granddaddy of
highly resistant gram-negatives.”  ‘Big Scary Bugaboo’  “For decades, pseudomonas has been the big scary
bugaboo,” Spellberg said in a telephone interview. Lurking on
hospital bed rails, curtains and walls, it can live “in
virtually any environment” and “can become resistant to
everything.”  Pharmaceutical companies have shied away from developing
medicines for gram-negative bacteria in part because nature gave
those organisms more tools to battle antibiotics than their
positive-reaction brethren, Spellberg said.  “Gram-negatives have an outer protective membrane, and a
number of ways to remove any antibacterial that gets across
those membranes,” Cubist’s Gilman said. “Gram-negatives seem
to have stepped up a bit in the resistance mechanisms.”  Gram-positives don’t have the same additional protective
layer, and have less of an ability to pump antibiotics back out
beyond the cell’s walls, Livermore said.  Infection Spread  In the last decade or so, other gram-negative pathogens
have spread. CXA-201 isn’t as effective against klebsiella or E.
coli as an experimental drug from Forest, in collaboration with
London-based  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , said Alan Carr, an analyst with
Needham & Co.  “Both of them are good drugs, but neither of them is
perfect,” the New York-based analyst said in a telephone
interview. “They each leave gaps in coverage.”  Cubist’s lead in the gram-negative arena may make it an
appealing acquisition for larger drugmakers, Sanderson said. He
cited Basel, Switzerland-based  Novartis AG (NOVN) , Cubist’s partner on
Cubicin; AstraZeneca; Paris-based Sanofi and New York-based
Pfizer Inc., the world’s largest drugmaker, as potential buyers.  “A handful of companies have made a big recent effort in
the infectious disease space,” Sanderson said. Cubist “would
be a turn-key infectious disease infrastructure in terms of
sales and marketing and R&D.”  Cubist’s Gilman said the company is confident it can
“recreate the Cubicin value proposition” with CXA-201, and
said Cubist doesn’t comment on market rumors.  “What we can do is focus on developing CXA-201, doing the
best we can as fast as we can,” Gilman said. “Our discovery
organization is working hard to find new classes and extensions
of other classes. CXA-201 will do a whole heck of a lot if it’s
approved, but there’s always going to be more need.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  