-- 
Trichet to Euro Officials: Get ‘Ahead of Curve’

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-09-15T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/trichet-urges-euro-officials-to-get-ahead-of-curve-in-crisis.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  pressed euro-area governments to take
decisive action to halt the debt crisis, after the ECB bought
them more time by extending an emergency lifeline to lenders.  Trichet said finance ministers meeting in Wroclaw, Poland
today need to show the same “unity of purpose” as central
banks did yesterday in providing extra dollars to European banks
bruised by the crisis that has seeped from Europe’s edges to its
core.  “We are not back to ‘business as usual’ as some thought
some months ago,” Trichet said late yesterday in Wroclaw. “We
call all authorities to implement swiftly all decisions and to
be constantly ahead of the curve.”  Eighteen months of crisis-fighting and 256 billion euros
($355 billion) in aid for Greece, Ireland and Portugal have
failed to stabilize markets. The turmoil has spread to Italy and
 Spain , sending tremors through  Europe ’s banking system and
leading to speculation that a currency meant to be permanent
might break up.  European finance ministers are also braced for a dressing-
down from U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , attending
his first euro-crisis meeting at the invitation of the host
Polish government, a country still using its own currency.  The stewards of the 9.5 trillion-euro economy must “do
more to earn the confidence of the world, that they have the
political will to do this,” Geithner said on Sept. 14.  Euro-area ministers meet on their own at 7:30 a.m. today. A
press conference is scheduled for 12 p.m. Meetings of all 27
European Union finance ministers and central bankers follow in
the afternoon and tomorrow morning.  Slowing Growth  The debt overhang is taking its toll on the wider economy,
the  European Commission  said yesterday. It cut its growth
forecast to 0.2 percent for the third quarter and 0.1 percent in
the fourth, down from projections of 0.4 percent for both
periods.  The ECB was the focus of the crisis management yesterday,
offering a series of three-month dollar loans to ease a
liquidity crunch that had confronted European banks with the
highest costs for obtaining the U.S. currency in almost three
years.  The ECB’s move and a pledge by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to keep  Greece  in
the euro and prevent a default gave a lift to markets. Global
stocks and the euro rallied yesterday, and bonds of debt-laden
countries outperformed German bonds, the benchmark for Europe.  ‘Decisive Battle’  Greece’s two-year bond yield fell 12.96 percentage points
to 61.52 percent. Fresh from a conference call with Merkel and
Sarkozy, Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  promised a
“decisive battle” for budget cuts to persuade European
governments and the  International Monetary Fund  to pay an 8
billion-euro loan installment later this month.  “Implement and you get the next payment,” IMF Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said on CNBC yesterday. “Time is
running short and the Greek authorities have to deliver.”  Central bankers pushed for speedy enactment of a July 21
decision by political leaders to enable a government-financed
rescue fund to buy the bonds of troubled states, taking that
task off the ECB’s hands.  Country-by-country approval of the fund’s enhanced powers
inched forward yesterday, with Spain and Luxembourg voting in
favor. So far, five of the euro area’s 17 governments have
ratified the upgrade of the fund, known as the European
Financial Stability Facility.  German Vote  The key vote is on Sept. 29 in  Germany , where Merkel is
struggling to muffle dissident voices inside her coalition that
have raised the prospect that Greece will go bankrupt and,
ultimately, leave the currency union.  Merkel allies ganged up on Economy Minister Philipp Roesler, head of the Free Democrats, the junior coalition
partner, who had promoted default as a possible way of trimming
Greece’s debt of close to 160 percent of gross domestic product.  Roesler should “perhaps be a bit more careful” and avoid
“reckless” chatter that unsettles markets, Michael Meister,
parliamentary finance spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union , told reporters in Berlin yesterday.  The ECB has bought 143 billion euros of bonds, starting
with Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland last year and widening the
support operation to Italy and Spain in August. The commitment
to propping up wobbly bond markets is a stopgap, designed to end
as soon as the rescue fund can take over, council member Ewald Nowotny said.  ‘Rethink Everything’  The ECB would have to “rethink everything” if the EFSF
isn’t strengthened in time, Nowotny told Austrian state radio
ORF. “This is a very sensitive situation.”  European officials are close to an agreement on how the
upgraded fund will use its new powers, which include bond
purchases in the primary and secondary markets, precautionary
credit lines and a bank-recapitalization facility.  Pre-emptive credit lines may go as high as 10 percent of
GDP, or 160 billion euros in the case of  Italy . Such sums would
potentially exhaust the fund’s 440 billion-euro war chest and
force European leaders to put in more.  Separately, negotiators for governments and the  European
Parliament  cleared the way for a toughening of deficit and debt
rules with more automatic sanctions for violators, plastering
over a crack in the euro’s foundations.  The penalties are the central pillar of a six-part
legislative package that includes closer monitoring of national
competitiveness. The EU parliament and national governments
still need to ratify the accord.  “Europe is built on crises, but it doesn’t go backward,”
Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said in Wroclaw late
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Wroclaw,  Poland  at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Wroclaw, Poland at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  