-- 
Klein: Perry Puts True Faith in (Political) Science:

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-09-15T00:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/rick-perry-s-career-shows-he-puts-faith-in-political-science-ezra-klein.html
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  doesn’t
have a reputation as the most scientifically inclined of
candidates. On the campaign trail, he told an 11-year-old that
Texas schools teach both evolution and creationism because kids
are “ smart enough to figure out which one is right .”  It’s an interesting approach to education: Ever tried to
figure out if the periodic table is accurate? Ever tried it
before you turned 12?  It turned out not to matter, though, because Texas does
not, in fact, require teachers to teach creationism.  Soon after, in his first Republican presidential debate,
Perry was asked whether he could name any scientists who would
back up his contention that the scientific foundation of global
warming “is not settled.” He came up empty. Then, he compared
his position on the issue to that of Galileo, who Perry said was
also “outvoted for a spell.” This prompted former Utah Governor
 Jon Huntsman  to sigh and warn the crowd that the  Republican
Party  “can’t run from science.”  But there’s one kind of science that Perry is willing, even
eager, to run on: political science. And that should have his
opponents worried.  In his upcoming book “ The Victory Lab ,” Sasha Issenberg
digs deep into Perry’s campaign organization, which he calls
“the brainiest political operation in America.” After seven
straight wins at the ballot box, Perry’s organization is also
among the most fearsome in America. And there’s nothing
unscientific about it. In fact, compared with Perry’s
organization, every other campaign in America appears in denial
of the evidence.  Perry’s Hero  The hero of this story is Dave Carney, Perry’s campaign
manager and a guy who embraced political science in order to
attack the traditional campaign-industrial complex.  Carney never really liked how campaigns were run. Where
others saw time-tested tactics and the sage advice of veterans,
Carney, like reformers in many fields, saw unquestioned biases
and a preference for campaigning conventionally, which you never
get blamed for doing, over campaigning unconventionally, which
can get you tossed out of the profession if you lose.  For a long time, Carney kept his discontent relatively
quiet. After all, he still had to get hired and work in the
field. Then, in 2004, Carney ordered a book by Alan Gerber and
Don Green, a pair of Yale University political scientists who
had tried six years earlier to measure the influence of
political mail, phone calls and home visits by partnering with
the  League of Women Voters  to test different approaches in their
outreach campaign. Their conclusion? Phone calls did nothing and
direct mail did very little, but walking up to someone’s door
and having a conversation actually mattered.  “The fact that they had done all these studies that show
mail and phones don’t work -- I thought, ‘We spend a lot of
money on mail and phones,’” Carney told Issenberg. “If it’s not
working, let’s spend it on things that do work, or don’t spend
it.”  But the question of what worked, and what didn’t work,
couldn’t be answered by one study conducted by piggybacking onto
one interest group’s outreach campaign. So Carney invited
political scientists into Perry’s 2006 gubernatorial re-election
bid. He allowed them to create, in effect, a laboratory for
experiments testing different forms of campaigning.  That was, to say the least, an unorthodox use of both the
campaign’s money and the candidate’s time. And the candidate
wasn’t known for his excessive regard for academics. “You don’t
have to have a Ph.D. from Harvard in political science to
understand our economics,” Perry liked to say.  Four Eggheads  But Carney thought there was another side of Perry that the
initiative could appeal to: He was cheap. And evidence can be a
boon to cheapskates. “When you’re spending 25 million on an
election and you can save 2 percent, that’s a lot of money,”
Carney said. “You’ll have more money to spend on something that
works.”  Carney invited four political scientists -- “our four
eggheads,” he would call them -- into the campaign, and let them
run wild testing ad buys, candidate visits, yard signs and the
like. Some of what they found backed up conventional wisdom. The
effect of television ads, they learned, decayed rapidly, so the
conventional wisdom, that you don’t go on the air until you can
afford to stay on the air, held.  Other findings were more surprising. A visit from the
candidate had an enduring impact, both in the minds of voters
and in the favorability of the local news coverage. Direct mail,
robocalls, newspaper ads and visits to local editorial boards
didn’t much matter, so Carney banished them from the next race.
Most of the voters Perry was targeting were using social media
heavily, so his campaign focused on creating virtual networks
rather than opening regional campaign offices, a traditional
mainstay of statewide races.  Perry easily won his subsequent elections.  That’s a lesson that Governor -- potentially, President --
Perry could apply to the science of  global warming , as well. If
we take the science seriously, we have a chance of avoiding the
worst consequences. If we fail at that, at least we’ll have some
idea of what to expect -- heavier storms, hotter summers, higher
sea levels, more flooding, more droughts, geopolitical and
economic instability -- and be able to get a head start on
preparing for it.  But if we ignore the science, the results will not be good
for cheapskates or anyone else. A powerful hurricane is a
problem if you’ve prepared for it. It’s a catastrophe if you
haven’t. A rise in global temperature of 2 to 3 degrees Celsius
is something we could probably adapt to. The nightmare scenarios
in which temperatures rise by as much as 6 or 7 degrees Celsius
could trigger atmospheric and environmental responses far beyond
anything we can readily absorb.  Perry’s invocation of Galileo speaks to the point. Galileo
was relaying accurate empirical data that would have required an
entrenched, faith-based political system to radically change its
ideas, policies and plans. It was easier simply to arrest
Galileo. Similarly, climate scientists today are relaying
accurate empirical data that would require a sclerotic political
system to radically change its ideas, policies and plans.
Shouting down the scientists might be easier, but in the long
run it will prove much more expensive. If Perry needs convincing
of that, he can just ask Carney and the eggheads whose data-
driven labors helped put Perry in position to run for president.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  