-- 
Perry Supported By Republicans in Poll as Plurality Reject Views

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-09-15T04:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/rick-perry-supported-by-republicans-in-poll-showing-plurality-reject-views.html
Republicans give  Rick Perry 
frontrunner status in their party’s presidential primary race
even as warning signs flash over his ability to win support in
the general election.  The Texas governor is the preferred choice of 26 percent of
Republicans and Republican-leaning independents in a Bloomberg
National Poll conducted Sept. 9-12. Former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney places second at 22 percent, while all of
the other Republican candidates get less than 10 percent.  In a hypothetical general election matchup, Perry trails
President  Barack Obama  among the poll’s entire sample, 49
percent to 40 percent, about twice the deficit for Romney. Perry
also confronts negative reactions from Americans disinclined to
vote for a candidate expressing the skepticism he has about the
viability of Social Security, evolution science and whether
humans contribute to  climate change .  “Science is an integral part of our culture,” said
Danyelle Lowers, 27, a student at Kent State University in Kent,
 Ohio , who considers herself an independent voter. “To have such
a general disregard for the sciences is rather terrifying.”  Still, positions and statements that could hurt Perry in a
faceoff with Obama work to his advantage with his most immediate
audience -- Republican primary voters.  “Perry leads in the primary contest in part because some
of his most famous stands don’t turn off the primary electorate
all that much,” said J. Ann Selzer, president of Des Moines,
Iowa-based  Selzer & Co. , which conducted the poll. “In the
general election, these issues will matter more.”  Favorability Ratings  Perry, 61, who joined the Republican field last month,
starts the race viewed unfavorably by 41 percent of Americans
and favorably by 32 percent. More than a quarter haven’t yet
formed an opinion.  The most publicized campaign issue focusing on Perry -- his
characterization of Social Security as a “Ponzi Scheme” -- has
Americans divided. Among all respondents, 46 percent said they
agree with the remark, while 50 percent said they disagree.  Among Republicans, 65 percent agree with Perry’s statements
about Social Security, while 33 percent disagree. Independents
are nearly equally split.  Poll participant Annie Baker, 30, a homemaker who lives in
Crestwood,  Kentucky , and said she leans Republican in most
elections, called Perry’s terminology “strong verbiage,” even
as she agreed with his assessment of the federal retirement
program.  Independent Voters  “I don’t see how it’s self-sustaining at all,” she said
of Social Security. “It doesn’t seem like something that is
going to be able to give us back the returns that we are giving.
You ask yourself if you are ever going to see this money
again.”  Some of the other positions Perry has taken could also
present difficulties for him in a general election when
independent voters are the key to winning.  Forty-five percent of Americans say they’d be less inclined
to support a candidate who says science isn’t settled on whether
human activity contributes to global warming, while 25 percent
said it would make them more likely to back that candidate. Half
said they would be turned off by a candidate who says evolution
remains an unproven theory, with 20 percent saying they’d be
more inclined to support someone who holds that view.  Women Split  Among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents, men
are more often drawn to Perry over Romney, while women are
equally split between the two. Younger Republicans more often
prefer Romney to Perry, with Romney holding an advantage of 24
percent to 13 percent among those under 35.  Perry’s polling strengths include Tea Party supporters and
those who describe themselves as “born again” or
fundamentalist Christians. He leads Romney 31 percent to 21
percent among Tea Party supporters, and has the backing of 29
percent among those self-described Christians, compared with 15
percent for Romney.  Romney, 64, led in most national polls of Republicans until
Perry entered the race Aug. 13. Romney’s numbers in the
Bloomberg poll are almost the mirror image of Perry’s -- he is
stronger in the general election than in the primary contest.  A proposal from Romney, the co-founder of Boston-based
private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC, to eliminate taxes on
 capital gains , dividends and interest income for individuals
making $200,000 or less per year is supported by 60 percent of
Americans. Even among Democrats, 43 percent say it’s a good
idea.  Romney was the only Republican tested in the poll who was
viewed more favorably than unfavorably by all respondents.  Obama Match-Up  Also among the entire sample, Obama leads Romney in a
hypothetical match-up, 48 percent to 43 percent. Among
respondents who said they are likely to vote in 2012, a group
that is hard to discern 14 months before the election, Romney
leads Obama, 48 percent to 45 percent.  The poll of 997 adults has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.1 percentage points and plus or minus 3.6 points for
likely general election voters. Among the Republicans and
Republican-leaning independents, the error margin is 4.2
percentage points.  Republicans with the highest unfavorable ratings are former
Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, who has said she may reveal her
presidential ambitions before the end of this month, and former
U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia , whose presidential
campaign has struggled to gain traction. Palin is viewed
negatively by 66 percent of Americans, while Gingrich is
disliked by 55 percent.  Support Levels  Among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents in
the poll, Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota ,
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas and Palin are all bunched
together with support between 8 percent and 9 percent.
Businessman Herman Cain and Gingrich follow at 4 percent, former
Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  at 2 percent and former Utah
Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. at 1 percent.  With some filing deadlines for primary contests six weeks
away, 57 percent of Republicans who say they will definitely
vote for someone other than Obama -- or would at least consider
doing so -- are happy with the field of their party’s
candidates, while 40 percent say they wish they had another
choice.  Poll participant Rex Hammond, 53, a business association
manager who lives in Lynchburg,  Virginia , said he plans to vote
for Perry or Romney in his state’s primary.  ‘Resonating’ With Voters  “You have to look at the campaigns that are resonating
with the public,” he said. “At this point, it appears that
Romney’s and Perry’s campaigns are.”  Hammond said he is watching the candidate debates as he
weighs his decision to see how the two men “handle adversity”
and how they “think on their feet.”  For Hammond, the most important issues are jobs and
 government spending .  “Our deficit is placing us in a severe insolvency
situation,” he said. “Rampant government spending and over-
regulation have had extremely detrimental effects on  job
creation  in America.”  Amid a Republican nomination contest in which the  Tea Party 
is playing a major role, a majority of Americans -- 52 percent -
- view the movement as a mostly negative force in the nation’s
politics, while 37 percent see it in a mostly positive light.  Corporations Remark  Among Republicans, 70 percent view Romney favorably,
compared to 65 percent for Perry. Part of the difference stems
from Perry being more of an unknown, with nearly a quarter of
the Republican sample saying they are still forming their
opinions about him.  Some of the positions on issues candidates other than Perry
have taken could also prove detrimental to them in the general
election, the poll shows.  Romney’s statement that “corporations are people” makes
40 percent of Republicans more inclined to support him, while 45
percent of general election voters find that statement
unappealing.  Expressing opposition to any tax increase even in exchange
for 10 times as much in federal spending cuts -- a position
taken by all of the Republican candidates at an Aug. 11 debate -
- is viewed positively by 42 percent of Republicans and
negatively by 49 percent of general election voters.  Almost half of primary voters would be less interested in a
candidate who wants to abolish the  Federal Reserve , while 62
percent of general election voters feel that way.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in  Chicago  at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in  Washington  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 