-- 
RIM, Facebook Received Police Requests for U.K. Information About Rioting

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-15T15:38:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/rim-facebook-received-police-requests-for-u-k-riot-information.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and
Facebook Inc. said they received requests for information about
user activities from U.K. police investigating the country’s
worst riots since the 1980s.  RIM’s BlackBerry messenger service was used by some of the
rioters to organize and the acting police commissioner
considered blocking social-networking websites and messaging
services during the unrest, lawmaker Keith Vaz said today at a
parliamentary hearing.  While “social media was used for malicious purposes,” it
was also used as a “force for good,” Stephen Bates, RIM’s U.K.
managing director, said at the hearing.  In August, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said the
government was considering whether to block the websites and
services to hamper looters and violence. Facebook said the
government had since indicated it wouldn’t seek further powers.  A suspension of social media would be “an absolutely
horrible idea,” Twitter Inc. General Counsel Alexander Macgillivray said at the same hearing.  Twitter wasn’t in discussions with the police, Macgillivray
said. “There’s nothing they need from us.”  More than 3,300 people were arrested across the U.K.
following the rioting in cities including  London , Birmingham and
Manchester, police have said. The violence caused Cameron to
recall Parliament for an emergency session to discuss measures
for dealing with the unrest.  The police need to develop new mechanisms for dealing with
the “novelty factor” of social media, Richard Allan,
Facebook’s European public policy director, said today. The
company has contacts with the police so they “understand what
they can and can’t ask for,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net 
 Z US <Equity>
 Z US <Equity>
RIM CN <Equity> 