-- 
RIM Slumps on Concern Waning Sales Make It ‘Niche Player’

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-09-16T20:24:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/rim-misses-analysts-estimates-on-blackberry-playbook.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , struggling
to compete in the smartphone and tablet computer markets,
plunged 19 percent in Nasdaq trading after its earnings report
disappointed investors for the third consecutive quarter.  The maker of the BlackBerry smartphone is losing ground in
that market to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices that use  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. RIM has made little progress with its
PlayBook in the tablet computer market, shipping just one device
for every 46 iPads that Apple sold in the latest quarter.  “RIM is on a path to becoming a niche player,” said Ted Schadler, an analyst for Forrester Research Inc. “RIM has to
essentially retrench its strategy. It has to focus on what about
its products make them different or better than Apple or Google
products.”  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, fell $5.61 to $23.93 at 4
p.m.  New York  time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, the largest drop
in three months. The stock has lost 59 percent this year.  Profit for the fiscal second quarter, excluding some costs,
fell to 80 cents a share, RIM said yesterday in a statement.
Analysts predicted 88 cents, according to a Bloomberg survey.
Revenue fell to $4.17 billion in the three months through Aug.
27, compared with the average estimate of $4.47 billion.  “RIM’s earning misses over the past few quarters has
tainted investors’ confidence,” said Blaine Carroll, an analyst
with Rodman & Renshaw LLC in New York. He has an “outperform”
rating on the stock.  At least three analysts downgraded their ratings on the
stock, including Steven Li of Raymond James Ltd. in Toronto, who
dropped his recommendation to “market perform.”  Disappointing Shipments  The company shipped about 200,000 PlayBooks, compared with
the average estimate of 490,000 units. Analysts have cut
estimates for full-year PlayBook sales to an average of 2.2
million. In its last quarter Apple shipped 9.25 million iPads.  RIM shipped 10.6 million BlackBerrys last quarter. Analysts
predicted 11.9 million, according to the average of 10 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Co-Chief Executive Officer  Jim Balsillie  attributed the
sluggish shipments to lower-than-expected demand for older
devices that have struggled to compete with the iPhone and
Android devices such as the Samsung Galaxy. He also said on a
conference call yesterday that RIM’s latest handsets, which run
on a new BlackBerry 7 operating system, are “having an
excellent reception.”  ‘Challenging’ Few Months  Co-CEO  Mike Lazaridis  said RIM will issue a software
upgrade for the PlayBook next month that will include dedicated
e-mail, contacts and calendar programs, as well as software to
allow the PlayBook to run Android applications. RIM drew
criticism for introducing the PlayBook in April without e-mail
and a shortage of apps like  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  movies.  Lazaridis also said prototypes of phones built on a new QNX
operating system that already underpins the PlayBook will be
available “in the not-too-distant future” and that he will
give more details at a conference in  San Francisco  next month.  “RIM is still going to have a challenging next few months
until the QNX products are out and the Android app products are
available,” said Alkesh Shah, an analyst at Evercore Partners.
“The transition probably doesn’t finish until sometime mid to
late 2012.”  RIM forecast third-quarter revenue of $5.3 billion to $5.6
billion and shipments of between 13.5 million and 14.5 million
BlackBerrys. Earnings excluding charges related to job cuts will
be in the range of $1.20 to $1.40.  Analysts estimated sales of $5.3 billion, 13.8 million
units shipped and earnings per share of $1.38.  Under Review  RIM also said that earnings for the year, excluding some
costs, would be at the low end of its previous forecast of $5.25
to $6 a share.  “We don’t trust those numbers,” said Jeff Fidacaro, an
analyst at Susquehanna International Group in New York.  RIM’s share of the global smartphone market dropped to 12
percent in the second quarter from 19 percent a year earlier,
according to Gartner Inc. In the same period, Apple climbed to
18 percent from 14 percent, and Google’s Android, used in phones
from Samsung Electronics Co. and Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc., rose to 43 percent.  Net income fell 59 percent to $329 million, or 63 cents a
share, from $797 million, or $1.46, a year earlier.  “Remain skeptical of guidance,” said Phillip Huang, an
analyst at UBS AG in Toronto, who kept his “neutral” rating
unchanged. “RIMM needs fundamental change in vision and
strategy, and its transition to QNX must be near flawless to
garner support from developers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  