-- 
Rio Tinto Cuts Debt Costs As Yields Drop to Record Low: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-09-16T07:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/rio-cuts-debt-costs-amid-record-low-yields-australia-credit.html
Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s
second-biggest mining company, took advantage of near record-low
yields to cut debt costs as company bond sales in the U.S. this
month swell to $40 billion while Australia’s market slows.  Rio Tinto, with 45 percent of its $89 billion of gross
assets in Australia and New Zealand, sold $2 billion of notes
due in 2016, 2021 and 2040 on Sept. 14 with coupons as low as
2.25 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S.
industrial corporate notes yield an average 3.5 percent, or 2.4
percentage points less than Australian counterparts, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  “The three big attractions of the U.S. market are size,
tenor and pricing,” said  Mark Mitchell , head of credit at
Sydney-based Kapstream Capital, which manages A$4.2 billion.
“Companies such as Rio Tinto can generally issue longer-dated
paper, in bigger size and at a tighter spread in the U.S. market
as compared to Australia.”  Rio Tinto will spend a further $833 million expanding in
the Pilbara region in Western Australia, it said yesterday, amid
a flurry of mining investment that’s forecast to reach A$82.1
billion in the 12 months ending June 30 next year as demand for
commodities from  China  and India stokes prices. The funding
required for the expansion isn’t swelling Australia’s bond
market, which hasn’t seen an offering from a mining firm since
2004, Bloomberg data show.  Westfield, SP AusNet  The proceeds of the sale will be used for general corporate
purposes, Karen Halbert, a Melbourne-based spokeswoman for Rio,
said by phone yesterday.  U.S. corporate bond sales have totaled $41.6 billion in
September while a A$15 million ($15.3 million) issue for IMB
Ltd. was the only Australian offering by a borrower without
government backing prior to today, Bloomberg data show.  Colonial Finance Ltd. sold A$250 million of two-year
floating-rate notes priced to yield 150 basis points more than
the three-month bank bill swap rate, according to an e-mailed
statement today from Commonwealth Bank of Australia, which
managed the sale. Rabobank Nederland’s Australian unit added
A$300 million to an existing line of floating-rate
notes due in July 2016, Australia &  New Zealand  Banking Group
Ltd. said.  Investors are demanding 194 basis points of extra yield
compared to  government bonds  to hold  U.S. dollar  industrial
corporate securities, according to a Merrill Lynch index. The
equivalent Australian spread is 229 basis points, the indexes
show.  The largest non-financial corporate sale in Australia this
year was Westfield Retail Trust’s offering of A$900 million of 7
percent October 2016 notes, while SP AusNet’s 10-year securities
had the longest tenor, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Cheap’ Financing  Rio Tinto, based in  London  and rated A- by  Standard &
Poor’s , sold $500 million of five-year, 2.25 percent notes on
Sept. 14 that were priced to yield 148 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. The spread
narrowed to 124 basis points today, according to Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Ltd. prices.  The mining company also sold $1.15 billion of 10-year, 3.75
percent debt and $350 million of 5.2 percent bonds due November
2040, both at a spread of 178 basis points, Bloomberg data show.  “That’s a very cheap form of financing,” said Brad Newcombe, a director at FIIG Securities Ltd.,  Australia ’s
largest specialist fixed-income brokerage. “It’s a great deal
for them, and it’s cheaper to hit the U.S. markets than
Australia.”  Sovereign Debt Rally  A U.S. sovereign debt rally has helped push yields on
investment-grade corporate bonds to an average 3.79 percent,
compared with an all-time low of 3.45 percent on Aug. 4,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate
Master index.  The weighted average coupon on Rio Tinto’s outstanding
bonds is 5.8 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Investors have poured more than $32 billion into U.S. bond funds
this year as of Sept. 7, according to EPFR Global, a Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based research company.  Rio Tinto will invest $833 million in power and fuel supply
projects to help increase  iron ore  production capacity in
 Western Australia  by 50 percent in the five years through 2015,
according to a statement yesterday. Rio said it will install two
gas-fired turbines as part of a new power station near the West
Angelas mine site and build a turbine at the Yurralyi Maya power
station near Dampier.  Iron Ore Production  The company aims to expand its annual iron ore production
capacity in the Pilbara region to 283 million metric tons in
2013 from 225 million tons, it said. Rio also plans to boost
capacity to 333 million tons a year in 2015.  Rio Tinto’s bond sale is taking advantage of the low rates
“currently on offer,” said Colin Tan, credit analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG in Sydney. “The strong demand for the issue
partly reflects the pricing but also suggests there’s cash on
the sidelines waiting to be invested in investment-grade
corporates with strong balance sheets.”  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  raised
 interest rates  seven times beginning in October 2009, to 4.75
percent in November 2010 to help control inflation.  Europe ’s Debt Crisis  Since then, bond yields have plummeted as Europe’s debt
crisis caused turmoil in global markets while at home,  consumer
confidence  dropped and unemployment rose.  Australia’s benchmark 10-year yield rose 9 basis points to
4.24 percent at 4:39 p.m. in Sydney today, and has fallen from
5.55 percent since the start of the year. The notes yield 216
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries.  Bond investors are estimating Australian consumer prices
will rise at an annual 2.57 percent pace over the coming five
years, according to the gap between indexed government debt and
bonds that aren’t linked to inflation.  Rio Tinto, facing rising wages, higher energy bills and
currency gains in Australia and  Canada , said last month that
underlying first-half profit rose 35 percent to $7.8 billion,
below the $8.3 billion mean estimate of nine analysts compiled
by Bloomberg.  Australia’s dollar has surged 10 percent against the
greenback in the past year, and bought $1.0337 as of 5 p.m. in
Sydney today.  Concern the global economic recovery is stalling has
boosted the perceived risk of Australian corporate bonds.  Bondholder Protection  The Markit iTraxx Australia index of credit-default swaps
rose to 194.8 basis points on Sept. 12, the most since July
2009, according to data from CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The gauge surged to 443.3 in March 2009 amid the credit
freeze following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
The index was at 176 basis points at 10:38 a.m. in Sydney today,
according to Credit Agricole CIB prices.  Contracts on Rio Tinto have surged 48.2 basis points this
quarter to 147.4 on Sept. 15, according to CMA. A gauge of
default-swaps on 29 miners rose 58 basis points to 205.6.  Australia’s second-quarter mineral and energy commodity
export earnings rose 12 percent from the previous three months,
led by surging demand for coal, the nation’s commodity
forecaster said yesterday. For the year to June 30, resources
and energy exports surged 27 percent to a record A$175 billion,
the  Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics  said.  Chinese Demand  China, the world’s biggest buyer of iron ore, boosted
purchases 8.3 percent in August to the highest in five months as
demand and prices rose.  Rio Tinto has never sold bonds in the Australian currency,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  last
issued in Australian dollars in 2001, the data show. Mitsubishi
Development Pty., a unit of Mitsubishi Corp., sold A$150 million
of three-year notes in August 2004 in the most recent sale by a
mining company in the Australian debt markets, according to
Bloomberg data.  “It would be good to see more issuers here and Rio would
provide a diversifying exposure,” said  John Sorrell , head of
credit at Tyndall Investment Management Australia Ltd. in
Sydney, which manages about A$14 billion of fixed-income assets.
“While I think they would find healthy appetite from investors,
they have shown limited interest to use it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
 James Paton  in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 