-- 
Risk of Europe Bank Crisis ‘Incredibly Low,’ Hasentab Says

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-09-15T02:17:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/risk-of-europe-bank-crisis-incredibly-low-hasentab-says-1-.html
The risk that a Greek default could
spur a financial crisis in  Europe  is “incredibly low,” because
the  European Central Bank  has pledged to lend in the event of a
credit seizure, according to  Michael Hasenstab , a portfolio
manager at Franklin Templeton Investments.  “The market’s fears of a systemic crisis coming out of
Europe are overstated,” Hasenstab, who helps oversee $150
billion as co-director of fixed income, told reporters in  Sao
Paulo  yesterday. “Certainly in emerging markets, there’s too
much fear. The risk of a systemic collapse in the banking system
is incredibly low given the ECB has committed to provide
liquidity. That is a key element that differentiates this period
of volatility from 2008.”  San Mateo California-based Franklin Templeton is largely
invested in domestic fixed-income instruments, mostly sovereign
debt, Hasenstab said. The $60.7 billion Templeton Global Bond
Fund, run by Hasenstab and Sonal Desai, had its largest
investments in  South Korea , Australia and  Malaysia  as of June 30,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. It’s second in size only to
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Total Return Fund among
actively managed U.S. debt mutual funds.  If the ECB and the Federal Reserve print money to ease
credit strains, it could have a “mildly positive” net effect
for emerging markets by encouraging inflows, Hasenstab said.  He said it’s “too early to tell” whether the Brazilian
central bank made the right decision by cutting the benchmark
Selic target rate a half point, to 12 percent, last month after
raising it at their previous five meetings.  “The Brazilian central bank has built up a lot of
credibility by bringing inflation under control so that will
give them some time,” he said. “Emerging markets should
continue tightening or at least not be too quick to loosen
because I think conditions in most emerging markets are
reasonably positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  