-- 
SIF2 May Sell BCR Stake to Erste in a $750 Million Buyout

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-09-15T10:17:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/romania-s-sif2-may-sell-bcr-stake-to-erste-on-holders-accord.html
SIF Moldova SA, which was left out
of a buyout accord between  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and four minority
shareholders in a Romanian lender, may also consider selling its
stake.  The fund, known as SIF2 and not part of a 435 million-euro
($598 million) agreement between Erste and four other funds in
Banca Comerciala Romana SA, will continue talks with the
Austrian lender by tomorrow to allow a shareholder vote on Sept.
23 or Sept. 24, Chief Executive Officer Costel Ceocea said.
Adding SIF Moldova to the deal would boost the transaction’s
value to 543 million euros.  “If our shareholders vote for a share sale to Erste, then
we would probably enter the same agreement with this maximum
level offered by Erste after further negotiations,” Ceocea said
in a phone interview today. “If we have the shareholders vote,
a transaction could be completed by the end of the year.”  Erste, eastern  Europe ’s second-biggest lender, agreed with
four of the five SIFs to buy their 24.1 percent stake in its BCR
unit. The funds would receive a total of 453.9 million lei ($145
million) in cash for their shares and a stake of as much as 1
percent each in Erste through a share swap once the transaction
is completed.  “Under the same terms as announced yesterday, SIF Moldova
would receive a little more than 4 million Erste shares and 26
million euros in cash,” Erste said in an e-mailed response to
Bloomberg questions. “The total value of the transaction with
the SIFs would amount 543 million euros.”  Minority Shareholders  The agreement would raise Erste’s stake in BCR to 93.5
percent, while the five SIFs would become one of the biggest
shareholders in the Vienna-based bank, with a combined stake of
about 5 percent.  SIF2’s shareholders must decide next week on whether to
demand a BCR listing of the bank on the stock exchange, sell the
stake to Erste or develop structured products, such as
derivatives or warrants, according to Ceocea.  When it agreed to buy a 61.9 percent stake in BCR in 2005
for 3.75 billion euros, Erste pledged to list BCR’s shares
within three years to give the SIFs an exit option. It agreed
with the funds to delay that target date to October this year
because of adverse market conditions. Earlier this year, Erste
Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl said he would now rather
add to his 69.4 percent stake than list.  ‘Missed Opportunity’  “We were surprised by Erste’s statement because we think
there are still several technical and financial details that
remain unclear, and we want them to be clarified as soon as
possible,” Ceocea said. “The SIFs lost an important advantage
in negotiating with Erste because they didn’t stick together and
missed the opportunity to obtain a better deal.”  The SIFs will waive their rights to request a listing of
BCR and to special dividends, according to the agreement. The
four SIFs that signed the agreement are SIF Banat-Crisana SA,
SIF Transilvania SA, SIF Muntenia SA and SIF Oltenia SA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  