-- 
Tropical Storm Maria May Become Hurricane Today Near Bermuda

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-15T12:02:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/tropical-storm-maria-may-become-hurricane-today-near-bermuda.html
Tropical Storm Maria may become the
third hurricane of the Atlantic season today as it passes west
of  Bermuda , according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center.  Maria’s top winds were at 65 miles (100 kilometers) per
hour, the hurricane center said in an  advisory  before 8 a.m.
Miami time. The storm, already dumping rain on Bermuda, was 200
miles west-southwest of the island group and moving north-
northeast at 26 mph, the center said.  Bermuda issued a  hurricane watch  yesterday to signal winds
of at least 74 mph are possible in the area within a day. Maria
is predicted to pass about 131 miles west-northwest of the
islands at its closest, at 1 p.m. today, the Bermuda Weather
Service said in a  statement .  In Bermuda, “winds will rapidly increase to 40-50 knots
(46 mph to 58 mph) by later this morning with even stronger
winds possible in the west,” the service said. “Heavy showers
and thunder will accompany the winds into this afternoon before
easing.”  As much as 3 inches (8 centimeters) of rain may fall on
Bermuda today, according to the NHC. Tropical storm-force winds
of at least 39 mph extend as far as 205 miles to the north and
east from Maria’s eye, it said.  The  Canadian Hurricane Centre  said on its website that
Maria may pack 75 mph winds later today, exceeding the 74 mph
threshold for a hurricane, and pass just south of the coast of
Newfoundland tomorrow after weakening again to a tropical storm.  Canadian offshore energy facilities operated by  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Hibernia Management &
Development Co. are near the storm’s projected path, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 