-- 
Royal Bank of Canada Plans More ETFs After Bond Funds Launch

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-15T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/royal-bank-of-canada-plans-more-etfs-after-bond-funds-launch.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , which started
selling its first exchange-traded funds today, plans to roll out
more index-based investments targeting what it calls “gaps”
ignored by other firms.  “We plan to be very deliberate in our launches,” RBC
Global Asset Management Chief Executive Officer John Montalbano
said in an interview. “We will take a look at both the equity
and fixed-income spectrum, and identify where we think there is
a key gap.”  Royal Bank’s wealth-management unit aims to distinguish
itself with funds distinct from those offered by other ETF
providers. RBC is entering this market with eight corporate bond
funds with targeted maturities between 2013 and 2020.  “The intent is to have them very much look and feel like
an individual bond, which is something that is very different
from existing products in the Canadian marketplace,” RBC Global
Asset Management Vice President Cary Blake said in an interview.  Royal Bank joins  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  among Canadian lenders
selling index-based funds. Bank of Montreal started selling ETFs
in June 2009 and now has 40 funds with C$3 billion ($3 billion)
in assets under management, according to the Toronto-based bank.  BlackRock Inc., with its iShares brand, has C$27.7 billion
in ETF assets in  Canada . Claymore Investments Inc. says it has
C$6.7 billion in assets under management, including 31 ETFs.  Vanguard Group Inc., the largest U.S. mutual fund company
with $1.6 trillion in assets, last month filed documents with
regulators to launch its first Canadian ETFs.  Royal Bank isn’t seeking to be “all things to all people”
with its ETF strategy, Montalbano said.  “The incumbents right now are all very strong,”
Montalbano said. “We’re not going to replicate their
strategy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  