-- 
Rupiah Weakens as Foreign Funds Sell Stocks on Europe Crisis

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-09-15T09:24:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/rupiah-weakens-as-foreign-funds-sell-stocks-on-europe-crisis.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah weakened for an
eighth day, trading near the weakest level in seven months, as
overseas investors sold the nation’s assets on concern Europe’s
debt crisis will hurt Asia.  Foreign funds sold $259 million more Indonesian shares than
they bought in the first three days of this week, according to
exchange data. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday they are “convinced the
future of Greece is in the euro zone.” Bank Indonesia
intervened in the rupiah and bond markets yesterday after the
currency dropped by as much as 2.6 percent, Deputy Governor
Hartadi Sarwono said.  “Statements from Europe have helped ease concerns a bit
but the fear is there that the European crisis has come to
Asia,” said Lindawati Susanto, head of treasury at PT Bank
Resona Perdania in Jakarta. “ Bank Indonesia  made the correct
move yesterday by intervening as they don’t want to see
volatility in the currency.”  The rupiah fell 0.1 percent to 8,803 per dollar as of 3:45
p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, after
gaining by as much as 0.7 percent earlier. It touched 8,939
yesterday, the weakest level since Feb. 14.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  committed to meeting
deficit-reduction targets, demanded as a condition for an
international bailout, according to statements distributed by
governments in Athens, Berlin and Paris.  Central banks intervene in  currency markets  by arranging
purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Indonesia has $125
billion in reserves with which to defend the rupiah.  Overseas holdings of the country’s government bonds
declined 2 percent in the first three days of this week to 245.9
trillion rupiah ($27.9 billion), debt management office data
show.  The yield on the government’s 8.25 percent security due
July 2021 was unchanged at 7.02 percent today, according midday
prices from the Inter-Dealer Market Association. The rate has
climbed 61 basis points this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  