-- 
S&P’s Chambers Sees One-in-Three Chance of Another U.S. Credit Downgrade

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-09-15T17:52:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/s-p-s-chambers-sees-1-in-3-chance-of-another-u-s-downgrade-1-.html
John B. Chambers, a managing
director of  Standard & Poor’s , said today that there is a one-
in-three chance of another U.S. debt downgrade, though a change
may not occur until late 2012 or 2013.  “If there were another downgrade, it would probably be
because something has happened with the budget control act, that
it has somehow been watered down” or “the fiscal committee
doesn’t deliver the goods,” Chambers said. “Hopefully things
turn around” and fiscal restraint “would enable us to see the
ratings stabilize.”  S&P on Aug. 5 lowered the country’s long-term rating one
level to AA+ and kept the outlook at “negative,” saying it was
becoming less confident in lawmakers’ ability to tackle the
deficit. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed
their AAA credit ratings for the U.S. on Aug. 2, the day
President  Barack Obama  signed a bill that ended a debt-ceiling
impasse that had pushed the country to the edge of default.  Instead of falling in value after S&P said the U.S. was
less creditworthy, Treasuries rallied and the government’s
borrowing costs fell to record lows. While stocks fell, wiping
$2.5 trillion from the market value of global equities on the
first trading day after the downgrade, the gain in benchmark 10-
year government notes sent yields down almost a quarter
percentage point, to 2.32 percent. Yields have continued to
fall, reaching 2.08 percent today.  Spending Cuts  Congress created the 12-member bipartisan supercommittee
last month in legislation resolving a standoff over raising the
federal debt limit. The panel was instructed to create a 10-year
plan to cut at least $1.5 trillion by Nov. 23. The law requires
automatic, across-the-board spending cuts if Congress doesn’t
pass a plan.  “We have a negative outlook on the rating,” Chambers,
chairman of S&P’s sovereign-debt rating committee, said today at
the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in  New York , tied to the
magazine’s ranking of the 50 most influential leaders in global
markets, finance, business and government. “An outlook says
there is at least a one in three chance of a lowering of the
rating over a six to 24 month time frame.”  The increase in bond prices, and lowering of yields,
following the downgrade wasn’t necessarily a surprise, he said.  Credit Risk  “The embedded additional credit risk that our rating
indicates is going to be pretty marginal, particularly compared
to the value investors will assign to liquidity,” Chambers
said. “Our ratings speak to a very narrow subject: the capacity
and willingness of an issuer to pay its debt on time. Credit
risk is a factor when you are making an  investment decision , but
also liquidity is a factor.”  Speaking on the same panel, Peter Peterson, co-founder of
Blackstone Group LP and founder of the Peter G. Peterson
Foundation, said he agreed that the outlook for U.S. government
finances is difficult.  “When I look at the debt-limit fiasco, it certainly would
send doubts to any reasonable person as to whether we are ready
to confront the really tough problems,” he said.  Chambers said there is little room for Congress to spend
more to stimulate growth following the deepest recession since
the 1930s.  “We are coming to an end to our fiscal space,” he said.  The  U.S. budget deficit  is projected to be $1.3 trillion in
the year ending Sept. 30, down from $1.4 trillion forecast in
April, because of curbs on federal spending and increased
income-tax collections, the  Congressional Budget Office  said
Aug. 24.  Congress’s deficit-cutting supercommittee may receive a
push to increase its $1.5-trillion savings target from a
bipartisan group of about 25 senators. The informal group, about
evenly split between Democrats and Republicans, met this week to
discuss principles they might propose, said Senator  Chris Coons ,
a Delaware Democrat, and two other senators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  