-- 
UBS, HSBC, SAC, Commerzbank, Berkshire in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-09-15T12:23:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/sac-capital-madoff-news-corp-commerzbank-berkshire-in-court-news.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
said it may be unprofitable in the third quarter after a $2
billion loss from unauthorized trading at its investment bank.  London police arrested Kweku Adoboli, a UBS employee, in
connection with the loss, according to a person with knowledge
of the matter who declined to be identified. City of London
police and UBS declined to identify the man.  UBS management aims to “get to the bottom of the matter as
quickly as possible, and will spare no effort to establish
exactly what has happened,” the bank’s group executive board,
led by Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel , said in a memo to
employees today. “While the news is distressing, it will not
change the fundamental strength of our firm.”  The bank tumbled as much as 9.6 percent in Swiss trading
following the announcement, which deals a blow to Gruebel’s
attempts to rebuild the investment bank after the division
recorded 57.1 billion Swiss francs ($65 billion) in cumulative
pretax losses in three years through 2009. The trading loss may
revive calls for Gruebel to shrink or shut the unit.  “How many times do we have to see huge UBS losses?” said
 Simon Maughan , head of sales and distribution at MF Global Ltd.
in London. “It looks unreformed, unwieldy and ultimately
unsustainable. This could be a critical tipping point for UBS’s
strategy.”  A man was arrested in central London at 3:30 a.m. on
“suspicion of fraud by abuse of position,” the London police
said in a statement today. The man remains in custody and an
investigation has begun, the police said.  The matter is still under investigation and the “current
estimate of the loss on the trades is in the range of $2
billion,” UBS said in a statement today, the third anniversary
of the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. No client
positions were affected, the company said, declining further
comment.  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  HSBC Dropped From Lawsuit Alleging Silver Futures Manipulation  HSBC Holdings PLC (HSBA)  is no longer a defendant in a lawsuit by
investors who claimed the bank and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
manipulated silver futures and options prices in violation of
U.S. antitrust law.  The investors said in consolidated class-action complaint
filed yesterday that they signed a tolling agreement with HSBC
and weren’t naming the bank as a defendant. Tolling agreements
are often used to stop statutes of limitation from running while
the parties discuss settlement or dismissal of a claim.  The investors claim that, starting in March 2008, the banks
colluded to suppress silver futures so that call options, or the
right to buy, would decline, and put options for the right to
sell would increase, according to the complaint filed in federal
court in Manhattan.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission began probing
allegations of price manipulation in the silver futures market
in September 2008.  Investors seek to represent a class of thousands of people
and companies that held or traded silver futures and options on
June 26, 2007, or from March 17, 2008, to Oct. 27, 2010.  A call to London-based HSBC seeking comment on the matter
after regular business hours yesterday wasn’t immediately
returned.  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for New York-based
JPMorgan Chase, declined to comment.  The case is31 In re Commodity Exchange Inc. Silver Futures
and Options Trading Litigation, 11-cv-2213, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Cohen, SAC Are Dismissed From $8 Billion Fairfax Lawsuit  Billionaire Steven A. Cohen and his SAC Capital Advisors LP
won their bid to be dropped from an $8 billion lawsuit accusing
them and other hedge funds of spreading negative information to
drive down  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) ’s stock price.  New Jersey  Superior Court Judge Stephan C. Hansbury in
Morristown granted Cohen and Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC
Capital’s request that he rule in their favor without the need
of a trial.  The complaint is dismissed against them with prejudice,
meaning that it can’t be refiled, according to the Sept. 12
order.  Fairfax, a Toronto-based insurer, sued the hedge funds in
2006, alleging they acted to harm the company because they were
betting its stock price would decline. The hedge funds named in
the suit, including James Chanos’s New York-based Kynikos
Associates LP and Daniel Loeb’s New York-based Third Point LLC,
have denied Fairfax’s accusations.  “Fairfax intends to appeal the ruling, which it believes
is incorrect,” Seth Faison, a spokesman for Fairfax, said in an
e-mailed statement. “Otherwise, Fairfax remains confident in
its claims against the other defendants. Indeed, a central basis
for SAC’s motion was that it was very differently situated from
the other defendants and did not trade in the same manner as the
other defendants.”  “After five years of litigation, the court’s ruling
affirms, as we have always maintained, that this vexatious
proceeding against us was entirely baseless and without
merit,’” Peter Nussbaum, SAC’s general counsel, said in an e-
mailed statement.  The case is Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. v. SAC Capital
Management LLC, L-2032-06, Superior Court of New Jersey, Morris
County (Morristown).  For more, click here.  Sonja Kohn Asks London Court to Dismiss Madoff Clawback Claim  Sonja Kohn, the former chairwoman of Bank Medici AG in
Austria, asked a London court to dismiss a lawsuit against her
filed by the U.S. trustee liquidating convicted conman  Bernard
Madoff ’s investment company.  The London court doesn’t have jurisdiction and the
liquidator,  Irving Picard , doesn’t have a valid claim against
Kohn, her lawyer, Terence Mowschenson, said at a hearing
yesterday. No creditors of the U.K. unit, Madoff Securities
International, lost money, Kohn’s lawyer said.  “The London company can’t have suffered any loss,”
Mowschenson told Judge Julian Flaux. “It was merely a vehicle
for paying money to a number of people” so it’s “difficult to
see what the allegation of loss is.”  Picard sued Kohn and the former directors of Madoff’s U.K.
unit for a total of $80 million in December. More than $27
million was funneled through the London office to Kohn “in sham
transactions purported to be payments for research and other
services but which were actually kickbacks paid out of” the New
York company, Picard said in a statement at the time.  Mowschenson said yesterday that the payments were for
research and referring clients to Madoff.  “Among the people she introduced were the largest
financial institutions in the world,” Mowschenson said.
“There’s nothing wrong in her being paid by way of
commission.”  Madoff pleaded guilty in March 2009 to using money from new
investors to pay off old ones in a Ponzi scheme, sparking
investigations and dozens of lawsuits. He is serving 150 years
in prison in North Carolina for the fraud that destroyed his New
York-based firm, which collapsed in December 2008.  The case is Madoff Securities International Ltd. v. Stephen
Ernest John Raven, 10-1468, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division (London).  Brooks Loses Bid for ‘Core’ Role in U.K. Phone-Hacking Probe  Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s British publishing unit, lost a bid to have formal legal
representation in the U.K. government’s inquiry into phone
hacking.  Brooks, who was arrested in July, shouldn’t be a so-called
core participant in the inquiry’s hearings because she resigned
as CEO, according to a judgment yesterday by Justice Brian
Leveson, who is leading the review. Core-participant status and
right to have a lawyer present was granted to 46 lawyers and
potential hacking victims, including Harry Potter author J.K.
Rowling and British actor Hugh Grant.  “Had Mrs. Brooks still been employed by News International
Ltd., it may be that she would have coordinated its response;
that responsibility now passes to someone else,” Leveson said
yesterday. News Corp.’s U.K. unit and the Metropolitan Police
were also given core-participant status.  The probe of the culture, practices and ethics of the press
was announced on July 13 by U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron,
nine days after the revelation that journalists at News Corp.’s
News of the World hacked into the phone of murdered school girl
Milly Dowler. The probe’s scope extends beyond the now-shuttered
tabloid, covering the wider press, including journalists’
contact with politicians and the police.  Brooks, 43, edited the News of the World from 2000 to 2003
and then The Sun newspaper until 2009 before being promoted to
CEO of News International, which published both titles. She
stepped down on July 15, two days before being arrested.  While Brooks was editing the News of the World, the
company’s private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  was hacking into
celebrities’ mobile phones to get scoops for reporters. She has
denied knowing about the practice. Mulcaire pleaded guilty to
hacking and was jailed in 2007.  A spokeswoman for Brooks with Bell Pottinger in London,
declined to comment.  Police, who have arrested 16 people since reopening the
hacking probe in January, are also investigating whether
journalists bribed officers for confidential information. The
scandal led New York-based News Corp. to close the 168-year-old
tabloid and drop its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.3 billion) bid for
full control of British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc.  For more, click here.  Birmingham City’s Yeung Loses Court Permission to Travel  Hong Kong’s High Court overruled a lower court decision
allowing  Birmingham International Holdings Ltd. (2309)  Chairman Carson
Yeung to leave Hong Kong while on bail, according to Yeung’s
lawyer Clive Grossman.  “The reason given was that there is a risk he may not come
back,” said Grossman about the ruling by Judge Peter John Line
in Hong Kong’s Court of First Instance yesterday.  Yeung was allowed last month by a lower court judge to
travel to London from Sept. 15 to Sept. 19 to meet with players
and management of British soccer club Birmingham City. Yeung is
charged with five counts of money laundering involving HK$721.3
million ($92 million).  Hong Kong’s Department of Justice asked the High Court to
review the lower court’s order at a closed-door hearing
yesterday.  Department spokeswoman Sherlin Fu confirmed the result of
the hearing. She declined to further comment on the case.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Apple IPad Data Was Given to Fleishman, Samsung Witness Says  An ex-Samsung Electronics Co. manager, testifying at the
insider-trader trial of Primary Global Research LLC executive
James Fleishman, told jurors he disclosed confidential shipping
data for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPad components.  Suk-Joo Hwang, who worked for 14 years at the U.S. division
of Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, told jurors yesterday in
federal court in New York after he was granted immunity from
prosecution by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who’s presiding
over the case.  Hwang said that during lunch at a restaurant in Mountain
View, California, with Fleishman and a hedge fund manager he
identified as “Greg,” he gave them confidential information
about Samsung’s shipment of liquid crystal display screens it
was supplying to Apple. The iPad made its U.S. debut in April
2010, four months after the lunch.  “One particular thing I remember vividly was that I talked
about the shipment numbers of Apple, it was about iPad,” he
said. “This is in December 2009, before it came out with the
tablet PC, they didn’t know the name then, so I talked to them
about the tablet shipment estimates in that meeting.”  Fleishman, of Santa Clara, California, is charged with two
counts of conspiracy for facilitating a scheme in which
employees at public companies passed confidential information to
fund manager clients of Primary Global, also known as PGR, a
Mountain View-based expert-networking firm. He has pleaded not
guilty to the charges and faces as long as 25 years in prison if
convicted.  Chris Goodhart , a Samsung spokeswoman in San Jose,
California, declined to comment on Hwang’s testimony. Steve
Dowling, a spokesman for the Cupertino, California-based Apple,
also declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Fleishman, 11-cr-00032, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Commerzbank Sued in Singapore by Ex-Dresdner Workers  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-largest lender, was sued
by 10 former employees at its Dresdner Kleinwort unit in
Singapore claiming they were entitled to S$9.5 million ($7.7
million) in bonuses.  The former workers at the investment bank claimed they were
given false assurances and induced to stay on because of the
proposed bonus to be paid in January 2009, according to a
lawsuit filed with the Singapore High Court in July.  “Dresdner Bank was entitled to reduce its employees’ 2008
discretionary bonuses in the light of the marked deterioration
in the investment bank’s performance in late 2008,” Commerzbank
said in an e-mailed statement Sept. 13. The German lender will
“vigorously” defend against the claims, it added.  Commerzbank has also been sued by former Dresdner bankers
in London and Frankfurt over prospective 2008 bonuses.
Commerzbank, which sought 18.2 billion euros ($25 billion) from
the German state after  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  collapsed
in 2008, acquired Dresdner Bank AG in January 2009.  Dresdner’s investment-banking operations posted a 6.3
billion-euro loss for 2008.  Kenneth Tan, a lawyer for the former employees, declined to
comment on the Singapore lawsuit.  The former employees based in Singapore were informed in
December 2008 of their target bonus, which ranged from S$233,099
to S$3.7 million, according to the court filing.  In February 2009, Commerzbank Chief Executive Officer
Martin Blessing sent employees an e-mail announcing the cut in
bonus for 2008, according to the court papers.  Commerzbank is seeking to dismiss the lawsuit, calling the
claims “scandalous” and “vexatious,” according to its
defense filed last month.  The case is Brader v. Commerzbank AG, S486/2011, Singapore
High Court.  National Football League Retirees Sue Union Over Contract  National Football League  players favored current players
and rookies over retirees in negotiating a labor contract with
the league, retirees said in a lawsuit.  Current players shortchanged them in negotiations with the
league, cutting back a commitment to increase pensions to pre-
1993 retirees and changing post-career medical options, retirees
said in a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
Minneapolis. The retirees are suing as group, seeking class-
action status to represent all retired NFL players.  Current players and the union have a “conflict of
interest” in representing retirees, former players said in the
complaint. Ex-players Carl Eller, Chuck Bednarik, Lem Barney and
25 others asked the Minnesota court to set aside issues related
to retirees in the current contract and require renegotiation.  The union and current individual players “had no authority
to negotiate with the league the terms of pension, retirement,
and disability benefits with respect to the class of retired NFL
players,” Eller and the others said in the complaint. The
retirees asked the Minnesota court to give them bargaining
rights and benefits with the league.  “There was a tradeoff for the benefit of currently active
players, free agents and rookies” in the new contract, Michael
Hausfeld, a lawyer for the retirees, said yesterday in an
interview. “We’re talking about the rights of people who are no
longer players and have no employment relationship with the
league.”  George Atallah, spokesman for the National Football League
Players Association, didn’t immediately return a call and e-mail
seeking comment on the complaint.  The case is Eller v. National Football League Players
Association, 11-cv-02623, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota (Minneapolis).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Barclays Wins Ruling Against Lehman in Fight Over Bonuses  Barclays Plc (BARC)  defeated a bid by Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. to recover $500 million from the British bank in a dispute
over the bankruptcy sale of Lehman operations in 2008.  Lehman said Barclays was required to pay $2 billion in
employee bonuses as part of the acquisition and paid only $1.5
billion. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in Manhattan ruled
against Lehman in a decision filed yesterday, calling Lehman’s
claims “baseless.”  “In common vernacular, this is a ‘no harm, no foul’
situation in which Lehman has not been hurt regardless of the
amounts paid by Barclays to transferred employees,” the judge
wrote.  The dispute stems from the purchase by Barclays of Lehman’s
North American broker-dealer following the investment bank’s
September 2008 bankruptcy filing. Lehman previously lost a bid
to recover what it said was an $11 billion windfall that went to
London-based Barclays.  Lehman argued it should be awarded $500 million in damages
resulting from Barclays’s failure to meet its obligation to pay
the full amount of bonuses. The bonus payments were part of the
consideration in the sale, Lehman said.  Peck said in his decision that the $2 billion was only an
estimate of the total compensation amounts that were to be
assumed by Barclays in the transaction. Lehman no longer has
liabilities to the employees for bonuses thanks to the sale and
hasn’t suffered damages, Peck said.  “Today’s decision importantly confirms that Barclays acted
in good faith in its dealings with Lehman, just as the court
held in its February decision rejecting Lehman’s effort to
modify the sale order,” Barclays attorney Jonathan Schiller,
managing partner of Boies, Schiller & Flexner, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Kimberly Macleod, a spokeswoman for Lehman, declined to
comment on the ruling.  The main case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-
13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The lawsuit is Lehman v. Barclays, 09-01731, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Kolon Loses $920 Million to DuPont in Trial Over Kevlar  Kolon Industries Inc. (120110)  lost a $919.9 million jury verdict to
DuPont Co. over the theft of trade secrets about the manufacture
of Kevlar, an anti-ballistic fiber used in police and military
gear.  Jurors in federal court in  Richmond , Virginia, deliberated
about 10 hours over two days before finding Gyeonggi, South
Korea-based Kolon and its U.S. unit wrongfully obtained DuPont’s
proprietary information about Kevlar by hiring some of the
company’s former engineers and marketers. The award yesterday is
the third-largest jury verdict this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  DuPont, based in Wilmington, Delaware, is spending more
than $500 million to boost  Kevlar  production and meet rising
demand for armor and lightweight materials that reduce energy
use. Kevlar and  Nomex , a related fiber used in firefighting
gear, accounted for about $1.4 billion of DuPont’s $31.5 billion
in sales last year.  The “jury decision is an enormous victory for global
intellectual property protection,” Thomas L. Sager, DuPont’s
general counsel, said in a statement. “It also sends a message
to potential thieves of intellectual property that DuPont will
pursue all legal remedies to protect our significant investment
in research and development.”  Kolon said it disagrees with the verdict and will appeal.  The “verdict is the result of a multiyear campaign by
DuPont aimed at forcing Kolon out of the aramid fiber market,”
Kolon said in a statement e-mailed by Dan Tudesco of Brodeur
Partners, a public relations agency. “Kolon had no need for and
did not solicit any trade secrets or proprietary information of
DuPont, and had no reason to believe that the consultants it
engaged were providing such information. Indeed, many of the
‘secrets’ alleged in this case are public knowledge.”  Kolon said it will continue to pursue an antitrust case
against DuPont, which is scheduled for a March trial. DuPont
will file motions later this year to have the case dismissed,
Sager said in a telephone interview.  The case is E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. v. Kolon
Industries Inc., 09-cv-58, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of Virginia (Richmond).  For more, click here.  Ex-SAP Unit Pleads Guilty to Illegal Oracle Downloads  SAP AG (SAP) ’s defunct TomorrowNow software-maintenance unit
pleaded guilty to charges related to unauthorized downloading of
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  software and agreed to pay a $20 million penalty.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton accepted the plea by
the closed SAP unit yesterday in Oakland, California.
TomorrowNow was charged on Sept. 8 with 11 counts of
unauthorized computer access and one count of criminal copyright
infringement.  “No other SAP entity, including SAP AG or SAP America,
will face charges arising out of the office’s investigation,”
James Dever, an SAP spokesman, said of the Justice Department
probe in an e-mailed statement. The parent company is paying the
fine, he said.  SAP, the world’s largest maker of business software, was
sued by Oracle, its biggest competitor, in 2007 over the
downloads. Waldorff, Germany-based SAP shut the Bryan, Texas-
based unit in 2008 and didn’t contest at trial that it was
liable for infringement by TomorrowNow, which offered software
upgrades and fixes to customers who used products made by
companies acquired by Oracle.  Oracle claimed at trial that SAP was trying to steal its
customers and avoid paying a license fee for the software.
Oracle’s expert testified that SAP was liable for as much as
$1.7 billion in damages.  SAP said at trial that TomorrowNow never turned a profit
and had just tens of millions of dollars in revenue. Oracle lost
at most $19.3 million in profit from TomorrowNow’s actions, Greg
Lanier, an attorney for SAP, said after the hearing.  “Oracle has spent the last four years uncovering SAP’s
massive copyright theft and SAP finally pleaded guilty in
federal court to criminal charges for its illegal scheme,” said
Deborah Hellinger, an Oracle spokeswoman, in an e-mail. She
declined to comment on the fine.  The criminal case is U.S. v. TomorrowNow Inc., 11-00642,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For more, click here.  Berkshire Agrees to Settle Australia Suit Over Chopper Crash  Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  agreed to settle
Australian insurance claims stemming from a 2005 crash by a
Royal Australian Navy helicopter in Indonesia in which nine
people were killed.  The Australian government and the Defence Force sued
Berkshire and other insurers in December for refusing to pay
A$19.8 million ($20.5 million) in claims the government and the
defense department incurred in compensating families of the
victims and in the legal costs of a Navy Board inquiry.  The government and the insurers reached a settlement in
mediation last month, Shamus Toomey, the government’s lawyer,
told Federal Court Justice Geoffrey Flick at a hearing in Sydney
yesterday. Terms of the settlement are confidential, Toomey said
after the hearing.  Berkshire was a primary insurer, responsible for 29.75
percent of any payouts, according to court documents. Great
Lakes Re (UK), a unit of Muenchener Rueckversicherungs AG, and
Converium Insurance UK Ltd., a unit of SCOR Holding Switzerland
AG, each covered 27.25 percent of the policy. The rest of the
coverage was shared by 21 other insurers.  The Australian Navy Sea King helicopter Shark 02 crashed
April 2, 2005, on the island of Nias while transporting a
medical team on a rescue mission to help civilians affected by a
March 2005 earthquake.  The case is Commonwealth of Australia v. Berkshire Hathaway
International. NSD1715/2010. Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Hoboken Hospital Lawyer Quit Rather Than Participate in Fraud  The former attorney for Hudson Healthcare Inc., the
nonprofit operator of  Hoboken University Medical Center  in New
Jersey, said he quit rather than take part in an attempted fraud
by the Hoboken Municipal Hospital Authority.  “I will not participate in the fraud I believe your team
of lawyers is attempting to perpetuate in the bankruptcy
court,” Donald Scarinci said to Hudson Healthcare attorney
Joseph DiPasquale, in an e-mail filed with court papers on Sept.
12. “As everyone knows, I resigned from HHI precisely because I
could not and would not be a part of any of this.”  Scarinci, a partner at Scarinci & Hollenbeck, was general
counsel for Hudson Healthcare until mid-July, when he resigned.
Hudson Healthcare filed for Chapter 11 protection Aug. 1 in
Newark, New Jersey, while the hospital is being sold.  “I was a first hand witness to a pattern of conduct by
HMHA members to intimidate, threaten, control, abuse, and
attempt to force” the chief executive officer and other members
of the Hudson Healthcare board to “take actions adverse to its
charter and otherwise violate the laws of the State of New
Jersey,” Scarinci said in court papers.  The hospital is owned and operated by Hudson Healthcare, an
authority established by the city of Hoboken when it took over
the facility in early 2007.  The case is Hudson Healthcare Inc., 11-33014, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 