-- 
Sanofi’s Genzyme Sees Limited Cerezyme Supplies Through January

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-09-15T21:27:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/sanofi-s-genzyme-sees-limited-cerezyme-supplies-through-january.html
Sanofi’s Genzyme unit, acquired in
February for $20.1 billion, will delay shipments from October
through January of its top-selling drug, Cerezyme for Gaucher
disease, the company said.  Patients that typically receive a dose of the medicine
twice a month will move to once-monthly dosing while Genzyme
bolsters supplies, Lori Gorski, a spokeswoman for the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based unit, said today in a telephone interview.
The National Gaucher Foundation published a  letter  dated Sept.
13 from Genzyme on its website announcing the delays.  A 2009 virus contamination at Genzyme’s manufacturing plant
in Allston, Massachusetts, led to shortages of Cerezyme and
Fabrazyme that reduced revenue and drove the biotechnology
company’s shares down. U.S. regulators imposed a remediation
plan to address the manufacturing defects, which led to changes
in some processes at the plant, Gorski said.  “We’re operating without inventory, so any change in
manufacturing plans would have an impact on our supply plans,”
Gorski said. Genzyme saw reduced output at the beginning of this
year because of normal “variabilities in biological
manufacturing,” she said.  The company expects to have U.S. regulatory approval to
start shipping Fabrazyme, its Fabry disease medicine, from a
plant in Framingham,  Massachusetts , in the first quarter of next
year, Gorski said. That will improve Cerezyme production at the
Allston facility, she said.  Sanofi rose 78 cents, or 1.7 percent, to 48.12 euros at
5:35 p.m. in Paris trading. Shares of the French company are
little changed this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  