-- 
Libya Rebels Fight for Sirte as Cameron, Sarkozy Pledge Aid to New Rulers

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-09-16T10:48:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/sarkozy-cameron-visit-libya-as-government-seeks-to-consolidate-position.html
Opponents of Muammar Qaddafi
battled for control of Sirte, his birthplace, as the leaders of
the U.K. and  France  pledged aid to Libya’s new rulers during a
visit to Tripoli.  The Misrata Military Council said yesterday that its
fighters took control of the entrances to Sirte and began
searching for officials loyal to Qaddafi. They later seized the
city’s airport,  Al Jazeera  television reported today.  The council’s forces also entered Bani Walid today, Al
Jazeera said. Sirte and Bani Walid are among the last holdout
cities in Libya, where Qaddafi loyalists have been resisting
calls for a peaceful handover of control.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  became the first foreign leaders to visit
Tripoli since helping the rebel forces of the National
Transitional Council oust Qaddafi last month. Turkish Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip arrived in the capital today as part of a
tour of the Arab world.  Cameron and Sarkozy said they would push at the United
Nations Security Council today for the adoption of a resolution
releasing more Libyan assets frozen under sanctions against
Qaddafi.  “This is not finished, this is not done, this is not over;
there are still parts of  Libya  under Qaddafi’s control,”
Cameron told a joint news conference in Tripoli yesterday. “We
will help you to find Qaddafi and bring him to justice.”  Leaders Cheered  Cameron and Sarkozy were cheered as they visited a Tripoli
hospital in a visit televised by international broadcasters.
They later addressed a crowd on Freedom Square in Benghazi,
Libya’s second city and the initial center of the rebel
movement. Britain is releasing 600 million pounds ($950 million)
of Libyan assets, Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, told
reporters in  London .  The Misrata council said earlier yesterday that Qaddafi
loyalists were surrounded in an insurance building in central
Sirte. Al Jazeera said the council’s forces withdrew after a day
of fighting to prepare for an invasion of the city later today.  Elements of Qaddafi’s 32nd Brigade -- the special forces
unit commanded by his son Khamis and tasked in the past with
protecting the former Libyan dictator -- were trapped in
beachfront villas, the council said.  The Misrata council said the Sirte attack was carried out
with 900 “technicals,” the  pickup trucks  carrying machine guns
or rocket launchers.  Airstrikes  Sarkozy said airstrikes against pro-Qaddafi forces “will
continue as long as Libyan leaders think Libyan people are in
danger.”  “People have constantly underrated and underestimated the
National Transitional Council; people said they couldn’t unite
Libya, they were too tribal,” Cameron said, speaking alongside
NTC Chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil and Prime Minister Mahmoud Jibril. “It has been an impressive transformation. The roads
are full, your water is flowing and your hospitals are
working.”  The new leaders of Libya are seeking to build a country
where there is a “rotation of power and the abandoning of
terrorism,” Abdel Jalil said. “We aspire for freedom to
prevail over all Libyan soil and for the arrest of  Muammar
Qaddafi  alive, and his trial.”  ‘No Kickbacks’  Asked whether their intervention had been influenced by a
desire to get at Libya’s oil wealth, Sarkozy said, “There were
no kickbacks, no hidden agreements to access Libya’s resources.
We did what we thought was fair.”  The North African country will resume crude exports within
three or four days, the nation’s representative to a meeting of
Arab central bank governors in Doha said yesterday. Output will
be about 700,000 barrels a day by the end of this year and an
estimated 1.6 million barrels a day by the end of 2012, Abdulla
Saudi told reporters in the Qatari capital.  The U.K. has put forward a draft resolution to the UN
Security Council to end an asset freeze on the Libyan National
Oil Corp. and Zueitina Oil Co., according to a Western diplomat
who spoke on condition of not being identified. The 15-member
body may vote on the measure today.  The resolution also would authorize the  Central Bank  of
Libya, the Libyan Foreign Bank, the  Libyan Investment Authority 
and the Libyan Africa Investment Portfolio to use their assets
for specified purposes. Those include purchases of humanitarian
aid; fuel, electricity and water for civilian use; and the
strengthening of Libya’s government and economy.  Eighteen of 19 Libyan ports are now “operational,”
according to a notice to the UN’s shipping agency from the NTC
published on the website of  Inchcape Shipping Services 
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Stephen  in Misrata at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 