-- 
Satellite CEOs Stuck With Local Partnerships as Politics Slows Purchases

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-09-16T08:19:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/satellite-ceos-stuck-with-partnerships-as-politics-slow-m-a.html
Satellite operators  SES SA (SESG)  and
Telesat Holdings Inc., trying to defend some of the technology
industry’s highest profit margins, may need to stick to
partnerships to expand in fast-growing emerging markets as
acquisitions are often blocked by politics.  “For emerging-market countries, owning a satellite
operator is often an issue of ambition and prestige,” Telesat
Chief Executive Officer Daniel Goldberg said in an interview at
an industry conference in Paris. “These, coupled with security
and regulatory issues, are an impediment and a barrier to
consolidation.”  SES, Telesat,  Eutelsat Communications (ETL)  SA and closely-held
 Intelsat SA , the biggest operators, are scouring new markets as
a glut of satellite launches adds record capacity in the next
years. With acquisitions difficult, partnerships and the sharing
of satellites are the best ways to get access, says Liberum
Capital analyst  Mark James .  “We may see more partnerships in the future as it gives
them access to orbital positions they otherwise can’t access,
together with local relationships,” James said. “For the local
providers, it gives them access to the scale that SES, Eutelsat
and others bring.”  Emerging markets accounted for 90 percent of the net
increase in capacity used in the past two years as more and more
consumers in countries such as Brazil and  India  gained access to
TV and Web services, Euroconsult said. Smaller regional
operators also captured more than 60 percent of global satellite
revenue growth last year, compared with 40 percent in 2007.  ‘Very Aggressive’  While partnerships may be needed, they won’t be easy to
achieve for the established western rivals as the economic boom
bolsters confidence among local operators, according to
Euroconsult CEO  Pacome Revillon .  Companies such as  Malaysia ’s Measat Global Bhd and Egyptian
Satellites, also known as  Nilesat , are “very aggressive in
competing with global players and have very ambitious expansion
plans,” Revillon said in an interview.  SES, Telesat, Eutelsat and Intelsat had a combined market
share of about 66 percent of the fixed-satellite service market
in 2010, according to Euroconsult. The rest of the market is
fragmented and  Asia  is especially “crowded” with about 20
active operators, the researcher said.  Measat, controlled by Malaysian billionaire T. Ananda Krishnan, has seen sales rise from $35 million in 2005 to almost
$100 million this year and “we are looking at ways to continue
this growth over the next five years,” CEO Paul Brown-Kenyon
said in an interview. He might cooperate with one of the top
global operators or team up with a regional company to add
capacity, he said.  Profit Margins  “I don’t believe there is any one model for cooperation,”
Brown-Kenyon said. “We are considering a number of different
approaches, with internal projects and working with either
regional or global operators.”  Partnerships with emerging-market operators are important
for the big players as they’re going after growth and growth is
coming from emerging markets,” Sarah Simon, an analyst at
Berenberg Bank. Partnering will help “in maintaining above-
average revenue growth rates and contributing to their very high
margins.”  SES’s profit margin, based on earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, reached 74.7 percent in
2010, while Eutelsat had a margin of 79.3 percent in the 12
months through June. That compares with 32 percent for Vodafone
Group Plc, the world’s biggest mobile-phone operator, and 29.8
percent for Apple Inc., the world’s largest technology company,
according to Bloomberg data.  Safe Haven  The high profitability and stable business made satellite
operators safe investment targets as the sovereign debt crisis
battered  Europe  and global markets.  Eutelsat has risen 10 percent this year and SES has gained
0.5 percent, compared with a 15 percent drop in the Bloomberg
European Communications Index, which includes 50 companies
ranging from phone operators such as Telefonica SA to TV company
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  and network makers including
Ericsson AB.  Today, SES rose 0.2 percent to 17.91 euros in Paris while
Eutelsat gained 0.5 percent to 30.24 euros.  Sharing Satellites  SES, based in Luxembourg and the world’s largest publicly-
traded satellite operator, is currently doubling its headcount
in emerging markets to 120 people, CEO Romain Bausch said.  “Governments of some emerging markets often consider
satellites as a sovereign right and that’s why you have few M&A
deals and more partnerships,” Bausch in an interview. “So
we’re in discussion with some Asian operators for a
partnership.”  SES on Sept. 7 said it entered a partnership with Russian
satellite operator  Gazprom Space System  to provide additional
capacity to serve the Russian market.  Under a multi-year agreement, SES has relocated its Astra
1F satellite previously located at 51 degrees east to the
orbital location 55 degrees east. Gazprom Space System will use
16 transponders on the satellite to provide services for Western
Russia until its own Yamal-402 satellite, which is currently
under construction and scheduled for launch in November 2012,
becomes operational.  Eutelsat, based in Paris, has partnerships with Nilesat,
the  Russian Satellite Communications Company , or RSCC, and
Qatar’s  Supreme Council of Information and Communication
Technology . Eutelsat CEO Michel de Rosen said satellite
operators should be able to reach their growth targets in
emerging markets with the help of local partners as long as they
manage these arrangements carefully.  “The trend to form partnerships will continue as resources
are not infinite and a larger satellite shared between two
parties can in some cases be a better option than two smaller
ones,” de Rosen said in an interview. “But partnerships are
like marriage, they have some advantages but also the
complexities of sharing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  