-- 
Scene Last Night: Lithgow, Lucy de Kooning, $3 Billion at MoMA

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-09-15T14:04:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/scene-last-night-at-moma-lithgow-rosenquist-lucy-de-kooning-3-billion.html
John Lithgow  stood motionless in
front of a wall of Willem de Kooning’s paintings at the  Museum
of Modern Art  last night.  “I am thinking of which one I am going to steal,” said
the Tony award-winning actor, whose many credits include the
voice of Lord Farquaad in “Shrek” and the Trinity Killer Arthur
Mitchell on the “Dexter” television show.  Lithgow had two words to describe what he thought of “de
Kooning: A Retrospective,” a sprawling exhibition that brings
together about 200 works from public and private collections.  “Love it,” he said, moving off to examine ribbons of
color.  MoMA’s survey of the Abstract Expressionist’s career,
spanning the years 1916 to 1987, had patrons ladling out praise
for curator, John Elderfield, who spent six years putting it
together.  “To see all these paintings under one roof is
incredible,” said  John Berggruen , San Francisco-based art
dealer. “It’s a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.”  The opening party on a sticky night attracted hundreds of
guests, including actor  Owen Wilson ; artists Glenn Ligon, Dana Schutz and James Rosenquist; New York City Transportation
Commissioner Janette Sadik-Khan; art dealers Tony Shafrazi,
 David Zwirner  and Jay Gorney.  Big lenders to the show included  David Geffen ,  Steven A. Cohen  and  Henry Kravis . The bars in the cool lobby attracted
hordes of men in porkpie hats, bow-ties and plaid shirts and
women in low-cut dresses with large colorful tattoos.  Big Billions  MoMA’s entire sixth floor was taken over by the exhibition,
which runs Sept. 18 through Jan. 9, 2012. The appraised value of
the works added up to about $3 billion.  One showstopper was a wall of five big, iconic “Woman”
paintings from 1952-53, each of which could be worth $80 million
to $100 million, auction-house specialists said. Hanging side-
by-side, these violently painted figures resembled some
prehistoric monster-goddesses.  Another feat: a room full of rare “black” paintings from
1948-49, in which ghostly white lines intertwined on viscous
black backgrounds.  “Seeing it all at once is shocking,” said 16-year-old
Lucy de Kooning, the artist’s platinum-blonde granddaughter, who
grew up in a house on  Long Island , where his studio remains
intact (along with his paint-splattered shoes, motorized easels,
buckets of brushes and scores of canvases).  De Kooning moved to  East Hampton  in 1963 and lived there
until his death in 1997 at 92.  ‘Near the Water’  “He stayed Dutch as he became American,” said Elderfield,
whose black attire was interrupted by the deep-green dots of his
Issey Miyake tie. “That’s one of the reasons he moved to Long
Island: to be near the water.”  The curator helped identify body parts -- spread legs, an
arm and even a stiletto -- in some of the pictures.  “This is the heel, this is the toe,” Elderfield said,
pointing at a group of black-and-white brushstrokes on the
bottom of a 1977 painting. “He had this thing for high heels.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 