-- 
School Bonds Returns Beat Treasuries on Tuition, Fee Increase: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 
2011-09-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/school-bonds-buttressed-by-tuition-resist-budget-ax-muni-credit.html
Higher-education debt is
outperforming tax-exempt municipals because colleges and
universities are able to raise tuition and draw on endowments
even as states prepare to slash funding by $5 billion in 2012.  “This will easily stand as the biggest downturn in funding
for universities since the Great Depression,” said Michael
Tanner, chief academic officer of the  Association of Public and
Land-Grant Universities  in  Washington . “There has been a
sustained loss of money.”  Higher-education debt has produced a total return of 9.17
percent this year, 67 basis points above that for tax-exempt
municipal securities and 110 basis points above Treasuries,
according to Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch Municipal Master
Index, which includes price changes and interest income. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  The outperformance benefited  California  State University,
which funds the biggest U.S. public higher education system, as
it sold $430 million of revenue bonds yesterday at rates below
debt sold by the average school system. That compares with a
premium it paid above the benchmark on its last tax-exempt sale
in 2010. The university raised tuition 32 percent and cut costs
by $273 million last year, according to the offering document.  States recovering from an 18-month recession that ended
June 2009 may cut $5 billion from higher education for fiscal
2012, according to the Washington-based National Association of
State Budget Officers. They face a combined $103 billion of
budget shortfalls in fiscal 2012, according to the  Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities .  Other Resources  To make up for those cuts, colleges and universities can
increase tuition and fees, said Matt Dalton at Belle Haven
Investments Inc. who manages more than $800 million of municipal
bonds. Many private schools, including  Stanford University , also
benefit from income from endowments.  “They have other resources,” Dalton said. “The private
ones have the endowments and higher education can reach out to
fundraising efforts. You’re not going to get a fundraising
effort in Harrisburg,” he said, referring to  Pennsylvania ’s
capital and its payroll and debt-service cost challenges.  Harrisburg’s City Council Sept. 13 moved to avoid a default
by accepting a real-estate deal that provides cash for costs
including debt service.  Stanford University  in  Palo Alto , California, used $855
million from its endowment to cover operating costs last year,
representing 26 percent of its operating budget, according to
the institution’s most recent annual report.  Revenue Credit  “There are a lot of things they can do that can’t be done
at the city and county level,” Dalton said in a telephone
interview from  White Plains ,  New York .  Investors view higher-education bonds as a revenue credit
secured by tuition fees, with U.S. students and oversees
applicants continuing to pursue a college career, he said.  “The demand side is there whether it’s domestic or
foreign, and I don’t see that going away anytime soon,” Dalton
said.  Education debt trailed the overall municipal market the
past two years, after beating it from 2005 through 2008,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  The  California State University  deal priced with $22
million of debt maturing in 2021 yielding 2.82 percent, or 16
basis points below a 10-year index of AA education bonds, which
is two grades higher than the issuer’s A+ rating from  Standard &
Poor’s . That compares with an 11 basis point premium above the
index it paid on the 10-year portion of $147 million of revenue
bonds sold March 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  S&P changed the university system’s outlook Sept. 9 to
positive from stable.  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  THE DORMITORY AUTHORITY OF THE STATE OF  NEW YORK , which
issues debt on behalf of higher education facilities, hospitals,
and not-for-profit institutions, will sell $402 million of
revenue bonds as soon as today. Proceeds will help finance
capital projects at North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health Care
System facilities and refund prior debt. The bonds are rated A3,
Moody’s Investors Service’s fourth-lowest grade. Citigroup will
lead a syndicate of banks. (Updated Sept. 15)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net 
Freeman Klopott in New York at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  