-- 
The Hidden Meaning Behind Buffett’s Hiring: Alice Schroeder

-- B y   A l i c e   S c h r o e d e r
-- 
2011-09-15T18:11:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/schroeder-the-hidden-meaning-behind-buffett-s-hiring.html
Sometimes the cutesiness of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is part of its endearing charm.
Sometimes it is a minor quirk to be brushed aside. Occasionally,
it can mislead, as happened this week when  Warren Buffett ’s
favorite scribe, Carol J. Loomis of Fortune magazine, began her
insider’s report on the hiring of 50-year-old Ted Weschler, the
founder of Peninsula Capital Advisors LLC, as a Berkshire
investment manager. She  wrote : “It is surely unprecedented for
a person to spend $5,252,722 to get a job, but in a funny way,
that is precisely what Ted Weschler, of Charlottesville,
Virginia, did.”  At first blush, the Fortune description of the Weschler
hiring wasn’t at all inspiring: A “cute meet” in which
Weschler twice spent millions to win a charity auction for a
meal with Buffett. At 81, the Berkshire chairman and chief
executive officer is beginning to delegate his responsibilities
for investing the company’s $100 billion portfolio to as many as
three money managers. Those meetings led directly to Buffett
offering Weschler one of the most prestigious jobs in asset
management. “I should have bid higher,” a few people joked at
a meeting of asset managers that I attended this week.  Weschler (pronounced WESH-ler) will be winding down
Peninsula and joining Berkshire early in 2012 as the second
member of a team launched last October, when the Omaha,
Nebraska-based company announced the hiring of Todd Combs of
Castle Point Capital Management LLC.  Understated Qualifications  It’s not the first time that Buffett has hired someone who
happened to be smart (or aggressive) enough to seek him out. He
did it with Combs as well. This time, though, the manner of
meeting was incidental. And Berkshire wound up with someone
whose qualifications, if anything, have been understated.  Weschler may be the most important hire Buffett has made in
decades. He isn’t just an investor, though his $2 billion
portfolio returned 1,236 percent to Peninsula investors over 11
years. “He plays all the instruments in the orchestra,” says
Steve Blaine, who served on the board of  Virginia  National Bank
with Weschler.  He does, in fact, cover all the bases: finding
acquisitions, financing them, overseeing management of acquired
companies, designing their compensation, allocating capital of
the entity that owns the businesses, and understanding lending
and credit markets from a bank’s perspective. He also knows how
to finance acquisitions in special situations such as
bankruptcies; manage long-tailed risks like his former employer
W.R. Grace & Co.’s asbestos liability; and control equity-
portfolio risk in a volatile market using positioning,
derivatives and moderate leverage.  ‘Special Sauce’  Although Weschler officially left private equity 11 years
ago, he continues to invest in numerous businesses personally,
and has served on the boards of two regional banks. This breadth
of experience enables him to see, for example, how  cash-flow ,
inventory and capital-expenditure trends will affect equity
holdings in the funds he manages.  The same kind of information flow is critical to Buffett’s
“special sauce,” which has made his investing results so hard
to copy. In fact, Weschler’s background and skills resemble
Buffett’s pretty broadly, enough so that it begs the question of
whether his role will be limited to investing.  Weschler is known for being self-effacing and private. Even
some people close to him in the Charlottesville business
community weren’t aware that he had won the auctions to meet
Buffett. He is an important and generous philanthropist in the
local community, but often gives anonymously. (People associated
with two beneficiaries begged me to keep the names of the
recipients out of this column.)  Bid to Meet  He bid on the auction simply because he wanted to meet
Buffett, whose career he has studied for years. When they met,
their conversation went on at such length -- given the things
they have in common -- and in such an unexpected direction that
Buffett decided to pursue hiring Weschler. In an unprecedented
act of consultation that is a much-needed step forward in
Berkshire’s governance process, Buffett also introduced Weschler
to members of his family and Berkshire’s board before making the
announcement.  Involvement by the board is a very welcome sign of
progress. The  press release  announcing Weschler’s new role
contained some other subtle signs that changes at Berkshire may
be forthcoming. Buffett himself wasn’t quoted. The statement
said he will continue to manage most of Berkshire’s $100 billion
of funds “until his retirement.”  Subtle Cues  This is the first time, as far as I can tell, that it has
ever been confirmed that Buffett would retire, instead of trying
to outwork Rose Blumkin, who ran Berkshire’s Nebraska Furniture
Mart until age 103.  The press release contains another tantalizing hint. Twice,
it refers to the period “after Mr. Buffett no longer serves as
CEO.” These cues are subtle -- way too subtle to mean anything
definitive. But it makes me wonder whether, at some point,
Buffett is going to appoint a CEO while retaining the
nonexecutive-chairman role.  That would be a move the business world has definitely not
been expecting. It’s also one that may make sense, for Buffett
as well as Berkshire. He would remain the company’s most
valuable asset -- making the phone calls that get those
lucrative deals done, playing the world’s economic statesman,
and flattering business owners into selling their companies to
Berkshire. Meanwhile, Weschler and Combs would have the primary
responsibility for investing Berkshire’s $10 billion a year of
cash flow and constantly compounding pool of assets -- in the
most turbulent market since the 1930s.  Impeccable Timing  I might be wrong about the nonexecutive-chairman role. What
is more important is Buffett’s impeccable sense of timing.
Throughout his career, he has had an almost uncanny way of
anticipating what the market will do next. He closed his
investment partnership in 1970 before stocks were laid to waste,
shorted stocks at times when the market overheated, diversified
into bonds when the Internet bubble was peaking, and in one form
or another, has called every market crash that took place during
his career.  So it’s significant that Buffett has begun the transition
to a new investing team, whether he remains CEO in the years
ahead or not. Buffett is taking his hands off the reins of the
portfolio. Hiring a manager of Weschler’s caliber is an
important signal. The transfer of power won’t happen overnight,
but its magnitude is something to ponder for those who are
interested in the markets. Meanwhile, we get to watch a new
story, featuring new players, unfolding at Berkshire Hathaway.  ( Alice Schroeder , the author of “The Snowball: Warren
Buffett and the Business of Life” and formerly a top-ranked
insurance analyst on  Wall Street , is a Bloomberg View columnist.
She owns Berkshire Hathaway stock. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Alice Schroeder at  aliceschroeder@ymail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  