-- 
Small Investors May Get More Sway on Corporate Boards

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-15T21:09:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/sec-legal-defeat-leaves-investors-a-longer-path-to-proxy-access.html
U.S. shareholders reeling from last
month’s rejection of a measure that would have let them put
board candidates on corporate ballots may find solace in a
measure left standing after the federal court’s decision.  A Securities and Exchange Commission rule taking effect in
the wake of that legal challenge lets any investor who has held
at least $2,000 of stock for a year submit a proposal for how a
firm should open board elections to shareholder nominees. That
measure, delayed by the court fight, may provide a two-step path
to so-called proxy access.  “We’re entering a new territory here, so we’re going to
have a period of sort of feeling this out,” said Jeff Morgan,
president and chief executive officer of the National Investor
Relations Institute in Vienna, Virginia. “The current wisdom is
you’re going to see a lot of these pop up.”  U.S. lawmakers, responding to complaints that corporate
risk-taking and pay incentives helped spark the 2008 credit
crisis, empowered the SEC to adopt a rule requiring all publicly
traded companies to include shareholder nominees on proxy
ballots. On July 22, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  struck down the
rule, agreeing with business groups that said the SEC didn’t
adequately consider the impact on companies. The ruling didn’t
affect the separate rule allowing investor proposals.  The SEC, which declined to appeal the court’s ruling,
issued a notice today that the remaining rule will be effective
as soon as it’s published in the Federal Register. Advisers to
companies and shareholder groups say this measure’s impact is
likely to be felt during next year’s corporate proxy season.  ‘A Lot More’  “You’ll see proxy access proposals at some of the big
companies in the spring,” said John T. Haggerty, a securities
lawyer at Goodwin Procter LLP in  Boston . “If they do pass,
you’re going to see a lot more people putting in proposals.”  Companies are trying to determine whether they should wait
for shareholder proposals or offer their own ideas, said Morgan,
whose group represents 3,500 publicly traded firms.  The rule will be a new tool for activists that may enable
shareholder groups to use the threat of proposals to pressure
boards in unrelated arguments, he said.  At the same time, pension funds and other institutional
investors haven’t given up hope that the SEC will go back and
rewrite its rule to require universal proxy access.  “Now is not the time to give up,” investors including the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  said in a
statement this week. “We strongly urge the SEC to issue new
rules on full proxy access and continue its commitment to
providing long-term shareowners with the right to have a say in
who runs the companies they own.”  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in a Sept. 6 statement that
she directed her staff to “continue reviewing” the court
decision. A court filing yesterday officially closed the case,
allowing the remaining rule to move forward.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 