-- 
SEC’s Schapiro Faces Republicans Amid Probes of Agency Lapses

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-09-15T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/sec-s-schapiro-faces-republicans-amid-probes-of-agency-lapses.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro has defended her agency for
more than two years from attacks by lawmakers. Her job is
getting harder as the 2012 election campaign heats up.  Schapiro is scheduled to testify twice before Congress in
the next two weeks as  House Republicans  sharpen their assault on
President Barack Obama’s economic plan, arguing that excessive
regulation is stifling job growth. A hearing today will consider
plans to shutter some SEC offices and set new standards for
evaluating the costs and benefits of the agency’s rules.  The scrutiny is being fueled by a wave of investigative
reports from SEC Inspector General H. David Kotz, who in May
detailed the agency’s bungling of a $557 million lease. Kotz is
now probing a possible conflict of interest involving the
agency’s former chief lawyer and his family’s investment with
 Bernard Madoff , as well as unrelated allegations that SEC
officials improperly destroyed some documents.  “It’s not a question of who’s holding a hearing, but how
many,” said Sam Geduldig, of Clark Lytle & Geduldig, a
Republican lobbying firm.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act required the SEC to write dozens of
new rules for  Wall Street  and authorized a doubling of its
budget over five years. Congressional appropriators rejected the
increases, and Republicans have sought to keep the SEC at
current spending levels next year while criticizing the reach of
the new regulations.  The Democrat-controlled Senate and the Obama administration
support budget increases, limiting the Republicans’ ability to
trim spending. The SEC’s budget is covered by industry fees,
although Congress still must approve each year’s spending.  Structural ‘Flaws’  Asked to comment on the upcoming hearings and discussions,
 John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in a statement that “we
look forward to working with Congress” on the SEC’s mission.  Representative  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama Republican who
leads the House Financial Services Committee which will hold
today’s hearing, said last month that the SEC “is structurally
flawed and suffers from operational inefficiencies and
organizational incoherence.”  Of Kotz’s investigations, Republican lawmakers have focused
on the one involving former SEC general counsel  David Becker .
The SEC has acknowledged that Becker worked on a policy related
to the Madoff fraud after he inherited profits from his parents’
investment with the convicted money manager. Becker and his
brothers are being sued by the court-appointed trustee in the
Madoff bankruptcy case to recover $1.5 million in what he termed
fictitious profits.  Grassley Demands  Becker, who resigned from the SEC in February, advocated
that Madoff victims be compensated for losses from an SEC-
overseen insurance fund using a formula that adjusted for
inflation. The argument, which ultimately was not adopted, could
have made it less likely that the trustee would seek to reclaim
profits from Becker.  While Becker has said he had raised the issue with the
SEC’s ethics officer and was told his inheritance wasn’t a
conflict, Iowa Republican Senator Charles Grassley called the
issue “troubling” and demanded that the SEC bolster its
policies about conflicts of interest.  Schapiro told a House panel earlier this year that she
wished Becker had recused himself. In a letter to lawmakers,
Becker said he is “confident that any fair review of my
actions” will show that the work was in the best interests of
investors and the SEC.  Joint Hearing  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican who is
chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, and
Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican who heads a
Financial Services subcommittee on investigations, have called a
joint hearing for Sept. 23 to coincide with the expected release
of Kotz’s report.  Kotz has asked current and former SEC officials if they
were “concerned” that Becker worked on Madoff-related policy
at the commission without disclosing his potential conflict to
anyone but Schapiro and the ethics attorney who worked for him,
according to two people briefed on the investigation. They spoke
on condition of anonymity because the matter isn’t public.  The lawmakers, according to three people who were
interviewed by congressional investigators, are particularly
interested in the SEC’s internal deliberations over designating
an official to testify at a December 2009 Financial Services
hearing on compensating Madoff victims. Becker, the people said,
was slated to testify but decided he couldn’t do it unless he
disclosed his parent’s Madoff investment. In the end, the agency
sent another lawyer.  ‘Witch Trial’  Lawmakers want to know if there was a deliberate attempt to
keep the potential conflict hidden from Congress and the other
SEC commissioners, the people said.  Former SEC officials said the inspector general reports are
being used for political rather than policy purposes.  “This appears to be a public witch trial by politicians
and the SEC’s inspector general rather than a genuine effort to
improve the agency and its protection of investors,” said  Lynn Turner , a former SEC chief accountant.  Last month, Bachus, the Financial Services chairman,
proposed a bill to restructure the SEC, shuttering some offices
and restricting spending, based on recommendations from Kotz,
the Government Accountability Office and Boston Consulting Group
Inc.  Kotz said in a statement yesterday that he wasn’t motivated
by politics and that he “never advocated cutting the SEC’s
budget and I wouldn’t be happy for my reports to be used as a
reason to do this.”  ‘Very Concerned’  In prepared testimony for today’s hearing, Schapiro said
she “would be very concerned about the overarching loss of the
agency’s flexibility in the future to change with our dynamic
capital markets if its structure is rigidly established by
statute.” Schapiro also pointed to a Boston Consulting Group
analysis that determined the SEC is hundreds of employees short
of what it needs to manage its duties.  A separate bill has been proposed that would detail
specific standards for the SEC’s cost-benefit analysis of rules
and orders.  In prepared remarks, Schapiro said the bill “would be more
extensive and more onerous than the requirements placed on other
agencies.”  Lobbyists for business groups have repeatedly criticized
the agency for failing to measure the costs and difficulty of
complying with regulations, and industry has challenged SEC
rules in court on those grounds. Earlier this year, the SEC
dropped a rule making it easier for shareholders to nominate
board candidates after a U.S. court found the agency didn’t
adequately examine the burden on the firms.  Document Destruction  The agency has also come under fire recently over
allegations that SEC enforcement attorneys illegally destroyed
documents related to preliminary investigations for more than a
decade. In a letter yesterday, enforcement director  Robert Khuzami  said the agency kept electronic records of all the
inquiries and that discarding materials such as news articles
and public filings had not harmed any current or future
investigations.  Harvey Goldschmid , a former Democratic SEC commissioner who
is a professor at Columbia University Law School, said
Republicans are unfairly using the probes as an excuse to cut
the SEC’s budget.  “ Mary Schapiro  and the SEC deserve much better than
that,” Goldschmid said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt  in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 