-- 
Senate Averts FAA Furloughs by Passing Transportation Extensions

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 
2011-09-15T22:33:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/senators-reach-verbal-deal-on-faa-highway-funding-reid-says.html
The Senate today passed legislation
to avert a second partial shutdown of the  Federal Aviation
Administration , extending the agency’s funding for four months
and highway and transit programs for six months.  Senators approved the legislation 92 to 6 after their
leaders made a deal with Senator  Tom Coburn . The  Oklahoma 
Republican had demanded the bill, which the House approved Sept.
13, include a provision to let states opt out of a requirement
to use some highway grant money for bike paths and other so-
called enhancements.  Without a deal, about 4,000 FAA employees would have been
furloughed starting Sept. 17 and work would have stopped on
airport projects around the country. President  Barack Obama  must
sign the legislation for it to take effect.  Coburn’s language will be added to separate legislation to
reauthorize highway and transit programs for two years,  John
Hart , his spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Senator  Barbara Boxer , the California Democrat who is
chairman of the Environment and Public Works Committee, and
Senator  James Inhofe  of Oklahoma, the panel’s top Republican,
promised that to Coburn so he would drop his opposition to the
extension bill, Hart said.  “I am pleased that the Senate has reached a deal to pass
an extension of our FAA and surface transportation programs,
which will keep hundreds of construction projects going and
thousands of workers on the job nationwide,” Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood said in a statement.  Shutdown Effect  The FAA had to halt some operations, excluding air-traffic
control, and stop collecting aviation taxes for 16 days after
the House and Senate deadlocked on an extension of agency
funding in July in a dispute over subsidies on flights to rural
airports.  Most of the largest U.S. airlines raised their base fares
by the amount of taxes they didn’t have to collect, with the six
largest gaining at least $291 million in added revenue,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government.  “Another shutdown wouldn’t have helped anyone but the
airlines,” Greg Principato, president of the Airports Council
International-North America, a Washington-based trade group,
said in an e-mailed statement.  The bill would continue funding for the FAA and for surface
transportation programs, which are funded through Sept. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  