-- 
Senate Committee Approves $513 Billion Defense Bill for 2012

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-09-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/senate-panel-approves-513-billion-defense-plan-26-billion-below-request.html
The Senate Appropriations Committee
approved a $513 billion defense spending bill for next year that
would cancel the Army-Marine Corp Joint Light Tactical Vehicle
program and a  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  satellite project.  The annual spending measure supports the  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  F-35, trimming $695 million from the $9.7 billion request.
Still, the panel warned the program’s future “could be in
jeopardy” if costs aren’t brought under control. The panel
voted to maintain annual production at 35 aircraft through 2013
instead of increasing to 42 aircraft.  The overall $513 billion bill for the fiscal year beginning
Oct. 1 essentially freezes military spending at this year’s
level.  Sent to the full Senate by voice vote yesterday, the bill
fully funds weapons programs including Northrop Grumman’s Global
Hawk drone and  Boeing Co. (BA)  Chinook and Apache helicopters.  The bill also covers the Navy’s shipbuilding program, and
the Senate panel added $1 billion to the Defense Health
Program’s $33.8 billion request. It endorsed a pending Bell
Helicopter Textron-Boeing multi-year V-22 Osprey contract,
saying it would save $420 million over annual purchases.  The bill reduces the Pentagon’s $111 billion procurement
request by $9 billion, operations and maintenance by $8.2
billion and its research request by $4.2 billion.  Radio, Missiles  Among cutbacks, the panel reduced funding for Boeing’s
joint radio programs and for Lockheed Martin’s Thaad missiles.
The $833 million missile request was reduced by $162 million
because the amount “exceeds” Lockheed’s production capacity,
the committee said.  The panel said it is terminating the Northrop Grumman-lead
Defense Weather Satellite Systems, which the  Air Force  planned
to begin in 2018, citing a “difficult and confusing set of
management issues” and “uncertainty in cost estimates.”  “Each of these areas of risk indicate the system is not on
a sound acquisition footing despite” a program restructure 18
months ago, the committee report says. The panel provided a $150
million termination fee to Northrop to end its current contract.
The Air Force in May  authorized  Northrop to start working on the
system.  The panel’s biggest termination was the estimated $54
billion Army and Marine Corp Joint Light Tactical Vehicle.  The Pentagon had requested $243 million to continue
engineering and manufacturing development -- a phase that has
doubled to 48 months from 24 months and with costs projected to
more than double to $669 million, it said. The first vehicles
also wouldn’t appear until 2017, the panel said.  Development Contracts  Three companies in 2008 won technology development
contracts for the program: General Tactical Vehicles, a joint
venture of General Dynamics Land Systems, part of  Falls Church ,
Virginia-based  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , and  South Bend , Indiana-
based AM General LLC; BAE Systems Land & Armaments, part of
London-based  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ; and Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed Martin.  The program “which was initially launched as a model for a
revised acquisition approach has already had significant changes
in requirements and cost growth,” the panel said.  “The inability to keep program requirements stable has
resulted in significant cost growth early and projected
acquisition costs will make the program unaffordable in this
challenging economic environment,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  