-- 
Sino-Forest Short Seller Carson Block Says China Consumption ‘Overblown’

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   F r o s t
-- 
2011-09-16T02:30:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/short-seller-muddy-waters-block-says-chinese-consumer-demand-overstated.html
Carson Block, the short seller who
runs research firm  Muddy Waters  LLC, said U.S. investors are too
eager to put their money into  China  where consumer demand is
overstated.  “The idea of the Chinese consumer has always been somewhat
overblown,” Block said yesterday on a panel at a Bloomberg Link
Conference in New York. “Part of the reason for that is that
you have luxury-goods manufacturers such as Louis Vuitton that
report outstanding sales in China.” Muddy Waters research
alleging  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  had overstated timber holdings
prompted a 67 percent slump in the company’s shares. Sino-Forest
has denied the allegations.  Businesses are turning to China to bolster sales as rising
unemployment and government indebtedness damp confidence in
developed nations. Foreign direct investment in China climbed
11.1 percent in August from a year earlier, a government report
showed yesterday, as the nation’s growth encourages companies
from Volkswagen AG to Caterpillar Inc. to expand.  Inflows of overseas cash are inhibiting Premier Wen Jiabao’s campaign to control inflation, while higher  interest
rates  and tighter lending limits are undermining attempts to
make consumers a bigger driver of the world’s second-largest
economy. Chinese government data last week showed retail sales
growth slowed to 17 percent in August, less than the average of
the past five years.  Shiny Buildings  Analysts at  Capital Economics , a London-based research
group, estimate that private consumption in China may have
fallen to 34 percent of gross domestic product last year, the
lowest level since the country began opening its economy to
market mechanisms more than three decades ago. Just 10 years
ago, the share was 46 percent, Capital Economics calculates.  “We see the tall, shiny buildings in Shanghai or Beijing
and we meet with the Chinese who have graduated from Harvard,
who have somewhat been inculcated with western values, and we
mistakenly extrapolate this to the large portion of the
economy,” Block said.  Sales of luxury goods in the world’s most populous nation
are projected to surge eightfold to 74 billion euros ($103
billion) in the 10 years to 2020, according to Credit Agricole
SA’s CLSA  Asia  Pacific Markets unit.  Asia accounted for 28 percent of  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC) ’s revenue in the six months through June, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Paris-based maker of Celine
handbags and TAG Heuer watches reported a 25 percent increase in
first-half profit on July 26.  Shares of Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based Sino-
Forest have slumped 67 percent in Toronto since Muddy Waters
issued research questioning the company’s timber holdings on
June 2.  Canada ’s main securities watchdog said some Sino-Forest
directors may have engaged in acts “related to its securities”
that they “knew or should have known” perpetuated a fraud.  Block had a short position on Sino-Forest shares, as
disclosed in the report. Short selling is the sale of borrowed
shares with the hope of profiting when they fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Frost in  Hong Kong  at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  