-- 
Shumlin Blessed After Flooding by Vermont Voters With Patience, Backhoes

-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 
2011-09-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/shumlin-blessed-by-vermont-constituents-with-patience-backhoes.html
Vermont  has one farm for every 90
people, one cow for every three and, lately, at least two
bulldozers, backhoes or other heavy equipment for almost every
road. The last statistic is good luck for Governor Peter Shumlin.  After  Hurricane Irene  damaged hundreds of homes and miles
of byways across Vermont’s southern half, entire towns were cut
off. The damage to roads and bridges, which may cost as much as
$500 million to fix, was heaviest in places such as Wardsboro, a
mountain hamlet of 900 people, roughly equidistant from the
Mount Snow and Stratton ski resorts. Roads through the town were
washed out, homes teetered on stream edges and trees tumbled
down hillsides.  Shumlin, a 55-year-old Democrat, helicoptered in to
Wardsboro three days after the storm. People hadn’t been
waiting. A small fleet of machinery owned by farmers, towns,
loggers and construction firms had started rebuilding roads,
improvising bridge crossings and removing debris from flooded
rivers before the storm had entirely left.  “It was amazing,” said Lora Barrows, working at the
town’s general store. “Without those crews, we wouldn’t have
any roads. We didn’t see anyone from the state until three or
four days after the storm.”  Did she expect much help?  Barrows shrugged.  Health and Nukes  Even with floods twice this year, Shumlin has been lucky.
In most states, a politician who promised to eliminate a nuclear
power plant, provide single-payer health care and expand
broadband access to small mountain communities would be a fringe
candidate. In Vermont, that candidate became governor.  Shumlin has made strides on two of his three promises. The
Legislature voted in February 2010 not to renew the license for
the Vermont Yankee facility, owned by  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  Shumlin
signed legislation in May creating a panel to recommend steps
for implementing the nation’s first single-payer health-
insurance plan. Broadband access may take longer, mostly because
of topography.  Shumlin was optimistic in a telephone call made as he
bounced over roads leading out of the Mad River Valley that
ranged from rutted to nonexistent. The rains will make fall
foliage better than ever, he said. The damage is an opportunity
to rebuild roads and bridges. Three-quarters of the state was
untouched, and the cleanup showcases residents’ character, he
said.  Storm Proof  Shumlin has avoided weather-related pitfalls that ensnared
other elected leaders. Former Louisiana Governor Kathleen Blanco
decided not to run for re-election after the state’s preparation
for hurricanes Katrina and Rita, which destroyed much of  New
Orleans  and the state’s coast, became an object of derision. New
York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, faced criticism last year
after a post-Christmas blizzard dumped 20 inches of snow and 
some streets went unplowed for a week.  At a national level, Vermont voters are among the nation’s
most partisan. They gave President  Barack Obama  his second-
largest margin of victory in 2008, trailing only his native
 Hawaii  and going Democratic every year since 1992. Shumlin,
however, hired his Republican predecessor’s transportation and
administration chief, Neale Lunderville, to supervise recovery.  Pat McDonald, head of the Vermont Republican Party, said in
a telephone interview from Montpelier that one of Shumlin’s
biggest assets at the moment is his constituency. Both Democrats
and Republicans can fix things, she said.  “We all have backhoes and chainsaws,” she said. “That’s
just Vermont.”  Putney to Montpelier  Shumlin, who grew up in Putney, is the first native elected
governor in a generation. Mildly dyslexic, he helped steer
Landmark College, a school that prepares learning-disabled
students for broader academic work, from Prides Crossing,
 Massachusetts , to his hometown. Governor Madeline Kunin plucked
him from its select board in 1990 to fill a Vermont House of
Representatives seat. He was elected to the state Senate in
1992, and became its leader in 1994.  He took a break in 2003 after being defeated in the
lieutenant governor’s race by Brian Dubie, an American Airlines
pilot and Air Force reservist who helped direct flights into  New
York City  after the Sept. 11 terror attacks.  Shumlin and his brother, Jeff, expanded their parents’
student travel business created in 1951 into a firm that offers
more than 50 programs, including co-sponsored expeditions with
National Geographic, while operating out of a restored cow barn.  Senate Redux  Shumlin ran for his former Senate seat in 2006 and returned
to lead the body, pushing its vote to close Vermont Yankee. He
also clashed with Republican Governor Jim Douglas, resulting in
the state’s first veto and legislative override of a budget.  In 2010, Shumlin defeated Dubie by 3,000 votes in a rematch
to succeed the retiring Douglas as governor.  Three months into the job, Shumlin faced his first
disaster. Record floods along Lake Champlain in April and May
destroyed or damaged about 500 homes near Burlington, the
state’s largest city. Shumlin called it “a dress rehearsal. And
four months after the flooding, most of our businesses are
back.”  Tough on Business  Shumlin acknowledged that after Irene, many businesses
“have been knocked off their feet.” They weren’t on the best
footing before. A February study by the Washington-based  Tax
Foundation  said the state has the eighth-highest tax burden of
any state. A May survey of the best states for businesses by
ChiefExecutive.net ranked Vermont No. 40. Kiplinger’s magazine
described it in June as the most tax-unfriendly state for
retirees.  Lawmakers had to close a $176 million deficit in the $4.8
billion spending blueprint this year, largely through cutting
social services and raising taxes. Before Irene, the
Legislature’s joint fiscal office estimated a $45.6 million gap
next year.  Moody’s Investors Service in November gave the state its
top rating because of its “strong history of financial
management, which includes conservative fiscal policies and the
maintenance of healthy reserve balances.” Moody’s warned of
an aging population, below-average income and slow job growth.  Common Ground  McDonald, the Republican leader, said her party has been
able to work with Shumlin on a few issues, such as strengthening
small farms and expanding broadband.  “There’s been a real lack of focus on  job creation ,” she
said. The state had a 5.7 percent unemployment rate in July,
compared with 9.1 percent nationally, continuing a steady rise
from 5.3 percent in April.  The storm isn’t likely to help the economy, heavily
dependent upon tourism. The University of Vermont’s Tourism Data
Center estimated in 2009 that 11.5 percent of all Vermont jobs
are supported by tourists, who spend $1.4 billion annually. From
September through November 2009, 3.6 million visitors spent $332
million, or 23 percent of the $1.4 billion annual total,
according to the latest state data.  Vermont employees have their own problems. The flooding
swept through an office complex near Waterbury, which was built
around the 1894 State Asylum for the Insane. About 2,000
employees who normally operate from the offices need to find
somewhere else to work for the next three or four months; damage
has been estimated at $15 million to $20 million.  Still, tourism department officials are stemming a tide of
cancellations. Crews are working long hours to fix roads.
Shumlin has been shuttling from town to town, dispensing hugs,
offers of assistance ranging from refrigerators to reduced rent,
and generally being “cheerleader-in-chief,” according to Chris
Graff, a Montpelier author who covered politics for 28 years.  “The truth is,” Graff said, “he usually ends up on his
feet.”  Peter Shumlin at a glance:  Born: March 24, 1956, Brattleboro, Vermont  Party: Democrat  Spouse: Deborah  Children: Olivia, 20, and Rebecca, 19  Education: Bachelor of arts, English and government,  Wesleyan
University , 1979  Career: Co-director, Putney Student Travel Partner; Vermont real
estate companies; Putney Select Board, 1980-90; Vermont House of
Representatives, 1990-93; Vermont Senate, 1994-2003, 2006-2011  Favorite dish: Pasta carbonara  By the power vested in him: Shumlin is the first sitting
governor to preside over a same-sex wedding ceremony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Bass in Washington at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  