-- 
Silvercorp CEO Feng Says Miner May Become Takeover Target After Share Drop

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-09-15T21:02:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/silvercorp-ceo-feng-says-miner-may-become-takeover-target-after-share-drop.html
Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM) , the
Canadian miner accused of fraud in two anonymous reports, may be
vulnerable to a takeover after its shares declined, Chief
Executive Officer Rui Feng said.  “I’m worried our company will now become the target of a
takeover,” Feng said yesterday in a telephone interview. “I’m
very concerned because compared to our peers, our stock should
be C$15 to C$16. Now we are about C$6 and people may take
advantage of the situation.”  Silvercorp rose 44 cents, or 6.8 percent, to C$6.90 at 4:16
p.m. yesterday in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The shares
have dropped 19 percent this month. Silvercorp, which describes
itself as  China ’s largest silver miner, denies the allegations
and says it’s the victim of short sellers who are trying to
drive the shares lower.  “Whether it’s a mining company, a hedge fund or a private
equity firm that really knows for sure that everything is legit,
they’ll cobble the coin together right now and put in a bid,”
 John Goldsmith , a Toronto-based  money manager  at Montrusco
Bolton Investments Inc. who manages about C$500 million ($508
million), said in a telephone interview. He doesn’t hold
Silvercorp shares. “The question then becomes, what’s the
likelihood that Silvercorp’s shareholders would approve.”  On Sept. 2, Vancouver-based Silvercorp denied allegations
contained in an anonymous report that was sent to Canadian
regulators. The document, which was circulated by e-mail,
alleged Silvercorp reported a profit in calendar 2010 to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission while posting a loss to
regulators in China.  Share Buyback  The second report was posted Sept. 13 on Alfredlittle.com,
a website that publishes research about companies doing business
in China. The report questioned the quality of Silvercorp’s ore
and the volume of sales to a related party.  Muddy Waters  LLC, the research firm founded by short seller
Carson Block, said Sept. 13 it was betting Silvercorp would drop
following the publication of the second report.  Sino-Forest Corp., a Chinese timber company, slid 74
percent in Toronto from June 1, the day before Muddy Waters
published a report accusing it of fraud, through Aug. 25, the
last day before regulators halted trading of the shares.  Silvercorp has acquired more than C$31 million of its
shares since announcing June 17 a bid to buy back stock, it said
today in a statement. The company said it plans to purchase more
stock. Feng bought 100,000 shares at an average price of $7.87
apiece on Sept. 6, according to Canadian filings.  Feng declined to comment on whether he has received any
indication a bid for Silvercorp is being prepared.  “I think a lot of people have figured out already that
this company is real,” Feng said. “I didn’t run. I’ve been on
the road to talk to my investors, the No. 1 and No. 2 big
shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 