-- 
Sistema Plans to Bid in State’s $38 Billion Asset Sale Plan

-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-15T13:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/sistema-plans-to-bid-in-state-s-38-billion-asset-sale-plan-1-.html
AFK Sistema, Russian billionaire
 Vladimir Yevtushenkov ’s investment company, will bid for state
assets as  Russia  seeks to raise 1.16 trillion rubles ($38
billion) in the next three years.  “We are interested in a whole list of assets in the sale
program,” Chief Executive Officer Mikhail Shamolin said in an
interview in Moscow yesterday. Sistema is looking to buy at
least 25 percent stakes in mid-sized companies to gain access to
management, he said without naming the firms.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  ordered the government in June to
speed up the asset-sale program as he seeks to modernize the
economy and boost budget revenue. The program may include stakes
in Russia’s largest crude producer, OAO Rosneft, and second-
largest lender, VTB Group, Alexei Uvarov, director of the
 Economy Ministry ’s property department, said Sept. 9.  “There are smaller companies on the privatization list
where it’s possible to gain a controlling stake or 100
percent,” Shamolin said. “The best recipe for economic growth
is to promote competition. Selling state assets and doing away
with monopolies is the key.”  Petrochemicals Expansion  This year Russia plans to offer 20 percent of Novorossiysk
Commercial Sea Port and 100 percent of OAO SG-Trans, the
country’s largest shipper of liquefied gas, according to Uvarov.
A 20 percent stake in OAO Apatit and 34 percent of OAO Murmansk
Commercial Sea Port may also be auctioned before the end of the
year, the Interfax news service said on Sept. 9, citing the
federal property agency.  Sistema, which holds stakes in telecoms, oil and energy,
retail, tourism and medical businesses, said last year it was
moving from an operations model to become an investment fund.
The company is looking to buy assets in related industries as
well as the state stakes, Shamolin said.  “We are looking at the petrochemicals industry,” Shamolin
said. “We see opportunities to build value.”  OAO Bashneft, Sistema’s oil producer and refiner based in
Russia’s Bashkortostan region, is considering a joint venture
with Russian businessman Yakov Goldovsky’s Petrochemical Holding
GmbH, according to a Sept. 7 statement on its website.  Indian Opportunities  “We invest in companies that are undervalued or when we
see potential for boosting value by improving efficiency or
participation in management,” Shamolin said. Sistema is looking
at transport, logistics, agriculture and potentially gas assets.  The company plans to expand where it is now operating, in
the former Soviet Union and  India , Shamolin said. Sistema
entered India in 2008 with the purchase of 74 percent in Shyam
Telelink, now known as Sistema Shyam TeleServices Ltd.,
according to SSTL’s presentation in Moscow last week.  “We are considering more investment there as the economy
is expected to grow 8-10 percent annually in the next 10
years,” Shamolin said. In India, the company is seeking to
invest in energy, oil refinery and infrastructure, he said.  Sistema is seeking an agreement on selling a 25 percent
stake in Bashneft to India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp. by the end
of this year, Shamolin told reporters yesterday.  Bashneft is reviewing some of ONGC’s asset as it considers
granting the Indian explorer access to its Trebs and Titov
fields in the Arctic, Bashneft President Alexander Korsik said
Sept. 8.  Sistema is more likely to borrow to raise funds for
expansion, while not ruling out selling an asset from its core
business unit, which includes Bashneft and the OAO Mobile
TeleSystems phone operator, Shamolin said.  “If we launch projects requiring major investment and are
sure they will bring better yields than our current projects, we
may consider selling one of our core assets,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  