-- 
Skandia’s Watson Says Gold a ‘Hideous’ Bet Over Medium-Term

-- B y   J a m e s   R e g a n
-- 
2011-09-15T10:03:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/skandia-s-watson-says-gold-a-hideous-bet-over-medium-term.html
Rupert Watson, head of asset
allocation at Skandia Investment Group, comments on the outlook
for gold prices, the global economy and equities, as well as
 Hong Kong ’s dollar peg.  He spoke today at a press briefing in Hong Kong. Skandia
Investment Group is the U.K.-based fund-management division of
 Old Mutual Plc. (OML)   On gold:  “Over the medium-term, I think gold will be a hideous
investment, on a sort of 20-year basis, but that doesn’t mean
gold is going to fall over the next year. I think the trigger
for it is when real yields start rising, which is maybe 2013,
2014.”  On the global economy and markets:  “Broadly speaking, we think that the global economy will
continue to recover. We’re not expecting a return to recession,
although at the same time we’re not expecting particularly high
growth either.”  “We think  interest rates  are going to stay very, very,
very low for a long time, of course the Fed has told us they are
likely to be on hold until at least 2013, and that should
support equities both in terms of increasing flows into equities
but also in terms of general support for the economy as well.”  “On most measures equity markets are cheap and investors
are underweight and generally scared or, if you’re French or
Italian, terrified.”  “We have a small overweight to equities and we would be
minded to increase it if the European issues were resolved and
we have a small underweight to bonds largely because of the
exceptionally low yields.”  “Our preferred region is emerging  Asia , which is primarily
 China . The Chinese authorities have done an extremely good job
in slowing the economy and getting inflation under control.”  “Our least favored regions are the U.S. in particular, but
also the developed markets in  Europe .”  On the Hong Kong dollar’s peg:  “It’s served Hong Kong well, but I would say the yuan is
likely to go up against the dollar for the foreseeable future
and the Hong Kong dollar peg will have to go.”  He forecast a change in 2014-2015, saying “it may well
happen at the same time as there’s full convertibility of the
yuan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  