-- 
Swiss Central Bank Pledges Action on Franc as Benchmark Rate Held at Zero

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-09-15T09:10:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/snb-keeps-rate-near-zero-stresses-resolve-to-fight-swiss-franc-s-advance.html
The Swiss central bank said it’s
ready to take “further measures” if needed to stem gains in
the franc against the euro as it left its benchmark  interest
rate  at zero to ward off the threat of a recession.  The  Swiss National Bank , led by Philipp Hildebrand, kept
its three-month Libor target rate at zero after unexpectedly
lowering the benchmark from 0.25 percent last month. That’s in
line with the forecasts of all 21 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. The Zurich-based central bank also  reiterated  it will
defend its currency ceiling with the “utmost determination”
and forecast economic growth to come to a halt in the second
half with consumer prices falling in 2012.  The SNB imposed ceiling of 1.20 against the euro on Sept. 6
and pledged to purchase foreign currencies in “unlimited
quantities” to protect the economy. The franc’s ascent to a
record last month has hurt some of the country’s largest
companies including foodmaker  Nestle SA (NESN)  and sparked an economic
slowdown in the second quarter.  “They are very, very pessimistic,” said Ulrike Rondorf,
an economist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “Forecasting
deflation for next year seems far-fetched to me. It might merely
serve as a justification for introducing a cap.”  The Swiss currency, which is considered a haven in times of
turmoil, reached a record of 1.0075 against the euro on Aug. 9
on investor concern that European governments may be unable to
contain the region’s debt crisis. The franc has remained above
1.20 versus the single currency since the SNB imposed the cap,
and was little changed at 1.2079 at 11:05 a.m. in Zurich today.  ‘Acute Threat’  “With these measures, the SNB is taking a stand against
the acute threat to the Swiss economy and the risk of
deflationary development that spring from massive overvaluation
of the Swiss franc,” the central bank said. “If the economic
outlook and deflation risks so require, the SNB will take
further measures,” it said without elaborating.  With the franc’s ascent hurting exports, the economy may
expand between 1.5 percent and 2 percent this year, the SNB
said. It had previously forecast economic growth of about 2
percent. Inflation may average 0.4 percent in 2011, down from a
previous forecast of 0.9 percent, it said. In 2012, consumer
prices may drop 0.3 percent before rising 0.5 percent in 2013.  ‘Downside Risks’  The SNB, which aims to keep inflation below 2 percent,
forecast annual consumer-price growth to reach 1 percent in the
second quarter of 2014. In June, it had estimated inflation at
2.6 percent in the first quarter of that year.  “In the foreseeable future, there is no risk of inflation
in  Switzerland ,” the central bank said. “There are, however
downside risks for  price stability , should the Swiss franc not
weaken further.”  With exports accounting for about half of gross domestic
product, the Swiss economy may fail to gather strength after
expanding 0.4 percent in the second quarter. That’s the weakest
since a 2009 recession. The KOF economic indicator dropped to
the lowest in almost two years last month and manufacturing
growth weakened. Investor confidence also slumped in August.  “The SNB expects growth to come to a halt in the second
half of the year,” it said in the statement. “Without the
stabilizing effect of the minimum  exchange rate , there would be
a substantial threat of recession.”  SNB Rates  Nestle, the world’s largest foodmaker, said on Sept. 1 it
will seek to offset the franc’s impact through productivity
gains. Holcim AG, the world’s second-biggest cement maker, said
on Aug. 18 that currency effects shaved 203 million francs ($231
million) off operating profit in the second quarter and Swiss
chemicals maker  Clariant AG (CLN)  cut its full-year earnings targets
on Sept. 5 partly on a stronger currency.  SNB policy makers unexpectedly cut borrowing costs last
month and boosted liquidity to money markets to help weaken the
franc. Hildebrand said on Sept. 6 that while costs of the
currency ceiling may be “very high,” doing nothing “would
almost certainly inflict tremendous long-term damage” to the
economy.  “The SNB will do whatever it costs to fulfil its
commitment,” said Julien Manceaux, an economist at ING Group in
Brussels in an e-mailed note. “It becomes very unlikely to see
any rate hike in Switzerland any time soon.”  The central bank last introduced a currency cap in 1978 to
stem gains versus the Deutsche mark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  