-- 
South Africa to Appoint Commission to Investigate Arms Deal of Last Decade

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-09-15T16:17:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/south-africa-to-appoint-commission-to-investigate-arms-deal-of-last-decade.html
President  Jacob Zuma  agreed to
reopen an investigation into graft allegations surrounding an
arms deal by South Africa’s government, including the purchase
of jet fighters from  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and  Saab AB (SAABB) , following
opposition pressure.  Zuma requested that the Ministry of Justice set up a
commission of inquiry to investigate “allegations of
wrongdoing” in connection with the deal, the Presidency said in
an e-mailed statement today. “Closure on this subject will be
in the public interest,” according to the statement.  London-based BAE said in an e-mailed statement, “We have
not currently been notified of any impending investigation but
will obviously cooperate fully with any official bodies in the
event we are required to do so.” Peter Liander, a spokesman for
Stockholm-based Saab, declined to comment immediately, saying he
hadn’t heard about the reopening of the investigation.  The South African probe was concluded by the so-called
Hawks unit of the police last year on the grounds that it was
unlikely to secure further convictions after a decade
investigating claims that officials took bribes from companies
that won weapons contracts totaling $5 billion.  The main opposition Democratic Alliance in June called on
Zuma to look again at corruption allegations surrounding the
purchase of 26 Gripen fighters in 1999 after it circulated
documents showing a Saab unit agreed to pay 98 million rand
($13.3 million) for consultancy services to a company owned by
Fana Hlongwane, a one-time adviser to the late Defense Minister
Joe Modise.  Criticism Cited  The pressure from the opposition and civil-society
organizations may have led Zuma to review the decision to end
the investigation, according to Francis Antonie, director of the
 Helen Suzman Foundation , a Johannesburg-based democracy group.  “The criticism must have carried some weight, because he’s
opening this inquiry,” Antoine said. “We would welcome this.
We are also very concerned to know what the terms of reference
would be and who the commissioners would be.”  Zuma’s former financial adviser Schabir Shaik was convicted
in 2005 of accepting bribes relating to the arms deal on Zuma’s
behalf.  BAE,  Europe ’s biggest defense company, agreed in February
2010 to pay almost $450 million in fines to resolve bribery and
fraud investigations in both the U.S. and U.K., some of which
were linked to the arms sales in South Africa.  About 300 million rand may have illicitly changed hands in
 South Africa ’s dealings with BAE, the head of the Hawks unit,
Anwa Dramat, said in September 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 