-- 
South Korea Rejects Japanese Blame for Weaker Won as Trade Tensions Flare

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-09-15T03:46:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/south-korea-rejects-japanese-blame-for-weaker-won-as-trade-tensions-flare.html
A South Korean official said his
nation shouldn’t be blamed by  Japan  for the won’s weakness
against the yen because investor sentiment is the cause rather
than any government policy of suppressing gains.  Deputy Finance Minister Choi Jong Ku said in an interview
in Seoul today that reported comments by Japan’s top trade
negotiator Hideichi Okada had shown a “lack of understanding.”
Last week, Dow Jones quoted Okada as expressing concern that the
 exchange rate  posed a challenge for Japanese industries. The
Japanese official declined to comment today.  “The Korean government’s stance is to respect market
movements, and only to seek to stabilize excessive
fluctuations,” Choi said by phone. “The strengthening of the
yen versus the won is because investors favor safe assets, not
because of the Korean government’s policy.”  A global economic slowdown may fuel trade and currency
tensions among nations fighting to keep their exports
competitive. Japan has intervened to weaken a yen that has
touched post World War II highs against the dollar and
 Switzerland  has also curbed currency gains.  The yen traded at 14.43 won as of 12:26 p.m. in  Tokyo  today,
strengthening 14 percent since April 11. The gain adds to the
burden on Japanese exporters as the nation struggles to recover
from a March earthquake and tsunami and three straight quarters
of economic contraction.  Won’s Plunge  There was speculation that South Korean authorities
intervened to stabilize currency movements yesterday, when the
won dropped 2.7 percent against the dollar after a two-day
public holiday, said Lee Jin Ill, a Seoul-based senior currency
dealer with Hana Bank.  The won traded at 1,099.38 per dollar today. The currency
weakened to as low as 1,597 on March 6, 2009 as a worsening
global financial crisis prompted financial companies to hoard
the greenback.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said today investors
shouldn’t worry about the Korean economy as the nation has
sufficient foreign-exchange reserves and manageable short-term
external debt. The nation has built up reserves of $312 billion,
a sign that it may have intervened to stop the won from
appreciating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  