-- 
South African Bonds Gain First Day in Five as European Debt Concern Eases

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-09-15T09:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/south-african-bonds-gain-first-day-in-five-as-european-debt-concern-eases.html
South African bonds gained for the
first time in five days after German and French leaders said
they’re certain  Greece  will remain in the euro zone. The rand
declined for a second day against the euro.  The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 added 25 cents to
91.264 rand, driving the yield down four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 8.083 percent as of 11:05 a.m. in
Johannesburg. The rand retreated 0.7 percent to 10.2278 per
euro, and traded 0.2 percent lower versus the dollar at 7.4273.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and President Nicolas Sarkozy
yesterday signaled they’re ready to keep supporting Greece,
easing concern that a Greek default may lead to a funding crisis
for European banks and boosting demand for riskier, emerging-
market assets.  “The news would have gone some way to restoring
confidence,” Tradition Analytics strategists led by
Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in a research note.
“Levels of  risk aversion  have subsided” though “the euro zone
is not out of the woods yet,” they added.  Today’s gains pared the biggest five-day drop for South
African bonds since October 2008 as investors shunned riskier,
high-yielding assets on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will raise
borrowing costs for the region’s banks.  Global investors sold a net 10.8 billion rand ($1.5
billion) of South African stocks and bonds in the first three
days of this week, according to data from JSE Ltd., which
manages the country’s stock and debt exchanges. The  European
Central Bank  said on Sept. 14 it will lend dollars to two euro-
area banks, a sign they are finding it difficult to borrow in
the U.S. currency markets, while Credit Agricole SA and Societe
Generale SA had their long-term credit ratings cut one level by
Moody’s Investors Service.  The sell-off “could relate to an unwinding of leveraged
plays as the euro zone banking crisis intensifies,”  John Cairns 
and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, currency strategists at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in a research note. “If
bond inflows stop or reverse, then we’ll have to become a lot
more bearish on the rand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  