-- 
Spain’s Rajoy Pledges ‘Strong Signal’ to Markets, Tax Breaks

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-09-15T15:22:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/spain-s-rajoy-pledges-strong-signal-to-markets-tax-breaks.html
Spain’s opposition leader  Mariano Rajoy  pledged a stricter budget law and possible tax breaks for
companies that reinvest profits, should his  People’s Party  win a
general election on Nov. 20 as polls indicate.  Rajoy said a PP government would “urgently” pass a new
budget-stability law and impose a “binding” spending limit on
regional governments. The party may offer tax breaks for
companies that reinvest profits and capital gains, he said.  A PP government wouldn’t diverge from the government’s
budget-deficit target of 4.4 percent of gross domestic product
in 2012 “under any circumstances,” he said today, according to
the text of a speech in Barcelona.  The euro region’s fourth-largest economy is going to the
polls four months ahead of schedule as mounting expectations of
a Greek default fuel a surge in Spanish borrowing costs. If
elected, Rajoy will inherit an unemployment rate of 21 percent
and public finances that showed a shortfall of 9.2 percent of
GDP last year, the region’s highest after Greece and Ireland.  “The government that emerges from the polls on November 20
will have to put up strong barriers against contagion,” Rajoy
said. “It will have to send very strong signals to the markets
to change the perception of  Spain ’s risk.”  The gap between Spanish and German 10-year borrowing costs
surged to a euro-era intraday high of 418 basis points on Aug.
5, before the  European Central Bank  stepped in to buy the
country’s bonds. That spread traded at 341 basis points today,
compared with an average of 15 basis points in the first decade
of monetary union.  Poll Lead  The PP would win 44.8 percent of the vote if elections were
held now, giving Rajoy an outright majority in Parliament, the
newspaper El Pais reported Sept. 12, citing a poll. The
Socialists, who have run minority governments since 2004, would
win 30.7 percent, according to the poll, which had a margin of
error of 3.2 percentage points.  Rajoy also pledged an overhaul of the labor market to
tackle the jobless rate, which rises to 46 percent among young
people. He said the party may overhaul the tax system to
“incentivize  job creation , investment and saving, and ensure an
equitable division of the costs of the crisis.”  The party is considering reducing by 10 percentage points
the  tax rate  applied to company profits that are reinvested to
make firms more competitive. It is also studying a measure to
allow companies not to pay tax on  capital gains  from fixed-asset
sales if they reinvest them, Rajoy said.  The PP leader, 56, said Spain needs a “broad structural
remodeling of its public administrations to avoid duplication in
functions and services,” without giving details. Spain has 17
semi-autonomous regions as well as provincial and municipal
authorities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  