-- 
Spain, Luxembourg Become Latest Nations to Approve Expanded Power for EFSF

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-09-15T16:25:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/spain-becomes-fourth-country-to-pass-expanded-powers-for-efsf.html
Spain and Luxembourg today became
the latest countries to approve expanded powers for the euro-
region’s rescue fund. They join France, Italy and  Belgium  in
having authorized the enhancements to the 440 billion-euro ($604
billion) European Financial Stability Facility.  All euro-region nations, excluding Greece,  Portugal  and
Ireland, which are already receiving emergency European Union
funds, need to approve the plan adopted by European leaders on
July 21. European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso,
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  have called on governments to ratify the plan by the end
of this month.  Under its expanded power, the EFSF would take over bond
buying responsibilities from the  European Central Bank  and be
able to lend to nations before they need a bailout.  The following is the status of the EFSF passage by country,
based on Bloomberg News reporting and research published
yesterday by Barclays Capital analysts Michaela Seiman, Jussi Harju and Laurent Fransolet. Bailout recipients  Greece , Ireland
and Portugal are not included.  AUSTRIA: After Parliament’s finance committee rejected adding
the EFSF overhaul to the agenda of its meeting yesterday,
Finance Ministry spokesman Harald Waiglein said the legislature
will call a special meeting of the committee that will have the
question on the agenda. No date has yet been set for the
committee meeting, though it may be this month, he said. A vote
in Parliament would follow.  BELGIUM: The Senate gave final approval to the EFSF expansion on
Sept. 14 following its passage in the lower house.  CYPRUS: The approval process is unclear. Nicholas Papadopoulos,
the chairman of Parliament’s finance committee, said by phone
today that he has received no notification of when the committee
may get the legislation for consideration. There is speculation
the government may submit the bill to Parliament next month.  ESTONIA: The EFSF changes are expected to be approved by
Parliament by the end of September, according to Finance
Minister Spokeswoman Katrin Reimann.  FINLAND : Finland’s parliament is set to debate the changes to
the EFSF beginning Sept. 20 and vote on the bill on Sept. 28.
The government, which has a majority in parliament, has set
collateral as a requirement for Finland’s participation in the
second Greek bailout, approved at the same time July meeting as
the enhanced EFSF.  FRANCE: The Senate approved the plan on Sept. 8, one day after
its passage in the National Assembly.  GERMANY: The Cabinet ratified the measures on Aug. 31, and the
lower house of Parliament, the Bundestag, will vote on them on
Sept. 29. The two main opposition parties have indicated they
will back the legislation, ensuring that it passes.  ITALY: Italy ratified the expanded EFSF powers as part of a
deficit-reduction bill that received its final passage in
parliament yesterday.  LUXEMBOURG: Parliament approved the plan today.  MALTA: Parliament is in recess until Oct. 3.  NETHERLANDS: Dutch parliament is scheduled to approve a
supplementary budget, which includes the proposed EFSF changes,
in first week of October, Niels Redeker, a Finance Ministry
spokesman, said today. Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager plans
to provisionally sign a framework agreement for the EFSF this
weekend to pave the way for the parliamentary vote, he told
lawmakers in The Hague late yesterday.  SLOVAKIA: The earliest Parliament will vote on the package is in
mid-October, Speaker Richard Sulik said in an interview
yesterday.  SLOVENIA: Parliament may begin debating and voting on the
measure next week, provided the government survives a confidence
vote on its budget plan the legislature tomorrow. Should the
government fall, the vote may be delayed until early next year.  SPAIN: The lower house of Parliament approved the plan today.
Final approval by the Senate, largely a formality, is due on
Sept. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  