-- 
Spain to Sell Government Bonds Amid Systemic-Risk Threat

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-09-15T07:13:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/spain-to-sell-government-bonds-amid-systemic-risk-threat.html
Spain today plans to sell as much
as 4 billion euros ($5.5 billion) of bonds, two days after
Italy’s borrowing costs surged at a bill auction and as  Greece ’s
slide toward a possible default roils global markets.  “Lower demand is likely to push up rates as systemic risk
dominates the markets,” said Fadi Zaher, a fixed-income
strategist at  Barclays Wealth  in  London . “The European Central
Bank credit card is running out, the involvement of private
investors in Greece remains hanging in the air and euro-zone
leaders are showing no unity.”  The Treasury is selling bonds maturing in 2019 and 2020 as
the premium investors demand to buy Spain’s debt rather than
German equivalents narrowed to 351 basis points today from 359
basis points on Sept. 13. The ECB intervened on the secondary
markets on Aug. 8 to stem surging Spanish and Italian borrowing
costs. The yield on  Spain ’s benchmark 10-year bond reached a 6.3
percent euro-era high on July 18. Results for today’s auction
are due about 10:45 a.m. Madrid time.  Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said yesterday that Spain’s
interest-cost burden is one of the lowest in  Europe . Prime
Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero is struggling to cut a
 budget deficit  that’s three times the European Union limit and
dodge a bailout.  Divisions among European leaders on aiding Greece and
helping Spain and Italy avoid being engulfed by the debt crisis
are sapping demand for bonds in the region. Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou ’s latest offer of increased austerity is
failing to convince investors the country can meet its fiscal
targets and avoid a default.  Advancing Yields  Italy ’s Treasury sold 3.9 billion euros of five-year bonds
on Sept. 13, with yields rising to 5.6 percent compared with
4.93 percent when similar-maturity securities were sold on July
14. The Treasury fell short of its maximum target of 7 billion
euros as demand was 1.28 times the amount offered, down from
1.93 times at the last sale.  The yield on Greece’s two-year note surged to a record 77
percent yesterday, while the cost of insuring Greek, French,
Spanish and Italian debt against a default surged. The yield on
Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond climbed to 5.37 percent today
compared with 5.08 percent the day after the ECB started buying
Spanish debt.  Spanish banks’ borrowings from the ECB surged to 69.9
billion euros in August, an 11-month high, from 52.05 billion
euros in July, the Bank of Spain said yesterday. Divisions among
European governments over how to tackle the region’s debt crisis
have helped drive up banks’ borrowing costs, narrowing their
access to the wholesale debt markets they need to fund their
business.  Downside Risks  Spain’s credit rating faces risks “on the downside” as
growth slows and regional governments fall behind schedule on
deficit-reduction targets, Fitch Ratings Director Douglas Renwick said in a telephone interview on Sept. 13.  Fitch rates Spain AA+ with a “negative” outlook, and
Renwick said weaker growth, failure to meet deficit targets or
larger-than-forecast use of public funds to rescue banks could
be “clear triggers for the rating.” Moody’s Investors Service
has an Aa2 rating on Spain and  Standard & Poor’s  rates it AA.  Zapatero said yesterday that market tension may affect the
government’s growth forecast. Still, he expects quarterly growth
rates in the third and fourth quarters to be “similar” to the
0.2 percent expansion in the three months through June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  