-- 
Stark Probably Quit ECB Over Dollar Lending, Blanchflower Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-09-15T18:29:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/stark-probably-quit-ecb-over-dollar-lending-blanchflower-says-tom-keene.html
Juergen Stark probably resigned
from the  European Central Bank ’s executive board because he did
not want to support the lending of dollars to euro-area banks,
according to  David Blanchflower .  Stark resigned on Sept. 9 in protest to the Frankfurt-based
central bank’s bond purchases, which he said blurred the line
between monetary and fiscal policy. The ECB said today it will
lend dollars in a series of three-month loans as the region’s
debt crisis limits market access to the U.S. currency.  “I would assume Juergen Stark resigned because he knew
this was coming and didn’t want to be a part of it,”
Blanchflower, a professor at Dartmouth College  Tuck School  of
Business and former member of the  Bank of England ’s Monetary
Policy Committee, said during a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “There had to be
something he resigned over and this is it.”  The coordinated action announced today by ECB,  Federal
Reserve  and other central banks “should have happened a while
ago” and “the market should treat this in a very positive
way,” Blanchflower said today at the Bloomberg Markets 50
Summit in  New York , tied to the magazine’s ranking of the 50
most influential leaders in global markets, finance, business
and government.  “People like me have been saying this should have happened
a while ago but thank goodness they’re doing it,” Blanchflower
said. “The talk over the last few days has been when is  Greece 
going to default. This is the final hour and the coordination is
a really big positive.”  ‘Short Sighted’  The ECB will provide banks with additional liquidity for as
long as needed to ensure money markets function, Stark said in a
speech in Vienna today. He will remain the ECB’s chief economist
until a replacement is found.  “As long as necessary, we will conduct liquidity
management designed to ensure functioning money markets,” Stark
said. “Our non-standard measures have helped to stabilize the
situation for banks and thereby supported the flow of credit in
the euro region.”  Stark’s resignation, less than two months before President
Jean-Claude Trichet’s term ends, suggests policy makers are
increasingly split over the best way to fight  Europe ’s debt
crisis. The ECB last introduced a three-month dollar loan in May
2010 to calm markets roiled by the threat of a Greek default.
Some of the measures lawmakers are considering to tackle the
crisis are “worryingly short-sighted,” Stark said today.  “They carry the danger of undermining the market mechanism
which, with risk premiums on interest rates of fiscally
incautious countries’ debt, offers an incentive for stability-
oriented budget policies,” Stark said today. “The proposal for
euro bonds is especially problematic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  