-- 
Stark Says ECB Will Provide Extra Liquidity as Long as Needed

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-09-15T16:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/stark-says-ecb-will-provide-extra-liquidity-as-long-as-needed.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Juergen Stark said the ECB will provide banks with
additional liquidity for as long as needed to ensure money
markets function.  “As long as necessary, we will conduct liquidity
management designed to ensure functioning money markets,” Stark
said in a speech in Vienna today. “Our non-standard measures
have helped to stabilize the situation for banks and thereby
supported the flow of credit in the euro region.”  The ECB last month committed to provide banks with
unlimited euro liquidity in its refinancing operations through
the end of the year. Today it announced it will offer banks
three-month dollar loans after the region’s debt crisis started
to limit  market access  to the U.S. currency.  European leaders are struggling to ring-fence a sovereign
debt crisis that started in  Greece , spread to Ireland and
 Portugal  and is now threatening to engulf Italy and  Spain , the
region’s third and fourth-largest economies. Some of the
measures lawmakers are considering to tackle the crisis are
“worryingly short-sighted,” Stark said.  “They carry the danger of undermining the market mechanism
which, with risk premiums on interest rates of fiscally
incautious countries’ debt, offers an incentive for stability-
oriented budget policies,” Stark said “The proposal for euro
bonds is especially problematic.”  ‘Considerable Damage’  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said yesterday
he is close to proposing options on joint euro-area bond sales,
putting officials in Brussels on a collision course with  Germany 
over steps to contain the debt crisis. Alexander Dobrindt, the
general-secretary of the Bavarian  Christian Social Union , called
on the Commission to stop its plan, saying they violate European
Union and German law, Focus magazine reported.  Euro bonds “merely cover up” the costs of the fiscal
crisis instead of absorbing them, Stark said. “What seems like
a quick solution for the sovereign-debt crisis in the euro area
to supporters would cause considerable damage to the long-term
stability of the euro area.”  Stark last week announced his resignation from the ECB
board in protest at its bond purchases. He will remain the ECB’s
chief economist until a replacement is found.  Stark today cautioned against leaving interest rates too
low for too long. The Frankfurt-based central bank has lifted
its benchmark  interest rate  twice this year after inflation in
the 17-nation euro region breached the ECB’s 2 percent limit.  “We have to take note that a monetary policy that keeps
interest rates too low and provides a high level of liquidity at
the same time can create potential dangers,” Stark said. “And
globally we have extremely low rates and a glut of liquidity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Vienna at  jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  