-- 
Sun Hung Kai Profit Jumps More Than Estimated to Record on Apartment Sales

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-15T09:15:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/sun-hung-kai-underlying-profit-rises-to-record-on-home-sales-1-.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the
world’s biggest developer by market value, said full-year
underlying profit rose 55 percent to a record high after home
sales and rental income increased.  Profit excluding property revaluations rose to HK$21.5
billion ($2.8 billion) for the 12 months ended June 30, the Hong
Kong-based builder said in a statement to the city’s stock
exchange today. That compares with the HK$19 billion median
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Sun Hung Kai has spent more than HK$11 billion buying sites
from the Hong Kong government this year even as rising mortgage
rates and concerns that the global economic expansion is slowing
stalled home price growth. The developer booked profits from the
sales of apartments at projects including Larvotto and Valais
during the period under review.  “They still have a strong pipeline of land reserves and
apartments for sale in the next couple of years,”  Kenny Tang ,
Hong Kong-based general manager of AMTD Financial Planning Ltd.,
said before the announcement.  Shares of Sun Hung Kai, with a market capitalization of
about $34 billion, have declined 21 percent this year, compared
with the 20 percent drop in the Hang Seng Property Index, which
tracks the city’s seven biggest developers including the company.  Hong Kong’s home prices have risen more than 70 percent
since the beginning of 2009 on record low mortgage rates, an
influx of buyers from other parts of  China  and a lack of new
supply. This has prompted the city’s government to impose
measures such as higher mortgage down-payment requirements and
accelerating land sales to curb the formation of an asset bubble.  Sales, Rental  Profit from apartment sales rose to HK$16.64 billion from
HK$6.62 billion, the company said.  Hong Kong ’s developers begin
selling homes while they’re still in construction and book
profits upon completion.  Sun Hung Kai, which owns the International Finance Centre
II and the International Commerce Centre, the city’s two tallest
buildings, posted increased earnings from rental properties, as
expansion by Hong Kong companies pushed up office rents. Overall
prime office rental in the city jumped 40 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, according to Colliers International.  Rental income at the developer rose to HK$9.51 billion from
HK$8.31 billion a year earlier.  The developer is controlled by the family of Chairwoman
Kwong Siu-hing, wife of late founder Kwok Tak Seng. She will
retire at the shareholders meeting to be held on Dec. 8, the
company said in a separate statement.  Thomas Kwok Ping-kwong and Raymond Kwok Ping-luen will be
appointed as joint chairmen of the company, according to the
statement. The brothers, sons of Kwok, took over running Sun
Hung Kai in May 2008 after ousting elder brother  Walter Kwok 
from the chairmanship.  The family’s combined wealth of $20 billion is second on
Forbes Magazine’s list of Hong Kong’s richest.  Including property revaluation, net income rose to HK$48.1
billion, or HK$18.71 a share, from HK$30 billion, or HK$11.71 a
share, a year earlier, the company said.  --Kelvin Wong, Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Tan Hwee Ann  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  