-- 
Sun Hung Kai Lowers Home Sales Target, Signaling Hong Kong Market Risks

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-16T08:17:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/sun-hung-kai-s-lower-target-underscores-slowing-hong-kong-market.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the
world’s biggest developer by market value, said it expects
reduced home sales in Hong Kong this fiscal year, an indication
that the city’s property market is slowing.  The developer seeks to sell about 3,000 units for HK$28
billion ($3.6 billion) in the fiscal year that began July 1,
Eric Chow, an  executive director  at the company’s agency arm,
said yesterday. That compares with almost HK$37 billion the
previous year, and HK$21 billion two years ago.  Home sales in Hong Kong have slowed amid a global equity
rout and as concerns grow that the city will slip into a
recession. Prices have risen more than 70 percent since the
beginning of 2009 on record low mortgage rates, an influx of
buyers from other parts of  China  and a lack of new supply.  “Earnings might have peaked,” said Lee Wee Liat, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Samsung Securities Ltd. “They’ve done
very well in the past year but going forward the economic
environment will be challenging. Sentiment is also weakening.”  The group has sold HK$13 billion of homes since July in
projects including the Cullinan in the city’s West Kowloon
district, Chow said.  Shares of Sun Hung Kai, with a market capitalization of
about $35 billion, have declined 17 percent this year, compared
with the 18 percent drop in the Hang Seng Property Index, which
tracks the city’s seven biggest developers, including the
company. The shares advanced 0.8 percent to HK$103.20 at the
close of  Hong Kong  trading, after rising as much as 5.6 percent.  Chairmen Appointment  Sun Hung Kai yesterday said full-year underlying profit
rose 55 percent to HK$21.5 billion, a record high, after home
sales and rental income increased. That was above the HK$19
billion median estimate of seven analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Thomas Kwok and  Raymond Kwok  will be appointed as joint
chairmen of the developer after Chairwoman Kwong Siu-hing, wife
of late founder Kwok Tak Seng, will retire at the shareholders
meeting to be held on Dec. 8, according to a separate statement.
The brothers took over running Sun Hung Kai in May 2008 after
ousting elder brother  Walter Kwok  from the chairmanship.  Volatile Market  Concerns that real estate prices are overheating prompted
Hong Kong’s government to raise mortgage down-payment
requirements and accelerate land sales. Sun Hung Kai spent more
than HK$11 billion buying sites from the city this year as the
government put more land on sale. Rival  Cheung Kong Holdings
Ltd. (1) , the city’s second-biggest builder, has spent more than
HK$22 billion on six sites over the same period.  “The market has been quite volatile lately,” Sun Hung Kai
Vice-Chairman Thomas Kwok said yesterday. “In spite of that,
our financial condition is still very stable so our strategy
remains the same. We’ll keep acquiring land as long as we are
able to continue selling homes.”  Hong Kong’s home prices fell for the first time in seven
months in July, according to data from the city’s Rating and
Valuation Department. Three sites sold by the government since
August were below analyst estimates.  “A good set of results, but a tougher operating
environment going forward appears to be the message,”  Andrew Lawrence , a Hong Kong-based analyst at  Barclays Capital , wrote
in a note to clients after the earnings. Barclays maintained its
“overweight” recommendation on the stock and a 12-month price
target of HK$132.65.  Sales, Rental Income  Profit from apartment sales rose to HK$16.64 billion from
HK$6.62 billion, the company said. Hong Kong’s developers begin
selling homes while they’re still in construction and book
profits upon completion.  Sun Hung Kai, which owns the International Finance Centre
II and the  International Commerce Centre , the city’s two tallest
buildings, posted increased rental earnings, as expansion by
Hong Kong companies pushed up office rents. Overall prime office
rental in the city jumped 40 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier, according to Colliers International.  Sun Hung Kai’s rental income rose to HK$9.51 billion from
HK$8.31 billion a year earlier. Growth may slow this year as
companies pull back on expansion plans, Samsung’s Lee said.  Including property revaluation, net income rose to HK$48.1
billion, or HK$18.71 a share, from a restated HK$30 billion, or
HK$11.71 a share, a year earlier, the company said yesterday.  The Kwok family’s combined wealth of $20 billion is second
on Forbes Magazine’s list of Hong Kong’s richest.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  