-- 
Swedish Banks Can Still Tap U.S. Funds, Riksbank’s Persson Says

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   J o n a s   B e r g m a n
-- 
2011-09-15T14:24:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/swedish-banks-can-still-tap-u-s-funds-riksbank-s-persson-says.html
Swedish banks can still tap U.S.
money markets and have full access to European funding, the
Riksbank’s head of financial stability said, as central banks in
the U.S. and euro area set up emergency dollar liquidity lines.  “Nordic banks still have access to U.S. money market
funds,” Mattias Persson said today at an event hosted by UBS AG
in  Stockholm . “Swedish banks still have full access to euro
funding markets. Not many banks could issue unsecured debt right
now, but Swedish banks are probably some of the only ones to be
able to do that, though the costs would be high.”  The  European Central Bank , the U.S. Federal Reserve, the
 Bank of England , the Bank of  Japan  and the Swiss National Bank
in a joint effort today agreed to lend dollars to euro-area
banks and ensure they have enough of the U.S. currency through
this year. The loans are in addition to the ECB’s regular seven-
day dollar offerings and will be conducted as fixed-rate tenders
with full allotment, the ECB said in a statement.  Sweden ’s Riksbank isn’t participating in the coordinated
dollar liquidity line, spokesman Tomas Lundberg said by phone
today. He declined to comment on whether the bank has plans to
provide an emergency facility should the need arise.  Two European banks this week borrowed dollars from the ECB
in its regular seven-day operation, signaling the lenders don’t
have proper access to U.S. currency in regular markets. The
European bank financing market is “very stressed” and funding
rates are unlikely to drop until the region finds a solution to
Greece’s debt crisis,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  Chief Executive Officer
Christian Clausen said in Stockholm today.  ‘Stressful Period’  “This is going to be a very stressful period for funding
markets,” he said. “There needs to be a solution on  Greece .”  Nordic central banks weren’t listed as being among those
participating in today’s coordinated currency action. In 2008,
at the height of the financial crisis, the central banks of
Sweden, Denmark and Norway all took part in a similar
coordinated effort to unlock dollar markets.  “Nordics are still a safe haven,” Clausen said today.
“Sweden, Finland trading below  Germany , while Denmark is
trading marginally above, while still only slightly above
Germany.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  