-- 
Sweden Needs Fiscal Buffer to Withstand Crisis, Reinfeldt Says

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 
2011-09-15T13:06:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/sweden-needs-fiscal-buffer-to-withstand-crisis-reinfeldt-says.html
Sweden must ensure its budget
doesn’t fall into deficit to create a buffer needed to withstand
the threat of a deepening economic crisis in  Europe , Prime
Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said.  “We should have clear safety margins -- financial savings
close to balance -- to secure our freedom to act to meet a long-
term and deepening crisis,” Reinfeldt said today in a speech in
Stockholm at the opening of parliament.  Reinfeldt’s four-party minority-government last month
scrapped plans to cut income taxes as Sweden’s economic outlook
deteriorates. The opposition had threatened to oppose tax cuts
by maneuvering around budget laws, a move that could have
provoked a new election and cut short a sitting government’s
term for the first time since 1953.  The government plans to cut the value added tax on
restaurant and catering services in half next year and invest in
infrastructure and education. It estimates it can spend 10
billion kronor to 15 billion kronor next year on initiatives.  Finance Minister Anders Borg on Aug. 26 slashed the 2012
forecast for growth in the largest Nordic economy to 1.3 percent
from 3.8 percent previously, as a weaker global economic outlook
hurts demand for exports, which  Sweden  relies on for half its
output.  Broad Cooperation  Reinfeldt today said he would look for broad cooperation in
parliament to drive through the minority government’s economic
policies. The opposition in March united to block the minority
government’s plans to sell stakes in TeliaSonera AB, utility
Vattenfall AB and mortgage lender SBAB, while the government
last month postponed further reducing its stake in Nordea Bank
AB because of the turmoil on the financial markets.  “The government will strive for broad and responsible
solutions in parliament where it is logical to have continuous
discussions primarily with the  Green Party  but also with the
 Social Democrats  when the conditions are right,” Reinfeldt
said.  In total, Reinfeldt’s government has cut income and pension
taxes by about 80 billion kronor, or 2.4 percent of gross
domestic product. It has also reduced jobless benefits,
corporate taxes and abolished a levy on wealth.  Swedish budget law means a minority can pass a budget bill
as long as the majority is not united in support of a single
opposing proposal. A refusal to cooperate with the Sweden
Democrats, which wants to restrict immigration, prevented a
united opposition to block this year’s budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  