-- 
Swiss Stocks Gain; Holcim Advances, UBS Slumps on $2 Billion Trading Loss

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-09-15T15:51:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/swiss-stocks-gain-transocean-rises-ubs-slumps-on-2-billion-trading-loss.html
Swiss stocks rose for a third day
as gains by Credit Suisse Group AG and  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  outweighed a
slump in  UBS AG (UBSN)  after the country’s largest lender said it made
a $2 billion trading loss because of unauthorized trading.  “There are two key areas of damage that are happening to
UBS here,” said Alastair McCaig, a trader at World Spreads Ltd.
in  London , in a Bloomberg Television interview. “You have the
market capitalization and the effects on the profitability of
the company, but you’ve also got reputational damage. The extent
of both of these will be dictated by how many trades this was.”  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  increased 0.3 percent to 5,433.48 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich as the  European Central Bank , the
 Federal Reserve  and the Bank of Japan said they will lend
dollars to euro-area banks to ensure they have sufficient
holdings of the U.S. currency until the end of the year. The
broader Swiss Performance Index climbed 0.5 percent.  The SMI slumped 29 percent from this year’s highest level
in February through the gauge’s low on Aug. 10 amid concern that
global economic growth is slowing and Europe’s debt is
spreading. The gauge has since rebounded 13 percent after the
selloff dragged the price-earnings ratio to 10.7 times the
estimated earnings of its constituent companies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The average ratio over the last five
years was 14 times earnings.  UBS plunged 11 percent to 9.75 Swiss francs, its lowest
since March 2009. The bank said it may book a loss in the third
quarter as a result of the unauthorized trading. No client
positions were affected, the Zurich-based bank said in a
statement today.  Unauthorized Trading  UBS said it “discovered a loss due to unauthorized trading
by a trader in its investment bank. The matter is still being
investigated, but UBS’s current estimate of the loss on the
trades is in the range of $2 billion.”  The loss is “manageable at the group level, but is
obviously not helpful for sentiment and confidence in the bank’s
risk management following the near-death experience of
2008-09,” Andrew Lim, a bank analyst at Banco Espirito Santo SA
in London, wrote in an e-mail. The slide in UBS’s stock price
“is an overreaction, given that a $2 billion loss represents 5
percent of 2011 estimated  shareholders’ equity .” Lim maintained
his “buy” recommendation on the shares.  Credit Suisse gained 5.8 percent to 21.69 Swiss francs.
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  advanced 1.8 percent to 50.90 francs and Holcim
climbed 3.2 percent to 46.36 francs.  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , Switzerland’s biggest
insurer, added 4.5 percent to 173 francs after naming Pierre Wauthier as chief financial officer.  Implenia AG (IMPN)  gained 2.8 percent to 21.80 francs after
announcing that a consortium it leads had won a 100 million-
franc ($115 million) order from Swiss Railways SBB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  