-- 
Syrian Death Toll Mounts as Uprising Against Assad Enters Seventh Month

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-15T18:21:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/syria-toll-mounts-as-uprising-against-assad-enters-7th-month-1-.html
Syrian forces killed at least 12
protesters as an uprising against President Bashar al-Assad
entered its seventh month and  United Nations  Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moon said the killing must stop immediately.  “Enough is enough,” Ban told reporters at the UN in  New
York . “For six months, we have seen escalating violence and
repression. The international community has repeatedly appealed
to President Assad to stop, most recently the foreign ministers
of the  Arab League . He must now listen to such urgent calls.”  The deaths took place yesterday across Syria, including the
governorates of Homs and Hama, the town of Deir al-Zour, the
city of Aleppo, Idlib province, the suburbs of the capital of
Damascus and the Daraa area, where the unrest began in mid-
March, said Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human
Rights in  Syria . He said 27 people died the day before.  This year’s crackdown on dissent has left more than 3,600
civilians dead, according to Qurabi. About 30,000 have been
detained and 13,000 of them are still being held, according to
estimates from Qurabi and Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights.  U.S. and European leaders have stepped up sanctions against
Assad and urged him to cede power. The measures haven’t halted
the suppression of what Syria’s government calls foreign-backed
terrorism.  Coherent Measures  Ban said the “international community should really take
some coherent measures and speak in one voice,” an apparent
reference to the U.S. and European proposal for UN sanctions
against the Assad regime. Opposition in the UN  Security Council 
from Russia and  China  has prevented adoption of a Western-backed
draft resolution.  Syrian state media  organizations aired what it called
“confessions” by Colonel Hussein Harmoush, the most senior
commander to break away from the army. Harmoush fled to  Turkey 
after the uprising began. The Turkish government turned him over
to Syrian authorities.  Harmoush, speaking on Syrian state television, said the
Muslim Brotherhood smuggled weapons to several Syria cities,
including Hama and Homs, and that the leaders of “criminal
groups” coordinated with each other to distribute weapons as
well.  Syrian opposition groups will announce today in Istanbul
the creation of a 130-member national council in a push to unify
against Assad’s regime, Qurabi said. The council will include
about 70 members of the opposition in exile, while the rest will
be from those based in the country. Members will come from the
Sunni, Shiite, Alawite, Druze and Christian communities as well
as the Kurdish minority and the Muslim Brotherhood.  Sanctions on Oil  The European Union and U.S. have announced sanctions
against Syria, including bans on oil imports. The embargo
affects Syrian exports valued at 3.16 billion euros ($4.4
billion) in 2010, according to the  European Commission . Russia
has rejected U.S. and European calls for Assad to step down and
warned that any efforts to overthrow him by force will unleash
chaos in the  Middle East .  Syria is likely to maintain oil production and find
alternative buyers, the  International Energy Agency  said in its
monthly report released Sept. 13. The IEA estimates that Syria
exported about 157,000 barrels of oil a day in 2010 and about
127,000 barrels a day in the first quarter of 2011 to European
members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Dubai at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 