-- 
U.K. Deal Crackdown Forces Mystery Bidders to Reveal Themselves

-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 
2011-09-15T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-k-deal-crackdown-forces-mystery-bidders-to-reveal-themselves.html
Mystery suitors for U.K. companies
will be forced to declare themselves next week as regulators
implement stricter guidelines to increase transparency and
protect shareholders.  Bidders for seven companies, including  Central Rand Gold
Ltd. (CRD)  and  CryptoLogic Ltd. (CRY) , will have to identify themselves
under new rules that go into effect Sept. 19. They will then
have 28 days to craft formal offers and provide details on
financing, advisers and fees, or walk away for six months,
according to Takeover Panel guidelines.  The policies, part of a broader regulatory overhaul after
 Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ’s $20 billion purchase of the U.K.’s Cadbury
Plc last year, aim to protect investors in target companies and
reduce the advantages hostile bidders had under previous rules.
While the moves may increase certainty around transactions, they
also threaten to stall dealmaking, already down 44 percent in 
the U.K. this quarter from a year ago.  “This could lead to a slowing in M&A activity, in what is
already a pretty tough market,” said Philip Broke, a partner at
 law firm  White & Case LLP in  London . “Companies in situations
that have not become public will probably be nervous if it
becomes public after Sept. 19 because they will have to make a
quick decision on whether they can be ready.”  Deal Freeze  The new rules require bidders to reveal themselves if a
target has disclosed talks with a potential unidentified buyer
or if the discussions become public through news reports.  The four-week window for formal offers may deter hostile
bidders, which typically need time to build a case to win over
investors at the target company. There has been one hostile
takeover offer for a U.K. company this year,  Alere Inc. (ALR) ’s July
bid for diagnostic test-maker  Axis-Shield Plc (ASD) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Requiring potential offerors to clarify their position
within a short period of time will increase the protection for
offeree companies against a protracted ‘virtual bid,’ referring
to when a company announces it is considering making an offer,
but does not commit to do so,” Robert Gillespie, director
general for the panel, said in an e-mailed statement.  The changes may help to make transactions more solid
because suitors will conduct further due diligence and attempt
to set financing before making approaches, said Nick Rumsby, an
M&A partner at law firm Linklaters LLP in London.  “There will be a lot of debate about when to approach
because they have to be ready if the details leak,” he said.
“Otherwise they risk embarrassment if they can’t put a bid on
the table within the 28-day period, or secure the target’s
agreement to an extension.”  Fewer Deals  Merger and acquisition volume in  Europe  has fallen 26
percent so far this quarter from a year earlier, to $150
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.K. deals
sank to $63 billion, with U.S. companies including  Fidelity
National Information Services Inc. (FIS)  and  Cooper Industries Plc (CBE) 
dropping plans to acquire British companies last month.  Under the takeover agency’s previous guidelines, bidders
could stay anonymous after negotiations became public and had no
deadline for formal bids until targets requested them, which
sometimes took months.  “There is a real chance that potential offerors will
decide they don’t want to be named, so they will stop any
discussions and agree to stop work for six months,” said
Rumsby. “Being named as a potential offeror, combined with a
mandatory four-week deadline, will focus people’s minds on bid
tactics and preparation in a way they probably don’t think about
at the moment.”  Talks Collapse  ATH Resources Plc, a coal-mining company, and Maxima
Holdings Plc, a computer-systems management firm, both said this
week that talks with unidentified bidders collapsed.  Companies in an offer situation where the bidder is unknown
include  Alexon Group Plc (AXN) ,  Arena Leisure Plc (ARE) , Pointon York Group
Ltd.,  Specialist Energy Group Plc (SEGR)  and  Travelzest Plc (TVZ) , according
to the Takeover Panel’s website. There are more than 30
potential deals before the panel.  Regulators began reviewing the code last year after
Northfield, Illinois-based Kraft’s hostile six-month effort to
buy candy maker Cadbury. The panel criticized Kraft for
misstating its intentions over keeping a U.K. plant open, the
panel’s first public reprimand in three years. Lawmakers
including then Business Secretary  Peter Mandelson  argued that
companies making bids should focus on long-term interests, not
short-term gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  