-- 
U.K. August Retail Sales Fall on Waning Consumer Confidence

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-15T08:43:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-k-retail-sales-fall-on-waning-confidence.html
U.K. retail sales fell in August
for the first time in three months as waning  consumer confidence 
deterred spending and some stores lost business due to riots in
London and other cities.  Sales including fuel declined 0.2 percent from July, when
they rose by the same amount, the  Office for National Statistics 
said today in London. The median forecast of 24 economists in a
Bloomberg survey was for a 0.3 percent decrease. On the year,
sales were unchanged.  U.K. consumers are being squeezed by inflation at 4.5
percent, almost twice the pace of wage growth. Coupled with the
government’s budget cuts, that’s restraining the recovery and
pushing officials at the  Bank of England  to discuss whether they
need to pump more stimulus into the economy.  “It doesn’t surprise me that retail sales are in negative
territory as household incomes aren’t rising strongly enough,”
said  Alan Clarke , an economist at Scotia Capital Europe Ltd. in
London. “It’s not going to be easy going.”  An index of sentiment fell to minus 31 in August from minus
30 in July, according to GfK NOP Ltd., as Britons became more
pessimistic about the economic outlook.  Inflation Expectations  The Bank of England said in a report today that household
inflation expectations climbed to their highest level in three
years last month. Consumers questioned in August expected prices
to increase 4.2 percent over the next year, up from a reading of
3.9 percent in May.  The pound rose against the dollar after the release of the
reports. It traded at $1.5798 as of 9:36 a.m. in  London , from
$1.5768 yesterday.  The statistics office said some stores reported that they
closed early for part of August after the worst riots in Britain
since the 1980s, affecting sales. Other stores said they
benefited as consumers shifted spending. The statistics office
said it can’t quantify the impact of the violence on sales.  The monthly drop in retail sales in August was led by
department stores, down 0.8 percent on the month, the most since
February. Food sales fell 0.3 percent, while sales at “other
stores,” which includes computers, telecoms, toys and books,
slipped 0.4 percent. Gasoline sales fell 1.1 percent.  ‘Challenging’  John Lewis Partnership Plc, the owner of the U.K.’s largest
department-store chain, said yesterday that first-half earnings
fell 23 percent on the cost of store openings and as it sought
to match competitors’ prices. Chairman Charlie Mayfield said
that trading conditions are “set to remain challenging through
the rest of this year and into 2012.”  Today’s data also showed that clothes sales rose 0.5
percent, partly boosted by discounts and demand for school
uniforms as the summer holidays ended.  Next Plc (NXT) , the U.K.’s
second-largest clothing retailer, raised its annual profit
forecast yesterday and said 2012 may be less challenging.  Excluding fuel, retail sales fell -0.1 percent in August on
the month and on the year, the statistics office said.  The Bank of England held its key  interest rate  at 0.5
percent and bond-purchase program at 200 billion pounds ($315
billion) this month as officials resisted pressure to extend
stimulus in the face of accelerating price growth. Policy maker
 Adam Posen  said on Sept. 13 that the central bank may need to
expand the bond plan by as much as 100 billion pounds to support
the recovery.  The retail sales deflator, a measure of changes in shop
prices, rose to 4.7 percent in August, the highest in three
years, from 4.4 percent in July, the statistics office said.
Excluding auto fuel, the deflator increased to 3.3 percent from
3.1 percent. The deflator on clothes jumped to 4.2 percent, the
highest since 1991, from 3.6 percent, while the food-price
deflator stayed at 5.7 percent.  Internet sales  accounted for 9.6 percent of all retail
sales in August, up from 8.1 percent the previous month and 7.1
percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  