-- 
U.K. Stocks Climb for Third Day, Led by Barclays, Kingfisher

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-09-15T16:14:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-k-stocks-advance-for-a-third-day-rbs-lloyds-kingfisher-shares-climb.html
U.K. stocks rose for a third day
after Germany and France reiterated that Greece will remain a
member of the euro and the  European Central Bank  stepped up
funding support to the region’s banks.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  jumped at least 4
percent after the ECB said it will lend dollars to euro-area
banks in coordination with the  Federal Reserve  and other central
banks.  Kingfisher Plc (KGF) , Europe’s largest home-improvement
retailer, surged 4.8 percent after reporting first-half profit
that beat analysts’ estimates.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  increased 110.52, or 2.1
percent, to 5,337.54 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The FTSE
100 has lost 10 percent since the start of July as concern
mounted that Greece will fail to repay all its debt and banks
are struggling to get finance amid an escalating sovereign-debt
crisis. The FTSE All-Share Index also gained 2.1 percent, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index slid 0.2 percent.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said late yesterday they are “convinced”  Greece 
will stay in the euro area as they faced international calls to
increase efforts to fight the sovereign-debt crisis.  “A slightly improved newsflow on the euro zone and banks
has been seized upon by investors to move the market up,” said
Ian Murrell, an analyst at Pritchard Stockbrokers Ltd. in
London. “Markets needed a rally and they got a reason for it.”  Stocks also rose as a U.S. report showed that industrial
production in the country unexpectedly rose in August. Output at
factories, mines and utilities climbed 0.2 percent after a 0.9
percent gain in July, figures from the Federal Reserve showed
today. Economists had forecast no change, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Barclays, Lloyds Climb  Barclays gained 4 percent to 158 pence. Lloyds added 7.2
percent to 35.91 pence.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
advanced 4 percent to 23.72 pence. A measure of euro-area banks
rallied 6.3 percent for its biggest jump since January.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said that, in coordination with the
Federal Reserve, the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan and the
Swiss National Bank, it will conduct three U.S. dollar
liquidity-providing operations with a maturity of approximately
three months. The loans are in addition to the bank’s regular
seven-day dollar offerings. The ECB will conduct them as fixed-
rate tenders with full allotment, it said in a statement.  Ring Fencing Banks  Separately, Deutsche Bank AG said U.K. recommendations that
lenders should build firewalls between their consumer units and
investment banks and increase capital may be less costly than
some investors and analysts had estimated.  “We think the ring-fence idea has been proposed in a
format which minimizes costs to banks and their customers, but
retains the advantages of greater depositor protection,”
analysts Jason Napier wrote in a report today. They added that
RBS and Lloyds shares are “oversold” and kept “buy”
recommendations on both.  Kingfisher jumped 4.8 percent to 251.1 pence. The retailer
reported that its first-half profit rose 24 percent to 439
million pounds ($694 million) as growth in France offset lower
U.K. sales and as the company saved money by getting more goods
direct from suppliers. That beat the average estimate of 12
analysts compiled by Bloomberg of 408 million pounds.  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF)  advanced 1.6 percent to 1,083
pence. The company, which said on Sept. 12 that second-half
earnings will meet its expectations, was upgraded by UBS AG to
“buy” from “neutral.”  Burberry, Booker Group  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods maker,
rose 6.6 percent to 1,457 pence. China may cut luxury-goods
taxes by the end of the year, the National Business Daily
reported. The world’s second-biggest economy will cut tariffs on
cosmetics first. Clothes and leather goods might follow, the
newspaper said, citing an unidentified person familiar with the
situation.  Booker Group Plc (BOK)  rallied 7.9 percent to 74.55 pence. The
wholesaler of grocery products said second-quarter comparable
sales rose 5.6 percent and total sales gained 7.6 percent in the
12 weeks ended Sept. 9.  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG) , Europe’s second-largest tour
operator, surged 22 percent to 47.8 pence for the largest gain
on the  FTSE 250 Index. (MCX)  About 9.1 percent of the company’s issued
shares have been borrowed, according to Data Explorers, probably
to short-sellers who expect to buy back the securities more
cheaply at a later stage after selling them.  Dunelm Group Plc (DNLM)  surged 5.8 percent to 451.9 pence, its
biggest gain in more than two months. The company, which sells
home furnishings, said full-year pretax profit increased 9
percent to 83.6 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  