-- 
U.S.’s Current-Account Deficit Unexpectedly Narrowed as Exports Increased

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-15T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-current-account-gap-unexpectedly-narrowed-in-second-quarter.html
The current-account deficit in the
U.S. unexpectedly narrowed in the second quarter, reflecting an
increase in exports and a record income surplus.  The gap, the broadest measure of international trade because
it includes income payments and government transfers, shrank 1.3
percent to $118 billion from a revised $119.6 billion shortfall
in the prior quarter, a Commerce Department report showed today
in Washington. The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey called for the deficit to widen to $122.4 billion.  The 4.7 percent drop in the dollar in the past year has
resulted in American-made goods becoming cheaper for overseas
buyers, helping to fuel exports. At the same time, the balance of
payments deficit is a reminder the world’s largest economy will
remain dependent on foreign investors for funding.  “With the rise in exports, our trade position has improved,
which is helping to lower the current-account gap,”  Omair Sharif , an economist at RBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said before the report. “There’s no doubt we’ll
continue to need financing from overseas, and we’ll continue to
get that financing. U.S. assets are still one of the safest in
the world.”  Economist Estimates  Estimates of 34 economists in a Bloomberg News survey ranged
from deficits of $135.5 billion to $117.0 billion. The first-
quarter shortfall was revised from a previously reported $119.3
billion.  The gap represented 3.1 percent of gross domestic product
last quarter, compared with 3.2 percent in the first quarter.  The trade deficit, which accounted for most of the current-
account gap, widened to $145 billion in the April-to-June period
from $140 billion in the prior three months.  Because the figures aren’t adjusted for inflation, an easing
in oil costs may prompt the shortfall to shrink this quarter.  Crude oil futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
averaged $102.3 per barrel in the April through June period, and
have slid to $90.90 so far in the third quarter. The average for
the first three months of 2011 was $94.60 per barrel.  The trade deficit may improve this quarter, recent figures
indicate. The gap in July shrank 13.1 percent, the most since
February 2009, according to government data released Sept. 8.
Exports climbed to a record in July, while imports declined.  U.S. income on overseas assets exceeded payments on U.S.
assets to foreigners, including wages and compensation, today’s
report showed.  Income Payments  That left a $61.1 billion surplus on income, the largest on
record, up from $52.7 billion in the prior quarter. U.S.
investments overseas generally yield more than the  Treasury
securities  that foreign investors prefer to buy, helping maintain
the income surplus.  Payments by the U.S. government to foreigners and other
private transfers abroad exceeded official inflows from overseas
by $34.2 billion from April through June, compared with $32.3
billion in the previous quarter.  The U.S. fiscal policy plans so far will do little to reduce
the country’s current account deficit, the  International Monetary
Fund  said yesterday, based on an analysis of fiscal tightening
over the past 30 years. Congress, after agreeing to cut $917
billion in spending over a decade, has yet to craft an additional
$1.5 trillion plan to trim its national debt.  “The relative lack of permanent consolidation measures in
the U.S. suggests that fiscal policy will contribute little to
lessening the U.S. external deficit,” the IMF said in its
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  