-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Sept. 13 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-09-15T12:37:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-sept-13-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  Overview:  With Tropical Storm Nate missing the mark in the Gulf
Coast region, a much quieter weather pattern prevailed over the
majority of the Lower 48 states last week. This gave some areas
a chance to dry out while some others could still use a lot of
help.  Mid-Atlantic and Northeast:  Early period rains were heavy in
places and brought flooding along with more in the way of
drought relief. Locales in eastern Virginia, Maryland, the West
Virginia Panhandle, southern and eastern  Pennsylvania  and south-
central New York state saw anywhere from 3 to 8 inches of
precipitation or more. This leads to the removal of all D0-D1 in
the region except for a few pockets of D0 in northern  New York 
and southeastern West Virginia.  Southeast and Delta:  Last week was unseasonably cool (5-10
degrees below normal), and all but the central Gulf Coast region
and southern  Florida  was dry as well. This led to some
improvement in southern Florida with a reduction of D0-D1, but
longer-term deficits and low lake levels (Lake Okeechobee in
particular) and surrounding ecosystem stress is still of concern
heading into the dry season. To the north, drought continues to
expand in South Carolina with a push of D1-D3 to the east and
north and into central North Carolina as well, which fell
between the rains of Hurricane Irene to the east and Tropical
Storm Lee to the west. This leads to expansion of D0 across
south-central  North Carolina , and some D1 has pushed more into
southwestern and south-central North Carolina along the South
Carolina border as well.  Midwest and Great Lakes:  Continued dryness over the past 30-60-
days continues to lead to some early off-season soil recharge
worries, although it is very much welcomed during the harvest
season. Some slight changes on the heels of Tropical Storm Lee
bring some more reduction of D0 in eastern and south-central
Kentucky along with some slight expansion in the northern tier
counties for the Bluegrass State.  To the north, an expansion of Severe Drought (D2) leads to a
band connecting  Indiana  with  Illinois  and Iowa to the west
across the heart of the Corn Belt. A slight expansion of D1 is
also noted in the same region. Although this won’t affect this
year’s corn crop, it has stressed beans and pastures and will
have us keeping an eye on the off-season soil moisture recharge
heading into next growing season.  The  Great Lakes  region continues to be plagued with above-normal
temperatures and lack of any significant precipitation. This
brings more D0 and D1 to  Michigan ’s Upper Peninsula along with
the introduction of D2 around the Marquette region. The same
pattern is responsible for the spread of D0 across northern
 Wisconsin  and led to the expansion of D0-D2 in the Arrowhead and
International Falls regions in northern  Minnesota . Southern
Minnesota also saw a degradation in their conditions with a push
of more D0 and D1 into those counties. The same holds true for
northern Iowa with a slight expansion of D0 in the northeast,
and some minor increase in D1 is noted in northwest  Iowa  as
well.  Northern and Central Plains:  Unseasonably warm temperatures and
dryness over the past couple of months continue to cause issues
in northeastern South Dakota, and this has brought an expansion
of D0 and D1 here and across the Minnesota border to the east
and south. Nebraska also sees their dry pattern continue,
bringing about a larger area of D0 in the state’s mid-section
and also an expansion and connection of the D0 between the
Nebraska Panhandle and northeastern Colorado.  Southern Plains:  Cooler weather was welcomed across most of
 Kansas  and down into  Texas , but it failed to bring much, if
anything, in the way of rainfall this past week. A slight push
northward of D0-D2 is depicted this week across northern Kansas,
and northeastern  Oklahoma  saw an increase from D2 to D3 as well.
Texas conditions continue to deteriorate what little they can
from abysmal, with expansion of D3-D4 noted in the southeast,
central, south-central, Big Bend region, and extreme south
around Brownsville. The lack of tropical activity (Nate fizzled
out and drifted into  Mexico  well to the south this week) and
better odds of a second consecutive La Nina winter only add fuel
to this well-fed and entrenched drought.  Four Corners Region:  A bit of respite for some and nothing for
others leads to a mixed bag of changes this week. Slow
improvement after some good September precipitation means D4 is
gone from southern  Colorado ’s San Luis Valley.  Arizona  saw some
better monsoonal activity across the central parts of the state,
but it wasn’t enough to improve the picture there this week. In
fact, those areas that didn’t see the rains are marked by
degradation this week as D1 and D2 spread north and west into
Maricopa, eastern La Paz, and southern Yavapai as well as a
slight push to the north in Gila county, which falls just south
of the better rains of last week.  Alaska ,  Hawaii , and Puerto Rico:  Conditions across Hawaii,
northern Alaska and Puerto Rico remain unchanged from last week.  Looking Ahead:  The next 5 days (through September 19) show a
good chance for cooler weather across all but southern Texas,
the northern Rockies and across Montana and Wyoming.
Precipitation is expected to be favorable across Colorado,
eastern New Mexico, the central Plains (eastern Kansas and
northern Oklahoma in particular) and into Missouri and the
middle Mississippi Valley. Some of the coastal regions in the
mid-Atlantic could also see some more in the way of the wet
stuff.  The CPC 6-10 day forecast (September 20-24) is calling for a
change in the short-term pattern with above-normal temperatures
likely across the majority of the country (including central
interior Alaska) except for the Southeast, which looks to be
below-normal during the period as does western Alaska.
Precipitation is more of a mixed bag with most of the West,
Great Plains, lower Mississippi Valley and western coastal
Alaska more likely to see below-normal readings while the
Northeast and southern Alaska are forecast to be above-normal.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  