-- 
Primary Global’s Fleishman Won’t Testify After U.S. Rests Case in Trial

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-16T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-rests-case-in-fleishman-fraud-conspiracy-trial-in-new-york.html
Former Primary Global Research LLC
executive James Fleishman, charged with participating in an
insider-trading scheme, won’t testify in his own defense at a
trial after prosecutors finished their case.  Fleishman, of  Santa Clara ,  California , is charged with two
counts of conspiracy for his role in what prosecutors said was a
scheme in which technology-company employees, working as
consultants for the company passed secret tips to hedge fund
managers.  “The government has rested and the defense has rested,”
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  told jurors
yesterday. “On Monday, we will have closing arguments and you
will get the case then.”  Rakoff said Fleishman’s lawyers may submit some written
evidence without calling witnesses to testify. After court,
 Ethan Balogh , Fleishman’s lawyer, said his client wouldn’t
testify. If convicted, Fleishman faces as long as 25 years in
prison.  The Mountain View, California-based firm, also known as
PGR, matches employees of public companies with fund managers
for a fee. Of the 15 people charged in the probe, 12 have
pleaded guilty. Fleishman and Winifred Jiau, a former PGR
consultant convicted in June, were the only ones who have gone
to trial.  Karunatilaka Sentenced  Also yesterday, former Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. manager Manosha Karunatilaka was sentenced by Rakoff to
18 months in prison for his role in the scheme involving PGR.  Karunatilaka, 37, of Marlborough,  Massachusetts , worked as
an account manager for Taiwan Semiconductor. He pleaded guilty
in May to accepting about $35,000 to pass material, nonpublic
information about the company’s orders while also working as a
consultant for PGR.  His lawyer, Brad Bailey, had asked Rakoff for a one-year
sentence, with six months to be served in prison and six months
of home confinement.  “I want to say how sorry I am for my conduct,”
Karunatilaka told Rakoff. “I am very sorry for my actions.”  An analyst at an unidentified New York-based hedge fund,
which used PGR’s services, spoke to Karunatilaka frequently from
2008 to 2010, prosecutors said in court papers. In May 2009,
acting on a recommendation from Karunatilaka to bet that Taiwan
Semiconductor shares would fall, the fund made a profit of about
$1.7 million, the U.S. said.  Ex-Samsung Manager  At Fleishman’s trial yesterday, Balogh cross-examined Suk-
Joo Hwang, a former Samsung Electronics Co. manager who said he
worked as a consultant for PGR for seven years. Hwang said he
sometimes passed confidential information to PGR clients.  Answering prosecutors’ questions on Sept. 14, Hwang said he
gave Fleishman and a fund manager confidential information about
Samsung’s shipment of liquid crystal display screens that it was
supplying to Apple Inc. Hwang said he disclosed the information
to Fleishman and the manager, who he identified as “Greg,”
during lunch at a  Mountain View  restaurant in December 2009,
four months before Apple released the iPad in the U.S.  Under questioning by Balogh, Hwang said that while he
agreed to be truthful in his discussions with investigators, he
didn’t initially tell them that he had continued to provide
information about Samsung to a fund manager after he had stopped
his consulting work with PGR.  Crossed Line  Hwang said he initially told  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  agents that he only spoke to analysts during calls
for PGR. Later, he told investigators he knew at the time that
he was speaking to fund managers on PGR calls.  “You crossed the line from time to time?” Balogh asked.  “Yes, I did” Hwang said.  Hwang testified after Rakoff granted him immunity from
prosecution for his testimony. Hwang, who met with prosecutors
and FBI agents beginning in October and as recently as August,
doesn’t have a cooperation agreement with the U.S. According to
the immunity order, Hwang can be prosecuted if the U.S. decides
he’s committed perjury while on the witness stand.  The case is U.S. v. Fleishman, 11-cr-00032, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  