-- 
U.S. Spy Satellite Chief Says Programs Now on Schedule, Cost

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-09-15T18:05:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-spy-satellite-chief-says-programs-now-on-schedule-cost-1-.html
The director of the U.S.  National
Reconnaissance Office  said today that the nation’s spy satellite
programs are now on schedule and cost.  NRO chief Bruce Carlson told reporters in Washington that
the agency’s major programs, which he said number between 10 and
15, are meeting performance objectives while proceeding on time
and within budget.  Two years ago, Carlson said, two-thirds of those programs
were graded either “yellow or red” in the Pentagon’s grading
system, indicating problems. “Today it’s green -- all of our
major system acquisitions. I think we’ve hit stride,” he said.  The NRO, which has a classified budget, manages development
and acquisition of the nation’s surveillance and reconnaissance
satellites. Congress and analysts have criticized the agency’s
handling of the programs, most notably a  Boeing Co. (BA)  satellite
program called the Future Imagery Architecture.  The FIA was to be the new network of as many as nine spy
satellites taking high-resolution all-weather pictures of
specific locations. Boeing in 1999 beat the incumbent satellite
maker,  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , for the job.  The government and Boeing have never disclosed the value of
the FIA program, which Lexington Institute defense analyst  Loren Thompson  said was in excess of $10 billion. It was cut short
after running billions of dollars over budget.  ‘Colossal Failure’  Carlson today called the FIA program “a colossal
failure.”  “The requirements were not managed or held to any strict
degree,” he said. “We turned all the management of that
program to the contractor -- a contractor who never built one of
those things before, and take what we’ve built before and make
it half the size. There are a dozen reasons why that was a
failure.”  Today “we have a pretty healthy constellation,” Carlson
said of the nation’s spy satellites. “We know how to manage
programs.”  He said in an interview that since the FIA episode, his
agency has made “significant changes” in award fees paid to
contractors.  “You don’t get an award fee for just getting to the end”
of a project, Carlson said. “You’re never in an NRO program
getting an award fee unless the satellite is on orbit and
working 100 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  