-- 
U.S. Agency Funding, Energy Rules, Oxigene, Options Floors: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-09-15T12:01:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-agency-funding-energy-rules-options-floors-compliance.html
A U.S. Senate panel approved a bill
that would increase funding for financial-industry regulators as
Democrats counter Republican efforts to reduce spending for
agencies implementing the Dodd-Frank Act.  The Securities and Exchange Commission would get an
additional $222 million for fiscal 2012 and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission another $37.7 million under a $21.7
billion draft spending bill approved yesterday by a Senate
appropriations subcommittee in a voice vote.  The SEC and CFTC, which are responsible for writing most of
the new rules required by the financial-regulation overhaul
enacted last year, have been caught in a tug-of-war between
Republicans pushing to cut federal spending and Democrats aiming
to give regulators funding to complete work on the rules. The
increases in the Senate bill would represent a 19 percent boost,
to $1.4 billion, for the SEC and an 18 percent rise, to $240
million, for the CFTC.  The  House of Representatives  in June passed a spending bill
that would cut the CFTC’s budget by 15 percent, or $30 million
from its current spending level, and is waiting to act on a
committee-approved bill that denied President Barack Obama’s
request to increase the SEC’s funding.  Under the law, the  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau  is
to be funded from a percentage of the  Federal Reserve ’s budget,
as much as $500 million a year, with the bureau’s director
deciding how much is needed.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Should Re-Propose Swap-Dealer Definition, O’Malia Says  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  should
redefine which companies are considered swaps dealers because
the drafted rules could put an unnecessary burden on commercial
energy firms, CFTC member  Scott O’Malia  said.  If such companies are labeled dealers under the new law,
they would face margin and clearing requirements that “could
devour firms’ balance sheets and force them to make difficult
decisions between making new investments and hedging their
current commercial exposure,” O’Malia said in a speech to a
 Futures Industry Association  conference in  New York  yesterday.
The rule, which is scheduled to be considered at a mid-October
meeting, should be re-proposed to have a more “risk-based
approach,” he said after the speech.  The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  are
drafting rules under the Dodd-Frank Act governing the $601
trillion swaps market, which includes trades conducted by
Citigroup Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Cargill Inc. Dodd-
Frank, the financial-overhaul enacted in July 2010, aims to
reduce risk and boost transparency after largely unregulated
trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  Companies defined as dealers and major swap participants
will face clearing rules that lead to requirements to post
margin, or collateral, to reduce risk in the trades.  The SEC has  scheduled  a Sept. 19 meeting to propose rules
governing registration of swap dealers and other major swap
participants for derivatives tied to securities.  For more, click here.  Special Section: Energy Market  EU Draft Financial Rules on Spot CO2 ‘Inadequate,’ IETA Says  The European Union’s draft proposal to classify spot carbon
contracts as financial instruments is a “hurried and inadequate
response” to the need of improving trading security, a carbon
traders’ association said.  The  International Emissions Trading Association  called on
the  European Commission  to “remove the classification of
allowances as financial instruments from the forthcoming Mifid
review proposal,” according to a letter published yesterday.  The commission opted to extend its Markets in Financial
Instruments Directive, or Mifid, to cover spot carbon deals
rather than design a tailor-made regime, according to the draft
proposal obtained by Bloomberg News earlier this week. The
European Commission Director-General for climate,  Jos Delbeke ,
rejected IETA’s criticism, saying the lobby group has “long
been calling for a genuine oversight regime” for the carbon
market.  While carbon futures are already subject to Mifid and the
Market Abuse Directive, known as MAD, contracts for spot
delivery, accounting for about 10 percent of trading, typically
aren’t seen as financial instruments and aren’t bound by the
same laws.  The commission has said it will present the draft to revise
Mifid around October.  For more, click here.  For commentary by Jos Delbeke, click here.  EU Toughens Oversight of Energy Trading to Fight Market Abuse  The European Union toughened oversight of energy trading in
a bid to prevent market manipulation and ensure fair prices.  The  European Parliament  voted to establish independent
monitoring of wholesale energy trading across the 27-nation EU.
The new legislation, to take effect in the coming months, will
cover contracts and derivatives for the supply and
transportation of natural gas and electricity.  The tighter rules will require companies to inform the EU’s
 Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators  about contract
information before trades can take place and ban transactions
that give false signals about supply and demand. National
penalties for breaches will have to reflect the damage done to
consumers.  The law will enter into force 20 days after its publication
in the EU’s  Official Journal .  EU Nations Back Rules to Buy CO2 Auctioning Infrastructure  European Union nations agreed rules to buy systems for the
sale of carbon-dioxide permits, paving the way for a tender to
buy an auction platform and appoint a monitor, the EU regulatory
arm said.  The EU Climate Change Committee, including representatives
of national governments, approved an agreement on the common
auction platform to sell carbon allowances for the next phase of
the EU emissions trading system, the commission said yesterday
in a statement in Brussels. The committee also backed the
agreement to appoint a monitor to observe all auctions.  “The commission aims to launch the calls for tender on its
own account and on behalf of the member states around the turn
of the year,” it said. “The endorsements keep the commission
and the Member States on track to start the auctions of emission
allowances for phase 3 in the second half of 2012.”  The EU, which has given away the majority of allowances
since starting its cap-and-trade program in 2005, will require
most emitters to purchase their permits in the eight-year period
that starts in 2013, often referred to as phase 3. While 24 of
the EU’s 27 nations agreed to have a common auctioning platform,
 Germany , Poland and the U.K. opted to develop national systems.  For more, click here.  Australia Emitters Can Choose CO2 Trade Over Tax, Cut Costs  Australian emitters may choose to opt into the nation’s
proposed carbon-trading program instead of facing increased fuel
taxes, which may cut their costs.  The opt-in will apply from July 1, 2013 to allow for
implementation two years before the start of the carbon market.
The greenhouse-gas curbing plan includes a tax for the three
years starting July next year, when prices are set at A$23
($23.51) a metric ton.  When emissions trading starts in July 2015, emitters can
buy domestic allowances or potentially cut costs by buying
Australian and international offset credits.  Compliance Action  Clearwire and Oxigene Are Latest U.S. Stocks to Be Halted  Oxigene Inc. (OXGN)  and  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  are the latest U.S. stocks
halted by circuit breakers implemented in June 2010.  The curbs were created after the 20-minute rout on May 6,
2010, erased $862 billion from the value of U.S. equities before
prices rebounded. New rules proposed by exchanges on April 5,
2011, would shift the market to a limit-up/limit-down system
that prevents shares from moving more than a certain amount.  Fewest Finance Executives Since 2008 Apply for FSA Approval  The U.K. Financial Services Authority has so far this year
received the fewest number of applicants for approval to serve
in senior finance posts since 2008.  Applications to be interviewed by the U.K. supervisor for
so-called approved person status, required to take a senior role
at a financial firm, have dropped 43 percent to 169, according
to a study by law firm  McGrigors LLP . Fifteen applications were
withdrawn following the FSA interview.  The London-based FSA is imposing stricter supervision after
being criticized for failing to prevent the U.K.’s worst
financial crisis since World War II in 2008.  Barroso Praises Greek Steps, Vows Euro-Bond Options Paper  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  called  Greece ’s
latest budget-austerity measures “significant” and pledged to
present options “soon” for joint bond sales by euro-area
nations, saying efforts to contain the debt crisis must be
stepped up.  The Greek government decided on Sept. 11 to cut one month’s
wages from all elected officials and impose an annual charge on
all property for two years in a bid to qualify for another
installment of international aid. The aim is to meet 2011 and
2012 targets for narrowing the  budget deficit  and to cover a
shortfall for this year that has been exacerbated by a deepening
recession, according to Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos.  Greece is seeking this month to win a sixth tranche of
loans under last year’s 110 billion-euro ($150 billion) aid
package from the euro area and  International Monetary Fund  and
to avoid a default. It also wants to benefit from a planned
second aid package of 159 billion euros approved by euro-area
leaders on July 21.  For more, click here.  SEC, Citigroup in Talks to Settle Mortgage-Bond Deal, WSJ Says  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is in
“advanced” talks with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to settle charges related
to a $1 billion mortgage-bond deal, the Wall Street Journal
reported, citing people familiar with the situation.  The settlement would be for more than $200 million, the
newspaper said, citing the people it didn’t identify.  The deal, called Class V Funding III, was a collateralized
debt obligation made up of other CDOs and backed by subprime
mortgages, the Journal said. It was created in 2007, the
newspaper said.  Officials are looking into whether Citigroup held any short
positions in the deal, the Journal said.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for Citigroup,
declined to comment on the report to Bloomberg News.  Courts  HSBC Dropped From Lawsuit Alleging Silver Futures Manipulation  HSBC Holdings PLC (HSBA)  is no longer a defendant in a lawsuit by
investors who claimed the bank and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
manipulated silver futures and options prices in violation of
U.S. antitrust law.  The investors said in consolidated class-action complaint
filed yesterday that they signed a tolling agreement with HSBC
and weren’t naming the bank as a defendant. Tolling agreements
are often used to stop statutes of limitation from running while
the parties discuss settlement or dismissal of a claim.  The investors claim that, starting in March 2008, the banks
colluded to suppress silver futures so that call options would
decline and put options would increase, according to the
complaint filed in federal court in  Manhattan .  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission began probing
allegations of price manipulation in the silver futures market
in September 2008.  A call to London-based HSBC seeking comment on the matter
after regular business hours yesterday wasn’t immediately
returned.  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for New York-based
JPMorgan Chase, declined to comment.  The case is In re Commodity Exchange Inc. Silver Futures
and Options Trading Litigation, 11-cv-2213, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  U.S. Options Floors May Disappear, Goldman’s Hohman Says  U.S. options exchanges are likely to shift away from
running trading floors where people gather to make markets
because of competition from electronic trading, Todd Hohman, a
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  executive said yesterday.  “We’ll probably see the end of the floors” within five
years, he said.  Hohman, a partner at the firm, made the remarks at a
conference in New York sponsored by the  Futures Industry
Association  and Options Industry Council.  Exchanges that used to process all trades through market
makers and brokers on their floors now also match buy and sell
orders electronically after rivals promising faster executions
drew away orders. Four of the nine U.S. equity derivatives
markets -- the Chicago Board Options Exchange, NYSE Amex
Options, and Nasdaq OMX PHLX -- have floors and also let
investors place transactions electronically. Most exchanges in
 Europe  are primarily or fully electronic.  The Goldman Sachs executive said floors cater to traders
seeking to execute prearranged transactions or large orders. The
Securities and Exchange Commission’s approval in February of a
so-called qualified contingent cross proposed by the
 International Securities Exchange  may be a sign that the
regulator is preparing “to allow more option printing and
crossing,” he said.  Hohman is in charge of volatility strategies at a global
quantitative trading group at Goldman Sachs.  NYSE Amex won permission in June from the SEC to sell an
almost 53 percent stake to seven brokers, which agreed to send
orders to the platform in exchange. New York-based Goldman Sachs
owns 14.95 percent of the NYSE Options joint venture.  Warsaw Exchange’s Sobolewski Seeks to Boost Debt Trading  Ludwik Sobolewski, chief executive officer of the Warsaw
Stock Exchange, talked about prospects for additional growth of
the exchange this year, the outlook for the listing of
additional foreign companies and proposed changes to Polish law
as part of an effort to boost the bourse’s corporate debt-
trading platform.  A proposal to let banks trade bonds without using a broker
was sent to the  Finance Ministry  in July. Sobolewski spoke with
Bloomberg’s Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw on Sept. 13.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  China Names Chen Wenhui Vice Chairman of China CIRC  China named Chen Wenhui as vice chairman of  China Insurance
Regulatory Commission , replacing Wei Yingning, according to a
statement on the Chinese government website yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 