-- 
U.S. Beats Russia 13-6 to Rebound From Loss in Opening World Cup Game

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-15T14:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-beats-russia-13-6-to-rebound-from-loss-in-opening-world-cup-game.html
The U.S. beat Russia 13-6 to secure
its third win in Rugby  World Cup  history and hand the Bears a
loss in their debut.  Mike Petri scored a first-half try in yesterday’s only game
in New Plymouth,  New Zealand , as the Americans restricted the
Russians to two penalties in the lowest-scoring game in the
World Cup in 20 years. Chris Wyles kicked a conversion and two
penalties for the U.S.  The Americans rebounded from a 22-10 loss to Ireland four
days previously. The 19 points scored yesterday was the least in
the tournament since Australia beat England 12-6 in the 1991
final. The Eagles’ previous two wins at rugby’s four-yearly
championship came against  Japan  at the 1987 and 2003 editions.  “It’s an awesome feeling,” U.S. captain Todd Clever.
“I’m proud of the boys for sticking through. We made it tough
on ourselves but the crowd helped us get through that one.”  The U.S. and  Russia  had targeted the matchup of the nations
ranked  18th and 19th  by the International Rugby Board as their
best chance of a victory at this year’s World Cup. Two-time
world champion Australia, eighth-ranked Ireland and No. 11 Italy
are the other teams in Pool C.  “This match with Russia had been marked on our calendar
for years, so we were prepared for it,” Petri said. “It was a
really big game to win and it kept us alive in the tournament.”  While the U.S. had a four-day turnaround between games
after losing to Ireland in New Plymouth, Russia was the last of
the 20 competing nations to begin its campaign.  ‘Show Our Best’  “We tried to show our best, it’s our first game,” Russian
lock Alexander Voytov said in a televised interview. “It was a
tough game, it’s very unlucky that we lost.”  Russia, which qualified for its first World Cup by
finishing second in the 2008-10 European Nations Cup, next plays
Italy in Nelson on Sept. 20. The U.S. has seven days off before
taking on Pool C leader  Australia  in Wellington.  Australia has five points, with Ireland and the U.S. on
four, Russia one and Italy none.  Tonight’s only game is in Pool A as host New Zealand meets
Japan in Hamilton. The All Blacks defeated Tonga 41-10 in their
opening match, while Japan was beaten 47-21 by  France .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London on 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 