-- 
U.S. ‘Long Way’ From Default Risk, Treasuries Still Safest, S&P’s Tan Says

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-09-15T04:13:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-is-still-a-long-way-from-risk-of-defaulting-s-p-analyst-tan-says.html
The U.S. is a “long way” from
risk of default and Treasuries are still the safest dollar
assets, said Kim Eng Tan, senior director for sovereign-debt
ratings at  Standard & Poor’s .  “We are still a long way from the U.S. coming down to a
level where  default risk  is a concern,” Tan said today at a
conference in Singapore. The U.S. debt market “remains the
largest and most-liquid market in the world.”  S&P, a New York-based unit of McGraw-Hill Cos., downgraded
the U.S.’s AAA credit rating for the first time on Aug. 5,
lowering the ranking to AA+. The company kept the outlook on the
rating at “negative,” saying it was becoming less confident
that Congress will end Bush-era tax cuts or tackle entitlements.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
top rankings on the U.S.  Treasuries have surged and the dollar has strengthened
since the rating cut as concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will
worsen and the U.S. recovery will slow spurred demand for the
safest assets. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, a
benchmark for everything from home mortgages to corporate bonds,
slid to a record 1.8770 percent on Sept. 12, and the greenback
has gained against all but the yen among its major counterparts
since Aug. 5.  A double-dip recession in developed economies could hurt
countries in the Asia-Pacific region, S&P said separately today
in a release accompanying a series of reports this week. China
can maintain its growth record if it steps up its program of
economic reforms, the release said.  The U.S. is in a unique position because it’s the issuer of
the world’s reserve currency in the dollar, Tan said today. Even
AAA-rated assets are not risk free, he said.  “If you are trying to look for another benchmark, you have
to look for companies or other issuers that issue AAA,” he
said. “The fact that they get AAA is that they have a tiny
amount of debt. I’m not too concerned that we’ll run out of
benchmarks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Annells at 
 jannells@bloomberg.net  