-- 
U.S. Consumer Confidence Holds at Year’s Second-Lowest Level, Index Shows

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-09-15T13:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-consumer-confidence-holds-at-year-s-second-lowest-level-index-shows.html
U.S. consumer confidence held last
week at the second-lowest level of 2011 as the most households
in three years said it was a bad time to spend.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was minus 49.3 in the
period to Sept. 11, near this year’s low of minus 49.4 reached
in May. The buying climate gauge slumped to the lowest level
since October 2008.  Nine of every 10 Americans polled had a negative view on
the economy as the job market stagnated and wages failed to keep
up with inflation, one reason why companies like Best Buy Co.
are seeing sales slump. A drop in  consumer spending , which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, would raise the
risk the recovery that began two years ago will falter.  “The crisis of confidence among consumers in the economy
and policy makers’ ability to alter the direction of the economy
has diminished chances of a sustained recovery,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in  New York .  Other reports today showed industrial production and
consumer prices climbed in August and jobless claims jumped last
week.  Output at factories, mines and utilities climbed 0.2
percent after a 0.9 percent gain in July, figures from the
Federal Reserve showed, signaling manufacturing will support the
world’s largest economy. Factory production, which makes up 75
percent of the total, advanced 0.5 percent.  The cost of living rose 0.4 percent, more than forecast,
after a 0.5 percent gain in July, according to a report from the
Labor Department. Costs minus fuel and food rose 0.2 percent for
a second month.  More Claims  Applications for  unemployment benefits  climbed by 11,000 to
428,000 in the week ended Sept. 10 that included the Labor Day
holiday, another Labor Department report showed. The number of
claims was the highest since the end of June, underscoring the
risk of further weakness in the labor market.  Stocks advanced for a fourth straight day on optimism that
 Europe  is working to tame its debt crisis. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rose 0.8 percent to 1,198.25 at 9:40 a.m. in New York.
 Treasury securities  fell, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-
year note up to 2.09 percent from 1.99 percent late yesterday.  The consumer comfort gauge, which began December 1985, has
been stuck below minus 40 -- the level associated with
recessions or their aftermath -- since the end of February. It
has averaged minus 45.4 this year, compared with minus 45.7 for
2010 and minus 47.9 in 2009, the year the last recession ended,
today’s report showed.  Spending Outlook  A measure of the buying climate plunged to minus 60.7 last
week from minus 53.5. Eight of every 10 households polled said
it was a bad time to buy needed items, the most since November
2008, when share prices dove following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Those figures aim “an icy blast at retailers for whom mid-
September marks the run-up to Christmas,”  Gary Langer ,
president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New York, which
compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a statement. Retail
sales unexpectedly stagnated in August, figures from the
Commerce Department showed yesterday.  The index of Americans’ views of the state of the economy
edged up to minus 86.6 last week from minus 88.7, today’s report
showed. For the first time in seven weeks, fewer than half, 49
percent, said the economy was in “poor” shape. The gauge of
personal finances climbed to minus 0.7 from minus 5.8.  Among groups, the confidence gauge for white Americans
dropped last week to the lowest level since February 2010. Those
without a high school education saw sentiment slump to a two-
year low.  Highest Earners  For those earning more than $100,000 a year, the index was
little changed at minus 18.1, the 18th consecutive week of
negative readings that in part reflect stock market losses.  Sentiment among Republicans improved last week more than
that of Democrats, widening the gap between the two factions to
18 points, the biggest so far this year.  A stagnant labor market is putting pressure on President
 Barack Obama , lawmakers and the  Federal Reserve  to spur job
growth. Obama last week introduced legislation to boost
payrolls.  A majority of Americans don’t believe Obama’s $447 billion
jobs plan will help lower the  unemployment rate , skepticism he
must overcome as he presses Congress for action and positions
himself for re-election, according to a Bloomberg poll.  Rating Obama  The downbeat assessment of the American Jobs Act reflects a
growing and broad sense of dissatisfaction with the president.
Americans disapprove of his handling of the economy by 62
percent to 33 percent, a Bloomberg National Poll conducted Sept.
9-12 showed. The disapproval number represents a nine-point
increase from six months ago.  Best Buy, the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, this week cut its full-year earnings forecast. The
Richfield, Minnesota-based chain also reported a 30 percent
decline in second-quarter profit.  “The consumer is making very measured choices,” Chief
Executive Officer Brian Dunn said in a Sept. 13 telephone
interview. “I don’t think it’s a year where someone is going to
buy a TV and a tablet and a new smartphone and go to
Disneyland.”  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  