-- 
U.S. House Passes Limit Labor Board Powers After Boeing Case

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-09-15T19:19:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-house-votes-to-limit-labor-relations-board-s-powers-after-boeing-case.html
The U.S. House of Representatives
passed legislation curbing the powers of the  National Labor
Relations Board , a move spurred by an April action against
 Boeing Co. (BA)  that has become a presidential campaign issue.  The Republican-led House  voted  238-186 today for the bill,
which would bar the board from ordering companies to close, move
or open factories when labor laws are violated. The NLRB general
counsel said Boeing should start a second assembly line in
Washington state after finding the company built a non-union
 South Carolina  factory to retaliate for labor strikes.  “If the president does not hold the labor board
accountable for its job-destroying agenda, Congress will,” said
Representative  John Kline , a Minnesota Republican and chairman
of the committee that sponsored the measure. “It is time we
forced the NLRB to change course.”  Republicans are seeking to weaken the board, which resolves
labor disputes, after the NLRB’s April filing in response to a
complaint from the International Association of Machinists,
representing Boeing’s workers in the Seattle area. The NLRB case
has been criticized by South Carolina’s governor and members of
the state’s congressional delegation.  “It’s an assault on business, it’s an assault on jobs,”
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , the former
Massachusetts governor, said Sept. 12 after visiting Boeing’s
new plant in North Charleston, South Carolina. President  Barack Obama  has put “labor stooges on the NLRB to pursue a political
payback strategy,” he said.  Eight Democrats  The House bill, which would apply to pending cases such as
Boeing’s, was backed by eight Democrats from states that have
right-to-work laws, which let employees opt out of joining a
union. Seven Republicans voted against the bill. The Obama
administration in July said it opposed the legislation because
it would undermine enforcement of U.S. labor laws.  The bill would have to pass the Democratic-led Senate
before going to Obama. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat, said in May that Republicans criticizing the
board were seeking to intimidate an independent agency.
Republicans asked Reid yesterday to take up the House bill, and
Senator Lindsay Graham of South Carolina said the Boeing dispute
will become an issue in next year’s campaigns.  The measure is an important first step to restore balance
between labor-union and employer rights, the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, the largest U.S. business group, said today in a
statement. The  National Association of Manufacturers  urged the
Senate to take up the legislation “as soon as possible.”  ‘Cut and Run’  “The NLRB’s actions are having a chilling impact on  job
creation  and causing a great deal of uncertainty for
manufacturers,” association President Jay Timmons said in a
statement.  Union advocacy groups said the legislation will hurt
workers and let employers ignore  labor laws .  “The House has rammed through a bill that would leave
employees with no protection when companies decide to unlawfully
cut and run,” Kimberly Freeman Brown, director of American
Rights at Work, a union advocacy group based in Washington, said
in a statement.  Companies will be able to ship job overseas at the expense
of U.S. workers, Mary Kay Henry, president of the 2.2 million-
member  Service Employees International Union , said in a
statement.  “All this bill would do is make it easier for them to
eliminate American jobs,” she said.  ‘Baseless’ Political Attacks  Lafe Solomon, acting general counsel for the board, said
the decision to file a complaint was based on “a careful
investigation” of Boeing’s actions. An administrative judge in
 Seattle  has been hearing arguments in the case since June.  “These continuing political attacks are baseless and
unprecedented and take the focus away from where it belongs --
the ongoing trial in Seattle,” Solomon said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  Democrats said during today’s debate that the bill would
take away important remedies needed to prevent companies from
moving jobs out of the country in a quest to cut labor costs.  “If a company wants to bust a union by outsourcing its
work to  China , this bill permits it,” said Representative
 George Miller , a California Democrat. “Workers would be
powerless to support outsourcing.”  Solomon said on April 20 that Boeing violated workers’
rights by deciding to build a plant for its Dreamliner in South
Carolina. Boeing said the new factory would improve production
stability after five strikes from 1975 through 2008 by the
Seattle-area workforce, according to the filing.  It’s illegal in the U.S. for employers to punish workers
for joining unions or striking. Boeing has denied such
motivation and is fighting the NLRB action.  The South Carolina factory, which opened in July, is the
first commercial plant that Boeing has built outside the Seattle
area. South Carolina is among 22 right-to-work states.  The bill is H.R. 2587.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in  Washington  at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  