-- 
U.S. September Philadelphia Business Outlook Report (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-15T14:05:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-september-philadelphia-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Philadelphia area manufacturing activity from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia .  Sep-11  Responses to the Business Outlook Survey this month suggest that
regional manufacturing activity is continuing to contract, but
declines are less widespread than in August. The survey’s broad
indicators for activity, shipments, and new orders all remained
negative for the second consecutive month.  Responding firms,
however, indicated that employment was slightly higher this
month.  The broadest indicator of future activity remained
positive and rebounded this month, suggesting that recent
declines are not expected to continue over the next six months.  Indicators Suggest Continuing Weakness  The survey’s broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the
diffusion index of current activity, increased from a very low
reading of -30.7 in August to -17.5 in September.  The index has
been negative in three of the last four months. The current new
orders index paralleled the general activity index, increasing
16 points and remaining negative. The current shipments index
fell 9 points.  Firms’ responses suggest a slight improvement in hiring this
month compared with August. The current employment index
increased 11 points, after recording its first negative reading
in 12 months in August. Over 22 percent of the firms reported an
increase in employment, but 16 percent reported a decrease. The
percentage of firms reporting a shorter workweek (23 percent)
remained greater than the percentage reporting a longer one (9
percent).  Prices for Manufactured Goods Are Steady  The percentage of firms reporting increases in prices for their
own manufactured goods (18 percent) was about the same as the
percentage reporting price decreases (17 percent).  The prices
received index, which was -9.0 in August (its first negative
reading in nine months), increased to just above zero this month.
The majority of firms (62 percent) reported steady prices for
their own products in September.  Increasing costs were somewhat more widespread this month
compared to last month. Nearly 29 percent of firms reported
paying higher prices for inputs this month. Only 6 percent
reported lower prices.  The prices paid diffusion index
increased 10 points, its first one-month increase in seven
months.  Six-Month Indicators Rebound  Indicators for future activity remained positive and
strengthened this month. The broadest indicators for future
activity improved notably, increasing 20 points and nearly
reversing the 22-point decline in August.  The indexes for
future new orders and shipments also improved, increasing 5
points and 13 points, respectively. The index for future
employment increased a modest 3 points. The percentage of firms
expecting to increase employment over the next six months (25
percent) is higher than the percentage expecting employment to
decrease (13 percent).  For this month’s special questions, firms were asked to estimate
their total production growth for the third quarter and expected
growth for the upcoming fourth quarter.  Firms were evenly
divided in their estimates for third quarter growth: The
percentage of firms expecting to achieve positive production
growth was the same as the percentage expecting declines (41
percent). The average production growth rate for the reporting
group was just 0.3 percent.  With regard to the upcoming fourth
quarter, the percentage of firms expecting a deceleration in the
rate of their production growth (49 percent) was greater than
the percentage expecting an acceleration in growth (38 percent).  Summary  According to respondents to the September Business Outlook
Survey, the region’s manufacturing sector contracted for the
second consecutive month. The survey’s indicators suggest an
overall decline in demand for manufactured goods in September,
although the breadth of decreases was not as great as in August.
On balance, employment was slightly higher at reporting firms
this month.  The broadest indicators for future growth improved
notably this month, suggesting that firms expect a recovery in
activity over the next six months. Responses to special
questions, however, suggest that the firms expect further
weakening in their rate of production growth during the fourth
quarter.  Special Questions (September 2011)  1) How will your firm’s total production for the third quarter
compare with that of the second quarter?  %
Lower                        41.1
No Change                    17.8
Higher                       41.1
Average increase: 0.3%*  2) For the upcoming fourth quarter, what growth do you expect
for production at your plant compared with third quarter?  %             subtotals
Significant deceleration   8.1
Some deceleration          21.6
Slight deceleration        18.9               48.7  No change                  10.8               10.8  Slight acceleration        16.2
Some acceleration          17.6
Significant acceleration    4.1               37.8
NR                          2.7                2.7  Total                     100.0              100.0  *Firms provided estimates within specific numerical ranges.  Notes: (1) Items may not add to 100 percent because of omission
by respondents. (2) All data are seasonally adjusted. (3)
Diffusion indexes represent the percentage of respondents
indicating an increase minus the percentage indicating a
decrease. (4) Survey data reflect information received through
September 13, 2011. 