-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Copper Rises on Easing Debt Concerns

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-09-15T12:18:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-copper-rises-on-easing-debt-concerns.html
The following are the top stories
on metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Copper Rises on Reduced Debt-Crisis Concern, Strikes at Mines  Copper rose in  London  on reduced concern about Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis and on strikes at Peruvian and Indonesian
mines.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Oil Tanker Newlead Avra Doesn’t Load in Libya, Owner Says (1)  The oil tanker Newlead Avra, which had been traveling to
Mellitah in western Libya, didn’t load a cargo as intended and
is now sailing to Cyprus, the vessel’s owner said.  One Equity Is ‘Matchmaker’ to Wed Asian With European Chemicals  One Equity Partners, which sold a German chemicals business
for $1.5 billion this year, will be among the buyout firms that
stand to gain as Asian companies pursue European takeovers over
the next five years, according to Utz-Hellmuth Felcht, a partner
at the JP Morgan-owned unit.  NTPC Said to Likely Select Hitachi, Bharat Heavy for Turbines  NTPC Ltd.,  India ’s biggest power producer, plans to select
Hitachi Ltd. and Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. to supply as many
as seven of nine turbines for generation projects, two people
familiar with the matter said. The utility will choose between
Toshiba Corp. and Larsen & Toubro Ltd. for the remaining orders,
they said.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Goldman Sticks With Oil, Copper Forecasts as Risks Climb (3)  Brent crude and copper may rally as global economic growth
led by emerging markets remains adequate to drive an expansion
in raw-materials demand, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said, sticking
with forecasts for price gains.  Rusal in Talks With Italian Government to Restart Alumina Plant  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer, is
in talks with the Italian government to restart the EurAllumina
refinery in Sardinia.  MINING:  Rio Tinto  to Invest Further $833 Million in Pilbara Expansion  Rio Tinto said $833 million will be invested in power and
fuel supply projects in the Pilbara as part of its move to
increase iron ore production capacity in Western Australia,
according to a regulatory filing.  Freeport Weighs Grasberg Strike Impact on Output, Shipments (1)  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. is assessing the impact
on production and deliveries at its Grasberg copper and gold
mine in Indonesia after the union said 70 percent of workers
started a one-month strike last night.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Retreats as European Support for  Greece  Slows Haven Demand  Gold declined for a second day after German and French
leaders expressed support for Greece to remain in the euro area
and amid speculation  China  may help the region’s most-indebted
nations.  AGRICULTURE:  Palm Oil Advances as Leaders’ Pledge Cuts Euro Debt Concerns  Palm oil gained for a second day after French and German
leaders said they’re certain Greece will stay in the euro zone,
easing concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis may spread and boosting
the outlook for commodities demand.  North Korea Food Crisis Worsens as Prices Jump, Aid Vanishes (1)  North Korea’s food shortages are worsening, with a drop in
aid and a jump in food prices prompting a “rapid” rise in
malnourished children and putting millions of others at risk,
two United Nations agencies warned.  EU Potato Output to Rise, Adding Competition for U.S., USDA Says  European Union production of consumption potatoes is
forecast to rise this year, which will probably intensify
competition for U.S. exports in the 2011-12 marketing year, the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  said.  India’s Cooking Oil Imports Drop as Buyers Await Lower Tax (1)  Vegetable oil imports by India, the biggest user after
China, fell for the first time in four months in August as
buyers deferred purchases before  Indonesia  implemented a cut in
export tax.  Wheat Drops as  Egypt  Buys From Russia, Shunning U.S., EU Grain  Wheat futures fell after Egypt, the world’s biggest
importer of the grain, bought more Russian wheat and again
shunned U.S. and European Union inventories.  Palm Oil Advances as Leaders’ Pledge Cuts Euro Debt Concerns  Palm oil gained, reversing a loss, after French and German
leaders said they’re certain Greece will stay in the euro zone,
easing concern that Europe’s debt crisis may spread and boosting
the outlook for commodities demand.  Sugar Rises as Rains May Hurt Asian Crops; Robusta Coffee Falls  Sugar rose in London, rebounding from yesterday’s drop, on
concern rains may hurt crops in  Asia  and dry weather might curb
output in top global producer  Brazil . Robusta coffee slid.  SHIPPING:  Oil Tanker Newlead Avra Fails to Load Libyan Cargo, Owner Says  The oil tanker Newlead Avra, which had been traveling to
the port of Mellitah in western  Libya , failed to load a cargo
and is now heading to Cyprus, the vessel’s owner said.  ECONOMIES:  China Willing to Buy Debt-Crisis Nations’ Bonds, Zhang Says (1)  China is willing to buy euro bonds from countries involved
in the sovereign debt crisis “within its capacity,”  Zhang
Xiaoqiang , vice chairman of the nation’s top economic planning
agency, said today.  Asia-Pacific Economies Face Stiff Test, S&P Says in Report  A potential double-dip recession among developed economies
could have “tough knock-on effects” for Asia-Pacific nations,
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said today, citing a series
of articles it published this week.  Merchants Bank President Says China Safe From Wave of Defaults  Chinese regulators have taken steps that will keep the
world’s second-largest economy safe from widespread bad loans,
China Merchants Bank Co. President Ma Weihua said.  Auction Yields Top Forecasts as Cash Crunch Looms: China Credit  Investors are demanding higher yields than traders are
predicting at auctions of Chinese bonds on speculation the
government’s efforts to fight inflation will stoke a cash
crunch.  China Willing to Buy Bonds From Debt-Crisis Nations, Zhang Says  China is willing to buy bonds from nations involved in the
sovereign debt crisis, National Development and Reform
Commission Vice Chairman Zhang Xiaoqiang said in an interview
with the media in Dalian yesterday.  Greece Wedded to Euro as Treaties Provide No Way to Opt Out  “Everything must be done to keep the euro zone together.”
That was  Chancellor Angela Merkel  speaking on German radio on
Sept. 13 as she denied reports that  Germany  was preparing for
Greece’s exit from the monetary union.  Sarkozy, Merkel Say Greece’s Future Is in the Euro Region (1)  French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel said they are “convinced” Greece will stay in
the euro area as they faced international calls to step up
efforts in fighting the region’s debt crisis.  SNB Stresses Resolve on Franc as Interest Rate Stays at Zero (3)  The Swiss central bank said it’s ready to take “further
measures” if needed to stem gains in the franc against the euro
as it left its benchmark interest rate at zero to ward off the
threat of a recession.  EU Cuts Euro-Area 2nd-Half Growth Forecasts on Debt Crisis (2)  The European Union cut its growth forecasts for the second
half to reflect a worsening outlook on the sovereign-debt crisis
and warned the euro-area economy may come “close to standstill
at year-end.”  Merchants Bank’s Ma Says China Is Safe From Wave of Defaults (1)  Chinese regulators have taken steps to curb risks from the
nation’s record lending boom and a repeat of the bad debts that
led to a $650 billion bailout last decade is “impossible,”
China Merchants Bank Co. said.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks, Euro Gain on Greek Backing; UBS Slides on Trading Loss  Stocks gained for a third day, the euro strengthened and
Greece’s bond yields fell after German and French leaders
reiterated support for the country. UBS AG tumbled after
reporting a $2 billion trading loss.  Euro Rises 2nd Day as Sarkozy, Merkel Pledge to Support Greece  The euro strengthened for a second day against the yen and
the dollar after French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German
Chancellor Angela Merkel said they are “convinced” Greece will
stay in the currency union.  N.Z. Dollar Slumps as Central Bank Holds Rates; Aussie Declines  New Zealand ’s dollar fell against all of its 16 major
counterparts after Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard held
 interest rates  at a record low, citing a risk that the global
economy will slow “sharply.”  European Stocks Gain as Backing for Greece Outweighs UBS Loss  European stocks climbed for a third day as assurance from
Germany and  France  that Greece will remain a member of the euro
outweighed a $2 billion trading loss at UBS AG. Asian shares and
U.S. index futures gained.  Asia Stocks Rise as Germany, France Say Greece to Remain in Euro  Asian stocks climbed, with the regional benchmark index
rebounding from its lowest level in more than a year, after
French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor Angela
Merkel said Greece will stay in the euro zone.  Oil Rises a Second Day in London on European Support for Greece  Oil rose for a second day in London after German and French
leaders said they’re certain Greece will remain in the euro
zone, tempering concern that the region’s debt crisis will
damage fuel consumption.  Gasoline Poised to Test $2.4489 Next Week: Technical Analysis  Gasoline may fall to $2.4489 a gallon next week after
closing below the 50-day and 100-day moving averages for the
fourth time yesterday, according to a technical analysis by T&K
Futures & Options.  Sarkozy, Cameron Visit Libya to Support Post-Qaddafi Rulers (2)  French President Nicolas Sarkozy and U.K. Prime Minister
David Cameron visited Libya today, the first foreign leaders to
do so since they helped opposition forces oust  Muammar Qaddafi 
last month.  SPORTS:  Everton May Be Forced to Sell Fellaini, Mail Reports: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  U.S. Beats Russia 13-6 to Rebound From Loss in Opening Game  The U.S. beat Russia 13-6 in today’s only Rugby  World Cup 
match to secure its third win in tournament history and hand the
Bears a loss in their debut.  Wallabies Recall O’Connor, Botha Recovers: World Cup Roundup  The following is a roundup of stories from the 2011 Rugby
World Cup in New Zealand.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  