-- 
Mortgage Rates Fall to Lowest on Record, Freddie Mac Says

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-09-15T14:17:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-mortgage-rates-decline-to-record-low-with-30-year-at-4-09-.html
U.S. mortgage rates fell for a
second week to the lowest on  Freddie Mac  records as a slowing
economy and concerns that  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening
drove investors to the relative safety of Treasury bonds.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan dropped to 4.09
percent in the week ended today from 4.12 percent, Freddie Mac
said in a statement today. That’s the lowest in the McLean,
Virginia-based company’s records dating back to 1971. The
average 15-year rate fell to 3.30 percent from 3.33 percent.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries, a benchmark for consumer
loans including mortgages, are near all-time lows amid signs
that the U.S. economic recovery has stalled and the euro region
is struggling to contain its debt burden. Low borrowing costs
have done little to improve the housing market as foreclosures
mount and the  unemployment rate  remains above 9 percent.  Falling rates are “helping a little but not as much as you
would expect, given how low they are,” Celia Chen, a housing
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania , said in a phone interview. “The central problem
right now is that job growth has slowed to almost zero.”  No new jobs were added in August, the Labor Department said
Sept. 2. The unemployment rate remained at 9.1 percent for a
second straight month.  Default notices sent to delinquent homeowners surged 33
percent in August from the previous month, according to
RealtyTrac Inc. Total foreclosure filings, which also include
auction and home-seizure notices, rose 7 percent from a four-
year low in July, the Irvine, California-based data company said
today.  Lowest Since 1950s  Data from the  National Bureau of Economic Research 
measuring Federal Housing Administration loans indicate that
long-term borrowing costs are the lowest since the 1950s,
according to Chad Wandler, a spokesman for Freddie Mac.  Mortgage applications rose for the first time in four weeks
as rate declines encouraged purchases and refinancing, according
to the  Mortgage Bankers Association . A gauge of refinancing
climbed 6 percent in the week ended Sept. 9, while the purchase
index gained 7 percent, the Washington-based group said
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  