-- 
U.S. Army $1 Billion Afghan Trucking Plan Aims to End ‘Racket’

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-15T20:31:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-army-1-billion-afghan-trucking-plan-aims-to-end-racket-.html
The U.S. Army tomorrow will begin
using a $1 billion trucking contract in  Afghanistan  with new
safeguards designed to prevent the funneling of millions of
dollars in protection money to warlords.  The adoption of the new National Afghan Trucking contract,
between the Army and 20 local trucking companies, will be used
by the U.S. military to transport supplies through the war-torn
country. It comes more than a year after a congressional
investigation uncovered what its chief author described as a
“vast protection racket” in which contractors were forced to
pay warlords and insurgents to obtain safe passage.  The new contract expands from 8 to 20 the number of prime
contractors used, ensures greater transparency of
subcontractors, establishes a code of ethics, and provides
greater oversight and vetting of all companies, said Kim Denver,
the Army’s deputy assistant secretary for procurement.  While applauding those efforts, members of a House
subcommittee today said the military is still not doing enough
to combat corruption in Afghanistan contracting.  “The Defense Department has to get this right,” said
Representative Jason Chaffetz of  Utah , the Republican chairman
of the House Oversight and Government Reform subcommittee on
national security, at a public hearing. “We’re talking about
billions and billions and billions of dollars.”  The Commission on Wartime Contracting, a Pentagon advisory
panel, last month found that more than $30 billion in U.S.-
funded contracts in Iraq and Afghanistan were lost to waste,
fraud and abuse.  ‘Tip of the Iceberg’  “I fear that these reports are only the tip of the
iceberg,” said Representative John Tierney of  Massachusetts ,
the subcommittee’s most senior Democrat. “The extortion of
international contractors is a booming industry,” he said.  Tierney said he was particularly concerned about the
refusal of the Defense Department to bar an Afghan private
security contractor known as the Watan Group from any future
U.S. business. He has accused the contractor of paying bribes to
local Afghan officials.  Gary Motsek, who oversees wartime contracting as deputy
assistant secretary of defense for program support, said the
Army reached an “administrative agreement” with Watan that
will prevent it from providing convoy security for three years.  Tierney said the company was already out of the trucking
business, “so that wasn’t much of a punishment.”  Instead of doing its own investigation of Watan Group,
Tierney said, “the Army basically cut a deal.”  Increasing Penalties  Tierney also said penalties may need to be increased to
discourage the diversion of funds to warlords and insurgents. He
said contractors face a penalty of only $25,000 for not
delivering a full truckload of oil, even though the load is
valued at $40,000.  “The penalty may not be offsetting the actual street
value,” agreed Brigadier General Stephen Townsend, who advises
the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on Afghanistan and
Pakistan issues. The military is working to adjust the penalty,
he said.  Tierney said he is drafting legislation to overhaul war-
zone contracting and introduced a bill to establish a permanent
special inspector general for overseas contingency operations.  Motsek told the panel that corruption in Afghanistan will
never be eliminated, though it can be reduced.  “This is a country that’s based on doing things this way
for 3,000 years and we’re not going to change it overnight,” he
said.  Motsek, in an interview, said he wouldn’t disclose the
names of the 20 prime contractors in the new contract because of
security concerns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  