-- 
U.S. August Consumer Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-09-15T12:32:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-august-consumer-price-index-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the Aug.
consumer prices from the Labor Department.  Consumer Price Index - August 2011  The Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U)
increased 0.4 percent in August on a seasonally adjusted
basis, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported today.
Over the last 12 months, the all items index increased 3.8
percent before seasonal adjustment.  The seasonally adjusted increase in the all items index was
broad-based, with continuing increases in the indexes for
gasoline, food, shelter, and apparel. The gasoline index rose
for the 12th time in the last 14 months and led to a 1.2
percent increase in the energy index, while the food index
rose 0.5 percent, its largest increase since March.  The index for all items less food and energy increased 0.2
percent in August, the same increase as the previous month.
Shelter and apparel were the biggest contributors, though the
indexes for most of its major components posted increases,
including used cars and trucks, medical care, household
furnishings and operations, recreation, tobacco, and personal
care. The new vehicles index, unchanged for the second month
in a row, was an exception.  The 12-month change in the all items index edged up to 3.8
percent after holding at 3.6 percent for three months, while
the 12-month change for all items less food and energy reached
2.0 percent for the first time since November 2008. The energy
index has risen 18.4 percent over the last year, while the
food index has increased 4.6 percent.  Consumer Price Index  Data for August 2011  Food  The food index rose 0.5 percent in August after rising 0.4
percent in July. The food at home index repeated its July
increase of 0.6 percent, with five of the six major grocery
store food groups rising. The only exception was the index for
nonalcoholic beverages, which declined slightly in August
after rising in June and July. The cereals and bakery products
index rose the most, increasing 1.1 percent, followed by a 0.9
percent increase in the index for dairy and related products.
The index for other food at home rose 0.8 percent as the index
for sugar and sweets rose sharply. The indexes for fruits and
vegetables and for meats, poultry, fish, and eggs rose 0.6
percent and 0.4 percent, respectively. The food at home index
has now risen 6.0 percent over the past 12 months, with all
six groups rising at least 4.0 percent.  The index for food
away from home advanced 0.4 percent in August, its largest
increase since October 2008, and has risen 2.7 percent over
the last year.  Energy  The energy index, which rose 2.8 percent in July, increased
1.2 percent in August. The gasoline index rose 1.9 percent in
August after a 4.7 percent increase in July. (Before seasonal
adjustment, gasoline prices fell 0.5 percent in August.) Over
the past 12 months, the gasoline index has increased 32.4
percent. The household energy index rose modestly in August,
increasing 0.4 percent. The indexes for electricity and for
 fuel oil  both declined slightly, but the index for natural gas
increased 2.2 percent in August after declining in July. Over
the past year, the household energy index has increased 2.7
percent. The fuel oil index has risen 35.4 percent over that
period, while the electricity index has risen 1.9 percent and
the index for natural gas has declined, falling 2.0 percent.  All items less food and energy  The index for all items less food and energy increased 0.2
percent in August, the fifth month in a row that the increase
has either been 0.2 percent or 0.3 percent. Similarly, the
shelter index rose 0.2 percent in August, its fourth increase
in a row of at least that size. The index for rent increased
0.4 percent in August, its largest increase since June 2008.
The index for owners' equivalent rent rose 0.2 percent, and
the index for lodging away from home turned down after recent
increases, falling 1.8 percent. The index for apparel
continued its string of substantial increases, rising 1.1
percent in August. The used cars and trucks index also
continued to rise, increasing 0.9 percent. The medical care
index increased 0.2 percent for the fourth month in a row,
with medical care commodities rising 0.1 percent and medical
care services increasing 0.3 percent. Also increasing were the
indexes for household furnishings and operations (0.3
percent), airline fares (1.1 percent), recreation (0.1
percent), personal care (0.2 percent), and tobacco (0.5
percent). The index for new vehicles was unchanged for the
second month in a row after a series of increases.  The index for all items less food and energy has risen 2.0
percent in the last 12 months. This 12-month change has been
trending up since reaching a low of 0.6 percent for the 12
months ending October 2010. The 12-month change in the shelter
index, which was negative through much of 2010, reached 1.6
percent in August. The 12-month change in the apparel index
has now reached 4.2 percent after being negative as recently
as March of this year. Major transportation indexes have risen
strongly over the last 12 months, including used cars and
trucks (5.4 percent), new vehicles (3.8 percent) and airline
fares (9.5 percent).  Not seasonally adjusted CPI measures  The Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U)
increased 3.8 percent over the last 12 months to an index
level of 226.545 (1982-84=100). For the month, the index
increased 0.3 percent prior to seasonal adjustment.  The Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical
Workers (CPI-W) increased 4.3 percent over the last 12 months
to an index level of 223.326 (1982-84=100). For the month, the
index increased 0.3 percent prior to seasonal adjustment.  The Chained Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (C-
CPI-U) increased 3.6 percent over the last 12 months. For the
month, the index increased 0.3 percent on a not seasonally
adjusted basis. Please note that the indexes for the post-2009
period are subject to revision.  The Consumer Price Index for September 2011 is scheduled to be
released on Wednesday, October 19, 2011, at 8:30 a.m. (EDT).  Brief Explanation of the CPI  The Consumer Price Index (CPI) is a measure of the average
change in prices over time of goods and services purchased by
households.  The Bureau of Labor Statistics publishes CPIs for
two population groups: (1) the CPI for Urban Wage Earners and
Clerical Workers (CPI-W), which covers households of wage
earners and clerical workers that comprise approximately 32
percent of the total population and (2) the CPI for All Urban
Consumers (CPI-U) and the Chained CPI for All Urban Consumers
(C-CPI-U), which cover approximately 87 percent of the total
population and include in addition to wage earners and
clerical worker households, groups such as professional,
managerial, and technical workers, the self-employed, short-
term workers, the unemployed, and retirees and others not in
the labor force.  The CPIs are based on prices of food, clothing, shelter, and
fuels, transportation fares, charges for doctors' and
dentists' services, drugs, and other goods and services that
people buy for day-to-day living.  Prices are collected each
month in 87 urban areas across the country from about 4,000
housing units and approximately 26,000 retail establishments-
department stores, supermarkets, hospitals, filling stations,
and other types of stores and service establishments.  All
taxes directly associated with the purchase and use of items
are included in the index.  Prices of fuels and a few other
items are obtained every month in all 87 locations.  Prices of
most other commodities and services are collected every month
in the three largest geographic areas and every other month in
other areas. Prices of most goods and services are obtained by
personal visits or telephone calls of the Bureau's trained
representatives.  In calculating the index, price changes for the various items
in each location are averaged together with weights, which
represent their importance in the spending of the appropriate
population group. Local data are then combined to obtain a
U.S. city average.  For the CPI-U and CPI-W separate indexes
are also published by size of city, by region of the country,
for cross-classifications of regions and population-size
classes, and for 27 local areas.  Area indexes do not measure
differences in the level of prices among cities; they only
measure the average change in prices for each area since the
base period.  For the C-CPI-U data are issued only at the
national level. It is important to note that the CPI-U and CPI-
W are considered final when released, but the C-CPI-U is
issued in preliminary form and subject to two annual
revisions.  The index measures price change from a designed reference
date.  For the CPI-U and the CPI-W the reference base is 1982-
84 equals 100. The reference base for the C-CPI-U is December
1999 equals 100.  An increase of 16.5 percent from the
reference base, for example, is shown as 116.500.  This change
can also be expressed in dollars as follows:  the price of a
base period market basket of goods and services in the CPI has
risen from $10 in 1982-84 to $11.65.  Calculating Index Changes  Movements of the indexes from one month to another are usually
expressed as percent changes rather than changes in index
points, because index point changes are affected by the level
of the index in relation to its base period while percent
changes are not.  The example below illustrates the
computation of index point and percent changes.  Percent changes for 3-month and 6-month periods are expressed
as annual rates and are computed according to the standard
formula for compound growth rates.  These data indicate what
the percent change would be if the current rate were
maintained for a 12-month period.  Index Point Change  CPI
 202.416 Less previous index  201.8 Equals index point change  0.616  Percent Change  Index point difference  0.616 Divided by the previous index  201.8 Equals  0.003 Results multiplied by one hundred 0.003x100 Equals
percent change  0.3  Regions Defined  The states in the four regions shown in Tables 3 and 6 are
listed below.  The Northeast-- Connecticut , Maine,  Massachusetts , New
Hampshire,  New York ,  New Jersey ,  Pennsylvania ,  Rhode Island ,
and  Vermont . The Midwest-- Illinois , Indiana, Iowa, Kansas,
 Michigan , Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio,
 South Dakota , and Wisconsin. The South--Alabama, Arkansas,
Delaware,  Florida , Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland,
Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina,
Tennessee,  Texas ,  Virginia , West Virginia, and the  District of
Columbia . The West--Alaska, Arizona,  California , Colorado,
Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah,
Washington, and Wyoming.  A Note on Seasonally Adjusted and Unadjusted Data  Because price data are used for different purposes by
different groups, the Bureau of Labor Statistics publishes
seasonally adjusted as well as unadjusted changes each month.  For analyzing general price trends in the economy, seasonally
adjusted changes are usually preferred since they eliminate
the effect of changes that normally occur at the same time and
in about the same magnitude every year--such as price
movements resulting from changing climatic conditions,
production cycles, model changeovers, holidays, and sales.  The unadjusted data are of primary interest to consumers
concerned about the prices they actually pay.  Unadjusted data
also are used extensively for escalation purposes.  Many
collective bargaining contract agreements and pension plans,
for example, tie compensation changes to the Consumer Price
Index before adjustment for seasonal variation.  Seasonal factors used in computing the seasonally adjusted
indexes are derived by the X-12-ARIMA Seasonal Adjustment
Method.  Seasonally adjusted indexes and seasonal factors are
computed annually.  Each year, the last 5 years of seasonally
adjusted data are revised.  Data from January 2006 through
December 2010 were replaced in January 2011.  Exceptions to
the usual revision schedule were: the updated seasonal data at
the end of 1977 replaced data from 1967 through 1977; and, in
January 2002, dependently seasonally adjusted series were
revised for January 1987-December 2001 as a result of a change
in the aggregation weights for dependently adjusted series.
For further information, please see "Aggregation of
Dependently Adjusted Seasonally Adjusted Series," in the
October 2001 issue of the CPI Detailed Report.  Effective with the publication of data from January 2006
through December 2010 in January 2011, the Video and audio
series and the  Information technology , hardware and services
series were changed from independently adjusted to dependently
adjusted.  This resulted in an increase in the number of
seasonal components used in deriving seasonal movement of the
All items and 54 other lower level aggregations, from 73 for
the publication of January 1998 through December 2005 data to
82 for the publication of seasonally adjusted data for January
2006 and later.  Each year the seasonal status of every series
is reevaluated based upon certain statistical criteria. If any
of the 82 components change their seasonal adjustment status
from seasonally adjusted to not seasonally adjusted, not
seasonally adjusted data will be used in the aggregation of
the dependent series for the last 5 years, but the seasonally
adjusted indexes before that period will not be changed.
Note: 37 of the 82 components are not seasonally adjusted for
2011.  Seasonally adjusted data, including the all items index
levels, are subject to revision for up to five years after
their original release.  For this reason, BLS advises against
the use of these data in escalation agreements.  Effective with the calculation of the seasonal factors for
1990, the Bureau of Labor Statistics has used an enhanced
seasonal adjustment procedure called Intervention Analysis
Seasonal Adjustment for some CPI series.  Intervention
Analysis Seasonal Adjustment allows for better estimates of
seasonally adjusted data.  Extreme values and/or sharp
movements which might distort the seasonal pattern are
estimated and removed from the data prior to calculation of
seasonal factors.  Beginning with the calculation of seasonal
factors for 1996, X-12-ARIMA software was used for
Intervention Analysis Seasonal Adjustment.  For the seasonal factors introduced in January 2011, BLS
adjusted 29 series using Intervention Analysis Seasonal
Adjustment, including selected food and beverage items, motor
fuels, electricity and vehicles.  For example, this procedure
was used for the Motor fuel series to offset the effects of
events such as damage to oil refineries from Hurricane
Katrina.  For a complete list of Intervention Analysis Seasonal
Adjustment series and explanations, please refer to the
article "Intervention Analysis Seasonal Adjustment", located
on our website at  http://www.bls.gov/cpi/cpisapage.htm .  For additional information on seasonal adjustment in the CPI,
please write to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, Division of
Consumer Prices and Price Indexes,  Washington , DC 20212 or
contact David Levin at (202) 691-6968, or by e-mail at
 Levin.David@bls.gov .  If you have general questions about the
CPI, please call our information staff at (202) 691-7000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  