-- 
Unemployment Claims in U.S. Unexpectedly Rise to Highest Level Since June

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-15T12:53:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-jobless-claims-unexpectedly-rise-to-428-000-highest-level-since-june.html
Applications for U.S. unemployment
benefits unexpectedly rose last week to the highest level since
the end of June, underscoring the risk of further weakness in
the labor market.  Jobless claims climbed by 11,000 to 428,000 in the week
ended Sept. 10 that included the Labor Day holiday, figures from
the Labor Department showed today in Washington. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a drop in claims to
411,000, according to the median forecast.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Cisco Systems Inc. are among
companies planning to keep trimming payrolls, raising the risk
that  consumer spending  will stagnate. Signs the labor market is
struggling to gain traction puts more pressure on President
 Barack Obama , lawmakers and the  Federal Reserve  for additional
steps to spur the economy.  “Job growth is moving sideways, which is problematic,”
said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in
 West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “We really need the labor
market to improve to generate the wages to support consumer
spending.”  Weeks that include federal holidays typically show a
decrease in unadjusted claims because there’s one less day to
file. During the latest week, filings failed to drop as much as
expected, resulting in a higher figure after seasonal
adjustment, a Labor Department spokesman said as the data were
released. He also said there wasn’t any effect on claims from
 Hurricane Irene .  Consumer Prices  The cost of living in the U.S. rose more than forecast in
August as consumers paid more for food, energy and housing, the
Labor Department also said. The consumer-price index increased
0.4 percent after a 0.5 percent gain in July. Costs minus fuel
and food rose 0.2 percent for a second month.  A Federal Reserve Bank of New York report showed manufacturing
in the region contracted at a faster pace in September. The Federal
Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic index dropped to
minus 8.8, the weakest reading since November, from minus 7.7 in
August. Readings less than zero signal companies in the so-
called Empire State Index, which covers  New York , northern  New
Jersey , and southern  Connecticut , are cutting back.  Stock-index futures pared gains after the figures. The
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in December
rose 0.2 percent to 1,184.5 at 8:48 a.m. in New York after
climbing 0.7 percent earlier.  Jobless benefits applications were projected to fall from
the 414,000 initially reported for the prior week, according to
the median forecast of 50 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Estimates ranged from 400,000 to 440,000.  Four-Week Average  Today’s data showed the four-week moving average, a less-
volatile measure than the weekly figures, climbed to 419,500
last week from 415,500.  The number of people continuing to receive jobless benefits
decreased by 12,000 in the week ended Sept. 3 to 3.73 million.
The continuing claims figure does not include the number of
Americans receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments rose by about 10,000
to 3.61 million in the week ended Aug. 27.  The  unemployment rate  among people eligible for benefits
held at 3 percent in the week ended Sept. 3, today’s report
showed.  States, Territories  Thirty-nine states and territories reported an increase in
claims, while 14 reported a decline. These data are reported
with a one-week lag.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  Total payrolls were unchanged last month, the weakest
reading since September 2010, and the unemployment rate held at
9.1 percent, the Labor Department said Sept. 2.  Obama announced his jobs plan before a joint session of
Congress on Sept. 8, calling for an extension of a payroll-tax
break for Americans and unemployment assistance. He also pushed
for a payroll tax break for small businesses, an increase in
infrastructure spending and more aid for cash-strapped state
governments.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender, will eliminate
30,000 jobs in the next few years as part of Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ’s plan to bolster profit and the
firm’s stock. The reductions equal about 10 percent of the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based company.  “We don’t have to be the biggest company out there, we
have to be the best,” Moynihan said Sept. 12 at a New York
investor conference. “We can get out of things we don’t need to
do, make the company leaner, more straightforward, more
driven.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  