-- 
U.S. Credit Swaps Fall as ECB, Fed Coordinate to Ease Funding

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-09-15T21:35:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-credit-swaps-fall-as-ecb-fed-coordinate-funding-correct-.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk dropped for a third day, as the  European Central
Bank  said that it will coordinate with the Federal Reserve to
lend euro-area banks dollars, seeking to stem concerns that
 Europe ’s debt crisis is escalating.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, fell 4.1 basis points to a mid-
price of 124.7 basis points as of 5:06 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index has decreased from 135.9 basis points on Sept.
12, its highest level since July 2009, after German and French
leaders expressed support for Greece to remain in the euro
monetary union and the ECB said today it coordinated with the
 Federal Reserve , the Bank of  England , the Bank of  Japan  and the
 Swiss National Bank  to extend three-month loans to euro-area
banks in an effort to ensure they have enough cash for the rest
of the year. The swaps measure declined even as U.S. jobless
claims unexpectedly rose.  “The big news driver certainly proved to be the ECB
announcement, as following North American economic releases this
morning, the markets appeared poised to sell off,” said James Parascandola, head of credit derivative trading at MF Global
Holdings Ltd. in New York.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings decreased 10 basis points to 174, and
the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 27.4
basis points to 714, Markit prices show.  Index Roll  The measures typically fall as investor confidence improve
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. credit index rose from 96.3 at the end of July on
signs the economic recovery is faltering and amid concern  Greece 
would default. A new version of the index will be created on
Sept. 20 that will replace infrequently traded contracts with
more active names, which may lead to the index dropping further.  “Given August’s performance, the impending roll and global
monetary policy intervention seemingly at the ready, we’re in
the midst of a technical move tighter,” said Parascandola.  The index fell to the lowest level in a week even as Labor
Department data today showed jobless claims rose more than the
median economist forecast to the highest level since June. Data
showing manufacturing in the Philadelphia region contracted for
the second straight month and the Fed Bank of  New York ’s general
economic index falling, added to disappointing retail sales this
week, said Parascandola.  The Fed Bank of New York’s general economic index dropped
to minus 8.8, the weakest reading since November, from minus 7.7
in August. Economists projected an increase to minus 4, based on
the median of 54 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  