-- 
U.S. Political Process Is Weaker Than AAA Nation’s, S&P Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-09-15T22:05:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-political-process-is-weaker-than-aaa-nation-s-s-p-says.html
Standard & Poor’s , the rating
company that stripped the U.S. of its top credit grade last
month, said the nation’s political process contrasts
“unfavorably and increasingly” with top-rated countries.  Lawmakers in AAA rated  Canada ,  France ,  Germany  and the U.K.
acted more quickly than the U.S. to cut their deficits following
the financial crisis in 2008, S&P said today in a  report .  John Chambers , a managing director of S&P, said today at a conference
that there is a one-in-three chance of another U.S. debt
downgrade, though a change may not occur until late 2012 or
2013.  “We view U.S. political performance in recent years as
evidence of a weaker ability to implement reforms,”
S&P said in the report. “The debate over fiscal policy appears
to us the most intractable of current political debates.”  The U.S. was cut one step to AA+ with a ``negative'' outlook
on Aug. 5 by S&P, citing deteriorating confidence in lawmakers’
willingness to tackle the deficit. Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings affirmed their AAA credit ratings for the U.S. on
Aug. 2, the day President  Barack Obama  signed a bill that ended
a debt-ceiling impasse that had pushed the country to the edge
of default.  Political Scores  A nation’s political score is assessed according to the
“effectiveness, stability and predictability of policy making
and political institutions,” the report said. “Transparency
and accountability of institutions, data and processes” are a
secondary factor.  Australia ,  Hong Kong  and the Isle of Man are
among the 18 countries with a top rating, according to a July
report.  “We view U.S. political performance in recent years, and
in 2011 in particular, as not conforming with some of these
attributes, including proactive policymaking and an ability and
willingness to implement reforms to ensure sustainable public
finances over the long term,” S&P said today in the report.
“U.S. fiscal settings have deteriorated steadily for a
decade.”  Lawmakers agreed on Aug. 2 to raise the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling and put in place a plan to enforce $2.4
trillion in spending reductions over the next 10 years, less
than the $4 trillion S&P had said it preferred. Even with the
downgrade, demand for Treasuries surged as investors saw few
alternatives amid concern global growth is slowing and  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis is spreading.  Rating Outlook  “If there were another downgrade, it would probably be
because something has happened with the budget control act, that
it has somehow been watered down” or “the fiscal committee
doesn’t deliver the goods,” Chambers, chairman of S&P’s
sovereign-debt rating committee, said today at the Bloomberg
Markets 50 Summit in New York, tied to the magazine’s ranking of
the 50 most influential leaders in global markets, finance,
business and government. Fiscal restraint “would enable us to
see the ratings stabilize,” he said.  House Republicans  vowed earlier this year to support an
increase in the $14.3 trillion debt limit only if was
accompanied by spending cuts and didn’t raise taxes.  Among countries rated AAA, “there should be no genuine
question within policy makers’ circles of the paramount
importance of honoring the government’s market debt obligations
in full, on time, and unconditionally,” S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  