-- 
U.S. Commercial Paper Declines for Ninth Week, Fed Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-09-15T19:34:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-commercial-paper-declines-for-ninth-week-fed-says-1-.html
Corporate borrowing with short-term
IOUs fell for the ninth straight week, the longest stretch since
January, amid signs that the  U.S. economy  is slowing and
European debt strains.  Seasonally adjusted U.S. commercial paper decreased $22.6
billion in the week ended Sept. 14 to $1.043 trillion, the
 Federal Reserve  said today on its website. That’s the lowest
level since the market reached $1.042 trillion in the period
ended Feb. 16, according to Fed data compiled by Bloomberg. IOUs
issued by non-financial companies declined $5.5 billion to
$171.4 billion, the Fed said.  Short-term corporate borrowings, which companies use for
everyday activities such as payrolls and rent, are declining as
U.S. manufacturing slows and unemployment holds above 9 percent.
Contraction in financial commercial paper adds to evidence that
European banks have experienced funding difficulties. The
 European Central Bank  said today it would provide dollar loans
to euro-area banks.  “Much of the weakness in commercial paper has been in
foreign issuers,” said Raymond Stone, who tracks U.S.
money markets as managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research
Associates in Princeton,  New Jersey . “Issuers are finding less-
receptive markets and they’re turning to banks” for short-term
loans, he said. “We’re going to continue to see an unwinding of
foreign financial commercial paper.”  French Banks  Foreign financial commercial paper fell by $600 million.
Investors are watching this category closely because of the
difficulties of some French banks in obtaining dollar funding.  The European Central Bank will provide dollars to banks in
a series of three-month loans as the region’s debt crisis limits
market access to the U.S. currency. The Frankfurt-based ECB said
it will coordinate with the Federal Reserve and other central
banks to conduct three separate dollar liquidity operations to
ensure banks have enough of the currency through the end of the
year.  Non-financial commercial paper hit a recent high of $187.7
billion the week ending July 20 and has fallen six out of the
last eight weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  