-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise as ECB Offers Loans to Banks to Tame Crisis

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-15T20:51:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-as-ubs-announces-2-billion-trading-loss.html
U.S. stocks rose for a fourth day
as the  European Central Bank  and international policy makers
coordinated to lend dollars to banks to tame the credit crisis,
offsetting concern spurred by signs unemployment is worsening.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  added more
than 3 percent as the ECB coordinated with the  Federal Reserve 
and other central banks to provide liquidity to European
lenders.  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  advanced at
least 2 percent, pacing gains in companies most-tied to the
economy.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  tumbled 19 percent as the online film-
rental service cut its forecast for U.S. subscribers.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1.7 percent to
1,209.11 at 4 p.m. New York time. The benchmark gauge has
rallied 4.8 percent in four days. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  added 186.45 points, or 1.7 percent, to 11,433.18.  “The central bank coordinated action is rather
significant,” Brian Jacobsen, chief portfolio strategist at San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo Funds Management, which oversees
more than $400 billion, said in a telephone interview. “Given
their willingness to provide liquidity to European banks, it
probably signals that the Fed is going to provide additional
liquidity” for the  U.S. economy .  Stocks rallied as the ECB said it coordinated with the Fed,
the Bank of England, the Bank of  Japan  and the Swiss National
Bank to extend three-month loans to euro-area banks in an effort
to ensure they have enough cash for the rest of the year. The
announcement added to optimism after French and German leaders
yesterday confirmed they will support Greece’s continued
participation in the shared euro currency.  Operation Twist  The Fed may take measures at its meeting next week to
bolster economic growth. Economists including Stephen Stanley at
Pierpont Securities LLC and Michael Feroli at JPMorgan say the
Fed will probably decide to lengthen the maturity of its $2.65
trillion securities portfolio at the Sept. 20-21 meeting. This
tactic, dubbed “Operation Twist” because it bends long-term
yields lower, won’t cut borrowing costs enough to have a big
impact on economic growth, they said.  Concern the global economy was slipping back into a
recession amid a worsening European-debt crisis triggered an 18
percent plunge in the  S&P 500  between the end of April and Aug.
8. Since then, it has rebounded 8 percent.  “It’s nice to see that the risk factors coming out of
Europe are abating,” Michael Mullaney, who helps manage $9.5
billion at Fiduciary Trust in Boston, said in a telephone
interview. “The U.S. doesn’t have a liquidity problem, it has a
demand problem. While Europe has a demand problem too, it has a
pressing liquidity problem. That addresses the liquidity issue
that would be threatening the European banking system.”  Industrial Production  In the U.S., a report showed industrial production
unexpectedly rose in August. That helped temper concerns about
other data pointing to a weakening recovery. Stock futures
trimmed gains earlier as applications for U.S. unemployment
benefits rose last week to the highest level since the end of
June. Separate reports showed that manufacturing in the New York
region contracted at a faster pace, while manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region shrank for a second straight month.  All 10 groups in the S&P 500 rose as gains were led by
financial, energy and industrial shares. The Morgan Stanley
Cyclical Index added 2.2 percent. The Dow Jones Transportation
Average, a proxy for the economy, advanced 1.4 percent. The KBW
Bank Index rose 2.3 percent.  Whitney Tilson , co-founder of hedge fund T2 Partners LLC,
said  Citigroup Inc. (C)  is cheap and that he’s adding high-quality
U.S. financial stocks to his portfolio.  ‘Good Bank, Bad Bank’  “It’s a good bank, bad bank,” Tilson said of Citigroup at
today’s Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in New York. “The good bank
is a pretty good global franchise. If they don’t need another
bailout that kills the equity, which we don’t think is likely,
it’s really cheap.”  Tilson’s New York-based hedge fund added shares of  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  last month, he said. He
also owns and still likes  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , his largest
position, and JPMorgan, he said.  Tilson’s bullishness on U.S. banks doesn’t extend to
Europe. “There isn’t a unified government,” he said. “As
dysfunctional as our government is, at least it’s one Treasury,
one government, one Fed that can deal with this and that makes
us very wary of Europe.”  Citigroup gained 4.4 percent to $28.59. Bank of America
rallied 4 percent, the most in the Dow, to $7.33. JPMorgan
advanced 3.1 percent to $33.81.  Unauthorized Trading  U.S. shares of  UBS AG (UBSN)  plunged 10 percent to $11.41.
Switzerland’s biggest bank said it may be unprofitable in the
third quarter after a $2 billion loss from unauthorized trading
at its investment bank. London police arrested Kweku Adoboli, a
UBS employee, in connection with the loss, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter who declined to be identified. City
of London police and UBS declined to identify the man.  All 30 stocks in the Dow gained. GE, the world’s largest
maker of jet engines, jumped 2.8 percent to $16.08. Chevron
advanced 2 percent to $99.26.  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  climbed 5.7 percent to $7.92. The
supermarket chain was rated “buy” in new coverage by Deutsche
Bank AG, which said “credit fears are overblown” and
“sentiment was just too negative relative to ongoing underlying
changes” at the company.  Netflix tumbled 19 percent, the most since April 2008, to
$169.25. The company, which unveiled new prices in July, will
have 2.2 million domestic DVD-only subscribers at the end of
this quarter, compared with its previous projection of 3
million. The company also said it will have 9.8 million
streaming-only users after previously predicting 10 million.  Lower Forecast  Goldman Sachs’s  David Kostin  slashed his year-end forecast
for the S&P 500 by 11 percent to 1,250, citing continued
uncertainty in the global markets due to Europe’s debt crisis.  Kostin, the New York-based equity strategist at the firm,
had previously predicted the benchmark equity index would climb
to 1,400. This is the second time Kostin has lowered his S&P 500
forecast within a two-month period. He reduced his forecast from
1,450 on Aug. 5.  “Investors believe a nontrivial probability exists that
the crisis will trigger a global financial dislocation similar
to 2008,” Kostin wrote in a note dated yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  