-- 
U.S. September Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-09-15T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-september-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that
conditions for New York manufacturers worsened for a fourth
consecutive month in September. The general business conditions
index inched down one point, to -8.8. The new orders index held
steady at -8.0, while the shipments index dropped sixteen points
to -12.9. The inventories index, negative for a third month in a
row, fell to -12.0 -- a sign that inventories continued to
decline. After dropping significantly over the summer, the
indexes for both prices paid and prices received climbed several
points, suggesting that the pace of price increases picked up.
Employment indexes were below zero, indicating that employment
levels and hours worked fell over the month. Indexes for the
six-month outlook were somewhat better than last month and
generally suggested that business activity was expected to
improve in the months ahead, but optimism remained well below
its levels of earlier this year.  In a series of supplementary questions, manufacturers were
asked about past and expected changes in their selling prices;
parallel questions had been asked in September 2010 and in
earlier years.  Respondents to the current survey reported that
their selling prices had risen by 1.4 percent, on average,
during the past twelve months and were expected to rise by an
average of 1.0 percent over the next year.  In last September’s
survey, selling prices were expected to increase by 1.8 percent.  Business Activity Worsens for a Fourth Month  Business conditions continued to worsen at a modest pace
for New York manufacturers in September. The general business
conditions index, negative for a fourth consecutive month, edged
down a point to -8.8. Nineteen percent of respondents said that
conditions had improved in September, while 28 percent said that
conditions had deteriorated. The new orders index was also
negative for a fourth consecutive month, and remained steady at
-8.0. The shipments index fell sixteen points to -12.9, and the
unfilled orders index remained below zero at -7.6. The delivery
time index was little changed at -1.1. The inventories index
dropped four points to -12.0, suggesting that inventory levels
declined.  Employment Falls  The indexes for both prices paid and prices received moved
up in September after retreating sharply over the prior three
months -- evidence that price increases picked up their pace.
After falling more than forty points between May and August, the
prices paid index rose four points to 32.6. The prices received
index rose seven points, to 8.7. Employment indexes were
negative, indicating that both employment levels and hours
worked fell. The index for number of employees declined nine
points to -5.4, and the average workweek index held steady at -
2.2.  Six-Month Outlook Is Positive, but Level of Optimism Low  Future indexes were generally positive, suggesting that
respondents expect business activity to improve in the months
ahead, but optimism was well below levels observed earlier this
year. The future general business conditions index advanced four
points to 13.0, a low level by historical standards but still an
indication that conditions are expected to improve. The future
new orders and shipments indexes rose to similar levels. The
future prices paid index climbed eleven points to 53.3, and the
future prices received index rose eight points to 22.8. The
index for expected number of employees fell to zero, and the
future average workweek fell to -6.5 -- both signs that
employment is not expected to rise in coming months. The capital
expenditures index was little changed at 9.8, and the technology
spending index rose five points to 7.6. 