-- 
U.S. House Republicans Embrace Obama Push to Ease SEC Rules

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-09-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/u-s-house-republicans-embrace-obama-push-to-ease-sec-rules.html
House Republicans  have embraced at
least one proposal in President Barack Obama’s jobs  package :
changing the rules to make it easier for closely held companies
to raise money without going public.  Republicans have already lined up with  hearings  and bills
to support expanding exemptions from U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission rules for companies trying to raise capital,
and two lawmakers introduced legislation yesterday.  The idea was contained in a single line from the
president’s speech to Congress last week, where he pledged “to
cut away the red tape that prevents too many rapidly-growing
start-up companies from raising capital and going public.”  “While there may be disagreements about the broader Obama
proposals, one thing we can all agree on is the need to
alleviate the burden of onerous SEC regulations for those small
businesses looking to access capital,” said House Majority Whip
 Kevin McCarthy .  Currently, closely held companies are restricted from
offering more than $5 million in securities or advertising such
securities unless they register the offering with the SEC.  The legislative proposals include: exempting the practice
of “crowdfunding” or soliciting small investments from the
public, often over the Internet or through social media; raising
the size of exempted securities offerings to $50 million from $5
million; and allowing companies to advertise the offering.  Crowdfunding  Representative  Patrick McHenry , a North Carolina
Republican, released a bill yesterday that would permit
crowdfunding to finance new businesses by permitting companies
to accept and pool donations up to a certain level. McHenry,
chairman of a House Oversight and Government Reform
subcommittee, held a hearing on the issue yesterday.  It was not clear whether or when the proposals might be
voted on in the full House, or whether the Democrat-led Senate
would consider them as well.  The new attention comes as smaller firms struggle to raise
money amid regulatory and economic pressures. Secondary markets,
where private shares of companies are bought and sold, have
surged as the 2002  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  and last year’s Dodd-Frank
Act have made accessing public markets more expensive.  The White House, in a blog post the night of Obama’s
speech, laid out the initiatives, which include raising the cap
on public offerings to $50 million from the current level of $5
million and easing restrictions on crowdfunding.  Representative David Schweikert, an Arizona Republican, has
introduced a bipartisan  measure  to do that -- increase the
registration exemption over a 12-month period. The Financial
Services Committee has  approved  the bill.  ‘Jobs Program’  Representative Anna Eshoo, a California Democrat who has
pushed for the change in order to spur the venture capital
market in her district, last year called the proposal “a jobs
program, with good jobs that are focused on the cutting edge of
innovation, creating new products, new markets and additional
growth for our economy.”  Senator Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat, this week
introduced a similar proposal with Pennsylvania Republican  Pat Toomey . Tester and Toomey, who both serve on the Senate Banking
Committee, said they will push the measure in their chamber.  In addition, McCarthy, a California Republican, has
introduced a bill that would permit “general solicitations” of
accredited investors.  The SEC is able to make some of the changes without
legislation and has embarked on a broad review, ordered by
Chairman  Mary Schapiro , to find ways to streamline and update
rules on registration and reporting.  Investor Protections  Meredith Cross, director of the SEC’s division of
corporation finance, said in  testimony  prepared for McHenry’s
hearing that the agency will “continue to consider and, if
appropriate, implement changes to its existing rules to reduce
regulatory burdens while maintaining important investor
protections.” She noted that registration exemptions “present
an enticing opportunity for the unscrupulous.”  The SEC also is facing pressure from Republican
Representative  Darrell Issa  of  California , chairman of the
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, to loosen the
shareholder cap for closely held firms like Facebook Inc. and
Twitter Inc. Schweikert and Issa, along with Representative Jim Himes, a Connecticut Democrat, have spearheaded legislation that
would increase the cap on shareholders to 1,000 before companies
would have to file public financial statements. It currently
stands at 500.  New Ideas  The agency is considering a possible concept release -- the
first stage in developing ideas for new rules -- that would
relax restrictions on the solicitations, Cross said in her
testimony.  McHenry, who said he applauded the president’s inclusion of
crowdfunding in his proposal, complained that the SEC “has
resisted calls to modernize securities regulations to meet the
needs of today’s economy.”  “Fixing this mess will not occur overnight,” McHenry
said. “But we must find new and modern means for capital
formation to ignite our struggling economy.”  McHenry, who also serves on the Financial Services
Committee, is pushing to raise the cap on crowdfunding to $5
million with individual investors limited to $10,000 or 10
percent of the investor’s annual income. The threshold is higher
than the $1 million level laid out in the Sept. 8 White House
blog post by Aneesh Chopra, the administration’s Chief
Technology Officer and Tom Kalil, deputy director for policy in
the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy.  Pabst Case  The rise of social networks has opened a door to new ways
to access funds for smaller firms, lawmakers and companies said.
Two advertising executives using Facebook and Twitter
solicitations attracted more than $200 million in pledges in
their effort to buy Pabst Brewing Co. Before they could collect
and bid on the company, they were forced to shutter the
BuyaBeerCompany.com website by the SEC. The agency said the two
men violated federal law by failing to register the offering
before seeking to raise the $300 million they said they needed
to buy the company.  McHenry, at his hearing, cited the case as one of the
reasons he drafted his bill.  House Republicans are scheduled to keep the pressure on
next week, when the Financial Services Committee hosts its own
hearing on Obama’s proposals with the support of both Democrats
and Republicans on the committee.  The day after Obama’s speech, Representative  Barney Frank ,
the top Democrat on the  Financial Services Committee , requested
a hearing on the topic in a letter to Representative  Spencer Bachus  of  Alabama , the Republican chairman of the panel. Bachus,
in a Sept. 13 reply to Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, said a
subcommittee hearing had already been in the works and would
occur next week.  “While Republicans and Democrats don’t seem to agree on
much these days, they do agree that entrepreneurs hold the key
to a bright economic future,” Chopra and Kalil wrote in their
 blog post .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  