-- 
UBS Trader Shows Banks Are Failing to Learn Lessons From Kerviel, Leeson

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-15T13:48:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/ubs-loss-shows-banks-fail-to-learn-lessons-of-kerviel-and-leeson.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
failed to learn the lessons of billion-dollar losses at  Societe
Generale  SA and Barings Plc, lawyers said.  The bank’s $2 billion loss from what it said was
unauthorized trading is reminiscent of former Societe Generale
derivatives trader  Jerome Kerviel , who caused a 4.9 billion-euro
($6.7 billion) loss in 2008, and  Nick Leeson , who caused the
collapse of Barings Plc with $1.4 billion in losses in 1995.  “It is astounding that a rogue trader can incur such
losses in late 2011 after the harsh lessons all banks should
have learned from Societe Generale’s Kerviel fraud,”  Simon Morris , a financial services lawyer at CMS Cameron McKenna LLP,
said in an e-mailed statement. “This makes grim reading at a
time when investment banks are distancing themselves from the
casino banking excesses of recent years.”  UBS, based in Zurich, tumbled as much as 9.6 percent in
Swiss trading following the announcement, which deals a blow to
Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel ’s attempts to revive the
investment bank after the division recorded 57.1 billion Swiss
francs ($65 billion) in cumulative pretax losses in three years
through 2009. The loss may revive calls for Gruebel to shrink or
shut the unit.  A UBS spokeswoman in London declined to comment.  It is the largest trading loss by a single employee since
Kerviel’s unauthorized trades in 2008. A Paris court ordered him
last year to repay the full amount of the loss and sentenced him
to three years in jail. He’s appealing the ruling.  ‘A Nightmare’  Kerviel amassed 50 billion euros in unauthorized positions,
concealed with faked hedges. Paris-based Societe Generale
discovered the trades in January 2008 and decided to unwind the
bets over three days, resulting in the loss.  The U.K.  Financial Services Authority  said it had discussed
the Kerviel case with as many 50 banks in  London  and that “many
had already put in place reviews to ensure they identify any
gaps in trading controls and close them as soon as possible,”
according to a  policy document  from March 2008.  The FSA warned banks to “monitor traders’ positions” for
“all material risks” and said that most firms were satisfied
“that their basic controls and governance surrounding trading,
risk management and settlement activities are effective.”  UBS is going to be “killed by the regulators,” Lindsay Thomas, a financial regulation adviser at Sustainable Risks,
said in a telephone interview in London today. “It’s a
nightmare for the firm, and in this current environment the
regulators aren’t going to spare the horses.”  Leeson Trades  Leeson, also a former derivatives trader, caused Britain’s
oldest merchant bank, Barings, to collapse after his $1.4
billion in losses on the futures and options markets in
 Singapore  and Osaka,  Japan , were uncovered in 1995.  He was freed from a Singapore prison in 1999 after serving
two-thirds of his six-and-a-half year sentence for fraud and
forgery. Harry’s Bar in Singapore created a drink called the
Bank Breaker to commemorate Leeson’s release, mixing Midori,
whisky and soda water.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  