-- 
UBS Asked Police to Arrest Adoboli Before Contacting U.K. FSA, Prosecutors

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-09-15T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/ubs-asked-police-to-arrest-adoboli-before-contacting-u-k-fsa-prosecutors.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
asked British police at 1 a.m. to arrest Kweku Adoboli before
notifying the U.K. financial regulator or prosecutors, according
to two people familiar with the matter.  The Financial Services Authority was notified shortly after
police. Prosecutors at the  Serious Fraud Office , which also
handles white-collar crime, weren’t contacted at all, according
to the people, who declined to be identified because the
investigations are private.  The investigation highlights the fragmented financial crime
enforcement agencies in the U.K. with jurisdictions that often
overlap. That UBS went straight to police after learning about a
$2 billion loss on trades indicates that the 31-year-old Adoboli
may have been a flight risk, or that the bank wanted to distance
itself from any crime, said Lindsay Thomas, a financial
regulation adviser at Sustainable Risks.  UBS wants “to suggest that it was a terrible criminal act,
and that they were a victim,” Thomas said in a phone interview
in  London .  The City of London police arrested Adoboli at a business
address in London at 3:30 a.m. on suspicion of fraud and abuse
of position in connection with unauthorized trading at UBS’s
investment bank. Police declined to identify the address.
Adoboli remains in custody during the probe, Commander Ian Dyson
said yesterday.  UBS is still investigating the matter, the Zurich-based
bank said in a statement. No client positions were affected, and
it may be unprofitable in the third quarter because of the loss,
UBS said, declining to comment further.  Delta One  Adoboli worked on the bank’s Delta One desk, a unit that
handles trades for clients, typically helping them to speculate
on or hedge the performance of a basket of securities. He
graduated from the University of Nottingham, in central  England ,
in 2003 with a degree in e-commerce and digital business,
according to the school.  The short notice caught regulators flat-footed and neither
the FSA in London nor Switzerland’s Financial Market Supervisor
would say whether they had opened a formal investigation.  One of the people familiar with the situation said that
while the FSA has been in contact with UBS and FINMA, it hasn’t
opened a formal probe yet because officials are still gathering
information about whether a crime or regulatory violation
occurred.  Tobias Lux, a spokesman for FINMA, declined to comment on
whether the regulator, which monitors risk management at Swiss
banks, has started a formal investigation.  ‘Close Contact’  “We are in close contact with UBS, which informed us
immediately about the situation,” Lux said.  The investigations bring attention to the U.K.’s multiple
agencies that combat financial crime.  The  City of London  police is one of two police squads in
the capital and focuses on economic crime with a specialized
fraud unit. Cases handled by the department are generally
brought to trial by the  Crown Prosecution Service . The
 Metropolitan Police Service  handles more general crime
throughout greater London.  The Serious Fraud Office, which both prosecutes and
investigates white collar crime and corruption, said in
statement that it would start making initial inquiries into the
case.  Seeking Discussions  “The SFO will be seeking discussions with relevant
parties, City of London Police, FSA and UBS if necessary, to
determine the best way forward should fraud be at the base of
these actions,” the prosecutors said.  A criminal case against Adoboli wouldn’t be tackled by the
FSA, which generally only prosecutes insider-trading cases, said
Ruth Gevers, a director at the Promontory Financial Group in
London.  “The FSA’s angle on this would be, are there systems and
controls failings by the firm that put them at risk?” Gevers
said. “They’ll want to know if there’s unauthorized trading and
how it happened.”  UBS will be “desperate to comply” with an inevitable FSA
regulatory probe, said Steven Francis, a lawyer at Reynolds
Porter Chamberlain in London. The FSA has emphasized the
importance of stringent compliance procedures to stop
unauthorized trading since the 2008 arrest of  Jerome Kerviel  in
Paris.  “The interesting thing is what happens to UBS because
unless this guy was incredibly devious there has to have been a
failure of controls at the bank,” Francis said. “He would’ve
clearly exceeded his limits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  