-- 
UBS Trader Gets No Miracle as Delta-One Loss Leads to Pre-Dawn U.K. Arrest

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n ,   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-09-16T11:14:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/ubs-trader-gets-no-miracle-as-delta-one-loss-leads-to-arrest.html
As Switzerland’s central bank
imposed a limit on the franc’s appreciation against the euro on
Sept. 6,  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader Kweku Adoboli’s Facebook profile had a
plea for his friends: “Need a miracle.”  Just over a week later, at 3:30 a.m. yesterday, police in
London arrested the 31-year-old Adoboli on suspicion of fraud by
abuse of position. UBS told investors less than five hours later
that “unauthorized trading by a trader” it didn’t identify
caused a $2 billion loss.  Adoboli worked on the bank’s Delta One desk, a unit that
handles trades for clients, typically helping them to speculate
on or hedge the performance of a basket of securities. It also
takes risks with the bank’s own money in arranging trades. It
was the same kind of desk as the one worked by  Jerome Kerviel ,
who triggered a 4.9 billion-euro loss ($6.8 billion) for
 France ’s  Societe Generale  SA in January 2008.  “It couldn’t come at a worse time for UBS,” said Fred Ponzo, a former trader at Societe Generale and capital markets
adviser at Greyspark Partners in  London . “The thing is, it’s
very hard to go through the fail-safes by error. The only way to
dig a hole this big is by design. You have to ask the question
that if this is a $2 billion hole, is this a failure of
technology and risk management?”  The arrest as global regulators are pressing banks to curb
their proprietary trading is likely to revive calls for
financial institutions to increase controls on risk and separate
their  investment banking  from their retail businesses. It may
also force Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel , 67, to
abandon further expansion of UBS’s investment bank.  ‘Final Straw’  The loss is “the final straw in UBS’s ambitious build-out
to a tier-one investment bank,” wrote JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts led by Kian Abouhossein in a note to clients yesterday.
“First, we think we’ll likely see management changes within
UBS’s investment bank. Second, we expect UBS will come under
material pressure from shareholders” and regulators to review
its investment banking division.  The bank,  Switzerland ’s largest, fell 11 percent in Zurich
yesterday, the most since March 2009. The stock climbed 3.3
percent to 10.07 francs as of 1:15 p.m. today. The stock is down
36 percent this year, compared with a 32 percent decline in the
46-member Bloomberg European Banks and Financial Services Index.  Moody’s Review  Moody’s Investors Service put credit ratings for UBS under
review for possible downgrade. The examination will focus on
“weaknesses in the group’s risk management and controls that
have become evident again,” Moody’s said in a statement. The
loss itself “would be manageable for the group given its sound
liquidity and capital position.”  UBS risk officers were examining Abodoli’s trades before he
informed them of them, according to a person with knowledge of
the matter. The bank asked British police at 1 a.m. yesterday to
arrest Adoboli, before alerting the U.K. financial regulator or
prosecutors, according to two people familiar with the matter.
The Financial Services Authority was notified shortly after the
police, and prosecutors at the  Serious Fraud Office  weren’t
contacted at all, according to two people, who asked not to be
identified because the investigations are private.  UBS declined yesterday to say how the trading allegedly
lost the bank $2 billion. Gruebel called the loss
“unauthorized” and “distressing” in an e-mail to employees,
without giving details. No client positions were affected, the
Zurich-based company said in the statement, issued on the third
anniversary of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s collapse.  Industry Speculation  Traders at other firms speculate that UBS may have failed
to adequately hedge the  currency risk  related to an exchange
traded fund, known as ETF, or mistakenly placed a  currency swap 
the wrong way, according to executives at other firms who
declined to be identified. When the  Swiss National Bank ,
Switzerland’s central bank, announced its limit on the currency
Sept. 6, the franc fell more than 8 percent against the euro.  “It’s most likely to be a currency trade gone wrong,”
said  Manoj Ladwa , a senior trader at ETX Capital, a London-based
broker that trades stocks, bonds, currencies, swaps and
exchange-traded funds. “I would be shocked if it happened over
a period of days, because you would expect back-office systems
to pick it up. It’s only the Swiss franc that’s moved so sharply
over such a short space of time last week.”  UBS has been stung by trading losses before. In 1998,
Chairman Mathis Cabiallavetta and three top executives resigned,
taking the blame for a charge of 950 million Swiss francs
stemming from exposure to Long-Term Capital Management LP, the
failed U.S. hedge fund. An internal audit found “shortcomings
in risk-management processes” before and after the merger
between Union Bank of Switzerland and Swiss Bank Corp. that
formed UBS, the bank said at the time.  Earlier Trading Losses  This century, UBS was among the first stung by the subprime
mortgage contagion when its Dillon Read Capital Management LP
hedge fund, run by former investment banking chief John Costas,
lost 150 million francs in the first quarter of 2007. As
subprime losses spread to UBS’s investment bank, they led to
departures by CEO Peter Wuffli, finance chief Clive Standish,
Huw Jenkins, the head of the investment bank, and Chairman
Marcel Ospel.  The investment bank piled up 57.1 billion francs in
cumulative pretax losses in the three years through 2009, and
UBS had to be rescued by the Swiss government. The bank brought
Gruebel, who previously ran rival  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , out of
retirement in February 2009 after the company posted the biggest
annual loss in Swiss corporate history.  Since joining UBS, Gruebel has sought to install tighter
controls at the investment bank. He started weekly calls with
top officers and was personally monitoring traders’ positions,
together with Carsten Kengeter, who runs the investment bank.  Quaker Doctrines  Adoboli was a director of ETF and Delta One Trading in
London, meaning he was a member of the trading desk. Before
that, he worked as a trade support analyst at UBS, according to
a profile posted on LinkedIn. Photography, cycling and wine are
listed as interests on his Bloomberg biography page.  He graduated from the University of Nottingham in July
2003, earning his degree with honors in e-commerce and digital
business, the school said in a statement. He also attended the
Ackworth School in West Yorkshire as an overseas boarder until
1998, Kathryn Bell, the head of the school, said in an e-mail.  “He was an able student who made a very positive
contribution to the school community,” Bell said.  Frozen on Facebook  Ackworth was founded in 1779 by John Fothergill, an English
physician and Quaker preacher. The school, about 180 miles north
of London, still adheres to Quaker doctrines, with students
required to attend Sunday worship and engage in “periods of
reflective silence” before meals, according to its  website .  Adoboli’s Facebook account has been frozen, according to a
friend who had access to his profile. Calls to Adoboli’s office
number were answered by a man identifying himself as Owen, who
said he wasn’t at work today and wasn’t able to say when he
would return.  Adoboli is now shown as inactive on the Financial Services
Authority’s register. His father, John Adoboli, a former United
Nations official, told the U.K.’s Press Association in an
interview from Tema,  Ghana  that the family was “heartbroken
because fraud isn’t our way of life.”  The trader has hired lawyers at Kingsley Napley in London
to represent him, according to a spokeswoman. The firm
previously advised  Nick Leeson , whose $1.4 billion of losses
triggered the collapse of Barings Plc in 1995.  Council Estate  Until a few months ago, Adoboli lived in an apartment in
the Shoreditch district, said two neighbors, who declined to
give their names because the matter is too sensitive. One of the
neighbors, interviewed on his doorstep, remembered Adoboli as a
friendly person with a taste for loud parties, who once brought
him a bottle of champagne to apologize for the disturbance.  The building, whose carvings proclaim it was built as a
“Soup Kitchen for the Jewish Poor” in 1902, was converted into
luxury apartments after the kitchen closed in the 1990s. The
district faces the Carter House council estate, or housing
project, with its open-air balconies full of trash bags, bikes,
and colorful towels hung out to dry. The area, its maze of lanes
lined with pubs and restaurants, is where Jack the Ripper
struck. On the fringes of the financial district, it is a five-
minute walk to the UBS office in Broadgate.  ‘Complex Areas’  There, Adoboli’s desk handled proprietary dealing and
trades for clients. Such desks would trade in a variety of
securities to enable clients to speculate and hedge baskets of
securities. For example, if a client wanted to short Swiss
equities expecting the franc to rise, the desk would design a
trade and use a combination of equity swaps, futures and ETFs to
accomplish it. As the derivatives should mirror the securities
they track, they would be insurance against market moves and
shouldn’t carry extra risk for the bank.  “Delta One desks are not necessarily known as risky
areas,” said Terry Smith, CEO of the interdealer broker Tullett
Prebon Plc and of the asset management firm Fundsmith LLP. “But
they are known as complex areas.”  Delta One traders profit on cost and margin differences
between derivatives and their underlying securities, and by
timing the purchase and sale of each element.  The derivatives they use include exchange-traded funds,
swaps and futures. As a member of the trading desk, Adoboli
helped structure ETFs for clients and then hedge the bank’s
positions to safeguard against potential losses.  Societe Generale  ETFs give buyers exposure to illiquid or complex baskets of
assets. For example, an investor looking to bet on the movement
of the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  can buy a single ETF rather than
individual shares in all 100 companies in the index. Investment
banks such as UBS structure such ETFs by buying the underlying
assets.  The desks take the Delta One name because price movements
in the derivatives they create move almost in lockstep with the
underlying securities. This relationship is defined as having a
delta of one or close to one.  At Societe Generale, Kerviel used futures to bet the market
would go up, just as it collapsed. Futures, unlike ETFs, are
leveraged products, causing the buyer to lose more than the
initial investment.  The European exchange-traded fund market had $324.4 billion
of assets at the end of July 2011, 37 percent more than a year
earlier, according to data compiled by BlackRock Inc., the
biggest provider of ETFs globally.  Regulators’ Scrutiny  That growth has attracted the attention of U.K.
authorities. In its June 2010 Financial Stability Report, the
 Bank of England  said there was a danger that “the benefits of
ETFs become outweighed by complexity, opacity and contingent
risks.” In February, the FSA said it had “heightened our
supervisory vigilance in this area.” In July, the Serious Fraud
Office announced a probe into the funds.  “This comes at a critical time in the debate about how to
structure the banking system,” said  Richard Reid , head of
research at the London-based research firm the International
Centre for Financial Regulation. “It makes it much tougher for
banks to resist efforts to tighten up regulation just as macro-
economic conditions deteriorate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  