-- 
UBS on Review for Downgrade by S&P, Moody's, Fitch

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-09-16T11:33:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/ubs-ratings-put-on-review-for-possible-cut-by-moody-s-after-trading-loss.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , which said it sustained a
$2 billion loss from unauthorized trading at its investment
bank, had its credit ratings put under review for possible
downgrade by  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service.  The examination “will center on ongoing weaknesses in the
group’s risk management and controls that have become evident
again,” Moody’s analysts led by Robert Thomas said yesterday in
a statement. S&P said in a statement today it will make a
decision on the ratings “once further details emerge on the
scale of the loss and the risk management lapses that enabled it
to occur.”  The loss would be “manageable” for UBS if it’s confirmed
at about the announced level, the ratings companies said.  The incident deals a blow to Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel ’s attempts to rebuild the investment bank after the
division recorded 57.1 billion Swiss francs ($65 billion) in
cumulative pretax losses in three years through 2009. Moody’s
said it will consider how the event affects the company’s
ability to grow investment-banking revenue in an “appropriately
risk-contained way.”  “The losses call into question the group’s ability to
successfully complete the rebuilding of its investment banking
operations,” Moody’s said. “We have continued to express
concerns with regards to the ability of management to develop a
robust risk culture and effective control framework while at the
same time trying to re-establish its position in certain market
segments.”  London Arrest  London police arrested Kweku Adoboli, a UBS employee, in
connection with the loss, according to a person with knowledge
of the situation who requested anonymity. The matter is under
investigation and the “current estimate of the loss on the
trades is in the range of $2 billion,” UBS said yesterday, the
third anniversary of the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  “The loss is a setback to UBS’s efforts to rebuild its
reputation and demonstrate strengthened risk management
following its weak performance in 2007-2009,” S&P said. “UBS
is currently undertaking a strategic review of the size and
shape of the investment bank division, and we consider that the
trading loss may influence the outcome of this process.”  Based on current information, the review may result in
UBS’s A+ long-term counterparty  credit rating  either being
lowered by one level or confirmed, S&P said.  Standalone Risk  The Moody’s review applies to Zurich-based UBS’s standalone
financial strength rating and long-term debt and deposit
ratings, according to the statement. It also will examine the
impact on the company’s private-bank and wealth-management
businesses, Moody’s said.  Fitch Ratings  also said today it is placing UBS’s
“viability rating,” which reflects the bank’s standalone risk,
on review for a possible downgrade, while affirming the
company’s issuer default ratings.  “Fitch acknowledges that no control framework can fully
protect a bank from a ‘rogue’ trader,” the rating company said.
“However, the magnitude of the loss is large in the context of
UBS’s reduced investment bank activities and compared to other
‘rogue trader’ incidents at other institutions. This incident
strengthens the arguments for UBS to down-scale its investment
bank.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 