-- 
UBS Loss Bolsters Swiss Lawmakers’ Too-Big-to-Fail Cause

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l ,   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-09-15T14:26:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/ubs-loss-bolsters-swiss-lawmakers-too-big-to-fail-cause-1-.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s $2 billion loss from what
it said was unauthorized trading prompted Swiss lawmakers to
call for tougher capital requirements and for other businesses
to be protected from riskier  investment banking  operations.  Switzerland ’s biggest bank said today it may be
unprofitable in the third quarter after the loss from
“unauthorized trading” at its investment bank. UBS tumbled as
much as 10 percent in Swiss trading following the announcement.  “It shows that investment banking is a high-risk field and
it’s important that we clearly separate systemically important
functions from the rest of the banking business,” said Caspar Baader of the  Swiss People’s Party .  Swiss rule-makers are running ahead of counterparts in the
U.S. and  Europe  to make sure UBS and rival Credit Suisse Group
AG cut risks and hoard capital to avert the type of banking
collapse that hobbled Iceland’s economy. The Swiss Parliament is
expected to vote on proposals to limit risk-taking by the two
banks and impose higher capital surcharge requirements at the
end of this month, according to spokesman Mark Stucki.  “For a bank that has made mistakes in the past, it’s
absolutely unacceptable,” said Fulvio Pelli, the party
president of the Liberals, who later added that Switzerland’s
too-big-to-fail bill and tougher capital requirements were the
way forward. “I’m absolutely astonished that internal controls
didn’t work at UBS.”  Capital Requirements  The Swiss government has recommended changes to banking
laws which would force UBS and Credit Suisse to hold total
capital equal to at least 19 percent of their assets. That
requirement is almost double that of rival banks in the U.S. and
Europe.  A government-appointed panel rejected proposals to break up
the two Zurich-based banks or directly limit their size and
activities, such as proprietary trading.  “This case shows that security systems apparently can fail
again and again,” said Marianne Binder, a spokeswoman for the
 Christian Democrats . “Because of this, higher capital
requirements for banks are necessary.”  The trading loss deals a blow to Chief Executive Officer
 Oswald Gruebel ’s attempts to revive the investment bank after
the division recorded 57.1 billion Swiss francs ($65 billion) in
cumulative pretax losses in three years through 2009.  “We are in close contact with UBS, which informed us
immediately about the situation,” said Tobias Lux, a spokesman
for the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority. He
declined to comment on whether Finma, which monitors risk
management at Swiss banks, has started an investigation.  UBS Investigating  UBS is still investigating the matter, the Zurich-based
company said in a statement today. No client positions were
affected, UBS said, declining to comment further on the matter.  City of  London  police arrested Kweku Adoboli, a UBS
employee, in connection with the loss, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter who declined to be identified.
London police and UBS declined to identify the man.  The bank had to raise more than $46 billion in capital from
investors, including the Swiss state, to make up for the losses
during the credit crisis. The investment-banking unit had pretax
earnings of 1.21 billion francs in the first half of 2011, while
UBS as a whole had net income of 2.82 billion francs in the
period.  “There can’t be another state bailout,” Hans Fehr, a
lawmaker of the Swiss People’s Party, said in a phone interview.
“It can’t be up to the state and taxpayers to rescue large
banks that are involved in risky business.”  Capital Ratio  The bank’s Tier 1 capital at the end of the second quarter
was 37.39 billion francs, giving it a tier 1 capital ratio of
18.1 percent, compared with 14 percent at Deutsche Bank AG,
 Germany ’s biggest bank.  UBS fell 8.6 percent to 9.99 francs as of 3:50 p.m. in
Zurich, bringing this year’s decline to 35 percent.  “We’ve taken cognizance of the news,” Roland Meier, a
spokesman for the  Finance Ministry  said in a telephone interview
from Bern. “At the moment the too-big-to-fail draft is being
discussed in parliament,” and the UBS loss “fits well” within
this topic. He declined to comment further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Zurich at   smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Zurich at   kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  