-- 
UBS’s Trading Loss Underlines Need for Firewalls, Advocates Say

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-09-15T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/ubs-s-trading-loss-underlines-need-for-firewalls-advocates-say.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s $2 billion trading loss
underlines the need for lenders to insulate their consumer units
from the more risky investment-banking operations, a banker and
lawmaker said.  “The idea that you can safely combine investment and
retail banking has just taken a massive blow,” Terry Smith,
chief executive officer of asset-management firm Fundsmith LLP
and interdealer broker Tullett Prebon Plc in  London , said
yesterday. “Events like this can lead to taxpayers and
governments having to support banks because of the combination
with retail banking.”  Switzerland’s biggest bank said yesterday the loss, which
occurred from “unauthorized” trading at the investment bank,
could make the lender unprofitable in the third quarter.  John
Vickers , chairman of the U.K. government-appointed  Independent
Commission on Banking , recommended in a Sept. 12 report that
banks build firewalls between their consumer and investment
operations.  While it is impossible to stop rogue trading, you can
protect taxpayers and the government from being on the hook for
any losses by insulating a banks’ consumer business, said Sajid Javid, a lawmaker from Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Conservative Party.  “This is a reminder of why Vickers will help make the
banking system safer,” said Javid, who was a former managing
director at Deutsche Bank AG. “In a post-Vickers world, as a
taxpayer you can sleep better at night. What Vickers will
achieve is this kind of loss in a ring-fenced bank won’t hit the
retail” unit.  Investors and  money market funds  are already forcing
Europe’s lenders to erect firebreaks around their retail banking
operations through increased funding costs for their more risky
securities units, according to  Simon Maughan , head of sales and
distribution at MF Global Ltd. in London.  “Whether it’s brought in by the ICB or enforced by the
market,  Europe ’s banks are going to have to be ring-fenced,” he
said. “If they use the holding company to fund the investment
bank then money market funds will drive up the costs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  