-- 
Vinacafe Bien Hoa Profit May Beat Forecast by 44%, Dung Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-15T04:53:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/vinacafe-bien-hoa-profit-may-beat-forecast-by-44-dung-says-1-.html
Vinacafe Bien Hoa Joint-Stock Co.,
a unit of  Vietnam ’s second-biggest coffee exporter, said full-
year net income may exceed its forecast by 44 percent as raw-
material costs were less than anticipated.  Profit for the year ending Dec. 31 may rise to 200 billion
dong ($9.6 million), compared with the previous forecast of 139
billion dong, said Deputy General Director Le Hung Dung. Net
income at the maker of roasted and instant coffee may have
reached 140 billion dong in the first eight months, Dung said in
an interview yesterday.  Vinacafe Bien Hoa, the target of a takeover offer from
 Masan Group Corp. (MSN) , said last month the purchase of raw materials
“at a good price” had boosted year-to-date profit. Lower
global prices will help the company cut the cost of importing
coffee to be processed at its plant in Bien Hoa, Dung said at
his office in the southern city.  “It depends on what happens with coffee prices the rest of
the year,” he said.  Profit rose 19 percent last year to 161.6 billion dong,
helped by growing domestic consumption. Vietnam’s retail sales
gained 22.2 percent in the first eight months of 2011 from a
year earlier, according to the General Statistics Office.  Shares of Vinacafe Bien Hoa have jumped 77 percent since
the company’s listing on Jan. 28. The stock rose 5 percent today
to 94,500 dong, compared with the 0.8 percent gain in the
benchmark VN Index.  Increase Exports  Vinacafe Bien Hoa is planning a new plant in Long Thanh, a
district in the province of Dong Nai adjacent to  Ho Chi Minh
City . The factory, which would have annual capacity of 3,200
metric tons, is scheduled to open in October 2012, Dung said.  The new plant will allow Vinacafe Bien Hoa to reduce its
imports of instant coffee, he said. “This will also help to
meet market demand and increase our exports,” Dung said.  The U.S. is the destination for about 85 percent of
Vinacafe Bien Hoa’s coffee exports, while markets including  Hong
Kong ,  Taiwan  and  China  account for the rest, he said.  The U.S. was the biggest market by volume after  Germany  for
Vietnamese coffee exports in the marketing year ending Sept. 30,
2010, according to  a report  from the agricultural attache’s
office at the U.S. Embassy in  Hanoi . Vietnam is the world’s
 second-biggest  coffee producer after  Brazil .  “In China, the young people are shifting to coffee from a
tradition of drinking tea, so the Chinese market provides great
potential,” Dung said. “In Vietnam too there is a shift from
drinking tea, particularly in the north.”  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest coffee-shop chain,
said this month it plans to open its first Vietnam store in 2013.  A unit of Masan, the biggest company by market value on the
Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange, offered this month to buy 50.1
percent of Vinacafe Bien Hoa’s shares for 80,000 dong a share
for a total value of 1.07 trillion dong.  --Jason Folkmanis and Diep Ngoc Pham in Bien Hoa, Vietnam.
Editors: Ryan Woo, Keith Gosman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net ;
Diep Ngoc Pham in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 