-- 
Vivus Shares Rise After Reaching Accord With FDA on Qnexa

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-09-15T20:20:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/vivus-shares-rise-after-reaching-agreement-with-fda-on-qnexa.html
Vivus Inc. (VVUS)  rose to a four-month
high in Nasdaq trading after saying the company reached an
agreement with U.S. regulators on resubmitting its Qnexa obesity
treatment for approval.  Vivus gained 41 cents, or 4.8 percent, to $8.88 at 4 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, its highest price since May.  The  Food and Drug Administration  will consider Qnexa for
the treatment of obese men and women who don’t have the
potential for having children, the Mountain View, California-
based company said in a statement. Under the agreement, Vivus
will resubmit Qnexa by the end of next month, with the FDA
scheduling an advisory panel in the first quarter of next year.
A final decision on whether the drug is approved would come in
the second quarter of 2012, Vivus said.  The FDA rejected Qnexa Oct. 28, citing concerns the
medicine may cause  birth defects  and increase heart rate. The
biotechnology company is submitting the application before the
results of a study called Fortress examining the treatment’s
effect on fetuses exposed in the first trimester of pregnancy.  Fortress results “may enable us to expand the indication
to include obese women of child-bearing potential,” Peter Tam,
president of the company, said in the statement. “If the
Fortress results are favorable, we expect to file for the full
indication in late 2012.”  Vivus has been competing with San Diego-based  Arena
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA)  to sell the first new prescription diet
pill in the U.S. Another company,  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX) , in
La Jolla, California, said it would halt development of its diet
pill in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 