-- 
Wall Street Firms Outweigh Investors in Influence on Swaps, Gensler Says

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-09-15T16:36:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/wall-street-firms-outweigh-investors-in-influence-on-swaps-gensler-says.html
Wall Street firms have been more
active than other players in seeking to influence regulators
writing rules for the $601 trillion swaps market, said  Gary Gensler , head of the U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission .  “Large institutions usually have an outsize interest in
getting to us and investors tend not be knocking on our doors as
much,” Gensler said today at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in
New York. “There is a little imbalance.”  The New York meeting is tied to the magazine’s ranking of
the 50 most influential leaders in global markets, finance,
business and government.  The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  are leading
efforts to write rules mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act to reduce
risk and boost transparency in trades by firms including Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Cargill Inc. Dodd-
Frank was enacted by President  Barack Obama  in July 2010 after
largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  The CFTC has held about 1,000 meetings with firms including
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , Citigroup Inc. and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DB)  “If you
look at those 1,000 meetings, the vast majority are from large
financial institutions,” Gensler said.  The Dodd-Frank rules, which the CFTC is aiming to complete
this year and in the first quarter of 2012, include “historic
changes” to derivatives markets, Gensler said after the summit.  “What you’re seeing play out is people advocating their
position and sometimes they’re advocating things that are
consistent with improving the rule and sometimes they’re not,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  