-- 
Wallabies Recall O’Connor, Botha Has ‘Amazing Recovery’: World Cup Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-15T02:55:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/wallabies-recall-o-connor-botha-has-amazing-recovery-world-cup-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
stories from the 2011 Rugby  World Cup  in New Zealand.  O’Connor Returns  James O’Connor, who was chosen on the bench for  Australia ’s
World Cup opener against Italy after serving a one-game
suspension, returned to the starting lineup to face Ireland on
Sept. 17 in place of injured winger Digby Ioane.  O’Connor, who converted three of Australia’s four tries and
touched down once himself in the 32-6 win over Italy, will take
over goal-kicking duties from fly-half  Quade Cooper . Adam Ashley-Cooper will move from the right to the left wing of the
Wallabies’ backline formation.  “It’s great to be back in the starting team,” O’Connor
said at a televised news conference. “It was good to be a part
of the win against  Italy , when I came on the field I just wanted
to get involved as much as possible. It was a good start to a
World Cup.”  Drew Mitchell , who’s yet to play a Test in 2011 following
ankle surgery, will take O’Connor’s place on the bench.  ‘Old Farm Vehicle’  Defending champion  South Africa  recalled  Bakkies Botha , who
has recovered from an Achilles injury, in one of four starting
changes for the Pool D game against Fiji in two days.  Victor Matfield, Jean de Villiers and Bryan Habana are all
unavailable because of injuries and will be replaced by Botha,
Pat Lambie and Odwa Ndungane, while Gurthro Steenkamp was
promoted to start at loosehead prop in place of Tendai Mtawarira,
who dropped to the bench. Lambie will play at full-back as
selectors shifted Frans Steyn to inside center in place of de
Villiers.  Botha, who’s played 74 Tests, said he’s made an “amazing
recovery” from the injury that forced him out of the
Springboks’ 17-16 win over Wales four days ago.  “I still feel a little bit of stiffness, but it’s like
that old farm vehicle in the morning: it smokes a bit but when
you drive it, after half an hour then it’s hot and it can go,”
Botha, 31, said in comments distributed by tournament organizers.
“I definitely know I’m ready this weekend.”  Disneyland  Japan coach John Kirwan said playing tournament favorite
 New Zealand  tomorrow will be like a rollercoaster ride for the
13th-ranked Cherry Blossoms. The All Blacks racked up a record
145 points in the teams’ only previous World Cup meeting in 1995.  “If you’ve ever been to Disneyland and seen the big
rollercoaster it’s a bit like that,” Kirwan, a former New
Zealand winger, said in comments distributed by tournament
organizers. “A little bit exciting and a little bit scary at
the same time. That’s how we feel about playing the All
Blacks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 