-- 
Wheat Exports From Australia Seen Missing Government Forecast on Harvest

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-09-15T07:08:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/wheat-exports-from-australia-seen-missing-government-s-forecast-on-harvest.html
Wheat exports from  Australia , set
to be the world’s second-biggest supplier, are likely to miss a
government forecast as production will be less than predicted,
said two of the country’s banks.  Shipments may be 19 million to 19.5 million metric tons,
said Paul Deane, an economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. That’s about 1 million tons below an estimate for a
record 20.4 million tons in the year starting Oct. 1 from the
 Australian Bureau of Agricultural  and Resource Economics and
Sciences. Cargoes totaled 18.7 million tons this year.  While exports may trail the official estimate, they would
boost supplies and potentially pressure prices. Wheat has
tumbled 12 percent this month in  Chicago  on better harvests in
the former Soviet bloc and Canada. Global stockpiles may be
194.59 million tons by May 31, 3 percent more than expected in
August, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said. Australia
estimates its harvest at a near-record 26.2 million tons.  “It’s possible, it’s just not very probable in our eyes,”
said  Luke Mathews , a strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia , who maintained a production forecast of 23.5 million
tons. “We’re going to have a smaller crop; that will obviously
flow through to smaller end-use, of which exports is one source.
We believe exports will be well below the 20.4 million tons.”  Wheat for December delivery declined 0.6 percent to $7.005
a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade today and the most active
contract has dropped 3.6 percent in the past year.  No Rainfall  The Abares forecast is about 2 million tons more than the
median estimate of 18 million tons in a Bloomberg survey of
eight analysts and traders last month and about 3 million tons
more than predicted by the USDA.  “To get a 26 million number, at this point everything is
going to have to go really right,” said Deane from ANZ in an
interview in  Melbourne  yesterday. “Even the short-term outlook
I don’t think is particularly great, the next 7 to 10 days, for
rain. It doesn’t give me a lot of confidence that we’re going to
have a 26 million ton number” for the harvest, he said.  No rainfall is forecast for New South Wales, set to be the
second-biggest grower, in the four days to Sept. 18, according
to a weather  model  on the Bureau of Meteorology website. The
state had below-average rainfall in July and the Murray-Darling
Basin which extends from southern Queensland to  South Australia ,
had the driest June since 1986, it said.  Dry weather in July and August on the east coast spurred
concerns the nation may rely on a  bumper crop  in Western
Australia, set to be the biggest producer, to boost the harvest.  Reduced Estimates  Analysts at ANZ, National Australia Bank Ltd. and
Commonwealth Bank of Australia all cut their harvest predictions
in August, citing dry conditions on the east coast. ANZ lowered
its forecast again this month.  “You have Western Australia pretty much producing twice as
much as they did last year,” Henry To, a research economist at
Abares, said in an interview yesterday. In South Australia,
Victoria and central New South Wales “there were some periods
in June and July where it looked a bit dry but they did get good
August rainfall and that’s really helped crops along,” he said.  Wheat production in  Western Australia  may jump 89 percent
to 8.65 million tons this season, the Grain Industry Association
of Western Australia said yesterday, increasing its estimate
made last month. That compares with 9 million tons forecast by
the government this week. Drought in 2010 cut the state’s grain
crop by about half.  Corn Support  “We’re going to get a rebound in Western Australia,
there’s no question,” said Deane. “I expect east coast and
South Australia exports might be down a touch year-on-year, an
increase in Western Australia. Net, we might get a 1 million ton
increase in exports year-on-year.”  Increasing world supplies may pressure prices. Production
may jump 33 percent from a year earlier in a 12-country bloc of
former Soviet countries after drought hurt crops last season,
according to the USDA.  Canada ’s output was pegged 3.6 percent
higher than last year, when floods swamped fields.  “While a big export program out of Australia, out of
Ukraine and  Russia  are negative for prices, wheat can only fall
so far in this environment against corn,” said Deane, who
predicts wheat prices will average $7.10 a bushel in the three
months to Dec. 31. Prices will keep trading near parity to corn,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc said in a report dated Sept. 12.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  