-- 
Twitter Exempt From SEC Disclosure Rules for Companies With 500+ Employees

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-09-15T20:38:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/twitter-gets-leeway-from-sec-in-issuing-restricted-stock-units.html
Twitter Inc.  got a green light from
U.S. regulators to issue restricted stock units without running
afoul of a rule that requires public disclosure of financial
information.  The San Francisco-based blogging company won relief from
complying with a Securities and Exchange Commission rule that
compels private companies with 500 or more shareholders to make
certain disclosures. Twitter  requested  the exemption in August.  “The division will not object if Twitter does not comply
with the registration requirements” of the 1934 SEC Act, with
respect to issuing the restricted shares, Kim McManus, special
counsel at the SEC’s Division of Corporation Finance, wrote in a
Sept. 13  letter  posted to the SEC website.  Closely held companies with fewer than 500 shareholders
aren’t required to disclose financial data, such as revenue,
profit,  cash flow  and debt. Before an initial public offering,
that helps them pursue growth without the same degree of
scrutiny directed toward publicly traded companies.  Some startups say the 500-shareholder rule is restrictive,
and lawmakers have proposed raising the threshold to let firms
with less cash expand by compensating employees with stock.  Facebook Inc. received a similar  exemption  in 2008, as did
Zynga Inc.  earlier  this year.  Restricted stock units represent the right to a specified
number of shares of common Stock in the future if certain
conditions are met.  Matt Graves, spokesman for Twitter, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone message seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Womack  in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net .
 Z US <Equity> 