-- 
World Bank Sees Rising Chronic Illnesses Jeopardizing Economies

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-15T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/world-bank-sees-rising-chronic-illnesses-jeopardizing-economies.html
Increases in  heart disease , stroke,
diabetes and cancer among working-age people jeopardize economic
development as governments contend with the cost of treating the
illnesses and lose some of the benefits of having a young
population, a  World Bank  report said.  So-called non-communicable diseases are affecting people in
middle- and lower-income countries at younger ages, resulting in
a greater loss of the productivity needed for development,
according to the report released today. The global burden of the
illnesses and the impact on those of working age, between 18 and
65, will be discussed at a United Nations meeting of world
leaders in New York Sept. 19-20.  Most developing countries cannot afford the treatment costs
for these illnesses, according to the report. Encouraging
healthy lifestyles and reducing risks such as exposure to
harmful smoke are the best options against potential economic
harm, the  World Bank  said. The  World Economic Forum  and Harvard
University  estimate  that the diseases will cost the global
economy more than $30 trillion over the next 20 years.  “Leaders at the national and local level have the power to
save many lives, avoid widespread suffering, and forestall major
human and economic cost, all within a short space of time,”
according to the report from the Washington-based bank.  Heart disease is already a major cause of death and
disability in  South Asia , where the average age of first-time
heart attack sufferers is 53 compared with 59 in the rest of the
world, the World Bank said. In Ukraine, one in four people aged
18 to 65 has a non-communicable disease, it added.  Lost Output  In  Egypt , the aggregate labor supply is about 19 percent
below its potential due to lost employment and reduced numbers
of hours worked by those reporting chronic conditions, a
previous World Bank study showed. That statistic implies a
production loss of about 12 percent of the country’s gross
domestic product, the bank said in today’s report.  Chronic diseases “have the power to devour the benefits of
economic gains,” World Health Organization Director-General
Margaret Chan said in a Sept. 13 speech in  Azerbaijan .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  