-- 
Wright Medical Stays Under U.S. Oversight in Kickback Case

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-09-15T21:06:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/wright-medical-technology-deferred-prosecution-oversight-goes-on.html
Wright Medical Technology Inc.,
which paid $7.9 million last year to resolve criminal and civil
probes into whether it paid kickbacks to doctors, must undergo
another year of oversight by U.S. prosecutors in  New Jersey .  Wright, a maker of artificial hips and knees, was
criminally charged last September with conspiring to violate the
anti-kickback statute by using consulting agreements to induce
surgeons to use its products. The U.S. agreed to defer
prosecution for a year while a monitor oversaw reforms of
consultant hiring.  Gary D. Henley, the chief executive officer since 2006,
resigned on April 4 “without good reason” before a board
meeting to discuss the compliance program, the company said at
the time. On May 4, three other executives resigned, and the
company said it had found “credible evidence of serious
wrongdoing” regarding its compliance with the deferred-
prosecution agreement, Arlington, Tennessee-based Wright said.  Prosecutors said on May 5 that Wright had “knowingly and
willfully breached” its deferred-prosecution agreement. First
Assistant U.S. Attorney J. Gilmore Childers in  Newark , New
Jersey, announced today that his office was extending by a year
the agreement with Wright.  ‘Interim to Permanent’  “Our office is pleased with the extensive cooperation from
the newly appointed interim senior management team,” Childers
said in a statement. “Today’s extension will allow Wright to
make the transition from interim to permanent senior management
while still under the terms of the DPA and the surveillance of
the federal monitor.”  Wright spokesman Lance Berry didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  Under the new agreement, prosecutors will drop the criminal
case on Sept. 29, 2012, if Wright reforms the way it hires
consultants.  The alleged crimes took place from 2002 through 2007. The
monitor has been James B. Tucker, former U.S. attorney for the
Southern District of  Mississippi .  Federal prosecutors in Newark in 2007 charged  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ’s DePuy Orthopaedics Inc.,  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH) , Biomet
Inc. and Smith & Nephew Inc., makers of hip- and knee-implant
devices, with conspiring to violate the anti-kickback law.  The government agreed to defer prosecution if they paid
more than $310 million and made reforms. The cases ended in
2009.  The case is U.S. v. Wright Medical Technology, 10-mj-8233,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 