-- 
Companies Plan $3 Billion of U.S. Bond Offers: New Issue Alert

-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 
2011-09-19T09:28:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/xylem-exelis-plan-to-tap-corporate-bond-market-new-issue-alert.html
Companies are planning to sell at
least $2.75 billion of bonds in the U.S., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Corporate bond issuance in the U.S. was $28.6 billion last
week, Bloomberg data show. Companies have sold $891.6 billion of
bonds this year, compared with $789.7 billion in the equivalent
period of 2010.  Following is a description of pending sales of corporate
and other bonds.  Investment Grade  BANCO DE BOGOTA SA (BOGOTA) , the unit of Grup Aval Acciones y
Valores, plans to sell $1 billion of debt denominated in U.S.
dollars, said Alejandro Figueroa, the company president. Moody’s
Investors Service ranks Banco de Bogota Baa3, the lowest
investment grade.  (Added Sept. 13. See BOGOTA CB.)  INDIAN RAILWAY FINANCE CORP., the funding arm of India’s
rail ministry, plans to sell $300 million of dollar-denominated
bonds to fund train purchases. The fixed-rate notes due in five
years may pay a coupon lower than the 4.406 percent set at its
March sale, Managing Director Rajendra Kashyap said in an
interview in  New Delhi . The proposed notes are rated BBB- by
 Standard & Poor’s .  Split-Rated  UNION BANK OF  INDIA  LTD., the Mumbai-based lender that went
 public  in 2002, hired banks to help it arrange a series of
credit investor meetings in  Asia  and  Europe , according to a
person with knowledge of the transaction. The bank may consider
a sale of dollar bonds thereafter subject to market conditions,
the person said, asking not to be identified as details are
private. Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc.,
HSBC Holdings Plc, Deutsche Bank AG and Standard Chartered Plc
are helping to arrange the meetings, the person said. The bank
is rated Ba1 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  Not Rated  BANCO BICE plans to sell $120 million of five-year bonds
denominated in U.S. dollars, said Diario Financiero, citing the
Santiago-based lender.  UCO BANK, a Kolkata, India-based state-owned bank, plans to
meet with debt investors in  Hong Kong ,  London  and  Singapore 
ahead of a possible sale of bonds denominated in U.S. dollars,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter. BNP
Paribas, Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Standard Chartered Plc will arrange the so-called non-deal
road shows, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because he is not authorized to speak on the matter.  PRONACA will sell $50 million in bonds to help refinance
existing debt, the Bolsa de Valores de Quito said. Ecuador’s
biggest food processing company will sell the bonds, which have
maturities ranging from 3.2 years to 5.9 years, to yield between
6.25 percent and 7.25 percent, the exchange said in an e-mailed
statement.  AKKORD INDUSTRY CONSTRUCTION I, a civil engineering firm
based in Baku,  Azerbaijan , plans to sell $100 million of bonds
in U.S. dollars, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
notes will be due in three years, the data show.  (Added Aug. 8. See  http://www.akkord.az/ )  High Yield  AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC. (CAR) , the Parsippany, New Jersey-based
car rental company, may sell $250 million of notes due in March
2020 to help pay for its acquisition of Avis Europe Plc,
according to a person familiar with the offering. The company is
rated B1 by Moody’s and an equivalent B+ by S&P.  EMPRESA DE ENERGIA DE BOGOTA SA, Colombia’s second-biggest
electricity transporter, hired Deutsche Bank AG and Banco
Santander SA to sell bonds overseas, according to a person
familiar with the offering. Bogota-based EEB, as the utility is
known, may seek to sell bonds that mature in 10 years, said the
person who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  JELD-WEN INC., the door manufacturer that’s being purchased
by Onex Corp., plans to sell $575 million of secured notes due
in 2018, according to Moody’s. Moody’s assigns a B3 rating to
the notes. The senior secured debt will be issued through Jeld-
Wen Escrow Corp., and proceeds will be used with an investment
from Onex and its affiliates to refinance outstanding debt and
for general corporate purposes, said a person with knowledge of
the transaction, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  YPF SA, Argentina’s dominant integrated oil company, may
sell $300 million to $600 million of dollar-denominated eight-
year notes, according to a July 8 note from  Fitch Ratings , which
rates the bonds BB-. The proceeds of the offering of senior
unsecured notes may be used for general corporate purposes,
mainly capital investments and working capital needs, according
to the note.  CHINA HONGQIAO GROUP LTD., a Chinese aluminum products
manufacturer, hired JPMorgan Chase & Co., Barclays Plc and
Deutsche Bank AG to lead its proposed offering of senior notes,
according to a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange. The
notes, which may be denominated in dollars and yuan, may be used
to invest in electricity production facilities, the company
said. S&P assigned the notes a grade of BB-.  PT ALUCO, an Indonesian cable maker, plans to sell five-
year dollar bonds, according to a person familiar with the
matter. The sale of senior secured notes is being arranged by
BNP Paribas SA and DBS Bank Ltd., the person said, asking not to
be identified as details are private. The notes are being sold
by PT Tranka Kabel and will be guaranteed by Aluco, the person
said. Moody’s said on Aug. 23 that it withdrew ratings for the
company and the proposed notes.  (Updated Aug. 24. See 6082990Z IJ .)  AEGIS LTD., the Indian provider of outsourcing and
technology services, hired Deutsche Bank AG, Standard Chartered
Plc and UBS AG to help with its planned $300 million debut sale
of dollar-denominated bonds, according to a person familiar with
the matter, who declined to be identified because details are
private. The five-year bonds will be issued through Essar
Services (Mauritius), the person said.  PROBUSINESSBANK hired BCP Securities LLC and UBS AG to
arrange meetings with investors in Asia and Europe for a
possible sale of bonds in dollars, said a banker with knowledge
of the deal, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. The Russian lender is rated B2 by Moody’s.  Offerings in Pipeline  PERRIGO CO., the maker of generic and nonprescription drugs
and infant formulas, plans to sell $350 million of notes in
three parts, according to a company statement. Proceeds from the
sale will be used for general corporate purposes including
repaying debts, the Allegan, Michigan-based company said.  OAO CREDIT BANK OF MOSCOW, a Russian lender, is planning
meetings with European bond investors for a possible sale of
bonds in dollars. Raiffeisen Bank International AG was hired to
arrange the meetings, according to a person with knowledge of
the transaction. OAO Credit is rated B1 by Moody’s Investors
Service.  GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC, the paper producer, said in a July 14
statement it expects to raise $3 billion to $3.5 billion in
unsecured financing. Proceeds will be used to repay bank debt,
the statement said. Moody’s Investors Service said it may
upgrade the Atlanta-based company to investment grade.  CODELCO, the world’s largest copper producer, will look to
sell bonds to help finance a record $4 billion investment in its
Chilean mines next year, Chief Executive Officer  Diego Hernandez 
said.  ENTERGY LOUISIANA LLC, the unit of the New Orleans-based
power company, plans to sell about $206 million of bonds,
according to a company statement. The offering was delayed and
reauthorized after the utility violated regulations by
publicizing the sale in the wrong newspapers, the  Associated
Press  said on Aug. 11.  ISLAMIC BANK OF THAILAND, the nation’s state-owned bank,
may sell $150 million of Sharia-compliant bonds overseas, the
bank’s president Dheerasak Suwannayos, told reporters.  DOLPHIN ENERGY LTD., the Dubai-based natural gas producer,
will be “actively monitoring the market” and will release
terms on its planned dollar benchmark bond issue in an
“appropriate window of execution,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement.  ABU DHABI may sell an international bond, Lars Boman,
senior adviser at Abu Dhabi’s Debt Management Office, told a
Euromoney conference in London.  ROMANIA has started work on upgrading its medium-term note
program to include dollar-denominated notes, Deputy Finance
Minister Bogdan Dragoi said at a conference in Bucharest. The
ministry will have the option to sell bonds in either dollars or
euros, he said.  THE NETHERLANDS may sell “a few billion” of dollar-
denominated bonds this year, according to the Dutch State
Treasury Agency. The securities are likely to have five-year
maturities, Peter Nijsse, the head of cash management, issuance
and trading at the agency, said in an interview following a
media presentation in London on June 10. The Netherlands is
rated AAA by Standard & Poor’s and Aaa by Moody’s Investors
Service.  CODERE SA (CDR) ,  Spain ’s only publicly traded gambling operator,
may sell its first dollar-denominated bonds to refinance
existing debt in euros, Chief Financial Officer David Elizaga
said in an interview. Codere, which has 760 million euros ($1.1
billion) of bonds maturing in 2015, will sell “certainly a
minimum of $400 million” in the securities that will help the
company buy back debt and extend maturities to 2018 or 2019, he
said.  VIETNAM JOINT-STOCK COMMERCIAL BANK FOR INDUSTRY & TRADE,
or VietinBank, plans to sell $500 million to $1 billion of bonds
this year, Le Duc Tho, deputy general director, said in an
interview in Hanoi. The bonds may pay a fixed coupon, Tho said.  EL TEJAR SA, the world’s largest grain producer, plans to
sell as much as $300 million of bonds in the U.S. this year
before a planned initial public offering, according to the
company’s chief financial officer. The Buenos Aires-based
company could accelerate plans for the IPO depending on investor
reaction to the sale of between $200 million and $300 million of
bonds maturing in seven to 10 years, Chief Financial Officer
Mario Lorencatto said.  BHARTI AIRTEL LTD., India’s biggest mobile-phone operator,
plans to raise $750 million selling its first overseas bonds,
according to Fitch Ratings. Fitch graded the notes BBB-, the
lowest investment grade, according to a statement from the
ratings company.  PT UNIFLORA PRIMA, the Indonesian cocoa processor, delayed
a plan to sell dollar bonds, according to a person with
knowledge of the offering. The company is evaluating the
transaction based on investor feedback while it reviews all its
financing options, the person said, asking not to be identified
as details are private. It may re-engage with investors in the
near future, the person said.  (Updated April 19. See  http://www.unifloraprima.com )  CHINA AUTOMATION GROUP LTD. plans to issue $200 million of
senior notes due 2016 to yield 7.75 percent, the company said in
a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange on April 14. UBS AG
will lead the sale of the issue, for which conditions and terms
are yet to be decided, it said.  ASTON RESOURCES LTD., the Australian mineral exploration
company, is considering selling bonds in the U.S. to help raise
funds to develop its Maules Creek coal project in New South
Wales, Chief Executive Officer Todd Hannigan said at a business
luncheon in Sydney on March 3. Aston may raise $300 million to
$500 million, he said.  MONGOLIA is planning its first sale of sovereign bonds,
seeking about $500 million, to establish a benchmark that would
help companies from the resource-rich nation located between
China and  Russia  raise funds from credit markets. The issue will
be used to finance expansion of the mining industry and build
roads and bridges, President Tsakhia Elbegdorj said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York .  AVG TECHNOLOGIES, the Czech maker of Internet security
software, plans to sell bonds to U.S. investors to raise money
for dividends and acquisitions,  Siobhan MacDermott , AVG’s
Prague-based investor relations officer, said in an interview
Feb. 10. The producer of a free antivirus program that competes
with McAfee Inc. and Symantec Corp. is seeking to raise $300
million of debt, MacDermott said.  TATA STEEL LTD., India’s biggest producer of the alloy,
plans to sell $500 million of debt by the middle of this year,
CNBC-TV18 news channel reported, without saying where it got the
information.  RODOPA EXPORTACAO DE ALIMENTOS & LOGISTICA LTDA, a
Brazilian beef producer, may sell as much as $100 million in
five-year bonds in the second half of this year or early next
year, Chief Executive Officer Sergio Longo said Feb. 4 in an
interview at the company’s headquarters in Sao Paulo.  (Added Feb. 8. See  http://www.tatuibi.com.br/ )  GAIL INDIA LTD., the nation’s largest natural gas
distributor, plans to borrow $500 million in notes. The state-
controlled company may sell dollar bonds for the first time to
raise $350 million or take a dollar-denominated loan of an equal
value after September to fund a 55 billion-rupee ($1.2 billion)
spending plan in the next financial year, Director of Finance
P.K. Jain said in a telephone interview. Separately, the utility
plans to raise $150 million in a dollar loan from Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., he said.  PT SULFINDO ADIUSAHA, an Indonesian company that makes
chlorine and chemicals, hired Barclays Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc to help it sell five-year, fixed-rate dollar
bonds, according to a person familiar with the matter.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group (BARKA) , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
hasn’t decided on the size of the bond, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 