-- 
Yingluck Visits Cambodia as Thailand Seeks to Mend Links Hurt by Clashes

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-09-15T02:40:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/yingluck-visits-cambodia-as-thailand-seeks-to-mend-links-hurt-by-clashes.html
Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra will visit  Cambodia  today in a sign of improving ties
after border fighting under her predecessor killed more than 20
people and led the  United Nations  to intervene.  Yingluck’s seven-hour visit “will help cool the situation
and allow relations to come back to normal,” said Pavin Chachavalpongpun, a visiting research fellow at the Institute of
Southeast Asian Studies in  Singapore . The trip will help mend
ties over the border clashes and lay the groundwork for a deal
for oil and gas exploration in disputed waters, he said.  Cambodia called last month for official talks with Yingluck
to jointly develop areas of the Gulf of  Thailand , where  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) , Royal Dutch Shell Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd. have rights
to explore for oil and gas. Yingluck’s trip precedes a visit
tomorrow by her brother  Thaksin Shinawatra , who Cambodia named
as an adviser after he was deposed in a 2006 coup.  The United Nations court in July imposed a demilitarized
zone around Preah Vihear temple, a  World Heritage site  at the
center of deadly gun battles over the past three years.  Cambodia, granted sovereignty over the temple by the
 International Court of Justice in the Hague  in 1962, had asked
for measures to prevent more clashes while judges interpret a
ruling to demarcate a nearby disputed area.  The 1962 court decision refrained from demarcating 4.6
square kilometers (1.8 square miles) of contested land around
the temple, which has fueled the recent fighting. Former Prime
Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva, who Yingluck unseated after her
party won a majority in July elections, had opposed the World
Heritage Committee’s consideration of Cambodia’s management plan
for the temple on grounds that it infringes Thai sovereignty.  ‘Return to Peace’  “Both governments want a return to peace and developing
the joint interests of the two nations,” Cambodian government
spokesman Phay Siphan said yesterday by phone from  Phnom Penh ,
the capital. “It’s completely different from Abhisit, who
always saw Cambodia as a second-class nation.”  Yingluck will return to Thailand tonight after meeting
counterpart Hun Sen and King Norodom Sihamoni, Thai government
spokesman Thitima Chaisang said. Thaksin, who remains a fugitive
in his homeland, will visit Phnom Penh to give a lecture,
Cambodian government spokesman Phay Siphan said.  Thailand and Cambodia have yet to demarcate their 803-
kilometer (499-mile) land border and 26,993 square kilometers
(10,422 square miles) in the Gulf of Thailand that may contain
oil and gas reserves. Thailand’s $264 billion economy is about
26 times the size of Cambodia’s, according to  statistics  from
the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  