-- 
Zloty Appreciates the Most in 10 Months as ECB, Fed Move to Lend Dollars

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-15T15:35:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-15/zloty-appreciates-the-most-in-10-months-as-ecb-fed-move-to-lend-dollars.html
The Polish zloty jumped the most in
almost 10 months against the euro after the  European Central
Bank  said it will lend dollars to euro-area banks.  The zloty appreciated as much as 2.1 percent to 4.3094 per
euro, the steepest intraday gain since Nov. 30, 2010. It traded
1.3 percent stronger at 4.3411 versus the Europe’s common
currency as of 5:29 p.m. in Warsaw. It’s the biggest advance
among 176 world’s currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said that, in coordination with the
 Federal Reserve , the  Bank of England , the Bank of  Japan  and the
Swiss National Bank, it will conduct three U.S. dollar
liquidity-providing operations with a maturity of approximately
three months to ensure they have enough of the U.S. currency
through the end of the year.  “We have recouped the gains from the last few days and
people just ride the market,”  Nigel Rendell , a senior emerging-
market strategist at RBC Capital in  London , said by phone. The
coordinated move “certainly papers over some cracks but we are
yet to see whether the new cracks appear in the eurozone in the
coming days. Greece still has a problem with debt that needs to
be solved.”  Germany and France earlier reiterated support for Greece
helping the euro rebound. The  International Monetary Fund ,
European Central Bank and European Commission representatives
will visit Greece this week and later make a recommendation on
the release of further loans to the nation. The franc weakened
against the euro after the Swiss National Bank said it is ready
to take further steps to stop the currency from gaining.  The zloty’s 14-day relative strength index fell to 20.1
yesterday. It was the fourth day the index stayed below the 30
level that signals an asset is due for an advance. The RSI
identifies possible turning points in indexes or securities by
measuring the degree that gains and losses outpace each other in
a given time period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  