-- Ackman’s Canadian Pacific Plan Bolstered Amid Proxy Fight
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-04-20T20:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/ackman-attack-bolstered-as-canadian-pacific-ratio-worsens.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) ’s
operating expenses consumed less revenue when Fred Green became
chief executive officer than in this year’s first quarter, the
last earnings period before shareholders vote on investor
 William Ackman ’s bid to replace him.  Operating costs rose to 80.1 percent of sales in the
quarter from 79.4 percent in the same period in 2006, a month
before Green took the top job. Canada’s second-largest carrier
said today that profit more than quadrupled to C$142 million, or
82 cents a share, from C$34 million, or 20 cents.  The deteriorating ratio lends ammunition to Ackman as he
argues for replacing Green with  Hunter Harrison , who formerly
ran rival  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  Ackman’s Pershing Square
Capital Management LP owns 14 percent of  Canadian Pacific  and is
waging a proxy battle to install seven nominees on the
railroad’s 16-member board at a May meeting.  Operating ratio is a standard for measuring profit among
North American railroads. While Canadian Pacific has become the
least-efficient of the region’s large carriers during Green’s
tenure, the railroad improved train speed and other efficiency
measures last quarter as it follows a plan to boost profit.  The operating ratio improved 1,050 basis points from 90.6
percent in the same period last year, when the Calgary-based
company saw profit tumble amid foul weather.  The measure “remained somewhat elevated,” Chris Wetherbee, a New York-based analyst with Citigroup Inc., said in
a note to clients.  That “seemingly implies that improvement is
beginning but more progress is possible.”  ‘Best Winter’  Ackman said today that the first-quarter operating ratio
includes a $12 million insurance benefit and $4 million from
land sales, which the company didn’t have last year. Those give
the metric a 120 basis-point benefit, he said in an interview.  The results come “during what some people described as the
best winter in 100 years in  Canada ,” Ackman said by telephone.
“They report as progress improvement compared to the worst
winter in Canada’s history.”  Comparing this year’s operating ratio to the measure posted
six years ago doesn’t account for “the significant impact of
rising fuel prices over the last several years,” said  Ed Greenberg , the railroad’s spokesman.  Canadian Pacific gained 0.6 percent to C$76.45 at the close
of trading in Toronto. The shares have climbed 11 percent this
year.  ‘Regaining Business’  The company said last week it would post profit of 80 cents
to 83 cents a share. Sales rose 18 percent to $1.38 billion,
buoyed by gains in intermodal, grain, coal and automotive
shipments. That topped the average estimate of C$1.32 billion
from 17 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “I didn’t expect to see them regaining business the way
they did, said Jeff Kauffman, an analyst with Sterne Agee &
Leach Inc. ‘‘It’s hard to tell what’s recapturing from bad
weather a year ago versus what’s real operating change, but I
think the pleasant surprise was the volume.”  Canadian Pacific’s operating ratio has exceeded 79.4
percent in every first quarter since Green became CEO as the
economic crisis weighed on volumes and an avalanche and flooding
snarled operations, causing the rail carrier to lose market
share.  ‘Fundamental Improvements’  “Our results are more than favorable weather conditions,”
Green said on a conference call after earnings were released.
Performance in the quarter “was anchored on fundamental
improvements in our operations. Fuel efficiency, employee
productivity, equipment rents and purchased services all moved
in the right direction.”  Under the multi-year plan that Green is implementing, the
rail carrier expects to improve its operating ratio to 70
percent to 72 percent for 2014 and 68.5 percent to 70.5 percent
for 2016, Greenberg said.  Rates and the profitability mix of cargo types improved
more than 5 percent in the first quarter, and most of that gain
was from core price increases, Chief Marketing Officer Jane O’Hagan said on the call. The company expects “inflation-plus”
pricing throughout the year, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  