-- Magyar Telekom Falls Most in 3 Months on Tax: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-04-20T15:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/magyar-telekom-set-for-2-month-low-on-tax-report-budapest-mover.html
Magyar Telekom Nyrt. (MTEL) , Hungary’s
former phone monopoly, fell the most in more than three months
after news website Origo reported that the government plans to
tax phone and internet usage.  The shares of Magyar Telekom, which is controlled by
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , dropped 2.4 percent to 538 forint by the
close in Budapest, the biggest decline since Jan. 5.  The government may raise as much as 50 billion forint ($222
million) from the new tax to help plug budget holes next year
based on the  Economy Ministry ’s proposal, Origo reported, citing
unidentified people at the ministry. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
has already levied extraordinary taxes on banks, energy, retail
and telecommunication companies, forced lenders to take losses
on foreign currency mortgage loans and taken over privately
managed pension assets.  The tax report is “indirectly negative for Magyar Telekom
because it hits end consumers who may cancel their internet,
phone or mobile contracts,” Gergely Palffy, a Budapest-based
analyst at  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ’s KBC Securities unit, said in a
telephone interview today. KBC has a  sell recommendation  on the
stock and the news on the tax reinforced that view, Palffy said.  The ministry doesn’t comment on “press speculation,” the
communications office said in an e-mailed response to questions
from Bloomberg.  “We do not expect Magyar Telekom to be able to pass the
taxes on a one to one basis to its customers,” Vera Sutedja, a
Vienna-based analyst at the Erste Group Bank AG, wrote in an e-
mailed report today. “Some prices might need to be reduced, in
order to lessen the impact on customers’ bills.”  ‘Best to Sell’  Erste, which previously recommended holding the stock, put
the rating on review, according to the note, saying it is “best
to sell” the shares.  European Union governments last month partially froze
 Hungary ’s infrastructure-development aid as of 2013, giving the
country until June 22 to take “effective” action to cut its
 budget deficit  and have the sanction lifted.  “The government uses every loophole to collect revenue,”
KBC’s Palffy said.  The  International Monetary Fund  predicted April 17 that
Hungary will overshoot its budget deficit targets this year and
in 2013. The shortfall may be 3 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012 and 3.4 percent next year, according to the
IMF’s Fiscal Monitor report. The government is targeting a 2.5
percent budget gap this year and 2.2 percent in 2013.  The government is considering the introduction of more
value-added taxes to shift the tax burden to consumption, Orban
said in interview with Debrecen television station, according to
excerpts published on the station’s website yesterday.  “There have been austerity measures since 2006,” KBC’s
Palffy said. “There will be more tightening steps in one form
or another,” he said. Companies such as Magyar Telekom will be
hit via the decline in consumer demand, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  