-- Taipei Property Prices Rise to Record Amid Inflation Concerns
-- B y   J a n e t   O n g   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2012-04-20T08:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/taipei-property-prices-rise-to-record-amid-inflation-concerns.html
Taipei home prices jumped to a
record amid a recovery in demand in anticipation of accelerating
inflation as the government eased curbs on fuel price increases
and raised electricity prices.  The average price of new homes in Taipei rose to a record
NT$800,000 ($27,117) per ping, or the equivalent of 36 square
feet in March, compared with an average of NT$550,000 a year
earlier, said Stanley Su, chief analyst at Sinyi Realty Co.,
 Taiwan ’s biggest listed real estate broker.  “The low-interest rate environment coupled with
expectations of higher inflation have pushed some people into
buying high-end properties as they see these assets as more
value-sustaining,” Su said in an interview in Taipei today.  The price for a luxury home, usually of over 100 pings, in
the downtown Taipei costs about NT$2 million per ping, Su said.  President Ma Ying-jeou pledged during the election campaign
to fight real-estate speculation that led housing prices in the
capital Taipei to more than double since 2000, and reach a
record high in September. Taiwan last year introduced a 15
percent tax on homes sold within a year of purchase, and a 10
percent levy on some sold within two years.  The government this month allowed fuel prices to rise and
electricity prices are set to increase from May 15.  Wai Ho Leong and Joey Chew, economists at  Barclays Capital 
in  Singapore , raised the forecast for Taiwan consumer price
index this year to 2 percent from 1.5 percent after the fuel and
electricity increases, according to a report yesterday. The
statistics bureau last month said inflation this year may be
1.46 percent.  The island’s central bank in March held the  benchmark rate 
at 1.875 percent, as rising oil prices increase pressure for
monetary tightening. The central bank this week proposed
monitoring fluctuating housing prices as part of an inflation
watch, at a weekly meeting of a price stability taskforce,
headed by vice premier Jiang Yi-hua.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janet Ong at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net 
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ; 