-- Alabama Cities, Counties Can Go Bankrupt, High Court Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-04-20T19:35:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/alabama-supreme-court-says-municipalities-can-file-bankruptcy.html
Alabama  cities and counties without
bond debt can file for bankruptcy, the state  Supreme Court  said
in a ruling that supports Jefferson County’s entering court
protection last fall.  The ruling lays to rest one argument that creditors used to
try to get the case thrown out.  The U.S. Bankruptcy Code allows states to limit or bar
municipal bankruptcies. The Alabama  high court  ruled that state
law doesn’t require cities and counties to have outstanding
“refunding bonds or funding bonds” before entering bankruptcy.  “I think most observers have assumed this bankruptcy will
proceed,” Matt Fabian, a Connecticut-based managing director at
Municipal Market Advisors, said today in an e-mail message.
“That doesn’t mean the creditors shouldn’t keep pursuing all
their options to encourage an earlier settlement.”  Jefferson County entered bankruptcy in November after
government officials and creditors failed to implement a
tentative agreement that would have required the county’s sewer
debt, which was largely responsible for the filing, to be cut by
about $1 billion.  Since then, creditors holding more than $3 billion in sewer
warrants have argued the county’s action violated state law
because Jefferson County does not currently have any debt that
is labeled as bonds.  ‘Good News’  “It’s good news,” Jefferson County Commission President
 David Carrington  said of today’s ruling. “This decision puts
the eligibility question behind us once and for all.”  The state Supreme Court’s ruling today came in a case
involving the city of Prichard, Alabama. The legal issues were
the ones facing Jefferson County, which filed court papers
supporting the city near the southern end of the state.  “It is clear that the Legislature intended to authorize
every county, city, town and municipal authority” to file for
federal  bankruptcy protection , the court said in its decision,
made public today.  “We frankly were surprised it was ever an issue,” said
David Stern, an attorney for the county.  The judge overseeing the bankruptcy in Birmingham, Thomas B. Bennett, ruled earlier this year that Alabama law allows the
county to remain in bankruptcy. Warrant holders had appealed
that ruling and other decisions Bennett has made in favor of
Jefferson County.  The creditors’ opposition to Jefferson County’s bankruptcy
is being led by  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the trustee for
more than $3 billion in sewer debt.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for  BNY Mellon , declined to
comment.  The case is In re Jefferson County,11-05736,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 