-- Altria Bid to End Court Oversight Draws Judges’ Skepticism
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-20T17:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/altria-bid-to-end-court-oversight-draws-judges-skepticism-2-.html
Cigarette makers, including  Altria
Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris USA unit, drew skeptical questions
from a federal appeals court for their contention they shouldn’t
be bound any longer by penalties imposed in a 13-year-old case.  Judges on an appeals panel in  Washington  said today they
were “troubled” and “puzzled” by claims that a 2009 law
giving the  Food and Drug Administration  the authority to
regulate cigarette sales extinguished court oversight of three
companies found in a U.S. lawsuit to have violated the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.  “Your chances of that striking are not all that
wonderful,” U.S. Circuit Judge Laurence Silberman told a lawyer
for the companies during oral argument.  Silberman’s colleague, Circuit Judge David Sentelle added,
“You’re in here because you didn’t obey the old law.”  The defendants, which also include  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) ’s
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco and  Lorillard Inc. (LO) ’s Lorillard Tobacco
Co., are appealing a judge’s decision that court monitoring of
the industry, which resulted from the government’s 1999
racketeering case, is necessary and will continue.  U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler ruled June 1 that her
involvement with the companies wasn’t ended by a 2009 law
empowering the FDA to monitor the industry and restrict the
sale, promotion and distribution of tobacco products.  Challenge to Law  In her ruling, Kessler said the cigarette makers continue
to challenge the law that authorized the FDA’s regulation of the
industry. If they prevail, “it will be all the more necessary
for them to be restrained by this court from any future
violations” of the racketeering laws, she said.  In 2006, Kessler found that the companies violated RICO by
conspiring to hide the dangers of cigarettes. She ordered them
to stop marketing cigarettes as “light” and “low-tar” and to
make statements about the health effects of smoking in
newspapers and magazines and on cigarette packaging.  Kessler is considering so-called corrective statements
submitted to her by the Justice Department. They include health
warnings and confessions of past wrongdoing.  She said the statements are “necessary to prevent and
restrain”  tobacco companies  from “making fraudulent public
statements” on the health effects of smoking.  FDA Mandates  Miguel Estrada , the lawyer for the companies, told the
appellate judges today that the mandates imposed by the FDA
strip away the chance of future violations -- a key element to
continued court oversight.  “This current regulatory environment makes it unlikely to
violate the law even if there was opportunity to do so,” said
Estrada of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP in Washington.  He said some of the FDA rules are duplicative to
prohibitions ordered by Kessler, such as banning cigarette
makers from using the words “light” or “low tar” to market
products. Estrada said the FDA has also imposed new warning
labels for cigarettes that include statements similar to those
proposed by the  Justice Department  in the RICO case.  “To complicate things -- and you try to poo-poo this --
you’re trying to get this law stricken,” Sentelle said.  Panels of circuit judges in Washington and Cincinnati, in
two separate cases brought by tobacco companies, are deciding
whether FDA rules mandating graphic health warnings on cigarette
packaging are unlawful.  The only questions posed to the Justice Department today
had to do with whether there was any conceivable statute that
could be enacted that would make the racketeering case
irrelevant.  “It is very hard for me to imagine it given the defendants
repeated violations,” Sarang Damle, a Justice Department
lawyer, said.  The case is U.S. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., 11-5145,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the District of Columbia Circuit
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  