-- MAN First-Quarter Ebit Falls 23% on Widening Competition
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-04-20T08:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/man-first-quarter-ebit-falls-23-on-widening-competition.html
MAN SE (MAN) , the German truckmaker
controlled by car manufacturer  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , said first-quarter
operating profit fell 23 percent as competition increased in
some markets.  Earnings before interest and taxes slipped to about 250
million euros ($328 million) from 325 million euros a year
earlier, the Munich-based company said in a statement released
at the annual shareholders meeting today. Revenue rose 2.7
percent to 3.8 billion euros. MAN reaffirmed it expects 2012
sales to be “slightly” lower as global economic growth slows.  “We are feeling significant pressure on margins in the
stagnating markets, which we must and will counter with measures
to improve profitability and efficiency,” Chief Executive
Officer Georg Pachta-Reyhofen said in the prepared text of a
speech for the annual meeting in Munich.  Industrywide European truck sales have tumbled this year as
central bankers in countries using the euro predict a recession
for the region. Deliveries of heavy trucks dropped 9.2 percent
in February, according to the European Automobile Manufacturers’
Association.  The shares  dropped  as much 75 cents, or 0.7 percent, to
101.55 euros and traded at that level as of 10:19 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The stock has gained 48 percent this year, valuing
the truckmaker at 14.8 billion euros.  Volkswagen increased its stake in MAN,  Europe ’s third-
biggest truckmaker, to 73 percent of the common shares last
week. The carmaker has been accumulating control of MAN to forge
closer links with  Scania AB (SCVB) , the Swedish commercial-vehicle
manufacturer that VW also controls.  “All options” remain open for how the alliance between
Scania and MAN will be structured, VW Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Winterkorn  said yesterday in Hamburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  