-- Brazil Mantega Denies Meeting to Discuss Savings Rule Change
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-04-20T17:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/mantega-denies-meeting-in-brazil-to-discuss-savings-rule-changes.html
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido
Mantega  denied a newspaper report that he was called to a
meeting on April 23 to discuss changes to rules guaranteeing
returns for savings accounts. Yields on  interest rate  futures
pared losses.  Belo Horizonte-based newspaper Estado de Minas reported
today that President Dilma Rousseff wants to cut the benchmark
 interest rate  to 8 percent by July, which would push yields on
local bonds below government-mandated returns on savings
accounts known as poupanca, after taking into account taxes and
fees collected by asset managers.  “There is no meeting about poupanca,” Mantega told
reporters in Washington today. “With interest rates at 9
percent there isn’t a need to change the poupanca.”  The central bank this week cut the benchmark rate 0.75
percentage point to 9 percent and left the door open for further
cuts, saying that inflation risks are “limited”. The
government will need to “address very quickly” the rules on
 savings accounts  if it plans to cut the Selic rate below 8.5
percent, said  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank in Sao Paulo.  “Below 8.5 percent the saving accounts yield starts to
become more attractive than the Selic rate,” Santos said in a
telephone interview. ‘If they go further than 8.5 percent we may
see investment migration from  government bonds  to savings
accounts.’’  Yields on interest rate futures contracts pared losses
after Mantega’s remark, as traders trimmed bets on deeper rate
cuts.  Yields on the contract due in January 2014, after sliding
as much as eight basis points, dropped four points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 8.86 percent at 2:10 p.m. in  Sao Paulo .  Traders are betting the central bank will reduce the Selic
rate to at least 8.75 percent in May, matching the record low it
reached in July 2009.  Santos said he isn’t sure whether the switch from
government bonds to savings accounts would happen in practice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  