-- Argentina Seeks Petrobras Investment Amid License Impasse
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-04-20T16:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/argentina-seeks-petrobras-investment-amid-license-impasse.html
Argentina asked  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA (PETR4)  to almost double its share of the country’s oil market and
increase business with nationalized  YPF SA (YPFD)  as the Brazilian
company negotiates to revert the cancellation of a license at
Neuquen province.  Argentine Planning Minister Julio de Vido asked Petrobras
to boost its market share to 15 percent from 8 percent,
Brazilian Energy Minister Edison Lobao told reporters after a
meeting with De Vido and Petrobras Chief Executive Officer Maria
das Gracas Foster in Brasilia today. The Rio de Janeiro-based
state-run producer will match $500 million of 2011 investments
in Argentina this year and will seek to boost spending in the
country as much as possible, Lobao said.  “To the extent that we can, we will meet the requests from
Argentina,” Lobao said. “We have no reason to doubt the
Argentine government.”  Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  seized
control of YPF from Spain’s  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  this week after
several provinces revoked the company’s oil licenses to pressure
for increased investment and production. Petrobras had one of
its licenses in Neuquen canceled earlier this month.  “The challenge for Petrobras and YPF is to advance
business together,” De Vido, who was put in charge of YPF,
replacing Chief Executive Officer Sebastian Eskenazi, said after
the meeting. “We are optimistic there will be a solution,” he
said, referring to talks between Petrobras and Neuquen province
on the license cancellation.  Foster said April 17 that Petrobras was surprised at the
loss of a license in Argentina and would hold internal meetings
to discuss its investments in the country.  Chevron, Exxon  Argentina will also hold talks next week with  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  to discuss
investments in the country, De Vido said.  De Vido said his role as head of YPF lasts for 30 days and
the company will have professional management.  Argentina took control of YPF as the government seeks
to curb declining oil production after reserves fell 18 percent
between 1998 and 2010, according to data compiled by the
Argentine Oil and Gas Institute. YPF is the largest oil producer
in the country, with about 34 percent of output, Energy
Secretariat data show.  Repsol Chairman  Antonio Brufau  this week called the
expropriation of the company’s 51 percent stake in YPF illegal
and estimated Repsol’s potential loss at 5.7 billion euros ($7.5
billion).  YPF’s market value fell by more than half to 31.9 billion
pesos ($7.2 billion) yesterday from a high this year of 74.1
billion pesos on Jan. 23, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Shares have dropped 55 percent since speculation of a
takeover first emerged on Jan. 29. They were up 1.1 percent from
yesterday at 81.90 pesos at 1:19 p.m. in  Buenos Aires .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  