-- Harleysville Mutual Shareholder Vote May Proceed
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-04-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/harleysville-mutual-shareholder-vote-may-proceed.html
A Harleysville Mutual Insurance Co.
shareholder vote on its $840 million buyout by Nationwide Mutual
Insurance Co. won a go-ahead from a judge who rejected a request
from some policyholders to temporarily bar the deal.  State court judge Patricia McInerney in Philadelphia ruled
yesterday that plaintiffs in the case hadn’t met their burden
for a preliminary injunction. She took under advisement a
request to establish a constructive trust with money from
directors’ share of the deal, pending the outcome of litigation
over the proposed transaction.  “I’m basically making a finding that there is not
irreparable harm,” McInerney said.  Nationwide announced in September that it would pay $60 a
share to acquire Nasdaq-listed  Harleysville Group Inc. (HGIC)  and merge
with its majority shareholder Harleysville Mutual Insurance Co.
for no cash consideration.  Three policyholders sued over claims company directors
doubled their personal payout in the planned sale at the expense
of customers who own the parent company. Under the deal,
directors would get about $39 million from their personal
holdings in the Harleysville subsidiary, which would receive the
entire $435 million merger premium, while the majority owner and
its members get nothing.  Policyholders Aren’t Owners  Chief Executive Officer Michael Browne, a former insurance
commissioner who would get about $28 million from the sale,
testified yesterday that policyholders aren’t entitled to a
distribution because they don’t own the company.  “Policyholders are not owners in the sense of
shareholders,” Browne said. “They have member rights but
they’re not owners with control over the surplus.”  Harleysville Mutual and its subsidiary share the same
directors. Most of the executives own stock in the publicly
traded unit, while none has an economic interest in the parent
beyond that of a policyholder. Harleysville Mutual has a 54
percent interest in the unit.  Shareholders of Harleysville Group are scheduled to vote on
the transaction on April 24.  The case is Brown v. Brown, 111203220, Court of Common
Pleas, Philadelphia County (Philadelphia)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  