-- Stocks, Commodities, Euro Gain on Earnings, German Data
-- B y   D a n i e l   T i l l e s   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-04-20T20:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/asian-stocks-korean-won-drop-u-s-equity-futures-gain.html
Stocks extended a weekly advance
after earnings beat estimates at companies including General
Electric Co. and Microsoft Corp. and German business confidence
unexpectedly improved. Commodities gained and the euro
strengthened while Treasuries were little changed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.1 percent at 4
p.m. in New York, paring a gain of as much as 0.8 percent as
Bank of America Corp. slumped and Apple Inc.’s retreat since
April 9 grew to 9.9 percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
added 65.16 points. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.5 percent
and the euro appreciated 0.6 percent to $1.3212. Oil added 0.8
percent to $103.05 a barrel. Ten-year Treasury yields were
little changed at 1.96 percent after gaining three basis points.  Microsoft contributed the most to the  S&P 500 ’s advance and
GE was the fourth-biggest influence after they reported profit
that exceeded the average analyst estimate.  Germany ’s Ifo
institute said its  business climate index  rose to 109.9, a nine-
month high, adding to evidence  Europe ’s largest economy can
weather the debt crisis. Economists forecast a drop, a Bloomberg
 survey  showed.  “On the back of some weaker recent economic data, the
earnings story continues to showcase that companies can wring
out some profits here,” James Dunigan, who helps oversee $112
billion as chief investment officer in Philadelphia for PNC
Wealth Management, said in a telephone interview. “Most
companies now understand the environment, so they’ve acclimated
to a fairly modest recovery, but a recovery nonetheless. They’ve
figured out how to manage their businesses accordingly.”  Market Leaders  The S&P 500 posted a weekly gain of 0.6 percent after
slumping two straight weeks. Health-care companies, consumer-
staples stocks, utilities and telephone operators, among the
industries considered least dependent on economic growth for
earnings,  led gains  this week after reports on home sales and
jobless claims tempered optimism in the economy.  The  index (SHCOMP)  tumbled 4.3 percent from an almost four-year high
on April 2 through April 10 amid concern Europe’s debt crisis
was spreading and  China ’s economic growth was slowing. It has
rebounded 1.5 percent since then and is up almost 10 percent for
the year.  GE rose 1.2 percent after earnings were helped by profit
growth in its energy infrastructure business. First-quarter
adjusted profit of 34 cents per share was higher than the
average 33 cents estimated in a Bloomberg survey. Schlumberger
Ltd., the world’s largest oilfield-services provider, climbed
2.7 percent after profit rose 38 percent as the number of U.S.
rigs drilling for oil reached a record. Microsoft surged 4.6
percent as better-than-estimated sales of Windows and Office
software for businesses.  Earnings Season  Among other stocks rallying after reporting earnings,
Hanesbrands Inc., Honeywell International Inc. and McDonald’s
Corp. gained. SanDisk Corp. tumbled 11 percent after forecasting
second-quarter sales that fell short of some analysts’
estimates. Tempur-Pedic International Inc. sank 21 percent after
the maker of luxury mattresses reaffirmed its forecasts for
earnings and sales in 2012, which fell short of analysts’
estimates.  U.S. stocks pared gains in the afternoon as Apple and Bank
of America led technology and financial shares lower. Apple lost
2.5 percent, falling for the eight time in nine days. Bank of
America slumped 4.7 percent after  Michael Mayo , an analyst at
Credit Agricole Securities, advised selling the shares.  A Stoxx 600 gauge of banks rallied 1.1 percent to help lead
gains among the 19 industry groups.  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  gained
3.5 percent as Bank of America upgraded the shares. The Stoxx
600 rose 1.7 percent this week, following four consecutive weeks
of losses.  Euro, Pound  The euro rose 0.5 percent against the yen, climbing for the
fourth consecutive day. The pound appreciated 0.5 percent to
$1.6131 after a report showed U.K. retail sales increased at the
fastest pace for more than a year last month. The FTSE 100 Index
added 0.5 percent.  The S&P GSCI gauge of commodities gained 0.6 percent.
Copper climbed 1.9 percent to $3.7065 a pound. Copper traders
are bullish for the first time in six weeks on mounting
confidence that demand will accelerate in line with economies at
a time when mining companies are already failing to keep up with
consumption. Eleven of 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect
the metal to climb next week and 10 were neutral.  The Shanghai Composite Index in China reached its highest
level in more than a month amid speculation of a reserve ratio
cut in the coming weeks. A cut in reserve-requirement ratios may
be a first option as China eases monetary policy, the China
Securities Journal reported today, without citing anyone.
Investors expect easing even as limited loosening over the past
four months indicates leaders want to maintain a clampdown on
inflation and property prices.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets   index  drifted between gains and
losses, falling 0.1 percent at the end of the day. The  Kospi (KOSPI)  in
 South Korea  dropped 1.3 percent and  Taiex (TWSE)  in  Taiwan  retreating
1.5 percent. Russia’s Micex added 0.6 percent, as  Turkey ’s ISE
National 100 Index climbed 0.5 percent.  Europe’s governments were told the onus for fixing their
debt woes lies with them as the Group of 20 warned the two-year
crisis still threatens global growth. With finance chiefs from
the G-20 meeting today in  Washington , those from  Canada  and
 Australia  joined the IMF and U.S. in pressing Europe to
intensify efforts to quell the turmoil as it spreads to  Spain .
The G-20 cited “the situation in Europe” first in a list of
drags on the world economy, according to a draft statement
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The yield on the 10-year Spanish bond was up four basis
points at 5.96 percent after earlier rising to more than 6
percent for the third day this week, with the similar-maturity
Italian yield climbing five basis points to 5.66 percent.  Credit-default swaps on Spain touched a record and the cost
of insuring French and Italian government debt climbed to the
highest levels since January as countries struggle to tame their
budget deficits. Swaps on Spanish debt jumped as much as 16
basis points to a record 514, before reversing gains and trading
little changed at 501.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Tilles in London at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  