-- Asmussen Says ECB Must ‘Closely Monitor’ Spanish Bond Yield Rise
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-04-20T23:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/asmussen-says-ecb-must-closely-monitor-spanish-bond-yield-rise.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said that while the bank will
monitor yields on Spanish  government bonds , more ECB action
alone can’t address underlying imbalances.  “We must closely monitor the situation in the Spanish
government bond market,” Asmussen said during a speech in
Washington today. “This is no longer a problem that can be
addressed through bigger firewalls or a more active ECB.”  While the ECB has faced calls to use its Securities Markets
Program to buy Spanish government debt and curb the rise in the
country’s borrowing costs, the Frankfurt-based central bank
hasn’t used the program in the past five weeks. Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny today said the ECB deploys the
program “extremely cautiously.”  “In the Spanish case the shift in  market sentiment  is a
result of poor communication on deficit targets and delays in
announcing the budget,” Asmussen said. “Spain currently has a
credibility problem with the markets. But this can be fixed by
taking measures to regain credibility.”  Asmussen said there is no “silver bullet” that can solve
the crisis at once. Instead, a “series of comprehensive steps
taken over a number of years” is needed.  He said the ECB’s two three-year refinancing operations,
which pumped more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into the
financial system to avert a credit crunch, had helped avert a
“doomsday scenario.”  “These actions have pulled the euro area back from the
very dangerous situation we faced last year,” he said. “But
the crisis of public and private debt is clearly not over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in  Washington  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Washington at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  