-- Aspen Gains Most in 3 Years to Record on Glaxo Drugs Deal
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-20T15:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/aspen-heads-for-biggest-gain-in-5-months-on-glaxo-drugs-deal-1-.html
Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd. (APN) 
gained the most in almost three years after the southern
hemisphere’s largest drugmaker said earnings will be boosted by
the purchase of drug ranges from  GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   The stock of Johannesburg-based Aspen closed 5.9 percent
higher, the most since June 2009, at 122.89 rand in
Johannesburg, the highest since at least December 1990.  Aspen will pay 164 million pounds ($264 million) for
various Glaxo over-the-counter brands in international markets,
including  South Africa , Australia and Brazil. The acquisition,
half-funded by debt, would have added 5.5 percent to earnings
per share for the six months through December if it had been
included, the Durban-based company said in a statement today.  The products, which include Phillips Milk of Magnesia,
Dequadin, Solpadeine, Zantac and Borstol, will “provide impetus
in territories where Aspen is seeking to grow critical mass such
as  Latin America  and South East Asia”, the company said.  Today’s sale marks a year since Glaxo announced plans to
divest the brands. A person with knowledge of the sale said in
April 2011 that the assets may sell for as much as 2 billion
pounds. The total gross cash proceeds reached 981 million
pounds, excluding Alli, Glaxo said today.  In December, Glaxo sold 17 brands including digestive
helpers Beano and Gaviscon to New York-based  Prestige Brands
Holdings Inc. (PBH)  for $660 million.  While Chief Financial Officer Simon Dingemans said in
January that Alli was “not a definitive factor” in slowing
down the sale, it is the only remaining product among the assets
intended for disposal. Glaxo said today it still intends to sell
the Alli rights.  The Alli diet pill contains orlistat, a chemical that
blocks the intestines from absorbing fat when taken as often as
three times a day with meals. Orlistat has been linked to
reports of liver injury, prompting consumer groups to demand its
removal from the market. The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
announced new warnings on the pill’s label in mid-2010.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  