-- Astaldi, Salini Among 4 Bidders for Istanbul Bridge
-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2012-04-20T14:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/astaldi-salini-among-5-bidders-for-istanbul-bridge-1-.html
Astaldi SpA (AST) , Salini Costruttori SpA
of  Italy  were among four remaining bidders to build and operate
a third bridge over Istanbul’s Bosporus strait.  China
Communications Construction Co. (1800) ’s joint venture was eliminated,
the government said.  Astaldi and Salini submitted bids for the 1,275 meter-
bridge and 90 kilometers of roads to  Turkey ’s highways agency in
Ankara, Ihsan Akbiyik, head of the auction committee, told
reporters in the city today. They and the two other bidders will
be invited back in May for an auction, he said.  Turkey is trying to sell the rights for the second time
this year after receiving no bids in January. It since reduced
the project’s size and passed a law giving state guarantees for
the build-operate-transfer model, which Deputy Prime Minister
Ali Babacan said in January was valued at about $2.5 billion.  Mapa Insaat and a consortium of Cengiz Insaat, Kolin
Insaat, Limak Holding, Makyol and Kalyon Insaat were the other
companies that had initial bids accepted, Akbiyik said.  China Communications, which entered the process with
Turkish builders Yapi Merkezi, Dogus Holding AS and Arkon, said
it didn’t submit any bid in the auction. The group gave a letter
to the auction committee saying “it wasn’t possible for
the consortium to submit a bid,” it said in an e-mailed
statement. Akbiyik said the group was eliminated because it
didn’t provide the correct documents.  The committee will study the four remaining sets of bidding
documents over the next seven to 10 days before inviting back
the firms, Akbiyik said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net ; Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
3909 or  eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  