-- Auto Resin Shortage May Strike Europe, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-04-20T16:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/auto-resin-shortage-may-strike-europe-credit-suisse-says.html
Europe ’s auto production will
probably be disrupted first if carmakers can’t find alternative
resins used to make fuel systems and brake lines, according to a
Credit Suisse Group AG report.  Automakers in  North America  likely are carrying one month
of supply more than European competitors of the resin PA-12,
 Chris Ceraso , a New York-based analyst for Credit Suisse, wrote
today in the report. Global capacity to make PA-12, also called
Nylon-12, may have been cut by as much as half after the March
31 explosion at chemical maker Evonik Industries AG, he said.  “European users will be the canary in the  coal mine  for
this problem,” Ceraso wrote. Industrial customers there “are
much more likely to keep comparatively thinner inventories and
don’t have the benefit of large amounts of materials in transit.
This means that the most immediate supply disruptions are likely
to surface in Europe.”  Automakers led by  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and their suppliers are studying
ways to find and test alternative materials and avoid losing
vehicle output. A combined two to three months of resin
inventory may still be “in circulation,” according to Credit
Suisse estimates.  Evonik’s Marl,  Germany , factory made a base material used
in Nylon-12 called Cyclododecatriene or CDT. Evonik supplies CDT
to  France ’s  Arkema SA (AKE) , and the companies are two of only four
global sources of Nylon-12, Ceraso wrote. The others are
Switzerland’s  Ems-Chemie Holding AG (EMSN)  and  Japan ’s  Ube Industries
Ltd. (4208)   Europe First  “We expect that the client base impacted most by the lost
production will be primarily European-based customers, followed
to a slightly lesser extent by North American and South American
customers,” Ceraso said.  No automaker has reported canceled or slowed production as
a result of the resin shortage.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
“can rule out a supply risk at the moment,” Frank Wienstroth,
a company spokesman, said today in a telephone interview. “The
investigations have not been terminated yet,” he said.  “We are in close contact with our suppliers concerning the
current supply of plastic components and precursors,” Sebastian Wahle, a spokesman for  Daimler AG (DAI) , said in a telephone
interview.  Automakers in Japan may avoid “large-scale” disruptions
to production because suppliers recognized that PA-12 was
produced by few companies and are carrying several months’
supply, Takashi Moriwaki, a Deutsche Bank AG analyst, wrote in a
research note yesterday.  Purchasing Collaboration  Automakers and their largest suppliers may collaborate and
use their purchasing power for preferential access of the
remaining or incremental supply of Nylon-12, according to the
Credit Suisse report. Manufacturing of cars, light trucks and
heavy trucks accounts for about 55 percent of end-market use of
Nylon-12, Ceraso said.  DuPont Co. (DD) , the most valuable U.S. chemicals producer, said
yesterday it expects additional demand from automakers seeking
to work around the resin shortage. Koch Industries Inc.’s
Invista, the maker of Stainmaster carpet, also produces  CDT  and
has “limited excess capacity” to make more of the material,
said Jodie Stutzman, a spokeswoman  The explosion at Evonik’s plant poses “real and
substantial risk” to vehicle production,  Jeff Schuster , senior
vice president of forecasting at LMC Automotive, said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement.  Most Vulnerable  Auto manufacturers who may be most vulnerable to shortages
include BMW and Daimler because of their built-to-order
production system, Joe Langley, a Troy, Michigan-based analyst
with LMC Automotive, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  also are at
risk because of lean inventories, he said.  “The best indicator will be when it starts being immediate
shortages over in Europe, just because of the proximity,”
Langley said. The U.S. “will probably lag by a few weeks or
so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  