-- Azumi Says Europe Risks Renewed Crisis If It’s Not Vigilant
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-04-20T21:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/azumi-says-europe-risks-a-renewed-crisis-if-it-s-not-vigilant.html
Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi 
said Europe must remain vigilant even after Group of 20 nations
pledged an additional $430 billion to the  International Monetary
Fund  to help the region contain its debt crisis.  “As Spain’s situation shows, they risk a renewed crisis if
they’re not vigilant,” Azumi told reporters in Washington today
after meeting with his G-20 counterparts. “The non-European
countries have now pledged assistance of this scale, so if it
turns out that this amount is insufficient, this time the
Europeans will need to step up their efforts.”  Governments committed more than $430 billion in fresh money
to the IMF to help it protect the world economy against
deepening debt turmoil in  Europe . Spanish notes have extended
the longest run of weekly declines since January 2007,
reflecting renewed concern over Europe’s ability to contain its
now two-year debt crisis.  While the IMF’s safety net “buys some time, the countries
need to push forth structural reforms and rehabilitate their
finances,” Azumi said.  Japan  was among the first non-euro area nations to pledge
additional money to the IMF, announcing a $60 billion commitment
on April 17 ahead of the meetings in Washington. Of those making
contributions public, euro-area nations pledged the most with
about 150 billion euros, followed by Japan. The U.K.,  South
Korea  and Saudi Arabia will each give about $15 billion.  Azumi said he spent the past two days in the city
encouraging officials from other nations to follow suit and that
European officials thanked him for Japan’s early announcement.  Japan also asked to have a larger voice within the IMF to
match its increased contribution and would also like to send
more young officials from the  Bank of Japan (8301)  and the Finance
Ministry to work at the fund, Azumi added today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Washington at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  