-- Baht Has Weekly Decline on Concern Global Recovery Is Stalling
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-04-20T08:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/baht-has-weekly-decline-on-concern-global-recovery-is-stalling.html
Thailand ’s baht had a weekly
decline as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will stall the global
economic recovery damped demand for emerging-market assets.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of shares dropped for a second
day after investors sought higher yields on  Spain ’s bonds at an
auction yesterday and claims for jobless benefits in the U.S.
rose more than forecast. The baht has lost 0.3 percent this
month as exchange data showed global funds sold $63 million more
Thai stocks than they bought through April 18.  “Lingering concerns about the European debt crisis and a
slowing U.S. recovery are making it a bit hard to add risk
positions,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a Bangkok-based trader at
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. “Foreign investors aren’t buying
Thai stocks lately and are staying on the sidelines.”  The baht retreated 0.4 percent this week and 0.1 percent
today to 30.93 per dollar as of 3:39 p.m. in Bangkok, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency may trade between
30.65 and 31 next week, Hasegawa said.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of foreign-exchange
swings used to price options, was little changed this week and
today at 4.52 percent.  Losses in the baht will be limited as exporters may sell
the dollar at about 31 to convert income, Hasegawa said.
Overseas shipments rose 0.1 percent in March from a year earlier
after increasing 0.9 percent in February, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey before
government data due next week.  The yield on the government’s 3.25 percent bonds due June
2017 dropped nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to
3.52 percent this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It rose one basis point today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 