-- Berkshire’s Hambrick Expects $10 Billion of Sales
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-04-20T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/berkshire-s-hambrick-expects-10-billion-of-sales.html
Lubrizol Corp. Chief Executive
Officer James Hambrick plans to increase revenue by about 60
percent at the chemical maker as he sets goals under the new
ownership of Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   “There’s no reason in my mind why we shouldn’t be a $10
billion company,” Hambrick, 57, said in a phone interview 
yesterday from Wickliffe,  Ohio , where Lubrizol is based. 
“Warren and I talked about that.”  Buffett, 81, empowers Berkshire’s top managers to help
invest the roughly $1 billion of profit that the company’s
operating subsidiaries generate each month. The billionaire said
in February that Lubrizol will have “many opportunities for
bolt-on acquisitions.” Hambrick has already struck at least
three deals since the chemical maker was acquired by Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire in September for about $9 billion.  “We’re always hopeful to do one or two or three a year at
a reasonable size,” Hambrick said. “Sometimes it doesn’t
happen and sometimes you do more than that.”  Since becoming CEO in 2004, Hambrick has  tripled Lubrizol’s
revenue  to about $6.2 billion as he acquired products such as
hair-gel polymer and skin-care additives, and expanded in  Latin
America  and  Asia . He said he plans to pursue a similar strategy
to reach $10 billion of annual sales, with an emphasis on
acquisitions for the advanced-materials unit.  About  70 percent  of the company’s revenue in 2010, before
the Berkshire deal, came from lubricant additives, which deliver
specialty chemicals to the surfaces inside engine cylinders,
drive trains, transmissions and similar rotating metal parts.
Gross profit is 35 percent of sales in the unit, and demand
grows about 2 percent a year, Hambrick said.  Faster Growth  The gross margin is 25 percent in advanced materials, which
makes additives for skin-care products and acrylic resins for
specialty coatings. While the margin is narrower than lubricant
additives, growth is two to four times faster, he said.  Hambrick plans to boost sales in the advanced-materials
business to about $1 billion each through a combination of
organic growth and acquisitions. Increasing sales will make
margins on par with lubricant additives, he said.  “As we get bigger we will naturally generate economies of
scale that will bring those two in line,” Hambrick said.  Lubrizol has agreed to  acquire  businesses including Active
Organics Inc., a supplier of cosmetics ingredients. The total
cost of the three announced deals was  $493 million , Buffett said
in his annual letter to shareholders in February.  ‘On the Prowl’  Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and CEO, said in the same
letter that he’s “on the prowl” for large acquisitions after
record earnings at his company’s railroad and energy units
helped build cash holdings. He praised Hambrick and other
managers for acquisitions that bolstered Berkshire, which
comprises more than 70 operating businesses selling everything
from ice cream to underwear.  “James is a disciplined buyer and a superb operator,”
Buffett said, adding that he and Berkshire Vice Chairman Charles Munger are “eager to expand his managerial domain.”  Hambrick said he and Buffett talk “a couple times a
month” over the phone and in person and have “good, robust
discussions.” Buffett has a streamlined process for talking
about acquisitions, he said.  “Warren makes it pretty easy,” Hambrick said. “It didn’t
take very long for either one of us to get right into a good
dance step.”  Buffett’s Management  Buffett has built Berkshire using a management style that
thrives on relationships and trust. Even as the company grew to
employ more than  a quarter-million people , he continues to
directly oversee the heads of all the operating units. Munger
said at a press conference last year that the model of oversight
differs from the standards taught in business schools and joked
that some of Buffett’s direct reports actually “don’t report.”  “Talk to me about what is going on as little or as much as
you wish,” Buffett said in a  2010 letter  to Berkshire managers,
whom he dubbed “the All-Stars.”  “Each of you does a first-class job of running your
operation with your own individual style and you don’t need me
to help,” Buffett wrote. “The only items you need to clear
with me are any changes in post-retirement benefits and any
unusually large capital expenditures or acquisitions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  