-- Best Rally Since February on Easing Prospects: China Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-04-23T01:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/best-rally-since-february-on-easing-prospects-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities in the U.S.
extended their longest stretch of gains since February on
speculation policy makers will make further cuts to banks’
reserve  requirements  to bolster lending and spur growth.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. was little changed at 103.31 in New
York on April 20, leaving its third weekly advance at 0.1
percent.  Futures on the CSI 300 Index expiring in May, the most
active contract, were little changed at 2,636.80 as of 9:18 a.m.
local time in Shanghai. HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
are scheduled to release their preliminary manufacturing index
for this month, known as the Flash PMI, at 10:30 a.m. today. It
was at 48.3 in March, below the 50 threshold for expansion.  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , a security software developer,
rose the most on the Bloomberg China index last week after
issuing a  filing  that showed auditors had consented to its 2010
and 2011 financial statements.  Huaneng Power International Inc. (600011) ,
the listed unit of China’s largest electricity producer, traded
at the highest premium over  Hong Kong  shares since April 12.  Banks from Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. to Nomura Holdings
Inc. are predicting China’s central bank may reduce the amount
lenders have to keep in reserve at some point over the next few
weeks, as the government envisions the slowest pace of economic
growth since 2004 this year. The three-week rally in Chinese
U.S.-listed stocks has boosted their average valuation to 19
times estimated earnings, compared with 6.6 times for an  index 
of Russian companies traded in New York.  Cash Availability  “There are signs the two reserve bank requirement cuts
since November are working, and that’s made investors optimistic
another cut is coming,”  Alec Young , a global equity strategist
at S&P Capital IQ in New York, said by phone on April 20. “The
loans really picked up a lot in March which showed it was
working.”  New yuan-denominated loans issued in China in March were
the most in a year.  The People’s Bank of China has been reducing reserve
requirements to free up cash for lending and help insulate the
world’s second-biggest economy from a global slowdown. The
regulator pledged to ensure adequate availability of cash in the
financial system by using tools including cuts to reserve
ratios, the official Xinhua News Agency reported on April 19,
citing an unidentified person at the monetary authority.  The  IShares FTSE China Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 1.6 percent to $38 in New
York last week. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 0.6
percent in the week to 1,378.53 as profits from companies
including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  beat median
analyst estimates.  Beijing-based Qihoo surged 10 percent last week to $24.02
in New York. The American depositary receipts fell 0.3 percent
on April 20, after jumping 17 percent on the previous day.  Qihoo Filing  Qihoo issued a filing on April 19 that showed auditor
 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  consented to its financial statements
for 2010 and 2011. Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu said the company’s
“consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position” of Qihoo as of Dec.
31, 2010 and 2011, according to the filing.  Deloitte also said that Qihoo “is not required to have,
nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control
over financial reporting,” according to the filing.  ‘Function of the Market’  “The auditors are so wary of anything based in  China  that
they want to cover themselves, so there’s this necessity for
qualified statements,” said  Francis Gaskins , president of
Marina Del Rey, California-based IPOdesktop, which monitors
initial public offerings. “This company actually has good top-
line revenue. It’s a real company with sequential increases in
revenue and profit.”  Qihoo refuted in an April 3 statement allegations against
it by firms including short seller Citron Research, which has
disputed Qihoo’s sources of revenue in reports since November.  “Citron Research has some following but I think the stock
has gone up and down mostly as a function of the market,” said
Josef Schuster, founder of IPOX Schuster LLC, an investment firm
based in Chicago with about $2.5 billion under management.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883) , a Macau casino operator,
climbed to an eight-month high in New York last week after
Morgan Stanley said it expects the Hong Kong-based company to
report a rise in first-quarter earnings. Melco is scheduled to
report results on May 18.  Melco’s ADRs rose 1.8 percent on April 20 to $15.58 in New
York, bringing their weekly advance to 9.1 percent. The
company’s shares in Hong Kong added 8.6 percent to $HK41.80, or
the equivalent of $5.39.  Consumer Model  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 1.2 percent on April 20
to 2,406.86 to post a 2 percent advance for the week. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in Hong
Kong was little changed at 11,050.16.  Huaneng Power jumped 3.3 percent to $23.43 in the U.S., and
was up 4.4 percent in the week. The ADRs traded at a 0.6 percent
premium over its shares listed in Hong Kong, which gained 3.7
percent last week to $HK4.52.  “As China transitions to a more consumer model of growth,
companies that depend on domestic consumption will be the big
beneficiaries,”  Jerome Booth , head of research at Ashmore
Investment Management with $60 billion of assets in  emerging
markets , said in a phone interview on April 20 from  London .
“People are feeling more confident about Chinese growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  