-- BOE’s Haldane Says Officials May Need to Curb Bank-Asset Pledges
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-04-20T10:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/boe-s-haldane-says-officials-may-need-to-curb-bank-asset-pledges.html
Bank of England official  Andrew
Haldane  said regulators may need to consider limits on how much
a bank may pledge in assets to investors.  Investor concerns on safety have stoked demands for secured
finance, Haldane said in a speech in Berlin on April 14 at
an Institute for New Economic Thinking conference.  Video  of his
presentation is on the INET website and the U.K. central bank is
to publish the speech April 24.  “The unsecured market has found itself squeezed” as more
creditors seek collateral, said Haldane, the bank’s
executive director for financial stability. “It results in
banks’ balance sheets progressively becoming more encumbered.”  Banks in the euro area have to refinance about $1.1
trillion this year, most of which is unsecured, he said. So far
this year the share that’s been refinanced in the unsecured
market “has been miniscule” with “a good chunk of it” done
through the  European Central Bank ’s Longer Term Refinancing
Operations.  “They are signing away their assets to an increasing
number of investors,” he said. “Those assets cannot be signed
away indefinitely.”  He also said regulators may need to address “quote
stuffing,” where traders submit orders that are quickly
canceled and so not executable. The practice uses up bandwidth,
and gives a false impression of market liquidity.  Officials may need to consider restricting order
cancellations and creating “circut breakers that sit across the
system as a whole,” he said. “We might require traders in
financial markets to commit to provide liquidity, trade
continuity, price continuity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  