-- Canada Inflation Falls Below Central Bank’s 2% Target
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-04-20T13:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/canada-inflation-falls-below-central-bank-s-2-target.html
Canada ’s  inflation  rate fell in
March to less than the central bank’s 2 percent target for the
first time in 18 months as food and energy prices rose at a
slower pace.  The  consumer price index  climbed 1.9 percent in March from
a year ago, after a 2.6 percent gain the prior month, Statistics
Canada said today from Ottawa. The  core  rate, which excludes
eight volatile items, increased 1.9 percent, less than
February’s 2.3 percent year-over-year increase. The core matched
the median projection in a Bloomberg News survey, while overall
consumer costs rose less than the 2 percent forecast.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said April 18 that
inflation will slow after the first quarter, then remain at
about 2 percent through 2014. The central bank raised its
inflation outlook from its January forecast because of a gain in
 oil prices  and reduced slack in the economy, adding that an
increase in the policy  interest rate  “may become appropriate.”  The report “is generally consistent with the Bank of
Canada’s forecasts that they released this week,” said  Paul Ferley , assistant chief economist at Royal Bank of Canada in
Toronto. “The timing of any return to tightening mode will be
more determined by pace of growth in the economy.”  Investors have almost fully priced in a 25-basis-point
central bank interest rate rise by the end of the year,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on overnight index
swaps trading. Canada’s dollar pared gains after the report. It
advanced 0.4 percent to 99.18 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 9:25 a.m.
in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0083.  Energy Increases Slow  Gasoline prices rose 6.6 percent in March from a year ago
following an 8.9 percent gain in February. Electricity costs
rose 5.3 percent after a February rise of 8.7 percent.  The pace of food inflation slowed by almost half, to 2.2
percent in March from February’s 4.1 percent. Fresh vegetable
costs dropped 15.8 percent, the most since April 2008.  “Consumers remain cautious and their search for value is
reflected in increased promotional sales,” grocery-store chain
Metro Inc.’s Chief Executive Officer Eric La Fleche said on an
April 18 earnings call. Montreal-based Metro is Canada’s third-
biggest grocer.  The March result brought average inflation in the first
quarter to 2.3 percent, slower than the central bank’s 2.4
percent estimate. The bank also forecast inflation will average
2 percent in the April-June period, before rising at a 2.2
percent pace in the last six months of the year.  On a monthly basis, total  inflation  rose 0.4 percent in
March and the core rate advanced 0.3 percent. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predicted total monthly inflation would
rise 0.5 percent and the core rate would advance 0.3 percent.  Seasonally adjusted inflation rose 0.2 percent in March and
the adjusted core rate gained 0.1 percent. Both results matched
economist forecasts.  Statistics Canada  also said today its  index  of leading
economic indicators climbed 0.4 percent in March, the ninth
consecutive gain, led by a 0.6 percent increase in the housing
component.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  