-- Canada’s Currency Rallies as March CPI Matches Forecast
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-04-20T21:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/canadian-dollar-gains-on-speculation-cpi-will-back-carney.html
Canada ’s dollar gained versus its
U.S. counterpart after consumer prices almost matched forecasts
for March, bolstering speculation the Bank of Canada will move
forward its timetable for raising  interest rates .  The currency gained 0.7 percent this week versus the
greenback, the most in seven weeks, after Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  said the removal of stimulus may be
“appropriate,” given stronger growth and inflation. Equities
were higher after German business confidence unexpectedly rose.
The March consumer price index was up 1.9 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a forecast for a 2 percent increase.  “It’s slightly higher today on a risk sentiment move,”
said  John Curran , senior vice president in Toronto at
CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer, in a
telephone interview. “It should be stronger than it actually
is. It’s losing ground on the crosses,” he said, referring to
non- U.S. dollar  trades.  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, advanced 0.3
percent to 99.24 cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0077.  Bonds Fall  Benchmark government  10-year government  bonds fell for a
second day, pushing the yield up one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.06 percent. The 3.25 percent securities
maturing in June 2021 fell 13 cents to C$109.86.  Federal bonds have lost 0.7 percent this year, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Odds of an increase in the central bank’s target lending
 rate  by the October meeting were about 64 percent today after
the inflation data, according to Bloomberg calculations on
overnight index swaps. They were about 19 percent on April 16,
the day before the  Bank of Canada  suggested higher borrowing
costs may be necessary to contain consumer debt levels.  Canada’s economy will grow at a 2.5 percent annualized pace
this quarter, up from a January estimate of 1.8 percent, the
Bank of Canada said in a quarterly policy report this week.
Inflation will average 2 percent through June, higher than a
previous estimate of 1.5 percent.  “The domestic market and even the trading market are quite
comfortable with the economics of Canada,” said  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA) 
in Toronto, in a telephone interview. “People are also selling
dollar-Canada on the back of improved global sentiment.”  Currency Outlook  The loonie will appreciate to 98 cents by the end of 2012,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  The March CPI gain followed a 2.6 percent rise in February,
 Statistics Canada  said today from Ottawa. The core rate, which
excludes eight volatile items, also slipped to 1.9 percent from
2.3 percent. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast 2 percent
total inflation and core inflation of 1.9 percent.  “The deviation from expectations was fairly minor,” said
 Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) 
in Toronto, in a telephone interview. “We’ve been in a very
tight trading range, but there are some very early signs we’re
getting close to a break out to the downside for dollar-
Canada,” meaning the Canadian dollar would appreciate.  Statistics Canada also said its index of leading economic
indicators rose 0.4 percent in March, the ninth consecutive
gain, led by a 0.6 percent increase in the housing component.  The Canadian dollar is up 0.7 percent during the past three
months, the fourth most among 10 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. It’s up 0.6 percent this
year after dropping 1.8 percent last year, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  