-- Capital One Profit Rises as Credit-Card Rewards Drive Spending
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-20T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/capital-one-profit-rises-as-credit-card-rewards-drive-spending.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the
lender that purchased  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s online U.S. bank this year,
reported a 37 percent increase in first-quarter profit as
credit-card rewards programs fueled customer spending.  Net income  rose 37 percent to $1.4 billion, or $2.72 a
share, from $1.02 billion, or $2.21, a year earlier and included
an accounting gain of $594 million tied to the purchase of ING
Direct USA, Capital One said yesterday in a statement. Adjusted
profit of $1.56 a share beat the $1.39 average estimate of 24
analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank, 61, has spent
more than $28 billion on acquisitions since 2005 to expand
beyond the firm’s core credit-card business. The deals have
 transformed  the McLean, Virginia-based company into the sixth-
biggest U.S. commercial bank by deposits, capped by this year’s
purchase of ING Direct.  The lender is focused on integrating its acquisitions and
“distributing capital to shareholders through a meaningful
 dividend  and share buybacks, consistent with our long-standing
commitment to maintaining a strong and resilient capital base,”
Fairbank said in the statement. The company has distributed a 5-
cent quarterly payout since February 2009.  Capital One advanced 1.1 percent to $54.50 in extended
trading in  New York  yesterday after announcing the results. The
shares had advanced 28 percent this year, compared with a 21
percent gain for the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   Customer Refunds  The lender set aside $75 million in reserves to refund
credit-card customers who bought products from telephone sales
people who didn’t obey company policy over the past “couple of
years,” Fairbank said in a conference call with analysts.  The refunds are for “instances in which phone sales people
didn’t adhere to our scripts and sales policy when cross-selling
products,” Fairbank said. The policies are “in place to ensure
that our sales practices meet our standards and unfortunately
this didn’t happen in some cases,” he said. “It’s very
important that we make sure that all of our customers have
bought the products in the context that we exactly intended.”  Fairbank, who said the lender will contact customers,
didn’t elaborate about the products or practices. The agents
were vendors and not bank employees,  Tatiana Stead , a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail after the conference call ended.  First quarter revenue rose 21 percent to $4.94 billion,
including the accounting gain and $160 million from the sale of
Visa Inc. stock and reserve adjustments, the company said.  HSBC Credit Cards  The purchase of ING Direct in February added $84.4 billion
in deposits, Capital One said in a slide presentation. The
company has said it expects to complete the acquisition of  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s U.S. credit-card portfolio this quarter after
selling $1.26 billion in stock last month to help pay for it.  “Results were strong this quarter even outside of
acquisitions, and we expect strong performance ahead as the
company digests both ING/HSBC deals,” RBC Capital Markets
analyst Jason Arnold wrote in a note to clients.  Noninterest expense climbed 16 percent to $2.5 billion from
the first quarter of 2011 and fell 4.4 percent from the fourth
quarter, according to the statement. Salaries and benefits rose
20 percent to $891 million and marketing costs increased 16
percent to $321 million.  Fairbank is seeking to control costs after fourth-quarter
profit missed analysts’ estimates as noninterest expense rose 25
percent. Those results, announced Jan. 19, surprised investors
and prompted at least six analysts to ask for clarity on the
company’s expenses during a conference call.  Venture Card  The lender gave away 1 billion reward miles in 31 days
after introducing a promotion in March for its Venture Card,
which offered customers double miles for every dollar spent, up
to 100,000, according to a statement. Credit-card rewards miles
or points typically are worth about 1 cent each.  Julie Rakes , a Capital One spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement earlier this week that the lender has started cutting
500 assistant tellers and reorganized its retail bank,
consolidating 14 regions into eight.  “As you can imagine, in this challenging economic
environment, the bank requires a leaner and more efficient
operating model,” Rakes said.  Capital One said in a regulatory filing last month that
first-quarter profit from continuing operations would be at
least $2.50 a share, including an accounting gain of $1.15 from
the ING purchase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  