-- McDonnell Won’t Credit Obama for Virginia Economy (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-04-20T20:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/mcdonnell-won-t-credit-obama-for-virginia-economy-transcript-.html
Virginia ’s Republican governor, Bob
McDonnell, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital With Al Hunt,” airing this weekend, that
President Barack Obama can’t take credit for the state’s 5.6
percent jobless rate, though he deserves blame for the national
rate of 8.2 percent.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Virginia Governor Bob
McDonnell. He joins us now from Richmond.  Governor, thank you for being with us. I want to talk about
your state. There may be no more purple state in America than
Virginia as we approach this year’s elections. The jobless rate
in your state has dropped from 7.3 percent a couple years ago to
5.7 percent today. That’s good news for  Barack Obama , isn’t it?  BOB MCDONNELL: Well, it’s 5.6 percent today, but I would
say that as long as the unemployment rate nationally remains
over 8.2 percent, which it has for 38 months, the entire
presidency, that’s not good news.  I think there are some reasons why Virginia is doing
better. It’s a bipartisan effort, I think, largely because of
our state policies and our great free-enterprise leaders here in
Virginia. So I guess the voters will have to decide who gets the
credit, but I can certainly point to some things we’ve done that
have helped in that area.  And we’re just positive about business. I think in
 Washington , D.C., a lot of people are talking down about
business.  HUNT: But he gets - the president gets the blame in states
where it’s high, but he doesn’t get the credit in states where
it’s low?  MCDONNELL: Well, I think as long as you can point to a
reason that there’s a national policy that has led to that
decline in the  unemployment rate , then I think it’s - it’s fair.
But, no, overall, with the unemployment going down, I’m all for
it. It’s good for America. But I just think 8.2 percent
nationally, Al, is just unacceptable.  HUNT: Let me ask you this. Most of Governor Romney’s top
economic advisers and his policies are strikingly similar to
 George W. Bush ’s: cut taxes, change entitlements, cut spending.
Would we be better off with Bush 43 economic policies than Obama
economic policies?  MCDONNELL: We’d be better off with somebody who actually
knows how to create jobs and who will actually take decisive
action to get us out of debt. We’re in the worst fiscal shape
this country has ever been in, $16 trillion in debt and a
chronic unemployment rate. We’re recovering slower than  Europe 
and other - other Western countries because I think our policies
for jobs and energy are just anemic with this White House.  HUNT: Is that a yes or would we be better off under -  MCDONNELL: I would say Romney’s got his own policies and
vision.  HUNT: - or would we be better off with Bush 43 policies?  MCDONNELL: Well, I - I would - I would say it’s Romney
policies that are going to make a difference, because he
believes that the way you stimulate  job creation  is you get the
- you get things out of the way like high taxes, high
regulation, more litigation, and more unionization.  HUNT: All right, Governor, let me ask you about Hispanics.
They’re 4 percent or 5 percent of the vote in Virginia. You
courted them in the last election, but your party has a real
problem nationally. Should Republicans support proposals by
Senator Marco Rubio to give non-immigrants visas to those who
are qualified to stay or work or study in the  United States ?  MCDONNELL: I haven’t looked at the senator’s proposal. I
think we ought to do a couple things. One, realize and welcome
more lawful immigration to America. We’ve had these artificial
federal caps that don’t make any - any sense, and we’re training
a lot of great, bright people from other countries, and then
they go back home, because they can’t stay here. We should fix
that guest-worker visa problem.  Secondly, we should have good  law enforcement  in the
country so people who commit crimes who are illegal go back to
their country.  But, thirdly, as long as we have a vibrant economy here,
we’re going to make this a good, welcoming country for people
from other - other - other countries. Right now, we can’t do
that.  HUNT: You are a military veteran. Military service has been
very important to your family. Should those undocumented Latinos
who are risking his or her life in  Afghanistan , should they have
a pathway to citizenship when they come back?  MCDONNELL: Well, here’s what I can tell you. Lawful
immigration is what we should embrace more of, 70 million, 80
million. With regard to people that are illegal and that break
the law and come here, I think that’s - the challenge is, Al, is
what you - you - you get more of whatever you subsidize. And if
we find ways to basically have a - a policy of amnesty on an
ongoing basis, I don’t think we’ll ever solve our immigration
problems. We tried that in 1986, and it didn’t work, so -  HUNT: Will you give that Afghan veteran a pathway to
citizenship?  MCDONNELL: Well, you’re - you’re getting into what we call
in law school hard cases make bad law. You know, of course
people that have fought for our country should get some - some
special consideration. I think that’s probably absolutely
correct.  HUNT: And that’s a pathway to citizenship?  MCDONNELL: But - well, what I don’t think we should do is
to say, if you come here for some period of time and just
because you haven’t gotten caught that we should automatically
allow you to become a citizen. There’s a broader problem, and
the broader problem, Al, is no good border security.  HUNT: Governor, the reason I’m asking this, because as you
know, your party does have a problem. NBC-Wall Street Journal
poll out on Friday shows Governor Romney losing Latino vote by
69 to 22, much worse than  John McCain . Now, that’s more than a
public relations problem.  MCDONNELL: Yeah, but, Al, that - but I don’t think it’s
because of immigration policies. I mean, we’re - I think we
embrace comprehensive immigration reform, starting with border
security.  I tell you what Hispanics in Virginia tell me they want.
They want access to the American dream. That’s why they come
here to Virginia and to America, so they want more opportunities
to start small business, better schools -  HUNT: So why are they so down on  Mitt Romney  then?  MCDONNELL: Well, because the general election really hasn’t
started yet. They don’t really know what Mitt Romney’s policies
are. We’ve - Mitt Romney’s only been the - for - the putative
candidate now for - our nominee for a couple of weeks.  I think that’s going to tighten up dramatically, because
Hispanics in Virginia primarily are Catholic, so they’re pro-
family, they’re pro-life. They’re hard-working. They want
opportunities in small business. That’s Mitt Romney’s message. I
think the more they hear from him, the better Mitt Romney does.  HUNT: All right. Let me ask you another subject. You signed
a bill that would require all women considering abortion in
Virginia to undergo an abdominal ultrasound, but not the more
invasive transvaginal ultrasound. Now, some anti-abortion
advocates say you got squishy, you got cold feet, and you
reversed your position and didn’t sign that original tough bill.  MCDONNELL: Well, not at all. I’ve been a pro-life
legislator and governor for 20 years now. I think the more we
embrace the culture of life and respect life, the better that we
do.  The bill that we amended this year was actually my original
bill 12 years ago, to put a good informed consent bill in for
abortion. And all I did was to say, look, we ought to join 23
other states that have a ultrasound law, some form of it, so
that a woman gets all the medical and clinical and legal
information she needs before she makes perhaps the most
important decision of her life.  So I think it was the right balance. We signed the bill
into law and joined 23 states that have some form of ultrasound
law now.  HUNT: Well, let me turn it around then. If the TSA pat-
downs are too invasive, why should the government - the
government mandate an abdominal ultrasound that the state might
not even pay for? Shouldn’t that be a private choice for a woman
and her doctor?  MCDONNELL: Well, the truth is that, in almost all the cases
already, these ultrasounds are already required for medical
reasons to determine gestational age and to determine health
issues. So that really wasn’t the important part of the bill.  The important part, really, is to be able to show the woman
the ultrasound, along with all the other medical information.
That’s what’s not being done. And that’s what can actually
provide the information for fully effective, informed consent.  HUNT: Suppose she and doctor don’t think that’s necessary.
You would still mandate it, though, right?  MCDONNELL: Well, again, it’s in a - it’s in a fairly small
minority of cases where it’s not being performed. But this is
the policy that the legislature set. I thought it was the right
policy. But it was one bill out of 860, Al. Most of what we
focused on was jobs and schools and roads -  HUNT: OK, fair point.  MCDONNELL: - and energy, the kitchen-table issues that men
and women in Virginia care about.  HUNT: Governor - Governor McDonnell, thank you so much for
being with us today. Hope to visit with you again soon.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<610708.1204164.2.1.99.7.25>#
 