-- McDonald’s Profit Climbs 4.8% as New Items Drive Sales
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-04-20T20:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/mcdonald-s-profit-climbs-4-8-as-new-items-drive-sales.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, reported a 4.8 percent gain in first-
quarter profit as new menu items such as Chicken McBites
attracted U.S. consumers.  Net income advanced to $1.27 billion, or $1.23 a share,
from $1.21 billion, or $1.15, a year earlier, the  Oak Brook ,
Illinois-based company said today in a statement. Analysts
 projected  $1.23, the average of 26 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  McDonald’s, which last month named Don Thompson to the CEO
position starting in July, has sought to draw Americans with new
and limited-time items, such as McCafe drinks and white-meat
Chicken McBites. Sales at U.S. stores open at least 13 months
rose 8.9 percent in the quarter. Analysts projected 8.3 percent,
the average of 22 estimates compiled by Consensus Metrix.  “McDonald’s is taking market share just because their
restaurants are more up-to-date, more modern and cleaner” than
competitors, Peter Saleh, an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in
 New York , said in an interview. McCafe beverages, which are a
“growing category,” are also helping boost sales, he said.  The  shares  climbed 0.7 percent to $95.94 at the close in
New York. McDonald’s has declined 4.4 percent this year.  The Big Mac seller, which plans to open 1,300 new stores
this year, compared with 1,150 last year, also is updating
stores to help lure customers. The company will spend about
$1.45 billion to remodel about 2,400 stores this year,
McDonald’s said in filing today.  Global Sales  McDonald’s comparable-store sales increased 7.3 percent
globally in the first quarter, compared with the 6.7 percent
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Consensus Metrix, a
researcher owned by Wayne, New Jersey-based Kaul Advisory Group.
Comparable-store sales advanced 5.5 percent in McDonald’s  Asia ,
Pacific,  Middle East  and Africa region, trailing estimates for a
gain of 5.9 percent.  April same-store sales will rise about 4 percent globally,
the company said in the statement. Comparable-store sales are
considered an indicator of a retailer’s growth because they
include only older locations.  “Ongoing economic challenges and severe weather in
February negatively impacted”  Europe , McDonald’s said in the
statement. Same-store sales in that region rose 5 percent in the
quarter, compared with an estimate for growth of 4.2 percent.
McDonald’s gets about 40 percent of its  revenue  from stores in
Europe.  McDonald’s will continue to focus on selling nutritional
food, core menu items and premium products, Thompson said during
a conference call today with analysts. At McDonald’s, “a change
in leadership doesn’t mean a change in strategy,” he said.  Revenue increased 7.1 percent to $6.55 billion. Analysts
estimated $6.54 billion, on average.  McDonald’s has more than 33,500 locations worldwide, of
which about 80 percent are franchised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  