-- Cencosud Rebounds from Cheapest Since August: Santiago Mover
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-04-20T19:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/cencosud-rebounds-from-cheapest-since-august-santiago-mover.html
Cencosud SA (CENCOSUD)  rose the most in four
months as Banco Santander SA recommended buying the stock after
it reached the cheapest level versus peers in eight months amid
concern that Argentine government policies will erode profit.  Chile’s biggest retailer, which gets a quarter of its
earnings from Argentina, jumped 4 percent to 3,095 pesos in
Santiago, the steepest increase since Nov. 30.  Santander added Cencosud to its list of favorite Latin
American stocks “due to its mix of valuation and continued
strong consumer momentum in the Andean region,” Santander
analysts Jesus Gomez and Stefano Rizzi said today in a note to
clients. A planned new share sale and exposure to Argentina
“are fully reflected at current levels,” they said.  Cencosud traded at 17.8 times estimated profit on April 17
when  Chile ’s benchmark index fetched 16.6. The 1.16 difference
is the smallest since August, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The premium increased to 1.85 today.  The stock fell 9.4 percent between April 2, when
speculation began about the nationalization of Argentine oil
company  YPF SA (YPFD) , and April 18, two days after Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner announced the decision. In the same period Chilean
peers  SACI Falabella (FALAB)  and  Ripley Corp SA (RIPLEY)  both slid 5.7 percent.  The underperformance is explained by Cencosud’s Argentine
operations and the company’s plans to sell as many as 270
million new shares, Adolfo Ortuzar, an analyst at Santander’s
Chilean unit said by telephone on April 16.  Cencosud, which operates more than 300 supermarkets and
home-improvement stores in  Argentina , is preparing to sell the
new shares in Chile and the U.S. Part of that money may be
required to exercise an option to acquire a 29 percent stake in
its Argentine supermarket unit from UBS AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  