-- Chesapeake CEO Loans Block Upgrade Aspiration: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-04-20T16:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/chesapeake-ceo-loans-block-upgrade-aspiration-corporate-finance.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  says the second-largest U.S.
gas producer is on track to be in investment-grade shape by the
end of this year. The  bond market  is pointing the opposite way.  Credit-default swaps tied to the Oklahoma City-based
company’s debt surged to levels that imply it should only be
rated B2, according to Moody’s Corp.’s  capital markets  research
group. Moody’s Investors Service rates Chesapeake Energy senior
unsecured debt Ba3, and  Standard & Poor’s  has it one step
higher, BB+. The company had $10.6 billion of  long-term debt  at
the end of last year.  The swaps soared this week after reports that McClendon, a
company co-founder, has been using his personal 2.5 percent
stakes in some Chesapeake Energy wells as collateral for loans
that weren’t fully disclosed to shareholders. Credit markets are
built upon trust between lenders and borrowers, and the jump in
the swaps suggest that link may be breaking down for Chesapeake
Energy.  The “loan scandal” has “severely tainted the company,”
according to Marc Gross, a  money manager  at RS Investments in
New York who oversees $3 billion in fixed-income funds,
including Chesapeake Energy bonds. “There is no chance of an IG
rating” over the next three years, he said. Chesapeake Energy
is “more likely to get downgraded than upgraded,” and the
investment-grade goal “shows that they are out of touch with
reality,” he said.  Jim Gipson, a spokesman for Chesapeake Energy, declined
immediate comment.  ‘Materially Improve’  While Chesapeake Energy is seeking investment-grade metrics
by year-end, a rating reflecting that may take several years,
McClendon said April 18 during an Independent Petroleum
Association of America investment conference in New York. The
company’s $10.6 billion in debt is down from $12.6 billion at
the end of 2010, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Peter Speer and  Steven Wood , Moody’s analysts, wrote in a
Feb. 13 note that for its corporate family rating to qualify for
an upgrade to Ba1, the highest non-investment level, from its
current Ba2, Chesapeake Energy’s  leverage  will have to decline
from Dec. 31 levels and liquidity will have to “materially
improve” with reduced reliance on asset sales. The company’s
leverage as measured by debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization ratio was 2.03, Bloomberg data
show.  Credit-default swaps tied to Chesapeake Energy surged to
the highest since October 2009 on April 18 after Reuters
reported this week that the structure of McClendon’s personal
loans wasn’t fully disclosed to shareholders and created
potential conflicts of interest.  Never High-Grade  Swaps have never signaled the company should be considered
high grade, according to  Moody’s  data that goes back to January
1999.  Credit-default swaps tied to Chesapeake Energy reached 4.9
percent upfront, according to prices from data provider CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. That’s in addition
to 5 percent a year, meaning it would cost $490,000 initially
and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million of Chesapeake
Energy’s debt.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  Chesapeake Energy’s $1.3 billion of 6.775 percent notes due
March 2019 fell to 97 cents on the dollar from 100.75 on Feb.
24, to yield 7.33 percent at 11:21 a.m. in  New York , according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  Lowered Outlook  The company’s bonds on average yield 6.79 percent as of
yesterday, closer to the 6.99 percent of all junk-rated energy
companies than the 3.6 percent of those in the investment-grade
sector, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Shares of Chesapeake Energy, which is smaller only than
Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil Corp. among U.S. gas producers,
fell to $18 yesterday, down 9.8 percent for the week. The shares
have dropped 19 percent this year through yesterday. The  shares 
declined 0.9 percent to $17.83 as of 11:56 a.m. in New York.  Moody’s lowered its outlook on Chesapeake Energy to
“stable” from “positive” on Feb. 13, citing weakening
natural gas prices and the company’s capital expenditure plans
outpacing  cash flow , meaning it would need to sell more assets
or tap capital markets.  Chesapeake Energy plans to issue shares in its hydraulic-
fracturing business unit Chesapeake Oilfield Services Inc. to
raise $862.5 million to repay debt, make a cash distribution to
its parent company and for general corporate purposes, according
to a prospectus filed April 16.  Personal Finances  Although McClendon’s personal finances won’t factor into
debt analysts’ calculations, credit-rating firms are wary of the
company’s debt load and its penchant for using forward commodity
sales to raise cash for drilling, said  Scott Hanold  of RBC
Capital Markets LLC.  “The complexity and the way they structure some of their
transactions will work against them when they are seeking
investment-grade,” Hanold, an equity analyst with a rating the
equivalent of “hold” on the  shares , said in a telephone
interview from  Minneapolis . “I’m not sure the credit-rating
agencies see these things the same way Chesapeake does.”  The company has raised $6.4 billion since December 2007
through a series of so-called volumetric production payments, or
VPPs, that require Chesapeake Energy to deliver a certain amount
of gas or oil over a given period of time, in exchange for up-
front cash. In the most recent transaction, Chesapeake agreed to
sell Morgan Stanley 10 years of future gas output from a
geological formation known as the Granite Wash for about $745
million, according to an April 9 statement.  ‘There Is Fire’  “The credit-rating agencies regard these VPPs as off-
balance sheet debt,” Hanold said. “The VPPs are a form of
leverage that has to be taken into consideration.”  Shareholders are protected if McClendon, Chesapeake’s 52-
year-old co-founder and chairman, defaults because the company
holds first liens, an overriding claim, to the oil and gas that
flows from the wells he used for collateral, General Counsel
Henry J. Hood said April 18.  “Since Chesapeake is not a party to the loan documents,
the liens and provisions do not reach Chesapeake’s intangible
assets,” Hood said in an e-mailed statement. McClendon has had
the right to buy stakes in Chesapeake wells since 1993, in an
arrangement which requires the CEO personally to pay a
proportionate share of drilling costs on those wells, Hood said.  McClendon ranks  359th  on Forbes magazine’s current list of
wealthiest Americans, with a net worth of $1.1 billion.  “At the very least this highlights weak corporate
governance,” Gross said. “Worst case is there is an ongoing
series of revelations that highlight a major breach in fiduciary
duty. Sometimes when there is smoke there is fire.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  