-- China’s Stocks Rise, Capping Weekly Gain, on Policy Speculation
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-04-20T07:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/china-s-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-on-policy-earnings.html
China’s stocks  rose, capping a
third week of gains for the benchmark index, on speculation the
government will ease monetary policy and increase fiscal
spending on infrastructure to bolster economic growth.  Railcar makers  CSR Corp. (601766)  and  China CNR Corp. (601299)  jumped more
than 3 percent after the  China  Securities Journal reported
railway spending may exceed government targets. Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and Industrial Bank Co. led a
gauge of financial companies to the highest level in seven weeks
after the same newspaper reported that a cut in lenders’
reserve-requirement ratios may be the first option as the
government loosens policy.  “The good news is there are expectations for a reserve-
requirement ratio cut this weekend after all the noise the
entire week,” said Zhang Han, a strategist at Guotai Junan
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “This easing would boost stocks.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 28.2 points, or 1.2
percent, to 2,406.86 at the close. The CSI 300 Index advanced
1.2 percent to 2,626.84. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of
the most-traded Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 0.6 percent
to a one-week high of 103.33 yesterday in New York.  The  Shanghai  index rose 2 percent this week, extending this
year’s advance to 9.4 percent. Stocks in the gauge are valued at
10.2 times estimated earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9
times on Jan. 6, according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
About 9.4 billion shares changed hands in the Shanghai Composite
yesterday, 19 percent higher than the daily average this year.
Thirty-day  volatility  in the gauge was at 18.9.  Policy Outlook  A measure of financial stocks including banks, brokerages
and insurers in the CSI 300 rose 1.7 percent today, the second-
biggest gain among 10 industry groups. The gauge surged 2.7
percent this week, the most among the groups. ICBC, the nation’s
biggest lender, gained 1.6 percent to 4.42 yuan today, while
Industrial Bank climbed 2.7 percent to 13.93 yuan.  China Life Insurance Co., the biggest insurer, surged 3.6
percent today and gained 5.2 percent this week. Xie Jiyong, an
analyst at Capital Securities Corp. in Shanghai, said yesterday
insurance premiums will pick up in the second quarter after
falling in the previous three months.  Haitong Securities Co. advanced 2.4 percent to 10.33 yuan
today. Haitong is poised to raise HK$13 billion ($1.7 billion)
in  Hong Kong ’s biggest first-time stock sale since December,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The government may do more fine-tuning and pre-emptively
adjust monetary policy to ease liquidity pressures, the China
Securities Journal reported today, without citing anyone. The
central bank has cut reserve ratios once this year after
boosting them and  interest rates  in 2010 and 2011 to tame
inflation. Borrowing costs have not been reduced since 2008.  Overweight Stocks  Chinese stocks are UBS AG’s “biggest overweight” position
as the government eases monetary policy, and the economy avoids
a deeper slowdown, according to the brokerage’s Asian equity
strategists.  The People’s Bank of China pledged to ensure adequate
availability of cash in the financial system by using tools
including reductions in the reserve-requirement ratio, the
official Xinhua News Agency said in an April 18 report, citing
an interview with an unidentified person at the central bank.  “China is probably due for a rally here as the PBOC begins
to understand the extent of the problems globally and internally
with the  property market ,” Andrew Economos, head of sovereign
and institutional strategy Asia ex-Japan at JPMorgan Asset
Management in Hong Kong, said in a Bloomberg television
interview today. “I think we will start to see easing in terms
of reserve requirement ratio cuts as well as reverse repo,
basically to flood the market with capital. That’s going to be
good news for equities in China.”  CSR gained 3.5 percent to 4.97 yuan, the highest close
since March 2. China CNR advanced 3.2 percent to 4.49 yuan, the
highest close since Dec. 12.  Rail Investment  Railway investment may be “slightly” more than the
planned 516 billion yuan this year, the China Securities Journal
reported, without citing anyone. Banks have started to extend
loans for railway construction projects since the beginning of
the second quarter, the newspaper reported.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose for a third day, gaining
0.6 percent to a one-month high of $37.77.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  