-- China’s Top Court Suspends Death Sentence for ‘Rich Sister’ Wu
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-21T06:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/china-s-top-court-orders-new-trial-for-rich-sister-wu-ying.html
China ’s Supreme Court suspended the
death sentence for Wu Ying, a woman whose conviction for
defrauding investors of $55.7 million highlighted the country’s
shadow-banking system and sparked a debate on the use of capital
punishment for nonviolent criminals.  The Supreme Court referred her case yesterday back to the
court that imposed the sentence and recommended she get the
death penalty “with reprieve” because she confessed her
crimes, according to a  statement  on the high court’s website.
That means that she can avoid execution with good behavior.  Wu’s case drew the attention of Premier  Wen Jiabao , who
said at a March news conference that the country must integrate
private lending into the economy and the  Supreme Court  should
handle her situation carefully. The sentence was criticized in
discussions online and in state media, with commentators saying
that China, which executes more people than the rest of the
world combined, shouldn’t impose death sentences for nonviolent
crimes.  “This decision shows the government is being sensible,”
 Zhou Dewen , president of the Small and Medium Sized Enterprise
Development Association in the southern city of Wenzhou, said in
an interview. “There are hundreds of people like Wu Ying
involved in private lending, and if it deserves to be killed
for, there will be too many death sentences.”  Political Upheaval  The Supreme Court decision comes in the aftermath of the
country’s biggest political disturbance since the  Tiananmen
Square  protests in 1989, the ouster of Chongqing Communist Party
Secretary  Bo Xilai . The party is seeking to maintain social
order as it investigates Bo and his wife in the death of British
citizen Neil Heywood, and prepares for a once-a-decade political
transition later this year.  Wu, the former owner of Bense Holding Group, was sentenced
to death in 2009 for cheating investors out of 380 million yuan
-- $55.7 million at the time -- after having raised more than
double that amount to fund her business. The Zhejiang Provincial
Higher People’s Court rejected her appeal on Jan. 18.  Wu Ying spent more than 10 million yuan on “clothing,
cosmetics, food and drink, and four BMW cars,” the Supreme
Court said. “She also spent 3.75 million yuan to buy a Ferrari
for herself.”  Singled Out  Wu’s lawyer, Yang Zhaodong, didn’t answer a call to his
mobile phone yesterday. He said in an earlier interview that his
client had been unfairly singled out and wasn’t guilty of fraud.  Wu’s conviction involved a common, illegal practice in
China: raising money from the public with promises to pay back
high  interest rates . Known as shadow banking, these underground
lending and investing networks are estimated to total $1.3
trillion, according to Ren Xianfang, an economist with IHS
Global Insight Ltd. in Beijing.  The lower court found that Wu was guilty of “fabricating
facts, deliberately hiding the truth and promising high returns
as an incentive,” Xinhua reported at the time.  In yesterday’s statement, the high court said the case was
being sent back “for retrial,” while also saying that the
evidence of fraud was sound, previous verdicts were accurate and
“the trial proceeded according to the law.”  The court said the crimes caused “great damage to victims,
and at the same time seriously hurt the state’s financial
management order.”  China Executions  China has cut the number of executions it carries out every
year from 8,000 in 2006 to 4,000 per year now, according to the
San Francisco-based Dui Hua Foundation, a rights group. It still
executes more people than every other government in the world
put together. The next highest is  Iran , with more than 360 in
2011, according to  Amnesty International .  “This is an important case, it’s a wedge case,” John
Kamm, executive director of Dui Hua, said in an interview before
the Supreme Court made its decision. “If you look at how many
people have been killed for nonviolent cases, the number is
immense.”  The daughter of a farmer in Zhejiang province, south of
Shanghai, Wu dropped out of technical school as a teenager to
work at her aunt’s beauty salon and later opened two of her own,
according to the state-run Global Times newspaper. Nicknamed
“Rich Sister” for her success, she branched out into a foot-
massage parlor and bought 10 cars which she rented out. An
entertainment center and a boutique featuring Korean clothes
followed, as did investments in real estate and copper.  If the lower court agrees with the Supreme Court’s
recommendation, Wu’s sentence could be commuted to life in
prison after two years of good behavior, according to Roseann
Rife, a death penalty expert with  Amnesty International .  The Supreme Court’s recommendation doesn’t necessarily mean
the lower court will agree, even in the face of strong public
opinion, she said.  “We have seen cases that have been sent back for retrial
that have still resulted in death sentences,” Rife said. “The
problem external viewers like ourselves and internal
stakeholders in China have is that the Supreme Court review
process is still not transparent.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net ;
Alfred Cang in  Shanghai  at 
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  