-- China Repo Rate Climbs to Two-Week High on Company Tax Payments
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-04-20T08:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/china-repo-rate-climbs-to-two-week-high-on-company-tax-payments.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose to the highest level in almost two weeks on speculation
companies stepped up demand for funds to pay taxes due this
month and next.  The government may preemptively adjust monetary policy to
ease demand for cash, the China Securities Journal reported
today, without citing anyone. The People’s Bank of China  pumped 
a net 52 billion ($8.2 billion) into the financial system this
week after injecting 112 billion yuan last week.  “There’s a seasonal increase in fiscal deposits due to
corporate tax payments,” said Chen Qi, co-head of fixed-income
research at UBS Securities Co. in Shanghai. “The tightness of
funds in the money market will continue into May.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate  climbed 14 basis points to
3.95 percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted average
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It touched
3.96 percent, the highest level since April 9. The rate
increased 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, this week.  The monetary authority will cut lenders’ reserve
requirements and inject cash using reverse-repo agreements and
bill redemptions, Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday, citing
an unidentified central bank official. China last reduced the
proportion of cash lenders must set aside in February, lowering
the reserve ratio for major lenders by half a percentage point
to 20.50 percent.  Bond Auction  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, fell four basis points to 3.20
percent in  Shanghai , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The rate decreased three basis points this week.  China’s finance ministry sold 28 billion yuan of 20-year
bonds at an average yield of 4.03 percent, according to a
statement posted on its website. That was the same as the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of six fixed-income analysts
and traders.  The yield on 3.51 percent government bonds due February,
2022 rose two basis points today and this week to 3.55 percent,
according to the National Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 