-- China May Cut Ratio Without Altering Monetary Stance
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-20T09:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/china-may-cut-ratio-without-altering-monetary-stance.html
Economists are betting  China  will
cut banks’ reserve  requirements  in the coming weeks even as
limited loosening over the past four months indicates leaders
want to maintain a clampdown on inflation and property prices.  Authorities have held off for more than two months on
announcing a third reduction since November in the reserve-
requirement ratio, bucking earlier predictions from institutions
including Credit Agricole CIB and Haitong Securities for the
government to have acted by now.  A ratio reduction may still happen “any weekend from now”
and at latest by the labor-day holiday that ends May 1, said
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.’s Shen Jianguang. While economic
growth  slowed  last quarter to the least in almost three years,
authorities may be seeking to avoid a rebound in inflation that
was below the government’s 4 percent target in February and
March.  “The slowness in action may indicate the central bank
remains concerned about inflation and doesn’t want to use an RRR
cut to send a strong signal to the market about loosening,”
said Shen, who is based in  Hong Kong  and previously worked at
the  European Central Bank .  Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
said yesterday that authorities may lower the ratio twice more
this year, including next month.  China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index rose 1.2 percent
on speculation the government will increase fiscal spending on
infrastructure and lower the reserve-requirement ratio to
bolster economic growth.  Adequate Cash  The People’s Bank of China pledged to ensure adequate
availability of cash in the financial system by using tools
including reductions in the reserve-requirement  ratio , the
official Xinhua News Agency said in an April 18  report  on an
interview with an unidentified person at the central bank.  Authorities will “appropriately take targeted liquidity
management actions” based on circumstances including foreign-
capital inflows and funding demand, the report said, citing the
official. The person didn’t give a timetable for any reserve-
ratio cut and said liquidity in the banking system remains
adequate.  China held off on a reduction in bank reserve requirements
for longer than some economists predicted at the start of the
year. Barclays Capital Asia Ltd., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Industrial Bank Co. said in January that ratios were likely to
fall ahead of the weeklong Lunar New Year festival, which boosts
demand for cash and ran through Jan. 28.  Saturday Announcement  Instead, China announced its latest move almost a month
later, on Feb. 18, a Saturday evening. The previous move was
announced Nov. 30, a Wednesday evening.  The country’s growth has moderated for the past five
quarters as  Europe ’s debt crisis crimped  exports  and government
curbs on lending and home purchases dampened demand at home.
Gross domestic product in the world’s second-largest economy
increased 8.1 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
down from 8.9 percent in the previous three months.  Inflation accelerated to 3.6 percent in March from a year
earlier after easing to a 20-month low of 3.2 percent the
previous month. The government has said it wants to hold
consumer price  gains  to about 4 percent this year.  Analysts in a Bloomberg News survey last month unanimously
said banks’ reserve requirements will fall this year, while nine
out of 20 predicted lower benchmark borrowing costs.  A reserve-ratio cut may be the first option for China to
loosen policy, and the government may preemptively take steps to
ease liquidity pressures, China Securities Journal reported
today without citing anyone.  Loans Rise  Regulators eased credit restrictions at three of the
nation’s biggest banks, people with knowledge of the matter said
last month. New yuan loans rose last month to the highest level
in a year while money supply growth accelerated.  Wang Jun, a researcher with the government-backed China
Center for International Economic Exchanges in Beijing, said the
central bank “hasn’t met market expectations so far” on the
use of the ratio as a principal monetary-policy tool to fuel
economic growth.  The ratio instead is mainly used “to adjust liquidity
caused by foreign exchange inflows,” Wang said in an interview.  Joy Yang, chief economist for  Greater China  at Mirae Asset
Securities (HK) Ltd., said there is “no immediate need” to cut
the ratio because “liquidity remains ample.” There still may
be two or three reductions this year, said Yang, who previously
worked at the  International Monetary Fund .  Australia Export Prices  In the Asia-Pacific region, Australian export and import
prices fell, and Malaysian inflation slowed.  Australia ’s export
prices dropped 7 percent in the first quarter from the previous
period, the biggest decline in more than a year. Import prices
for the same period also fell 1.2 percent, the statistics bureau
announced today.  Malaysia said the rise in consumer prices slowed in March
to 2.1 percent from a year earlier after a 2.2 percent in
February.  In Europe, German business confidence unexpectedly
increased to a nine-month high in April, adding to evidence that
Europe’s largest economy can weather the resurgent sovereign
debt crisis. The Munich-based Ifo institute said today its
business climate index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives,
rose for a sixth straight month to 109.9 from 109.8 in March.  The U.K. said retail sales in March rose at the fastest
pace in more than a year as warm weather boosted purchases of
clothing and gardening equipment and panic buying lifted auto-
fuel demand.  Canada will announce today that inflation slowed in March
to 2 percent from 2.6 percent, according to the median estimate
from a survey of 25 economists.  Mexico  may say that unemployment
for March fell to 4.7 percent, according to a survey by
Bloomberg News.  HSBC Index  Investors will get an early glimpse into China’s second-
quarter performance on April 23, when HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics release their preliminary reading of this
month’s purchasing managers index in manufacturing. The gauge
fell to 48.3 in March from February’s 49.6, showing a fifth
month of contraction. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Wang Jun said a reserve-ratio cut is likely in the second
quarter and the level may decline to 19 percent by the end of
the year, from the current 20.5 percent.  The government’s “hesitancy” in cutting the ratio in
recent weeks “could be due to concern that such action may fuel
unnecessary market expectation that the stance on monetary
policy is being shifted or loosened,” Wang said.  Interest  rates  are a “more important” tool for
influencing demand in the economy and the fact that they’ve been
unchanged since July shows the “monetary policy stance has been
kept stable,” Wang said.  --Victoria Ruan. With assistance from James Mayger in  Tokyo .
Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  