-- China Is ‘Biggest Overweight’ for UBS Amid Easing
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-04-20T05:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/china-is-biggest-overweight-for-ubs-amid-easing.html
Chinese stocks  are UBS AG’s
“biggest overweight” position as the government eases monetary
policy, and the economy avoids a deeper slowdown, according to
the brokerage’s Asian equity strategists.  UBS raised  South Korea (KOSPI)  to overweight, implying investors
should hold more shares than are represented in benchmark
indexes, from neutral because it was a proxy for a recovery in
 China’s economy , strategists including Hong Kong-based Niall MacLeod wrote in a report dated today. They cut  India  to neutral
from overweight because they no longer saw the potential for
“big downside inflation surprises.”  “We continue to think the best theme in the region is to
be tilted towards policy easing,” MacLeod wrote. “Our
preference here is now China rather than India.”  While Chinese state media reported this week that the
central bank had pledged to ensure the availability of cash in
the financial system,  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has indicated an interest-rate cut this week might be
the only one this year because of the risk of inflation
accelerating.  The  MSCI China Index (MXCN) , which tracks Chinese stocks that
foreign investors can trade, and India’s BSE India Sensitive
Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , both gained 13 percent this year amid
speculation policy makers will take steps to bolster economic
growth. The Chinese  gauge  trades for 9.7 times estimated profit,
a 29 percent discount to the Sensex’s multiple of 13.5,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Soft Landing  “China is our biggest overweight,” the UBS analysts
wrote. “We remain of the view that policy is easing, the
economy is likely to land softly and the equity market remains
undervalued against this backdrop.”  The MSCI China lost 0.2 percent as of 12:54 p.m. in  Hong
Kong , taking its gain this week to 0.8 percent. The benchmark
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.6 percent, while the Sensex lost
less than 0.1 percent. The Indian gauge has risen 2.4 this week.  China’s government may do more fine-tuning and pre-
emptively adjust monetary policy to ease liquidity pressures,
the China Securities Journal reported today, without citing
anyone. The central bank has cut banks’  reserve ratios  once this
year after boosting them and  interest rates  in 2010 and 2011 to
tame inflation. Borrowing costs have not been reduced since
2008.  Economic Growth  The People’s Bank of China pledged to ensure adequate
availability of cash in the financial system by using tools
including reductions in reserve ratios, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported on April 18, citing an unidentified person at
the central bank. A ratio cut may happen “any weekend from
now” and at latest by the labor-day holiday that ends May 1,
said Shen Jianguang, an economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.  “We continue to have an overweight on Hong Kong and  China 
where you not only have growth continuing to look better,
particularly with the PBOC being more easy now, but also pretty
good value as well,”  Michael Kurtz , Hong Kong-based global head
of equity strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today.  China’s government is targeting annual economic growth of
7.5 percent this year. While that’s lower than an 8 percent
objective in place since 2005, the rate is five times faster
than the 1.4 percent projected by the  International Monetary
Fund  for the world’s advanced economies. The IMF estimates
 India’s economy  will grow 6.9 percent in 2012, the Washington-
based organization said on April 17.  ‘Less Convinced’  India’s central bank cut its repurchase rate by a greater-
than-forecast half a percentage point to 8 percent on April 17.
The probability of a further cut in  interest rates  is small,
Subbarao told Bloomberg UTV the following day, adding that a
better growth and inflation outlook would increase scope to ease
policy. The RBI has reduced the amount of deposits lenders must
set aside as reserves twice this year.  “We are less convinced than early in the year that
inflation can surprise to the downside,” the UBS analysts
wrote. “We are less sure the market can outperform again by any
meaningful degree for now.”  UBS upgraded  Thailand (SET)  to neutral on earnings growth and
“reasonable valuation,” according to the analysts’ report.
Taiwan was cut to underweight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  