-- China Mobile Profit Misses Estimates on Costs to Add Users
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-20T10:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/china-mobile-profit-misses-estimates-on-costs-to-add-new-users.html
China Mobile Ltd. (941)  profit rose 3.5
percent, missing analyst estimates, as the world’s biggest
carrier by subscribers increased spending to attract users.  Net income climbed to 27.8 billion yuan ($4.4 billion) in
the first quarter, from 26.9 billion yuan a year earlier, the
carrier said in a statement to the  Hong Kong  Stock Exchange
today. The median of four estimates by analysts in a Bloomberg
News survey was 28.2 billion yuan.  Chief Executive Li Yue will boost capital expenditure to
131.9 billion yuan this year, from 128.5 billion yuan last year,
the company said last month, as he upgrades networks and rolls
out more Wi-Fi hotspots to help maintain the company’s lead in
smartphone users over  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762)  and China
Telecom Corp.  “They are facing more extensive competition, so China
Mobile is going to have to try hard to maintain their
profitability level,” said Jim Tang, an analyst who rates the
shares “neutral” at Shenyin Wanguo Securities Co. in  Shanghai .
“Definitely going forward, their margins will be under
pressure.”  Sales rose 7.8 percent to 127.4 billion yuan, from 118.2
billion yuan. The median of four analyst estimates was 128.2
billion yuan.  In the first three months of this year, China Mobile added
17.6 million subscribers, for a total of 667.2 million, the
company said today.  China Mobile rose 1.5 percent to close at HK$87.45 in Hong
Kong trading. The  stock  has risen 15 percent this year.  Subscribers  Profit margins in the first quarter fell to 21.8 percent,
from 22.7 percent a year earlier, as the company faced
“increasingly intensified competition,” China Mobile said in
today’s statement.  “There is some  margin  contraction because they are facing
higher costs to retain customers,” Kelvin Ho, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Yuanta Securities Co., said before the earnings
announcement. “Earnings growth will be a bit slow, as they are
facing increasing competition.”  China Mobile had a total of 649.6 million mobile-phone
subscribers at the end of last year, including 51.2 million
users of the high-speed, third-generation service that
smartphones use to access the Web, according to company data.  That outpaced China Unicom’s 199.7 million total
subscribers and 40 million users of its 3G service. China
Telecom was in third place with 126.5 million total subscribers.  Still, China Mobile’s share of all wireless users will drop
to 64 percent this year from 69 percent in 2010, Barclays
Capital Inc. analyst Anand Ramachandran estimated in a March 7
report. China Unicom’s share will rise to 22 percent from 20
percent over the same period, he estimates.  The company is counting on the move to a 4G network, based
on technology known as TD-LTE, to stem a decline in market share
among users who watch videos and play games on their phones. Its
homegrown 3G network left it unable to offer popular handsets
including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, which is now available from both
China Unicom and China Telecom.  By investing to expand its Wi-Fi network, the company said
last month it had been able to win 15 million iPhone users.  That helped the company almost triple wireless data traffic
in the first quarter, as more subscribers used handsets to
download movies and electronic books, the company said today.  China Mobile’s state-owned parent company this year will
expand its 4G trial to nine cities, from six last year, and add
20,000 base stations to the 900 it tested last year, the company
said last month. The total number of 4G base stations will
exceed 200,000 next year, the company said.  China Mobile last month also said Chairman Wang Jianzhou
retired after almost eight years at the company’s helm, and was
replaced by Xi Guohua, completing a two-year transition to new
leadership. Wang had relinquished the title of chief executive
to Li in August 2010.  China Unicom and China Telecom will report earnings next
week.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  