-- Clemens Prosecutors Ask Judge to Settle Exhibit Dispute
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-20T20:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/clemens-prosecutors-ask-judge-to-settle-exhibit-dispute-1-.html
Federal prosecutors seeking to
convict ex-New York Yankees pitcher  Roger Clemens  of perjury
asked a judge to settle a dispute with defense lawyers over
trial exhibits.  The government gave U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  today
the text of eight exhibits it plans to use at trial that
Clemens’s lawyers object to. The evidence includes Clemens’s
discussion in a congressional deposition of his relationship
with former ballplayer  Jose Canseco  and questions Clemens was
asked about former Yankees teammate Andy Pettitte during a
subsequent hearing.  “The government submits these exhibits to the court in an
abundance of caution and in order to give the court an
opportunity to review them before trial,” prosecutors said in
the filing.  Clemens is charged with one count of obstructing a
congressional investigation, three counts of making false
statements and two counts of perjury in connection with a
congressional probe of ballplayers’ alleged use of performance-
enhancing drugs. If convicted on all counts, he may face as long
as 30 years in prison and a $1.5 million fine.  Walton declared a mistrial in July after finding that
prosecutors improperly showed the jury a video clip of a 2008
congressional hearing in which the wife of government witness
 Andy Pettitte  was discussed. Walton had ruled earlier that the
government could make no references to Laura Pettitte, or an
affidavit she gave Congress.  Opening statements in his retrial is scheduled for April
23.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  