-- Colombian Peso Extends Weekly Gain as Demand for Risk Resumes
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-04-20T18:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/colombian-peso-heads-for-weekly-gain-on-german-confidence.html
Colombia ’s peso rose, extending its
weekly gain, as German business confidence improved and a boost
in U.S. earnings helped encourage demand for higher-yielding
assets in  emerging markets .  “The market has a brighter picture today with a better
outlook on the global economy,” said Julian Marquez, an analyst
in Bogota at Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s largest brokerage.  The peso climbed 0.2 percent to 1,771.10 per  U.S. dollar ,
extending its gain this week to 0.3 percent. The peso is up 9.5
percent this year in the best performance among all of the
tenders tracked by Bloomberg.  The currency will extend its gain amid higher foreign
investment flows, said Marquez, who forecasts it will gain to
1,759 per dollar at the end of June.  Colombia hasn’t sold dollars in the market this year as it
tries to ease gains in the peso, said the  Finance Ministry  in a
statement yesterday, adding that it is “worried” about the
strong peso.  State-oil company  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  will make its $1 billion
dividend payment to the government this month in dollars to
limit demand for pesos, according to the statement.  “The government continues to permanently analyze measures
to reduce the pace of gains in the peso,” according to the
statement.  The Colombian peso rose today as Germany’s Ifo institute
said its business climate index rose to a nine-month high,
adding to evidence Europe’s largest economy can weather the debt
crisis. U.S. stocks rallied as General Electric Co.’s earnings
beat analysts’ forecasts.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 was little changed at 7.09 percent, according
to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  