-- Colombia’s Coffee Crop May Be Below 7 Million Bags, Volcafe Says
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-04-20T15:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/colombia-s-coffee-crop-may-be-below-7-million-bags-volcafe-says.html
Coffee production in  Colombia , the
world’s second-biggest arabica grower, may be less than 7
million bags in the current season because of rainstorms, said
Volcafe Ltd.  “There is a more generally accepted consensus of a 2011-12
harvest below 7 million bags,” the unit of commodities trader
ED&F Man Holdings Ltd. said in a report to clients e-mailed
today. “The rains continue to cause problems for coffee
moisture management in post-harvesting.”  The Colombian coffee harvest has failed to recover since
wet weather reduced output by 32 percent in the 2009 calendar
year. Last year’s crop was the smallest since 1976. The nation’s
state-run weather agency this week predicted that rains soaking
farms in central growing areas probably will persist through
June.  Colombia’s output was 7.8 million bags in the previous
season, Volcafe estimated in February. Rains caused by the La
Nina weather pattern, associated with cooler-than-normal
equatorial waters in the  Pacific Ocean , have left production in
the Andean nation below the 2007-08 level for four seasons, data
from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  show.  Colombian coffee for May and June shipment was trading at a
premium of 29 cents a pound to the price on ICE Futures U.S. in
 New York , Volcafe data show. That compares with 30 cents last
week.  “Differentials remain firm,” Volcafe said, referring to a
discount or premium paid to obtain physical coffee in relation
to futures prices. “Some demand was present this week and
business was concluded.”  Arabica coffee for July delivery rose 1.5 percent to
$1.7825 a pound by 11:09 a.m. local time on ICE. Prices are down
21 percent this year.  Brazil  is the largest global grower of the
variety, favored for specialty beverages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 