-- Cool Front Moves to Midwest, South as East Looks for Rain
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-04-20T13:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/cool-front-moves-to-midwest-south-as-east-looks-for-rain.html
The U.S. Midwest and Southeast are
expected to cool through the weekend, possibly boosting energy
demand for heating, as a storm front moving into the East Coast
is forecast to bring rain from  New York City  to Florida.  Temperatures may be 3 to 5 degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 to 2.8
Celsius) below normal from the Great Lakes to the Gulf of Mexico
and east to the Atlantic Coast from Virginia to Florida,
according to  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group
LLC, in Bethesda, Maryland.  The latest computer models suggest that “the East Coast
gets very cool Monday, and the cool trough stays around longer
through next week,” Rogers said. “These changes add heating
demand to both the Midwest and East next week.”  Energy demand for heating may rise 30 to 60 percent from
Indiana to Ohio and double in parts of the South, particularly
along the Georgia and  South Carolina  coast, according to  David Salmon , owner of Weather Derivatives in Belton, Missouri.  Commodities traders watch temperature forecasts to gauge
energy use and demand. About 51 percent of U.S. households use
gas for heating, according to the Energy Department.  Widespread, “much-needed” rain is expected along the East
Coast this weekend from New England to Florida, according to the
 National Weather Service .  East Coast Rain  New York  City may receive 1.25 to 2.5 inches (3.2 to 6.4
centimeters) through the weekend, according to the weather
service. A total of 2.75 inches may fall in Boston, while
Washington and Baltimore may receive as much as 1.25 inches.  Rain is also expected in Toronto and Montreal and heavy
snow may fall in northern Ontario and Quebec, according to
 Environment Canada .  Moderate to severe drought exists along the East Coast from
southern Maine to  Maryland , the  U.S. Drought Monitor  said.
Severe to extreme drought conditions have spread from South
Carolina to Florida.  “The heaviest rain is forecast over the deep South into
Florida over the next few days,” the monitor said.  There is a slight risk of severe thunderstorms across
Florida through tomorrow, according to the U.S. Storm Prediction
Center in Norman,  Oklahoma .  The normal average temperature for April 28 in New York is
about 57, according to MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
Maryland. It’s 53 in Boston, 54 in Chicago, 62 in St. Louis, 66
in Atlanta, 72 in Dallas, 74 in Houston, 53 in Seattle and 64 in
Burbank, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  