-- Coyotes, Devils, Capitals, Blues Win in NHL Playoffs First Round
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-20T05:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/coyotes-devils-capitals-win-in-round-one-of-nhl-playoffs.html
Mikkel Boedker scored in overtime
as the  Phoenix Coyotes  beat the Chicago Blackhawks 3-2 to move
within one win of reaching the second round of the National
Hockey League playoffs.  The Coyotes lead the Blackhawks by three games to one in
their best-of-seven series.  The New Jersey Devils shut out the Florida Panthers 4-0
last night and the Washington Capitals topped the Boston Bruins
2-1 to even their series at two games apiece.  The St. Louis Blues beat the San Jose Sharks 2-1 on goals
by B.J. Crombeen and Andy McDonald to take a three-games-to-one
lead in their series. Joe Thornton scored with 67 seconds left
for the Sharks at HP Pavilion in San Jose, California.  The Blues can advance to round two with a victory tomorrow
on home ice.  After two scoreless periods at United Center in  Chicago ,
Shane Doan and Taylor Pyatt gave the Coyotes a 2-0 lead with
goals 44 seconds apart in the third period.  Brendan Morrison made it 2-1 after 10 minutes, 25 seconds
and Michael Frolik forced overtime with a goal 1:26 from the end
of regulation time.  The Coyotes can eliminate the Blackhawks with a home win
tomorrow night.  At Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey, Zach Parise,
Steve Bernier, Travis Zajac and Ilya Kovalchuk scored for the
Devils, who travel to Sunrise, Florida, for Game 5 tomorrow.  At the Verizon Center in Washington, Marcus Johansson of
the Capitals scored his first goal of the playoffs in the first
period and  Boston ’s Rich Peverley tied the game 12 minutes
later.  Alexander Semin  got a power-play goal with 77 seconds
left in the second period to give Washington the win.  The Bruins return to home ice tomorrow for Game 5 against
the Capitals.  Tonight, the  Philadelphia Flyers  can eliminate the
 Pittsburgh Penguins , while the Nashville Predators can advance
to round two with a win over the  Detroit Red Wings .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  