-- Cyber Bills Called Not Enough to Protect Vulnerable U.S.
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 2012-04-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/cyber-bills-called-not-enough-to-protect-vulnerable-u-s-.html
Proposed legislation in Congress
doesn’t go far enough to improve U.S. security against cyber
spying and potentially crippling hacker attacks, a former U.S.
national intelligence director said.  None of the measures lawmakers are debating authorize
mandatory sharing of real-time cyber threat information between
government and industry, a process needed to improve the
nation’s digital defenses, Mike McConnell said at a Bloomberg
cybersecurity conference in  New York  yesterday.  Hackers and illicit programmers in  China  and  Russia  are
pursuing American technology and industrial secrets,
jeopardizing an estimated $398 billion in U.S. research
spending, according to a November report by the National
Counterintelligence Executive, which is responsible for
countering foreign spying on the U.S. government.  The existing legislation is “necessary but insufficient,”
McConnell, now a vice chairman of McLean, Virginia-based  Booz
Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , said at the conference sponsored
by his company.  “In looking at corporate America, we haven’t been able to
find a single corporation that cannot be penetrated to the point
of capturing the most essential information,” he said. He
called China the “most prolific” of nation-states trying to
capture and steal U.S. intellectual capital.  Bills supported by Republicans and some Democrats would
encourage voluntary sharing of threat information, while
legislation backed by President Barack Obama’s administration
would direct the  Homeland Security  Department to set cyber
standards for critical U.S. infrastructure such as power grids
or chemical plants.  Cyber Espionage  Lawmakers are debating cybersecurity legislation following
assaults on companies last year including New York-based
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank by assets, and
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s
largest defense company.  Cyber espionage aimed at stealing U.S. intellectual
property is “constantly happening,” Frank Montoya, the U.S.
National Counterintelligence Executive, said at the conference.
“Technology has really, in many respects, leveled the playing
field when it comes to our competitors.”  Montoya’s office in November called China the world’s
biggest perpetrator of economic espionage in a  report  that said
the theft of sensitive data in cyberspace is accelerating.
Targeted areas include pharmaceuticals, information-technology,
military equipment and advanced materials and manufacturing
processes, the report said.  Data Sharing  A central piece of cybersecurity legislation in the House
would encourage voluntary sharing of cyber-threat information by
giving companies immunity from civil and criminal actions
arising from the exchange of such data.  “You have nation-states that are stealing intellectual
property at a breathtaking rate,” Representative Mike Rogers,
chairman of the House Intelligence Committee who introduced the
measure, said in an interview this week.  With data-sharing, “by just knowing what to look for, you
already improve the safety and security of your network. It
gives us a fighting chance in an incredibly aggressive cyber-
threat environment,” said Rogers, a Michigan Republican.  Homeland Security  Rogers’ bill, the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection
Act, passed his committee in a 17-to-1 vote in December and has
more than 100 co-sponsors from both parties, including the
panel’s senior Democrat, Representative C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of  Maryland . The bill will go to the House floor
for a vote next week, Rogers said.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, has
pledged to bring the Obama-backed legislation, from Senator
 Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, to the Senate
floor.  “We believe information sharing, while important, does not
stop the whole problem,”  Howard Schmidt , the White House
cybersecurity coordinator, said in an interview at the Bloomberg
conference yesterday.  Schmidt said legislation should give the Homeland Security
Department a role in working with industry, declining to say
whether the administration would support a bill focused solely
on information-sharing.  Michael Brown , director of product security at BlackBerry
maker  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM) , told the conference that users
face difficult choices balancing usability of devices with
security. Mobile to mobile threats are emerging, he said.  Sleeper “botnets” on mobile devices may create the next
major cyber attack, said Gary Schluckbier, director of Motorola
Solutions’s secure products group.  The Rogers  bill  is H.R. 3523. The Lieberman  bill  is S.
2105.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Juliann Francis in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  