-- DBS to Keep Danamon Brand Amid Indonesia’s Identity Concern
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-04-20T04:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/dbs-to-keep-danamon-brand-amid-indonesia-s-identity-concern.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,  Southeast
Asia ’s largest bank, said it will retain the  Danamon (BDMN)  brand after
buying the lender amid Indonesian concern that financial firms
could lose their national identity in cross-border deals.  The $7.2 billion offer for PT Bank Danamon Indonesia,
potentially the largest acquisition by a Southeast Asian lender,
would merge its banking assets with DBS’s local unit, the
Singapore-based bank has said. Mahendra Siregar, Indonesia’s
deputy finance minister, expressed concern yesterday that
Danamon as a national institution will be lost.  “DBS fully recognizes the value of the Danamon brand, and
intends to retain the brand in some form in the combined
entity,” Karen Ngui, a spokeswoman for the Singapore bank, said
in response to a request for comment on Siregar’s remarks. “We
will be guided by the regulators as well as customer feedback
and will review the decision when the time is right.”  The deputy minister’s comments may fuel speculation that
DBS’s bid for the country’s sixth-largest bank by assets will be
hampered after the Indonesian central bank said last week that
such a deal should also bring more access for the nation’s
financial companies seeking to operate in  Singapore .  “The Indonesian regulators will push very hard for similar
treatment of their banks in Singapore,” said Rahmi Sari Marina,
a Jakarta-based analyst at PT Kim Eng Securities. “For that
reason, the deal may get delayed beyond the six months that DBS
intends to complete it in. But it will finally go through
because there are no rules or laws that either of the parties is
violating.”  Shares Fall  Danamon shares fell 1.6 percent to 6,150 rupiah at 10:52
a.m. in Jakarta trading, paring gains since before DBS announced
its offer on April 2 to 34 percent. DBS climbed 0.2 percent to
S$13.67 in Singapore.  “We are concerned that Indonesian institutions only become
the branches of foreign banks,” Siregar said yesterday in a
meeting with journalists.  Bank  Indonesia ’s Deputy Governor Halim Alamsyah on April 11
said the central bank will seek talks on reciprocity with
Singapore as a condition for approval of DBS’s offer and sent a
letter to the Monetary Authority of Singapore on the issue.  Acquiring the Jakarta-based bank will help DBS expand
beyond its home market and  Hong Kong , adding 3,000 Danamon
branches in an economy that grew last year at the fastest pace
since before the Asian financial crisis.  DBS, controlled by Singapore’s state-run Temasek Holdings
Pte, said it will pay its parent company 45.2 trillion rupiah
($4.9 billion) in new shares for its 67 percent stake in Danamon
and buy the remaining stock from other shareholders for 21.2
trillion rupiah in cash. Temasek will increase its stake in DBS
to 40.4 percent from 29.5 percent, the lender said on April 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Russell Ward at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net  