-- Dewey & LeBoeuf Said to Be Considering Bankruptcy
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-04-20T19:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/dewey-leboeuf-said-to-consider-pre-pack-in-bid-to-save-firm.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP is weighing
options, including a pre-packaged bankruptcy, to avert the New
York-based law firm’s collapse after losing dozens of partners
over several months, a person familiar with the matter said.  A team led by partners  Martin Bienenstock  and  Bruce Bennett 
is considering a pre-pack -- a bankruptcy plan approved by
creditors -- that could lead to a merger with another U.S. firm,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to discuss the plans publicly. The team is also
examining what happens if the firm shuts down, the person said.  More than 60 partners have left Dewey during what the firm
has called a restructuring process. The largest exiting
contingent was a group of 12 insurance and regulatory lawyers
who went to Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP last month.  “We are considering various paths, including continuing to
operate as an independent global law firm and a strategic
combination with another leading law firm, the latter of which
could take many forms,” said Angelo Kakolyris, a spokesman for
Dewey. “Nothing, however, at this point, is definitive.”  Bienenstock, who was named a member of the firm’s five-
person chairman’s group, declined to comment on his plans for
Dewey.  Legal Adviser  Dewey ranks third among legal advisers to investment banks
advising companies on mergers this year, based on the announced
dollar value of deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Bienenstock’s restructuring team represented Los Angeles Dodgers
LLC in its bankruptcy and sale to a group including  Magic
Johnson , according to Dewey’s website.  Closing Dewey would make it much more difficult for members
of the firm’s limited liability partnership and creditors to get
any money back, said the person familiar with the situation.
Most large law firms that fail don’t come out of bankruptcy,
they liquidate, said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer with
Bingham Greenebaum Doll LLP in Louisville,  Kentucky .  “Unless they get to a stopping point on the bleeding,
Dewey will simply collapse,” Bowles said, citing Finley Kumble,
which went bankrupt in 1988.  Dewey might have trouble finding a merger partner, since
many rivals prefer to select only the partners they want, Bowles
said.  ‘Cherry-Picking’  “What you are seeing happen to them now is a form of
cherry-picking with groups of partners leaving,” he said.
“This doesn’t mean the firm won’t survive, but people going to
jobs which are perceived as safer is a bad sign.”  While a pre-pack “in theory could work,” Dewey’s
challenge will be to keep control of the firm’s assets, which
are mainly its partners, Bowles said. “The money is in the
books of business of the productive partners.”  New York-based Finley Kumble had almost 200 partners,
according to the American Lawyer.  The Wall Street Journal reported Dewey’s possible
bankruptcy filing earlier today.  “The firm has not hired a bankruptcy attorney and I think
I would know if it had,” said Bennett, who co-chairs Dewey’s
business solutions and governance practice in  Los Angeles .
Reuters reported that Dewey hired Albert Togut, a bankruptcy
attorney with Togut Segal & Segal LLP who has represented
companies in Chapter 11 bankruptcy cases. Togut didn’t return
phone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Latham Role  Peter Gilhuly, a partner at  Latham & Watkins  who advised
Howrey LLP on its dissolution last year, said earlier this week
he “has a role” in Dewey’s struggle for survival. Gilhuly, who
also advised San Francisco-based law firm Thelen LLP in its 2008
dissolution, declined to comment further on the role and said he
isn’t representing the firm or the banks.  Dewey raised $125 million in a 2010 bond offering to
refinance existing bank debt, a rare action by a U.S. law firm.  In Dewey’s international network, the 42-lawyer Moscow
outpost is assessing its options after approaches from firms
including King & Spalding LLP, said a person familiar with
negotiations. The Russian office focuses on energy and corporate
law.  This week, Dechert LLP took a five-partner corporate and
securities team from Dewey’s Dubai office to open in the city.  Dewey’s Rome office head, Stefano Speroni, said the Italian
business isn’t looking to leave the firm.  ‘Truly Deny’  “I truly deny that we are in negotiations with anyone,”
Speroni said in a telephone interview today. “People are
calling us, which is inevitable, but there is no substance to
the rumors that the Italian offices are going to leave Dewey &
LeBoeuf.”  After the spate of departures, the firm last month said it
would set up a new chairman’s office with five co-equal members
from its most profitable groups, according to a letter to the
partners obtained by Bloomberg News.  Current Chairman Steven Davis would be joined in the
chairman’s office by Bienenstock, who runs the firm’s
restructuring group; Rich Shutran, head of the corporate
department;  Jeffrey Kessler , head of litigation; and Charles Landgraf, who runs the Washington office and the legislative and
public policy group, according to the letter.  The new management team was being set up after “internal
requests for more hands-on management,” Shutran said in a phone
interview at the time.  ‘No Impact’  “On insurance, we’re confident that the group’s departure
has no impact on our firm’s profitability,” Shutran said.
“That group was break-even at best.”  Revenue for the first two months of this year rose
28 percent from a year earlier, and so called billable value
increased 13 percent, according to the letter. Revenue for the
12 months through Feb. 29 grew 6 percent with an increase in
billable value of 9.7 percent, according to the letter.  Florida law firm Ruden McClosky PA won approval in
bankruptcy last year to sell itself to Greenspoon Marder PA,
raising enough from the sale to pay about $5 million owed to
Wells Fargo Bank NA, according to court filings. There were no
rival bids.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  