-- Dogan Rises as Erdogan Photo Op Signals Better Relations
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-04-20T15:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/dogan-holding-rises-as-erdogan-photo-op-signals-better-relations.html
Dogan Sirketler Grubu Holding AS (DOHOL) ,
the owner of Turkey’s largest listed media group, jumped after
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  attended a public event with
honorary chairman Aydin Dogan, suggesting relations with the
government may be improving.  The shares rose for a third day, adding 4.2 percent to 75
kurus in Istanbul, their biggest gain since April 4.  The company’s stock slumped 14 percent on April 12, when
Dogan Chairwoman Begumhan Dogan Faralyali denied reports Aydin Dogan would be arrested amid an investigation into the toppling
of Turkey’s government in 1997. Erdogan was photographed with
Dogan at the opening ceremony of the Trump Towers Mall
yesterday, a joint project between Dogan and Donald Trump, the
U.S. real-estate developer and reality-television star who is
also the chairman and chief executive officer of Trump Casino
Funding Inc.  “Punters may infer from Erdogan’s preparedness to stand
beside  Aydin Dogan  at yesterday’s opening of Trump Tower
Istanbul that he is not about to have him arrested anytime
soon,” Juliam Rimmer, a broker at CF Global Trading in  London ,
said in a note sent to clients.  The prime minister’s attendance “could be seen as a sign
of improving relations between the Dogan group and the
government,” Istanbul-based brokerage  BGC Partners (BGCP)  said.
“Dogan shares have been sold off heavily recently with concerns
that the recent arrests over the 1997 coup could extend to
civilians including the media powers.”  Dogan Yayin Holding AS (DYHOL) , the media group in which Dogan
Sirketler Holding AS has a 23 percent stake, gained 3.1 percent
to 67 kurus today.  Tax Fine  Dogan’s companies were hit with a $3.8 billion tax fine in
2009 after Aydin Dogan got into a row with Erdogan over Dogan
media’s reporting of a scandal relating to a Turkish charity in
 Germany  that implicated members of the government. Erdogan
compared Aydin Dogan to U.S. gangster  Al Capone  in an interview
with the Wall Street Journal in October of 2009.  Dogan Sirketler reported a loss of 757.1 million liras
($419 million) in 2011, compared with a profit of 656.2 million
liras in 2010, the company said April 12, missing estimates of a
672.3 million-liras loss as per the average of six analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company has 659 million liras left to pay in back taxes
and fines from the 2009 bill, chief financial officer Ahmet
Toksoy said at a news conference in Istanbul on April 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  