-- Drogba Nears $11 Million Contract With Shanghai: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-20T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/drogba-nears-11-million-contract-with-shanghai-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Drogba Nears Deal  Chelsea striker  Didier Drogba  is close to agreeing on a
contract with Chinese club Shanghai Shenhua worth 6.7 million
pounds ($10.8 million) a year, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Ivory Coast forward is expected to sign a two-year deal
worth 130,000 pounds a week after tax, the Mail said. Drogba,
34, had been willing to stay at Stamford Bridge, though Chelsea
offered him a 12-month contract extension instead of the two
years he wanted, the newspaper added.  Chelsea Clearout  Drogba, midfielder Frank Lampard, 33, and 31-year-old
defender Ashley Cole will be allowed to leave after this season
as Chelsea tries to reduce the average age of its squad, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  There will be no room for sentiment even if Chelsea wins
the  Champions League , the Mirror said. Developing young talent
will come ahead of buying big-name replacements as part of a
long-term rebuilding phase, the newspaper added.  Barca Wants Bale  Barcelona’s technical department has made Tottenham
Hotspur’s Gareth Bale its No. 1 transfer target and will urge
coach Pep Guardiola to sanction the 22-year-old’s signing in the
offseason, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Andoni Zubizarreta, Barcelona’s sporting director,
considers Bale to be the ideal long-term replacement for  Eric Abidal , who underwent a  liver transplant  last week, the
newspaper added.  City Close  Manchester City is close to signing Athletic Bilbao striker
 Fernando Llorente  for 30 million pounds with agents for both
clubs at a detailed stage of negotiations on a five-year
contract, the  Sun reported .  Although Llorente has attracted interest from all the major
Premier League teams, none can match the 200,000 pounds-a-week
wages being offered by City, the Sun added.  Villa’s Valuation  Aston Villa  placed a 12 million-pound valuation on England
striker  Gabriel Agbonlahor , who is a target for Sunderland, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  Sunderland manager Martin O’Neill needs a new striker, with
Nicklas Bendtner’s season-long loan from Arsenal about to end
and Asamoah Gyan unlikely to return from his loan at Al-Ain in
the United Arab Emirates, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  