-- The Mommy Wars are About Daddy Too
-- B y   B r o n w y n   F r y e r
-- 2012-04-20T14:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/the-mommy-wars-are-about-daddy-too.html
     The recent brouhaha set off by Democratic strategist
Hilary Rosen (who infamously noted that Ann Romney "never
worked a day in her life") is telling on an infinite number of
levels. All women on both sides of the so-called "Mommy Wars"
(and those horribly caught in the middle of the conflict zone)
feel a prickly defensiveness, regardless of where they sit on
the spectrum.  But here is another reason why Rosen's remark touched a
third rail, and it has to do with — let's just put it out
there — men's identity crisis.  I don't know about you, but everywhere I go I run into
men who don't feel like they have a real place in the
world, thanks to the so-called "man-cession." Their eyes are
hollow; they struggle for identity. They are all like the guys
in Peter Gabriel's searing song, "Don't Give Up," about a man
"whose dreams have all deserted," who struggles for work, for
identity and a reason to go on living.  Women understand this feeling deeply. It is a cliché that
without meaningful work or prospects, we women suffer to the
point of hysteria (See: all of Western history and
literature, including Downton Abbey, which is all about social
disruption.) For millennia, women, threatened by pregnancy and
second-class citizenship, rarely worked outside the home;
those who did were socially tarred. It's an old, horrible
story.  Today in the U.S., the tables have pretty much turned.
Like fish without bicyles, women are enjoying more
opportunities than ever, and they don't need men to realize
their dreams of college and careers. They are putting off
marriage and childbearing. They now enjoy a majority in
colleges and graduate schools. They are also a majority in
American workplaces, though they still generally earn less
than men in comparable jobs.  Meanwhile, millions of smart, hardworking men, like all
those women before them, feel threatened, their ambitions
"disrupted" by technology and displaced by outsourcing.
Today, fewer men than women are earning college degrees. One
(disputed) study has even asserted that men will actually
become extinct one day as the Y chromosome runs out. My own
husband — a hard-working, entrepreneurial, visionary
videographer disrupted by digital technology — is working to
reinvent himself as community activist. (Hey, at least he is
not sitting at home in front of the television with a
six-pack.) And he is no wimp, but he is aching to re-find his
place as a meaningful person in the world.  I think the "man-cession" has caused a seismic shakeup in
male/female identity, and it makes everyone profoundly
uncomfortable. It helps explain the attacks on Sandra Fluke
and the recent, weirdly-recidivist efforts in so many states
to deny women access to abortion and even contraception. I
think it tells us why the "War on Women" has grabbed serious
(and thankfully, sometimes humorous) headlines.  Men increasingly feel identity-threatened and
marginalized. Women who feel that they have no choice but to
stay home and raise children often feel the same way. So do
too many men and women who have no choice but to go out and
work crazy hours, when they would rather spend more time with
the kids.  Yes, there is a war on, but it's not just a war
on, over, or between women. It's an economic and identity war.
When people lack self-esteem and feel threatened, disrespected
and disenfranchised, they snipe at each other. We become
defensive of our world-views — even reactionary. And in the
echo-chamber of the current media, which feasts upon our
discomfort, we all become stridently unthinking, defensive and
blaming.  If I were the CEO of my dreams, I would make sure that
women had an equal seat in the boardroom and the executive
committee; but I would also work to ensure that all the men
and women in my company had the chance to work without killing
themselves. I'd offer ample opportunities for flex-time and
job-sharing. I'd try hard to see that everyone who worked for
me had a chance to rise, to feel
important, and, critically, to achieve some semblance of
balance between their family and office lives. And if I
overheard sniping, I'd nip it in the bud.  Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the latest
 news about energy, natural resources and global business.
 