-- ECB Should Cut Rate to Spur Growth, France’s Hollande Says
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-04-20T09:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/ecb-should-cut-rate-to-spur-growth-france-s-hollande-says-1-.html
The  European Central Bank  should
cut its benchmark rate and begin lending directly to governments
to promote growth and end the debt crisis, French Socialist
presidential candidate  Francois Hollande  said.  While saying “I know  Germany  is totally hostile” to those
positions, Hollande said on Europe 1 radio today that it would
be “smarter, faster, more efficient for the ECB to be the first
and last lender” to governments.  The Frankfurt-based central bank, whose benchmark rate is a
record low of 1 percent, has become a target in the final days
of the French campaign. Both Hollande and President  Nicolas Sarkozy  have called for a more activist institution that
promotes growth in addition to controlling inflation.  One way would be “lowering  interest rates , if we believe
that it can indeed help growth by this action, and I am
favorable to it,” Hollande said today. “ So it is up to the
ECB to head in that direction.”  “But there is another way -- by lending directly to member
states rather than going through banks, which is what has been
chosen so far,” Hollande said. “It’s totally paradoxical that
the ECB floods the markets with liquidity, lending at a 1
percent rate to banks who themselves lend to states, like in
Spain, at a 6 percent rate.”  With Germany and the ECB itself opposed to Hollande’s
positions, the comments reflect campaign posturing and “should
not be taken at face value,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist
in  London  for Standard Chartered Bank.  The first round of French elections is in two days.
Hollande leads President Nicolas Sarkozy in polls before their
likely May 6 runoff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  