-- Economics 101 for BOJ Recommended as Takenaka Presses for Easing
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-04-20T03:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/economics-101-for-boj-recommended-as-takenaka-presses-for-easing.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  sees protecting
its own balance sheet as more important than ending deflation
and spurring the world’s third-largest economy, according to the
former minister who led a clean-up of the nation’s banks.  “This isn’t difficult -- it’s Economics 101,”  Heizo Takenaka, 61, said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. “They
think the balance sheet is more important than  Japan ’s economy.
That’s why they are ok with leaving deflation,” said Takenaka,
who served in former Prime Minister  Junichiro Koizumi ’s cabinet.
The BOJ’s press office declined to comment.  At 139 trillion yen ($1.7 trillion), the BOJ’s balance
sheet is larger than that of the U.S. Federal Reserve as a share
of the economy. Even so, its assets, which include securities
used for open-market operations and those accumulated through
liquidity injections and stimulus programs, have shrunk about 11
percent from a peak in 2005.  Political pressure for expanding easing was highlighted by
lawmakers this month rejecting a government nominee for the
BOJ’s board who some saw as lacking enthusiasm for bolder
measures. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his officials should
loosen monetary policy further at a meeting on April 27 after
pledging “powerful” easing to achieve an inflation goal of 1
percent, said Takenaka, a professor of policy management at  Keio
University  in Tokyo.  Easing Forecasts  Morgan Stanley sees a “near 100 percent probability” of
more easing this month while Mizuho Securities and SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. also expect a move. BOJ policy makers added 10
trillion yen to an asset-purchase program in February, while the
central bank’s key interest rate remains between zero and 0.1
percent.  Takenaka’s comments follow economists querying the
consistency of the BOJ’s policies, with Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
saying that February moves were “out of character” for
Shirakawa and former BOJ board member Atsushi Mizuno saying this
week that decisions have seemed at odds with policy makers’ own
views.  Expanding easing is “better than doing nothing,” even if
the BOJ doesn’t know if the measures will prove effective,
Takenaka said. A failure to act may encourage alterations to the
law governing the bank, increasing political influence, he said.  A March expansion of a lending program designed to boost
long-term growth was an example of “ad-hoc solutions” rather
than throwing a “straight ball” to counter deflation, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in 東京 at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  