-- Hedge Fund Founder Kim Gets Five to 15 Years for Scheme
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-04-20T16:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/hedge-fund-founder-kim-gets-five-to-15-years-for-scheme-1-.html
Hedge fund founder Brian Kim was
sentenced to a total of five to 15 years in prison after
pleading guilty to grand larceny in connection with what
prosecutors said was a $6 million  Ponzi scheme .  Justice Charles H. Solomon handed down the sentence today
in  New York  State Supreme Court in  Manhattan . Kim, founder and
operator of the hedge fund Liquid Capital Management LLC,
pleaded guilty to nine of 26 counts against him in court on
March 16. He faced as long as 25 years in prison for the most
serious count.  Kim was taken into custody in October by authorities in
Hong Kong, where he fled on the eve of his trial on charges that
he stole $435,000 from the Christadora House, a condominium
complex in Manhattan’s East Village where he lived.  The judge didn’t impose any fines or restitution.  Kim told the judge that he would seek to repay millions of
dollars to his investors after he is released from prison.  “That’s my sincerest hope,” he said.  Kim was charged in February 2011 with running the scheme
for eight years. He told clients they were investing in safe and
stable securities while he traded in highly speculative
contracts and diverted money to himself, prosecutors said.  “He was never motivated by greed,” Kim’s lawyer,  Justin
Levine , said prior to the sentencing. “He genuinely wanted to
help his investors.”  Shopping Trips  The  U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission  also sued Kim
and Liquid Capital in February 2011, seeking an injunction
preventing them from trading in commodities futures and foreign
currencies. Kim and his employees told prospective clients the
fund generated returns of more than 240 percent while hiding
losses by making new investments look like profits, the agency
said in the complaint.  Kim used withdrawals from the fund to finance shopping
excursions at Barney’s and Coach stores in  New York City , skiing
and gambling trips, car payments and dry cleaning, the CFTC
said. A default judgment of $12.5 million, or three times Kim’s
gain of $3.1 million, was entered against him in the CFTC suit
in April 2011 and he and his fund were banned from future
commodity trading, according to court records.  Just before the trial for the condominium complex theft,
Kim fled to  Hong Kong  using a fraudulently obtained U.S.
passport, according to prosecutors. He pleaded guilty to
passport fraud in federal court in Manhattan last month and was
sentenced yesterday to 14 months in prison, a portion of which
will run consecutive to his sentence today.  The state case is People v. Kim, 2011/86, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan). The CFTC suit is
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. Kim, 11-cv-01013,
and the federal passport fraud case is U.S. v. Kim, 11-cr-00642,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  