-- Elmo, Stahl, Sawyer Serenade Blackstone’s Pete Peterson
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-04-20T14:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/elmo-stahl-sawyer-serenade-blackstone-s-pete-peterson.html
Elmo, Cookie Monster and Abby
Cadabby, along with  Diane Sawyer  and Lesley Stahl, sang “As
Time Goes By” to  Pete Peterson  and his wife, Joan Ganz Cooney
last night.  The group Sawyer dubbed “Muppets and Harlots” was on hand
as the couple received the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Medal of
the Municipal Art Society of New York.  Peterson, 85, founded  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  with  Stephen Schwarzman  in 1985, after heading the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York and  Lehman Brothers . Cooney created “Sesame Street” and
Children’s Television Workshop.  Peterson used to “take credit for being the inspiration
for Oscar the Grouch, but I was dismayed people actually
believed it,” he said during dinner at the New York Public
Library.  Blackstone’s  Jonathan Gray , of the real-estate group, posed
for a photo with Cookie Monster and his performer David Rudman.  The firm’s A. J. Agarwal and Raffiq Nathoo were also
present, as were Blackstone alumni Sam Katz, managing partner of
TZP Group LLC, and Doug Korn, senior managing director at Irving
Place Capital Partners I LP.  Timothy Coleman  and Steven Zelin, of Blackstone’s
restructuring and reorganization group, sat with Lisa Donahue,
co-head of turnaround and restructuring at AlixPartners LLP, and
Jeffrey Aronson, co-founder of Centerbridge Partners LP.  During the meal of lobster, lamb and creme brulee,  Kenneth Chenault , chairman and chief executive of  American Express Co. (AXP) ,
talked to Anthony Marx, president of the  New York Public
Library , and Susan Freedman, president of the Public Art Fund.  Secretary Switch  Michael Hoffman, partner at Riverstone Holdings LLC, where
he invests in renewable energy, and an event chairman, said he
and Peterson switched secretaries when they worked at
Blackstone.  Hoffman still has the same secretary and sees Peterson
regularly: Their offices are two floors apart in a Fifth Avenue
building.  Post-Blackstone, Peterson has been “sharply focused on one
mission,” he said in a telephone interview yesterday: “Doing
something about this country’s long-term and, I think,
undeniable and unsustainable debts.”  To that end, the Peter G. Peterson Foundation is sponsoring
its third annual Fiscal Summit on May 15 in  Washington .  Confirmed participants include former President Bill Clinton, Speaker of the House John Boehner, Secretary of the
Treasury Timothy Geithner, Congressman  Paul Ryan  and Alan
Simpson, co-chairman of the National Commission on Fiscal
Responsibility and Reform.  “Because the politics are so difficult we are focusing on
how do we get something done before it’s too late to avoid a
crisis, European-style.” Peterson said.  ‘He’s a Marketer’  Blackstone Vice Chairman James Tomilson Hill said he plans
to attend the summit.  “If there’s any solution about the debt problem, Pete will
figure it out,” Hill said. “Above all he’s a marketer, with
the ability to get the idea into digestible form so people will
figure it out.”  On the subject of philanthropy, Peterson offered advice for
the Blackstone associate receiving his first bonus check.  “Do what gives you long-term -- emphasize long-term --
gratification,” Peterson said. “Find a cause you’re passionate
about, get involved in it, and then as you make money and can
afford it, make a financial contribution to that cause. Get
engaged not only financially but personally.”  He’s pleased his son David recently became chairman of the
 Harlem Academy .  “I just had lunch with him, and he talked very, very
excitedly about the progress they’ve made at the school,”
Peterson said. “In the old days when we were having lunch, all
we’d talk about was one financial deal or another. Today most of
the conversation was about the school.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include a  New York   Weekend Guide 
and a  review  of “Clybourne Park.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 