-- Emerging Stocks Head for Fifth Weeekly Drop on Economy
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-20T21:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/emerging-stocks-head-for-fifth-weeekly-drop-on-economy.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
fifth week, its longest stretch of losses since 2008, after the
Group of 20 nations warned the European debt crisis still
threatens global growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slid 0.2 percent to
1,021.51 at the close in New York, with 313 companies advancing
and 445 dropping. The gauge declined 0.5 percent this week.
Information technology companies led decliners, with  Asustek
Computer Inc. (2357)  sliding the most since November in Taipei today.
 Embraer SA (EMBR3) , a Brazilian manufacturer of defense aircraft, fell
the most in six weeks.  Finance chiefs from the G-20 met today in Washington to
join the  International Monetary Fund  and the U.S. in pressing
Europe to intensify efforts to calm turmoil as it spreads to
Spain. It was announced that governments committed more than
$430 billion to the IMF to help it protect the world economy
against a deepening debt crisis in Europe.  “This is certainly the biggest threat out there to
emerging-market growth right now,” John-Paul Smith, emerging
markets strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a phone
interview from  London .  The MSCI index has risen 11 percent this year, while the
 MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed nations added 8.4 percent. The
gauge of developing nations is valued at 10.6 times estimated
profit, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 12.4 times.  Fund Flows  Emerging-market equity funds posted an outflow of $712
million in the week ended April 18, Citigroup Inc.’s analysts
led by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report today, citing data
compiled by EPFR Global. The consecutive weekly outflows from
Asia excluding Japan funds since early March have erased all the
inflows in early 2012, they said.  Brazil’s Bovespa index fell 0.2 percent.  Fibria Celulose
SA (FIBR3) , the world’s largest pulp producer, rose 2.3 percent. Embraer
fell 2.2 percent after Goldman Sachs cut the company’s rating to
neutral from buy.  Poland’s  WIG 20 Index (WIG20)  fell 0.5 percent, for its lowest
close in three months.  Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA (BOS) , the Polish
state-owned bank that finances environmental projects, fell the
most in two weeks after setting the share price in a sale below
a previously given maximum.  Taiwan, South Korea  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  slumped 1.5 percent to its lowest
level since Jan. 30 after UBS cut the stock market to
underweight.  TPK Holdings Co. (3673) , which supplied touch panels to
previous iPhone models, slid 7 percent, its biggest decline
since Nov. 10. Apple is using new touch technology for the new
generation iPhone, hurting sales and earnings for TPK, KGI
Securities Co. said in a report.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell 1.3 percent.  LG Chem Ltd. (051910) 
tumbled 9.2 percent, the most since Sept. 5, making it the worst
performer on the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Russia’s Micex Index climbed 0.6 percent as OAO
Surgutneftegas, Russia’s fourth-largest oil producer, rose 1.2
percent after saying it will probably increase its dividend
payout.  South Africa’s  main shares gauge  rose 0.3 percent and pared
earlier losses of 0.5 percent.  Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd. (APN) , a
Johannesburg-based drugmaker, advanced 5.9 percent after it said
earnings will be boosted by the purchase of drug ranges from
GlaxoSmithKline Plc.  China ’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose to 2,406.86, its
highest close since March 19, extending the benchmark index’s
gains to a third week, on speculation the government will take
steps to bolster economic growth.  Chinese stocks  are UBS AG’s “biggest overweight” position
as the government eases monetary policy, and the economy avoids
a deeper slowdown, the brokerage’s Asian equity strategists
wrote in a report dated today.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 353, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 Charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  