-- Lenny Dykstra Faces New Charges in Bankruptcy Fraud Case
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-04-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/lenny-dykstra-faces-new-charges-in-bankruptcy-fraud-case.html
Lenny Dykstra , the former New York
Mets outfielder serving a three-year state prison term for grand
theft auto, faces new charges in a federal bankruptcy-fraud case
of stealing baseball memorabilia.  Dykstra, 48, is charged in a superseding indictment with
embezzling baseball equipment “purported to be World Series-
related.” The gloves, balls, bats, batting gloves, helmet and
shoes that Dykstra is accused of selling illegally were part of
his bankrupt estate, according to the April 17 indictment in
federal court in  Los Angeles .  The new allegations follow charges last year that Dykstra
looted his mansion north of Los Angeles after he filed for
bankruptcy in 2009. The former Major League Baseball player is
accused of taking $400,000 worth of fixtures, including
chandeliers, mirrors, a stove and a grandfather clock from his
mansion and secretly selling them.  The charges against Dykstra include bankruptcy fraud,
obstruction of justice and  money laundering . If convicted on all
counts, he could face a prison sentence of as long as 95 years.  Christopher Dybwad, a deputy federal public defender
representing Dykstra, didn’t immediately return a call to his
office seeking comment on the new charges.  Lewd Conduct  On April 18 in a separate case, Dykstra was sentenced to
270 days in prison after pleading no contest to charges of lewd
conduct and assault.  Dykstra told women who came to meet with him in response to
advertisements he placed on the Craigslist website for personal
assistants and housekeeping services that the job would require
giving him massages, according to the Los Angeles city attorney.
Dykstra exposed himself to the women and on one occasion held a
knife to force a victim to massage him, prosecutors said.  Last year, Dykstra pleaded no contest to charges he tried
to lease cars using phony business cards and credit information.
While a plea of no contest isn’t an admission of guilt, it is
equivalent to a guilty plea as far as possible punishment is
concerned.  Dykstra is scheduled to go on trial in the bankruptcy-fraud
case in July.  Dykstra, known as “Nails,” joined the Mets in 1985 and
helped the team win the  World Series  the following year. He
played for the  Philadelphia Phillies  from 1989 to 1996.  The outfielder finished second to  Barry Bonds  in National
League Most Valuable Player Award voting in 1993, when the
Phillies reached the World Series to face the  Toronto Blue Jays .
Dykstra had a career batting average of .285, with 81 home runs
and 404 runs batted in, according to baseball-reference.com.  The case is U.S. v. Dykstra, 11-00415, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  