-- MetLife Advances as Profit Exceeds Estimates: New York Mover
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-04-20T12:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/metlife-advances-as-profit-exceeds-estimates-new-york-mover.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, advanced in early trading after posting first-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Operating earnings, which exclude some investment results,
were about $1.37 a share, the New York-based insurer said in a
regulatory filing today releasing preliminary results. That beat
by 11 cents the average estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Operating revenue climbed 6.9 percent to $16.7
billion on gains in  Asia  and the Americas.  Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian  in November
reorganized leadership by giving top managers responsibility for
geographic regions as the company pursues expansion outside the
U.S. following the 2010 purchase of American Life Insurance Co.
The insurer is changing the presentation format for its results,
and in releasing year-earlier data to help investors understand
the reorganization, MetLife inadvertently made some 2012 figures
available on its website.  MetLife learned that its material could be “accessed in
ways to make visible the preliminary financial results for the
first quarter of 2012 which were otherwise embedded in the
document but not visible,” the company said in a statement.
“Therefore, MetLife has today furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission and posted to its website a new version of
the supplement with the preliminary financial results for the
first quarter of 2012 fully visible.”  The insurer advanced 2 percent to $36.09 at 8:38 a.m. in
 New York . The release of complete results will be moved up to
April 26 from May 2.  The first-quarter net loss was $64 million, compared with
net income of $877 million a year earlier, according to the
filing. Results in the three months ended March 31 included a
derivative loss of almost $2 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  