-- EU Starts Five Battles to Resuscitate Carbon Market, SocGen Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-04-20T11:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/eu-starts-five-battles-to-resuscitate-carbon-market-socgen-says.html
The European Union, already facing
criticism after expanding carbon trading this year to airlines,
has opened five battlegrounds in its bid to resuscitate its
flagging market, according to Societe Generale SA.  “It’s very clear their primary goal is to increase
prices,”  Emmanuel Fages , an analyst in Paris for the bank, said
today by phone. “It’s the result of their political ambition.”  EU permits today rose to the highest in a month after
Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said yesterday the bloc
may propose a delay in supply at carbon auctions starting next
year. Lawmakers would also continue to consider another plan to
temporarily cut supply, known as a set-aside, she told reporters
in Horsens,  Denmark .  There are three other policy initiatives that could also
boost prices, Fages said. The bloc is considering installing a
2030 target for the first time, tightening its 2020 target and
even expanding the market to include cars and trucks. The bloc
should consider expanding its emissions trading system to cover
the region’s transport industry and shouldn’t judge the
effectiveness of the program by a decline in carbon-permit
prices,  Poland  said in a report this month obtained by Bloomberg
News.  “I’m surprised Poland put on the table this uphill
battle,” since it has argued against the set aside, Fages said.
“Maybe that’s a way to show they have proposals and are not
always blocking things.”  Permits for delivery in December were little changed today
at 7.47 euros ($9.86) a metric ton on the ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange in  London  at 11:42 a.m. They earlier rose to their
highest level in a month, trading at 7.64 euros after reaching a
record low of 5.99 euros on April 4.  ‘Market Manipulation’  Poland, which gets about 90 percent of its electricity from
coal, yesterday upheld its objection to any measures that are
aimed at boosting the price of EU carbon allowances, saying they
would amount to “market manipulation.”  “My first reaction is that I’m skeptical,” Environment
Minister Marcin Korolec said in an interview. “We’d need to see
the details of such a proposal.”  The commission’s plan is the first step in a process to
strengthen the ETS and the EU will continue to explore “longer-
term structural issues,” including the set-aside of carbon
allowances, or withholding a number of permits from the market,
Hedegaard said.  The inclusion of flights to and from EU airports in the
European carbon cap-and-trade program triggered opposition from
countries including  China , the U.S. and  Russia , which said
Europe should let the  United Nations ’  International Civil
Aviation Organization  decide on greenhouse-gas limits for the
industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  