-- EU Urges Ministers to Reach Agreement on Bank Capital Law
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-04-20T13:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/eu-urges-ministers-to-reach-agreement-on-bank-capital-law.html
Bankers may face rules capping
their bonuses at no more than their fixed pay after European
Parliament lawmakers agreed on the measure as part of
negotiations on draft Basel capital rules.  Political groups in the European Union assembly “have an
agreement” on the one-to-one ratio between fixed and variable
pay, Philippe Lamberts, the lawmaker leading work on the rules
in the assembly’s Green group, said in an interview from
Strasbourg,  France  today. Talks will continue on additional pay
curbs, following a meeting of members of the parliament.  The bonuses cap was suggested last week by  Othmar Karas ,
the sponsor of the bill in the parliament, after members of the
assembly tabled dozens of amendments on pay. The law, which
implements rules published by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , must be endorsed by national governments and by the
parliament before it can come into effect.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  said
yesterday that he will forgo about 11 percent of his total
compensation until the bank improves profitability in a bid to
placate investors opposed to his pay package. His move follows a
decision by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  shareholders to reject that bank’s
executive pay plan.  The parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee
postponed an April 25 vote on the legislation to allow more time
for the assembly’s members to thrash out further compromises,
Lamberts said.  Open Issues  “There are still too many open issues to conclude next
week,” Lamberts said in an interview. The vote is “certain”
to be postponed.  Karas’s office declined to comment.  The parliament won’t have a final position on the draft law
until May at the earliest, Lamberts said. Outstanding issues
being discussed among political groups include whether to set
a separate ratio imposing a limit on the gap between bank’s
highest earners and the average amount paid to staff.  The assembly is also undecided on whether to set a binding
limit on lenders’ indebtedness, Lamberts said.  Diplomats from the region’s 27 member states will discuss
the draft law next week.  Denmark , which holds the rotating
presidency of the EU, is targeting a deal by finance
ministers on the law at a meeting on May 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 