-- Ex-Wallaby Lynagh Suffered Significant Stroke, Neurologist Says
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-20T05:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/ex-wallaby-lynagh-suffered-significant-stroke-neurologist-says.html
Michael Lynagh, Australia’s leading
points scorer in elite international rugby, is in a “critical
but stable condition” in a Brisbane hospital after suffering
what doctors said was a significant stroke.  Lynagh, 48, a  World Cup  winner in 1991, suffered a
cerebellar and occipital lobe stroke that has affected his
vision, coordination and balance,  Rob Henderson , a neurologist
at the Royal Brisbane and Women’s Hospital, said in a statement.
He was admitted to the hospital four days ago after being taken
ill while visiting family.  “This significant stroke is a rare event for someone of
Michael’s age,” Henderson said. “The next few days are
critical because of swelling in the region of the brain stem,
but current signs are positive.”  Lynagh’s stroke was caused by a blood flow blockage that is
believed to have been caused by a clot originating from a split
in the artery wall, Henderson added.  Former fly-half Lynagh, who made his debut for  Australia  at
age 20 in 1984, scored a record 911 points in 72 Tests for the
Wallabies before retiring in 1995 as the sport’s leading scorer.
His world record tally lasted until 1999, when it was surpassed
by Neil Jenkins of Wales.  At the 1991 World Cup, Lynagh scored a late try in a
quarterfinal against Ireland to give Australia a one-point
victory and kicked eight points in the Wallabies’ 12-6 win over
host  England  in the final.  Saracens Stint  He signed for Saracens in England in 1996 after the sport
went professional and retired two years later. He captained
Saracens to victory in the 1998 Tetley Bitter Cup, the club’s
first trophy in its 122-year history.  In April 2002, Lynagh joined the International Rugby Board
to assist with the global development and promotion of the
sport, though resigned in September that year. He’s since worked
in marketing and as a rugby analyst for U.K. broadcasters
including  Sky Sports .  “On behalf of Michael, I would like to thank the public
and his friends for their well wishes and the overwhelming
support,” Lynagh’s father, Ian, said in the statement. “It has
been a difficult few days and it is reassuring to know that
there are so many people who care.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  