-- Mexican Peso Rises for First Time in Three Days on Buoyed Risk
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-04-20T15:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/mexican-peso-rises-for-first-time-in-three-days-on-buoyed-risk.html
Mexico ’s peso advanced for the
first time in three days after European economic reports eased
sovereign-debt concern and made higher-yielding assets in
emerging markets more attractive to investors.  The currency was the best performer against the dollar
among the most-traded Latin American tenders tracked by
Bloomberg as a report showed Mexico’s unemployment rate dropped
to 4.62 percent in March. The peso was headed for its first
rally in six weeks on reduced demand among investors for a
refuge in the world’s main reserve currency.  “It’s sort of a risk-on day,”  Win Thin , global head of
emerging-markets strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., said
by phone from  New York . The peso “just continues to be one of
these high-beta currencies. Good days it does well, bad days it
gets killed,” he said. Beta measures risk relative to a market.  The peso appreciated 0.6 percent to 13.1204 per dollar at
9:31 a.m. in Mexico City. It has advanced 0.4 percent this week,
boosting its gain against the dollar in 2012 to 6.2 percent for
the best performance among the 16 most-traded currencies.  The yield on government debt due in 2024 dropped two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.23 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The price increased 0.24 centavo to
132.87 centavos per peso.  The Mexican currency rose as a German business  climate
index  unexpectedly climbed to a nine-month high in April and
U.K. retail data today showed the fastest sales increase in the
more than a year  last month .  Concern that  Europe ’s fiscal turmoil will drag on demand
for Mexican exports helped make the peso  Latin America ’s worst-
performing major currency last year with a drop of more than 11
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  