-- Mexico Automaking Marks Luxury Shift With New Audi Plant
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-04-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/mexico-automaking-marks-luxury-shift-with-new-audi-plant.html
Mexico ’s automobile industry, once
focused on small cars and pickup trucks, got a boost when Audi
AG chose the country as the location for a new factory to build
its Q5 sport-utility vehicle for the global market.  The announcement by the Volkswagen AG-owned carmaker on
April 18 suggests that Mexico will be competitive in a wider
range of automobile production including luxury models, said
Armando Soto, president of Kaso y Asociados, a Mexico City-based
auto industry consulting firm.  “The fact that Audi is coming to build  luxury vehicles  is
going to reposition global perceptions of Mexico as a
manufacturing platform,” Soto said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “This sends a signal that Mexico can produce luxury
vehicles very competitively. It’s not just production of small
cars and pickups.”  Over the last 12 months,  Mazda Motor Co. (7261) ,  Honda Motor Co. (7267) 
and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  have also announced plans to build new
factories in Mexico, where the industry is benefiting from the
nation’s lower wages, proximity to the U.S. and free-trade
agreements with more than 30 countries.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said in
March that it would invest $1.3 billion in its northern-Mexico
plant to produce the new Fusion and Lincoln MKZ models.  The Audi factory, the company’s first in  North America ,
will have an initial capacity of 150,000 Q5s a year, said Audi
Chief Executive Officer Rupert Stadler at a briefing yesterday
in Hamburg. The plant will begin operating in 2016.  Namesake Brand  “As an established carmaking location, Mexico offers an
excellent economic basis for Audi production operations,” Audi
said in a  statement .  Audi will join German competitors Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG and Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz unit in making SUVs in North
America for delivery worldwide. The carmaker will choose a
location for the Mexican plant later this year. Volkswagen’s
namesake brand already has a car plant and engine factory in
Mexico.  Mexico produced 2.68 million vehicles in 2011, up 14
percent from the year before, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Automobile export production during the first three months
of 2012 rose 15 percent to 604,212 units, according to the
 Mexican Automobile Industry Association . Nissan, Volkswagen and
 General Motors Co. (GM)  ranked as the top exporters during that
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Dallas at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  