-- Facebook, Nestle, Greg Norman, Fiat: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-04-20T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/facebook-nestle-greg-norman-fiat-intellectual-property.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the biggest social-
networking service, made an offer for  AOL Inc. (AOL) ’s patent
portfolio before losing out to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s $1.06 billion
bid, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The proposal from  Menlo Park , California-based Facebook was
too low, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the discussions haven’t been disclosed. Facebook Chief Operating
Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  led the negotiations to acquire AOL’s
patents, one person said.  Microsoft intends to sell most of the newly acquired
portfolio because it doesn’t consider all of the 800 patents and
related applications essential to its  intellectual property 
arsenal, according to another person with knowledge of the
matter. The technology industry has been bulking up on patents
amid a surge in disputes over ownership of rights to key
breakthroughs in areas such as mobile communications.  Facebook said it’s buying the Instagram photo-sharing tool
for $1 billion the same day Microsoft unveiled the AOL deal.  Larry Yu, a spokesman for Facebook, declined to comment, as
did  Kevin Kutz , a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft and Caroline Campbell, a spokeswoman for New York-
based AOL.  Facebook has lined up $8 billion of available credit from
its IPO underwriters. Like more established technology
companies, such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Google, it is buying
intellectual property to protect itself from patent-infringement
litigation.  Facebook, which is in the midst of a patent dispute with
 Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , acquired 750 patents from  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , a person with knowledge of the matter said on
March 22. Yahoo sued Facebook on March 12, alleging that the
social network infringed patents covering such functions as
Internet advertising and information sharing.  “If an unfavorable outcome were to occur in this
litigation, the impact could be material to our business,
financial condition or results of operations,” Facebook said in
a March 27 filing.  Nestle Wins Backing in Europe Over Nespresso System Patent  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Nespresso coffee brand won the backing of the
 European Patent Office  over a disputed patent covering its
coffee machine and capsules.  The regulator upheld the existing patent in an “amended
form” by a committee of technical experts following objections
made by companies including  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) , the office said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The competing companies have
the right to appeal the decision, the Munich-based body said.  Nespresso has sued companies including Sara Lee for alleged
patent infringement while rejecting counterclaims. Rivals say
their capsules don’t infringe on any patents, seeking to edge in
on a market where retail sales may climb 47 percent globally
from 2010 to 2015, according to Euromonitor International.  “The decision of the court was positive for our
Nespresso” system, Nespresso Chief Executive Officer Richard
Girardot said. “Obviously we are satisfied.”  Sara Lee is studying the office’s amendment to determine if
it needs to take further steps, Ernesto Duran, a spokesman for
Sara Lee based in the Netherlands, said by e-mail.  Nestle has built Nespresso into a brand worth more than 3.5
billion francs ($3.8 billion) after more than a decade of
double-digit growth by marketing the coffee as an affordable
luxury.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Orthodox Union Sues MOOMilk for Using Mark Without Authorization  The Union of Orthodox Congregations of American, one of the
organizations that provides Kosher certification for food in the
U.S., sued a Maine organic dairy for trademark infringement.  The group’s complaint, filed in federal court in Boston
April 11, claims Maine’s Own Organic Milk Company L3C used the
Orthodox union’s trademark without authorization. The union’s
mark, known as a “hechsher” is a circle containing the letter
“U”, and is placed on food to indicate that it is certified as
fit for consumption under Jewish law.  The Orthodox union said it initially contacted the dairy
about its unauthorized use of the hechsher in June 2010. The
dairy, known as MOOMilk, applied for certification that month
and received its initial inspection in December 2010, according
to the complaint.  The dairy never paid the fees and, continued to use the
hechsher on its cartons without authorization, the Orthodox
union said in its court papers.  The Orthodox union said it’s harmed by the unauthorized use
of the mark, and that kosher consumers are likely to be confused
and misled when they see it on MOOMilk’s products.  The group asked the court to bar further use of the
hechsher without authorization and for awards of money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs.  Filed with the complaint is a series of letters between the
union and the dairy in which an official of the Maine-based
company said that it lacked the $5,500 necessary for
certification.  MOOMilk’s executive director, William Eldridge, said in an
e-mail that it’s pulling milk cartons off the shelf that contain
the mark. With the union’s permission, that milk is being
donated to the Boston Food Bank with the mark blacked out, and
Eldridge said he is in settlement discussions with the Orthodox
union’s legal counsel  The Orthodox union is represented by  Charles L. Solomont 
and  David J. Butler  of Boston’s Bingham McCutchen LLP.  The case is Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of
America v. Maine’s Own Organic Milk Co. L3c.  Greg Norman Gear Sold Outside Licensed Area Infringes Trademark  Australia’s Federal Court has dismissed an appeal of a
trademark-infringement case involving marks associated with golf
pro  Greg Norman , the Australia SmartCompany website  reported .  Paul’s Retail Pt. Ltd.’s  Paul’s Warehouse  unit, a discount
retailer of sporting goods, was found to have infringed Norman’s
trademarks by importing and selling goods that were licensed
only to be sold within India, according to SmartCompany.  The court found that the trademark owner hadn’t consented
to the use of its marks for goods that were to be delivered
outside the territory covered by the license, SmartCompany
reported.  Costs were awarded to the brand owner, according to
SmartCompany.  Alfa Romeo Sets Return to U.S. as 4C Sports-Car Brand Filed  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Alfa Romeo division took a step closer to its
return to the U.S. after registering the brand of its 4C compact
sports car, the unit’s first model targeted for sale in the
country in almost 20 years.  The Alfa Romeo 4C trademark, covering accessories such as
clothing and toys as well as the vehicle and parts, was issued
by  U.S. Patent and Trademark Office  on April 10, according to a
release posted late April 18 on the U.S. Federal News Service.  The 4C is part of a revamp of Alfa Romeo that will include
the new Giulia sedan, which will be based on the Dodge Dart
platform of Fiat-controlled Chrysler Group LLC for a lineup
developed and made in the U.S. starting in 2014, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  The production version of the two-seat 4C may be displayed
at the 2013 Geneva car show, said the person, who declined to be
named as the plan is private.  Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  plans to
remake Alfa into a luxury brand to compete with industry leader
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. Developing a full range of models
for Alfa and focusing on North America’s car-market growth are
crucial to his strategy of boosting combined revenue at Turin,
Italy-based Fiat and Chrysler to more than 100 billion euros
($131 billion) by 2014.  “The return of Alfa in the U.S. is critical for the group
as a global player needs to have an upscale brand in a major
market as North America,”  Jeff Schuster , LMC’s senior vice
president of forecasting in Troy, Michigan, said in a phone
interview. “This is a real sign Alfa will come back to U.S.”  Gucci-Guess Trial Over ‘Studied Imitations’ Claim Concludes  Gucci America Inc., (GES)  the maker of luxury clothing and
accessories, made its final arguments in federal court yesterday
in a lawsuit claiming that Guess? Inc. copied its trademarked
designs.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin conducted a three-week
nonjury trial of Gucci’s infringement claims in Manhattan. She
reserved judgment yesterday and told lawyers for both sides
after their closing arguments to submit post-trial documents
“as quickly as you can. I want to get through this while it’s
still fresh in my mind,” she said.  Gucci, a unit of Paris-based  PPR (PP) , sued Guess in 2009
claiming that the Los Angeles-based clothing maker was selling
apparel and accessories in stores and online with logos that are
“studied imitations of the Gucci trademarks.” The imitations
included a green-and-red stripe design, a square G, the
designer’s name in flowing script and a diamond pattern with
repeating interlocking G’s.  “This was in fact a calculated scheme to infringe on some
of Gucci’s most iconic trademarks,” Louis Ederer, a lawyer for
Gucci, said in his closing argument. He said in March that $221
million worth of Guess products infringed Gucci’s designs.  Guess said in court papers that Gucci has no right to claim
infringement because it “sat on its rights” for at least seven
years before suing.  Gucci is seeking monetary damages and other assessments
totaling as much as $120 million, Ederer said in court.  Scheindlin interrupted Ederer’s closing at one point to
ask why Gucci had waited years before filing the lawsuit.  “Millions of products were sold in the U.S. with Quattro G
designs,” the judge said. “The advertisements were all over
the place. How could they have missed it?”  Ederer replied, “Private investigators were looking for a
lot of other things besides what other fashion designers were
doing. We were focused on counterfeiting. No one came forward
and notified anyone at Gucci America about this.”  The defendants also include Guess’s exclusive footwear
licensee, Marc Fisher Footwear, Max Leather Group and Swank Inc.  “Gucci’s claims of a sophisticated and elaborate scheme
are simply not supported by evidence,” Darren Saunders, a
lawyer for Marc Fisher, said in his closing argument. “What are
Gucci’s claims really about? They’re about a few shoes that,
yes, came too close.”  The case is Gucci America v. Guess Inc., 09-4373, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Sony-Led Group Wins EU Approval to Buy EMI Music Publishing  A Sony Corp.-led group won European Union approval for its
$2.2 billion purchase of EMI Group’s music publishing unit after
it agreed to sell rights to chart hits by Robbie Williams and
Ozzy Osbourne.  The European Commission approved the deal after the Sony
group offered to sell the global rights to EMI’s Virgin catalogs
and Sony/ATV Music Publishing’s Famous U.K. portfolio, the
regulator said in an e-mailed statement.  Sony and Mubadala Development Co. “have offered to divest
valuable and attractive catalogs containing bestselling titles
as well as works of successful and promising authors,” EU
Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said in the statement.
“I am therefore satisfied that the competitive dynamics in the
online music publishing business will be maintained.”  The deal will give the Sony group control of EMI’s
publishing rights to classics such as “New York, New York” and
“Stand By Your Man,” adding to a portfolio of songs by Elvis
Presley, the Beatles and Bob Dylan. Sony/ATV, the joint venture
formed in 1995 that is co-owned by  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Michael
Jackson’s estate, will oversee the new business.  The Sony consortium, which includes billionaire David
Geffen and Mubadala, an investment unit owned by the Abu Dhabi
government, “is pleased that commission’s issues were addressed
in its initial review period so that the transaction could be
approved,” said Jimmy Asci, a spokesman for Sony/ATV in New
York in an e-mailed statement.  The Sony group’s offer to sell the song catalogs eliminated
antitrust concerns about the company’s control over online
rights for chart hits by British and American artists, the EU
said. “Anglo-American chart hits are an indispensable part of
any online platform offering to consumers,” it said.  Dylan Jones, a spokesman for EMI, and Warner Music Group,
an unsuccessful bidder for EMI, both declined to comment.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  agreed in November to sell EMI Group’s
recorded-music and publishing businesses in separate
transactions for a combined $4.1 billion. Universal will buy
EMI’s record labels, home to Katy Perry and Coldplay, for 1.2
billion pounds ($1.9 billion), according to statements in
November.  Impala, a Brussels-based group of independent record labels
that opposed the deal, is convinced that “the impact of this
merger on the livelihood of authors has been underestimated,
while the ability of the remedies to secure future competition
has been overestimated,” Helen Smith, the group’s executive
chair, said in an e-mail.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Honigman Miller Adds Former Patent Examiner to IP Practice Group  Honigman Miller Schwartz & Cohn LLP hired Paola Abi-Nader
for its IP practice, the Detroit-based firm said in a  statement .  Abi-Nader , who will be doing patent-application work for
high-tech companies, previously was a patent examiner at the
U.s. Patent and Trademark Office. Before she was a lawyer, she
worked as an engineer in the auto-supply industry.  She has an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering
from  Wayne State University  and a law degree from Detroit Mercy
School of the Law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 