-- Fairmont San Francisco Hotel to Be Sold for $200 Million
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-04-20T08:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/fairmont-san-francisco-hotel-to-be-sold-for-200-million.html
Fairmont Hotels & Resorts Inc. is
linking the interest rate of a loan it’s seeking to forthcoming
credit ratings, signaling the operator of  London ’s Savoy and the
Plaza in New York is preparing for a bond sale, a person with
direct knowledge of the deal said.  The resort chain, used as settings for Alfred Hitchcock
films including North by Northwest and Vertigo, has included a
so-called ratings grid that would be used to price the $500
million loan when it obtains ratings, said the person, who
didn’t want to be identified because the plans aren’t public.  A credit rating would broaden the Toronto-based company’s
appeal to international investors and enable it to sell bonds.
It last issued convertible bonds without credit ratings in 2003,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The loan stipulates that with the lowest investment-grade
ratings of Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by
 Standard & Poor’s , Fairmont would pay interest at 150 basis
points more than the London interbank offered rate, the person
said.  While Fairmont remains unrated, loan interest will vary
from 250 basis points to 450 basis points more than benchmark
rates depending on the company’s leverage, or net debt as a
ratio of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, the person said. With leverage at 5.5 times
Fairmont would pay 450 basis points more than benchmark rates.
The margin would fall to 250 basis points if leverage declines
to two times.  Mike Taylor , a spokesman for Fairmont Hotels in Toronto,
declined to comment.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ’s RBC Capital
Markets are arranging the four-year facility, split into a  term
loan  and revolving credit, which includes a one-year extension
option, the person said.  Prince Alwaleed bin Talal’s  Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM)  has a 35
percent stake in the hotel chain. The Saudi billionaire cut his
holdings from 58 percent two years ago to bring in new
investment from Voyager Partners Ltd. and pave the way for an
intitial public offering, Alwaleed said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  