-- Fed Creates Council to Study Stress Tests of U.S. Banks
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-04-20T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/fed-creates-council-to-study-stress-tests-of-u-s-banks.html
The  Federal Reserve  created an
advisory council of economists to help evaluate the models used
in so-called stress tests judging how banks would perform in a
poor economy.  The Model Validation Council will provide the Fed “expert
and independent advice on its process to rigorously assess the
models used in stress tests of banking institutions,” the
central bank said in a statement today in Washington. “The
council is intended to improve the quality of the Federal
Reserve’s model assessment program and to strengthen the
confidence in the integrity and independence of the program.”  U.S. regulators, empowered by the Dodd-Frank Act and
criticized for not averting the crisis in mortgage finance, have
redesigned their approach to bank supervision, focusing more on
systemic risk. They seek to prevent a repeat of the financial
crisis that led to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
in the largest bankruptcy in U.S. history.  The central bank last month released the results of stress
tests showing that 15 out of 19 banks would be able to maintain
capital levels above a regulatory minimum in an “extremely
adverse” economic scenario, even while continuing to pay
dividends and repurchasing stock. Those results were due to
scrutiny by the Fed on capital payouts over the past three
years, the central bank said.  Citigroup Inc.,  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) ,  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) 
and  MetLife Inc. (MET)  failed to meet some minimum standards in the
tests.  Committee of Economists  The committee will be led by Francis X. Diebold, an
economics professor at the University of Pennsylvania. The panel
will also include Peter Christoffersen, of the University of
Toronto; Mark Flannery, from the University of  Florida ; Philippe Jorion, from the  University of California  at Irvine; Chester Spatt, from Carnegie Mellon University; and Allan Timmermann,
from the University of California at San Diego.  The Fed also released a list of answers to frequently asked
questions that arose during the recent round of stress testing,
covering topics including methodologies to project losses for
mortgages and other consumer portfolios, mortgage repurchase
risk and wholesale portfolios. The central bank will hold a
symposium on the models used in stress tests at the Federal
Reserve Bank of Boston on Sept. 13 and 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ; res3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  