-- Fenway Park at 100 Doubles Revenue as Red Sox Seek More Profit
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-04-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/fenway-park-at-100-doubles-revenue-as-red-sox-seek-more-profit.html
Boston Red Sox owner and hedge fund
manager  John Henry  has done what his predecessors said couldn’t
be done with Fenway Park, which celebrates its 100th birthday
today as the oldest stadium in  Major League Baseball .  Since buying the club in 2002, Henry has refurbished and
expanded the park that previous owners had marked for the
 wrecking ball . That’s pleased preservationists and helped more
than double revenue, bankrolling teams that won two World Series
titles. The Red Sox will mark the centennial of the first
official game at Fenway today in a rematch with the New York
Highlanders, since renamed the Yankees. All former managers and
players were invited to attend.  Aside from a 4-8 start to the season that has the team in
last place in the  American League East , just one thing might
spoil the celebration: Henry and Larry Lucchino, the team’s
chief executive officer and the force behind Fenway’s renewal,
may have run out of ways to make the old ballpark print new
money.  “They have, without a doubt, put their arms around a lot
more revenue,” said Glenn Stout, author of “Fenway Park
1912.”  The decision by current owners to stick with Fenway dates
to before Henry took over a partnership first led by Les Otten,
founder of American Skiing Co. Otten, who sold his minority
stake in the club in 2007, said he was committed to preserving
the grounds since making a visit to Fenway around 1998 to see
his friend and then-general manager Dan Duquette.  As they looked down on the largely empty field from
Duquette’s box, they spotted a man on a paid tour shaking his
trousers as he stood on the center-field warning track. Dust
plumed from the bottom of his pant legs.  “Dan said, ‘You won’t believe the lengths people will go
to spread the ashes of a loved one on the field at Fenway
Park,’” Otten said in an interview.  Obsolete Fenway  A year later, then  Red Sox  CEO John Harrington said Fenway
was obsolete. “It just doesn’t allow us to compete like teams
with modern ballparks do,” he told the Boston Globe.  Henry could have changed course. While the previous owners’
goal to build a new park next door had foundered on neighborhood
opposition, that plan had received a $300 million commitment
from the Massachusetts legislature. According to Otten, Major
League Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  also wanted a new
stadium. Instead, Henry embraced Otten’s plan.  “Our predisposition was always that it should be saved if
it could be saved,” said Lucchino, 66. “But it had to be saved
in a way that enabled us to generate the kinds of revenue
necessary to be competitive.”  Fake Fenways  At the time, professional baseball was in the middle of a
building boom, with several teams constructing venues designed
to look like early 20th century ballparks. The style was
inspired by Lucchino, who had overseen construction of Oriole
Park at Camden Yards as president of the  Baltimore Orioles .  Fenway had the nostalgia part covered. As the smallest park
in baseball at the time, what it lacked was capacity and the
modern features that could help owners make more money. So, as
Lucchino set out to renovate Fenway, he copied the parks that
had copied Fenway.  New seats came first -- behind home plate, atop the left
field “Green Monster,” on the right field roof and high above
third base. That made room for another 3,500 customers, a 10
percent increase in a park that has sold every seat of every
game for almost a decade.  While the club doesn’t release figures breaking down
revenue, there are more signs inside, with advertisements now
adorning almost every available facade and a number of sections
named for corporate sponsors.  Speedier Concessions  The club also bought adjacent buildings and knocked down
walls, allowing them to turn choked corridors into wider
concourses. Aside from giving patrons space, it allowed for
faster-working concessions stands offering a greater selection,
according to Janet Marie Smith, an architect who worked with
Lucchino on Camden Yards and oversaw the renovation at Fenway.  Mayor Tom Menino cooperated, as well, giving the team the
right to build the Green Monster seats above neighboring
Landsdowne Street and granting permission for the club to
connect the park with adjacent structures, a move normally
prohibited under fire codes.  Doubling Revenue  The team’s annual revenue has climbed 104 percent to $310
million, second only to the Yankees’ $439 million, since the
Henry group took over just before the 2002 season, according to
data compiled by Forbes magazine. That growth outpaced the 78
percent average jump for major league teams. The majority of the
increase in Boston has come from “attendance and ballpark-
related revenue,” Lucchino said.  During the same period, the team’s payroll rose 58 percent
to $173 million, also second to the Yankees, and the average
non-premium ticket price by 48 percent, according to USA Today
and research firm Team Marketing Report.  As costs go up, new government help is on the way. In
March, the club succeeded in adding Fenway to the National
Register of Historic Places. More than something to brag about,
the designation comes with a federal tax credit worth $39.4
million -- 20 percent of qualified rehabilitation costs -- and
makes the Sox eligible for an equal amount of credits from the
state, according to Brian McNiff, spokesman for the Secretary of
the Commonwealth’s office, which oversees the state historical
commission. So far the club has secured $11.2 million in state
credits.  No More Room  Looking ahead, as the payroll continues to rise, the Sox
are out of options for expanding the park, Stout said. That in
mind, he isn’t convinced this year’s celebration of Fenway’s
history means the Sox won’t soon contemplate a new home.  “After the marketing possibilities of the anniversary are
over and done with, I wonder when they’ll start to express
anxiety about remaining in the park,” he said. “Within a
decade I bet we’ll start hearing whispers that now we really are
at the end.”  Not from this ownership, Lucchino said.  “As Charlie Dressen used to say,” said Lucchino, quoting
the former Brooklyn Dodgers manager, “‘Stay close for eight
innings, and I’ll think of something.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  