-- Fired Credit Agricole Banker Loses Bid to Restore Lost Bonus
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-04-20T15:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/fired-credit-agricole-banker-loses-bid-to-restore-lost-bonus.html
A senior investment banker at
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  who claimed he was threatened by a manager
and unfairly dismissed, doesn’t deserve any compensation, a
London employment tribunal ruled.  Edward Willems, the French lender’s former deputy head of
fixed-income markets, sought “millions of pounds” in the suit.
He told the tribunal in February he felt “betrayed” when he
lost his job after reporting his boss Guy Laffineur’s behavior
under rules that protect whistle-blowers from punishment.  While Willems was unfairly dismissed in July 2011, it
wasn’t because of the dispute with Laffineur, tribunal judge
Anthony Snelson said in a written judgment dated March 30.
Credit Agricole had decided he “was not the appropriate person
to take on the new sales role” and “was too closely associated
with the earlier regime,” Snelson said.  Damages for wrongful dismissal are normally capped at about
72,000 pounds ($116,000). In whistle-blower cases, employment
tribunals can award unlimited compensation, making it a popular
recourse for bankers suing their former employers.  “No compensatory award is appropriate,” Snelson said.
“The claimant must be content with a finding that his dismissal
was unfair.”  Willems said in a phone interview that he was disappointed
with the part of the ruling that applied to compensation only
because “unlawful behavior should result in a penalty.”  ‘Baseless Allegations’  “The tribunal made clear findings that I was unfairly
dismissed and that I suffered several other detriments, namely
the level of my bonus and baseless allegations made against
me,” Willems said.  Credit Agricole  spokeswoman Charlotte McMullen declined to
comment.  Willems claimed in the lawsuit that after he told a human
resources representative that Laffineur was blocking his efforts
to overhaul the fixed-income division, his boss “stormed” into
his office and appeared “physically threatening,” Credit
Agricole lawyer Nicholas Randall told the tribunal in February.  Willems received a bonus of 867,896 pounds in 2010, an
award he felt was “strikingly low and utterly inappropriate,”
according to Snelson’s ruling. Martin Fraenkel, head of
commodities, and Benjamin Mellul, head of interest rate
derivatives, that year received 890,000 pounds and 1.3 million
euros ($1.7 million) respectively.  Snelson found that Willems’s bonus was reduced by about 10
percent. If the intention had been to punish him for reporting
Laffineur, “we would have expected a much more severe
discount,” Snelson said in the ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  