-- First Brazil IPO Since July Flops
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-04-20T17:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/first-brazil-ipo-since-july-falters-as-locamerica-discounts-36-.html
Brazil ’s first initial public
offering since July struggled to lure investors as  Cia. de
Locacao das Americas , a Sao Paulo-based car-rental company,
priced shares 36 percent below the upper end of its target.  Locamerica and its holders are selling as many as 30.9
million shares for 9 reais ($4.82) each after saying in the
 prospectus  they aimed to price the stock at between 11 reais and
14 reais, according to data posted on Brazil’s securities
regulator’s website. The company may raise as much as 313.9
million reais in the primary and secondary offer, the data show.  “The main problem with IPOs such as Locamerica’s is that
they’re not of a substantial size,”  Ed Kuczma , who helps manage
$34 billion at Van Eck Associates in  New York , said by phone.
“They’re small-, mid-sized companies that are trying to raise
money. Large asset managers in the U.S. want to make sure
there’ll be sufficient liquidity so they can be able to trade on
these companies once they go public.”  Locamerica’s listing broke the longest drought in Brazilian
IPOs since a 12-month dry spell in the wake of the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. that ended in June 2009.  Brasil
Travel Turismo e Participacoes SA  canceled its first-time sale
in February, citing “unfavorable” market conditions.  BTG IPO  While Locamerica struggled to drum up demand for its
offering, Brazil’s IPO market will likely get a lift next week
when billionaire  Andre Esteves  offers shares in his bank, Banco
BTG Pactual SA, according to Fausto Gouveia, who helps manage
380 million reais at Legan Administracao de Recursos. BTG
Pactual, founded and led by Esteves, and its shareholders are
seeking to raise as much as 4.1 billion reais in Sao Paulo.  “It depends from case to case,” Gouveia said by phone
from Sao Paulo. “BTG’s IPO next week, for example, should be
more interesting as it’s a bank whose business is very well
known in Brazil.”  The Bovespa index has gained 11 percent this year,
following an 18 percent slump in 2011, boosted by local
interest-rate cuts, signs of a stronger recovery in the U.S. and
easing concerns about  Europe ’s debt crisis. The benchmark is
down 2.3 percent so far this month as signs of a slowdown in
 China , Brazil’s biggest trading partner, spurred speculation
that demand for commodities exports may falter.  Before Locamerica, Abril Educacao SA was the last company
to do an IPO in Brazil, raising 371 million reais with its
shareholders in July.  Locamerica plans to use the proceeds to buy cars and boost
its cash position, according to the prospectus. The company
posted net income of 22.6 million reais in 2011, according to a
statement on its website. Competitor  Localiza Rent a Car SA ,
 Latin America ’s biggest car-rental company, posted a profit of
291.6 million reais last year.  The stock starts trading in  Sao Paulo  on April 23 under the
ticker LCAM3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  