-- Fondiaria Rescue Plan Risks Delay on Milan Investigation
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-04-20T14:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/fondiaria-s-rescue-plan-risks-delay-amid-milan-investigation.html
Unipol Gruppo Finanziario SpA (UNI) ’s
planned rescue of  Fondiaria-SAI SpA (FSA) ,  Italy ’s second-biggest
insurer, may be delayed after a prosecutor requested the
seizure of a 20 percent stake in Fondiaria’s biggest investor.  The request to seize the shares in  Premafin Finanziaria SpA (PF) 
was made by Milan prosecutor Luigi Orsi as part of his probe
into market manipulation by the company’s founder Salvatore Ligresti, according to court documents obtained by Bloomberg
News.  “The investigation involving Premafin may cause a delay in
the plan to rescue Fondiaria,” said Stefano Girola, who helps
manage about 3 billion euros ($4 billion) at Albertini Syz & Co.
in Milan, and doesn’t own stock in the company. “The bailout of
Fondiaria is important for the country.”  Unipol agreed in January to buy new shares in Ligresti’s
Premafin as part of a plan to rescue the unprofitable insurer.
The purchase would allow Premafin to participate in the 1.1
billion-euro stock sale announced by Fondiaria on Jan. 30.
Unipol wants to carry out a four-way merger to create an insurer
to challenge  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , Italy’s largest.  Fondiaria said yesterday it backed the merger plan and will
continue to pursue a transaction, though it wants Unipol’s terms
reviewed. Unipol’s proposal would give it at least a 67 percent
stake in Turin, Italy-based Fondiaria.  Family Patriarch  Ligresti, the 80-year-old patriarch of the family that
controls at least 51 percent of Premafin, is under investigation
for market manipulation, the documents show. Ligresti allegedly
pushed up Premafin’s share price between November 2009 and
September 2010 to avoid the renegotiation of loan agreements
backed by Premafin shares, according to the documents.  Marco  De Luca , Ligresti’s attorney, didn’t respond to two
phone calls seeking a comment. A spokeswoman for Premafin and
Fondiaria declined to comment on the matter. A Unipol spokesman
wouldn’t comment.  Orsi ordered the seizure of the 20 percent Premafin stake
held by Heritage Trust and The Ever Green Trust, two foreign
trusts the prosecutors claim have been owned by Ligresti since
2003, according to the court documents. Ligresti has declined to
respond to requests by Italian stock market watchdog Consob to
provide information about the trusts, Consob said in a Feb. 22
statement.  Market Watchdog  “The merger process probably will slow down because Unipol
is going to have to protect itself from the eventual legal
consequences after the acquisition,” Fabrizio Spagna, chairman
of Milan-based Axia Financial Research.  Unipol dropped 7 percent to 22 euros as of 3 p.m. in Milan
today, while Fondiaria declined 7.8 percent to 96.95 cents.
Premafin fell as much as 11 percent.  Matteo Arpe’s firm Sator Capital Limited and Palladio
Finanziaria SpA, an Italian investment fund, have made a rival
rescue bid for Fondiaria.  Fondiaria, which gets most of its revenue from property and
casualty businesses, is suffering from rising claims and tougher
competition at home. The insurer posted a  net loss  of 852.7
million euros last year, after it wrote down the value of non-
strategic assets and real estate by 657 million euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  