-- Fracking-Linked Earthquakes Spurring State Regulations
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-04-20T15:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/fracking-linked-earthquakes-spurring-state-regulations.html
With scientific evidence emerging
that wastewater from oil and gas drilling is the possible cause
of earthquakes, states are adding new requirements for disposal
wells.  Researchers think an increase in wastewater injected into
the ground by drilling operators may be the cause of a sixfold
increase in the number of earthquakes that have shaken the
central part of the U.S. from 2000 to 2011, according to a  U.S.
Geological Survey  study. The demand for underground disposal
wells has increased with the proliferation of shale-gas
drilling, a technique that produces millions of gallons of
wastewater a well.  Links between disposal wells and earthquakes in  Arkansas ,
Ohio and other states has raised public concern, according to
Scott Anderson, senior policy adviser for the Environmental
Defense Fund in Austin,  Texas . The U.S.  Environmental Protection
Agency , which sets standards for wells under the Safe Drinking
Water Act, said it is working with states to develop  guidelines 
to manage seismic risk.  “Basically, people need to be told not to locate their
disposal wells in active seismic areas,” Anderson said in an
interview. “But the total percentage of wells that would be
impacted by those restrictions almost certainly would be
small.”  U.S. Geological Survey  researchers  found that, for three
decades prior to 2000, seismic events in the nation’s midsection
averaged 21 a year. They jumped to 50 in 2009, 87 in 2010 and
134 in 2011, according to the study, which was presented April
18 at the annual meeting of the Seismological Society of
America.  Hydraulic Fracturing  The findings add to pressure on the industry over hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, a drilling technique in which millions
of gallons of chemically treated water are forced underground to
break up rock and free trapped gas. Most of the drilling fluid
returns to the surface where it is either recycled or disposed
of in underground wells.  This week, the EPA released the first regulations to combat
air pollution from gas wells.  “In terms of public pressure, it’s part of a mosaic that
is really challenging for the industry,” Benjamin Salisbury, a
senior energy policy analyst at FBR Capital Markets Corp. in
Arlington,  Virginia , said in an interview. “None of these
issues outweigh the massive societal benefits of hydraulic
fracturing.”  Fracking, which has opened vast new shale-gas deposits and
helped push gas prices to the lowest level in a decade, is
raising demand for disposal wells, according to Mark Boling,
president of  Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN) ’s V+ Development Division.  Arkansas Wells Shut  “The necessity for having more water disposal capacity
goes up in connection with hydraulic fracturing operations,”
Boling said in an interview. “You’re seeing some situations
that, just by chance, some wells are going into areas that were
not previously known to be geologically active.”  Last year, Arkansas regulators permanently shut four
disposal wells in the Fayetteville Shale after an outbreak of
earthquakes near the town of Guy, including one that measured
4.7 on the Richter scale. This year, the state Oil and Gas
Commission adopted rules requiring drillers to provide
information on the structural geology of well sites and to
position wells away from known faults, according to Lawrence
Bengal, commission director.  “The circumstances under which these events occurred show
there’s a very good relationship between these four disposal
wells and the seismic activity,” Bengal said in an interview.  Little Damage  None of what government researchers consider to be man-made
earthquakes has caused significant damage, William Ellsworth,
Earthquake Science Center staff director for the U.S. Geological
Survey, said on April 18 as he discussed a report on induced
seismicity at a conference in  San Diego . There is no evidence
that the fracking itself -- as opposed to wastewater disposal --
causes earthquakes, he said.  In a 1990 report with the USGS, the EPA found that
injection of fluid into deep wells triggered earthquakes in
 Colorado , Texas, New York,  New Mexico ,  Nebraska , and Ohio and
possibly in  Oklahoma ,  Louisiana , and  Mississippi . The EPA is
expected to issue guidance to help state regulators assess
earthquake risks, Anderson said.  State Jurisdiction  “The implementation of rules is ceded to the states, but
they ultimately have jurisdiction over protecting underground
sources of drinking water,” Anderson said.  Last year, the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission
began asking state geologist Vince Matthews to review permit
applications for new or expanded injection wells. The move came
after a 5.3 magnitude earthquake on Aug. 23, 2011, near Trinidad
in the gas-producing Raton Basin.  El Paso Corp. (EP) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Pioneer Natural
Resources Co. (PXD)  are the primary drillers in the basin, which
includes a coal-bed methane field that straddles the New Mexico-
Colorado border. The companies dispose of drilling wastewater in
underground wells in the basin.  Matthews looks for “caution flags,” such as nearby faults
and the geological history of an area, when reviewing injection-
well permits. Depending on what he finds, Matthews may recommend
a more detailed review of subsurface geology or seismic
monitoring prior to new drilling.  ‘No Manual’  “There’s no manual for this,” Matthews said in an
interview. “The suspects here are the disposal wells.”  Operators initially balked at the added review, fearing it
would slow permit applications, according to Denise Onyskiw,
underground injection control program supervisor for the
Colorado oil and gas commission. Now some include seismic
reviews in their applications.  “We want to see what earthquakes are caused by natural
events that are going to happen anyway and what may be caused by
injection,” Onyskiw said in an interview. “And, if it is
caused by injection, how can we fix that.”  The Colorado commission hasn’t tried to incorporate the
policy into a regulation. In  Ohio , the Department of Natural
Resources has proposed new rules for fluid transportation and
disposal it says would be “among the nation’s toughest.”  Ohio approved 29 new wells in 2011 compared to five to 10
in previous years, department spokesman Carlo LoParo said in an
e-mail. Last year, companies injected 511 million gallons into
Ohio’s wells, the most on record.  Ohio’s Proposed Rules  Ohio’s proposed rules would include limiting the depth of
drilling, additional review of available geological data before
permits are approved and requiring an automatic shutoff system
if injection pressures exceed state limits. The state also is
requiring electronic transponders for “cradle to grave”
monitoring of fluids brought to Ohio wells for injection.  The recommendations are a response to 12 earthquakes
centered within a mile (1.6 kilometers) of an injection well in
Youngstown, Ohio. A state report released March 9 concluded that
“a number of coincidental circumstances appear to make a
compelling argument for the recent Youngstown-area seismic
events to have been induced.”  “There’s, I believe, over 150,000 disposal wells in the
U.S.,” Boling said. “If you look at the number of wells that
have been identified with potentially triggering seismicity,
it’s less than two-one-thousandths of a percent. I don’t think
based on that you could say that industry or the regulators are
doing anything wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  