-- G-20 Finance Ministers and Central Bankers Statement (Text)
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-04-20T20:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/g-20-finance-ministers-and-central-bankers-statement-text-.html
Following is the full text of the
statement issued by the finance ministers and central bank
governors at the Group of 20 meeting in  Washington .  “1. We, the G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank
Governors, met to assess progress on the fulfillment of the
mandates given to us by our Leaders and to address ongoing
economic and financial challenges and promote robust growth and
job creation.  2. Recent economic developments point to the continuation
of a modest global recovery, supported by some significant
policy actions that have taken place since our last meeting. The
tail risks facing the global economy only months ago have
started to recede. However, growth expectations for 2012 remain
moderate, deleveraging is constraining consumption and
investment growth, volatility remains high partly reflecting
financial market pressures in  Europe  and downside risks still
persist. We remain committed to further reduce these risks. High
levels of public and private indebtedness, the need for
structural reforms, insufficient global rebalancing, and
persistent unemployment and development gaps continue to weigh
on medium-term global growth prospects. In the context of high
unemployment and indebtedness in many countries, supporting
growth and job creation, structural reforms, restoring medium-
term fiscal sustainability and promoting global rebalancing
remain at the core of our commitments. In addition, protecting
investment is crucial for the global recovery and, in accordance
to the mandate by our Leaders in Cannes, we reaffirm our
commitment to avoid protectionism. Vigilant of high  oil prices ,
G20 members stand ready to carry out additional actions as
needed and welcome the commitments by producing countries to
ensure adequate supply.  3. We have made progress in implementing the commitments
established in the Cannes Action Plan for growth and jobs, as
well as taken additional actions consistent with our shared
objectives for strong, sustainable and balanced growth. These
commitments remain fully relevant. Complete and timely
implementation is critical, though more needs to be done. We
agreed today on the main elements of the accountability
assessment that will be carried out in order to enhance
monitoring of the implementation of our commitments, as mandated
by our Leaders in Cannes. We have also agreed on the main
priority areas for further policy actions that should be
reflected in the Los Cabos Action Plan that will be announced by
our Leaders in June, including on fiscal, financial, structural,
monetary and exchange rate, trade and development policies. We
took note of a preliminary report by the international
organizations on how the G20 framework can contribute to  job
creation , with the final report being presented at the Los Cabos
Summit. These are important initiatives as increasing growth,
infrastructure financing, employment and social inclusion are at
the heart of all our actions.  4. We remain committed to take the necessary actions to
secure global financial stability. We welcome the euro area
members’ decisions in March to strengthen European firewalls as
part of broader reform efforts and the availability of central
bank swap lines. Together with the IMFC we have reached
agreement to enhance IMF resources for crisis prevention and
resolution. This is the result of a broad international
cooperative effort that includes a significant number of
countries. There are firm commitments to increase resources made
available to the IMF by over $430 billion in addition to the
quota increase under the 2010 Reform. These resources will be
available for the whole membership of the IMF, and not earmarked
for any particular region. The resources would be channeled
through temporary bilateral loans and note purchase agreements
to the IMF’s General Resources Account. Should it become
necessary to use these resources, adequate risk mitigation
features, conditionality and burden sharing among official
creditors would apply, as approved by the IMF Board. This
effort, together with the national and regional structural,
fiscal, and monetary actions that have been put in place in the
past months, shows the commitment of the international community
to safeguard global financial stability and put the global
economic recovery on a sounder footing.  5. We reaffirmed our commitment to fully implement the 2010
Governance and Quota Reform by the 2012 IMF/World Bank Annual
Meeting. We will continue to contribute towards a comprehensive
review of the IMF quota formula by January 2013 and the
completion of the next general review of quotas by January 2014,
fulfilling the commitments made in Seoul and Cannes. We reaffirm
that the distribution of quotas should better reflect the
relative weights of IMF members in the world economy which have
changed substantially in view of strong growth in dynamic
emerging markets and  developing countries .  6. We welcome recent initiatives on IMF surveillance, and
agree that the current surveillance framework should be
significantly enhanced. This process should help achieve a
better integration of bilateral and multilateral surveillance,
with a focus on global, domestic and financial stability,
including spillovers from countries policies. This could be
achieved through a careful use of Article IV consultations. We
welcome the progress by the IMF in advancing consideration of an
integrated surveillance decision and commit to support the
decision process. We underscore the importance of rigorous
surveillance on exchange rate policies and support a more ample
coverage of surveillance activities, where relevant, including
global liquidity, capital flows, capital account measures,
reserve and fiscal, monetary and financial sector policies that
could have an impact on external stability. We welcome the
ongoing work to produce an external sector report, which would
strengthen multilateral analysis and enhance the transparency of
surveillance. We also recognize that political ownership and
traction is critical to effective surveillance, and that the
IMFC has a role in facilitating the active involvement of all
IMF members. We call on the IMF to address issues that constrain
effective surveillance as identified by the IEO.  7. We assessed progress on the implementation of our
financial regulatory reform agenda as outlined in our February
2012 Communiqué in order to deliver on our commitments looking
ahead to the Los Cabos Leaders’ Summit, and reaffirmed our
commitment to common global standards by pursuing the financial
regulatory reform agenda according to our agreed timetable in an
internationally consistent and non-discriminatory manner. We
take note of the work to date by the FSB and BCBS on the
modalities for extending the SIFI framework to domestic
systemically important banks (D-SIBs), and look forward to the
completion of this work by November 2012 and welcome the FSB
progress report on strengthening the oversight and regulation of
the shadow banking system to mitigate potential systemic risk
and look forward to its final recommendations by end-2012. We
support the work of the Working Group on FSB Capacity, Resources
and Governance to put the FSB on an enduring organizational
footing while preserving the strong links with the BIS and look
forward to Leaders receiving the Group’s recommendations in June
2012; the work coordinated by the FSB to provide safeguards
supportive of a global framework for central counterparties
(CCPs) as an important element in achieving the agreed OTC
derivatives reforms, so that authorities can make informed
decisions on the standards and requirements of CCPs to meet by
end-2012 their commitment that all standardized OTC derivatives
be centrally cleared in CCPs with the appropriate safeguards;
and the efforts of the IASB and FASB to achieve convergence to a
globally accepted set of high quality accounting standards and
urge them to meet their target of issuing standards on key
convergence projects by mid-2013, at the latest, in order to
achieve a single set of high quality international accounting
standards. We look forward for the completion of the study,
coordinated by the FSB with the IMF and the World Bank, to
identify the extent to which the agreed regulatory reforms may
have unintended consequences for  Emerging Markets  and Developing
Economies. We support the work of the FSB on the global
governance framework for the legal entity identifier and look
forward to its recommendations in June on establishing a global
LEI system. We support work on developing for consultation,
internationally consistent standards on margining for non-
centrally cleared OTC derivatives by June 2012.  8. We reiterate our call upon all countries to join the
Global Forum on transparency and to sign on the Multilateral
Convention on Mutual Assistance. We look forward to an interim
report by the OECD for the Los Cabos Summit on progress made and
on a new set of reviews and on necessary steps to improve
comprehensive information exchange. We welcome the ongoing work
by the FSB on adherence to supervisory and regulatory
information exchange and cooperation standards. We support the
renewal of the FATF mandate, sustaining global efforts to combat
 money laundering  and the financing of terrorism and
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.  9. As an important complement of the G20 financial
regulation agenda, we agreed to follow through on the five
recommendations of the 2011 Global Partnership for Financial
Inclusion report, endorsed in Cannes, and take the financial
inclusion agenda forward towards concrete results and we agreed
to present to our Leaders at the Los Cabos Summit the G20 Basic
Set of Financial Inclusion Indicators, which will assist
countries, policymakers and stakeholders in focusing global
efforts on measuring and sustainably tracking progress on access
to financial services globally. We acknowledge the efforts of
those G20 and non-G20 countries willing to commit to national
coordination platforms and strategies for financial inclusion
under the ‘‘G20 Financial Inclusion Peer Learning Program” at
the Los Cabos Summit as well as the ongoing efforts and the
importance of coordinated support, policy advice and technical
assistance by GPFI implementing partners, other stakeholders,
including the UN, and bilateral donors and request their
continued support to national strategic planning, implementation
and data initiatives in support of financial inclusion. On
financial education we recognize the importance and relevance of
the work that the OECD, its International Network on Financial
Education (INFE), and the  World Bank  have been doing in this
topic and look forward for the OECD/INFE High Level Principles
on National Strategies for Financial Education to be presented
to our Leaders for their consideration at the Los Cabos Summit.
For advancing our financial consumer protection agenda we
recognize the importance of the International Financial Consumer
Protection Network (FinCoNet) as a global network of market
conduct financial authorities. We also ask the G20/OECD Task
Force on financial consumer protection to develop with the FSB
effective approaches to support the implementation of the High
Level Principles endorsed in Cannes, and recognize the
importance of an active participation in this process. We
recognize the need for women to gain access to financial
services and financial education, and call for the GPFI and
OECD/INFE to identify additional barriers women may face.  10. We welcome the participation of the International
Organizations on the assessment of the macroeconomic impacts of
excessive commodity price volatility on growth and their
identification of policy options that countries could consider
as per their national circumstances to mitigate any such
effects. We will report to Leaders in Los Cabos on these policy
options and their implications for our national agendas.  11. We reaffirm our commitments to enhance the transparency
and functioning of energy markets. We will work to improve the
JODI-Oil database and work on applying the same principles to
JODI-Gas, and to rationalize and phase out inefficient fossil
fuel subsidies over the medium term, while providing targeted
support for the poorest, and report on progress made to our
Leaders in Los Cabos. We look forward to the IOSCO progress
report on the implementation of its Principles for the
Regulation and Supervision of Commodities Derivatives Markets at
our next meeting in November. We welcome the consultation by
IOSCO on the functioning and oversight of price reporting
agencies and look forward to an update on their emerging
recommendations for leaders in Los Cabos.  12. We received the preliminary report prepared by the
OECD, the World Bank and UN on inserting green growth and
sustainable development policies into structural reform agendas
and look forward for the final version to be delivered to our
Leaders. We welcome G20 countries voluntary self-reporting on
current actions to integrate green growth and sustainable
development into structural reform agendas.  13. We will continue to work on climate finance with the
establishment of a G20 study group to consider ways to
effectively mobilize resources and support the
operationalization process of the Green Climate Fund taking into
account the objectives, provisions and principles of the UNFCCC.  14. We appreciate G20 countries contributions and
involvement in promoting Disaster Risk Management (DRM), and
welcome the efforts made so far by the World Bank and OECD, with
support from the UN to prepare a compilation of country
experiences to be presented to our Leaders in Los Cabos, and
towards having, by November, a voluntary framework aimed to
facilitate the assessment of risk and financial strategies
towards implementing DRM.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  