-- GE Beats Estimates as Energy Sales Buoy Industrial Unit
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-04-20T20:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/ge-beats-estimates-as-energy-sales-buoy-industrial-unit.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  climbed to the
highest in more than two weeks after first-quarter earnings
topped analysts’ estimates, propelled by profit gains at the
energy business, its largest industrial division.  Earnings from continuing operations rose less than 1
percent to $3.59 billion, or 34 cents a share, excluding some
costs, from $3.56 billion, or 33 cents, a year earlier, GE said
today in a statement. That exceeded the 33-cent average of 13
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is increasing GE’s
focus on divisions that make gas turbines,  jet engines  and
diesel locomotives while shrinking GE Capital’s balance sheet.
He has pledged to boost industrial earnings this year by 5
percent to 10 percent, excluding the effect of acquisitions,
while expanding profit margins.  “The industrial operations are beginning to take over and
shoulder more of the load,” Daniel Holland, a  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) 
analyst in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “It’s very
encouraging that the company was able to perform pretty well
even with essentially flat earnings out of GE Capital.”  GE gained 1.1 percent to $19.36 at the close of trading in
New York, the  fifth-largest increase  today among companies in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average . The Fairfield, Connecticut-
based company’s shares have  advanced  8.1 percent this year,
trailing a 9.6 percent gain by the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  Energy Earnings  Earnings at GE’s energy infrastructure unit climbed 10
percent to $1.52 billion, leading industrial profit of $3.27
billion. Orders at the unit grew 21 percent to $7.7 billion as
customers purchased 696  wind turbines  in the quarter, compared
with 327 in the same period a year earlier. Energy’s growth
outpaced that of  GE Capital  for the first time since the first
quarter of 2010.  The finance unit’s profit was little changed at $1.79
billion, with the real estate business contributing $56 million
in its first profitable quarter since the three months ending
Sept. 30, 2008. That period included a freeze in global credit
markets with the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  GE Capital will sell its Irish residential mortgage
business, leading to a $200 million charge against first-quarter
net income, according to the statement. Neither the buyer nor
terms of the transaction were disclosed.  GE Capital  “A lot of things are getting better around the world, but
the Irish mortgage portfolio was one place we didn’t see the
outlook improving,” Keith Sherin, GE’s chief financial officer,
said in a telephone interview. “We made a determination that
the buyer’s bid would be a better deal than to continue to work
on that portfolio and try to increase the value over time.”  The sale of the unit, which has $600 million in assets, may
be concluded by the end of this year, Sherin said. The business
is among the $180 billion of GE Capital assets the company
decided to shed after profit plunged during the financial
crisis.  GE’s backlog of industrial orders climbed to $201 billion
from $200 billion in the fourth quarter of last year. Organic
industrial revenue gained 11 percent, the company said.  “It’s very encouraging to see this kind of organic
industrial growth,” said  Nick Heymann , a New York-based analyst
at William Blair & Co. “There’s more evidence of things
starting to shift, whether it’s continued strong orders or
sales.”  Revenue dropped 8 percent to $35.2 billion, while still
beating analysts’ estimates of $34.7 billion.  Net Income  “Today’s results demonstrate that we are achieving
industrial growth,” Immelt said in the statement. “We
witnessed broad-based strength in orders across all our
infrastructure businesses and in both equipment and services.”  Including pension expenses and the effects of the NBC
Universal stake sale in the first quarter of 2011,  net income 
dropped 12 percent to $3.03 billion, or 29 cents, from $3.43
billion, or 31 cents.  While GE may pursue smaller acquisitions to supplement
businesses it’s already in, the company likely won’t pursue a
large takeover in 2012, Immelt said on a conference call with
analysts. The company is still digesting $11 billion in energy
acquisitions completed through 2011, he told investors in March.  “I just don’t want to do a big deal this year,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  