-- Spain Notes Extend Seventh Weekly Drop; G-20 Sees Stress
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-04-20T14:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/german-bunds-snap-2-day-gain-before-g-20-confidence-data.html
Spanish notes fell, extending the
longest run of weekly declines since January 2007, as the Group
of 20 nations said  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis poses a threat
to global growth.  Ten-year Spanish bonds also slipped, with the yield rising
above 6 percent for first time in four days. The G-20, whose
finance chiefs are meeting in  Washington , cited “the situation
in Europe” first among drags on the world economy, according to
a draft statement obtained by Bloomberg News. French 10-year
bond yields headed for their biggest weekly gain since January
before the first round of presidential elections on April 22.
German bunds declined.  “Underlying sentiment is still pretty nervous and people
are still pretty worried about the fiscal prospects in Spain,”
said  Nick Stamenkovic , a strategist in Edinburgh at RIA Capital
Markets Ltd., a broker for banks. “With French elections
starting, investors remain on the defensive toward risk markets.
That will continue near term.”  The yield on  Spain ’s two-year notes rose four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.52 percent at 3:51 p.m.  London 
time, pushing the increase this week to seven basis points. The
3.4 percent security maturing in April 2014 fell 0.075, or 75
euro cents per 1,000-euro ($1,321) face amount, to 99.765. The
securities are headed for a seventh-straight weekly decline.  The 10-year Spanish bond yield climbed four basis points to
5.96 percent after reaching 6.04 percent.  Sweden CDS  Volatility in Swedish securities was the highest among 24
developed markets, followed by German debt, according to
measures of 10-year bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and
credit-default swaps compiled by Bloomberg.  Sweden’s credit-default swaps rose one basis point to 56,
the highest since Feb. 17, Bloomberg data show. German and
Finnish swaps reached the highest since February and Norwegian
swaps reached the highest since March, the data show.  French 10-year yields fell two basis point to 3.08 percent,
paring the increase since April 13 to a 13 basis points, which
would be the most since the period through Jan. 6.  The extra yield that investors get for holding the bonds
instead of German bunds widened to as much as 149 basis points,
the most since January. It was last at 136 basis points, up 14
basis points since April 13. Citigroup Inc. said this week that
 France ’s credit rating may be reduced in the next two to three
years.  French Election  “There are still many uncertainties in the upcoming French
election, including the score of the extremist parties, and
these uncertainties are undoubtedly weighing on the Franco-
German spread,” Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard
Chartered Bank in London, wrote in an e-mail. “Beyond that,
there are concerns about much-needed structural reforms.”  German 10-year bonds declined, paring their weekly gain, as
a report showed business confidence beat forecasts, suggesting
the strength of Europe’s largest economy may have been
underestimated amid the region’s debt crisis.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said its business climate
 index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, rose for a sixth
straight month to 109.9 from 109.8 in March. Economists
predicted a drop to 109.5, according to the median of 40
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey .  The bund yield rose three basis points to 1.72 percent,
from 1.74 percent on April 13. The yield slipped to a record low
1.64 percent in September as the sovereign debt crisis spread to
 Italy  and Spain.  Non-Performing Loans  Italian and Spanish debt securities slipped this week as
Italy moved back its balanced-budget target and data showed bad
loans jumped in both countries, underlying the fragility of
their banking systems.  Non-performing loans as a proportion of total lending in
Italy rose to 6.3 percent in February, the highest level since
November 2000 and up from 3 percent in June 2008, figures
released by the Italian Banking Association on April 18 showed.
Spain’s bad loans surged to 8.16 percent, the nation’s central
bank said the same day.  “All eyes now are on countries like Spain” after the
crisis that started moved on from  Greece ,  Stephen King , chief
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc said in an interview with  Owen Thomas  on Bloomberg Television’s  “Countdown” program. “What
we don’t know yet is the extent to which austerity that’s coming
through this year may damage prospects” for growth, he said.  Portuguese 10-year bonds rallied for a fourth day, driving
yields down 38 basis points to 11.77 percent.  French  government bonds  have lost 1.2 percent this month
while Spain’s securities slumped 2.7 percent, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German bonds, perceived to be
Europe’s safest government debt securities, gained 1 percent,
the gauges showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  