-- German Business Confidence Unexpectedly Increased
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-04-20T11:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/german-business-confidence-unexpectedly-increased.html
German business and investor
confidence has beaten forecasts every month this year,
suggesting the strength of  Europe ’s largest economy may have
been underestimated.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , which today
unexpectedly rose to a nine-month high, has beaten the median
forecast in Bloomberg News surveys every month since September.
An investor confidence index published by the ZEW Center for
European Economic Research has exceeded the median estimate for
the last five months.  “German companies taught nervous financial markets another
important lesson today,” said  Andreas Rees , an economist at
UniCredit Group in Munich. “One should not underestimate the
German economy and its resilience.”  The Ifo report and today’s U.K. retail data showing the
fastest sales increase in more than a year add to evidence of 
strength in Europe after the debt crisis damped the region’s
growth in the fourth quarter. In  Germany , companies have
increased sales to faster-growing markets in  Asia , and
unemployment at a two-decade low is bolstering household
spending.  Germany’s leading economic institutes, including Ifo,
yesterday raised their joint growth forecast for 2012 to 0.9
percent from 0.8 percent and predicted expansion of 2 percent in
2013, even as the debt crisis cripples euro-area peers. The
Bundesbank in December forecast gross domestic product will
increase 0.6 percent growth this year and 1.8 percent in 2013.  Ifo Index  Munich-based Ifo said its  index , based on a survey of 7,000
executives, rose for a sixth straight month to 109.9 from 109.8
in March. Economists predicted a drop to 109.5, according to the
median of 40 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey .  “This level of the business climate is associated with
growth in the order of 3 percent -- a rate that the economy is
most unlikely to deliver anytime soon,” said  Klaus Baader ,
senior economist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong , who
forecasts 0.7 percent growth for Germany this year. “Still, the
survey suggests the contraction in fourth-quarter GDP, and what
is likely to be a pretty lackluster first quarter, are likely to
be temporary.”  Ifo said a gauge of executives’ expectations was unchanged
at 102.7, while a measure of the current situation rose to 117.5
from 117.4. Economists forecast both would fall. The euro jumped
more than a quarter of a cent to $1.3180 after the report and
the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.4 percent.  ‘Too Positive’  “Today’s Ifo index paints a too positive picture of the
growth prospects for the German economy,” said  Carsten Brzeski ,
senior economist at ING Group in Brussels. “With austerity-
driven slowdowns coming to most other core euro-zone countries,
an obvious cooling of the Chinese economy and a still not very
dynamic U.S. recovery, export growth should clearly come down.”  ZEW’s index of investor sentiment also bucked expectations
and rose to a two-year high this month. Improving confidence
hasn’t been reflected in official data so far. Germany’s
manufacturing sector contracted in March for the first time in
three months and retail sales have dropped each month this year.  “Hard data releases for retail sales and industrial output
in February came in on the weak side,” said Evelyn Herrmann, an
economist at BNP Paribas in  London , who nevertheless expects
German growth of 1.2 percent this year. The Ifo and ZEW surveys
“confirm that confidence in the capacity for the German economy
to weather the euro-zone crisis well remains unbroken,” she
said.  U.K. Retail  U.K. retail sales rose 1.8 percent last month from February
as the warmest March for half a century boosted purchases of
clothing and gardening products and panic buying lifted auto-
fuel demand, the Office for National Statistics said today.  In  Spain , where unemployment is approaching 24 percent as
the economy contracts, the government is implementing the
deepest austerity measures in three decades in an attempt to
rein in its  budget deficit .  Investors are yet to be convinced that Spain will deliver,
sending Spanish 10-year yields above 6 percent earlier this
week, approaching levels that drove  Greece , Ireland and Portugal
to seek bailouts.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest carmaker, yesterday
predicted a “very demanding” 2012 as the debt crisis threatens
economic stability. Still, Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said he’s “convinced” the company “can approach
the coming months with confidence.”  European car sales dropped 6.6 percent to a 14-year low
last month as deliveries in France and Italy tumbled by more
than 20 percent. VW, which plans new factories in  Mexico  and
western  China , bucked the trend with a 1.7 percent gain.  Tax Revenue  German corporate  tax revenue  grew 22 percent in March from
a year earlier as businesses benefited from stronger export
growth and consumer demand, the  Finance Ministry  said today.  Unemployment dropped to 6.7 percent in March and unions are
winning some of the biggest pay increases for workers in two
decades.  Today’s Ifo numbers “are dazzling,” said Jens Kramer, an
economist at NordLB in Hanover. “The German economy is standing
on robust feet. The recovery is extremely broad-based.”  Elsewhere today, Australian export and import prices fell,
and Malaysian inflation slowed.  Australia ’s export prices
dropped 7 percent in the first quarter from the previous period,
the biggest decline in more than a year. Import prices for the
same period also fell 1.2 percent, the statistics bureau
announced today.  Malaysia said the rise in consumer prices slowed in March
to 2.1 percent from a year earlier after a 2.2 percent in
February.  Canada will announce today that inflation slowed in March
to 2 percent from 2.6 percent, according to the median estimate
from a survey of 25 economists. Mexico may say that unemployment
for March fell to 4.7 percent, according to a survey by
Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  