-- Google’s $12 Billion Apple Defense Tested by Patent Cases
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-04-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/google-s-12-billion-apple-defense-tested-by-patent-cases.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chief Executive Officer
 Larry Page  last year said his $12.5 billion bid for Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. would help protect the Android operating
system from “anti-competitive threats from Microsoft, Apple and
other companies.”  Whether Page’s  bet  pays off could be tested Monday as
judges with the  U.S. International Trade Commission  are
scheduled to release findings in patent-infringement cases
Motorola Mobility brought against  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Motorola Mobility victories may give Google leverage to end
the global legal battles over market leadership in smartphones
and tablet computers. Apple has accused makers of phones that
run on Android of copying unique features of the iPhone, while
Microsoft contends it’s entitled to royalties from Android
phones because of its work on operating systems.  “It would be a positive sign for the acquisition if Google
or Motorola can win, or if anyone from the Android community can
win a major ruling,” said Alex Spektor, a New York-based
analyst with researcher  Strategy Analytics . “All of these
companies are scrambling to use whatever intellectual property
assets are at their disposal to put a nick in the armor of their
competition.”  The six-member commission, based in Washington, has the
power to block imports of products that violate any U.S. patent.
Motorola Mobility is seeking an import ban of Apple’s iPhone,
iPod Touch, iPad tablet, Apple TV and Mac computers, and of
Microsoft’s Xbox gaming system.  Smartphone Wars  Patent lawsuits over smartphone technology have been filed
over four continents, with the bulk of the international cases
involving Motorola Mobility focused in  Germany. (MMI)  Companies are
fighting for higher shares of a market that researcher Gartner
Inc. said grew 47 percent in the fourth quarter.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , had 29 percent of
the U.S. smartphone market in 2011, compared with less than 8
percent for Motorola Mobility, Spektor said. In operating
systems, the Android platform had 55 percent, Apple had 29
percent, and Microsoft’s Windows Phone had 3 percent, he said.  Android was introduced on handsets to further Google’s
advertising business and is provided free to device makers
including Motorola Mobility,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  HTC
Corp. (2498)  Apple’s operating system, which it developed, is available
only on Apple products.  While Google hasn’t been named in any of the handset or
tablet cases, it’s in the midst of a  trial  in  San Francisco  in
which  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  claims Google copied the Java programming
language to create Android.  Jobs’ Legacy  Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola Mobility, which
created the consumer market for mobile phones with the  DynaTAC
8000X  that cost $4,000 in 1983, has a portfolio of more than
17,000 patents. Stofega said there are other benefits to the
 Mountain View , California-based company owning a handset maker,
although Google concedes the patents were a driving issue.  “No matter how it comes out, Google can say ‘We’re a
serious contender; we’re not a paper tiger,’” said  David Long ,
a patent lawyer with Dow Lohnes in Washington who specializes in
telecommunications. Google “leapt into Android without the
intellectual property behind them. This is kind of a way for
them to flex their muscles.”  More than a dozen smartphone-related cases are pending at
the ITC. Apple filed the first cases against HTC Corp. after
company co-founder  Steve Jobs  said Android “ripped off the
iPhone,” according to his authorized biography.  Apple and Samsung have traded cases, with fights in more
than 30 countries. The companies on April 16 agreed to have
Apple Chief Executive  Tim Cook  and Samsung CEO Choi Gee Sung
meet in an effort to settle their dispute.  ‘Crazy Things’  Google made its deal for Motorola Mobility after being
criticized for not doing enough to protect Android-handset
manufacturers from the Apple and Microsoft suits.  “It was clear that the licensees needed Google’s help and
some patent cover,” said  Will Stofega , an analyst at researcher
IDC in Framingham,  Massachusetts . “I don’t know if this is the
first time a company went out and bought a company just to get a
list of patents. This is the future, so people are willing to do
crazy things.”  Apple lost its case against Motorola Mobility at the ITC,
while a judge found that Motorola Mobility had violated only one
of seven Microsoft patents. The commission is reviewing that
finding.  Motorola Mobility filed the ITC case against Apple in a
preemptive strike, and against Microsoft after it was first sued
over Android phones and its licensing practices.  While the cases are part of the total battle for
smartphones, the Microsoft dispute focuses on the Xbox.  Microsoft, Apple  Motorola Mobility contends Microsoft is infringing two
patents that cover aspects of an industry standard for video
decoding, two for Wi-Fi technology and a fifth over a way to
establish communication between the Xbox and its accessories.
Microsoft has accused Motorola Mobility of violating its
commitment to license the standard-essential patents on
“reasonable and non-discriminatory” terms.  In the Apple case, two of the four patents relate to Wi-Fi.
The other two are for a way the server tracks which applications
are available, and a sensor to determine the proximity of a
person’s head to the phone so it doesn’t accidentally hang up or
dial unwanted numbers. The cases were heard by different judges
at the agency.  No matter how the ITC administrative law judges decide, the
cases probably will proceed to the full commission, which is
scheduled to make final decisions on Aug. 23.  “I don’t think any of them have patents that are going to
be a knockout blow,” said Tom Scott, a patent lawyer with
Goodwin Procter in  Washington , whose firm works with startups in
Silicon Valley. “In these kinds of battles, the idea that
you’re going to do a knockout punch is illusory. It’s a mature
field, and the patents are more to improvements than to basic
structure.”  The case against Apple is In the Matter of Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
Devices, Computers and Components Thereof, 337-745, and the case
against Microsoft is In the Matter of Gaming and Entertainment
Consoles, 337-752, both U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  