-- Google’s YouTube Must Help Detect Illegal Uploads, Court Says
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-04-20T13:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/google-s-youtube-must-help-detect-illegal-uploads-court-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s biggest
Internet search engine company, partly lost a German copyright
infringement suit over how much it must do to remove illegal
music videos from its YouTube website.  A Hamburg court partly ruled in favor of a suit brought by
German music royalty collecting society GEMA that argued Google
doesn’t do enough to monitor YouTube content. Google must
implement features to detect future violations if a rights
holder alerts the company, Presiding Judge Heiner Steeneck said
in a ruling that gave both sides reason to declare victory.  “But YouTube isn’t the perpetrator here, it’s those people
who illegally upload songs,” Steeneck said. “That’s why
YouTube doesn’t have to search all videos uploaded in the past.
It only has to help detect videos from the moment it is alerted
about possible violations.”  The suit was filed in 2010 after talks between GEMA and
Google on license fees for songs played on YouTube faltered.
GEMA collects royalties for composers and songwriters. An
earlier agreement between the two sides expired in 2009. Google
has reached licensing agreements with about 40 collecting
societies from other nations.  While Google maintained that that it provides enough
mechanisms for rights holders to detect violations, GEMA sought
a ruling expanding YouTube’s obligations to any illegal upload
in the past. The court ruled that YouTube’s must add a word
search to help detect videos. The current “ContentID”
application, whcih allows searches for audio content, isn’t
enough, according to the judges.  “This is a good ruling for us as YouTube must react once
it is alerted,” said Kerstin Baecker, GEMA’s lawyer. “So far
they have said they don’t have to do anything.”  Google spokesman Kay Oberbeck said the ruling provides
legal certainty and is important “for artists, musicians and
fans.”  Both sides said they will decide whether to appeal the part
of the ruling they lost after studying the written judgment.  Today’s case is LG Hamburg, 310 O 461/10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Hamburg via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 