-- Government One-Shots Raising Taxpayers’ Debt Costs: Muni Credit
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-04-20T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/government-one-shots-raising-taxpayers-debt-costs-muni-credit.html
Nassau County,  New York , is
planning to auction its sewer system. Yonkers, the state’s
fourth-biggest city, spent $131 million from its reserves and
refinanced its library. The next time those municipalities need
that revenue to balance their budgets, it won’t be there.  U.S. local governments have increasingly relied on so-
called one-shots to close budget gaps rather than fixing the
chronic imbalances that cause them,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a
report last month. The moves are hurting taxpayers and
investors. Nassau, whose finances were taken over by a state
board in 2011, has seen the penalty it pays over top-rated
securities rise by more than 50 percent.  “One-shots are a dirty word in this business and people in
the market take a dim view,” said Chris Mauro, head of U.S.
municipal strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York. “People
want solid, recurring revenue streams.”  Since 2007, states have relied on $45.3 billion in one-time
budget fixes, including federal aid and deferred payments,
according to the Washington-based Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities. Local governments have taken similar steps as the
18-month recession that ended in 2009 cut tax revenue and
boosted deficits.  Over a five-year period, former  Chicago  Mayor  Richard M. Daley  leased thousands of parking meters, a toll highway and
city-owned garages to raise $3.45 billion. Since leasing the
meters in December 2008, Chicago has seen its relative borrowing
costs balloon 12 times over.  Nothing Left  Daley spent most of the revenue raised by the sale of the
city’s assets before leaving office in May, handing incoming
Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  a more than $600 million budget gap and
little wriggle room. Like other municipalities, Chicago may be
running out of one-shots, said Matt Dalton, who manages about $1
billion of munis at Belle Haven Investments Inc. in  White
Plains , New York.  “I don’t know what else they have left to sell,” Dalton
said in a telephone interview. “You’ve got to pay attention to
one-time spending items because they’re going to change things
farther down the ledger. Chicago no longer has revenues from
parking.”  One month after Chicago leased the meters, the city sold
tax-exempt general-obligation bonds with a 20-year segment
priced to yield 4.89 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That was seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, more than top-rated debt with similar maturities,
according to a Bloomberg Fair Value  index.   In its most recent issue in November, Chicago sold 20-year
debt at 4.75 percent, or 86 basis points over the index.  ‘Not the Way’  Nassau County, a Long Island suburb of  New York City , isn’t
done looking for one-time fixes. It’s planning to auction
operation of its sewer system to private investors for about $1
billion, which would be the biggest one-shot ever for a New York
municipality other than New York City, said George Marlin, a
director of the state board overseeing the county’s finances.  “This is not the way to balance budgets or fix deficits,”
Marlin said in a telephone interview.  A public-private partnership for the sewer system would
help bridge long-term budget gaps and give the county time to
bring revenue and expenses into balance, according to County
Executive Edward Mangano. The transaction would also allow
Nassau to retire $500 million in debt.  Operating Improvements  “Every option must be considered in order to improve
Nassau’s sewage-treatment plants,” Mangano said in a statement
e-mailed yesterday. “Private operators have proposed to
implement bulk purchasing, cut energy costs, shut down obsolete
equipment and make other operating improvements.”  Moody’s Investors Services assigned Nassau a negative
outlook on its $1.4 billion of outstanding debt and $210.9
million in general-improvement bonds the county plans to sell
later this month, the rating company’s April 17 report said. The
action shows Nassau faces a possible downgrade of its A1
ranking, the fifth highest.  “The continued use of one-time revenue to support
operations” led to the outlook change, Moody’s said.  Nassau’s borrowing costs relative to top-rated debt rose
last year after Mangano’s proposal in September. The county
issued general-obligation tax-anticipation notes in December,
with a $145 million portion maturing in nine months yielding 1.1
percent, Bloomberg data show. That was 89 basis points more than
top-rated debt maturing in a year, according to a Bloomberg Fair
Value  index.   In May 2011, the county sold general-obligation notes with a
similar maturity that yielded 0.83 percent, or 58 basis points
above the index, Bloomberg data show.  Yonkers Move  In Yonkers, Mayor Mike Spano released a fiscal 2013 budget
plan April 16 that he says puts an end to the one-time budget
gimmicks that totaled more than $500 million since 2004. During
that period Yonkers spent $131.3 million of its fund balance and
raised $20 million by refinancing its library, a report released
by the city April 5 said.  Moody’s cut the city’s rating two levels to Baa1, the
third-lowest investment grade, from A2 in October.  In New York’s Suffolk County, where hedge fund billionaires
 John Paulson  and  George Soros  have homes in the Hamptons beach
towns, officials have used $424 million in one-shots since 2008,
including property sales, delayed pension contributions and
bonds backed by payments from  tobacco companies  as part of a
1998 settlement.  Suffolk Executive Steve Bellone declared a fiscal state of
emergency March 6 after a  task force  he appointed reported that
deficits through 2013 were projected at $530 million. One week
later, Moody’s cut the county’s ratings two levels to A1.  “Moody’s emphasizes that for years, Suffolk County has
been running an operating deficit which has been papered over
through one-shot revenues,” Bellone said in a statement after
the downgrade. “Those days must come to an end.”  Following are descriptions of coming sales:  CENTRAL PLAINS ENERGY PROJECT will sell about $609 million
in tax-exempt revenue bonds as soon as next week, according to
an offering document. The proceeds will be used to purchase a
30-year supply of natural gas from J. Aron & Co. A group of
utilities and municipalities in  Nebraska ,  Iowa  and  South Dakota 
will take delivery of the fuel. Moody’s Investors Service
assigned the debt a rating of A1, its fifth-highest grade.
Goldman Sachs & Co., which owns J. Aron, and RBC Capital
Markets, are the managers on the deal. (Added April 19)  NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY plans to sell
about $413 million of tax-exempt bonds and $22 million in
taxable debt via competitive sale as soon as next week,
according to an offering document. The proceeds will be used to
fund or refinance the cost of school facilities projects. S&P
rates the bonds A+, its fifth-highest grade. (Updated April 19)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany , New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  