-- Great Wolf Shares Jump After Apollo Raises Bid, Topping KSL
-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-04-21T01:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/great-wolf-shares-jump-after-apollo-raises-bid-topping-ksl-1-.html
Great Wolf Resorts Inc. (WOLF) ’s shares
jumped after  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  raised its bid for the
water-park operator a second time this week, topping an offer
from private equity firm KSL Capital Partners LLC.  Late today, KSL informed Great Wolf that it wouldn’t submit
any further bids, Great Wolf said.  The stock climbed 8.6 percent to $8.06 at the close of
trading in  New York . The board is backing Apollo’s new offer of
$7.85 a share, the Madison, Wisconsin-based company said in a
statement earlier today. The offer is about $740 million,
including debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  This is at least the third time New York-based Apollo has
sweetened its bid for Great Wolf, which operates 11 resorts in
 North America , after KSL started a bidding war. Shareholders
sued Great Wolf following Apollo’s initial proposal on March 13
of $5 a share, claiming Great Wolf didn’t obtain the highest
possible offer.  KSL offered $7.25 a share yesterday, in its third public
attempt to buy Great Wolf. The Denver-based private equity firm
first challenged Apollo for the resort operator earlier this
month. Great Wolf traded at $4.19 on March 12, the day before
the board approved Apollo’s original offer.  Apollo and Great Wolf also agreed to increase the breakup
fee to as much as $10.5 million for the deal. Great Wolf is
getting financial advice from Deutsche Bank AG and legal counsel
from Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP and Young Conaway
Stargatt & Taylor LLP.  Apollo is being advised by  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  and Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP.  A spokeswoman for KSL didn’t return a call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  