-- Greek Banks Post $37 Billion Losses on Debt Restructuring
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n ,   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-04-20T18:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/greek-banks-post-37-billion-losses-on-debt-restructuring.html
Greece ’s four biggest banks
reported a combined loss of 27.9 billion euros ($36.9 billion)
for last year after participating in the country’s debt
exchange, the largest sovereign restructuring in history.  The four, including  National Bank of Greece ,  EFG Eurobank
Ergasias SA (EUROB) , Alpha Bank SA and Piraeus Bank SA, said they wrote
down about 25 billion euros in the combined value of their Greek
government bond holdings.  Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  is trying to finalize a plan
to recapitalize Greek banks, which wrote down more than half the
face value of their  government bonds  and posted an increase in
bad loan ratios after five years of recession. Greece’s bank-
recapitalization body yesterday got 25 billion euros in a first
tranche of funds, or half the total assigned for the purpose, as
part of a second bailout by the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund .  “Recapitalization is a necessary prerequisite to securely
finance the real economy and in particular small- and medium-
sized enterprises,” Papademos said at a conference today. “It
is also a necessary precondition for reinforcing trust in our
bank system.”  Losses  National Bank, the nation’s biggest lender, had a net loss
of 12.3 billion euros for 2011 after a 406 million-euro profit a
year earlier, the Athens-based lender said in a statement today.
The average estimate from three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a loss of 9.29 billion euros.  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA, the second-biggest lender, had a
5.51 billion-euro loss after a 68 million-euro profit in 2010
and Alpha Bank SA, the third biggest, lost 3.81 billion euros
after an 86 million-euro profit in 2010.  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR) , the
fourth largest, had a 6.3 billion-euro loss.  National Bank took 10.8 billion euros of post-tax
impairments on Greek government bond holdings after writing down
their value by 75 percent. Eurobank wrote down 4.6 billion euros
of government bonds after taxes and Alpha Bank 3.8 billion
euros. Piraeus wrote down 5.1 billion euros.  The IMF, EU and  European Central Bank , the so-called troika
of agencies overseeing the Greek financing, plan to help
capitalize banks with incentives for private investors. The goal
is to bring core tier 1 capital to 9 percent of assets by the
end of September.  “The whole plan for the future is really not clear because
the conditions for the recapitalization are not clear,” Alpha
Bank General Manager Artemis Theodoridis said in a telephone
interview. “What we found out in the last few days is that they
will not be clear, at least the legal framework, before the
elections,” he said. The country is due to hold  general
elections May 6.  Buyback Offer  Alpha Bank SA offered to buy back a nominal 1.58 billion
euros of outstanding securities in a bid to boost its capital.
If completed, the offer would generate a gain for the group’s
Core Tier 1 capital, which the bank reported at 3 percent for
2011.  National Bank (ETE) , Eurobank and Piraeus Bank did not disclose
what their Core Tier 1 ratios would be without support from the
Hellenic Financial Stability Fund, the state recapitalization
body. National Bank reported a Core Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.3
percent after an injection of 6.9 billion euros from the HFSF.  Agricultural Bank of Greece  SA and  TT Hellenic Postbank SA (TT) ,
two state-controlled lenders, were granted extensions and will
report earnings by May 31, the banks said in exchange filings.  The bank recapitalization plan includes incentives for
private investment such as rights for shareholders to purchase
the government’s stake and safeguards for buyers of convertible
bonds, according an IMF report released March 16. The HFSF will
continue to hold  voting rights  in the event of strategic
decisions related to the banks to avert the risk of asset
stripping by investment funds, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  