-- Green Giraffe Sees Funds Available for EU Offshore Wind Plans
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-04-20T15:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/green-giraffe-sees-funds-available-for-eu-offshore-wind-plans.html
Developers of offshore wind power
stations in  Europe  will be able to find the “tens of billions
of euros” they need to build the capacity planned even though
banks are lending less, said Green Giraffe Energy Bankers.  “Available funds are growing alongside the industry,”
Jerome Guillet, managing director of the Paris-based company
that advises on wind projects, said by e-mail.  “They will come
from the traditional investors in the sectors such as utilities
and from third parties” ranging from infrastructure to pension
funds, he said.  Investors including Japanese trading house  Marubeni Corp. (8002) 
and pension funds including PensionDanmark A/S are channeling
money into European wind projects to tap long-term returns.
Britain and Germany are leading construction of 35.5 gigawatts
of offshore wind plants by 2020, requiring about 127 billion
euros ($166 billion) of investment, according to Bloomberg  New
Energy (NENE)  Finance. The facilities will provide 3.2 percent of the
European Union’s electricity demand.  “Funding, whether debt finance, equity or other hybrid
forms, is there for good projects and will continue to be as the
industry grows,” he said. This is despite a “general
perception” of financing shortages caused by the European debt
crisis, he said. Third-party funding has actually outpaced
industry growth in the past two years, he said.  EDF and Dong  Spending on wind and solar parks and other renewable
projects fell 28 percent to $27 billion in the first quarter
from the last three months of 2011, according to New Energy
Finance.  Guillet’s Green Giraffe Energy Bankers is working on
offshore wind projects in six countries including  France , where
it advised  Electricite de France SA  and Dong Energy A/S on their
winning bid in the nation’s wind tender. The company also
advised  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest private-equity
firm, on a 1.2 billion-euro ($1.6 billion) park in the German
 North Sea  last year.  More than 30 banks already provided loans for offshore
wind, with more than 20 taking construction risk, Guillet said.
Lenders prefer projects in Germamy and the U.K. to those in
 Spain  and Greece, which combine less predictable regulatory
frameworks and sovereign risk, he said. Spain in January halted
subsidies to new renewable plants.  Utilities including Dong,  Centrica Plc (CNA)  and EON AG built
offshore wind farms and plan more as  Germany  replaces phased-out
nuclear power. Britain is targeting 18 gigawatts of turbines at
sea by 2020.  “We are coming to a point where several of the large
utilities have the ability to point to large operational wind
farms, a big difference from just two or three years ago,”
Guillet said.  Utilities that have sold stakes in projects to help raise
funds may increasingly rely on non-recourse  project financing ,
where banks can recoup their investments from the project’s cash
flow though not the developers, Guillet said.  “Within a few more years, the industry will have a large
fleet of projects operating and will have the kind of track
record that will help a larger universe of banks and
infrastructure investors join the fray,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  