-- Guar at Record May Fail to Boost U.S. Output, Help Halliburton
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-04-20T03:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/guar-at-record-may-fail-to-boost-u-s-output-help-halliburton.html
Record-high prices for guar, a
little-known legume used increasingly to help extract crude oil,
may fail to boost U.S. production enough to cut imports or
reduce costs for drillers including  Halliburton (HAL)  Co.  While planting may triple to 50,000 acres this year from
15,000 in 2011, mostly in Texas and  Oklahoma , U.S. supply will
be dwarfed by the 8.6 million acres that will be sown in India,
the world’s largest producer, said Calvin Trostle, an agronomist
at  Texas A&M University . Few U.S. farmers know how to grow  guar ,
which means “cow food” in Hindi, and there is no crop
insurance like there is for corn or cotton, he said.  “For guar, there’s no government support, there’s no
insurance program, there’s no security from the banking
industry,” said Klint Forbes, who co-owns West Texas Guar Inc.,
the largest U.S. processor. “The banks want to grow something
where there’s no risk. You bring in guar, and there’s a learning
curve, and there are handling issues. So, it doesn’t matter what
we offer farmers. They can’t afford to plant it because of the
risk.”  Until recently, guar was used to increase the viscosity of
liquids in foods including ice cream and fruit drinks as well as
consumer products such as shampoo and hand lotion. Prices rose
to a record 35 cents a pound this year from 30 cents in 2011 and
12.5 cents in 2005, as demand surged from energy producers that
expanded the practice of fracking to tap oil and natural-gas
reserves,  Texas A&M ’s Trostle said.  Fracking Gel  Guar is made into a thickening gel used to carry sand down
a well and into the cracks created from hydraulic fracturing.
Sand, which is used to keep fractures propped open so oil and
gas can flow out, travels further into the crack with guar than
with thinner fluids.  Halliburton, the world’s largest provider of fracking
services, cited rising guar costs as a reason that the Houston-
based company is seeking higher fees from energy producers. In
some cases, the guar-gel system can represent more than 30
percent of the total price to frack a well, Chief Executive
Officer Dave Lesar told analysts on an April 18 conference call.  “We, like the rest of the industry, are looking for
alternatives to guar,” Lesar said. “We are having some
customers accept either lower-grade guar or alternatives to guar
that, while maybe not getting the well response they want, at
least they are getting something at a cheaper price.”  The cost to drill and complete a well climbed 6 percent in
2010, a further 25 percent last year and had been projected to
grow 20 percent this year, according to a January presentation
from Tulsa, Oklahoma-based industry consultant Spears &
Associates.  India, Pakistan  Many large  oil companies  won’t invest in guar production
because they know that farmers in India and  Pakistan  control
most of the world’s supply, said West Texas Guar’s Forbes, whose
Brownfield, Texas-based company buys the guar from growers,
processes it and sells the end-product to users.  U.S. farmers have little incentive to switch to guar,
especially without crop insurance, which discourages banks from
lending money for seed or equipment because of the risk of crop
losses from flood or drought, according to Forbes, who co-owns
West Texas Guar with Wade Cowan.  “In West Texas, where they’re growing cotton, they have
the experience and the know-how and the harvest equipment for
cotton,” Texas A&M’s Trostle said. “If you switch over to
guar, you don’t have any meaningful crop insurance, and you only
have three herbicides you can use, so it’s not easy.”  India  probably will boost the area seeded by 20 percent
this year to 3.5 million hectares (8.6 million acres), said
Rajesh Kedia, the director at Jai Bharat Gum & Chemicals Ltd.,
India’s second-biggest exporter of guar gum.  “We’re headed for the fall” in prices, West Texas Guar’s
Forbes said. “What you’ll see is India and Pakistan increasing
production. As soon as they do, you’ll go back to not hearing
about guar. That’ll last seven to nine years. Then, we’ll be
right back here again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  