-- Iceland Rolls Out Red Lava for Wen in China Power Talks
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-04-20T18:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/iceland-rolls-out-red-lava-for-wen-in-china-volcano-power-talks.html
Iceland  will show off its volcanic
power in a bid to increase trade with the fastest growing major
economy as Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  visits the island.  Wen, whose two-day visit starts today, will tour
Hellisheidi, Iceland’s largest geothermal power plant, and meet
with President Olafur R. Grimsson and Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir. It’s the first visit by a Chinese premier since
diplomatic relations were established 41 years ago, according to
the Foreign Ministry in Beijing.  For Iceland, the visit will be a chance to deepen ties with
China and speed up efforts to emerge from its 2008 economic
collapse when its three-largest banks defaulted. After its
failed foray into high-finance, the north Atlantic island is
seeking to revive its $13 billion economy by returning to the
industries it once relied on for growth such as tourism, fishing
and energy.  “Iceland and the city of Reykjavik, especially, have a
story to tell of the country’s energy conversion from fossil
fuels,” Bjarni Bjarnason, chief executive officer of Reykjavik
Energy, Iceland’s largest utility, said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. “In a cold country we don’t have to rely on oil,
coal or gas to keep us warm.”  The volcanic island gets about 25 percent of its power from
geothermal sources and the rest from hydropower. Iceland last
year started a feasibility study into building a 1,170-kilometer
(727-mile) power cable to  Scotland  to send some of its untapped
potential of geothermal and hydropower power to  Europe .  Great Geysir  After visiting the Great Geysir, whose eruptions can hurl
boiling water as far as 230 feet into the air, Wen will get to
peer inside one of Iceland’s inactive volcanoes from its crater,
according to his schedule.  “China and Iceland have enjoyed a good cooperation in the
field of geothermal utilization and that cooperation has created
great opportunities for Icelandic consultancies and companies,”
Sigurdardottir said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “The
possibilities for increased utilization of the geothermal
resources in China are vast and can lead to a more
environmentally friendly and more sustainable energy use.”  China  is already applying some of Iceland’s geothermal
knowhow at home, according to Ingvar B. Fridleifsson, director
of the United Nations University Geothermal Program in
Reykjavik.  ‘Huge Growth’  “Until recently a lot of heating was generated with coals,
but now the Chinese are building heating utilities similar to
the ones that have been built up in Iceland over the past
decades,” Fridleifsson said. “There’s a huge growth in the
utilization of hot water for heating and even cooling over the
warmest months.”  The university, a post graduate training program hosted by
Iceland’s National Energy Authority, has had 78 Chinese
graduates, according to Fridleifsson.  Iceland has geothermal advisers at work in the U.S., China,
 Southeast Asia ,  Africa  and  Latin America , according to its
National Energy Agency. Grimsson has helped secure energy deals
with China,  India  and  Russia  after touring the world to promote
the island’s geothermal potential.  “The two sides enjoy great potential of cooperation in
business, geothermal and Arctic and hold a high level of
consensus on further deepening cooperation,” Chinese Vice
Foreign Minister Song Tao said in an April 16 statement on Wen’s
visit. The countries will share views on trade, geothermal
cooperation and Chinese business investment in Iceland,
according to the ministry.  Joint Agreements  The two countries signed agreements and declarations on
areas covering Arctic cooperation, marine science and geothermal
cooperation, according to a press statement released by the
Prime Minister’s Office. A joint declaration was also signed
between Iceland and China National Bluestar Co. Ltd. relating to
a solar and silicon project in Iceland, it said.  Iceland’s government last year blocked Chinese billionaire
Huang Nubo from buying land to build a golf resort. Nine
municipalities in northeast Iceland have since expressed an
interest in getting Huang to help finance their purchase of the
same land, which they then plan to lease back to him, according
to Bergur Elias Agustsson, the mayor of Nordurthing.  Iceland’s economy will expand 2.4 percent this year and 2.6
percent next year as it emerges from its financial crisis, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in a report released this
month.  “Imbalances are unwinding, but all sectors of the economy
remain highly leveraged,” the IMF said in an Article IV staff
report and post-program monitoring dated March 23. Iceland
completed a 33-month IMF program in August after its 2008
meltdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 Jbergman@bloomberg.net  