-- Microsoft Should Sell Bing Unit, Analyst Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-04-20T17:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/microsoft-should-sell-bing-unit-analyst-says-tom-keene.html
Microsoft Inc. (MSFT)  should sell its Bing
search business to  Facebook Inc. (FB) , a deal worth about $5 billion
that would help both companies compete with  Google (GOOG)  Inc., said
 Rick Sherlund , an analyst at Nomura Equity Research.  “If their real motivation for being in the search business
is to prevent Google from having complete market dominance,
Microsoft would be better off working with Facebook,” Sherlund
said today in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.  Sherlund said Microsoft, the world’s largest software
maker, has “clearly lost” the battle for search market share
to Google and could boost earnings by 6 to 8 percent by
eliminating the “drag” of Bing, he said.  Facebook  would also
benefit from a partnership, Sherlund said.  “Facebook needs to be in the search business,” Sherlund
said. “It’s an enormous monetization opportunity for them.”  Microsoft already owns almost 2 percent of Facebook, making
a future agreement more likely, he said. The company would
probably get back about 80 percent of monetized search traffic
from Facebook with none of the associated costs, according to
Sherlund.  He estimated a $5 billion purchase price for the Bing unit,
or two times  2011 annual sales  of $2.5 billion for Microsoft’s
online services division. Sherlund projected that Microsoft will
lose $2 billion from Bing this year, amounting to about a six
percentage-point impact on its operating margins.  “Instead of being a depressant on margins it would be all
profit to them,” Sherlund said. “They’re better off if their
objective is to introduce more competition to Google, if they
can leverage the Facebook relationship.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  