-- Quinn Presses Illinois to Join States Reining In Pension Costs
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s ,   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-04-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/illinois-governor-quinn-proposes-pension-contribution-increase.html
Illinois Governor  Pat Quinn ’s
proposal that public employees pay more for pensions is the
latest in a series of efforts by dozens of states to control
escalating retirement burdens.  “Bold action” is required to save the state’s underfunded
plans, the Democratic governor told reporters in Chicago
yesterday, saying “unsustainable pension costs are squeezing
core programs.” In fiscal 2010, Illinois had the worst-funded
state pension in the U.S., with assets equal to 45.4 percent of
projected obligations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Quinn is among governors nationwide proposing changes to
pension programs -- 41 states have reduced benefits, increased
contributions or both, according to the National Association of
State Budget Officers.  New York ’s Legislature approved pension changes backed by
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  on March 15. California Governor  Jerry Brown  has proposed a hybrid pension, combining elements of a
401(k) savings plan with traditional government benefits.  “States know that their liability numbers will look
worse,” said  Scott Pattison , executive director of the budget
officers group. “A lot of states are going to continue to find
ways to increase employee contributions.”  On the Precipice  Nor are governors the only elected officials moving on the
issue: In  Los Angeles  yesterday, Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa 
proposed rolling back pension benefits for new civilian
employees to help balance a $7.2 billion general-fund budget.  Quinn’s plan involves a 3 percent increase in employee
contributions and reduced cost-of-living allowances, which he
says can survive constitutional challenges by making the
provisions voluntary. Those who agree to those terms would still
receive state-subsidized retiree health-care coverage. The plan
would also raise the  retirement age  to 67, from 65.  Quinn, who said his plan would provide 100 percent funding
for the system by 2042, has additional incentive to act.
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a report yesterday that it might cut
the state’s general-obligation rating by multiple levels “if
there is no progress on structural budget solutions and if
 Illinois  does not address the significant pension liabilities.”  The  retirement plan  plays a large part in the fiscal
distress in Illinois, which has a rating of A+, fifth-highest,
and a negative outlook, the report said. The state is rated the
lowest among the states by Moody’s Investors Service, at A2.  “We are risking not only one downgrade but perhaps more
than one downgrade,” Quinn said. “This is not what we want to
do, now or ever.”  Hurt Feelings  The Quinn plan will add to an evolving pension conversation
in Springfield, the state capital.  The proposal is “insensitive and irresponsible,” the
labor coalition We Are One Illinois said in a statement.  “It is a clearly illegal attempt to solve the problem
caused by past governors and the Legislature solely on the backs
of teachers, caregivers and other public workers,” said the
group, which says it represents more than 1 million union
members including state employees, teachers, police officers and
firefighters, and transportation workers.  Legislative leaders offered a qualified embrace. House
Minority Leader Tom Cross, a Republican, said there are “some
good components here.” Senate President John Cullerton, a
Democrat, said he is pleased the governor offered a plan “that
will allow the state to control pension costs in a
constitutional way.”  In addition to increased contributions, Quinn’s plan would:  -- Reduce cost-of-living raises to 3 percent or half of the
 Consumer Price Index , whichever is lower.  -- Delay those increases until age 67 or five years after
retirement.  -- Phase in a retirement age of 67.  Pattison said a pending rule change by the Governmental
Accounting Standards Board is expected to magnify the gaps
between assets and obligations to retirees among many pension
funds, further pressuring states and cities.  “Now, we have to act,” Quinn said. “I did not create the
problem, but I’m going to solve it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy Jones in  Chicago  at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  