-- Europe Urged to Quell Crisis as IMF Wins $430 Bln Boost
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-04-21T14:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/imf-said-to-be-winning-more-than-400-billion-in-fresh-funding.html
European policy makers were urged 
to be tougher and more agile in their efforts to end two years 
of debt turmoil as the  International Monetary Fund  won more 
than $430 billion to safeguard the world economy.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde ’s push for a
doubling in lending power paid off despite complaints from
emerging markets wanting more say in how the fund is run and
calls from some richer nations for aid to be more tightly
controlled.  That left finance chiefs from the  Group of 20  stressing
that Europe must now justify the show of solidarity by doing
even more to restore fiscal health, help banks and spur economic
growth. Failure to do so could make it harder for countries such
as Spain to secure aid if they falter and imperil a global
recovery the G-20 labeled modest and subject to downside risks.  Europe’s leaders and central bankers must deploy their
“tools and processes creatively, flexibly and aggressively to
support countries as they implement reforms and stay ahead of
the markets,” U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said
today in Washington at the IMF’s spring meeting.  Although Geithner made no specific proposals, the IMF this
week advised the  European Central Bank  to cut  interest rates  and
inject capital directly into banks. Brazil yesterday pressed 
Germany, Europe’s linchpin economy, to spend more and the U.K. 
today backed a proposal for euro-area governments to issue joint 
debt.  More Work  “The firewall is a necessary, but far from sufficient
condition to resolving this crisis,” said  Tharman
Shanmugaratnam , the finance minister of  Singapore  who chairs the
IMF’s policy panel. “The real solution has to do with the
fiscal and structural reforms that address the real causes of
this crisis.”  European officials chafed at criticism they have not done
enough weeks after they bowed to overseas pressure by lifting
their own rescue funds to the symbolic $1 trillion level. The
ECB also lent banks more than that amount in long-term loans.  “We can tell the world with full conviction that the
Europeans have met their commitments,” German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said. ECB President Mario Draghi argued  Spain 
and Italy have done “remarkable work” in tackling their fiscal
woes and that the ECB officials have not recently considered
heeding the IMF’s call for more stimulus.  “The problems in Europe can’t be solved by monetary
policy,” Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said in an
interview today. “Monetary policy has already made a great
contribution to stabilize the situation and is expansionary for
the euro region as a whole.”  Negotiations over the second replenishing of the IMF’s
coffers in three years dominated yesterday’s meeting in
Washington of G-20 finance chiefs. It didn’t come without a
fight and fell short of Lagarde’s initial goal of $600 billion
in new resources to bolster a lending capacity currently at $380
billion.  U.K., Australia  While countries from the U.K. to Australia pledged money,
 emerging markets  from  China  to Brazil held back details of their
commitments as they tied them to securing more heft within the
IMF. A 2010 plan to reduce the power of rich nations has yet to
be ratified, leading Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  to
complain that progress “has been limited and slow.”  The G-20 conceded in a statement that votes at the fund
“should better reflect weights of IMF members in the world
economy, which have changed substantially in view of strong
growth in dynamic emerging markets.”  Such economies also are concerned that the latest boost of
cash will lessen pressure on European authorities to take the
“painful and politically difficult reforms” still needed, said
 Eswar Prasad , professor of trade policy at  Cornell University 
and a former IMF official.  Rich Nations  Some rich countries including the U.S. have also balked at
contributing more, arguing the IMF already has enough cash and
that the relatively-rich  Europe  should do more to save itself.  With 80 percent of the IMF’s credits set to be tied up in
Europe by 2014 and its executive board heavy with voices from
that continent, Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  proposed
non-Europeans wield a veto over future aid to the region. He
also attacked the IMF for acting alongside European authorities
in orchestrating loans to the likes of Greece.  “Every borrowing country should be treated the same,”
Flaherty said. “This means that conditionality for any program
should be set solely by the IMF.”  Lagarde stressed the new money won’t be earmarked for
Europe, noting “the fund is here for all the membership” and
future loans will come with tough conditions.  Bigger Backstop  The promise of an even bigger financial backstop failed to
placate investors as Spain’s notes extended the longest run of
weekly declines in five years amid questions about whether the
euro-area’s fourth largest economy can slash its  budget deficit .
The country’s 10-year bond yield this month neared the level
which triggered bailouts of Greece, Ireland and Portugal.  The combined IMF and euro-area cash piles are still not
enough to save Spain and Italy if both required help, said
Andrew Kenningham, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
 London . Countries will also struggle to make spending cuts and
tax increases without driving their debts even higher by harming
growth, he said.  “If the crisis does re-escalate in earnest, we suspect it
will not be contained to just one of the two countries,” said
Kenningham, a former U.K. government official. “We doubt that a
combination of austerity and large bailouts will solve the
region’s problems.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  Washington  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  