-- India Court Asks 45 Iron Ore Mines to Get Approval to Start Work
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-04-20T13:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/india-court-asks-45-iron-ore-mines-to-get-approval-to-start-work.html
India’s top court asked 45  iron ore 
mines in Karnataka to seek government approval to resume
operations before lifting a ban imposed in the southern state
after environmental violations.  The ministry of environment and forests must endorse the
applications of the mines after checking their licenses and
report to the court in two weeks, a panel of three judges headed
by Chief Justice S.H. Kapadia said in an order in the Supreme
Court in  New Delhi  today.  Mining in Karnataka’s Bellary region was banned in July and
extended to two other iron ore-rich regions in the state as the
court probed violations of environmental rules. The restrictions
led to production cuts by steel companies, which use iron ore as
a raw material.  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) , India’s third-largest producer of the
alloy, fell 1.6 percent, the most since April 9, to 750.75
rupees at the close in Mumbai. The benchmark Sensitive Index
fell 0.7 percent. The company has a 10 million metric ton-a-year
capacity factory in Karnataka.  State-run  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC)  was allowed by the court to mine 1
million tons of iron ore a month and sell it through online
auctions.  The court on April 13 accepted a report from a panel that
recommended lifting the ban on some iron ore mines in the state.
Mining may take two months to restart after a verdict is passed
on the recommendations, the court said at the time.  The 45 mines asked to seek approval didn’t violate
environmental regulations, according to the panel, which was set
up the  Supreme Court .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratap Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  