-- India’s Largest Solar Program Won’t Follow Federal Import Curbs
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-04-20T10:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/india-s-largest-solar-program-won-t-follow-federal-import-curbs.html
India ’s largest solar power program
in Gujarat state won’t follow the lead of the central government
in imposing restrictions on imports of equipment for projects.  “We don’t want to link manufacturing with generation,”
D.J. Pandian, Gujarat’s principal energy secretary, said in an
interview. “There will be no requirement of local content.”  The central government ruled projects in its Solar Mission
program must buy panels and cells locally, sparking a protest
from U.S. Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade
Francisco Sanchez, who said it’s an “unfair trade practice.”
 Japan  and the European Union have also taken  Canada  to the  World
Trade Organization  over similar provisions in Ontario’s program.  Gujarat plans to award licenses for new plants this year
after building up 600 megawatts of solar capacity, the most of
any Indian state. The administration is waiting for the central
government to announce the rules for its next solar auction so
policies can be aligned, Pandian said today in Gandhinagar.  The western state plans to generate 20 percent of its
electricity from clean sources by 2020, requiring construction
of least 10,000 megawatts of renewable  power plants , he said.  About 350 megawatts of the 958 megawatts of solar capacity
awarded by the state missed a January deadline for completion.
While developers will be allowed to press ahead with the plants
if they can finish by Dec. 31, they will receive a lower rate
for their power from the state-run utility, Pandian said.  “We hope they decide to complete them,” he said. “These
projects are still viable even at the lower tariff.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 