-- India Says Geithner, Mukherjee Discussed Tax Proposals
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-04-20T14:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/india-says-geithner-mukherjee-discussed-tax-proposals-1-.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  raised the issue of proposed tax changes in India with
Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , after U.S. trade and lobby
groups raised concerns that the plans will hurt investors.  Geithner and Mukherjee discussed the topic at a meeting
between Indian and U.S. officials in  Washington  on April 19, the
finance ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi  today.  Mukherjee said in India’s March 16 budget that he will seek
to change the law to permit taxation of overseas deals in which
an Indian asset is transferred, and that he also wants to clamp
down on tax avoidance. The proposals may lead to retroactive tax
bills for periods of as much as 50 years and deter foreign
investment, the U.S. groups said in an April 17 letter to
Geithner, urging him to raise the matter with  India .  Mukherjee said the plans were not “substantive but
clarificatory in nature,” according to today’s statement, which
added Indian tax laws mandate that companies making capital
gains from the assets located in Asia’s third-largest economy
have to pay taxes either in their country of origin or in India.  Geithner said “certain tax provisions in India’s fiscal
year 2013 budget have raised significant concern amongst U.S.
industry and dampened enthusiasm about India’s investment
climate,” according to an emailed statement from Treasury
spokeswoman Kara Alaimo. The Treasury Department is examining
India’s proposed tax provisions to determine their impact on the
U.S.-India bilateral income-tax treaty, it said.  Geithner “encouraged Finance Minister Mukherjee to
reassure foreign investors that India will continue to welcome
foreign capital,” by advancing important economic reforms that
will increase opportunities for bilateral trade and investment,
and strengthen India’s business climate through greater
transparency and predictability, the statement said.  The proposed changes follow a ruling in January by India’s
 Supreme Court  that Vodafone Group Plc doesn’t have to pay $2.2
billion in tax on its purchase, conducted offshore, of the
Indian business of Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. in 2007.  Vodafone has threatened to pursue international arbitration
if India proceeds with the plans. The telecom operator’s Dutch
unit served a notice of dispute to the government, invoking an
investment treaty between India and the Netherlands. Vodafone
conducted the transaction at issue using a Dutch subsidiary.  Government estimates show Indian  growth  cooled to 6.9
percent in the 12 months through March, the least in three
years. The slowdown has sapped tax revenues even as subsidies
spur spending, leaving the $1.7 trillion economy with the widest
 budget deficit  among the biggest  emerging markets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  