-- Intuit Falls After Saying Revenue May Be Less Than Forecast
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-04-20T20:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/intuit-falls-after-saying-revenue-may-be-less-than-forecast-1-.html
Intuit Inc. (INTU) , a provider of tax and
personal-finance software, fell the most in eight months after
it said fiscal third-quarter revenue will be “at or slightly
below the low end” of its previous forecast.  The  Mountain View , California-maker of TurboTax and
QuickBooks software made the disclosure today in a statement.
Intuit had  previously projected  sales of $1.95 billion to $1.99
billion. Analysts, on average, were predicting sales of $1.97
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Intuit said sales of online tax-prep software -- its
largest category -- didn’t grow as fast as expected this season.
The performance was the result of competition from  H&R Block
Inc. (HRB)  and other providers, Brad Zelnick, an analyst at Macquarie
Capital USA in  New York , wrote in a research note. H&R Block has
increased advertising spending and offered free tax-preparation
services to win back business lost to Intuit.  “Intuit may have lost share in the digital category this
year,” wrote Zelnick, who has a neutral rating on Intuit.
“While we are unsure of exactly which competitor(s) benefited
from Intuit’s share loss, we note H&R Block digital return
growth outpaced Intuit” as of the end of February.  Unit sales of TurboTax Desktop, a packaged version of the
tax-preparation software, declined 3 percent to 5.88 million in
the tax season through April 18, Intuit said. The online version
increased 11 percent to 17.5 million units.  Long-Term Growth  Online tax-preparation software “grew at the lower end”
of expectations, Intuit said. Still, the company said, “we
believe we gained about one point of share online and are well
positioned for long-term growth.”  The  shares  fell 6 percent to $57.25 at at the close in New
York for the biggest decline since Aug. 10. The stock has
climbed 8.9 percent this year.  Sales of versions of TurboTax that users pay for increased
7 percent from this time last year, a slowdown from the 8
percent Intuit reported in March.  The “modest” revenue reduction and Intuit’s controls on
expenses should still let the company grow in double digits,
 Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG in San Francisco, said in a
research note. Thill recommends buying the shares.  Intuit reaffirmed its full-year revenue and  earnings 
forecast for fiscal 2012. Intuit also said it expects consumer
tax revenue growth of about 11 percent for the year. Full-year
revenue will be in the range of $4.19 billion to $4.29 billion,
the company projected. Intuit is scheduled to report third-
quarter earnings on May 18.  Peter Goldmacher , an analyst at Cowen & Co. in San
Francisco, said in a research note that Intuit’s tax software
business can grow over time as the company takes advantage of
consumers’ shift to software from using retail tax-prep stores.  “We don’t think these numbers should have investors
questioning the long term viability of the consumer tax
business,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  