-- Most Expensive Irish House Withdrawn After Value Falls 75%
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-04-20T11:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/ireland-s-most-expensive-house-withdrawn-after-75-discount.html
The most expensive home sold during
Ireland’s real-estate boom was taken off the market after the
owner offered it for about a quarter of the price paid seven
years ago.  Walford, a six-bedroom Edwardian house in Dublin’s embassy
belt, was withdrawn earlier this year, Iris Keating, a broker at
 Savills Plc (SVS) , said by telephone today. The property on Shrewsbury
Road in the Ballsbridge district was offered for sale for 15
million euros ($20 million), after it was previously purchased
for 58 million euros, according to Savills. The London-based
company and Irish broker Lisney advised the seller.  House prices  in the Irish capital have declined 56 percent
since the country’s property boom ended in late 2007, according
to government data. The market’s collapse saddled Ireland’s
banks with bad loans and drained the fortunes of property
millionaires enriched by surging prices.  The identity of Walford’s owner hasn’t been disclosed.
Savills said it received instructions to sell the house from the
trust Matsack Nominees Ltd.  Telecom billionaire  Denis O’Brien ’s family owns a home in
Ballsbridge, about 1 kilometer (0.6 miles) south of the city
center. The Belgian embassy is on the street, as is the
residence of the Finnish ambassador.  Investment in  housing  rose to almost 15 percent of
Ireland’s gross domestic product in 2006, up from about 6
percent in 1996, according to the country’s Economic & Social
Research Institute. The true property price decline may be
larger than official statistics show, according to Sherry
Fitzgerald. In January, the broker said Dublin house prices at
the end of last year had fallen 64 percent from the market’s
peak.  Mortgage lending dropped to 2.46 billion euros last year
from about 40 billion euros at the high point in 2006. The
number of new mortgages granted in the fourth quarter declined
31 percent from a year earlier to 3,856, according to the
Dublin-based Irish Banking Federation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net . 