-- Mistry Stands By Palm-Oil Rally Forecast, Likes Wilmar
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-04-20T05:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/mistry-stands-by-4-000-ringgit-palm-oil-forecast-likes-wilmar.html
Palm oil  may gain 15 percent by the
end of June, according to Godrej International Ltd.’s  Dorab Mistry , restating a yearlong call for a rally to 4,000 ringgit
($1,303) a metric ton after prices dipped.  “I am very happy to reiterate my forecast,” Mistry said
in an e-mailed response to questions. The Godrej director, who’s
correctly forecast price trends over the past year, has been
predicting a rally to that level since at least March 2011.
 Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the world’s biggest palm-oil
processing company, is Mistry’s favorite palm stock, he said.  While prices in Malaysia have climbed 9.1 percent this year,
in line with Mistry’s outlook, they’ve fallen 4.5 percent since
April 10 amid concern the global recovery may be at risk as
economic growth in China slows and the European debt crisis
worsens. Shares in Wilmar International, which have dropped over
the past 12 months, are “good value,” he said.  “My price forecasting is based on fundamentals of supply
and demand and these have not changed,” he wrote. “In fact,
CPO production is underperforming more than my model had
suggested,” referring to crude palm oil by its initials.  Palm oil for July delivery dropped as much as 1 percent to
3,444 ringgit a ton on the  Malaysia  Derivatives Exchange, and
ended the morning session at 3,465 ringgit. That’s down from a
13-month high of 3,628 ringgit on April 10.  “Currently, the macro picture is undergoing a reassessment
and that has led some players to de-risk,” said Mistry, who’s
traded palm oil for more than three decades. “This sentiment
changes from time to time, and as time goes by, each such change
lasts for a shorter duration. Time will tell.”  Cooking Oil  Last year, Mistry predicted the price of the world’s most-
consumed cooking oil, used to make instant noodles and candy,
would bottom out at about 2,800 ringgit before rebounding. Its
lowest price was 2,754 ringgit on Oct. 6. Chandran Sinnasamy,
trading head at Kuala-Lumpur based LT International Futures (M)
Sdn., said last month his views are respected by the industry.  China , the biggest user of cooking oils, reported lower-
than-expected gross domestic product  growth  in the first quarter,
raising concern that commodity demand may slow.  Europe ’s
resurgent debt crisis has also roiled equity and commodity
markets as government bond yields climbed.  Production of palm oil in Malaysia and  Indonesia  in January
and February fell slightly short of forecasts, Mistry said in a
speech in Beijing on March 27. The two countries are the world’s
largest producers.  Malaysian Output  In March, Malaysian  production  was 1.21 million tons,
according to the nation’s palm oil board. That’s 14 percent
lower than a year ago and 2.1 percent more than February.
Malaysia had a so-called high cycle of production in 2011,
resulting in record output of 18.9 million tons. A so-called low
cycle that began in January meant output would range between
18.6 million and 19 million tons in 2012, Mistry said March 7.  The ratio of global stockpiles to demand for nine edible
oils, including soy and palm, may drop this year to the lowest
level since 1977 as drought hurt soybean crops in  South America ,
according to data from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  “At current prices, Wilmar looks very good value,” said
Mistry. “They have by far the most balanced and diversified
 palm portfolio  split between upstream, processing and FMCG,” he
said, referring to fast-moving  consumer goods . While Singapore-
listed Wilmar is one of Godrej’s suppliers, he doesn’t own the
company’s stock, Mistry said.  Wilmar shares dropped 0.2 percent to S$4.88 at 12:59 p.m.
in  Singapore , valuing the company at S$31.2 billion ($24.9
billion). They’ve lost 7.4 percent over the past year, and 2.4
percent in 2012. Of the 30 analysts’ calls on Wilmar stock
tracked by Bloomberg, there are 11 “buys” and 14 “holds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  