-- J&J Open to Expanding Hepatitis C Cooperation With Vertex
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-04-20T15:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/j-j-open-to-expanding-hepatitis-c-collaboration-with-vertex-1-.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Janssen unit
said it may explore widening cooperation on hepatitis C with
 Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  that may develop in tandem with a
separate partnership with  Medivir AB (MVIRB)  on the disease.  “We remain open to see if we can expand our
collaboration,” Gaston Picchio, vice president of Janssen’s
global clinical virology and hepatitic disease area, said in an
interview today in Barcelona, where he’s attending the  European
Association for the Study of the Liver  annual meeting. “Vertex
has announced plans for developing interferon-free therapies. We
are partners, so that puts us in a better position to be a part
of that,” should studies prove to be promising.  Vertex said on April 18 that it will start enrolling
patients in a mid-stage study combining three medicines,
excluding interferon, a core component of the current standard
of care. Vertex and competitors including  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ,
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  are racing to
develop next-generation treatments for hepatitis C that exclude
interferon because of flu-like side effects.  Vertex and J&J collaborated to develop telaprevir, marketed
as Incivek by Vertex in  North America  and as Incivo by Janssen
in other regions including Europe. The drug was approved by
regulators last year as a treatment for hepatitis C in
combination with interferon and ribavirin.  Medivir Project  J&J, which has its headquarters in New Brunswick, New
Jersey, is also developing the protease inhibitor TMC435 with
Huddinge, Sweden-based Medivir, which has said mid-stage trials
of the drug in interferon-free combinations with Gilead’s 7977
and with Bristol-Myers’s daclatasvir experimental drugs are
starting in the second quarter.  While J&J and Medivir are also developing the TMC647
polymerase inhibitor, Vertex’s VX-222 compound in the same class
of drugs is further along in development. VX-222 is one of the
three drugs included in Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Vertex’s
mid-stage interferon-free treatment study.  Meanwhile, J&J is also “committed” to improving the
labeling of Incivo by conducting further trials that examine
less frequent dosage as well as efficacy in patients also
infected by the HIV virus and those who have had liver
transplants, Picchio said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  Barcelona  via 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  