-- Japan Housing Sells Record-Low Yield Mortgage-Backed Bonds
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2012-04-20T07:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/japan-housing-sells-record-low-yield-mortgage-backed-bonds-1-.html
Japan  Housing Finance Agency sold
275.5 billion yen ($3.4 billion) of residential mortgage-backed
notes with the lowest yield in its five-year history, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bonds were priced to yield 1.34 percent, or 40 basis
points more than 10-year  benchmark government debt , the data
show. The sale is the agency’s biggest since April 2011 and the
yield is the lowest since it was established in 2007, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investors are buying residential-mortgage backed
securities, or RMBS, that have a top credit rating and still pay
a premium as the yield on Japan’s benchmark 10-year debt fell to
0.93 percent this week, the lowest since November 2010. The
notes offered the same extra yield as the preceding sale on
March 16, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is a better buy than JGBs or corporate bonds,”
Hisayoshi Nogawa, a Tokyo-based structured credit strategist at
BNP Paribas SA, said in a telephone interview today. “Only
power company notes, which investors shun now, can pay a 40
basis-point spread with similar credit ratings.”  RMBS originated by Japan Housing have the top investment
grade AAA from both  Standard & Poor’s  and Japan’s Rating and
Investment Information, the data show. Japan’s 10 regional power
companies are rated AA or higher by R&I with the exception of
Tohoku Electric Power Co. and Tokyo Electric Power Co.  Mitsubishi Estate Co., rated AA, or two levels below Japan
Housing’s RMBS, sold 20 billion yen of 1.087 percent 10-year
bonds today at a spread of 15 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The extra yield investors demand to own
Kansai Electric Power Co.’s note due 2020 rather than government
debt was 47 basis points yesterday, Japan Securities Dealers
Association prices show.  “The low rate could work as an incentive for home
buyers,” Toshitsugu Kanatani, chief deputy director at Japan
Housing’s market operations department, said in a telephone
interview from  Tokyo . “The coupon was set at this level as a
result of supply and demand after our careful conversation with
investors.”  Japan Housing buying loans from private financial
institutions and issuing mortgage-backed securities using the
debt as collateral is similar to the U.S. government-controlled
 Fannie Mae . Japan Housing also underwrites insurance for long-
term fixed-rate housing made by private banks, and guarantees
the payment on mortgage-backed securities backed by the loans, a
model similar to Washington-based Ginnie Mae.  The maturity of RMBS depends on repayment of loans backing
the notes, and the weighted average life is about 10 years,
Nogawa said. Japan Housing has 7.7 trillion yen of RMBS
outstanding out of total sales of 9.8 trillion yen, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  