-- Kerviel Seeks Vindication, Apology in Appeal Case, Lawyer Says
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-04-20T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/kerviel-seeks-vindication-apology-in-appeal-case-lawyer-says.html
Jerome Kerviel  will focus on a tax
credit obtained by  Societe Generale  SA to undermine the bank’s
credibility in a bid to overturn a verdict finding he was solely
responsible for the lender’s 4.9 billion-euro ($6.4 billion)
trading loss.  Kerviel was sentenced in 2010 to three years in jail and
ordered to repay Societe Generale for the full loss. His new
lawyer, David Koubbi, says if nothing else, the 1.7 billion-euro
tax credit obtained by the bank after the unauthorized trades
were uncovered should be offset against what his client owes.  “Before we even get started, the amount of the loss was
wrong,” Koubbi said in an interview. The “fable” of a 4.9
billion-euro loss “was just stated, it was never examined
closely by anyone.”  Kerviel, now 35, was found guilty of breach of trust,
forging documents and computer hacking. He amassed 50 billion
euros in unauthorized positions concealed with faked hedges. The
lower court judges rejected arguments that his superiors knew he
exceeded his limits and the bank made a mistake by unwinding the
bets over three days of falling markets in 2008.  “We expect a finding that there was no loss, a dismissal,
and at least an apology,” Koubbi said from his office two
blocks from the Arc de Triomphe in Paris. “To me, the victim is
very clearly Jerome Kerviel.”  Banon Lawyer  Koubbi, who previously represented Kerviel on defamation
issues, is taking over the criminal case from  Olivier Metzner ,
who left the legal team last month after a dispute over
appellate strategy.  The 39-year-old lawyer represented Tristane Banon, a French
writer who accused  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , former chief of the
 International Monetary Fund , of attempted rape. Prosecutors last
year rejected her request to open a probe, saying evidence of
sexual assault from the 2003 incident couldn’t be pursued as the
complaint was filed after the statute of limitations expired.  The lower court’s ruling in Kerviel case was based on well-
established case law and will be difficult to challenge, said
Emmanuel Moyne, a Paris lawyer with Linklaters LLP.  “It’s a fairly classic reasoning,” said Moyne, who wasn’t
involved in the case. “What was spectacular was the amount of
loss suffered, which explained the amount of damages awarded.”  The Paris appeals court has scheduled hearings in the case
from June 4 to June 28.  Societe Generale (GLE)  and its lawyer,  Jean Veil , declined to comment on Kerviel’s defense.  Unwinding Bets  Some of Koubbi’s arguments may sound familiar. Kerviel has
long disputed the amount that the bank lost unwinding his bets,
and argues France’s second-largest bank knew he was faking
documents and entering false information into the computer
system to disguise his positions.  Koubbi said he will present new arguments, new evidence and
new witnesses, though he declined to detail who he would call.
In addition, some evidence gathered during the investigation was
handed over to Metzner less than a month before the first trial,
and wasn’t fully examined, he said.  One of the main arguments will focus on the massive trading
loss. The 4.9 billion-euro figure was the difference between the
6.38 billion euros the bank lost unwinding the positions and
Kerviel’s 2007 trading profit of 1.47 billion euros.  The bank announced in 2008 that it received the tax credit
for the loss, ultimately coming to 1.7 billion euros. The court
should have reduced the amount Kerviel was ordered to pay to 3.2
billion euros, Koubbi said.  Letter to Senate  Koubbi has written to the Senate, questioning why the
credit was awarded before a court had ruled on the matter and
arguing a 4 million-euro fine by  France ’s bank regulator for
risk control failures related to the loss disqualified the bank
from receiving the credit.  Veil, the SocGen lawyer, dismissed the allegation when it
was made by Metzner after the 2010 verdict, calling it
“defamatory” to say the bank misled the court about the size
of the loss.  Societe Generale said after the ruling it had “learned its
lessons” from the episode and improved its risk controls. A
report commissioned by the bank’s board also faulted its
internal monitors, saying in May 2008 that Kerviel’s supervisors
failed to “react in an appropriate manner to several alert
signals” and missed at least 1,071 bogus trades.  Four months after the loss,  Daniel Bouton  ceded the chief
executive post to his deputy,  Frederic Oudea . Bouton stepped
down as chairman the following year.  While four years have passed, the economic context is “the
same, no one has learned anything from 2008” about risk and
bank transparency, said Koubbi. As France goes to vote in the
first round of presidential elections on April 22, Koubbi asked,
“why haven’t candidates questioned why 1.7 billion euros was
given as a gift to a bank contrary to the law?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 