-- Kimberly-Clark Profit Tops Estimates on Higher Pricing
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-04-20T20:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/kimberly-clark-profit-tops-estimates-on-higher-pricing.html
Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) , the maker of
Huggies diapers and Kleenex tissues, reported first-quarter
profit that topped analysts’ estimates, helped by price
increases and international sales growth.  Net income rose 34 percent to $468 million, or $1.18 a
share, from $350 million, or 86 cents, a year earlier, the
Dallas-based company said today in a statement. Excluding some
items, profit was $1.24, compared with the $1.17 average of 13
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Kimberly-Clark, along with other consumer-products
companies, raised prices in the past year to mitigate higher
expenses for some commodities that are now moderating. Organic
sales growth rose 13 percent in the international division,
compared with 6 percent companywide.  “Clearly, the overseas part of this is helping,”  Jack
Russo , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co., said today in an
interview. “They’re off to a good start, and this hopefully
bodes well for the other personal care-household products
companies,” said Russo, who recommends holding the shares.  The shares rose 1.6 percent to $76.47 at the close in New
York. Kimberly-Clark has gained 4 percent this year.  Revenue advanced 4.2 percent to $5.24 billion, according to
the statement. The company is still coping with continued low
birthrates in the developed world, and in January predicted
full-year profit that trailed analysts’ estimates, citing
slowing demand in developed markets and foreign currency
“headwinds” this year.  Boost Marketing  Kimberly-Clark reaffirmed its full-year earnings forecast
of $5 to $5.15 a share, excluding restructuring costs.  Connie Maneaty , an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in New
York, said in a note today that the forecast is “conservative,
especially given the solid organic sales results” in the first
quarter. She has a “market perform” rating on the shares.  Kimberly-Clark plans to boost marketing faster than sales,
particularly overseas, Chief Executive Officer Tom Falk said in
the statement. Last year, about half of the company’s sales came
from outside the U.S.  Television advertising is still important in developing
markets and social media is particularly effective in reaching
overseas consumers buying diapers and feminine care, Chief
Financial Officer Mark Buthman said today in a telephone
interview.  Executives on a conference call discussed extending more of
the company’s brands overseas. Kimberly-Clark sees opportunities
to expanding categories in developing markets, such as
incontinence products, Buthman said.  Cost Reductions  The quarter included $60 million in cost reductions. While
the cost of fiber fell, total prices for materials rose $10
million from a year earlier. For this year, Kimberly-Clark said
it expects its commodity costs to range from a $50 million
decrease to a $50 million increase.  Kimberly-Clark is more affected by commodity costs than
other consumer products companies because of the range of
products it sells, said Russo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  