-- Kingsman Cuts Brazil’s Cane Output, Keeps Sugar Forecast
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-04-20T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/kingsman-cuts-brazil-s-cane-output-keeps-sugar-forecast.html
The sugar cane crop in top producer
 Brazil ’s main growing region will be 510 million metric tons
this season, or 1.9 percent lower than a previous forecast, due
to dry weather, Kingsman SA said.  That compares with a previous forecast of 520 million tons
for the 2012-13 season starting this month, the Lausanne,
Switzerland-based broker and researcher said in a report e-
mailed today. Sugar output was kept at 32.8 million tons as
millers will direct more of the raw material to the sweetener at
the expense of ethanol, the report showed. The biofuel and sugar
are both made from cane in the South American country.  The lack of rains in the region last month and in February
“affected the same cane growing regions that had been touched
by drought between August and September 2011, thus aggravating
its impact on cane development,” Kingsman said in the report.
“As a consequence, cane buds are thinner and smaller than
average, which will affect productivity in the center south.”  Sugar cane production in the area in the 2011-12 season
dropped to 493.3 million tons after dry weather, frost and
flowering damaged the crop, according to industry group Unica.
That was the first decline in a decade, the data show. Sugar
output was 31.3 million tons in the period, Unica said on April
12.  Millers in the region will direct 48.6 percent of all the
cane harvested to sugar output, up from a previous estimate of
48 percent, Kingsman estimates. The remainder will be used for
ethanol production, which is set to total 21.4 billion liters
(5.65 billion gallons), the broker said. That’s down from a
previous forecast of 21.9 billion liters, according to the
report.  “The decrease in our cane estimate is made at the expense
of ethanol,” the broker said. “The large majority of the
latest new mills are devoted to sugar production. Together with
the recent investments on crystallization capacity, the
potential for a larger sugar mix has increased over recent
years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 