-- Kroton in Talks for Brazil Education Acquisitions
-- B y   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 2012-04-20T23:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/kroton-in-talks-for-brazil-education-acquisitions.html
Kroton Educacional SA (KROT3) ,  Brazil ’s
 best-performing  education stock this year, is in talks to buy
three companies and will probably exceed its own earnings
forecasts this year, Chief Executive Officer Rodrigo Galindo
said.  Galindo said the company, which has Advent International
Corp. among its controlling shareholders, plans to expand in the
northern half of Brazil after agreeing to buy the nation’s
biggest distance-learning institution, Unopar, for 1.3 billion
reais ($690 million) in December. The potential acquisition
targets may add about 15,000 students to Belo Horizonte-based
Kroton, he said.  “There are a lot of opportunities for consolidation in the
in-class business, and we want to take advantage of that,”
Galindo said in an April 17 interview at Bloomberg’s office in
Sao Paulo.  The company’s  shares  rose 0.5 percent to 25.92 reais in Sao
Paulo, while rivals  Anhanguera Educacional Participacoes SA (AEDU3) 
gained 2 percent and  Estacio Participacoes SA (ESTC3)  went up 0.9
percent. Kroton has advanced 41 percent this year, compared with
a gain of 29 percent for both Anhanguera and Estacio. The
 Bovespa Small Cap index , which includes the three companies, has
risen 20 percent.  Kroton is adding students faster than it anticipated as the
government steps up subsidized lending to improve education in
the world’s second-largest developing market. The admissions
will help boost  operating earnings  at Kroton’s in-class
business, whose profit as a share of revenue will top a company
estimate of 17 percent this year, Galindo said.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization may rise to about 300 million reais ($160 million)
this year, more than the 285 million reais initially expected,
he said.  Kroton has more than 600,000 students, according to its
website.  Ten of the  12 analysts  covering Kroton have a buy
recommendation on the shares, while one recommends holding the
securities and another has a sell rating.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Felipe Frisch in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  