-- NBA Union’s Executive Committee Asks President Fisher to Resign
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-04-21T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/nba-union-s-executive-committee-asks-president-fisher-to-resign.html
Derek Fisher  has been asked to
resign as leader of the  National Basketball Players Association 
by its executive committee for “failing to uphold his duties”
as president.  The other eight players on the New York-based union’s
committee voted unanimously to ask for Fisher’s resignation, the
organization said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The
committee said it based the decision on “numerous instances
over the past six months where Fisher engaged in conduct
detrimental to the union, including acting in contravention of
the players’ best interests during collective bargaining,
declining to follow the NBPA Constitution and failing to uphold
the duties of the union president.”  Jamie Wior, a spokeswoman for Fisher, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the union’s assertions.  The resignation request comes as the league is winding down
a season shortened to 66 games from 82 by a lockout. The labor
disagreement ended in December when the NBA and its union agreed
to a new 10-year labor deal that provides for a 50-50 split of
revenue between the league’s owners and players.  Fisher, who signed with the Oklahoma City Thunder in March
after spending 13 of his previous 16 National Basketball
Association seasons with the  Los Angeles Lakers , has more than
two years left on his term as union president.  The request for his resignation came days after he urged
the executive committee to conduct an internal investigation of
how the union, run by  Executive Director   Billy Hunter , handles
its finances and business, news organizations including SI.com
reported. The committee agreed, then changed its mind.  Today’s statement said its executive board was again
calling for Fisher’s resignation, without citing the first
instance he was asked to stepped down.  Fisher Response  Before the committee’s statement was released, Fisher
responded to reports on  Yahoo Sports  and SI.com that the union
leadership wanted him out.  “I do and have always taken my job as president of the
players’ association very, very seriously,” Fisher said during
a practice before the Thunder’s game last night at the
 Sacramento Kings . “Anyone or any group who questions my
intentions in any decisions I’ve ever made that I felt were best
for our players I think need to step back for a moment and ask
themselves this: Why would I try and ask certain questions and
call into review the association that I’m the president of
unless I thought there were some serious questions that needed
to be answered, things that I, as president, aren’t satisfied
with?”  The union said it performs annual financial audits that are
shared with the executive committee, completed a financial audit
in February, and after completing business reviews following the
completion of new collective bargaining agreements in 1999 and
2005, will conduct another business review “in a timely
manner.”  Executive Committee  The nine-player executive committee consists of Fisher, the
 Boston Celtics ’ Keyon Dooling, the Miami Heat’s  James Jones , the
San Antonio Spurs’ Matt Bonner, the Washington Wizards’ Roger Mason and Maurice Evans, the Los Angeles Clippers’  Chris Paul ,
the Los Angeles Lakers’ Theo Ratliff and the Atlanta Hawks’ Etan Thomas.  This isn’t the first time the union has had internal
disagreement. Executive Director Simon Gourdine was ousted by a
unanimous vote of player representatives in 1996 after a group
led by  Michael Jordan  and  Patrick Ewing  unsuccessfully tried to
decertify the union during labor talks. Gourdine’s removal came
two months after union President Buck Williams announced a two-
year contract for the executive director. Ewing later became
president of the union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 