-- Nestle Sales Beat Estimates on Nescafe, Friskies Pet Food
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-04-20T15:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/nestle-first-quarter-sales-advance-on-nescafe-friskies-pet-food.html
Nestle SA, (NESN)  the world’s biggest food
maker, reported first-quarter revenue growth that beat analyst
estimates as the Swiss company sold more Nescafe soluble coffee
in  China  and Friskies pet food in North America.  Sales increased 7.2 percent excluding acquisitions,
divestments and currency swings, Vevey-based Nestle said today
in a statement. That exceeded the 6.7 percent average  estimate 
of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  New products such as Maggi Juicy Roasting cooking aids and
Dreyer’s smoothies has helped Nestle counter weakening consumer
sentiment in the U.S. and Europe, while expanding in Asia and
other  emerging markets . The company said 2012 has already proved
itself to be “challenging” and that it didn’t see any
“dramatic” change in growth patterns during the first quarter
compared to the October-December period. Raw-material prices
will rise at a “low to mid single-digit” pace.  “The consumer environment in western  Europe  is tough,”
Roddy Child-Villiers, head of  investor relations , said on a
conference call. “Perhaps a bit tougher than it was last
year.” The raw-material cost pressure may be felt most during
the first six months and input cost pressure may be greater than
some analysts have estimated, he said.  Meeting Target  Nestle expects organic sales growth for the year to meet
its target of 5 percent to 6 percent after beating that range in
both 2010 and 2011. The KitKat maker also has a goal to widen
its so-called trading operating profit margin in constant
currencies and boost earnings per share on the same basis.  Nestle  shares  fell 0.2 percent to 57.10 francs in Zurich
trading. The stock has gained 5.7 percent this year and closed
at a record 57.20 francs yesterday.  “Unlike competitors, they can still grow in the developed
world,” said Jon Cox, head of Swiss research at Kepler Capital
Markets. Nestle said organic revenue rose 3.1 percent in
developed markets and 13 percent in emerging regions.  Higher prices contributed 4.4 percent to sales growth,
higher than analyst estimates of 3.8 percent. Volume increased
2.8 percent, led by 7.2 percent growth in the  Asia , Oceania and
Africa region.  Acquisitions added 3 percent to sales in the quarter,
according to the statement. Nestle has made an offer of about
$10 billion for  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s baby-food business, people with
knowledge of the matter said earlier this month.  Acquisitions  Pfizer is expected to make a decision on the business next
week, according to the people.  France ’s  Danone (BN)  has made a
similar offer, though has told outsiders it is unlikely to win
the auction and Nestle may be the final bidder, one person said.  Organic sales at Nestle’s nutrition unit, which also makes
BabyNes baby-formula capsules and Jenny Craig weight-loss
products, increased 5.8 percent in the quarter.  Revenue at the Nestle Waters unit gained 8 percent, boosted
by growth in emerging markets and  North America . Nestle owns the
world’s largest bottled-water brand in  Pure Life .  Total sales during the first three months rose to 21.4
billion Swiss francs ($23.4 billion) from 20.3 billion francs a
year earlier. The strength of the franc against other currencies
stripped 4.6 percentage points off sales growth, Nestle said.  The Purina pet-food maker has forecast  capital spending  in
2012 will be 5 percent to 6 percent of sales. It has also said
it will have  net debt  of 15 billion francs to 18 billion francs
by 2013, compared with 14.3 billion francs at the end of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  