-- News Corp.’s ‘Likely’ Phone-Hacking Victim List Passes 1,000
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-04-20T13:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/news-corp-s-likely-phone-hacking-victim-list-passes-1-000-1-.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World
tabloid probably hacked into the mobile-phone voice mails of
over a thousand people, a lawyer for victims told a London judge
today, citing new police figures.  The  Metropolitan Police Service  increased the number of
likely victims to 1,174 from 829, said the lawyer,  Hugh Tomlinson , in a London court. The data, including about 4,800
“potential” victims, was disclosed days before News Corp.
Chairman Rupert Murdoch and his son, James, will testify at a
U.K. media-ethics inquiry stemming from the scandal.  News Corp., based in  New York , has spent at least $195
million dealing with the scandal and settling with dozens of
celebrities, lawmakers and crime victims to avoid a public trial
that had been scheduled for February. Since then, at least 46
more victims have sued, including Emma Noble, the ex-wife of
former U.K. Prime Minister  John Major ’s son, and singer Gemma
Abbey, who both filed claims this week.  Judge Geoffrey Vos scheduled today’s hearing to consider
proposals from victims and News Corp.’s U.K. unit, News
International, about how to handle current and future cases with
a common procedure as they’re filed and settled. The publisher’s
lawyer, Michael Silverleaf, said the company is still committed
to settling all claims to avoid a second potential trial
tentatively scheduled for early next year.  No ‘Third Tranche’  “I want this second tranche of cases to be as complete as
possible,” Vos said. “I don’t want to be here next year
managing a third tranche of this litigation.”  The Met is still contacting likely phone-hacking victims,
Tomlinson said today. Police, who are also probing computer
hacking and bribery of public officials by News Corp.’s U.K.
titles, have arrested 45 people since last year, including a
royal editor at News Corp.’s Sun tabloid detained yesterday.  The last trial was called off in February after London-
based News International agreed to pay 600,000 pounds ($967,100)
to the Welsh singer Charlotte Church and her parents to settle
their lawsuit. She was the last victim whose case was prepared
to go to trial at the time.  Tomlinson said victims of other types of illegal behavior
by News Corp., such as computer hacking or the use of deception
to gain personal details, should be included in the group
litigation dominated by phone-hacking claims.  ‘Hacking Just One’  “There’s a whole series of alleged information-gathering
activities, of which phone hacking is just one,” Tomlinson
said. “All the claims should be treated as coming under this
litigation.”  The company also asked Vos to consider whether it’s
necessary to identify new “test cases” for the group -- a
procedure used last year that became cumbersome as the lawsuits
were repeatedly settled and replaced. They must also decide if
there should be a limited pool of approved lawyers for victims
to help limit legal costs, Vos said.  Rupert Murdoch  shuttered the News of the World in July to
help contain public outrage after it was revealed the tabloid
hacked the voice mail of a murdered schoolgirl. News
International’s ex-chief executive officer, Rebekah Brooks, was
among those arrested at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  