-- Nexon Rises After Saying It May Buy Game Developers: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-04-20T00:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/nexon-rises-after-saying-it-may-buy-game-developers-tokyo-mover.html
Nexon Co. (3659) , the video-game maker
that raised about $1.2 billion in  Japan ’s biggest initial public
offering last year, rose in Tokyo trading after saying it’s in
talks to buy smartphone and mobile-game developers.  Nexon gained as much as 4.1 percent to 1,567 yen, the
highest level since listing in December, and traded at 1,548 yen
as of 9:39 a.m., extending its advance this year to 40 percent.
Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.2 percent.  “There are a lot of good mobile-game developers” being
considered for acquisition in Japan, Nexon Chief Financial
Officer Owen Mahoney said in an interview. He declined to name
any targets or give other details about possible purchases for
the maker of the “Zombie Misfits” game.  Nexon announced two investments in game companies in the
past two months and is seeking acquisitions as it plans to
introduce 20 titles including “MapleStory” and “Three
Kingdoms 3D” for mobile phones this year, as users shift away
from consoles. The company, founded in  South Korea  in 1994,
targets a 17 percent increase in sales this year to 102 billion
yen ($1.2 billion), it said in February.  “The push toward mobile is luring investors,” said  Mitsuo Shimizu , an analyst at Cosmo Securities Co. in Tokyo. “It’s a
great strategy as the market is sure to grow.”  Nexon gets about 90 percent of sales from games that run on
personal computers. Users play for free and can purchase virtual
goods that enhance the experience, a model also used by  Zynga
Inc. (ZNGA) ’s “FarmVille” and “CityVille” on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
social-networking site.  Mobile Users  “The industry is moving in our direction,” Mahoney said
at the company’s Tokyo headquarters April 18. “We’d like to buy
teams in intellectual properties early in what we consider to be
their total lifetimes and then grow them.”  The U.S. mobile-games market expanded 29 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, the fastest-growing category
of gaming purchases, based on data from NPD Group Inc., a  Port
Washington , New York-based market research firm.  Nexon is gaining users as players move away from dedicated
devices, or consoles, to personal computers, tablets and mobile
phones, Mahoney said. The company benefits from “the absolute
same fundamental shift” as the publishing industry, where
 Amazon Inc. (AMZN)  took customers away from bookstore operators with
the Kindle e-reader, he said.  The games maker had cash and near-cash items of about 126
billion yen as of Dec. 31, up from 44 billion yen as of Sept.
30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company raised its  stake  in Sungnam, South Korea-based
 JC Entertainment Corp. (067000)  to 22 percent and agreed to take a 20
percent stake in Seoul-based Moyasoft Co., it  said  in
announcements in February.  Monthly active users averaged 80 million in the three
months ended Dec. 31, the company  said  in February. Average
spending per customer was 1,350 yen in the quarter, compared
with 1,305 yen a year earlier, helped by an increase in users in
 China , Nexon said.  Net income will probably  jump  30 percent to 33.5 billion
yen this year, Nexon forecast in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  