-- Nine U.S. Banks Said to be Examined on Overdraft Fees
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-04-20T04:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/nine-u-s-banks-said-to-be-examined-on-overdraft-fees.html
Two years after regulators gave
Americans more power to manage overdrafts of their checking
accounts, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is reviewing
bank practices to determine if the crackdown went far enough.  The agency, which will decide by the end of the year
whether to write new rules, is scrutinizing nine banks including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Bank of America 
Corp., said four people briefed on the examination.  The inquiry focuses on how financial institutions persuade
customers to enroll in what they call overdraft protection
programs. Examiners are looking at online and mailed marketing
material as well as scripts used by the banks’ customer-service
representatives to determine whether they could be confusing to
consumers, said the people.  Bureau examiners have conveyed “a tone of skepticism that
this is really a good product for borrowers,” said Jo Ann Barefoot of Washington-based Treliant Risk Advisors, who
counsels banks on dealing with federal supervisors.  While tighter rules could help U.S. consumers, they also
could threaten a major revenue stream for banks already
struggling to replace income pinched by new regulations
including a cap on debit-card “swipe” fees. Last year bank
customers paid $31.6 billion in overdraft fees, down from $33.1
billion in 2010, according to Moebs Services, a Lake Bluff,
Illinois-based research firm. About 15 million Americans
overdraw their accounts 10 or more times a year, the firm said.  The bureau’s examiners also are reviewing the banks’
justifications for the size of overdraft fees, two of the people
said. Large banks charge an average $35 per overdraft, compared
with $25 at community banks and  credit unions , Moebs reports.  Charges and Interest  When a customer who’s enrolled in overdraft protection
writes a check or makes a debit that puts an account into a
negative balance, some banks approve the transaction but charge
the flat fee along with interest on the amount advanced. People
who don’t enroll get overdrafts denied at the point of sale.  Policies vary from bank to bank, and may depend on whether
a transaction involves a paper check, debit card or electronic
transfer. For example,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Bank of America don’t
allow overdrafts on debit-card purchases, which are simply
denied if the customer’s account doesn’t have sufficient funds.  The consumer bureau’s inquiry also encompasses regional
banks including  U.S. Bancorp (USB) ,  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , and  PNC
Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , said the people briefed, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the work isn’t public.  The people didn’t give the names of the rest of the nine
banks under scrutiny. Spokesmen for JPMorgan, Bank of America,
Wells Fargo, PNC, Regions and U.S. Bancorp declined to comment.  Inquiry Disclosed  Richard Cordray , installed four months ago by President
 Barack Obama  as the bureau’s first director, disclosed the
overdraft inquiry in general terms on Feb. 22. In a recent
interview, he said the agency is looking at “a lot of data” as
it coordinates with other federal regulators on the subject.  “We want to work with the other agencies to develop, as
much as possible, common guidance on this,” Cordray said. “We
intend and expect to have an action plan on it by the end of the
year.”  Cordray previously has said the agency plans enforcement
action against banks that “exploit consumers with deceptive
marketing.”  Before it officially started work July 21, the bureau had
focused its attention on mortgages and payment cards, the two
major forms of  consumer credit . The only clue to its interest in
checking accounts was the name of the team it fielded in
Washington’s 2011 summer softball league: The Overdrafts.  Billions at Risk  The money at risk for the banking industry could exceed the
impact of the Fed’s 2011 cap on debit card swipe fees, which may
cost the 10 largest banks $4.6 billion a year.  In 2011, Wells Fargo’s retail division took in $4.3 billion
from fees, including overdrafts, roughly equal to a quarter of
the bank’s net income for the year, financial disclosures show.
That same year, JPMorgan brought in $3.2 billion in fees related
to lending and deposits, disclosures show.  Greg McBride , senior analyst with Bankrate.com, said
tighter rules could lead financial companies to make up for the
loss in revenue by raising fees on basic checking services.  “The economics of the checking account become vastly
different without that overdraft income,” McBride said in an
interview.  Consumer activists and lawmakers have long criticized
overdraft protection as a system designed to build profits
rather than protect customers. They say the penalties are too
high, that some banks manipulate the timing of transactions to
maximize fees and that customers were being automatically
enrolled without understanding the potential drawbacks.  Fed and FDIC  As a result, the  Federal Reserve  passed a rule effective
July 1, 2010, requiring banks to obtain an “opt-in” from
customers for overdraft protection on debit and ATM
transactions. After market research on what would benefit
consumers, the Fed didn’t cover paper checks or electronic
transfers.  That same year, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
required the banks it supervised to counsel customers who use
frequent overdrafts about alternate ways to manage their money.
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency proposed its own
guidance, which would cover national banks such as JPMorgan or
Wells, last year.  It’s unclear how the rules have affected enrollment. Moebs
estimates that 77 percent of bank customers have opted in, while
the Consumer Bankers Association concluded in an October study
that the rate was 17 percent. The Center for Responsible
Lending, a Durham, North Carolina-based advocacy group,
estimated the opt-in rate at about 33 percent.  Marketing Continues  Understanding how many people are signing up may help
inform the debate about whether the banks’ marketing is
deceptive. That’s why the consumer bureau hopes to clarify the
enrollment rate as part of its inquiry, said the people briefed.  The rule changes in 2010 didn’t stop banks from marketing
their overdraft programs, which they portray as a consumer
benefit, said Susan Wolfe, vice president for Mintel
Comperemedia, a London-based consultancy that catalogs marketing
materials in financial services.  “The banks are dealing with significant trust and image
issues, so they’re trying to be seen as a partner,” Wolfe said
in an interview.  Chase, the retail arm of JPMorgan, warns customers who
don’t opt for the overdraft protection that they will “need to
make sufficient deposits so that everyday debit card purchases
will be approved,” according to a letter from the bank posted
on the website mainstreet.com in February.  Focus Groups  Susan Weinstock, director of the Safe Checking in the
Electronic Age Project at the Pew Charitable Trusts in
 Washington , said that marketing has led to consumer confusion.  Pew conducted two focus groups on overdrafts during April
2011 and found that people frequently misconstrued the notion of
opting out, Weinstock said.  “We did focus groups where people said, ‘I opted in so I
won’t have to pay the overdraft fee,’” Weinstock said.  Beyond the question of marketing, the Center for
Responsible Lending and other consumer groups have maintained
that the Fed’s rule should have gone further.  “Especially where one party’s incentives are so strong to
entice consent, disclosure will not prevent abuses,” said
Rebecca Borne, senior policy counsel at the center. “You need
substantive reforms of the product.”  The center has called on regulators to require that fees be
“reasonable and proportional” to the costs incurred by banks
in covering overdrafts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net  