-- TNK-BP Says Oil Spills ‘Inherited’; Shares Fall on Putin Rebuke
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-04-20T15:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/tnk-bp-says-oil-spills-inherited-shares-fall-on-putin-rebuke.html
TNK-BP defended efforts to clean up
“inherited” contamination at Soviet-era fields and pipelines
after President-elect Vladimir Putin backed criticism of
Siberian oil spills. Shares extended losses for a second day.  “Recordable incidents” dropped 21 percent last year and
the volume of spilled oil fell 60 percent, while “the
environmental situation, especially at old fields, is far from
ideal,”  Russia ’s third-largest oil producer, owned by  BP Plc (BP/) 
and a group of billionaires, said in an e-mailed statement.  TNK-BP, formed in 2003, operates some of Russia’s oldest
fields, with its biggest, Samotlor, producing since the 1960s.
Energy Minister Sergey Shmatko, in a meeting with Putin
yesterday, criticized the company for paying high  dividends  at
the expense of pipeline maintenance. Regulators will seek
damages from TNK-BP as one of the biggest polluters of the Ob
and Yenisei river basins in Siberia, said Natural Resources
Minister Yuri Trutnev.  TNK-BP shares lost 1.2 percent to 89.77 rubles in Moscow,
the lowest in two months. Its two-day decline extended to 5.5
percent, the most in almost seven months.  “The market is also pricing in remaining dividends for
2011, which are to be announced within a month,”  Alexei Kokin ,
an analyst at UralSib Financial Corp., said in a note. “We
estimate the risk to the dividend yield at 2 percentage points.  ‘Inherited’ Pollution  The company reported 413 pipeline ruptures at Samotlor,
Russia’s largest oil deposit, of a total 1,186 leaks last year.
That is a decrease from 496 incidents at the field in 2010,
according to the company’s statement. TNK-BP is seeking to stem
production declines at the mature field.  Each year, 300,000 metric tons to 500,000 tons of oil and
products are leaked into the Ob and Yenisei river basins,
Trutnev told Putin yesterday, saying TNK-BP was the biggest
offender. Spills as a result of pipeline incidents dropped to 75
tons of oil products last year, TNK-BP said.  TNK-BP has paid $2.1 billion for clean-up since 2003 and
has established a dedicated $500 million fund  ‘‘to resolve the
inherited environmental problems, accumulated since 1962,”
according to its statement.  Dividends paid out last year amounted to $7.9 billion,
according to a company presentation.  Trutnev ordered the Natural Resources Inspectorate to
prepare damage claims and recommended the company prepare a plan
for replacing its pipelines, saying TNK-BP has sufficient funds
to triple investments in maintenance and repairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  