-- Nokia Loses Court Ruling Over Sale of 3G Handsets in Germany
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-04-20T14:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/nokia-loses-ruling-on-wireless-patent-to-ipcom-in-germany.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  lost a ruling in a patent
lawsuit by IPCom GmbH & Co. over wireless technology that could
remove Nokia third-generation handsets from the German market.  Nokia must stop all 3G phone sales in Germany under the
Regional Court of Mannheim’s ruling, IPCom said today in an
e-mailed statement. Nokia will appeal, spokesman Mark Durrant
said. Most of the phones affected came out before the patent and
today’s products use different methods, he said.  IPCom, based in Pullach, Germany, is seeking to force Nokia
to pay royalties for a portfolio of mobile-technology patents it
acquired from  Robert Bosch GmbH  in 2007. The two companies are
entangled in patent litigation across  Europe . The ruling
concerns a patent known as 100DE, which is part of a group of
patents that cover how to connect devices to 3G wireless
networks and prioritize them.  “Today’s court ruling clearly says that none of Nokia’s
UMTS-compatible mobile phones must be distributed in the German
market,” said Bernhard Frohwitter, chief executive officer of
IPCom, referring to 3G devices. “The decision does not say that
only older models are affected.”  The Mannheim tribunal didn’t accept that alternative
designs by Nokia didn’t infringe the patent, and said that all
phones capable of using UMTS 3G technology were affected, IPCom
said in its statement.  Appeal Process  Under German law, patent infringement rulings don’t take
effect immediately. During appeal, the ruling only takes effect
if the winning party enforces it. In such a case, the losing
party as a rule asks the court to halt enforcement while the
matter is pending.  IPCom would have to post a bond of at least 100 million
euros ($132 million) if it wants to enforce the injunction while
the case is still pending on appeal, according to the judgment.  Germany  was Nokia’s fifth-biggest market by revenue in 2011
and the largest in western Europe, according to a company
filing. The market rankings include equipment joint venture
Nokia Siemens Networks.  Nokia  fell  3.8 percent to 2.81 euros as of 5:38 p.m. in
Helsinki, extending its decline for a third day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  