-- Northwestern Mutual Sells Seattle Tower for $480 Million
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-04-20T20:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/northwestern-mutual-sells-seattle-tower-for-480-million.html
Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
Co. sold the  Seattle  headquarters of its Russell Investment
Group unit for $480 million, the largest deal for a single
office building in the western U.S. since 2006.  The 42-story Russell Investments Center was purchased by
Los Angeles-based CommonWealth Partners, a closely held real
estate investor, Milwaukee-based Northwestern Mutual said in a
statement today. It bought the property in 2009 after the
collapse of previous owner  Washington Mutual  Inc., which had its
headquarters at the building.  Northwestern Mutual took advantage of investor demand for
high-quality, income-producing real estate. Office rents have
been rising and vacancies declining in coastal cities such as
Seattle, where job growth is outperforming other parts of the
country.  “The company’s real estate strategy typically focuses on
long-term holds,” Paul Hanson, the company’s managing director
for real estate, said in the statement. “However, the Seattle
market rebounded quickly, creating an excellent opportunity for
the company to realize a gain for our policy-owners.”  The 872,000-square-foot (81,000-square-meter) building is
about 95 percent occupied, up from less than 40 percent when
Northwestern Mutual paid $115 million for the  property , Mark
Lucius, a spokesman for the insurer, said in December, when the
tower was listed. The building was completed in 2006 at a cost
of about $370 million.  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) , based in  Los Angeles , was Northwestern
Mutual’s broker.  ‘Highly Unusual’  “There were 34 prospective buyer tours of the asset, which
is highly unusual for a deal of this size and demonstrates the
tremendous amount of capital that exists” for buildings in
central business districts, said Kevin Shannon, a CBRE vice
chairman who handled the sale. “This is especially true in
rising markets, like Seattle, that are experiencing strong job
growth resulting in aggressive rent growth.”  The property -- at 1301 Second Ave., next to the Seattle
Art Museum -- is known for its 17th floor garden terrace.  Northwestern Mutual bought the building from  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and filled it by moving Russell’s head office from Tacoma,
south of Seattle, and adding other corporate tenants. Occupants
include JPMorgan Chase,  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  and  Zillow Inc. (Z)  JPMorgan
acquired the assets of Washington Mutual after the government
seized the mortgage lender in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  