-- Novartis’s Gilenya MS Pill Gets New Safety Rules
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-04-20T15:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/novartis-s-gilenya-ms-pill-gets-new-safety-advice-from-eu.html
U.S. and European regulators placed
new safety precautions on the use of  Novartis AG’s (NOVN)  multiple-
sclerosis pill Gilenya following a three-month review triggered
by the deaths of 15 patients.  Doctors shouldn’t prescribe Gilenya to patients with a
history of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease or who
take heart-rate lowering medication, the European Medicines
Agency said today in a  statement . The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  set a similar rule, Novartis said in a separate
statement. When treatment with Gilenya is necessary in these
patients, their heart activity should be monitored at least
overnight after the first dose, the London-based EMA said.  “It’s certainly not any restriction of the label,”
Nicholas Turner, a London-based analyst for Mirabaud Securities,
said in a telephone interview today of the EU changes. “My
reading of it is that the EMA are endorsing the safety of
Gilenya. It’s not bad news for the medicine. If anything it’s
the opposite.” The same is true of the FDA changes, he said.  The pill is among the products Novartis is depending on as
patents start to expire on the company’s best-selling medicines,
including the hypertension drug Diovan. More than 36,000
patients worldwide have now taken Gilenya, according to
Novartis. For its review, the EU agency examined heart-safety
data on the medicine as well as reports of sudden or unexplained
deaths.  Treatment Option  Novartis shares rose 0.5 percent to close at 51.20 Swiss
francs in Zurich.  “We believe that Gilenya is a valuable treatment option
for many patients with relapsing remitting MS, and we welcome
the confirmation of the positive benefit-risk profile of the
drug, which also supports our continued belief of the
blockbuster potential of Gilenya,”  David Epstein , head of the
Basel, Switzerland-based company’s pharmaceutical division, said
in a statement about the EMA’s review.  The EU regulator also recommended that all patients
starting treatment with Gilenya should have their heart activity
monitored before receiving the first dose of the medicine and
continuously for at least six hours after. The FDA requires an
electrocardiogram before the first dose, and after the six-hour
first-dose observation period, the company said.  U.S. Death  Monitoring should be extended for at least two hours in
patients whose heart rate is lowest six hours after receiving
the first dose of Gilenya, the agency said. In patients who
develop significant heart problems such as a slow  heart rate  or
a problem with the conduction of electricity in the heart,
monitoring should continue at least overnight and until the
issues have been resolved.  Novartis said Dec. 12 that a U.S. patient died within 24
hours of starting treatment with Gilenya, triggering reviews by
the FDA and the EMA, which reported a further 10 deaths among
patients taking the medicine. Six of those deaths were
unexplained, three patients died of heart attacks and one due to
disruption of heart rhythm, the regulator said Jan. 20.  The EMA said today it looked at 15 cases of sudden or
unexplained deaths. “Most of the deaths and cardiovascular
problems had occurred in patients with a history of
cardiovascular problems or taking other medicines,” the
regulator said. “However, the data reviewed were not conclusive
as to whether Gilenya was the cause of the deaths.”  U.S. Approval  Gilenya was approved in the U.S. in 2010 as the first oral
treatment for multiple sclerosis, and cleared for sale in  Europe 
in March 2011. It’s been known since the drug was approved that
patients taking it may experience heart-rhythm disorders or a
short-lived drop in their heart rates, and warnings about those
risks were included on the label, the EMA said.  The drug earned Novartis $494 million last year and may
reach sales of $2.27 billion in 2016, according to the average
of seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  