-- NRC’s Jaczko Denies Mistreating Women, Confirms Watchdog Report
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-04-20T20:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/nrc-s-jaczko-denies-mistreating-women-confirms-watchdog-report.html
U.S.  Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
Chairman  Gregory Jaczko , whose management style has been
criticized, denied allegations that he mistreats female
colleagues while saying the agency’s inspector general is
preparing another report.  “I categorically deny any accusations that I mistreat
women at the agency,” he said at a news conference in
Washington today, without specifying the nature of the
accusations. He acknowledged that the agency’s inspector general
is preparing a report, but would not provide details.  “That’s not something I have anything to do with,” he
said. Joseph McMillan, NRC assistant inspector general for
investigations, declined to comment. The Office of Inspector
General is the internal watchdog for the agency.  The hastily called press conference followed reports
President  Barack Obama  intends to renominate Commissioner
Kristine Svinicki, a Republican, to a five-year term. Svinicki
last year joined colleagues in complaining about Jaczko’s
management of the agency, accusing him of bullying employees.  “There’s a number of allegations that I think have been
floating around, and I just wanted to once and for all make a
firm statement about that,” he said.  ‘Verbal Assault’  Jaczko aimed a “raging verbal assault” at three female
agency staff members in separate encounters, NRC Commissioner
William Magwood told the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee in December, a charge that the NRC chairman then
denied.  Svinicki’s tenure as commissioner expires at the end of
June. Jaczko wouldn’t say whether he supports her for another
term.  “I will be comfortable working with any member of the
commission that makes it through the process of nomination and
confirmation,” said Jaczko, whose term ends in June 2013.  A previous report by the agency’s inspector general
criticized Jaczko for his interaction with other commissioners.
That report, issued June 6, alleged Jaczko improperly ended
consideration of a proposed nuclear-waste disposal facility at
Yucca Mountain in  Nevada . Jaczko denied any wrongdoing.  Former Reid Aide  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat who
opposes Svinicki’s renomination, is engaging in “a bullying
smear campaign against the Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s only
female commissioner in what is clearly an effort to retaliate
against her decision to speak up for the agency’s employees,”
Representative Ann Marie Buerkle, a New York Republican, said in
a statement yesterday.  Adam Jentleson, a Reid spokesman, declined to respond
yesterday to Buerkle’s comments. The Nevada senator opposes the
renomination because Svinicki was not truthful during her 2007
confirmation hearing about her work on the Yucca project,
Jentleson has said.  Jaczko directed the NRC to stop work on Yucca Mountain
after Obama canceled funding for the project. Jaczko previously
worked for Reid, a Yucca opponent, as appropriations director
and a science adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  