-- Obama Campaigns for Congressional Action on Student Loan Rates
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-04-21T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/obama-campaigns-to-press-congress-on-freezing-college-loan-rate.html
President  Barack Obama  is pressing
Congress to freeze interest rates on U.S. student loans, putting
the spotlight on an issue with appeal to the middle-income and
younger voters who are crucial to his re-election strategy.  Interest rates on federally-subsidized Stafford loans are
scheduled to increase to 6.8 percent on July 1 from 3.4 percent.
The rate increase would affect about 7.4 million students,
according to the White House.  “In America, higher education cannot be a luxury,” Obama
said in his weekly radio address. “It’s an economic imperative
that every family must be able to afford.”  The president proposed Congress act to freeze the rates in
his fiscal 2013 budget. The  Congressional Budget Office 
estimates the one-year freeze would cost $6 billion.  Obama will lobby for action in front of college audiences
in the battleground states of  North Carolina ,  Iowa  and  Colorado 
next week. He will also make an April 24 appearance on the NBC
television program “Late Night With  Jimmy Fallon ” to reach a
wider audience of young voters.  Obama has framed his re-election message to highlight
differences with Republicans on budget priorities. Over the past
month, he has talked about his plans to maintain federal support
for education, infrastructure and development of alternative
energy while accusing his opponents of sacrificing those
programs to provide tax cuts for top earners.  November Election  The president’s political advisers have said they expect a
close race against presumptive Republican nominee  Mitt Romney ,
the former governor of  Massachusetts .  In the 2008 election, voters in the 18-24 age group
supported Obama 66 percent to 32 percent for Republican
presidential nominee  John McCain , national exit polls showed.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday
Obama’s two-day trip next week is for “official events” to
talk about policy rather than politics.  If the president were to stay out of battleground states in
an election year, “he would be severely restricting his ability
to go to big parts of the country,” Carney said.  Obama said in his radio address that keeping student loan
rates low is “a question of values.”  “We’ve got to build an economy where everyone gets a fair
shot, everyone does their fair share and everyone plays by the
same set of rules,” Obama said, repeating a theme that has been
a part of his speeches this year.  Republicans Respond  In the weekly Republican  radio address , Senator  Roy Blunt 
of  Missouri  said rising energy costs are a more immediate
concern for voters.  “If we’re going to talk about economic fairness, or about
fairness, one of the most pressing economic issues facing
families, seniors and job creators in Missouri and across
America is the strain of skyrocketing gas prices,” Blunt said.  The average cost of tuition and fees at a public, four-year
college has almost tripled since the 1995-1996 academic year and
has more than doubled for a private school education, according
to data from the  College Board , a New York-based nonprofit group
whose members include universities.  Educational-loan debt has ballooned to $1 trillion,
surpassing the amount owed on credit cards in the U.S.,
according to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  “We have an immediate crisis,” Education Secretary Arne Duncan said at yesterday’s White House briefing. “College has
to be affordable for the middle class and for people who aspire
to be middle class.”  Options on Cost  U.S. Representative  John Kline , chairman of the House
Education and Workforce Committee, said “lofty campaign
promises” have put lawmakers in a bind.  “We must now choose between allowing  interest rates  to
rise or piling billions of dollars on the backs of taxpayers,”
the Minnesota Republican said in a statement. “I have serious
concerns about any proposal that simply kicks the can down the
road and creates more uncertainty in the long run.”  Kline said House lawmakers are “exploring options” that
would pay for the $6 billion in costs in a way that “serves
borrowers and taxpayers equally well.”  Undergraduates can utilize two types of Stafford federal
loans based on their families’ ability to pay for college. With
subsidized loans, the government pays the interest while the
student is in school and for a six-month grace period after
graduation. For this academic year, the rate for that loan is
3.4 percent, and would double on July 1 unless Congress acts.  There is no income requirement for unsubsidized loans,
where students pay the interest during school or it accrues. The
rate is 6.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  