-- Obama Due No Credit for Virginia Economy, McDonnell Says
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-04-21T04:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/obama-due-no-credit-for-virginia-economy-mcdonnell-says.html
Governor Bob McDonnell of  Virginia 
said President  Barack Obama  can’t take credit for the state’s
5.6 percent jobless rate, though he deserves blame for the
national rate of 8.2 percent.  McDonnell, a Republican viewed as a possible running mate
for presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , said bipartisan, pro-
business policies enacted by Virginia’s legislature are more
responsible for the state’s economic recovery than anything the
Democratic president has done.  “Our state policies and our great free enterprise
leaders” are “some reasons why Virginia is doing better,” he
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital With Al Hunt” airing this weekend.  Obama, whose 2008 victory in Virginia helped secure his
election as president, can’t claim credit for the state’s return
to prosperity “as long as the  unemployment rate  nationally
remains over 8.2 percent,” the governor said. That “is just
unacceptable,” he said.  “We’d be better off with somebody who actually knows how
to create jobs and who will actually take decisive action to get
us out of debt,” McDonnell said.  On immigration issues, McDonnell, whose party is trailing
in support among Hispanic voters nationally, said undocumented
aliens who “have fought for our country” should get “some
special consideration” of their legal status. The governor
wouldn’t say if he would give these military veterans a pathway
to citizenship.  ‘Haven’t Gotten Caught’  The U.S. shouldn’t tell people that “if you come here for
some period of time and just because you haven’t gotten caught
that we should automatically allow you to become a citizen,” he
said.  McDonnell dismissed the significance of polls showing that
Romney, who has opposed a pathway to citizenship for
undocumented aliens as “amnesty,” lags behind Obama in support
among Hispanic voters. An NBC-Wall Street Journal poll conducted
April 13-17 showed that Obama led among Latino voters by 69
percent to 22 percent.  During the Republican primary campaign, Romney took a hard
line on immigration, criticizing Texas Governor  Rick Perry  for
advocating in-state college tuition breaks for the children of
undocumented aliens. Romney opposed legislation favored by Obama
to give legal residency to the children of undocumented aliens
after they perform military service or go to college.  Romney is lagging among Hispanic voters because they don’t
yet know what his policies are, McDonnell said. In Virginia, the
gap will “tighten up dramatically” as Hispanic voters respond
to Romney’s proposals to create economic opportunity by cutting
taxes and reducing  government regulation , the governor said.  Hard Working  “They’re hard working, they want opportunities in small
business” so “the more they hear from him, the better Mitt
Romney does,” McDonnell said.  Virginia’s Latino voters also will respond to Romney
because they “primarily are Catholic, so they’re pro-family,
they’re pro-life,” said McDonnell, who in March signed a law
requiring women seeking an abortion to undergo an abdominal
ultrasound exam.  The law will make sure “a woman gets all the medical and
clinical and legal information she needs before she makes
perhaps the most important decision of her life,” he said.  McDonnell had backed away from an earlier proposal to
require a more medically invasive, trans-vaginal test. He said
the measure he signed strikes “the right balance” and puts
Virginia in sync with 23 other states that have similar
requirements.  The new law doesn’t invade women’s privacy because “these
ultrasounds are already required for medical reasons to
determine gestational age,” McDonnell said. “So that really
wasn’t the important part of the bill.”  He called the measure just “one bill out of 860” passed
by the Virginia legislature. “Most of what we focused on was
jobs and schools and roads and energy, the kitchen-table issues
that men and women in Virginia care about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  