-- Lockheed Increases Lobbying as Defense Cutbacks Threaten
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-04-20T19:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/lockheed-increases-lobbying-as-defense-cutbacks-threaten.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world
largest defense contractor, increased its lobbying spending in
Washington by 25 percent as it worked to defeat looming cuts of
$500 billion to the Pentagon’s budget.  The company spent $3.96 million on lobbying in the first
quarter compared with the same period last year, according to
lobbying disclosure data filed with the  U.S. Senate  and posted
today on its website.  The company also reported for the first time that it was
actively lobbying against the $500 billion in sequestration,
automatic cuts to the  defense budget  set to begin in January
because Congress and President Barack Obama failed to agree on
ways to reduce the federal deficit.  The prospect of cuts is having a “chilling effect” on the
defense industry, Robert Stevens, Lockheed Martin’s chairman and
chief executive, said in March at an event on  Capitol Hill . The
company and other defense contractors may stop training programs
and filling jobs, he said.  “We are not going to hire,” Stevens said. “We are not
going to make speculative investments. We are not going to lean
forward. We are not going to invest in incremental training.”  The Bethesda, Maryland-based company already has been
paring back for an era of reduced defense spending. In July, it
offered a voluntary separation plan to all 6,500 employees on
its salaried U.S. corporate staff, predicting about 2 percent
would take the offer. Lockheed previously had announced 3,850
job cuts starting in 2010.  Lockheed had about 123,000 employees at the end of last
year, according to a company filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Boeing Co. (BA) , the world’s largest aerospace company,
increased its spending 1.2 percent to $4.1 million in the first
quarter. Chicago-based Boeing listed sequestration among the
topics for its lobbying, as it had done in its year-end filing.  Lockheed Martin,  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and  Raytheon Co. (RTN) 
spent a combined $33.4 million on lobbying in Washington last
year, a 10 percent increase from 2010, as Congress and the Obama
administration weighed cuts in the Pentagon budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  