-- Oi Bets on Bundled Services After Stock Drops to 6-Year Low
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-04-20T20:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/oi-bets-on-bundled-services-after-stock-declines-to-six-year-low.html
Oi SA (OIBR4) , the Brazilian phone company
that sank to the lowest since 2006 last week, will gain market
share as the newly formed telecommunications group offers
bundled service at discounts, its chief executive officer said.  New clients will opt for Oi’s broadband, landline,
television and mobile services, the so-called quadruple play,
after the company merged units to be able to offer bundled deals
that competitors Vivo Participacoes SA and  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) 
can’t match, Francisco Valim said in an interview today at
Bloomberg headquarters today in New York.  “With the quadruple play price advertising, our pool is
increasing,” Valim, 48, said. The company is looking to gain
its “fair share of the market,” he added.  The company, Brazil’s third-biggest phone-service provider
by market value, merged three separate units under the brand Oi
this month. It  sank  23 percent on March 30 after a $1.5 billion
share buyback as part of the restructuring. The merger also
boosted the number of shares outstanding under the former Brasil
Telecom ticker now trading as Oi, hurting the stock.  The shares rose 1.6 percent today to 9.70 reais in  Sao
Paulo .  “It’s a fresh start. We’re starting from scratch,” Valim
said. “We’re not trying to be first, we’re trying to be the
preferred telecom company.”  Market Share  In the mobile market, Oi aims to boost its market share to
25 percent in the next four years from 19 percent, he said. With
the mobile-phone market continuing to grow at a 19 percent
annual clip, Oi can gain in the market simply by adding new
customers faster than its competitors do, rather than luring
rivals’ clients away, he said.  “We don’t have to be stealing new customers,” Valim said.
“We don’t have to fight so fearfully.”  Brazil  had 251 million wireless subscriptions at the end of
March, according to government statistics, more than the
country’s population of about 210 million. That’s because
Brazilians often buy lines from multiple carriers to make
cheaper calls, since companies charge more to connect users to
their rivals’ customers.  With the low-income population moving into the middle
class, there’s going to be more spending, which will help Oi
boost its market share, Valim said. “We see a clear trend
toward more consumption,” he said. “We don’t anticipate any
contraction in the economy.”  The merger combined Tele Norte Leste Participacoes SA,
Telemar Norte Leste SA and Brasil Telecom SA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  