-- Oil Rises First Time in Three Days on German Confidence
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-04-20T12:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/oil-rises-first-time-in-three-days-as-german-confidence-improves.html
Oil rose for the first time in
three days in  New York , erasing this week’s decline, after
German business confidence unexpectedly increased.  Futures gained as much as 1.1 percent after the Munich-
based Ifo institute said today its  business climate index , based
on a survey of 7,000 executives, rose to 109.9 from 109.8 in
March. Economists forecast a drop to 109.5, according to the
median of 40 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Oil may
resume its decline next week on speculation that the U.S.
economic recovery will slow, reducing demand for crude, and
tension with Iran will ease, a Bloomberg survey showed.  “Commodity markets are watching developments in  Europe ,”
said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London.
“Oil is rebounding off of last night’s lows, benefiting a bit
from the German confidence index. Prices are likely to
consolidate around current levels in macro-dominated trading.”  Crude for May delivery rose as much as $1.12 to $103.39 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $103.34 as of 1:39 p.m. London time. It fell to
$102.27 yesterday, the lowest close since April 10. The May
contract, which expires today, is up 0.5 percent this week. The
more-actively traded June future rose $1.02 to $103.74 a barrel.  Brent oil for June settlement was at $118.98 a barrel, up
98 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate
was at $15.24, compared with $15.28 yesterday.  Decline May Resume  Seventeen of 30 analysts in Bloomberg’s survey forecast
prices will decline through April 27 amid signs the U.S. economy
may be slowing and tension with  Iran  over its nuclear program
may ease. Seven respondents predicted they will rise and six
estimated there will be little change.  Negotiators from Iran, the five permanent members of the
 United Nations Security Council  and  Germany  will meet in  Baghdad 
on May 23 to discuss the Persian Gulf nation’s alleged efforts
to develop nuclear weapons, a claim it denies. The parties met
in Istanbul on April 14 for the first talks in 15 months.  Iranian Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi said yesterday that he
hoped for “good news” from the meeting, according to Shana, an
oil ministry news website. Further European Union sanctions will
affect global energy-supply security and crude prices, he said.
The EU plans to put sanctions on Iran’s energy industry into
effect July 1.  “People are beginning to wind back their  risk premium 
associated with Iran,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst
at CMC Markets in Sydney. “The  U.S. economy  is bubbling along
but it’s not really giving people the sense that the momentum
will have an upward trajectory from here.”  Nymex Margin Requirement  The New York Mercantile Exchange cut the margin requirement
on a series of crude spreads two days after President  Barack Obama  called for an increase to reduce speculative activity by
traders. The new rules governing the amount of money investors
must put up to back bets on Nymex’s light, sweet crude and Brent
spreads will be effective at the close of business April 23, CME
Group Inc., the exchange’s parent company, said yesterday.  The changes don’t apply directly to the Nymex oil futures
and options contracts, the most actively traded instruments for
crude on the exchange. They are specifically for commodity
spreads through which a trader can take a position on two linked
contracts, said Damon Leavell, a CME spokesman in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  