-- Hollywood Studios Lose Australia Lawsuit Over Downloads
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-04-20T06:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/hollywood-studios-lose-australia-lawsuit-over-downloads.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s
 Paramount Pictures  are among Hollywood’s biggest movie studios
that lost a piracy lawsuit in Australia as the country’s top
court upheld rulings that a local Internet provider wasn’t
responsible for customers illegally downloading films.  Iinet Ltd., based in Perth, didn’t authorize the
infringement when customers illegally downloaded pirated copies
of movies, the High Court of Australia ruled, according to a
summary of the decision released on the court’s  website.   Village Roadshow Ltd. (VRL) ’s Roadshow Films led the companies
trying to stop  iiNet  customers from using BitTorrent software to
illegally download copyrighted films, in a precedent-setting
case for  Internet providers  in Australia. The studios were
appealing earlier court decisions vindicating  iiNet (IIN) , and seeking
damages that they said could include royalties on illegally
downloaded movies.  “It was a case where the motion picture studios wanted to
expand the scope of what it means to authorize an
infringement,”  John Swinson , an intellectual property lawyer at
King & Wood Mallesons in Brisbane, said following today’s
ruling. “This leaves the movie studios with one less option”
to pursue infringement.  King & Wood Mallesons wasn’t involved in the iiNet case,
Swinson said.  Shares Rise  IiNet shares, which resumed trading after a halt ahead of
today’s judgment, gained 3 percent, the most since Jan. 10, to
A$3.12 at the close on the Australian Stock Exchange. The
benchmark S&P/ASX200 index declined 0.1 percent.  The Australian government agreed to review the Copyright
Act after Singtel Optus Ltd. was cleared by a judge of
wrongdoing in letting its customers watch downloads of
Australian Football League and National Rugby League games on
mobile devices, sometimes within minutes of the live action on
free-to-air television.  Jill McKeough , dean of law at the University of Technology
Sydney, heads the Australian Law Reform Commission undertaking
the review to determine if the legislation needs changing.  Issues of copyright should be dealt with through
legislation, rather than the courts, Swinson said.  Tony Bannon, a lawyer representing the film studios, cited
a case of an iiNet customer downloading a copy of “Pineapple
Express” in 2008, which could be identified from the BitTorrent
application information. Iinet failed to warn its customers that
downloading unauthorized content was illegal, Bannon told the
five-member  High Court  panel at a Dec. 1 hearing.  No Warning  “Without providing a warning of some form, they are
authorizing,” Bannon said, referring to the Internet provider.  IiNet takes a lot of steps to encourage people to use
legitimate content,  Richard Cobden , the company’s lawyer, told
the court at the same hearing.  “People conceivably do not mind spending a little bit of
money,” Cobden said. “If the thing is available as an
authentic item, they will download it.”  The Internet provider has an agreement with Apple Inc.’s
iTunes, for example, that lets customers download films without
affecting their monthly download allowance, Cobden said.  An appeal court last year upheld Justice Dennis Cowdroy’s
2010 verdict that iiNet wasn’t liable.  ‘Never Supported’  The High Court judgment supported the company’s position
and proved the studios’ claims were unfounded, iiNet Chief
Executive Officer Michael Malone said today.  “Iinet has never supported or encouraged unauthorized
sharing or file downloading,” Malone said in an e-mailed
 statement .  Also appealing were  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc., Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp., a unit of
 News Corp. (NWSA) , and 30 other entities who owned or had exclusive
licenses to commercially released films.  A proposal by the film studios to force Internet providers
to monitor customers’ usage and cut them off for illegally
downloading copyrighted material was both too narrow and too
broad, Swinson said.  It was too narrow because users could switch providers and
continue to download and too broad because it could penalize
customers whose children may inadvertently download material, he
said.  “It’s overkill and ineffective,” Swinson said.  The  case  is Roadshow Films Pty. Ltd. v iiNet
Ltd.2011/HCATrans 323, High Court of  Australia  (Canberra.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  