-- Olympus Wins Shareholder Approval for New Board After Fraud
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-04-20T08:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/olympus-wins-shareholder-approval-for-new-board-after-fraud.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  won shareholders’
approval for new management headed by former banker Yasuyuki Kimoto, a step toward putting behind an accounting fraud that
wiped $4.2 billion off its market value.  The Japanese camera maker gained the most in almost three
months in  Tokyo  trading after shareholders elected 11 directors,
including Kimoto, who is a former executive at main lender
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , and Hiroyuki Sasa, who
headed the company’s medical systems marketing unit. The new
board appointed Kimoto as chairman and named Sasa president.  The world’s largest endoscope maker has lost almost half
its market  value  since dismissing then-President  Michael Woodford  on Oct. 14, after he questioned inflated fees paid to
advisory firms for takeovers. Overseas  shareholders  including
Southeastern Asset Management Inc. called for more independent
board nominees, saying some have conflicts of interest because
of their ties to Olympus creditors.  “The approval is positive since all events related to
instability of management will be solved,” said  Kenichi Hirano ,
general manager and strategist at Tachibana Securities Co. in
Tokyo. Still, “it is difficult to expect a continuous gain in
shares as investors will start to look at fundamentals.”  Olympus rose 6.4 percent, the most since Jan. 23, to 1,286
yen at the close of trading in Tokyo. The shares have gained 27
percent this year, after plunging 59 percent last year.  Proxy Advisory  Shareholders also approved a correction of the company’s
financial statements dating back to 2006.  ISS Proxy Advisory Services recommended shareholders vote
against three nominees -- Kimoto, Hideaki Fujitsuka, a former
executive at Mitsubishi Bank, which is now part of Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group Inc., and Masashi Shimizu, an executive at
Nippon Life Insurance Co., who was nominated as a statutory
auditor. Nippon Life is the No. 4 shareholder with a 4.9 percent
stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I’ve seen the careers and other backgrounds of the
members of the new management and believe they are the right
people to run the company,” Yoshinobu Tsutsui, president of
Nippon Life, told reporters in Tokyo today. “Olympus paved its
way for its rebirth today.”  ISS also recommended voting against Sasa, saying he lacked
the experience to lead the company after it admitted to a 13-
year cover-up of losses. The adviser said shareholders should
reject the corrected financial statements because approving them
“would not be appropriate at a time when the findings of
investigations by public entities are not yet available.”  Executives Prosecuted  Olympus and six individuals were indicted by prosecutors
for falsifying securities reports last month. Former Chairman
Tsuyoshi Kikukawa, former Executive Vice President Hisashi Mori
and ex-auditing officer Hideo Yamada were prosecuted. The three
were arrested in February for suspected violation of  Japan ’s
Financial Instruments and Exchange Act.  “Japan has a particular problem in relation to its
corporate sector,” Woodford said.  Prosecutors also indicted Akio Nakagawa, Nobumasa Yokoo --
both cited in a December panel report as having aided Olympus in
structuring its loss-hiding proposals -- and Taku Hada, who was
arrested in February.  Nine Olympus shareholders including Southeastern and Harris
Associates LP called for more independent directors in a March
21 joint statement. Hideaki Fujizuka, a former executive at
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , another Olympus creditor,
was nominated as a director after President Shuichi Takayama and
all other board members offered in February to resign.  ‘Undue Influence’  Southeastern, once the largest foreign stake owner, has
signaled it will exit its holdings in a blow to Japan’s
attraction as an investment destination.  The connection between Olympus’s main banks and some
proposed board members “gives rise to a potential conflict of
interest,” the investors said in the March 21 statement. The
group expressed “disappointment” at the “apparent willingness
to grant banking interests undue influence.”  Josh Shores, senior analyst and principal at Southeastern,
and David Herro, chief investment officer at Chicago-based
Harris, didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comments before
today’s meeting.  At least two current board members, Executive Officer
Shinichi Nishigaki and Executive Managing Officer Kazuhiro Watanabe, will remain division heads at Olympus, an official at
the Tokyo-based company said earlier this week.  The company also named Akihiro Nambu, who was head of
 investor relations , to run its financial division. Southeastern
Asset and other shareholders called for him to resign over the
accounting fraud to conceal investment losses.  ‘It’s Outrageous’  Olympus has tumbled 48 percent in Tokyo trading since
Woodford was dismissed Oct. 14 after challenging then-Chairman
Kikukawa and the board over the inflated takeover payments.  “I lost millions of yen on Olympus shares,” Kennichi
Yamashita, an 85-year-old shareholder from Tokyo, said after
today’s meeting. “I voted against all the resolutions because
of what happened. It’s outrageous.”  Olympus sued 19 current and former executives, including
Takayama and five corporate auditors, in January over their
roles in concealing losses. Authorities in the U.S. and U.K.
have also investigated Olympus for a cover-up that involved
inflating fees to advisers on the $2.1 billion acquisition of
London-listed Gyrus Group Plc in 2008 and overpaying for three
Japanese companies.  Full-Year Loss  Olympus  predicted  its first  annual loss  in three years for
the fiscal year ended March 31 after flooding in  Thailand 
damaged its equipment. The net loss may total 32 billion yen
($392 million), it said in February.  Sales at the company’s medical systems division, which
account for more than 40 percent of its revenue, increased 2.7
percent in the three months ended Dec. 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company will report earnings May 10.  Olympus’s  net assets  fell to 43.8 billion yen as of Dec. 31
from 151 billion yen as of June 30, after restating its earnings
statements, according to its financial statements.  “Olympus is fundamentally a healthy business,”
Southeastern and other investors said in the March 21 statement.
“Olympus’s financial difficulties are temporary,” and the
company would be able to generate at least 50 billion yen of
 cash flow  a year with “a qualified management team,” they
said.  Founded in 1919 as a microscope and thermometer business,
Olympus produced its first camera in 1936, according to its
website. The company controls 75 percent of the global market
for endoscopes, instruments used to look inside the body’s
cavities to help detect disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  