-- Home Capital Wins Mortgages as Canada Banks Retreat
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-04-20T13:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/home-capital-wins-mortgages-as-canada-banks-retreat.html
Home Capital Group Inc. (HCG)  said it’s
capturing mortgage business from Canadian lenders including
Toronto-Dominion Bank and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
that are retreating from the C$200 billion ($201 billion)
nonprime market amid signs of a housing downturn.  “The big banks are sort of juggling around their mortgage
strategy and as part of that, they’re tightening up in certain
areas,” Home Capital President Martin Reid said in an
interview. “We’re seeing some of the fallout.”  Canada’s banks have been exercising more caution on higher-
risk mortgages after Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  warned
that record household debt remains the biggest domestic risk to
the economy. Carney this week signaled the potential for
interest rate increases that would cool off a housing market
that has seen prices almost triple in some Canadian cities over
the past decade.  “While  interest rates  have been at historic lows recently,
the inevitable climb looks to be coming as soon as next year,”
said Katie Archdekin, head of mortgage products at  Bank of
Montreal , the country’s fourth-biggest bank.  Home Capital, the Toronto-based mortgage lender, targets
the C$200 billion Alt-A market -- uninsured loans to home buyers
who often don’t qualify at chartered banks because of their work
history or other circumstances. Their clients include self-
employed workers and new immigrants to Canada. Higher revenue
from loans rejected by banks will add to earnings in Home
Capital’s first-quarter  results , to be released on May 2.  Credit Scale  “We see opportunities with people that are really high-
caliber borrowers with good proof of income, but their
circumstances are a little different,” said Chief Executive
Officer Gerald Soloway, who was interviewed with Reid. “We
haven’t had to go down the credit scale; we’ve been able to go
up the credit scale, which is an unusual phenomenon.”  Banks are paring back loans to below prime borrowers amid
signs that housing prices are starting to fall. The  Canadian
Real Estate Association   said  April 16 that prices in Canada
dropped 1.7 percent in March from the previous month, led by a
3.1 percent decline in  Vancouver . Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty 
said he’s “encouraged” by signs of a housing correction in
Vancouver, preferring the market to “correct itself” without
government intervention.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , the country’s second-largest lender,
stopped originating non-prime residential mortgages as of March
31, spokesman  Mohammed Nakhooda  said. The loans, offered through
TD Financing Services Home Inc., represented about 0.2 percent
of the bank’s mortgage portfolio.  Risk Appetite  “This decision was based on a number of factors, including
a regular review of our secured lending risk management
strategies,” Nakhooda said. “To remain competitive in the
business in the current environment would require us to increase
our risk profile, something we concluded was no longer in our
risk appetite.”  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce , the country’s fifth-
largest bank, said in March it was considering the sale of its
FirstLine Mortgages broker. The bank said it wants to shift
mortgage renewals into its branch network, where it can sell
more products.  Increased risk management has led some banks to reject
loans, Reid said.  “Two years ago, they wouldn’t have turned that deal
down,” said Reid, 52.  Non-Prime  An influx of non-prime lending will benefit Home Capital,
Soloway said. The company is expected to earn C$1.50 a share
before one-time items in the first quarter, up from C$1.24 a
share a year earlier, according to the average  estimate  of six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “We have had a very good first quarter,” said Soloway,
who has been CEO for 25 years. “There’s not going to be any
surprises, up or down.”  Home Capital focuses on the non-prime market because it can
charge a higher premium for loans than most banks after doing
more legwork on potential borrowers before approving home loans.
The company said it has about 2.5 percent market share of such
loans, making it the largest provider in Canada.  “There’s a little bit of premium, but in some cases, it’s
not very much,” said Soloway, 73.  The record consumer debt levels and potential for housing
price declines prompted  Fitch Ratings  on April 9 to revise Home
Capital’s credit outlook to negative from stable.  Emerging Concerns  The revision “is based on emerging concerns regarding home
price valuations and household debt levels in Canada, which
given HCG’s focus on non-conventional borrowers could
potentially translate into increased credit costs,” the ratings
company said in a statement.  Home Capital had record  profit  of C$190.1 million last year
and adjusted return on equity of 27 percent. It was the 14th-
straight year the company had a return on equity of 20 percent
or higher.  “There is an opportunity for the company to increase its
market share without lowering its standards for  credit
quality ,” said Bryan Brown, an analyst at Macquarie Capital
Markets in Toronto. He rates Home Capital shares neutral.  Home Capital’s net impaired loans to gross loans were 0.25
percent at the end of last year, indicating the higher-risk
borrowers haven’t led to higher credit losses, according to
Fitch’s report. Insured mortgages, which are securitized through
 Canada  Mortgage and Housing Corp. bonds, account for 56 percent
of Home Capital’s mortgage book, Fitch said.  Profit Outlook  Home Capital fell less than 1 percent to C$49.63 in 9:49
a.m. trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The shares had risen
1.7 percent this year, trailing the 9.6 percent gain in the
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Financials Index.  The company forecast in its  annual report  that 2012 profit
will climb between 13 percent and 18 percent, while total loans
will rise within the same percentage range.  The other factor that will contribute to first-quarter
earnings is a resilient Canadian housing market, Soloway said,
dismissing the notion that Canada is in a housing bubble.  “I don’t think there is any sign anywhere from people on
the ground in Canada that foresees the bubble,” said Soloway.
Economists predicting a collapse in Canada “have been wrong for
years; my prediction is that they’re going to be permanently
wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  