-- Mortgage-Tax Break Curbed by Housing Slump
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-04-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/mortgage-tax-break-curbed-by-housing-slump-as-states-get-reward.html
The cost of one of the country’s
most expensive individual tax breaks is shrinking as the number
of Americans who own homes declines and  mortgage rates  hover
near historic lows.  Federal tax filers claimed almost $71 billion less in
mortgage interest deductions for 2009 than for 2007, a 14
percent drop, according to the  Internal Revenue Service . That
trend continued in 2010, the IRS said in a  report  last month, as
preliminary data showed that lower  interest rates , home
ownership and  home prices  curbed use of the tax deduction by 7.2
percent.  “People are walking away and losing their homes and they
no longer have the mortgage interest deductions,” said Andrew
Hanson, an assistant professor of economics at  Georgia State
University  who has researched the tax break. “That’s got to be
a big part of it.”  Tax revenue fell as unemployment rose during the most
severe recession since the 1930s, and the housing market was
shaken by 16 million foreclosures since 2007. On the flip side
were gains from declining use of the mortgage deduction, saving
the U.S. government $13 billion to $26 billion from 2007 to
2010, according to an estimate from Hanson.  The effects extend to states, more than half of which allow
the deductions either on their own or through use of federal
itemization. In Arizona, officials say less use of such
deductions was behind an 8 percent rise in tax liability for
state residents in 2010 even as unemployment climbed to 10.8
percent that year.  Home Ownership  The home ownership rate in the U.S. dropped from a peak of
69.2 percent in 2004 to 65.9 percent in the second quarter of
2011, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Median  home prices 
fell more than 30 percent from July 2006 to January, according
to data from the National Association of Realtors.  The average interest rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage was
3.90 percent for the week of April 19, down from 6.17 percent in
December 2007 at the start of the U.S. recession, according to
data provided by  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)  Average  mortgage rates  reached a
record low of 3.87 percent on Feb. 2, the data show.  The mortgage interest deduction is projected to cost the
federal government $464 billion in forgone revenue from 2011 to
2015, according to the congressional Joint Committee on
Taxation.  Proposed for Elimination  While popular with U.S. taxpayers, the deduction is often
proposed for elimination by those seeking to reduce the federal
 budget deficit . The fiscal commissions of two presidents in 2005
and 2010 recommended scaling it back and replacing it with a tax
credit. President  Barack Obama ’s budget proposal for fiscal 2013
would impose a cap that would limit the benefit of tax breaks,
including the mortgage interest deduction, for high-income
taxpayers.  Kansas Governor  Sam Brownback , a Republican, and Maryland
Governor  Martin O’Malley , a Democrat, are among state officials
who have called for eliminating or reducing the deduction at the
state level. Brownback’s proposal to eliminate the tax break
stalled in the state legislature. O’Malley’s plan to reduce the
deduction for wealthy taxpayers led to protests from real estate
agents, who said such a proposal would make it tougher for
people to own a home.  At the federal level, the deduction is allowed for interest
on mortgages up to $1 million for both primary and secondary
residences. Only taxpayers who itemize can take the deduction.
Some economists maintain that the deduction disproportionately
benefits the wealthy and spurs people to take on more debt.  Encourages ‘Bigger Homes’  “Most economists don’t like it,” said Kim Rueben, senior
fellow at the  Tax Policy Center  in  Washington , a nonpartisan
research group, noting that there is little evidence that the
tax break spurs home ownership.  “We are effectively encouraging people to buy bigger homes
and take out debt because we are allowing them to deduct
interest,” Rueben said.  David Albouy, assistant professor of economics at the
 University of Michigan , says the deduction along with subprime
lending are responsible for pushing people into homes they
otherwise couldn’t afford. The decline in homeownership and,
subsequently, the drop in the use of the deduction may be the
home market righting itself, he said.  ‘Fuel the Bubble’  “The mortgage interest deduction helped fuel the bubble,”
he said. “As people were buying these giant houses, they were
claiming a giant portion of their income in mortgage interest.
Now they are losing that. They are now not billing the
government indirectly for their risky investment in real
estate.”  The use of the mortgage interest deduction peaked at the
federal level in 2007 with the tax break showing up on 40.8
million returns. That fell to 36.5 million for 2009, according
to the IRS. The amount deducted declined from $491 billion to
$421 billion for those tax years.  Preliminary data shows the number of returns on which
taxpayers claimed the deduction increased slightly to 36.9
million in 2010. The amount of the write-offs fell to $387
billion.  “One of the most striking things about the itemized
deductions in the last few years is the decline in the number of
people claiming this deduction,” said Matthew Gardner,
 executive director  for the Institute on Taxation and Economic
Policy, a Washington-based nonprofit research group. “You’re
seeing five million fewer returns between 2007 and 2009 claiming
the deduction -- it is a real drop.”  Confusing Trend  In  Arizona , which has had the second highest foreclosure
rate in the nation for the past three years, an economist in the
Revenue Department stumbled across a confusing trend: income tax
liability jumped in 2010 even as joblessness remained high.  “My first thought was: taxable income, why would that be
up if people are losing jobs and unemployed?” said Karen
Jacobs, a senior economist in the department. She discovered
that the value of all itemized deductions, including that for
mortgage interest, was down 20 percent.  One Arizona resident, Stephen Buckman, said he saw the
effect of losing his home when he figured out his 2011 taxes.
Buckman was working in commercial real estate in Phoenix when
the market collapsed. His work dried up as the value of his
townhouse plunged 75 percent from $196,000 when he bought it in
2006 to less than $50,000. It was foreclosed in December 2010.  “I was shocked about how much I owed,” Buckman, 38, said
in a telephone interview about his 2011 tax bill. He owed an
additional $1,500, which he attributes to the loss of his
mortgage interest deduction. Buckman now rents a townhouse in
Tempe, where he is working on his Ph.D. in geography at  Arizona
State University . “That was a deduction I couldn’t take, so I
owed a lot more money than I usually owe.”  Unanticipated State Revenue  Arizona Governor Jan Brewer’s budget director, John Arnold,
said fewer deductions led to about $170 million in unanticipated
revenue for fiscal year 2011. Arizona closed its budget year in
June with a balance of $3.2 million, compared with a $332
million deficit that had been forecast, according to a report by
the Joint Legislative Budget Committee.  “We’re in a  budget crisis  and an extra $170 million shows
up,” Arnold said, noting that the state’s total tax revenue
fell $3 billion from 2007 to 2010. “We understand that is the
result of people losing their homes. If I could say it was the
result of people refinancing, we’d be all smiles.”  A detailed breakdown of 2010 deductions isn’t available.
The number of Arizona returns on which the tax break was claimed
for 2009 fell 8 percent from the peak in 2007, dropping below
the 2004 level, Jacobs said. The amount of the write-offs
plunged 26 percent, from $13.5 billion to $9.96 billion. Jacobs
estimates that this led to $55 million to $65 million a year in
revenue for the state.  High Foreclosure States  Other states are seeing similar trends in tax collections,
especially those where foreclosures have been high.  In  California , which had the third-highest foreclosure rate
in the U.S. last year, the number of filers taking the deduction
for mortgage interest fell 9 percent while the value of the
deductions fell almost 20 percent from 2007 to 2009, according
to data from the Franchise Tax Board.  “It’s helping the state governments because they are not
giving away as much as they were before in the mortgage interest
deduction,” Albouy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  