-- Osborne Pledges $15 Billion for IMF Without U.K. Parliament Vote
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-04-20T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/osborne-pledges-15-billion-for-imf-without-u-k-parliament-vote.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said Britain will pledge $15 billion to expand the
resources of the  International Monetary Fund  and that he will be
able to commit the money without parliamentary approval.  The increase is likely to meet opposition from lawmakers in
his Conservative Party who oppose increasing the Washington-
based lender’s firepower, particularly if the money is used to
bail out other European countries.  “The world needs a strong IMF and we can be one of the
many countries that will support the IMF,” Osborne told
reporters in  Washington  today. “It’s part of a global effort.”  Osborne has already committed about 29 billion pounds ($47
billion) from within the 39 billion-pound ceiling approved by
the House of Commons, leaving him about 10 billion pounds
headroom to lend more. The U.K.’s extra contribution is
“broadly in line” with funds pledged by other non-euro area
countries and in line with its quota share to the IMF, Osborne
said.  The extra funds, if disbursed, will be subject to full IMF
lending conditions, Osborne said, though those conditions
haven’t been set. The loans would be made to countries, not
currency blocs, and come after a European Union pledge to expand
its own firewall by 800 billion euros. Osborne said the IMF will
get about $400 billion extra money.  Conservative Party  lawmakers say they will oppose boosting
the IMF’s resources if they are to be used to bail out  Spain  or
other southern European countries that use the euro. Mark
Pritchard, the secretary of the 1922 Committee of Conservative
lawmakers without a government portfolio, said in November that
Prime Minister  David Cameron  would lose the “goodwill of
the public” if more money is committed to the IMF.  Osborne said today the pledge is a “contingent liability”
that is drawn from the U.K.’s currency reserves and does not
“add to the deficit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Washington at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  