-- Motorola Mobility Triples CEO’s Pay Following Google Deal
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-04-20T21:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/motorola-mobility-more-than-triples-jha-s-pay-to-47-2-million.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Ltd.
Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Jha received compensation of
$47.2 million last year, when he negotiated to sell the handset
maker to  Google Inc. (GOOG) , more than triple his pay for 2010.  The majority of the gain came from Jha’s option awards,
which were worth $34.2 million, up from $7.05 million in 2010,
the company said today in a regulatory filing. His stock awards
more than tripled to $9.4 million.  Motorola Mobility was spun off from parent  Motorola Inc. (MMI) ,
which became  Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI) , in January 2011 under
pressure from investors led by billionaire  Carl Icahn  looking to
shake up the company’s performance. Jha helped return the
handset business to growth by first slashing the range of
Motorola phone varieties and then focusing on building
smartphones that use Google’s Android software.  Still, he wasn’t able to return Libertyville, Illinois-
based Motorola Mobility to profitability before agreeing to sell
the company to Google for $12.5 billion on Aug. 15. Shares of
the company declined 19 percent between its January 2011 stock
market debut and the day before the Google deal was announced,
before jumping 56 percent on the day of the deal.  Jha’s 2011 compensation is “significantly a result” of
the incentives established for him before the spinoff and when
he was hired in 2008, Motorola Mobility said in a statement
today. “His actual equity award was at the low end of the
possible range specified by the formula.”  Google is close to naming Dennis Woodside, who led its ad
sales in the Americas before leaving that job to oversee the
acquisition, to run Motorola Mobility, replacing Jha when the
deal closes, three people familiar with the matter said in
February.  While the deal has won approval from U.S. and European
Union regulators, Chinese regulators in March extended their
probe into the acquisition, the last hurdle before the
transaction can be completed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  