-- Thousands Rally in Egypt After Presidential Candidates Banned
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-04-20T09:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/thousands-rally-in-egypt-after-presidential-candidates-banned.html
Thousands of Egyptians poured into
Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  amid increasing political tensions ahead
of May presidential elections, the first since the ouster of
 Hosni Mubarak .  The Muslim Brotherhood, whose political party controls the
largest bloc in parliament, called for rallies to “defend the
revolution” in an April 18 statement in which it criticized a
decision to disqualify its main nominee, Khairat el-Shater, from
the presidential race. Other groups and parties including the
April 6 movement called for separate protests under the slogan
“No constitution under military rule.”  “Say it, don’t be afraid, SCAF must leave,” some of the
protesters chanted, referring to the ruling Supreme Council of
the Armed Forces.  The barring of presidential candidates, confirmed by the
election commission this week, has added to the turmoil
surrounding  Egypt ’s transition. Islamists, secular politicians
and the army council have clashed over the process of drawing up
a new constitution and returning to civilian rule.  Ten prospective nominees were excluded from the contest due
to begin on May 23. They include el-Shater, the more
conservative Salafi cleric Hazem Abu Ismail and Mubarak’s
longtime intelligence chief,  Omar Suleiman .  After his expulsion from the race, el-Shater told reporters
on April 18 that developments indicated the generals had no real
intention to fully relinquish power. The military council says
it will hand over to civilians by the end of June.  The Brotherhood accuses the interim government installed by
the military of failing to restore security or help the economy
recover, and has criticized the generals for refusing to fire
it. The Islamist group has fielded a backup candidate, Mohamed
Morsi, who heads its Freedom and Justice Party, to contest the
presidential race.  Politicians will meet with Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, head of the army council, on April 22 to discuss the
composition of the committee charged with drafting a new
constitution. An administrative court ruling this month
effectively suspended the 100-member panel, amid accusations it
was dominated by Islamists with other groups under-represented.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Fiona MacDonald in  Kuwait  at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 