-- Toyota Wins Tentative Dismissal of Some Acceleration Claims
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-04-20T22:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/toyota-wins-tentative-dismissal-of-some-acceleration-claims-1-.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  won tentative
dismissal of some claims by plaintiffs who said their vehicles
lost value because of the carmaker’s recalls for sudden,
unintended acceleration-related issues.  U.S. District Judge James Selna in  Santa Ana , California,
in a tentative order today, agreed with Toyota that the New York
and Florida class representatives in the consolidated lawsuits
can’t bring claims under their states’ laws if they didn’t
allege their cars experienced sudden, unintended acceleration.  The judge disagreed with Toyota and said New York law
didn’t preclude the claims of a plaintiff who said she traded in
her Prius for a reduced amount because of the alleged defect
even if she didn’t claim that her car manifested the defect.
Selna will make a final decision on Toyota’s request to dismiss
the claims after a hearing on April 23.  “The highest court of the state  New York  would be likely
to find actionable the claims of a plaintiff who realizes a
measurable loss on the resale or trade-in of a vehicle with an
unmanifested defect that may be fairly attributed to that
defect,” Selna said.  The issue of whether New York and Florida law allowed
claims for “unmanifested” defects is a separate question from
whether plaintiffs who hadn’t had sudden, unintended
acceleration problems with their vehicles had the right to sue,
according to the judge’s tentative ruling.  Economic Losses  Selna last year said the Toyota owners were in a legal
position to sue for alleged economic losses and allowed Toyota
to challenge his decision with the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San
Francisco .  Steve Berman , one of the lead lawyers for the plaintiffs,
declined to comment on Selna’s tentative decision before next
week’s hearing.  Celeste Migliore, a spokeswoman for Toyota Motor Sales USA
in Torrance, California, declined to comment on the ruling  Selna presided over the consolidated litigation since 2010.
He has scheduled three trials for next year that will serve as
bellwether cases to be used by the court and lawyers for both
sides to test evidence and liability theories before moving on
to other trials and a decision by Selna as to whether to approve
a class-action status for the plaintiffs.  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 