-- Payrolls Rise in 29 U.S. States, Unemployment Falls in 30
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-04-20T14:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/payrolls-increase-in-29-u-s-states-unemployment-falls-in-30.html
Payrolls increased in 29 U.S.
states in March and the jobless rate declined in 30, signs of
the uneven improvement in the job market that is concerning some
Federal Reserve policy makers.  New York  led the nation with a gain of 19,100 workers,
followed by California with 18,200, and  Arizona  with 13,500, the
Labor Department reported today in Washington. Mississippi and
Oklahoma showed the biggest declines in joblessness, where it
dropped 0.6 percentage point.  Earlier this month, Labor Department figures showed that
payrolls in the U.S. rose half as much in March as a month
earlier. Nontheless, job gains have been enough to shore up
household confidence, with more Americans saying their finances
are in better shape, according to yesterday’s Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index.  “We’re in a very slow-growing recovery,”  Stuart Hoffman ,
chief economist for PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in
Pittsburgh, said before the report. “I don’t think in the next
three to six months the jobs numbers are going to go down.”  The economy added 120,000 jobs in March, the fewest in five
months, after a 240,000 gain in February, the Labor Department
said on April 6. Unemployment declined to 8.2 percent, the
lowest since January 2009, as Americans left the  labor force .  Fed on Labor  Some Fed policy makers have said that growth may not be
fast enough to sustain the job creation that has helped push
down unemployment.  “Recent labor market data provide an example of the uneven
pattern of economic activity,” Federal Reserve Bank of
Cleveland President  Sandra Pianalto  said in an April 16 speech
in Lexington, Kentucky. “Monthly ups and downs like these make
it hard to confirm the underlying pace of job creation.”  The jobless rate fell to 9 percent in Mississippi and 5.4
percent in Oklahoma, today’s report showed. Unemployment in
Nevada remained the highest in the nation even after falling to
12 percent in March from 12.3 percent. It rose to 11.1 percent
in Rhode Island, the second-highest in the U.S.  California  had
the third-highest rate at 11 percent.  Twenty-three states reported jobless rates “significantly
lower” than the 8.2 percent for the nation as a whole.  North
Dakota  at 3 percent, Nebraska at 4 percent and  South Dakota  at
4.3 percent have the lowest rates of unemployment in the U.S.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  