-- Penn State to Pay About $5.5 Million to Paterno Estate, AP Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-04-20T17:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/penn-state-to-pay-about-5-5-million-to-paterno-estate-ap-says.html
Penn State University  has agreed to
pay about $5.5 million to the estate of football coach  Joe Paterno , who was fired in November because of his handling of a
child-sex abuse scandal involving a former assistant, the
Associated Press said.  The school yesterday paid about $3 million to the Paterno
estate and family members, as part of bonuses owed the coach for
his work last season and during his 46-year coaching career, the
 news agency  reported today citing an unidentified university
spokeswoman. In total, Penn State will pay about $5.5 million in
payments and benefits to the family of Paterno, who died of  lung
cancer  in January at age 85.  Wick Sollers, the Paterno family attorney, issued an e-
mailed statement yesterday saying that the payments were
“indisputably owed” to the Paterno family in the late coach’s
contract and the family had not signed away its right to sue.  “The university had requested that the family agree to a
full release in return for the payments under the contract,”
Sollers said in the statement. “That request was declined and
no release was signed. It would be incorrect, therefore, to
characterize the payments as a settlement.”  Penn State  spokesman Bill Mahon did not immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment on the payments.  Paterno was fired Nov. 9 following criticism for failing to
contact police when told of a case involving former defensive
coordinator Jerry Sandusky, who was charged with assaulting boys
in the school’s athletic complex. In 46 seasons as the Nittany
Lions’ coach, Paterno won 409 games, a record at college
football’s highest level.  Beaver Stadium Suite  As part of the  State College ,  Pennsylvania , university’s
payment package, Paterno’s family is allowed use of a suite in
Beaver Stadium for 25 years, and $900,000 from last season’s
television and radio revenue, the report said. The university
will pay Paterno’s wife, Sue, $1,000 a month for life, and
provide her with use of on-campus facilities.  The estate also will receive a $3 million career bonus that
Paterno would have been paid had he retired at the end of last
year. Though Paterno was fired during the season, he announced
his intentions to step down at year’s end following Sandusky’s
arrest, and the university’s trustees elected to honor the terms
of the contract, the  Associated Press  said.  Sandusky is scheduled to face trial June 5 on more than 50
criminal counts tied to the alleged abuse of boys over a 15-year
period. Former Athletic Director Tim Curley and vice president
 Gary Schultz  also await trial after being accused of lying to a
grand jury. All three men have denied the charges.  -- Editors: Michael Sillup, Rob Gloster  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  