-- Pfizer Ordered to Pay $4 Million in Damages in Prempro Case
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-04-20T18:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/pfizer-ordered-to-pay-4-million-in-damages-in-prempro-case-1-.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  must pay at least
$4 million in damages to a woman who developed breast cancer
after taking the company’s Prempro menopause drug, a jury in
Connecticut ruled.  Jurors in federal court in  New Haven  ruled April 18 that
Pfizer’s  Wyeth  unit was liable for causing Margaret Fraser’s
cancer and that Prempro was an “unreasonably dangerous
product,”  Greg Bubalo , one of Fraser’s lawyers, said in a
telephone interview today. The panel also found Wyeth should pay
punitive damages over its handling of the drug, he said.  The jury concluded that Wyeth’s handling of the drug “was
reckless and they had misrepresented the risks and benefits of
its drug to patients and doctors,” Bubalo said. A federal judge
will decide later how much in punitive damages Pfizer must pay,
he said.  More than 6 million women took Prempro and related
menopause drugs to treat symptoms such as hot flashes and mood
swings before a 2002 study highlighted their links to cancer.
Wyeth’s sales of the medicines, which are still on the market,
topped $2 billion before the release of the  Women’s Health
Initiative , a National Institutes of Health-sponsored study.  Until 1995, many menopausal women combined  Premarin ,
Wyeth’s estrogen-based drug, with progestin-laden  Provera , made
by Pfizer’s Upjohn unit, to relieve their symptoms. Wyeth
combined the two hormones in its  Prempro  pill.  Legal Options  “We are disappointed with the verdict and will evaluate
our legal options once the court completes its work in this
case,” Chris Loder, a Pfizer spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Since the case is continuing, it would not be
appropriate to comment any further at this time.”  Pfizer’s Wyeth and Upjohn units have now lost 11 of 20
Prempro cases decided by juries since trials began in 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The New York-based drugmaker got some of those verdicts
thrown out after trial or had the awards reduced. It resolved
some of the verdicts through settlements, while other decisions
are on appeal. Pfizer also has had cases thrown out before trial
and settled others.  Pfizer announced in May 2011 that it had settled a third of
the pending Prempro cases and had set aside $772 million to help
resolve the claims.  Jurors in Fraser’s case found Wyeth officials failed to
properly warn the retired public-school principal about
Prempro’s risks, said  Neal Moscow , another lawyer who
represented the plaintiff in the case. Moscow said the jury
foreperson was a lawyer for the U.S. Attorney’s Office in
 Connecticut .  Extreme Conduct  “The jury found Wyeth’s conduct was so extreme that it
warranted an award of punitive damages,” the lawyer said.
Fraser, 66, is from Lakeville, Connecticut.  Moscow said U.S. District Judge Janet Bond Arterton in New
Haven hasn’t said when she’ll decide how much in punitive
damages Pfizer must pay in connection with the verdict.  In the last Prempro verdict against Pfizer and its units
five months ago, a Philadelphia jury awarded more than $72
million to three women who blamed their breast cancers on drugs
made by Wyeth and Pharmacia Upjohn. Pfizer later settled those
cases for undisclosed sums.  The company  convinced  a federal-court jury in  Nebraska  last
month to throw out claims that Prempro was the cause of a
woman’s breast cancer and Wyeth should be held liable for
damages.  The Connecticut case is Fraser v. Wyeth Inc., 3:04-1373,
U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  