-- TPG Says It Won’t Improve Offer for GlobeOp After SS&C Bid
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-04-20T15:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/tpg-says-it-won-t-make-improved-offer-for-globeop-after-ss-c-bid.html
TPG Capital, the U.S. private-
equity firm, won’t improve its 508 million-pound ($816 million)
bid for  GlobeOp Financial Services SA (GO/) , clearing the way for  SS&C
Technologies Holdings Inc. (SSNC)  to buy the hedge-fund administrator.  “Over the past few weeks TPG, had been pursuing a number
of strategic alternatives in order to revise its offer,” the
private-equity firm said in a statement today. “However, after
substantial investigation, TPG has determined that an improved
offer could not be concluded on terms which would deliver
sufficiently strong returns to all stakeholders.”  SS&C, a Windsor, Connecticut-based developer of software
for financial firms, offered 485 pence a share in cash for
GlobeOp on March 14, trumping TPG’s 435-pence-a-share bid. SS&C
today urged GlobeOp shareholders to accept its offer “as soon
as practicable,” and no later than April 23, according to a
statement. GlobeOp said separately its independent directors
have recommended investors accept SS&C’s bid.  GlobeOp, which calculates funds’ management and performance
fees, and determines monthly net asset values, has increased the
amount of hedge fund assets it does administrative work for by
$13 billion in the first quarter to $187 billion. While 2011 was
the hedge fund industry’s second-worst year ever in terms of
 investment performance , money managers still opened more than
1,100 new firms, according to data provider Eurekahedge Pte.  The stock fell 1.6 percent to 482.5 pence in London
trading, for a market value of about 519 million pounds. The
shares closed at 293 pence on Jan. 5, the day before GlobeOp
said it was in talks to be acquired.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  