-- Philippine Peso Completes Fifth Weekly Advance on Remittances
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-04-20T09:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/philippine-peso-set-for-weekly-loss-on-europe-crisis-bonds-gain.html
The Philippine peso completed a
fifth weekly gain after data showed a pickup in remittances from
overseas workers. Bonds were steady.  Money sent home by Filipinos living abroad increased 5.8
percent in February from a year earlier to $1.6 billion, after
gaining 5.4 percent in January, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas
reported on April 16. Exports climbed 14.6 percent from a year
earlier in February, the most in 10 months, the government
reported last week. The peso was little changed today after
yields rose at a Spanish debt auction yesterday.  “We remain positive on the peso over the medium term given
improving exports and solid support from remittances,” said
 Prakriti Sofat , a Singapore-based regional economist at  Barclays
Capital . “The BSP’s preference is for contained appreciation as
it protects the purchasing power of remittances and the
competitiveness of exports.”  The peso appreciated 0.1 percent this week to 42.607 per
dollar in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. One-month
implied volatility, which measures  exchange-rate  swings used to
price options, fell 40 basis points this week to 5.30 percent,
the lowest level since May 2007. It was unchanged today.  The central bank allows the market to determine the
exchange rate and the monetary authority may buy or sell the
currency to curb volatility, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said last month.  Europe ’s crisis poses a threat to the
economy, he said.  Spain  sold 10-year bonds at 5.74 percent yesterday,
compared with 5.40 percent at the previous auction on Jan. 19.  The yield on the Philippines’ 5 percent bonds due August
2018 was unchanged this week and today at 4.95 percent,
according to prices from Tradition Financial Services. Policy
makers held the rate paid to lenders for overnight deposits at 4
percent yesterday. Authorities cut the rate by 25 basis points
at each of the past two meetings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 