-- Plane Crash Kills 127 People Near Pakistan’s Capital
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2012-04-21T10:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/plane-crashes-in-pakistan-with-127-on-board-geo-tv-says.html
Pakistan  barred foreign travel by
the owner of the plane involved in the nation’s worst air
disaster in almost two years as authorities investigate the
cause of the accident.  Farook Omar Bhoja, chairman of Bhoja Air, won’t be allowed
to leave the country until investigators determine the cause of
the crash, which killed all 127 people on board, Interior
Minister Rehman Malik told reporters. Salman Tahir, a  Bhoja Air 
spokesman, declined to comment on the travel ban.  The disaster occurred as the twin-engine Boeing Co. 737-200
carrying 118 passengers and 9 crew members was on approach to
land at the Pakistani capital on a flight from Karachi,
Pakistan, said Tahir. Officials will complete identification of
the victims using DNA tests today, Malik said.  The jet went down during thunderstorms, and air traffic
controllers lost contact about 6:40 p.m. local time, according
to GEO TV, which also reported on the retrieval of the flight
data recorder. The so-called black box logs data such as speed
and engine performance that will offer clues to the cause of the
crash.  Pakistan’s President Asif Ali Zardari ordered a probe into
the accident, while Chicago-based Boeing said it was prepared to
send technical experts to assist and the U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board said it was in touch with Pakistan
officials to offer support.  One eyewitness said the plane was on fire before the crash,
GEO TV reported. Parts of the fuselage, a door and at least one
body of a woman facedown and dressed in a full-body veil were
shown in footage aired by  CNN .  Safety Standards  It was Pakistan’s worst air crash since July 2010, when an
Airbus SAS jetliner slammed into a rain-soaked hillside at
Islamabad, killing all 152 people on board in the nation’s
deadliest air disaster. Two other accidents in the same year
killed 33 others, according to AviationSafety Network’s  website.   Pakistan has a  category 1 safety  rating from the U.S.
 Federal Aviation Administration , which means it meets
international standards.  The 737-200 that crashed was at least 24 years old, because
Boeing’s  last delivery of that model  was in 1988, according to
the Chicago-based planemaker’s website. Tahir, the spokesman,
didn’t immediately have the age of the jet.  The accident left closely held Bhoja Air with three
aircraft: two 737-200s and one 737-400, Tahir said. Boeing
stopped making the 737-400 in 2000.  Financial Difficulties  Bhoja Air, based in Karachi, started operations in November
1993 by leasing a Boeing 737-200 and connecting Pakistani cities
including Lahore and Quetta, according to the airline’s website.
The carrier shut down in 2000 because of financial difficulties
and restarted operations last month, Tahir said. Bhoja Air is
the second-biggest private carrier in the country.  The U.S. NTSB is gathering information about the accident
and “opening up a channel of communication with the folks in
Pakistan,” said Peter Knudson, a spokesman for the agency in
 Washington . The NTSB didn’t yet know its level of involvement,
Knudson said yesterday.  Boeing said the dispatching of technical specialists to a
crash  investigation  is a common practice with incidents
involving a plane it made. The 737 is the world’s most widely
flown jetliner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Farhan Sharif in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Naween Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  