-- Polish Government Agrees to Raise the Retirement Age to 67 Years
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-04-20T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/polish-government-agrees-to-raise-the-retirement-age-to-67-years.html
Poland’s government agreed to raise
the  retirement age  to 67 years as the largest eastern member of
the European Union seeks to trim public spending and lower the
 budget deficit .  Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s government plans to raise the
retirement age from 65 for men and 60 women in three-month
annual increments starting next year, the Warsaw-based
government said today. Changes in pensions for people employed
in uniformed services were also approved, it said.  The increase should add 0.2 percentage point to  economic 
growth each year through 2030, according to government
estimates, while “growing benefits from increased
contributions’ from a larger number of working Poles will help
stabilize public finances,” Wojciech Nagel, who analyzes
social-security at the Business Center Club, said in an e-mail.  Poland’s economy was the only one in the EU to avoid
recession in 2009 and will growth 2.5 percent this year, the
fastest pace in the  trading bloc , the European Commission said
in February. The government wants to cut its general government
deficit to 2.9 percent this year from 5.1 percent in 2011.  The plan allows for 50 percent of retirement pensions to be
paid to men from the age of 65 and to women from 62, for those
who have worked at least 35 years. Full benefits would then be
paid when the official retirement age is reached.  Tusk, who won October elections to become the first Polish
premier to clinch a second consecutive term since the end of
communism in 1989, pledged to cut the fiscal deficit below the
EU threshold of 3 percent of gross domestic product to ensure
sustained economic growth.  Law makers will start debate over increasing the minimum
retirement age on April 26, parliamentary speaker Ewa Kopacz
told a news conference today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  