-- Popular CEO Says He Was ‘Not Involved’ in Loans to Board Members
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-04-20T20:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/popular-ceo-says-he-was-not-involved-in-loans-to-board-members.html
Popular Inc. (BPOP)  Chief Executive
Officer Richard Carrion said today he was “not involved” in
approving delinquent or troubled loans made to some board
directors.  “They were made with the approval of the board of
directors. I was certainly not involved in that approval,”
Carrion, who’s also the bank’s chairman, said today on a
conference call following the San Juan-based lender’s first-
quarter results.  Carrion, 59, who’s been Popular’s CEO for almost two
decades and sits on the board of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York , is seeking to help the bank recover from losses on soured
home loans and repay $935 million to the U.S. government after a
2008 bailout.  His sister and two of his nephews, one of whom is also a
Popular director, have delinquent property loans to the lender,
according to a regulatory filing. The bank has also restructured
the loans of another director, the board’s head of corporate
governance, and classifies his debts as “troubled,” the filing
shows.  “In the past few years, things have not worked out exactly
as we expected in  Puerto Rico ,” Carrion said in response to an
analyst’s question. “We expect that these loans at this current
level will get paid.”  Popular reported first-quarter net income that more than
quadrupled to $48.4 million, or 5 cents a share, from last year.
It rose 3.9 percent to $1.89 at 4:30 p.m. in New York trading.
The  shares  gained 36 percent this year.  ‘Internal Procedures’  “All related party transactions are subject to internal
procedures and banking laws and regulations that require they be
made on market terms and conditions,” said Teruca Rullan, a
spokeswoman for Popular, in a statement e-mailed earlier this
week.  Any transaction involving directors and their “related
business interests must be approved in advance by the board of
directors, which is overwhelmingly comprised of independent
directors,” she said, declining to comment further on behalf of
Carrion’s family members and the directors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  