-- Portugal’s Gaspar Says Yields to Fall on Bailout Success
-- B y   J i m   S i l v e r
-- 2012-04-20T10:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/portugal-s-gaspar-says-yields-will-decline-on-bailout-success.html
Portuguese bond yields, the highest
after  Greece ’s among countries using the euro, will gradually
decline as the country meets the targets of its international
aid plan, Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said.  Portugal  will stick to its current goals and doesn’t plan
to seek more lenient terms, Gaspar said. The country’s banks are
ahead of schedule in improving their  balance sheets , he said,
adding they will probably use only “a fraction” of the
international aid earmarked for capital-raising.  “The process of regaining  market access  is a gradual
process,” Gaspar said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York. “These things take time. Credibility
and confidence accumulate slowly.”  Portugal is cutting spending and increasing taxes to comply
with the terms of the 78 billion-euro ($102 billion) aid plan
from the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . At
the same time, its economy has been shrinking, with the EU and
IMF forecasting a 3.3 percent contraction this year, about twice
last year’s pace.  After peaking at 17.39 percent in January, yields on
Portugal’s benchmark 10-year bonds have eased. The 10-year bond
yield fell 19 basis points to 11.96 percent today. The two-year
bond yield also declined for a fourth day, dropping 27 basis
points to 9.702 percent after touching the lowest since March.  Portugal, Ireland and Greece sought aid after their yields
breached 7 percent in 2010 and 2011.  Not ‘Normal’  “Portuguese bond markets are not functioning in a normal
way,” with low volume and “very wide” gaps between bidding
and asking prices, Gaspar said. “When you look at bond yields,
you’re looking at a very noisy and distorted indicator of
credibility.”  Treasury bills are a more reliable indicator, as they’re
more actively traded, he said. Yields on Portugal’s one-year
bills have declined from 5.34 percent in February to 3.85
percent today.  Gaspar, 51, took office in June 2011 as part of the cabinet
of new Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho . The new leadership
came to power the month after the previous government agreed to
the aid plan, with the support of Passos Coelho’s Social
Democrats.  Portugal won’t pursue any change of the bailout terms,
Gaspar said. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
Gaspar in February that his country would be willing to consider
such an adjustment, in a brief exchange between the two prior to
an EU meeting that was picked up by Portuguese television.  ‘Completely Committed’  Though Gaspar at the time called Schaeuble’s attitude
“much appreciated,” he said yesterday it would be a mistake to
conclude he was seeking easier aid terms.  “That is completely impossible from that conversation --
because I uttered something like 10 words,” he said. “No, no,
not at all -- we are completely committed to the program.”  European countries have said they’re willing to extend
Portugal’s aid if it complies with the terms and still can’t
obtain market financing on schedule, in September 2013.  “It’s a source of great comfort to us,” Gaspar said. “We
regard it as a kind of insurance mechanism, something that makes
sense to have. Although, obviously, it’s not because you have
auto insurance that you become a reckless driver.”  Portugal may need to ask for a second bailout by September
as the nation is hamstrung by weak economic growth and lack of
access to bond markets at affordable rates, according to a
report by Morgan Stanley.  “We expect a deeper recession than official projections
and consensus estimates,” analysts including London-based
Daniele Antonucci said in a report. “Our base case is a second
bailout package by September 2012.”  Narrowing Deficit  Portugal narrowed its  budget deficit  to 4.2 percent of GDP
in 2011 from 9.8 percent in 2010 after the transfer of banks’
pension funds to the state, equal to about 3.5 percent of GDP.
The government aims for a shortfall of 4.5 percent in 2012 and
forecasts it will reach the EU ceiling of 3 percent in 2013.  Portuguese banks have also made progress, with the eight
largest lowering their loan-to-deposit  ratios  faster than
required under the bailout, Gaspar said. Banks are also raising
capital, with some relying on private investors while others are
making use of 12 billion euros set aside in the aid package for
the state to invest in banks.  Gaspar declined to estimate how much of that money banks
will use, adding that “even in a worst-case scenario, it will
be a fraction of the 12 billion.”  Portugal is also revising legislation on labor rules,
regulation of markets such as electricity and
telecommunications, and selling state assets as part of the aid
plan.  Airline, Airports Sale  This year’s asset sales include airline TAP SGPS SA and
airport operator ANA-Aeroportos de Portugal SA. They will be
sold separately, in processes that will overlap in time, Maria Luis  Albuquerque , secretary of state for treasury, said during
the interview. Portugal is in the process of choosing investment
banks.  The overlapping timing is important, because “the value of
the airports depends on the future of the airline company, and
the future of the airline company is also related to who manages
the airports,” she said.  Complying with the aid plan “is a difficult and painful
process,” Gaspar said. That will help ensure that it won’t
revert to the policies that made it necessary, he added. “There
is a strong determination on the part of the Portuguese to never
again let a process like this happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Silver in  New York  at 
 jsilver@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Skillman at 
 bskillman1@bloomberg.net . 