-- Pride, Prejudice Confront Bigotry in ‘Clybourne’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-04-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/pride-prejudice-confront-bigotry-in-clybourne-review.html
Within the last few months my homey
upper Manhattan enclave has seen the closing of a family-run
fruit and vegetable market and a shoe repair shop, the first to
be replaced by an upscale wine store, the second by whoever is
willing to pay many times the rent that Alex, the toothless
shoemaker who often slept on the premises, could afford.  With changes in signage come changes in character. That’s
the subject of Bruce Norris’s engaging “Clybourne Park.”  The leading role belongs to the house at 406 Clybourne
Street in the fictional white, middle-class Chicago neighborhood
that was the setting for Lorraine Hansberry’s groundbreaking
1959 drama, “A Raisin in the Sun.”  Act I is set in 1959 and from the boxes scattered around
the living room, it’s clear that a family is moving out. Bev
(Christina Kirk) and Russ (Frank Wood), a white couple, are
headed for a new neighborhood not far away.  Over the course of an afternoon, they will be visited by
their priest (Brendan Griffin) and another couple, Betsy (Annie
Parisse) and Karl (Jeremy Shamos), former friends come to
dissuade them from completing the apparently unwitting sale to a
black family.  “It will happen as follows,” Karl says. “First one
family will leave, then another, and another, and each time they
do, the values of these properties will decline, and once that
process begins, once you break that egg, Bev, all the kings
horses, etcetera.”  Bearing Witness  Witnessing, and then unwillingingly participating, in the
scene are the black housekeeper (Crystal A. Dickinson) and her
husband (Damon Gupton)  Act II, set 20 years later, reveals the house transformed
(ingeniously by set designer Daniel Ostling, with sympathetic
help from lighting designer Allen Lee Hughes). Spray-painted
graffiti scream from the crumbling walls, a handsome oak
bannister has been replaced by a metal rail, the place is a
wreck.  Which is fine by Steve (Shamos) and Lindsey (Parisse), the
upwardly mobile white couple who plan to tear it down anyway.
They want to replace it with a Mcmansion -- complete, in case
you don’t get the message, with a koi pond.  Their inevitable visitors from the neighborhood association
are intent on convincing them to “respect the memory” of the
neighborhood.  When Steve is affronted by the not-so-subtle
impugning of their ethics, Lena (Dickinson) responds, “No, what
we’re questioning is your taste.”  Smack Down  Being no fan of McMansions, I particularly liked that smack
down. But it doesn’t quite parallel the situation of Act I. Like
it or not, that koi pond is probably going to increase
everyone’s property values, Lena’s included.  Whether you think that makes “Clybourne Park” more subtle
than a simple tract play -- as last year’s Pulitzer board would
seem to have decided -- will determine how much you get out of
it.  Under Pam MacKinnon’s seamless direction, there are
remarkable performances from actors who have been living in
their dual roles since the play’s off-Broadway premiere two
years ago.  Nevertheless, I still found “Clybourne Park” a confused
work. Norris has a fine ear for dialogue, but muddled
dramaturgy. A melodramatic backstory concerning a son’s suicide
and a buried trunk seems tacked on and some of the repartee --
notably arguments about capital cities in the first act that are
echoed in the second -- undermine the otherwise naturalistic
storytelling.  But as parts of Harlem today are claimed by wealthy white
families on the hunt for bargain fixer-uppers, the debate over
the meaning of “neighborhood” is surely of the moment. Just
take a walk around my block.  At the Walter Kerr Theatre, 219 W. 48th St. Information:
+1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights includes a  review  of “The Lucky One.”  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 