-- Public Power Rises on 960 Million-Euro Loan Deal: Athens Mover
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-04-20T13:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/public-power-rises-on-960-million-euro-loan-deal-athens-mover.html
Public Power Corp. SA (PPC)  rose for the
first time in over two weeks in Athens trading after the company
agreed on terms of a 960 million-euro ($1.3 billion)  bank loan 
to help it overcome liquidity problems and refinance debt.  Public Power ,  Greece ’s biggest electricity company, rose as
much as 6.3 percent and traded at 2.77 euros, up 1.8 percent, at
3:58 p.m., giving the company a market value of 640.3 million
euros.  Greece’s worsening economic situation combined with a
government strategy of using Public Power statements as a
vehicle for imposing and collecting a special real-estate levy
led to an increase in unpaid bills in the first quarter, the
Athens-based company said in a regulatory news filing today.  Unemployment is at a record 21.8 percent high and the  Greek
economy  is set to shrink for a fifth straight year. The
government imposed the property levy, which has affected owners
of 5 million homes and businesses, in September as part of a
package of measures to boost revenue.  Public Power’s liquidity was also hurt by the requirement
to pre-finance the cost of supplying electricity to 200,000
customers of alternative-electricity suppliers Hellas Power and
Energa, the company said. The Hellenic Transmission System
Operator SA suspended the licenses of both companies in January
because of unpaid debts.  The syndicated loan will also enable the company to
refinance debt that matures in 2012, according to the filing.  Public Power said it expects  cash flow  to improve in the
second quarter given tariff increases, a tax return of 167
million euros, the offsetting of money due to the company from
public sector entities and increased revenue from the supply of
power to former customers of Hellas Power and Energa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  