-- Putin Pins Hope on Syria Cease-Fire to Combat U.S. Supremacy
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-04-20T12:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/putin-pins-hope-on-syria-cease-fire-to-combat-u-s-supremacy-1-.html
Vladimir Putin  is counting on a
diplomatic victory in Syria to assert  Russia ’s influence in
global foreign policy as he prepares to return to the Kremlin,
analysts and former diplomats from Moscow to London said.  As the U.S. and Gulf states demand Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad step down, Putin has shielded a regime that is Russia’s
biggest Middle East ally and buys 8 percent of the country’s
arms exports. Russia accused the West and its allies of
sabotaging a cease-fire brokered by Russia. Qatar and the U.S.
have expressed skepticism about United Nations envoy Kofi Annan’s efforts to broker a peace agreement backed by Russia.  The Syrian deal is a centerpiece of a foreign-policy push
by Putin, who spent the past 12 years seeking to restore Russian
prestige after the collapse of communism in 1991. The country is
also involved in efforts to restart talks over  Iran’s nuclear
program  and to contain tensions on the Korean Peninsula. A key
goal for Putin is to maintain Russia’s role in the Middle East,
which accounts for about a third of global oil output.  “The Russians will be hoping fervently that this leads to
some kind of peaceful resolution between Assad and the
opposition in Syria,” said Tony Brenton, U.K. ambassador to
Russia from 2004 to 2008. “If you think that not so long ago,
after the collapse of communism, Russia became a completely
negligible international factor, to be back out there at the top
table brokering international policy is a big thing for them.”  Putin ratcheted up his rhetoric in the run-up to his March
4 election to a new six-year term, saying the U.S. “wants to
control everything” and takes decisions unilaterally on issues
vital to the international community.  Eurasian Union  As prime minister over the past four years, Putin
spearheaded an economic reintegration with Belarus and
 Kazakhstan , writing in an Oct. 4 article that the bloc of former
Soviet countries will help reduce global imbalances and fuel
integration across “Greater  Europe .”  The three states, with a combined population of 170 million
people, formed a customs union last July and a common economic
space from Jan. 1. Russia has also tried to persuade  Ukraine  to
join.  In  Syria , Putin has focused on negotiations over sanctions
or military intervention after Russia lost billions of dollars
of arms and civilian contracts as a result of the Arab Spring
uprisings that toppled autocratic regimes in the region. Defense
accounts for 2.5 percent of Russian exports.  Libyan Contracts  Russia lost $4 billion in weapons contracts with  Libya 
after  Muammar Qaddafi ’s overthrow, according to Sergey Chemezov,
head of state-run Russian Technologies Corp. OAO Russian
Railways had to suspend building a $1.5 billion railroad linking
Sirte and Benghazi.  Putin said Western allies went on a “crusade” in Libya by
ousting Qaddafi, publicly splitting with current President
 Dmitry Medvedev  who abstained at the UN to allow NATO-led
military action in the country. Medvedev later said NATO had
misused the UN mandate, intended to protect civilians, to bring
about regime change.  In the  Iran  dispute, Russia’s idea for a series of mutual
confidence-building measures has been adopted by world powers
negotiating with the Persian Gulf country. The European Union’s
foreign policy chief,  Catherine Ashton , said after last week’s
talks in Istanbul that negotiations were guided by the principle
of a “step-by-step approach and reciprocity” which Russia
proposed last year.  ‘They Are Appalled’  “They are appalled at the thought of Iran acquiring
nuclear weapons, and as with Syria, they are keen to find a
peaceful way out of the situation,” said Brenton, adding that
Russia’s decision last year to suspend the sale of S-300 anti-
aircraft missiles to Iran “significantly weakens Iran in the
event of an Israeli air strike on it.”  In Syria, Russia favors a negotiated outcome similar to the
talks mediated by the Gulf Cooperation Council in Yemen that
paved the way for the departure of former President Ali Abdullah Saleh this year.  Russian arms sales to Iran fell to about $100 million a
year from almost $1 billion after the imposition of UN
sanctions, according to the Center for the Analysis of
Strategies and Technologies, a research group in Moscow. Russia
built Iran’s $1 billion Bushehr nuclear plant, the country’s
first, and the country has said it would like to order new
Russian-made nuclear power stations.  Brokering a solution in Syria would transform Russia’s
international standing, said  Fyodor Lukyanov , an analyst at the
Council on Foreign and Defense Policy in Moscow.  ‘Major Victory’  “It would be a major victory for Russia, which will
trumpet itself as an influential power that can resolve
crises,” Lukyanov said by phone. “It would be the first major
diplomatic victory since the collapse of the  Soviet Union .”  Putin views the break-up of the Soviet Union as the 20th
century’s greatest geopolitical catastrophe and his first period
as president from 2000 to 2008 was characterized by tensions
with the U.S. over Russia’s influence in the former Soviet bloc.  While Putin supported the initial U.S. response to the
September 11 attacks, the world’s two biggest nuclear powers
tussled over U.S.-led plans to develop a missile shield in
Europe and expand NATO to incorporate former Soviet satellites.  Just three months after handing over to Medvedev, relations
with the U.S. sank to a post-Cold War low following a war with
U.S. ally  Georgia  in August 2008.  New Tensions  As Putin’s third term nears, new tensions are emerging.
Russia, along with  China , blocked two UN resolutions condemning
Assad for his 13-month crackdown on an uprising that has claimed
more than 9,000 lives according to the world body. That included
a February resolution that demanded Assad step down.  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has accused
unidentified outside powers of seeking to wreck the cease-fire
declared by Syria five days earlier, after pressure from Russia.
He urged North Atlantic Treaty Organization members to back the
UN peace plan yesterday, condemning their “prophecies” that it
would fail.  “There are those, including outside Syria, who would like
to derail the Annan plan’s implementation,” Lavrov said in
comments broadcast on state television today. “That’s why it’s
essential that everyone unite around that plan.”  Lavrov urged the  Security Council  to pass a resolution as
quickly as possible authorizing a full-scale observer mission,
Interfax news service reported.  Friends of Syria  Fifty-seven countries, meeting in  France  three days ago,
voted to tighten sanctions on Syria. Members of the so-called
Friends of Syria group are openly supporting the rebels with
non-lethal assistance, such as communications equipment,
according to European diplomats who aren’t authorized to speak
to the media.  The Annan plan backed by Putin has met skepticism from the
 Middle East  to the U.S. Qatar’s Emir Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani on April 16 said the Annan plan has “no more than a 3
percent” chance to succeed.  The UN said it’s ready to send more observers to Syria in a
week to help monitor the implementation of the cease-fire
agreement. The seven observers already in the country will be
expanded to 30, Al Arabiya television reported, citing Ahmad
Fawzi, an aide to Annan.  Russia, which has a naval resupply base in the port of
Tartus, is seeking to keep its influence in the country after
Assad’s expected departure, said Lilit Gevorgyan, a Russia
analyst at IHS Global Insight in  London .  “Russia’s opposition to regime change in Syria is not so
much driven out of loyalty to Assad’s regime but more out of
Moscow’s efforts to force the U.S. to give it a say on the
matter,” Gevorgyan said by e-mail. “Instead of having the US
as an adversary, Russia would rather like to have a pragmatic
partnership with the US. It would prefer being a member of the
same club.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  