-- Rand Gains as IMF Fund Pledges Boost Appetite for Risk
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-04-20T13:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/rand-gains-as-imf-fund-pledges-boost-appetite-for-risk.html
The rand gained, headed for its
first weekly advance in three, and yields fell to seven-month
lows after the  International Monetary Fund  received new pledges
to bolster its crisis-fighting fund, boosting risk appetite.  South Africa ’s currency climbed 0.4 percent to 7.8196 per
dollar as of 3 p.m. in Johannesburg, bringing its advance this
week to 1.6 percent, the most since the week ended Feb. 24. The
yield on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 fell seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 7.64 percent, the
lowest since Sept. 8. The yield has declined 30 basis points
this week.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said the fund had
received pledges of $320 billion, amid speculation finance
chiefs from the G-20 meeting with the fund today in  Washington 
will step up efforts to quell  Europe ’s debt crisis. Lagarde is
seeking more than $400 billion in new reserves to increase a
lending capacity of about $380 billion. She wants the money to
help insulate the international economy from dangers such as
European contagion, high unemployment and rising oil prices.  “Given the IMF’s role in helping the periphery in the euro
zone as well as stabilizing the global economy, such news may
help ease market fears,”  George Glynos , an economist at
Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments
today. The recapitalization “will have been priced in by the
markets but the accompanying statements may still provide some
support for risk assets,” he added.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index gained for a second day as
the price of metals including copper, nickel and platinum
advanced. Raw materials account for 45 percent of South Africa’s
exports, according to government data.  Bond Inflows  The rand and bonds have rallied since April 17, when
Citigroup Inc. said the nation’s debt may be included in its
World Government Bond Index from October. That may attract as
much as $7.5 billion from investors who track the gauge,  Leon Myburgh , a Johannesburg-based analyst at Citigroup, said.  “Bonds are likely to continue to benefit in coming
months,”  Myburgh said in an e-mailed research note today.
“Actual flows from WGBI tracking funds are not likely to start
before the formal announcement of South Africa’s inclusion,
which will only be towards the end of June.”  German Business Confidence  The rand extended gains, following the euro, after German
business confidence unexpectedly increased for a sixth month in
April. The rand often tracks the euro, with a statistical
correlation of 0.7 over the past year. A value of 1 would mean
they moved in lock step.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said today its business
climate index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, rose to
109.9 from 109.8 in March. Economists forecast a drop to 109.5,
the median of 40 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The yield on South Africa’s $1.5 billion of 4.665 percent
bonds due 2024 dropped 22 basis points to 4.11 percent. The
extra yield investors demand to hold the debt rather than U.S.
Treasuries narrowed 11 basis points to 212 basis points.  The rand’s three-month implied volatility versus the dollar
declined to 15.3 percent, from 15.7 percent on April 16,
indicating options trades expect smaller currency swings in
coming months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  