-- Treasuries 10-Year Yield Falls for Fifth Week on Europe
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-04-20T21:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/treasury-investors-cut-bets-on-inflation-on-slowing-signs.html
Treasury 10-year yields fell for
the fifth straight week, the longest stretch since June, amid
speculation the European sovereign-debt crisis is far from
resolved.  The yield on the  10-year note  traded below 2 percent for a
sixth day even as governments committed more than $430 billion
in fresh money to the  International Monetary Fund  to help it
protect the world economy against turmoil in  Europe . The  Federal
Reserve  sold $8.63 billion in notes as part of its program known
as Operation Twist.  “The Treasury market is going to stay well bid despite
whatever positive spin that comes from European meetings,
because the problem in Europe is still not fixed,”  Adrian Miller , a fixed-income strategist at GMP Securities LLC in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “There is still a lot of
uncertainty.”  Benchmark 10-year note yields were little changed at 1.96
percent at 5 p.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2 percent note due February 2022 rose 1/32,
or 31 cents per $1,000 face value, to 100 10/32.  The 10-year yield has stayed within seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, of 2 percent for almost two weeks. The
yield has tumbled from 3.41 percent a year ago.  The near-doubling of the IMF’s firepower was announced
after G-20 finance ministers and central bankers met today in
 Washington . The promise of a larger financial backstop
represented an endorsement of Europe’s stepped-up efforts to
quell its two-year crisis even as its policy makers were told
they should still do more.  ‘Key Issue’  “Make no mistake about it, this is a key issue for the
global economy,”  Kevin Giddis , president of fixed-income
 capital markets  at the brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc. in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee , wrote in a note to clients. “Investors
don’t really want to go out and assume new risk.”  Valuation measures show Treasuries rose from the most
expensive level in six weeks. The term premium, a model created
by economists at the Fed, touched negative 0.62 percent, the
least expensive since April 12. It reached negative 0.67 percent
yesterday, the most expensive since March 7. A negative reading
indicates investors are willing to accept yields below what’s
considered fair value.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures
Treasury price swings based on options, dropped yesterday to
72.2 basis points, below this year’s average of 79 basis points.
It reached 93.3 basis points on March 20, the highest level this
year.  ‘Price Action’  Trading  volume  was below average today, with about $130
billion of Treasuries changing hands through ICAP Plc, the
world’s largest interdealer broker. The average in 2012 is $251
billion. Volume reached $439 billion on March 14, the highest
since August.  “The European situation is the only thing on people’s
minds, so that’s dictating the price action,” said Thomas Roth,
senior trader in  New York  at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc.  The U.S. announced it will sell $35 billion of two-year
notes on April 24, the same amount of five-year debt the
following day and $29 billion of seven-year debt on April 26.  The  difference  between yields on U.S. five-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt,
narrowed to 1.88 percentage points yesterday, the least since
Feb. 16.  TIPS Auction  The U.S. sold $16 billion in five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities at a record low  yield  of negative 1.08
percent yesterday as investors sought insurance against rising
prices. TIPS of all maturities have returned 2.2 percent this
year, while conventional Treasuries are little changed,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes.  The U.S. central bank is also replacing $400 billion of
shorter-term debt in its holdings with longer maturities to hold
down borrowing costs.  The Fed sold Treasuries due from February 2014 to May 2014
today as part of the program, according to the New York Fed’s
 website . The Fed has pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate 
near zero until at least late 2014 to support growth.  The 10-year yield is consolidating after dropping to 1.94
percent on April 16, the lowest since March 6, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield may find support at the April
16 low, then at the Feb. 28 low of 1.89 percent, with resistance
at the 100-day moving average of 2.01 percent, the data show.  Support refers to an area on a yield graph where buy orders
may be grouped and resistance relates to potential clusters of
sell orders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  