-- Three More Secret Service Agents Leave Over Scandal
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-04-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/three-more-secret-service-agents-leave-in-prostitution-case-1-.html
Three more U.S. Secret Service
employees are leaving the agency after being suspected of
consorting with prostitutes while preparing for President Barack Obama’s arrival at a summit in  Colombia .  The three resigned, bringing to six the number that the
agency has said are either leaving voluntarily or being forced
out, Paul S. Morrissey, a Secret Service assistant director,
said in a statement yesterday. He didn’t release their names.  The departures stem from allegations about the employees’
behavior during preparations for the trade and economic summit
in Cartagena, which ended on April 15. The episode has sparked
condemnation from Republicans and Democrats, some of whom have
called for all the workers to be fired.  Twelve employees have been implicated, one more than
previously disclosed, according to Morrissey. The 12th employee
has been placed on administrative leave and his security
clearance was temporarily suspended.  One employee involved in the case was cleared of “serious
misconduct” and faces “administrative action,” according to
Morrissey. Five employees remain on administrative leave pending
the investigation’s outcome, he said.  Obama was briefed on the probe during an Oval Office
meeting yesterday with Secret Service Director Mark Sullivan,
said an administration official who wasn’t authorized to speak
about a private meeting.  Retaining Confidence  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters yesterday
the president retains his faith in the Secret Service’s ability
to protect him, his family and members of the administration.  He said he saw no need for the administration to
investigate whether White House officials might have been linked
to the prostitution episode.  As far as he knew, the incident didn’t “involve anything
but the agents and the military personnel,” Carney said.
At least 10 members of the military also were implicated,
and the Defense Department is conducting a separate
investigation.  In a letter yesterday, Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa ,
the top Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, asked if
Secret Service employees shared hotel rooms with White House
officials while in Cartagena.  Grassley sent the letter to Sullivan and Charles Edwards,
the acting inspector general of the Department of  Homeland
Security , the Secret Service’s parent agency. Edwards has begun
his own investigation.  Political Advantage  The Secret Service employees’ alleged actions are the
latest in a series of scandals, including an $823,000 General
Services Administraion conference in  Las Vegas  that have brought
into question Obama’s ability to manage, said Senator  Jeff Sessions , an Alabama Republican.  The president must focus “on restoring faith in the
operation of the federal government,” Sessions said in a
statement.  Carney said Sessions and other Republican critics are
trying to gain political advantage.  “It is preposterous to politicize the Secret Service,”
Carney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  