-- Reliance Net Slumps Most in 3 Years as Gasoline Demand Declines
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-04-20T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/reliance-net-slumps-most-in-3-years-as-gasoline-demand-declines.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , India’s
biggest company by market value, posted the sharpest decline in
quarterly profit in more than three years after refining margins
narrowed amid slowing global economic growth.  Net income  fell 21 percent to 42.4 billion rupees ($814
million), or 12.9 rupees a share, in the three months ended
March 31 from 53.8 billion rupees, or 16.4 rupees, a year
earlier, the Mumbai-based explorer and refiner said in a stock
exchange filing yesterday. The  median estimate  of 30 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg was a profit of 42.8 billion rupees.  A slowdown in  China’s economy  and  Europe ’s prolonged debt
crisis cut gasoline and diesel demand, adding to the drag on
Reliance’s earnings from lower production at India’s biggest
natural gas deposit. Reliance, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh
Ambani , has gained 5.5 percent this year, trailing the 12
percent increase in the benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index.  “Lower gas output and refining margins have pulled down
profit again,” said Kamlesh Kotak, vice president of research
at Asian Markets Securities Pvt. in  Mumbai . “Investors will be
looking closely at when they will increase gas output. That
holds the key.”  The  shares  fell 1.5 percent to 730.85 rupees in Mumbai
yesterday, giving Reliance a market value of $46 billion. The
earnings were announced after trading closed.  The consensus analyst  rating  for Reliance is the most
bearish since January 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  downgraded  the stock to
underweight this month, Standard Chartered Plc cut it to “in-
line” from outperform last month and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc reduced to hold from buy in February.  Refining Margin  The company reported a profit of $7.6 for every barrel of
crude it processed into fuels in the quarter, compared with $9.2
a barrel a year earlier, according to the statement.  Reliance operates the world’s largest refining complex,
consisting of two adjacent plants that can turn a combined 1.24
million barrels of crude into fuels daily. Crude-processing
accounts for almost 65 percent of its revenue.  The facility at Jamnagar in the western state of Gujarat
has the capability to turn cheap, low-grade crude into high-
value fuels. A narrowing difference between lighter  crude oil ,
which is expensive, and heavier varieties that are cheaper,
hurts Reliance’s earnings.  Brent crude  in London trading gained 11 percent this year.
The June contract $1.16, or 1 percent, to $119.16 a barrel as of
10:57 a.m. New York time yesterday.  Light, Heavy Oils  The  average difference  between light Brent crude oil and
heavier Dubai oil was $2.23 a barrel in the quarter ended March
31, compared with $4.93 a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The spread was $2.62 a barrel in the
preceding quarter.  Profit from turning Dubai crude into diesel in Singapore, a
regional benchmark, averaged $16.81 a barrel in the quarter,
compared with $18.49 a barrel a year earlier and $18.22 in the
preceding quarter, according to data from PVM Oil Associates
Ltd., a London-based crude and refined-products broker. It fell
to a 15-month low of $14.45 a barrel on April 13.  Reliance’s refining profit was also hurt by lower
production because of a shutdown in February, Credit Suisse
Group AG analyst Sanjay Mookim said in an April 17 report. The
company shut a crude distillation unit at the newer 580,000
barrel-a-day facility for three weeks in the quarter.  Reliance had cash and equivalents of 702.5 billion rupees
as of March 31, according to the statement, boosted by the sale
of stakes in oil and gas fields to  BP Plc. (BP/)  Total debt was 682.6
billion rupees.  Gas Field  The company sold a 30 percent stake in 21 fields, including
the KG-D6 deepwater block in the Bay of Bengal, to London-based
BP last year for $7.2 billion.  Reliance’s gas output from KG-D6, the nation’s biggest,
fell 23.5 percent in the year ended March 31, according to the
statement. Daily output, which peaked at about 60 million cubic
meters in June 2010, has dropped because of technical
difficulties in the reservoir, Reliance said.  “Operationally, they aren’t doing well at all,” said K.
Ravichandran, the Chennai-based co-head of corporate ratings at
 ICRA Ltd. (ICRA) , the local affiliate of Moody’s Investors Service.
“The positive thing is they have more cash than debt and that
means on the debt side, they won’t have any problems.”  The  Chinese economy expanded  8.1 percent in the first
quarter this year, the slowest pace since the second quarter of
2009. The government in March cut the growth target to 7.5
percent for this year, after keeping it at 8 percent in the
previous seven years.  Oil prices  have moved for more than two years on
developments in the euro region’s debt crisis and its projected
impact on the continent’s energy demand. The crisis that began
in  Greece  has spread to Ireland,  Portugal ,  Italy  and  Spain .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  