-- Republican Whipping-Boy Illinois Beats Wisconsin on Jobs
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-04-20T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/republican-whipping-boy-illinois-beats-wisconsin-on-jobs.html
Scott Walker , the Republican
governor facing a recall vote in Wisconsin, traveled over the
Illinois line to argue that the tax increase backed by his
Democratic counterpart  Pat Quinn  is killing jobs even as the
Midwest rebounds from recession.  “Is it any wonder because of choices that were made right
here in the state’s capital?” Walker, 44, said in an April 17
speech in Springfield. “When you raise taxes on businesses,
that wealth and opportunity and those jobs more often than not
go somewhere else.”  A broader snapshot tells a different tale. Illinois ranked
third while Wisconsin placed 42nd in the most recent Bloomberg
Economic Evaluation of States index, which includes personal
income, tax revenue and employment.  Illinois  gained 32,000 jobs
in the 12 months ending in February, the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics found. Wisconsin, where Walker promised to create
250,000 jobs with the help of business-tax breaks, lost 16,900.  For Republicans, Illinois is the  Nancy Pelosi  of U.S. states
-- like the former House speaker, a favorite target of ridicule
when arguing Democrats stifle growth. The state has $8 billion
in unpaid bills and $80 billion in unfunded pension liabilities.  Quinn was ready for the cross-border critique from
Wisconsin, whose state’s employment fell more than any other.
Quinn scheduled a news conference less than hour after Walker
spoke to announce that  LaFarge SA (LG) , the Paris-based building
materials maker, would move its North American headquarters to
Illinois.  ‘Worst Job Record’  “They have the worst job record in the whole country, dead
last,” Quinn, 63, said of Wisconsin. “We certainly don’t want
to follow his prescriptions when it comes to economic growth.”  Illinois, the home state of President  Barack Obama , became
a Republican talking point in January 2011 after the Democratic-
controlled General Assembly approved and Quinn signed a 67
percent increase in the personal-income tax and a 46 percent
boost in the corporate levy to help close a projected $13
billion budget deficit.  Governor Mitch Daniels of neighboring Indiana compared the
situation with “living next door to ‘The Simpsons.’ You know,
the dysfunctional family down the block.” New Jersey Governor
Chris Christie said he’d try to lure jobs from Illinois. “If he
wants to tank his economy, that’s just fine,” Christie said of
Quinn.  The lingering feud between the Wisconsin and Illinois
governors mirrors the broader election-year debate over the
national economy and which party is best able to ensure a robust
recovery from the longest downturn since the 1930s.  Stark Contrast  “You couldn’t ask for a starker contrast,” said  Charles Franklin , a political scientist who runs the Marquette Law
School Poll in  Milwaukee . “Quinn is willing to raise taxes and
Walker is not.”  Walker is facing a June 5 recall election following his
successful push to curb collective bargaining for most public
employees. The move provoked a campaign to make him only the
third governor in U.S. history to be recalled.  Quinn has his own problems. His approval rating in Illinois
was 30 percent and his disapproval 54 percent in a February 2-6
poll published by the Chicago Tribune.  The border war between  Wisconsin  and Illinois says more
about politics than economics, said  Edward Hill , an economist at
Cleveland State University in  Ohio .  “Illinois has a debt bomb ticking,” Hill said. “That’s
the long-term anchor and you can’t simply cut your way out of
that.”  Smaller Economy  Illinois’s economy is the fifth-largest in the U.S. while
Wisconsin’s is 20th, according to U.S. government data. The
smaller state has to fight more for jobs because “it does not
have the economic engine of Chicago,” the third-largest U.S.
city, Hill said. “What you’ve got is two states with a
different competitive resource base and different ideologies.”  Walker boasts that his refusal to raise taxes was fiscally
responsible and made his state stronger economically.
Wisconsin’s 6.9 percent  unemployment rate  in February is tied
with  Massachusetts  as the nation’s 14th lowest. The 9.1 percent
rate in Illinois is tied with Georgia and  South Carolina  at
42nd. The jobless figure in Quinn’s state has been 9 percent or
higher since March 2009.  Illinois ranked behind only North Dakota and  Michigan  in
the Bloomberg economic index, which also measures  home prices ,
mortgage delinquency rates and the equity performance of
companies headquartered in each state. The index ranked
Wisconsin 42nd among the states when comparing the fourth
quarter of 2011 with the same period of 2010.  “Walker will look at the poor job performance and say it’s
because the recalls caused a lot of economic uncertainty,”
Franklin said. “It’s like Obama saying the economy would have
been in a lot worse shape without his policies. It’s all in the
eye of the beholder.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in  Chicago  at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 Fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  