-- Riverbed Technology Falls Most Since IPO After Forecast
-- B y   N i a m h   R i n g
-- 2012-04-20T20:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/riverbed-technology-tumbles-as-sales-trail-estimates.html
Riverbed Technology Inc. (RVBD)  tumbled
the most since its market debut five years ago after the maker
of computer-networking products lowered its forecast for 2012
sales growth, citing the effect of new product introductions.  Riverbed  dropped  29 percent to $19.85 at the close in New
York, for the biggest drop since its initial public  offering  in
September 2006. The San Francisco-based company’s shares have
fallen 16 percent this year.  Riverbed, which creates technology to help customers keep
their software in far-flung data centers more efficiently, has
benefited from the growth of cloud computing. During the first
quarter, the company introduced devices in the Steelhead product
line that are designed to overcome bandwidth and geographic
storage limitations. The bid to diversify its offerings crimped
results, Chief Executive Officer Jerry M. Kennelly said.  “The combination of our product transition and a
seasonally weaker quarter was challenging,” Kennelly said on a
conference call yesterday. “We continue to feel the unavoidable
growing pains associated with becoming a multiproduct company.”  The company said it now expects 2012 revenue to increase by
15 percent, down from a prior  forecast  for 17 percent to 20
percent growth.  “Riverbed’s product transition is resulting in a painful
2012,” Sanjiv Wadhwani, a San Francisco-based analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., said in a report today. “While we do expect
sales to accelerate in second-half 2012, we believe it might be
hard for the company to hit its target of 15 percent year-over-
year growth,” said Wadhwani, who  recommends  holding the stock.  Wadhwani is predicting total sales growth this year of 13
percent.  First-quarter sales increased 12 percent to $183 million
from a year earlier, the company said. That fell short of the
average $186.1 million analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg.
Earnings per share excluding certain items was 20 cents,
matching estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niamh Ring in  New York  at 
 nring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  