-- Romney Raised $12.6 Million in March, Best Fundraising Month
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-04-20T17:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/romney-raised-12-6-million-in-march-for-best-fundraising-month.html
Presumptive Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  raised almost $12.6 million in March, his
best fundraising month yet, according to a news release sent
today by his campaign.  In the past year, the former Massachusetts governor and
onetime private-equity executive has raised $87 million. The
campaign has close to $10.1 million cash on hand, according to
the release.  “Mitt Romney’s continued strong fundraising shows that
voters across the country are tired of the failures from
President Obama,”  Spencer Zwick , Romney’s national finance
chairman, said in the statement. “We will continue the hard
work to raise the necessary funds to defeat President Obama and
change the direction of the country.”  Romney’s campaign said that it had no debt and that the
candidate hadn’t made any personal loans or contributions to its
operation.  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas, who along with
former U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich continues competing for
the Republican nomination, had about $1.8 million cash on hand
as of the end of March, according to a Federal Election
Commission report his campaign filed today. He raised more than
$2.6 million in March and spent about $2.2 million, the report
shows.  Gingrich, Romney and President Barack Obama must file their
fundraising reports with the FEC by midnight.  Romney’s fundraising last month occurred as he won several
contests that cleared his path for his party’s nomination,
including closely watched primaries in Ohio and Illinois. He
emerged as the presumptive nominee after his main challenger,
former Senator  Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania, announced April 10
that he was suspending his campaign.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Scottsdale, Arizona at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
jbykowicz @bloomberg.net.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  