-- Russian Billionaire Bids for South African Uranium Mine
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-04-20T14:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/russian-billionaire-bids-for-south-african-uranium-mine.html
Russian billionaire  Victor Vekselberg ’s Renova Group made a joint bid with  South Africa ’s
Waterpan Mining Consortium for a mine controlled by  First
Uranium Corp. (FIU) , trumping an earlier offer.  Konstantin Sadovnik, a director of Renova’s Transalloys
(Pty) Ltd. unit, said today in an e-mail that his company and
Waterpan bid for the Ezulwini gold and uranium mine in South
Africa. Chopper Van der Bijl, a director at closely held
Waterpan, confirmed the offer yesterday in an e-mail. Both men
declined to give details.  Mary Batoff, a spokeswoman for Toronto-based First Uranium,
didn’t immediately respond to telephone calls and an e-mail
seeking comment.  First Uranium said March 2 that  Australia ’s  Gold One
International Ltd. (GDO)  would buy Ezulwini for $70 million while
South Africa’s  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  would acquire its Mine
Waste Solutions unit for $335 million. First Uranium said at the
time it wouldn’t be able to pay the outstanding principal on
about C$150 million ($151 million) of convertible debentures due
June 30 without the proceeds from the sales.  First Uranium is selling the assets too cheaply, a group of
shareholders that own a combined 17 percent stake in the company
said last month. The group wants the company to consider the
Renova offer and enter into negotiations, Nicholas Betsky, head
of equities at  Russia ’s Olma Investment Firm, which is one of
the shareholders, said today in an interview.  Job Cuts  Shares of First Uranium slumped 37 percent yesterday after
the company reported lower first-quarter gold and uranium
production. The stock has fallen 89 percent in the past year.  First Uranium said in December it may cut 1,850 jobs at
Ezulwini, about half the total, after failing to raise enough
funds. The company had $6.7 million in cash at the end of March,
down from $10 million at year-end, it said yesterday. It
negotiated a $10 million loan as part of the Gold One
transaction, which will need to be repaid when the sale closes.  Renova acquired Transalloys, owner of a South African
manganese plant, from Highveld Steel & Vanadium Ltd. in 2007.  Waterpan owned 10 percent of the Ezulwini mine until it
sold the stake to First Uranium in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  