-- Russia-IMF
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-04-20T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/russia-imf.html
The Group of 20 will announce new
funding for the  International Monetary Fund ’s European reserves
that will “satisfy” requests from Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , Russian Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak said.  Lagarde, who has called Europe the “epicenter” of risks
to the world economy, is seeking more than $400 billion in new
funding from member countries. She said before meetings with
Group of 20 finance ministers in  Washington  yesterday that she
had landed pledges for about $320 billion.  “I can assure you that the G-20 will announce the final
amount” today, Storchak told reporters in Washington late
yesterday. “This will be the sum that will suit the leadership
of the International Monetary Fund.”  The IMF is pressing Europe to intensify efforts to quell
two years of turmoil as it threatens to engulf Spain. Lagarde
has said European governments should consider using their rescue
funds to inject cash directly into Spanish banks. The IMF has
also suggested the  European Central Bank  cut  interest rates 
again, as well as for governments to issue joint debt and a
restructuring of banks.  The G-20 pledge “will be an obvious completion of an
important phase in the construction of not just European, but
global firewalls,” Storchak said. Russia will contribute $10
billion, in line with earlier commitments, though the BRIC
group, which includes Brazil, Russia, India and  China , have
insisted that the G-20 not reveal the breakdown of how much in
additional funding each provides, he said.  “It’s a very delicate moment for public opinion in
emerging markets countries,” Storchak said. “Incomes and
living standards are significantly lower in many of these
countries, compared with European Union countries,” he said.
“BRIC ministers have noted an important fact -- good news
outweighs negative news for the first time in the past year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  