-- Schaeuble Says Europe ‘No Longer the Focus’ at IMF Meeting
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-04-20T15:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/schaeuble-says-europe-no-longer-the-focus-at-imf-meeting-1-.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the euro area’s sovereign debt crisis is “no
longer the focus” of discussions at the spring meeting of the
 International Monetary Fund  in Washington after the region
delivered on its pledge to boost its financial backstop.  Schaeuble is at odds with finance chiefs from Canada and
Australia who’ve pressed  Europe  to intensify efforts to quell
the turmoil as it spreads to Spain. The Group of 20 in a draft
communique obtained by Bloomberg News in Washington yesterday
cited “the situation in Europe” first in a list of drags on
the world economy.  A presentation by Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
yesterday on how the Spanish government intends to bring public
finances back under control was “impressive,” Schaeuble told
reporters today in  Washington . Europe will have “a very
positive development” if other nations copy Spain’s approach of
revamping its labor laws and pension system, he said.  “We can tell the world with full conviction that the
Europeans have met their commitments. We’re on a good track,”
Schaeuble said. “The crisis of confidence in the financial
markets with a view to the euro region hasn’t been fully
overcome yet, but the substantial decisions have been taken.”  Financial Backstop  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has stopped
criticizing Europe after ministers decided at a meeting in
Copenhagen to boost the euro region’s financial backstop to 800
billion euros ($1.1 trillion), Schaeuble said.  There was agreement at a meeting of Group of Seven
officials in Washington yesterday that any new debate that might
spur uncertainty in financial markets is “harmful and without
substance,” Schaeuble said.  G-7 member  Canada  is proposing that non-Europeans should
have a veto over the role that the IMF can play in providing aid
to Europe, Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said yesterday. Canada
“is of the view that we ought to have two keys, in effect,” he
said.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  is looking to
increase a lending capacity of about $380 billion and has so far
raised more than $320 billion with Russia becoming the latest
nation to chip in $10 billion.  Schaeuble, speaking to reporters alongside Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann, said the IMF’s lending power will be
increased by the order of around $400 billion, adding he has
“great respect” for Japan’s pledge to contribute $60 billion
to the amount.  Spain, Italy  “The Spanish colleague and the Italian colleague laid out
very impressively what  Spain  and Italy have set out to do and
what the development is,” Schaeuble said. With the focus
shifting away from Europe,  Germany  is insisting that other G-20
goals such as deficit reduction and financial regulation are
pursued.  “We’re pressing very hard that just as we have delivered,
others have to fulfill their commitments as well,” Schaeuble
said with reference to an agreement at the G-20 leaders’ summit
in Toronto to halve budget deficits in industrial countries by
2013. Germany will also push for tighter financial market
regulation outside Europe, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  