-- Schlumberger First-Quarter Profit Rises on Offshore Oil
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-04-20T20:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/schlumberger-first-quarter-profit-rises-on-drilling-boom.html
Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s
largest oilfield-services provider, climbed the most in more
than four months after reporting first-quarter profit rose 38
percent as customers increased higher margin deep-water drilling
around the globe in response to climbing crude prices.  Net income rose to $1.3 billion, or 97 cents a share, from
$944 million, or 69 cents, a year earlier, Houston- and Paris-
based Schlumberger said in a statement today. Shares rose 2.7
percent to $71.70 at the close in  New York .  The average number of active oil and natural-gas rigs
outside the U.S. and  Canada  during the quarter climbed 1.2
percent to 1,189, according to  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  Oil drilling
increased as the average prices for  Brent crude  climbed 12
percent to $118.45 a barrel from $105.52 a year earlier.  “Their international margins held steady, which I view as
a positive,” Stephen Gengaro, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach
Inc. in New York, who rates the shares a buy and owns none, said
today in a telephone interview. “They were flat in a weaker
seasonal quarter.”  Excluding a normal seasonal drop in sales, the increase in
high-margin exploration and deepwater activities helped sustain
“robust” international margins, Schlumberger said in the
statement. Sales climbed 22 percent to $10.6 billion.  Schlumberger helps companies drill for oil and gas,
including using a pressure-pumping technique called hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, to free the fuel from shale formations.  International Markets  The company, which generated about two-thirds of its
revenue from outside the U.S. and Canada, has a positive view on
the international markets, with rig counts expected to climb
more than 10 percent this year.  “Pricing sentiments are starting to move upwards as the
majority of the large international contracts have now been re-
bid and service capacity is tightening further,”  Chief
Executive Officer Paal Kibsgaard said today in the statement.
“Oil demand in 2012 appears to have stabilized.”  The company has the chance to boost international margins
through the rest of this year, Kibsgaard told analysts today on
a conference call.  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s second-largest oilfield
services provider, reported April 18 an adjusted profit that
beat by 4 cents a share the expectation by analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  