-- Schneider Sales Rise Even as Europe Slowdown Weighs on Revenue
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-04-20T07:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/schneider-sales-rise-more-than-expected-9-4-on-acquisitions.html
Schneider Electric SA (DG) , the biggest
maker of low- and medium-voltage equipment, said a slowdown in
Europe continues to weigh on sales even as it reported first-
quarter revenue that beat analysts’  estimates .  Revenue climbed 9.4 percent from a year earlier to
5.41 billion euros ($7.11 billion), bolstered by acquisitions
and rising demand in the Americas and  Russia , the French company
said in a statement today. Analysts polled by Bloomberg
predicted 5.29 billion euros. Excluding acquisitions and
exchange rate changes, sales rose 0.4 percent, hurt by declines
in France,  Spain ,  Italy ,  China  and  Japan .  “In Western Europe, there have been a lot of uncertainties
at the end of 2011 that are weighing on markets and sales at the
start of 2012,” Chief Financial Officer Emmanuel Babeau said
in a telephone interview. “We should see an improvement later
this year.”  Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pascal Tricoire reiterated a
forecast for “flat to slightly positive” organic revenue
growth this year, held back by the economic slump in Southern
 Europe . “For the remainder of 2012, visibility remains limited
by the uncertainty surrounding the global economy,” he said in
the statement.  Schneider declined as much as 1.8 percent and was down 0.6
percent at 47.16 euros at 9:44 a.m. in Paris, paring the stock’s
gain this year to about 16 percent.  Margins  The CEO repeated a goal for adjusted margin on earnings
before interest, taxes, and amortization of 14 percent to 15
percent in 2012 as the company cuts costs to mitigate the impact
of rising raw material prices and more sales of systems and
services that have lower margins than products.  The CEO spent $3.8 billion last year on takeovers such as
Spanish software company Telvent GIT SA, Chinese energy-savings
drives maker Leader Harvest Power Technologies, and Indian maker
of inverters and power-storage systems Luminous Power
Technologies to expand in  emerging markets  and broaden power-
management systems.  In the first half of 2012, Schneider is in “integration
mode” for its recent acquisitions, though it doesn’t rule out
making “small” purchases, Babeau said. He didn’t exclude asset
sales, declining to discuss specific units.  Schneider, based in Rueil-Malmaison near Paris, will
continue to benefit from price increases made last year and have
a “slightly negative” impact from rising raw material prices,
CFO Babeau said.  China Policy  The “mid-single digit” decline in first-quarter sales in
China, which accounts for about 12 percent of Schneider’s
revenue, is due to government policy aimed at arresting the
“overheating” of some industries and by slowdowns at some of
China’s customers in Western Europe, Babeau said. “We’re
expecting a gradual improvement” during the year, he said.  France , which accounts for about 8 percent of the group’s
revenue, is marked by a “wait-and-see attitude” that may be
partly due to this month’s presidential elections, and Italy
posted a “double-digit” drop in first-quarter sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  