-- Scottish Widows Investment Says Clunie to Run Equities Funds
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-04-20T12:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/scottish-widows-investment-says-clunie-to-run-equities-funds-1-.html
Scottish Widows  Investment
Partnership said James Clunie will start managing two stock
funds previously overseen by Peter Cockburn, whose position as
head of U.K. equities was axed in a revamp of the company.  Clunie, part of the team that was headed by Cockburn, will
take over the U.K. Select Growth Fund and the U.K.  Opportunities
Fund (SWUKEAA) , the Edinburgh-based firm said in an e-mailed statement
today. Scottish Widows said it was unable to comment further on
Cockburn. He wasn’t reachable by telephone at his office today.  Scottish Widows Investment , the fund business of  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , is overhauling its stocks division to start
relying more on computers to pick companies and less on fund
managers, leading to 27 job losses.  The 54 billion-pound ($86 billion) equities business will
shed 70 percent of its 38 “active” money managers who select
investments, the firm said.  Chief Executive Officer Dean Buckley has been trying to
boost performance. The Scottish Widows U.K. Growth Fund, its 1.4
billion-pound flagship equity fund, has ranked in the bottom 11
percent of competing funds over one, two, three and five years,
according to data compiled by Morningstar Inc.  The  U.K. Select Growth (SCWEQUA)  and the U.K. Opportunities funds are
both among the worst performers of similar funds. The Select
Growth Fund lost investors 9.9 percent in the year to April 19,
ranking 280 out of 287 similar funds, according to researcher
Morningstar Inc.  The Opportunities Fund lost 8.6 percent, ranking 276. The
average fund gained 0.9 percent over the period, according to
Morningstar. Over three years the Select Growth Fund ranked 214
of 270 similar funds, and the Opportunities Fund ranked 222.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  