-- SEC Says Boston Men Who Fed to Madoff Will Pay $4.8 Million
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-04-20T16:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/sec-says-boston-man-to-pay-4-8-million-after-feeding-to-madoff.html
A Boston hedge-fund manager and his
son will pay $4.8 million to settle U.S. regulatory claims that
they lured customers with a fabricated track record before
investing with other funds, including Bernard L. Madoff’s fraud.  Gabriel Bitran, 66, founded GMB Capital Management LLC in
2005 and with his son Marco Bitran raised more than $500 million
over a three-year period, the Securities and Exchange Commission
said in an administrative order filed today. The two men, who
resolved the claims without admitting or denying wrongdoing,
also agreed to be barred from the securities industry.  “The Bitrans solicited investors by touting an impressive
track record and a unique investment strategy,” David Bergers,
head of the SEC’s Boston office, said in a statement. “They
lied about both.”  To market their fund, the Bitrans created performance
records dating from 1998 that showed annualized returns of as
much as 16.2 percent with no down years, the SEC said. They told
investors the records were based on actual trading using Gabriel
Bitran’s optimal-pricing models when they were actually based on
hypothetical historical investments, according to the order.  Undisclosed Losses  Customers were misled to believe their money would be
invested using the quantitative strategy when in reality certain
GMB  hedge funds  were just investing in other hedge funds, the
SEC said. GMB didn’t disclose to clients that they suffered
significant losses after their money was invested in frauds
including Petters Group and Madoff’s  Ponzi scheme , the SEC said.  Nicholas Theodorou, an attorney for Gabriel Bitran at Foley
Hoag LLP, and Mark Pearlstein a lawyer for Marco Bitran and GMB
at McDermott Will & Emory LLP, said their clients are pleased to
have reached a settlement with the SEC and to have put the
matter behind them.  GMB told investors in November 2008 that it was winding
down a fund that had invested with Madoff through Tremont Group
Holdings. GMB said in a January 2009 letter to investors that it
was discontinuing investments with outside managers and instead
concentrating on the trading strategy created by Gabriel Bitran,
who is a professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology ’s  Sloan School of Management , according to the
university’s website.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in  North Carolina  for running a Ponzi scheme that
defrauded investors of an estimated $20 billion in principal.  Minnesota businessman  Thomas Petters  was sentenced in 2010
to 50 years in prison for running a $3.5 billion fraud scheme in
which he told investors he would finance the purchase of
consumer-goods shipments. Prosecutors said Petters used one of
his companies to support his money-losing businesses and lavish
personal lifestyle.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  