-- Second Army Corps Official to Plead Guilty in Bribe Case
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-20T22:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/second-army-corps-official-to-plead-guilty-in-bribe-case-1-.html
A former U.S.  Army Corps  of
Engineers contracting official, Kerry Khan, and his son are
scheduled to plead guilty in a bribery case alleging a $20
million false billing scheme involving federal contracts.  Kerry Khan of Alexandria,  Virginia , and Lee Khan, will
enter their pleas before U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan
in  Washington  on May 17, according to the court’s docket. Kerry
Khan will plead guilty to taking bribes and conspiring to
launder money, according to his lawyer, Jeffrey Weiner.  “My client has been cooperating with the U.S.,” Weiner
said in an interview. “As a result of my client’s candor and
love for his son we’ve worked out a plea that includes both
father and son.”  Six others, including another former Army Corps official,
have pleaded guilty in what prosecutors called one of the “most
brazen” frauds in federal contracting history. The scheme
targeted government contracts worth about $1 billion, they said.  The maximum sentence for bribery is 15 years in prison and
the maximum sentence for conspiracy to commit  money laundering 
is 20 years.  Weiner declined to say what charge Lee Khan will plead to.  Lee Khan’s lawyer, Edward Sussman, said he and his client
were still negotiating with prosecutors.  “There’s no firm agreement with regard to Lee Khan at this
point, though we are looking forward to a resolution in this
case,” Sussman said in an interview.  Bill Miller , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen,
declined to comment.  In February, former Army Corps contracting official Michael
A. Alexander admitted to taking bribes and conspiring to launder
money.  Alexander said he and Kerry Khan funneled more than $45
million through a contract he managed, which resulted in $20
million of kickbacks generated by overbilling.  The case is U.S. v. Khan, 1:11-cr-00276, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 