-- Secret Service Head Backs Agent Firings, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-04-20T06:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/secret-service-head-backs-agent-firings-lawmaker-says.html
Pressure built in Congress for the
Secret Service to fire the remaining agents and officers
involved in a prostitution scandal in  Colombia  that may become
an election-year distraction for lawmakers and the White House.  Democratic and Republican members of Congress were united
in denouncing the episode involving 11 agents who were in the
resort town of Cartagena preparing for President Barack Obama’s
arrival at the Summit of the Americas.  “I don’t see how those who were involved in this would be
able to continue in their work,” House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California told reporters yesterday. “Those people
who were responsible have brought disgrace and it’s
disgusting.”  The fitness of any agent implicated in the episode is
called into question because “everything in being a Secret
Service agent is about judgment,” said Representative  Darrell Issa , the California Republican who is chairman of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee. “You have to have
judgment, or the protected person is in danger,” he said,
calling the episode “one of the most egregious breaches of
judgment by any standard.”  Two Secret Service employees involved in the episode have
left the agency and a third is in the process of being
dismissed. One of the people being removed is Greg Stokes, a
supervisor in the K-9 unit, said a person familiar with the
matter who wasn’t authorized to speak about it publicly.  ‘Unnecessary’ Disclosure  Ed Donovan, a Secret Service spokesman, declined to comment
on the names of those involved. The Washington Post yesterday
named two people who are leaving the agency, including Stokes.  Efforts last night to reach Lawrence Berger, general
counsel of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association
which is representing Stokes and the other Secret Service
employees, were unsuccessful.  Jon Adler, president of the Federal Law Enforcement
Officers Association, declined last night to name the people
involved and said he would call for a criminal investigation if
all the names were released.  “This is an ongoing investigation and it is entirely
inappropriate and unnecessary to disclose the names of the
accused,” Adler said.  The eight other Secret Service employees are on
administrative leave with their security clearances suspended.  More Resignations  House Homeland Security Committee Chairman  Peter King  said
he has been informed by people close to the investigation that
more resignations may be forthcoming as early as today.  “I was told by people not to be surprised,” said King, a
New York Republican.  The investigation has expanded beyond the 11 agents to
other Secret Service employees who were in Colombia at the time
of the incident and the hotels where they stayed, King said.  At least 10 members of the military also were implicated,
and the Defense Department is conducting a separate
investigation.  Reports about the misconduct overshadowed Obama’s
appearance at the Summit of the Americas, which concluded April
15 and was supposed to focus on the economy, trade and U.S.
engagement in  Latin America . The agents were relieved of duty
and sent back to the U.S. before Obama arrived in Colombia.  Secret Service Director Mark Sullivan was so upset by the
incident that he voiced frustration over government rules
barring their immediate dismissal, Maryland Representative
 Elijah Cummings  said.  ‘On the Spot’  The Secret Service chief told Cummings during a one-hour
meeting April 17 that “if it were up to him, every single one
of them would have been fired on the spot,” the Democratic
lawmaker told reporters.  Sullivan is “thoroughly convinced” that the agency’s
security wasn’t compromised by the episode in the resort town of
Cartagena just before Obama was set to arrive for the summit,
said Cummings, the top Democrat on the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee.  Donovan declined to comment on Cummings’s characterization
of his conversation with Sullivan, saying “we have eight
employees still in the process” of being investigated.  Obama retains confidence in Sullivan and wants to await the
outcome of the service’s inquiry before making any judgments on
the case, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday.  “It is very much in the interest of everyone,” Carney
said, “to allow this investigation to be completed before we
make judgments on conclusions we don’t yet have.”  ‘Play Time’  While most of the remarks by lawmakers focused on the
Secret Service, there were signs that the incident, along with a
financial scandal involving the  General Services Administration ,
may play into the 2012 political campaign.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , asked about
the scandals in an interview with syndicated radio host  Laura Ingraham  on April 18, said that he’d get rid of people who have
“put their play time and their personal interest ahead of the
interests of the nation.” He expressed confidence in the Secret
Service.  Carney, responding to reporters’ questions yesterday,
brushed aside comments by Republican Senator  Jeff Sessions  of
 Alabama  that the Secret Service case raised questions about
Obama’s management of the executive branch.  “That sounds very much like a lawmaker attempting to
politicize something that is not at all political,” Carney
said.  Polygraph Examinations  More details of the Secret Service’s own investigation came
to light on April 18. A prostitute told an agent she met in a
nightclub before going to his hotel that her price for the
evening was $800, said Texas Republican Representative Mike McCaul, the chairman of a House Homeland Security oversight
subcommittee, whose staff was briefed by the Secret Service.  Later, the two got into a dispute over her demand to be
paid.  The agents “didn’t indicate to her they were  law
enforcement  or Secret Service agents,” McCaul said.  The Secret Service is giving polygraph examinations as part
of the investigation, King said. Some of the agents contend they
didn’t know they were consorting with prostitutes, he said.  All the employees have taken drug tests, King said. He said
he wasn’t aware of any that were positive. Maids who cleaned the
agents’ rooms didn’t find any drugs, he said.  The agency’s investigators are looking at videotape of the
hotel lobby and are interviewing hotel workers and the women
involved.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  