-- Sell Kiwi Against Commodity Peer Canada, BNP Paribas Says
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-04-20T02:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/sell-kiwi-against-commodity-peer-canada-bnp-paribas-says.html
(Corrects to say levels are in terms of Canadian cents per
 New Zealand  dollar in second paragraph.)  Investors should bet the New
Zealand currency will fall against its commodity-linked peer the
Canadian dollar as the nation’s central banks diverge in policy
outlooks, BNP Paribas SA said.  Enter the trade at current levels with the target of 78
Canadian cents per New Zealand dollar, Michael Sneyd, a currency
strategist for BNP Paribas in  London , wrote to clients today.
The trade should be abandoned if the so-called kiwi rises to
82.20 Canadian cents.  New Zealand’s currency was 0.1 percent stronger against the
so-called loonie at 80.94 at 3:09 p.m. in New York. It’s the
best performer this year against nine-developed nation
counterparts, according to the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes.  BNP expects the  Bank of Canada  to raise benchmark  interest
rates  in the second quarter of next year after the central bank
said higher borrowing costs “may become appropriate” at a
meeting April 17.  Odds of an increase in the central bank’s target lending
rate by the October meeting were about 59 percent today,
according to Bloomberg calculations on overnight index swaps.
They were about 27 percent on April 5.  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand, which meets April 25, has
warned that a strong currency may delay rate increases. As rises
in inflation slow, the central bank is provided with a reason
not to make policy changes, Sneyd wrote in the research note.
Sneyd couldn’t be reached for comment.  The cross trade has broken below technical support at 81.20
and may develop a “double top,” Sneyd wrote. The pattern
consists of two well-defined peaks with a moderate valley in
between and a break of the neckline, the trough between the
peaks, is often regarded as a bearish signal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  