-- Shui On to Accelerate Chongqing Project After Bo’s Ouster
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-20T08:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/shui-on-to-accelerate-chongqing-development-after-bo-s-ouster.html
Shui On Land Ltd. (272) , which developed
the Xintiandi entertainment complex from century-old homes in
Shanghai, plans to boost construction in Chongqing to capture
rising demand in China’s western city.  The Shanghai-based developer started marketing its
Chongqing Tiandi cluster this week for a project that includes
offices, a luxury hotel and retail space, Chief Executive
Officer Freddy Lee said in a phone interview yesterday. It’s the
company’s biggest project by floor area, targeting 3.6 million
square meters (38.7 million square feet).  Shui On, controlled by Hong Kong billionaire Vincent Lo, is
accelerating development in Chongqing even after the downfall of
Bo Xilai, the disgraced former leader of the city, as it
replicates its Xintiandi model around the country.  Gross
domestic product  in Chongqing,  China ’s most populous
municipality, rose 16 percent last year, while the city
government predicted another 15 percent expansion this year.  “I don’t see any big impact,” Lee said. “Business-luring
activities remained the same in the city. Chongqing is the
financial and commercial hub in southwestern China. A lot of
people around the region would love to move there.”  Shopping space in Chongqing’s five major commercial
districts will more than double to 4.5 million square meters by
2013, according to figures compiled by Savills Plc.  Bo’s Ouster  The government on April 10 suspended Bo from the ruling
Politburo, saying he was “suspected of being involved in
serious discipline violations,” China’s official Xinhua News
Agency reported.  Xintiandi , which means New Heaven and Earth in Chinese, is
a residential and commercial complex built through the
redevelopment of houses dating back to the 19th and 20th
centuries. The project attracted local and international chains
including Paulaner Brahaus and Starbucks Corp.  Shui On Land said last year it will spend about 8 billion
yuan ($1.3 billion) to develop an office and restaurant precinct
Hongqiao Tiandi near Shanghai’s smaller airport and high-speed
rail station.  The company bought the land for Chongqing Tiandi in 2003.
Lee declined to say to give details on the investment for the
project, adding that it’s “hard to estimate” at this stage.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  