-- Skadden, Cleary, Wachtell, Hogan, O’Melveny: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-04-20T10:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/skadden-cleary-wachtell-hogan-o-melveny-business-of-law.html
Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  almost
doubled in trading as the U.S.-based biotechnology company put
itself up for sale after rejecting a $2.59 billion acquisition
bid from  GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   Human Genome hired Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
and DLA Piper LLP as legal counsel and Goldman, Sachs & Co. and
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC as financial advisers.
Skadden’s lawyers are Washington mergers and acquisitions
attorneys Marc Gerber and Michael Rogan. DLA didn’t return phone
calls and e-mails seeking the names of lawyers involved.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  and Wachtell, Lipton,
Rosen & Katz are providing legal advice to Glaxo and  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) 
and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are acting as financial advisers. The
principal lawyers for Cleary are M&A partners Victor Lewkow,
Benet O’Reilly and Meredith Kotler, and associate Kimberly
Spoerri. All are based in  New York . Wachtell’s lawyers are New
York corporate partners Adam Emmerich and David Lam.  Human Genome, a partner with London-based Glaxo on the
lupus treatment Benlysta, rose 98 percent to $14.17 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading. Glaxo’s $13-a-share cash offer, an 81
percent premium to the April 18 closing price of $7.17, doesn’t
reflect the drug developer’s value, Rockville, Maryland-based
Human Genome said yesterday in a statement that indicated the
company may shop itself to others.  The rejection reflects concerns from Human Genome
 stockholders  who bought at a price higher than the offer, said
two people with knowledge of the matter. All but three of the 25
largest shareholders acquired stock at a higher price, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.  Human Genome  decided to go public with Glaxo’s offer and
put itself up for sale, anticipating interest from large
pharmaceutical companies may drive up the price, the people
said.  By moving to try to acquire Human Genome now, Glaxo is
taking advantage of a  76 percent slide  in the biotech’s shares
from their 2011 peak. Sales growth for Benlysta, Human Genome’s
first drug on the market, has disappointed investors, and the
company may not become profitable for years.  “There can be no assurance that any transaction will
occur,” Human Genome said. “HGS does not intend to discuss the
status of its evaluation unless and until a specific transaction
has been approved.”  For more, click here.  Wins  Ex-Goldman Sachs Employee Spared Prison for Aiding Insider Probe  A former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  employee who said he gave
away “thousands” of dollars he received from an insider-
trading scheme to New York’s homeless was sentenced to probation
instead of prison.  Gautham Shankar, 38, of New Canaan,  Connecticut , who was
represented by New York lawyer  Frederick Sosinsky,  was ordered
yesterday by U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in New York to
serve three years of probation, including the first six months
confined to his home.  Shankar, who faced as long as 37 months in prison,
collected less than $450,000 in the scheme, Sosinsky said. The
judge also fined Shankar $25,000 and directed him to forfeit
$448,437.  Shankar, who also worked as a trader at Schottenfeld Group
LLC, was one of more than 20 people charged by the U.S. in
overlapping insider trading cases involving Galleon Group LLC
founder  Raj Rajaratnam . Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year prison
term after being convicted of 14 counts of conspiracy and
securities fraud for trading on inside information.  Shankar, who worked on the sales desk at Goldman Sachs from
July 2000 until February 2003, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and
securities fraud in October 2009. He admitted that while working
at Schottenfeld, he passed and profited from illegal tips he
obtained from Zvi Goffer, a former Galleon Group employee, and
 Thomas Hardin , a former analyst at Lanexa Global Management LP.  Sullivan said it was important to reward Shankar for
cooperating early in the government’s investigation. Shankar
assisted prosecutors for more than a year before the charges
were filed, Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish told Sullivan
April 18.  “We’re relieved that this chapter of Mr. Shankar’s life is
over,” Sosinsky said.  The case is U.S. v. Shankar, 09-cr-996, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  For more, click here.  News  Dewey Life Sciences Head Joins O’Melveny in New York  O’Melveny & Myers LLP’s New York office said Stanton J. Lovenworth joined the firm as counsel in the health care and
life sciences practice from Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP.  The former chairman of Dewey’s life sciences global
industry sector group and a former head of its technology and
intellectual property transactions practice group, Lovenworth
represents clients in intellectual property transactions,
mergers and acquisitions, and other corporate matters, with a
focus on the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries,
O’Melveny said in a statement.  “Growing our transactions platform in New York is a key
priority,” O’Melveny Chairman Bradley J. Butwin said in a
statement. “Stan’s arrival continues that trend.”  O’Melveny has 800 lawyers in 15 offices worldwide.  Dewey has lost more than 60 partners, or more than
20 percent of its partners, since the start of the year as the
firm struggles with defections over compensation. On April 18,
Bloomberg News reported that Dewey’s 42-lawyer Moscow outpost
was looking to decamp to another U.S.  law firm .  The Lawyer  reported  yesterday that the firm’s Italian
partners were attempting to separate themselves from the firm.
Reuters reported yesterday that bankruptcy lawyer Albert Togut,
of Togut, Segal & Segal LLP, was hired by the firm, although in
what capacity is unclear. At Above The Law, the blog reported
that the firm was deferring incoming associates to January and
considering closing the Hong Kong office.  Dewey officials didn’t return an e-mail after regular
business hours seeking comment on Lovenworth’s departure.  TD Bank Faces Sanctions Request After Losing $67 Million Verdict  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , after losing a $67 million verdict
over claims it aided a $1.2 billion  Ponzi scheme , should be
sanctioned for “altering” a document used at trial, David
Mandel of Miami’s  Mandel & Mandel LLP , an attorney for investor
Coquina Investments, said in court papers.  Coquina, which won the verdict on Jan. 18 in federal court
in Miami, seeks sanctions after a trial over whether TD Bank
should have detected money laundering that supported a Ponzi
scheme that disbarred attorney Scott Rothstein ran out of his
law firm.  The unaltered document shows TD Bank designated Rothstein,
Rosenfeldt & Adler as “HIGH RISK” in letters on a bright red
band at the top of the page, according to a March 26 filing by
Coquina. The document, which Coquina introduced into evidence
after getting it before trial from TD Bank, has a black bar that
obscures the words, according to the filing.  TD Bank,  Canada ’s second-largest lender, doesn’t comment on
litigation, spokeswoman Rebecca Acevedo said April 18 in an e-
mail. The bank’s law firm, Greenberg Traurig LLP, referred
questions to Acevedo, who declined to comment on their behalf.  In a court filing on April 12, the bank denied Coquina’s
claims of “altering a key document and working a fraud on the
court and the jury.” Rather, it blamed problems in the copying
process during the pretrial exchange of evidence known as
discovery. That process inadvertently blackened all colored
headers, including the words “high risk,” on the documents.  “We sincerely regret this copying error,” TD Bank said in
a motion filed by Greenberg. “But it was that (i.e., an error),
and not an effort to hide the ‘high risk’ designation.”  “TD Bank’s purposeful withholding of the true original RRA
Customer Due Diligence Form constitutes evidence of willful bad
faith,” according to Coquina’s motion. Failure by the bank and
its lawyers to say anything about the document being admitted
into evidence “demonstrates both intentional malfeasance and a
flagrant lack of candor to the court.”  Coquina, based in Corpus Christi, Texas, seeks “just and
appropriate” sanctions and a referral to federal prosecutors
for investigation of possible obstruction of justice charges.  Jurors deliberated about four hours before reaching their
verdict after a trial before U.S. District Judge Marcia Cooke.  The verdict was for $32 million in compensatory damages and
$35 million in punitive damages, the type designed to punish.  Rothstein pleaded guilty to racketeering, money laundering
and wire fraud and is serving a 50-year prison term. Eight
people have been accused of helping him run the fraud.  The case is Coquina Investments v. Rothstein, 0:10-
cv-60786, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  For more, click here.  Firm News  Hogan Lovells Creates Association with Indonesia Firm  Hogan Lovells  LLP has entered into an association with
 Indonesia  law firm, Hermawan Juniarto, because of Hogan’s
expanding involvement in Indonesian matters in the energy,
natural resources and infrastructure sectors, the firm said in a
statement.  Hermawan Juniarto, based in Jakarta, has five partners and
17 associates, with corporate, finance, infrastructure, energy
and litigation practices.  Hogan Lovells says the association extends its plans to
continue development of a South-East  Asia  practice following the
firm’s relocation to the new Singapore office.  “Indonesia is the largest economy in South-East Asia, a
member of the G-20 major economies, a country with extensive
natural resources, a burgeoning domestic economy and an enviable
demographic projection,” Crispin Rapinet, Hogan Lovells
regional managing partner for Asia and the  Middle East , said in
a statement. “The prospects for sustainable growth are
impressive and supported by increasing inbound investment from
our global client base.”  Moves  Labor Department Attorney Joins O’Melveny in Washington  Gregory Jacob, a former solicitor at the U.S. Department of
Labor from 2007 to 2009, joined O’Melveny & Myers LLP as a
partner in the firm’s Washington office. He specializes in ERISA
and employment matters and will be a member of the financial-
services practice group.  Jacob held positions in the White House, Justice Department
and Labor Department during President  George W. Bush ’s
administration, according to a statement from the firm. As the
solicitor in the Labor Department, he was the agency’s third-
ranking official and chief legal officer.  Before joining O’Melveny, Jacob was a partner in the
Washington office of Winston & Strawn LLP.  O’Melveny has about 800 lawyers in 15 offices worldwide.  Jackson Walker Houston Tax Partner Jumps to Mayer Brown  Mayer Brown LLP added partner Shawn R. O’Brien to the
firm’s tax controversy practice in the Houston office. O’Brien
formerly managed the tax controversy practice group at Jackson
Walker LLP in Houston.  O’Brien represents clients in civil and criminal tax
controversies and in dispute resolution with state and federal
taxing authorities. He also advises corporations, partnerships
and LLCs seeking corporate and tax advice on transactions such
as mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, divestitures,
leveraged buyouts, structured financings and oil and gas deals,
according to a statement.  Mayer Brown has 20 offices worldwide. The firm has seven
offices in the U.S., five in  Europe  and eight in Asia, according
to its website.  Seyforth Shaw Team Jumps to Littler Mendelson in Chicago  Employment and labor law firm Littler Mendelson PC added a
group of three attorneys to the firm’s employee benefits and
executive compensation practice.  Two new shareholders, David M. Weiner and Judith L. Wethall
and associate D. Finn Pressly, previously at Seyfarth Shaw LLP,
joined the firm’s  Chicago  office.  The trio have benefit, health and welfare benefit and
executive compensation experience, the firm said. Littler has
added four other lawyers to the practice in the past six months
in Chicago,  Los Angeles  and Pittsburgh.  Littler Mendelson has more than 900 attorneys in 56
offices.  Jones Day Adds O’Brien to London Banking & Finance Practice  Jones Day announced that Dominic O’Brien joined the London
office of the firm’s banking and finance practice from Addleshaw
Goddard LLP. O’Brien advises banks and other financial
institutions on corporate financings and project financings.  Jones Day has more than 2,500 lawyers worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  