-- South Asia to Get Normal Monsoon Rainfall for Third Year
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2012-04-20T11:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/south-asia-to-get-normal-monsoon-rainfall-for-third-year.html
Monsoon rainfall over  South Asia 
will be normal for a third year this season, potentially
increasing plantings of rice, soybeans and sugar cane, boosting
global food supplies, regional forecasters said.  El Nino weather conditions, which can parch parts of  Asia ,
may emerge only in the later part of the June-September monsoon
season and most forecasts indicate neutral conditions and normal
rains, the South Asian Climate Outlook Forum said in a statement
in the western Indian city of Pune today.  Farmers in South Asia may plant more of rice, corn, sugar
cane and cotton on normal showers, helping India sustain exports
and ease global  food prices  that the United Nations estimates
advanced for a third month in March. The monsoon season is vital
to  India ,  Pakistan  and Sri Lanka, where farming is a key
contributor to economic growth.  A normal monsoon “is more important for inflation as we
see food prices have started rising again,” said  Sonal Varma ,
an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Mumbai. “If you have a
normal monsoon it will stabilize food prices.”  The benchmark  wholesale-price index  rose 6.89 percent in
March from a year earlier, exceeding the median 6.65 percent
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. While Indian inflation has
eased from more than 9 percent recorded in most of 2011, it
remains the fastest in the so-called BRIC group of largest
emerging economies that also includes Brazil, Russia and  China .  The  Reserve Bank  of India cut  borrowing costs  on April 17
for the first time since 2009, seeking to bolster an economy the
government estimates expanded 6.9 percent in the 12 months
through March, the least in three years.  Tractors, Televisions  Monsoon rain in India, the main source of irrigation for
the nation’s 235 million farmers, was 101 percent of a 50-year
average last year, boosting water levels in dams. Sowing of
monsoon crops begins in June and harvesting starts in September.  “Monsoon will further have an impact on earnings of
consumer goods makers,” Nomura’s Varma said.  Agriculture makes up almost 14 percent of  India’s economy 
and a bumper harvest will boost rural incomes, lifting sales of
everything from tractors to cars and televisions.  India’s output of food grains from  rice  to wheat, lentils
and corn is estimated to climb to a record 250.4 million tons in
the year ending June after a normal monsoon and cooler winter
boosted yields, according to the farm ministry. The country
lifted bans on exports of non-basmati rice and wheat in
September after more than three years.  Sugar Exports  Sugar production  in the world’s second-largest grower in
the season starting Oct. 1 may at least match an estimated range
of 25 million tons to 25.5 million tons this year, according to
Food Minister K.V. Thomas. India will continue to export sugar
for a third year, he said on April 17.  An increase in cotton output may allow India to ease curbs
on exports, while higher oilseeds output may trim overseas
purchases of  palm oil . The South Asian nation is the world’s
biggest palm oil importer and buys the cooking oil from
Indonesia and  Malaysia , the largest producers.  Precipitation over southern and northwest India, the
nation’s main cane, cotton, coffee and rice-growing regions, may
be below normal this year, while central India, which includes
the top soybean-producing areas, may receive normal showers, the
climate forum said.  Rainfall may be normal in Afghanistan, Myanmar and Bhutan,
while showers in  Sri Lanka  will be below normal, the forum said.
Some parts of Pakistan may get below average rains, it said.  “Emergence of weak El Nino conditions during the later
part of the monsoon season may not be ruled out,” the
forecasters said. “If the El Nino conditions do emerge as
indicated by some models, it may have some adverse impact on the
monsoon rainfall over the region, particularly during the later
part of the season.”  An El Nino is the periodic warming of the Pacific Ocean
surface off the western coast of  South America  that can disrupt
weather patterns in various parts of the world. 