-- South Sudan Says It’s Pulling Out of Oil-Rich Heglig Region
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-04-20T13:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/south-sudan-says-it-s-pulling-out-of-oil-rich-heglig-region-1-.html
South Sudan  said it’s withdrawing
its forces from the disputed border region of Heglig as Sudan’s
defense minister said Sudanese soldiers drove them out.  “An orderly withdrawal will commence immediately and shall
be completed within three days,” government spokesman Barnaba Marial Benjamin told reporters today in Juba, the capital. The
decision to pull out is “without prejudice to our stand” that
Heglig is part of South Sudan, he said.  Sudanese Defense Minister Abdel Raheem Muhammad Hussein
said in a speech on state television that his country’s forces
entered the region at 1:15 p.m. today and liberated Heglig town.
“The enemy suffered huge losses,” he said.  South Sudan occupied the oil-rich Heglig region on April 10
in an escalation of fighting between the two countries. United
Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon yesterday called the move
an “ illegal act .” While both nations claim Heglig, Sudan has
administered its  oil fields  since the south seceded in July,
assuming control of about three-quarters of the formerly united
country’s production of 490,000 barrels a day.  After southern forces occupied the area, oil production of
40,000 barrels a day has been shut down, out of Sudan’s total
output of 115,000 barrels a day, the Sudanese ambassador to
 Kenya , Kamal Ismail Saeed, said in Nairobi on April 18.  Oil Facility Burning  Sudan will seek compensation from South Sudan for the
damage caused by its occupation of Heglig, Omar Dahab, head of
the international cooperation department at the Foreign
Ministry, said in a phone interview from Khartoum, the Sudanese
capital. The damage is still being assessed, he said.  South  Sudan ’s military spokesman, Philip Aguer, said
Sudanese forces yesterday bombed the central processing facility
in Heglig. “That facility has been burning through the night,”
he told reporters today in Juba.  Benjamin called on Sudan to halt aerial bombardments and
ground incursions into South Sudan, while the U.K. government
urged the two countries to resume negotiations.  “We hope the withdrawal will be orderly and that both
sides will refrain from further military action,” Alastair
McPhail, the U.K. ambassador to South Sudan, told reporters
today in Juba.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan via Nairobi at   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Karl Maier  at 
 kmaier2@bloomberg.net . 