-- Spain, Italy Make ‘Remarkable’ Progress on Debt, Draghi Says
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-04-20T22:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/spain-italy-make-remarkable-progress-on-debt-draghi-says-1-.html
Spain and  Italy  are making
“remarkable” progress implementing structural changes needed
to stave off their debt crisis, European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said.  “What they have done already is remarkable,” Draghi told
reporters in Washington, where he is attending meetings at the
 International Monetary Fund . The countries will “have to
continue working,” he said.  The overhaul is part of the “four-pillar” strategy
European policy makers are pursuing to resolve the region’s debt
crisis, Draghi said. The strategy also includes expanding IMF
firepower, improving European governance and maintaining price
stability, he added.  Governments committed more than $430 billion in fresh money
to the IMF after the Group of 20 finance ministers and central
bankers met in  Washington  today to help it protect the world
economy against debt turmoil in Europe. The bigger financial
backstop was an endorsement of Europe’s stepped-up efforts to
quell its two-year crisis, even as policy makers urged the
region’s governments to do even more to restore fiscal health
and spur economic growth.  Draghi said the priority of the ECB is to control
 inflation,  while it is the responsibility of governments to put
the fiscal house in order.  Defending the ECB’s role in the debt crisis, Draghi said
its program to make unlimited three-year loans to financial
institutions was aimed at stemming a credit crunch, rather than
reducing the stress on the governments, he said. Yields on
 government bonds , including those of Spain and Italy, have
fallen since the ECB lent banks more than 1 trillion euros in
two three-year operations since last year.  Draghi added that inflation expectations in Europe are
“solidly anchored.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  