-- Spain May Privatize Public TV as Rajoy Reins in Regions
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-04-20T16:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/spain-may-privatize-public-tv-as-rajoy-reins-in-regions.html
Spain’s Cabinet passed a bill to
allow regions to sell public broadcasters while approving cuts
to health and education, as the  People’s Party  government
tightens its grip on the budgets of regional administrations.  Regions will be able to choose how to run their public
broadcasters, and if they keep them the channels won’t be
allowed to run deficits, Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria told reporters in  Madrid  today.  The Cabinet also passed measures designed to save regions
10 billion euros ($13 billion) in health and education including
higher university fees and greater taxpayer contributions to the
cost of drugs.  Spain’s four-month old government has increased taxes for
wage earners and companies, reduced subsidies and knocked 54
percent off the Foreign Ministry’s budget in its attempt to
reorder public finances. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is now
focusing on the regions, which spend most of their budgets on
health and education, and he’s created legislation that allows
the government to intervene when the states flout budget rules.  The bill on regional broadcasters will be sent to
Parliament for urgent approval, Saenz said. The measures on
health and education, which include limits on foreigners’ use of
state health care, were set with regional leaders this week.  Spanish  bond  yields rose to 5.967 percent today from 5.925
percent yesterday, swelling the extra yield compared with German
borrowing costs to 426 basis points.  Regional Costs  Regions are crucial to the government’s efforts to rein in
the  deficit  as they manage hospitals and schools and hire about
half of all public workers. All but one region missed its  budget 
goal last year, pushing the national shortfall to 8.5 percent of
gross domestic product and topping the 6 percent target.  The government is struggling to restore investors’
confidence, even as Rajoy undertakes the deepest overhaul of
legislation since the nation returned to democracy three decades
ago. Rajoy has revamped labor rules, tightened the budget law,
and given the central government unprecedented power to
intervene in regional administrations when they fail to meet
budget commitments.  The People’s Party, which has the largest majority that any
party has secured in the national parliament since 1982, also
controls 11 of the 17 regions, strengthening Rajoy’s ability to
impose cuts. Catalonia, the biggest region, is run by a
nationalist party that seeks more autonomy from  Spain , and the
third-biggest, Andalusia, is run by the Socialists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  