-- Spain Hits Out at Argentine Biodiesel, Rues Lack of Moves
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-04-20T16:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/spain-hits-out-at-argentine-biodiesel-rues-lack-of-moves.html
Spain  will undermine demand for
Argentine biodiesel and continue to push for retaliation after
the South American country nationalized the local unit of  Repsol
YPF SA (REP) , Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said.  A ministerial order will be signed today offering
incentives to use Spanish and European Union biodiesel, she said
today. “Spain will continue to seek diplomatic measures and
actions in all forums,” Saenz de Santamaria said after a
Cabinet meeting, without offering further details.  Spain’s response marks a step down from pledges this week
from Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria, who threatened to
retaliate with “clear and decisive” measures on trade,
industry and energy. Repsol Chairman  Antonio Brufau  this week
called the expropriation illegal and estimated Repsol’s
potential loss at 5.7 billion euros ($7.5 billion).  The European Parliament called the nationalization an
“attack” on business in a non-binding resolution today and
said the EU should consider withdrawing tariff benefits for
 Argentina .  Repsol’s first option for countering the seizure lies in
the enforcement of an investment treaty between Spain and
Argentina, the European Commission said on April 17. The
commission ruled out a World Trade Organization complaint and
said Spain would break European and international law by
unilaterally imposing trade curbs on Argentina.  In a symbolic protest, the EU canceled an April 19-20
policy dialogue with Argentina on economic and trade issues. The
meeting, the 10th in two decades, was to be chaired by Christian
Leffler, head of the Americas section in the EU foreign service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  