-- Splunk CEO Twice Zuckerberg’s Age Sees Stock Soar in IPO
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-04-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/splunk-ceo-twice-zuckerberg-s-age-sees-stock-soar-in-ipo.html
Splunk Inc.’s Godfrey Sullivan
doesn’t fit the profile of the young hotshot Silicon Valley
executive. At age 58, he’s been in the technology industry
longer than  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s  Mark Zuckerberg  has been alive.  Investors are more focused on what the executives have in
common: initial public offerings. Splunk, which makes software
that helps companies analyze data, more than doubled in its
debut yesterday, valuing the company at $3.28 billion. For Chief
Executive Officer Sullivan, the IPO follows three decades in
technology, including 11 years at Apple Inc. and the $3.3
billion sale of Hyperion Solutions Corp.  He isn’t slowing down. Sullivan took over San Francisco-
based Splunk in 2008, the year after selling Hyperion to  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL) , and he spent the next five years turning a search engine
for businesses into a product used by more than 3,700 customers
to collect, index and analyze data. Sales have jumped more than
13-fold since he joined, meeting demand from customers including
 Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   “After Hyperion, I played about three rounds of golf and
realized I wasn’t ready to join the graveyard of ex-CEOs,”
Sullivan said in an interview yesterday. “I wanted to look back
on my career and say I was able to take a young idea and turn it
into a global company.”  Sullivan, a native Texan who studied real estate and
economics at Baylor University, stands in contrast to the
youthful entrepreneurs who have gained recent riches. He’s more
than twice as old as Zuckerberg, the 27-year-old founder of
Facebook, who’s preparing for the biggest Web IPO ever. Groupon
Inc.’s  Andrew Mason  was 31 when his daily-deal site sold shares
in November -- four years younger than Jeremy Stoppelman at the
time of Yelp Inc.’s IPO in March.  ‘Scar Tissue’  “What I have to give back is 30 years’ worth of scar
tissue,” Sullivan said. In addition to his executive roles at
Splunk, where he is also chairman and president, he serves on
the boards of  Citrix Systems Inc. (CTXS)  and Informatica Corp.  Splunk started trading yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market
under the symbol SPLK, after raising $229.5 million in the IPO
on April 18. It jumped 109 percent to $35.48 at the New York
close.  The company was founded in 2004 by Erik Swan, Rob Das and
Michael Baum. Sullivan was hired four years later to turn the
startup into a potentially public company. He joined in
September 2008, just as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. was
collapsing, setting off the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression.  Facing Adversity  Adversity was a familiar setting for Sullivan, who had
joined Hyperion in October 2001, a month after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks on the U.S. Hyperion was also suffering from
the failed 1998 merger of Arbor Software Corp. and Hyperion
Software Corp. Sullivan helped surmount the downturn, creating a
market called business performance management software. He rose
to CEO in 2004.  Turning companies around and helping build them is what
Sullivan lives for, said David Odell, who was Hyperion’s finance
chief from 2000 to 2006.  “For Godfrey, it’s all good when you’re growing a
company,” said Odell, 48, who retired the year before the
Oracle deal and now lives in Park City,  Utah . “The customers
are happy, your development team is happy, your  sales (SPLK)  team is
making money and you’re providing people career opportunities.”  Odell said Sullivan changed the trajectory at Hyperion by
focusing on products that helped customers gauge whether they
were meeting goals. He aligned the development, marketing and
sales teams around that mission, lifting Hyperion’s market value
more than fivefold by the time of the Oracle acquisition.  Autodesk Stint  Sullivan began his career at Cupertino, California-based
Apple in 1981 and spent 11 years in sales, marketing and
operations. He worked under Bill Campbell, a former vice
president and current board member, who gave Sullivan his first
management role in the mid-1980s. Sullivan left for San Rafael,
California-based  Autodesk Inc. (ADSK)  in 1992, where he spent eight
years. After that, he was briefly CEO of a startup and then
joined Hyperion in  Santa Clara ,  California .  When not in the office or on an airplane, Sullivan could
often be found in the mountains of northern California,
participating in a little-known race called  Ride & Tie . The
sport involves two people and a horse, with the teammates
alternating between riding the horse and running for as much as
100 miles. Sullivan said he raced for 25 years, before quitting
two years ago to focus on Splunk.  “I had more fun doing Ride & Tie over the years than just
about anything,” he said. “You see a lot of crazy things in
the mountains.”  Shunning Retirement  While Sullivan could have retired after leaving Hyperion,
his former colleagues knew he wouldn’t. Brian Gentile, CEO of
San Francisco-based Jaspersoft Corp., worked with Sullivan at
 Apple (AAPL)  and overlapped with him again, when Gentile sold Brio
Software Inc. to Hyperion in 2003. Gentile, whose startup helps
businesses make sense of large amounts of data, said he and
Sullivan meet for lunch on occasion to compare notes.  “You’d think he was 35, taking his company public,” said
Gentile, who is 10 years younger than Sullivan. “He is so
energetic after all he’s done in his career. He doesn’t look
much different than he did at Apple.”  Since Sullivan took the helm at Splunk, its sales ballooned
to $121 million in the year ended Jan. 31 from $9.07 million
four years earlier. While revenue surged 83 percent in fiscal
2012, the annual net loss jumped to $11 million from $3.81
million a year earlier on increased spending for sales and
marketing. Splunk’s largest customers include social-game
company Zynga, cable-TV provider Comcast,  Bank of America Corp. 
and  Harvard University .  ‘Big-Cap CEO’  “It’s as if you’ve had the experience and leadership
capabilities of a big-cap CEO from the time it was pretty
small,” said John Connors, a Splunk board member and partner at
Ignition Partners in Bellevue,  Washington .  Splunk is the first of the so-called big-data companies to
go public, capitalizing on demand for software that companies
use to search, analyze and monitor the surge in data on their
networks. The company has deep-pocketed competitors, including
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Adobe Systems Inc. in the Web-analytics market,
and EMC Corp. and International Business Corp. in business-
intelligence software.  Silicon Valley is paying attention. Because Splunk is the
first to debut for  Wall Street , there’s increased pressure on
the company to put up numbers, said Brooke Seawell, a venture
partner at  New Enterprise Associates , who serves on
Informatica’s board with Sullivan. Startups developing big-data
technology include Jaspersoft, Cloudera Inc. and Opera Solutions
LLC.  “The spotlight will be on them,” said Seawell, from his
office in  Menlo Park , California. “I think they’ll do a good
job, and that will pave the way for other big-data-oriented
companies that are coming along behind them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  