-- Spy Agency’s Cyber Contest Won by U.S. Air Force Academy
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-04-20T18:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/spy-agency-s-cyber-contest-won-by-u-s-air-force-academy.html
Undergraduates at the U.S. Air
Force Academy won an annual cyber defense contest run by the
National Security Agency to promote skills in protecting
electronic networks.  A team of Air Force cadets beat their Army, Navy and Coast
Guard counterparts in four days of exercises staged by the NSA,
which is responsible for code-breaking and electronic
surveillance, the Fort Meade, Maryland-based agency said today.  For students at the academies, where the curriculum
includes the study of ancient war strategies, the annual contest
helps challenge the next generation of military leaders to
defend  computer networks  from cyber attacks, which Defense
Secretary Leon Panetta has called the “weapon of the future.”  “The folks who’re going to be the future commanders will
have a cyber appreciation and awareness that is very important
to us,” Tony Sager, chief operating officer at the NSA’s
Information Assurance Directorate told reporters yesterday.  Younger military officers who grew up with Facebook,
Twitter and the Internet expect to be connected “with everyone
on Earth all the time are much more comfortable with
technology,” Sager said. They also understand vulnerabilities
of networks better than “senior military folks who struggle to
understand the problem,” said Sager who created the contest in
2000.  Cadets from the Air Force Academy in  Colorado  Springs,
Colorado, were ranked best at defending their network from a
series of cyber attacks in the 12th annual contest, Vanee Vines,
an agency spokeswoman said today. It was the third win for the
Air Force students. The U.S. Military Academy at  West Point ,  New
York , won the contest six times, including last year. The U.S.
Naval Academy has won twice and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy
has won once.  Same Network  Military leaders who grew up thinking about how to counter
an adversary’s cannon or aircraft try to “map the cyber problem
in a similar way,” Sager said. The difference is that “you’re
doing home banking on the same network that’s used to control
power systems and some military applications,” he said. “It’s
very hard to isolate yourself.”  The cyber contest was run out of a  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
facility in an office park in Hanover,  Maryland . In a room
filled with make-shift tables, routers, cables and other
computer network paraphernalia, about 40 so-called red cell
members drawn from the military services and the NSA played the
role of hackers and attacked a dedicated network connecting them
with the military academies.  NSA Attackers  Students at the academies set up a virtual private network
used only for the contest, said James Cody, the NSA’s manager
for the cyber defense exercise.  A large, black skull-and-bones banner hung over the red-
cell team’s tables, and a cheer went up each time the team
penetrated the students’ network. After one successful attack
the red cell posted a sign on the students’ computer that read
“Your judgment is bad and you should feel bad.”  A live video feed from the academies showed students
huddled over their computers, strategizing ways to keep their
networks from being taken down by the NSA, which uses publicly
known techniques to attack them.  The exercise was overseen by a team of referees that set
the rules and adjudicated if attacks or defense measures
exceeded boundaries. Another team of so-called grey-cell members
deployed to the military academies to play the role of network
users.  “Students have read the books and written term papers, and
what they get from this exercise is a very realistic
experience” of what it takes to defend a network from attacks,
Cody said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ; 