-- Stand Your Ground Rollback Stalls as Gun Foes Clash With NRA
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-04-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/stand-your-ground-rollback-stalls-as-gun-foes-clash-with-nra.html
In the days after unarmed teenager
Trayvon Martin was shot dead in Florida,  Georgia  Representative
Rashad Taylor raced to undo his state’s version of a self-
defense law that may shield Martin’s killer.  The odds are against his success, Taylor said -- even after
nationwide public protests over the Martin case and laws adopted
in about half the states that expand the justifiable use of
lethal force for self defense. Taylor, 31, faces multiple
obstacles: He’s a Democrat in a Republican-controlled
Legislature that has favored gun rights.  “It’s definitely going to be an uphill battle,” said
Taylor, elected in 2008 to the state’s House of Representatives.
“People feel their right to bear arms is being threatened.”  Gun-control advocates are finding it difficult to
capitalize on outrage over the Martin case. The dynamics are
similar in other states where efforts are under way to weaken or
repeal the National Rifle Association-backed measures known as
Stand Your Ground. Lawmakers have introduced rollbacks in South
Carolina and  Louisiana  and say they plan to in  Wisconsin  and
 Texas .  The laws typically extend traditional self-defense rights
beyond homes to allow lethal force in public in response to a
perceived threat. When people feel they are in danger, they have
the right to respond with force even if they can retreat.  Martin Shooting  Proponents say the measures allow people to defend
themselves, while opponents argue they encourage vigilantes and
put public safety at risk.  The Martin shooting focused attention on the laws. Martin,
17, was killed in February by neighborhood watch volunteer
George Zimmerman in Sanford, Florida. Zimmerman, 28, followed
Martin, who was walking through a residential neighborhood after
a trip to a convenience store. Zimmerman said he fired in self
defense.  Zimmerman was arrested this month and charged with second-
degree murder after public protests. His lawyers have said he
will plead not guilty. The Stand Your Ground law may make him
hard to convict,  Florida  defense attorneys have said.  The killing of the black youth by a man whose father is
white and mother Hispanic sparked protests, a federal civil-
rights investigation and comment from President  Barack Obama ,
who said that if he had a son, the child would have looked like
Martin.  Florida Review  Governor  Rick Scott  of Florida, a Republican, ordered a
panel to review the state’s Stand Your Ground law.  Gun-control advocates have tried without success to
persuade lawmakers to pass more restrictive laws after previous
shootings, including a 2007 massacre at  Virginia Tech  that
killed 32 and the attempted assassination of U.S. Representative
 Gabrielle Giffords  of  Arizona  last year.  “It’s hard to get hopeful for reform, given the inability
of  gun-control  advocates to get laws adopted,” said Adam
Winkler, a University of  California , Los Angeles law professor
who wrote a book on the subject. “Lawmakers are practically
falling over each other to pass new, less restrictive gun
laws.”  “These laws were largely the product of the NRA,” he
said. “They’re not going to back down.”  Chris Cox, the NRA’s chief lobbyist, said he’s ready to
fight off challenges.  NRA Response  “The answer to any problem is never restricting the rights
of law-abiding people to defend themselves,” Cox said in an
interview. “We have this right. We’re going to fight for this
right. We’re going to defend the statutes that protect lawful
people for using guns for self-defense.”  Florida lawmakers in 2005 passed a Stand Your Ground law
that empowers residents to “meet force with force.” Other
states followed.  South Carolina  Representative Bakari Sellers, a Democrat
who authored a measure that would repeal his state’s law, said
he “wouldn’t put any real money” on his chances of its getting
approved.  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , a long-time advocate of
gun control, this month in  Washington  called for Stand Your
Ground laws to be repealed, saying they’re a “license to
murder.” The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  Legislative Sessions  Some legislatures won’t reconvene until next year, creating
another challenge for those trying to roll back the measures:
They may lose momentum as memory of the Martin case fades.  “Time sometimes does take out some of the momentum,” said
Glenn Ivey, a lawyer with the firm Venable LLP in Washington who
joined with Mayor Bloomberg to call for the laws to be
challenged. “Clearly, the gun lobby’s going to push back to
keep these laws in place, but whether they’re going to be able
to do that is an open question.”  In the aftermath of the Martin shooting,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and
 Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  this week withdrew support from the American
Legislative Exchange Council, a group that promoted Stand Your
Ground laws. ALEC, which lets corporate representatives work
with state lawmakers to draft bills, said it would shift its
focus to economic issues. Meanwhile, efforts to expand Stand
Your Ground Laws in Alaska and  Iowa  stalled after the Martin
shooting.  Wisconsin Law  In Wisconsin, Democratic Representative Tamara Grigsby said
efforts to scuttle the state’s Stand Your Ground will hinge on
whether Governor  Scott Walker  and his fellow Republicans hold
power after June recall elections.  “We’re holding out hope those numbers will change,” she
said. “As long as Republicans run the show, they are going to
get even more radical.”  Louisiana Representative Roy Burrell, a Democrat, proposed
legislation to forbid the use of deadly force against someone
who is running away. It would be impossible to repeal the
state’s Stand Your Ground law because Republicans control the
Legislature, he said.  “Politically, I don’t think I can get that passed,” he
said. “Sometimes, you can’t eat the elephant all at once.
You’ve got to eat it piece by piece.”  In Georgia, where the Legislature has adjourned until
January, five Democrats joined with Taylor to back the measure
seeking to strike that state’s law.  ‘Bad Rap’  Representative Tyrone Brooks said he is backing the measure
to support Taylor and doesn’t see any chance of it advancing. He
said he’s more interested in targeting racial profiling and
voiced doubts about the need to change Georgia’s law.  “It’s getting a bad rap because of what George Zimmerman
did,” he said. “Zimmerman is an aberration. He’s not the
norm.”  Taylor said it may take him two or three years to build
enough popular support to get his measure passed.  “There has been a number of times where people say enough
is enough, and I am hoping that will be the case,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  