-- Jiang Said to Surface After Bo Purge to Meet Starbucks Chief
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-20T05:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/starbucks-ceo-schultz-said-to-have-met-jiang-zemin-in-beijing.html
Former Chinese President  Jiang
Zemin  met  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz 
on April 17 in Beijing, a person familiar with the meeting said.
Jiang emerged in the capital ahead of a once-in-a-decade
leadership change later this year.  Details of Schultz’s conversation with Jiang, 85, weren’t
immediately available, according to the person, who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly about the event. Schultz also
visited Shanghai during his  China  trip.  Jiang, who led the Communist Party from 1989 to 2002, met
with Schultz a week after former Chongqing Communist Party
leader  Bo Xilai  was suspended from the ruling Politburo. Jiang’s
presence in Beijing suggests he is taking part in the leadership
transition, complicating the succession process in the world’s
second-biggest economy, said Victor Shih, a professor who
focuses on Chinese finance and politics at  Northwestern
University  in Evanston,  Illinois .  “He has shown the world conclusively that he remains in
good health and that he remains part of the equation for the
18th Party Congress,” Shih said in an e-mail. “This will make
complete domination by any particular faction difficult, despite
recent events.”  Starbucks’s Shanghai-based spokeswoman Wang Xingrong said
she had no comment about the visit when reached by phone today.
The news office at China’s foreign ministry had no information
about the meeting.  Sinocism , a blog run by Beijing-based
independent analyst Bill Bishop, first reported that Jiang had
met with an unidentified U.S. chief executive.  ‘Discipline Violations’  Bo’s ouster from the Politburo came after he was found to
have committed as-yet-unspecified “serious discipline
violations” and his wife, Gu Kailai, was arrested on suspicion
of murdering British businessman Neil Heywood, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported April 10.  Retired Chinese leaders have played a role in Chinese
politics and policy.  Deng Xiaoping , who died in 1997, was the
paramount leader during the 1989 Tiananmen student protests even
though he was not a Politburo member. Other elderly cadres at
the time, including Bo’s father Bo Yibo, also helped make key
decisions.  General Secretary  China’s current top leader,  Hu Jintao , took over from Jiang
as the Communist Party’s general secretary in 2002 and as
president the year later. Hu succeeded Jiang as the chairman of
the Central Military Commission in 2004, completing the formal
succession process.  Jiang has made few public appearances in recent years. He
attended ceremonies in Beijing last October marking the 100th
anniversary of the 1911 revolution which led to the fall of the
last imperial dynasty. That appearance was made three months
after  Hong Kong ’s Asia Television Ltd. reported on July 6 that
Jiang had died.  Jiang’s appearance this week is a “well-timed and
calculated show of force” ahead of the party congress, Willy
Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of history at the Chinese
University of Hong Kong, said in an e-mail. The congress will
pick the rulers who may be in charge of the country for the next
10 years.  “Jiang is telling Hu Jintao and other factions that he
definitely wants and will have some say in the personnel
arrangements in the 18th Congress,” Lam said in the e-mail.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in  Shanghai  at +86-21-6104-3044 or
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  