-- Suez Environnement ‘Social’ Water Rates May Widen Under Hollande
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-04-20T14:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/suez-environnement-social-water-rates-may-widen-under-hollande.html
Suez Environnement introduced
discounted tariffs in a town in southwestern  France  to help low-
income families pay their water bills, in a program that could
be extended across the country if Socialist presidential
contender  Francois Hollande  is elected.  Suez Environnement is trialing the system in Libourne, near
Bordeaux and has so far not lost any revenue, Chief Financial
Officer Jean-Marc Boursier said today.  French water companies including Suez and bigger rival
 Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  held in 2010 about 65 percent of the
French drinking-water market where volumes consumed have dropped
since 2006, according to trade group Federation Professionelle
des Entreprises de l’Eau, or FP2E.  Hollande, who is leading in polls to replace President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , has proposed rates for water, power and natural
gas that would “guarantee access to all” and promote more
efficient usage. Francois Brottes, his energy adviser, has said
this would be based on consumers paying lower rates for minimum
consumption and more if they use greater volumes.  The policy would change the way the majority of French
consumers pay their water bills, which is generally based on a
flat rate per cubic meter of water consumed, depending on where
they live.  Suez Environnement charges different rates for water in
Libourne, with the lowest for the first 15 cubic meters annually
and the highest for volumes of more than five times that, Chief
Financial Officer Jean-Marc Boursier said on a conference call.  Afford More  “We assume that if you have such high consumption you have
a huge garden and maybe a swimming pool and you can afford it,”
Boursier said. The rates are structured in such a way that “it
doesn’t change too much” for overall revenues, he said.  “This is not negative if it’s done properly,” Verity Mitchell, an analyst at HCBC Holdings Plc, said by e-mail. “It
can reduce bad debts as lower prices for poor people make bills
affordable.”  About 2 million people pay more than 3 percent of their
earnings on water, according to former Environment Minister
Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet. French lawmakers passed a law last
year that would allow water companies to contribute to a fund to
help low-income families pay their bills.  The law doesn’t stipulate the kind of rate structures being
proposed by Hollande. Veolia has said it has put in place funds
to help low-income families in towns around Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  