-- Suez Environnement Profit Drops as Waste Treatment Falls
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-04-20T09:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/suez-environnement-profit-drops-4-5-as-waste-treatment-declines.html
Suez Environnement,  Europe ’s
second-biggest water company, said first-quarter earnings fell
4.5 percent as a sluggish economy and a cold spell in February
hurt its waste treatment business.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, dropped to 566 million euros ($744
million) from 592 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based
company said today in a statement. Sales increased 2.2 percent
to 3.59 billion euros.  The French utility maintained full-year financial targets,
which were to match or beat Ebitda, sales and dividends
compared with 2011.  “The results for the first quarter have been impacted by
the slowdown of treated waste volumes,” Chief Executive Officer
Jean-Louis Chaussade said in the statement. The water business
in Europe and abroad showed “good growth.”  Suez Environnement, which is 34 percent-owned by  GDF Suez (GSZ) 
SA, took a charge for an Australian desalination project in
October due to bad weather and  strike action  at the building
site. The company lowered its 2012 earnings targets, blaming a
“lackluster” outlook for economic growth, especially in
Europe.  The utility is “slightly behind” expectations for
performance after the first quarter due to lower volumes of
waste treated, according to Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Boursier.  Shortfall  The shortfall amounts to about 200,000 tons of waste for
treatment compared with expectations, Boursier said. About one
third of the drop was due to unseasonably cold weather in
February in  France , which led to factory halts.  “Waste volumes have come back since mid-March,” he said.
Prices for recycled commodities such as paper and scrap metal
were lower in the first three months compared with the same
period last year.  Development of the Melbourne plant is 92 percent complete
and building is continuing, Chaussade said today on a conference
call. Suez Environnment plans to start the plant in the middle
of the year and achieve full operating capacity by the end of
2012.  Work on maintaining and developing waste and water
installations had a “very severe decrease” in  Spain  at the
Agbar unit and were also lower at France’s Lyonnaise des Eaux,
Boursier said.  Net financial debt was stable compared with December 31 at
7.56 billion euros, the utility said today.  The company plans to save 360 million euros in costs from
2010 to 2012.  “We believe that their guidance is getting challenging,”
Yohann Terry, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, wrote in a note
today. The utility could boost 2012 cost cutting, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  