-- SuperGroup Plunges on Third Warning in Six Months: London Mover
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2012-04-20T08:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/supergroup-plunges-on-third-warning-in-six-months-london-mover.html
SuperGroup Plc (SGP)  fell the most ever
in London trading after the owner of the Superdry brand lowered
profit guidance for a third time in about six months.  SuperGroup plunged as much as 40 percent and was down 39
percent at 347 pence as of 9:04 a.m. That reduced the market
value of the Cheltenham, England-based clothing chain by 178
million pounds ($286 million) to 272.8 million pounds. The
company was  valued  at 1.28 billion pounds in May 2011, a year
after its initial public offering.  Pretax profit for the year ending April 29 will be about 43
million pounds, the company said today, less than the 50.7
million-pound average estimate of nine analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. The reversal marks a further backward step for a
company that has increased sales almost 10-fold in four years.  Profit will be reduced by about 2.5 million pounds due to
“arithmetic errors” in forecasting wholesale business,
SuperGroup said. A further 2 million-pound shortfall will be
caused by franchise and wholesale clients not drawing inventory
until after the year-end, while increased operating costs in the
retail business will hurt earnings by the same amount.  The setback “is more to do with structural problems
associated with a group that has seen meteoric development over
the last few years rather than any underlying problem with the
brand,” Freddie George, an analyst at Seymour Pierce in  London ,
said in a note. He cut his price estimate to 650 pence from
1,000 pence and kept a buy recommendation on the stock.  ‘Human Mistake’  The accounting error in the wholesale business was “a
genuine human mistake,” Chief Executive Officer Julian Dunkerton said on a call with analysts. No sales have been lost
and the business continues to grow rapidly, he said. Retail
sales have also matched company expectations, the CEO said.  SuperGroup said the reasons for the latest profit downgrade
will have “a minimal impact” on projections for fiscal 2013. A
further update will be issued on May 10 as planned, it said.  Retail sales have also matched expectations, although a
“slight change of mix” toward more use of  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and outlet
sales versus higher-margin store sales will affect profit by
another 2 million pounds, the CEO said.  “Whilst it’s disappointing to finish the current year in
this manner our projections for the next financial year remain
unchanged,” Dunkerton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  