-- U.K. Seen Avoiding Recession With 0.1% Quarterly Growth
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-04-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/u-k-seen-avoiding-recession-with-0-1-growth-in-first-quarter.html
The U.K. narrowly avoided sliding
back into recession in the first quarter, with the economy
failing to recover output lost in the previous three months,
economists said.  Gross domestic product rose 0.1 percent, according to the
median estimate in a  Bloomberg News survey  of 40 economists
completed yesterday. It shrank 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter. The  Office for National Statistics  will publish the
data at 9:30 a.m. in London on April 25.  Britain’s recovery is struggling to gain momentum as
government spending cuts, slow incomes growth and rising energy
prices squeeze household budgets, while the debt crisis in
 Europe  drags on. Bank of England policy makers may leave their
quantitative-easing program unchanged next month amid signs
inflation may retreat less quickly than forecast two months ago.  “We’re at the very early stages of recovery, though
underlying growth is modest,” said  David Page , an economist at
Lloyds TSB Bank in London. “QE is off the agenda for the short
term, especially as the bank has awoken to the fact that
inflation is a bit firmer than their forecast.”  GDP probably expanded 0.3 percent from a year earlier,
according to a Bloomberg survey of survey of 31 economists.  Construction output returned to growth in February, though
it failed to offset a 12.9 percent decline in January, and
manufacturing output declined in both months, putting the onus
on the dominant services sector to keep Britain out of
recession. The construction data were not adjusted for seasonal
swings, making it hard to predict its impact on GDP in the first
quarter.  Underlying Strength  Bank of England  Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  and policy
maker  Adam Posen  said this week that weak GDP in the first half
may mask underlying strength in the economy. Minutes of the
Monetary Policy Committee’s April policy meeting showed
officials considered a recession was possible in the first half.  Tucker said April 18 temporary factors such as a sharp fall
in construction output at the start of the year and an extra
public holiday in June to mark Queen Elizabeth II’s 60 years on
the throne may result in “weak headline” growth numbers for
the first two quarters. Posen said the next day the economy “is
stronger than what that data is going to show.”  The construction data introduce a “wide range of
uncertainty” on the GDP figure, as they suggest a “savage
decline in the first quarter on a par with the aftermath of the
collapse of  Lehman Brothers ,” Page said. “That seems to us
implausible. Other evidence suggests a more benign outlook.”  Posen ended his push to expand the bank’s 325 billion-pound
bond-purchase plan this month, leaving  David Miles  as the only
one on the nine-member panel arguing for more.  The bank announces its next policy decision May 10, when it
will have new quarterly economic forecasts. Its February
projections showed inflation dropping to the 2 percent target by
the end of the year. Data this week showed inflation, which is
in its third year above target, accelerated in March for the
first time in six months to 3.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  