-- U.K. Retail Sales Surged in March on Warm Weather, Fuel Panic
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-04-20T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/u-k-retail-sales-surged-in-march-on-warm-weather-fuel-panic.html
U.K. retail sales rose at the
fastest pace for more than a year last month as the warmest
March for half a century boosted purchases of clothing and
gardening equipment and panic buying lifted auto-fuel demand.  Sales including auto fuel gained 1.8 percent from February,
when they fell 0.8 percent, the  Office for National Statistics 
said today in London. The median forecast of 22 economists in a
Bloomberg survey was for a 0.5 percent gain. Sales excluding
fuel climbed 1.5 percent. A 0.4 percent gain was predicted.  The data add to evidence that the economy returned to
growth in the first quarter, though economists say the outlook
remains fragile as inflation outpaces wages, continuing the
squeeze on household budgets.  “Future developments in  consumer spending  are key to the
economy’s ability to build on an apparent return to growth,”
said  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global Insight in
London. “The concern is that consumers still face challenging
conditions overall that threaten to limit their spending in the
near term at least.”  Sales were boosted by the warmest March since 1957, with
temperatures climbing above 20 degrees Celsius in the last two
weeks of the month, according to the  Met Office . This increased
demand for clothing and footwear and spending at garden centers.  Overall sales were also helped by panic buying of fuel
toward the end of the month in anticipation of a strike by
tanker-truck drivers.  The monthly increase in retail sales in March was the
biggest since January 2011, when sales were boosted by a
bounceback from disruption caused by snow. Fuel sales rose 4.9
percent from February, which was also the biggest rise for 14
months and the most for the month of March since records began
in 1996.  Clothing sales rose 2.3 percent on the month, purchases at
department stores climbed 1.6 percent and there was a 0.9
percent increase in sales at household goods stores. Food sales
fell 0.3 percent. In the first quarter, retail sales rose 0.8
percent.  Internet sales  accounted for 8.5 percent of all retail
sales in March, down from 8.8 percent the previous month, the
statistics office aid.  Investors have driven up retailer shares. The General
Retailers Index has risen almost 17 percent this year, compared
with a 4.4 percent gain in the broader FTSE 350 Index.  Reports this week underscored the headwinds facing the
British economy.  Consumer price inflation accelerated for the first time in
six months in March and Bank of England officials warned that it
may not slow as fast as projected two months ago. Prices of
gasoline and diesel fuel both rose to record levels in March.  Meanwhile, wages rose just 1.1 percent in the three months
through February, the least since mid-2010 and a third of the
pace of inflation. Unemployment, which dipped to 8.3 percent
from a 16-year high of 8.4 percent, is forecast to rise further
as the government cuts tens of thousands of jobs to tackle the
 budget deficit .  In recent weeks, companies from Whitbread Plc to John Lewis
Partnership Plc and  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  have warned of fragile trading
conditions.  Many stores were forced to offer deep discounts
earlier in the year as concerns the euro-region debt crisis
might tip the economy into recession hit  consumer confidence .  The retail sales deflator, a measure of changes in shop
prices, rose 2.5 in March from a rate of 2.4 percent in
February, the statistics office said. Excluding auto fuel, the
deflator rose 2.1 percent versus 2 percent.  Smaller fuel retailers said they lost out when panic buying
forced them to run of petrol, costing them sales of
confectionary and drinks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  