-- U.K. March Retail Sales Surge on Warm Weather, Fuel Panic
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-04-20T08:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/u-k-march-retail-sales-surge-on-warm-weather-fuel-panic-1-.html
U.K.  retail sales  rose at the
fastest pace for more than a year last month as the warmest
March for half a century boosted purchases of clothing and
gardening products and panic buying lifted auto-fuel demand.  Sales including auto fuel gained 1.8 percent from February,
when they fell 0.8 percent, the  Office for National Statistics 
said today in London. The median forecast of 22 economists in a
Bloomberg  survey  was for a 0.5 percent gain. Sales excluding
fuel climbed 1.5 percent. A 0.4 percent gain was predicted.  The data add to evidence that the economy returned to
growth in the first quarter, though the outlook remains fragile
as inflation outpaces wages, continuing the squeeze on household
budgets.  “There may be signs the consumer is returning to life,”
said  Peter Dixon , an economist at Commerzbank AG in London. “In
a wider context, it’s added a bit more to consumption in the
first quarter and therefore boosted the GDP number slightly. I
think it’ll be sufficient to avoid a negative number.”  The pound rose as much as 0.2 percent against the dollar
after the report and was trading at $1.6103 as of 9:57 a.m. in
London, up 0.3 percent on the day.  Sales were boosted by the warmest March since 1957, with
temperatures climbing above 20 degrees Celsius in the last two
weeks of the month, according to the  Met Office . This increased
demand for clothing and footwear and spending at garden centers.  Panic Buying  Overall sales were also helped by panic buying of fuel
toward the end of the month in anticipation of a strike by
tanker-truck drivers, the statistics office said. Smaller fuel
retailers said they lost out after they ran out of stock and 
were forced to close, costing them sales of confectionary and 
drinks.  The  monthly increase  in retail sales in March was the
biggest since January 2011, when sales bounced back from
disruption caused by snow. Fuel sales rose 4.9 percent from
February, which was also the biggest rise for 14 months and the
most for the month of March since records began in 1996.  Sales at non-food stores rose 3 percent on the month, with
clothing sales climbing 2.3 percent and purchases at department
stores increasing 1.6 percent. There was also a 0.9 percent
increase in sales of household goods, while spending at “other
stores,” which includes carpet shops, garden centers and
pharmacies among others, jumped 6.2 percent.  Food Sales Down  Food sales  fell 0.3 percent. In the first quarter, retail
sales rose 0.8 percent compared with 1.1 percent growth in the
fourth quarter.  Internet sales  accounted for 8.5 percent of all retail
sales in March, down from 8.8 percent the previous month, the
statistics office aid.  Investors have driven up retailer shares. The General
Retailers Index has risen almost 17 percent this year, compared
with a 4.4 percent gain in the broader FTSE 350 Index.  Reports this week underscored the headwinds facing the
British economy.  Consumer price  inflation  accelerated for the first time in
six months in March and Bank of England officials warned that it
may not slow as fast as projected two months ago. Prices of
gasoline and diesel fuel both rose to record levels in March.  Consumer Squeeze  Meanwhile, wages rose just 1.1 percent in the three months
through February, the least since mid-2010 and a third of the
pace of inflation. Unemployment, which dipped to 8.3 percent
from a 16-year high of 8.4 percent, is forecast to rise further
as the government cuts tens of thousands of jobs to tackle the
 budget deficit .  In recent weeks, companies from Whitbread Plc to John Lewis
Partnership Plc and  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  have warned of fragile trading
conditions. Many stores were forced to offer deep discounts
earlier in the year as concerns the euro-region debt crisis
might tip the economy into recession hit  consumer confidence .  “Current trading conditions are still difficult and
consumer confidence remains subdued,” John Lewis Chairman
Charlie Mayfield said on March 7.  The retail sales deflator, a measure of changes in shop
prices, rose an annual 2.5 percent in March from a rate of 2.4
percent in February, the statistics office said. Excluding auto
fuel, the deflator rose 2.1 percent versus 2 percent.  Surveys of manufacturing, services and construction suggest
the economy has gained momentum this year after gross domestic
product contracted by 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter. The
statistics office is due to release its initial estimate of
first-quarter GDP on April 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  