-- U.K. Stocks Climb as Vedanta Climbs; Man Group Rebounds
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-04-20T16:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/u-k-stocks-fluctuate-as-ftse-100-heads-for-weekly-gain.html
U.K. stocks gained, extending the
the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX) ’s first weekly advance in a month, as retail
sales rose at the fastest pace in more than a year and mining
companies rallied with copper.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  and  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  both gained more
than 2 percent as copper rose in  London  amid declining
stockpiles in China.  Man Group (EMG)  Plc rebounded from a 12-year low
as Bank of America Corp. recommended the hedge-fund manager.
Severn Trent Plc advanced for a fifth day.  The FTSE 100 rose 0.5 percent to 5,772.15 at the close in
London, extending its advance this week to 2.1 percent. The
gauge earlier today swung between gains and losses at least 14
times as index futures and equity options expired in Europe. The
 FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  rose 0.4 percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index increased 0.7 percent.  “Economic data from the U.K. and Europe provided a glimmer
of hope for investors,” said  Angus Campbell , head of market
analysis at Capital Spreads in London. “As we’ve seen in the
past these rallies don’t always last that long and we could
quickly see the the gains snuffed out if the situation in the
euro zone gets out of hand.”  The FTSE 100 posted its first weekly advance since March 16
as demand increased at a Spanish debt sale and the  International
Monetary Fund  increased its prediction for global growth. The
gauge has still  fallen 3.2 percent  since that date amid renewed
concern that euro-area policy makers have yet to contain the
sovereign-debt crisis.  U.K. Retail Sales  The Office for National Statistics said today that  U.K.
retail sales  including gasoline gained 1.8 percent from February
as the warmest March for half a century boosted purchases of
clothing. The  median economist forecast  had called for a 0.5
percent increase.  Bank of England policy maker Adam Posen yesterday told
reporters in Edinburgh that the British economy was “stronger”
than official data will show in the first half of the year. A
release today showed that German business confidence
unexpectedly rose to a nine-month high in April.  Kazakhmys led a rally in mining companies, climbing 2.4
percent to 889.5 pence. Vedanta Resources added 3.1 percent to
1,237 pence and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  rose 2.4 percent to 1,167.5 pence.  Copper climbed in London and New York as stockpiles in
Shanghai fell the most in four months and those tracked by the
London Metal Exchange slid for a second week. Lead, nickel, tin
and zinc also advanced on the LME today.  Man, Severn Trent  Man Group rose 2.5 percent to 95.7 pence, rebounding from
its lowest price since October 2000. The shares have still
plunged 13 percent this week and  24 percent this year , the
worst-performing stock on the FTSE 100, as assets at the firm’s
flagship AHL Diversified fund slipped further last week.  Bank of America’s Philip Middleton reiterated his buy
recommendation, saying the shares were “extremely
undervalued,” assuming that AHL reverts to trend.  Severn Trent climbed 3.7 percent to 1,720 pence for its
fifth day of gains as the  Daily Telegraph  cited “vague bid
speculation” in its markets report.  Analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote on April 11 that
private-equity bid speculation reported in the  Daily Mail  was
“unlikely.” They named Pennon Group Plc as a “more
interesting bet.”  IMI Plc (IMI)  gained 1.9 percent to 992 pence after the
engineering company said first-half earnings will be inline with
its forecast.  First-quarter revenue  rose 8 percent.  William Hill Rallies  William Hill Plc (WMH)  increased 4.3 percent to 278.3 pence, its
highest price since May 2008 as  first-quarter net revenue  jumped
12 percent from a year earlier. Oriel Securities Ltd. raised  its
recommendation  for the bookmaker to hold from reduce.  BP Plc (BP/) , Europe’s second-largest oil company, paced
declining shares, falling 1.2 percent to 434.85 pence for its
third day of losses.  The company’s TNK-BP venture faces potential damage claims
from Russia’s environmental watchdog. Natural Resources Minister
Yuri Trutnev said yesterday that the business has polluted the
Ob and Yenisei river basins in Siberia.  “TNK-BP has denied the allegations, but this is one to
watch closely in case it signifies an increase in the political
pressure,” Canaccord wrote in an e-mail to clients. “The issue
of Russian risk in BP’s shares has gone quiet in recent months,
but if it resurges it could affect sentiment towards BP.”  Weir Group, SuperGroup  Weir Group Plc (WEIR) , the world’s biggest maker of pumps for the
mining industry, dropped 3 percent to 1,700 pence after U.S.
peer  Gardner Denver Inc. (GDI)  lowered its earnings forecast.  Gardner Denver predicted that shipments of pressure pumps
will drop in the second half of 2012 and estimated  full-year
adjusted earnings per share  of $5.60 to $5.80, lower than its
earlier forecast of $6 to $6.20.  SuperGroup Plc (SGP)  sank 38 percent to 351.8 pence after the
owner of the Superdry brand lowered profit guidance for the
third time in about six months.  The company predicted pretax profit for the year ending
April 29 of 43 million pounds ($69 million), less than the 50.7
million-pound  average analyst estimate  compiled by Bloomberg.  In Ireland,  Independent News & Media Plc (INM)  jumped 7.8 percent
to 26.2 euro cents, extending the stock’s gain this week to 14
percent after Gavin O’Reilly yesterday stepped down as chief
executive officer.  O’Reilly said in a statement that “shareholder tensions
were proving an unnecessary distraction.” Billionaire  Denis O’Brien , the company’s largest shareholder, called for O’Reilly
to step down last November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  