-- U.K. Serious Fraud Chief Walks Away From Agency in Flux
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-04-20T09:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/u-k-serious-fraud-office-chief-walks-away-from-agency-in-flux.html
Richard Alderman , the director of
the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office, steps down today after a four-
year term in which ambitious reforms to combat bribery were
hampered by a dwindling budget and a depleted staff.  Alderman has championed a system of negotiating corruption
settlements with companies rather than prosecutions since
joining the SFO as director in 2008. He was criticized for
taking on several high-profile investigations, including
American International Group Inc.’s Financial Products unit and
convicted swindler  Bernard Madoff ’s London operations, only to
close them later citing a lack of evidence.  He’s also faced a shrinking budget amid government
austerity measures, a year-long fight with the  Home Office  to
save the SFO from dissolution, judicial criticism of the
agency’s handling of cases, and a staff exodus to law and
accounting firms.  “With very severe cutbacks in our budget, we’ve taken less
time to take cases to court, and we’re taking on more cases than
ever before and being more successful with them,” Alderman, 59,
said in an interview on April 11. The SFO is “pushing the
boundaries” on global settlements in corruption investigations.  Alderman, who said he intends to stay involved in anti-
corruption work when he leaves the SFO, has won some plaudits
for his efforts.  ‘Novel Approach’  “Alderman has attempted to modernize the SFO and he has
been successful in part,” said Neill Blundell, a lawyer at
Eversheds LLP in London. “His approach was novel and regardless
of budgetary cuts he leaves the SFO in a better place than it
was in 2008.”  Still,  David Green , a barrister who led the Revenue and
Customs Prosecutions Office for five years until it was folded
into the Crown Prosecution Service, will inherit an agency in
flux when he takes over on April 23.  The SFO’s chief executive officer, general counsel, chief
investigator, head of anti-corruption and proceeds-of-crime
units, head of fraud, and a senior policy adviser have all left.  “ David Green  will inherit a more open organization but one
desperate to prove its worth,” Blundell said. “Green’s first
task will be to build up a new senior management team capable of
dealing with the complex issues that the SFO faces on a day-to-
day basis.”  Alderman has defended his record at the SFO, saying the
agency is “unrecognizable compared to what it was four years
ago.” He’s improved morale and the public perception of the SFO
despite severe cutbacks in its budget, he said. Its resources
have shrunk from 52 million pounds ($83.7 million) in 2008 to
about 37 million pounds.  AIG, Madoff  On the AIG and Madoff case closures, the SFO “followed the
investigations through and regularly reviewed them,” Alderman
said. “We took the view that we were unlikely to satisfy that
very high bar to prosecute. We have to prove dishonesty, and get
witnesses who are willing to talk to us about their losses.”  With a diminished budget, Alderman “pioneered alternative
arrangements for resolving criminal allegations, and the use of
civil recovery orders,” said David Corker, a fraud lawyer at
Corker Binning in  London . “Now he’s done about 10 to 15 of
those, and that’s a novel thing that he introduced. He’s been a
new thinker, he’s brought new ideas into the way things have
been resolved.”  Foreign Corruption  His approach has attracted criticism. The Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said last month that the
SFO uses too many secret settlements in foreign corruption cases
that require less oversight from courts and aren’t as
transparent as criminal plea agreements.  The Paris-based think tank said it’s “equally concerning
that the SFO has in some cases entered into confidentiality
agreements with defendants that prevent the disclosure of key
information after cases are settled.”  Judge John Laugharne Thomas also chided the SFO for
entering into a joint plea bargain agreement in 2010 with fuel-
additives maker Innospec Inc. for paying bribes overseas.
Alderman “had no power to enter into the arrangements and no
such arrangements should be made again,” the judge ruled.  Lawyers say Green may prefer to take cases to court to
prosecute, whereas Alderman encouraged companies to self-report
instances of corruption and negotiate a settlement, a tactic
that allowed the agency to handle some cases on a tight budget.  Tax Litigation  “Alderman comes from a background of tax litigation being
compromised out of court in almost all instances,” Corker said.
“Green comes from a background of bringing and defending cases
in court.”  Corker said Green is “an excellent candidate” for the
position based on his tenure as the director of revenue and
customs prosecution.  “He did a marvellous job improving its conviction rate and
improving its asset forfeitures,” Corker said. He lifted morale
“tremendously” at the Revenue and Customs Prosecutions Office
“so he’s got an impressive track record.”  Green took over at the RCPO in 2005 and led the agency
until it was merged with the  Crown Prosecution Service  in 2010.
He stayed on at CPS as the director of its fraud group until a
year ago, when he returned to private practice at 6 King’s Bench
Walk chambers.  Green “is a strong advocate and the SFO staff will respond
positively to his leadership style,” said Keith McCarthy, the
SFO’s former chief investigator, who is now a director at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The two worked together at Her
Majesty’s Revenue and Customs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  