-- U.S. Bond Sales Rise as High-Grade Yields Drop To Record
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-04-20T20:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/u-s-bond-sales-rise-as-high-grade-yields-drop-to-record.html
Corporate bond sales  rose to at
least $17.1 billion in the U.S. this week, while staying below
the 2012 average for the fifth straight period, as yields on
investment-grade bonds fell to record lows.  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW) , the second-largest home improvement retailer,
raised $2 billion in its largest single-day offering ever,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Memphis , Tennessee-
based  AutoZone Inc. (AZO)  sold $500 million of debt in its first issue
in more than a year. Sales rose 54 percent from the period ended
April 13 and are 46 percent below this year’s average of $31.7
billion.  Companies are borrowing more, even as the spread between
corporate debt and government securities increases, to take
advantage of rising investor demand for the bonds as the  Federal
Reserve  keeps benchmark  interest rates  near zero to spur
economic growth, according to Mark Pibl, head of credit strategy
at broker-dealer Cortview Capital Securities LLC.  “Most treasurers are not focused on relative corporate
spreads -- they look at absolute funding costs,” New York-based
Pibl said in a telephone interview. “Issuers are still eager to
tap into these absolute low yields. They’re building cash and
strengthening their balance sheets.”  Sales are increasing even after companies issued a record
$444 billion during the first quarter. Issuance this year of
$489 billion compares with $465 billion during the similar
period of 2011.  Record Low Yields  The extra yield investors demand to hold investment-grade
corporate bonds instead of  government securities  increased 9
basis points from the end of March to 201 basis points
yesterday, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Corporate Master index. The spread fell one basis point compared
with last week.  Absolute yields dropped to a record low 3.39 percent as of
yesterday, down 11 basis points from the end of March and lower
than 4.15 percent in October, the data show.  “These are exceptionally attractive borrowing
conditions,” Ed Marrinan, a macro credit strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview. May “still strikes us as having the
potential to be a very substantial month of issuance.”  Companies sold $11.9 billion of dollar-denominated
investment-grade debt this week, more than double the $5.35
billion sold the week earlier and 60 percent more than the week
ended April 22 of last year, Bloomberg data show. Junk-bond
issuance dropped by 9 percent to $5.2 billion this week while
average yields declined to 7.671 percent, the lowest level since
April 3, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
High Yield Master II index.  Lowe’s Boosts Leverage  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds are ranked below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- by  Standard &
Poor’s . A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Lowe’s, based in Mooresville,  North Carolina , sold $500
million of 1.625 percent, five-year notes that yield 80 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, $750 million of
3.12 percent, 10-year debt at a spread of 115 basis points and
$750 million of 4.65 percent, 30-year securities at 155 basis
points, Bloomberg data show.  The company, which is boosting leverage to reward
shareholders with increased stock buybacks, said proceeds from
the sale may be used for general corporate purposes including
share repurchases and  capital spending , according to a
regulatory filing.  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  is the largest U.S. home-
improvement retailer.  AutoZone, the biggest U.S. vehicle parts retailer, sold 3.7
percent senior unsecured notes maturing in April 2022 to yield
170 basis points more than government debt. Proceeds may be used
to repay other obligations, open new stores, buy back stock or
make acquisitions, the company said in a filing.  “It’s historically attractive money,” Marrinan said. “We
have very attractive borrowing rates, and we also have an
investor base motivated to want to own corporate bonds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 