-- U.S. EPA Settles With 30 Companies Over Fake Fuel Credits
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-04-20T20:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/u-s-epa-settles-with-refiners-over-fake-renewable-fuel-credits.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
reached settlement agreements with  ExxonMobil Corp. (XOM) , Shell Oil
Co. and 28 other companies after they bought fraudulent
renewable-fuel credits.  The EPA said in administrative settlement  documents  on its
website today that the refiners and other companies bought
credits for the required production of biodiesel from either
Clean Green Fuels LLC or Absolute Fuels LLC.  “EPA made these settlement offers to help restore
certainty in the market, resolve the violations and ensure that
the goals of Congress are met,” Betsaida Alcantara, a
spokeswoman for EPA, said today in an e-mail. Three of the 33
companies contacted by the EPA didn’t settle, she said, without
identifying those companies.  The EPA said Clean Green Fuels and Absolute Fuels sold
credits for the production of clean fuel they didn’t make. Those
companies face separate actions by the EPA. Rodney R. Hailey,
owner of Clean Green in Maryland, was charged by U.S. officials
on Oct. 3 with  wire fraud , money laundering and violating the
 Clean Air Act , according to the EPA. Hailey has pleaded not
guilty in U.S. District Court, according to the Washington Post.
A telephone message left with his lawyer, Joseph Evans, wasn’t
immediately returned.  None of the companies admitted wrongdoing, according to the
settlement documents.  Exxon agreed to pay a U.S. fine of $165,407; Shell,
$110,331;  ConocoPhillips (COP) , $250,000; and a unit of  BP Plc (BP/) ,
$350,000.  “ConocoPhillips purchased the RINs in good faith and was
the victim of fraud committed by the seller,” Janet Grothe, a
spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mail. The credits are
called Renewable Identification Numbers, or RINs. “The civil
settlement does not constitute an admission of liability,” she
said.  Kayla Macke, a spokeswoman for Shell, referred questions to
the  American Petroleum Institute  in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  