-- Tupac Hologram Sparks 48% Rise in Digital Domain Shares
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-04-20T20:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/tupac-hologram-sparks-50-rise-in-digital-domain-shares.html
Digital Domain Media Group Inc. (DDMG) ,
creator of a lifelike Tupac Shakur visual effect seen onstage at
the Coachella music festival, has gained 48 percent since a
performance on April 15 showcased the technology.  Digital Domain, a special-effects company based in Port St.
Lucie, Florida,  climbed  18 percent to $7.55 at the close in New
York, extending its gain from $5.11 on April 13, the last
trading day before the performance in California.  Video showing Shakur, who died in 1996, seeming to perform
onstage with rappers Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg, has appeared on
cable news channels including  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s CNN and  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s CNBC, and has been a top draw on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube.
Dr. Dre may tour with the Tupac hologram, said  Tony Wible , an
analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.  “Their long-term goal is to be the next Pixar,” said
Wible, referring to the Walt Disney Co. animation studio that
produced the “Toy Story” movies. “And there’s reason to
believe they can go in that direction with the talent they have
hired.”  Shannon Burns, vice president of investor relations for
Digital Domain, said the company had agreed with Dr. Dre not to
discuss the technology until after this weekend.  Digital Domain is co-producing a movie, “Ender’s Game,”
with  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s Summit film unit, and is
expanding into China and Abu Dhabi, Wible said. The company won
an Oscar in 2009 for its work on “The Curious Case of Benjamin
Button,” in which Brad Pitt’s character ages backward.  The Tupac character, a holographic projection, is scheduled
to perform again on April 22 during the second weekend of the
music festival, located about 23 miles (37 kilometers) east of
Palm Springs,  California .  “They have an animation slate that’s building momentum and
now people are seeing its technology can be used in other
areas,” said Wible, who recommends buying the shares. “People
are now seeing commercial applications for this hologram.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  