-- Murdoch’s Daughter Elisabeth Gives Tate at Least $1.6 Mln
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-04-20T09:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/murdoch-s-daughter-elisabeth-gives-tate-at-least-1-6-mln.html
Elisabeth Murdoch, daughter of  News
Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , has given  Tate  at least 1 million
pounds ($1.6 million), the U.K. museum group said.  Elisabeth Murdoch -- founder of the TV production company
Shine Group Ltd. -- is a Tate board member whose four-year term
expires in August. Her gift will help fund educational
facilities at Tate Modern’s planned 215 million pound new wing,
Tate said in an e-mailed statement.  “We can confirm that Elisabeth Murdoch, who is a trustee
of Tate, has made a major donation to the new development of
Tate Modern,” Tate said. “Her donation is supporting key
studios and spaces for learning and engagement in the new
building.”  Tate said the donation was “a seven-figure sum,” and
would not elaborate.  Patrick Keegan, Shine Group’s director of communications
and a spokesman for  Elisabeth Murdoch , declined to comment on
what he said was a private donation.  A year ago, News Corp. completed the purchase of Elisabeth
Murdoch’s Shine Group -- producer of the popular U.K. shows
“MasterChef” and “Merlin” -- for 415 million pounds.
According to an August 2011 securities filing, News Corp. paid
about $214 million in cash to Elisabeth Murdoch as part of the
acquisition.  Funding Shortage  The 2012 opening of the new Tate 2 building, designed by
architects Herzog & De Meuron, was postponed because of a
funding shortage. It’s now set to open in 2016 at the latest.
Three-quarters of the cost -- or about 161 million pounds -- has
been raised so far, Tate said, up from 150 million pounds in
October, when Tate last gave numbers.  Of the money raised, 50 million pounds is coming from the
U.K. government; 7 million pounds from the London Development
Agency; 5 million pounds from philanthropist John Studzinski,
senior managing director of Blackstone Group LP; and “a few
million” pounds from the Sultanate of Oman, according to Tate.  “We can’t possibly be in a position where we start
commissioning building without being certain that we have it in
our funds to complete it,” Tate Director Nicholas Serota said
in October, when asked about the new wing.  “The trustees have said they want to get to a certain
level of funding which they set for themselves,” Serota said.
“At that point, they will steam ahead.”  To coincide with the 2012 London  Olympic Games , Tate Modern
-- a former power station -- is opening two huge circular spaces
that were once oil tanks. The opening date and program for the
tanks is being announced April 23.  The donation was first reported by the Evening Standard
newspaper, which didn’t say where it got the information.  Today’s Muse highlights include: Farah Nayeri’s  London
Weekend ;  Lewis Lapham  on  history .  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri at   farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 