-- Lure of Olympic Gold Beats Morgan Stanley for Ex-Harvard Rower
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-04-20T00:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/lure-of-olympic-gold-beats-morgan-stanley-for-ex-harvard-rower.html
World champion rower Michael Blomquist valued the chance for an Olympics gold medal in  London 
more than an analyst job at Morgan Stanley. He said the decision
wasn’t easy.  “It’s always going to be a difficult proposition to walk
away from good money and from something that is comfortable and
straightforward,” Blomquist said. “I’m loving every day, but
of course sometimes I do feel like I made a terrible decision. I
walked away at a point where I felt like I was on an upward
track at work.”  The 30-year-old -- who won a world title with the U.S.
men’s eight in  Japan  in 2005 -- quit his analyst job with Morgan
Stanley in 2010 to try to get into the U.S. boat for the  Olympic
Games in London , which start July 27.  The 2003 Harvard University graduate put his professional
life on hold for three years to pursue medals, and then joined
Morgan Stanley’s London office for four years. The call of the
games brought him back to the water, and he’s competing with 15
others for a spot in the men’s eight.  Blomquist is based in Oakland,  California . He’s covering
his living costs out of his savings, passing up the chance to be
earning 69,850 pounds ($112,000), the average salary of a
London-based analyst with two to four years of experience,
according to recruitment agency Reed Global. He declined to give
his salary at the bank.  Coaches are in the process of picking the crew for the last
Olympic qualifying race in May in Switzerland.  Government Funding  Unlike the U.K. or France, U.S. sports don’t get government
funding and rely heavily on corporate sponsorship and individual
donors. This leaves lesser-known sports like rowing to rely on a
budget of about $3.5 million to cover food, coaching, equipment,
housing and travel for 40 men and women. It also forces athletes
to make a financial decision about when to stop depending on
part-time jobs or parents to fund the chase for a medal.  “Our athlete base is typically well-educated as well as
highly motivated so they have lots of opportunities,”  National
Rowing Foundation  board member and former Olympian Jamie Koven
said. “The No. 1 issue that we’re competing against is people
going and getting jobs.”  U.S. rowers live on a stipend of between $300 and $1,000 a
month, according to  USRowing  Chief Executive Officer Glenn Merry.
USRowing, the national governing body of the sport, is in charge
of distributing money from the  U.S. Olympic Committee . The USOC
contributes about one third of the sport’s annual budget, he
said. The rest comes from corporate sponsors, wealthy donors and
fundraising events like charity golf.  Burned Out  Blomquist made the national team as a 19-year-old sophomore
at Harvard. A year after winning at the 2005 World Championships,
he finished fourth at the event on the same lake where the
Olympic rowing will take place this year.  “I was getting burnt out,” he said. “At that point I was
seeing all my friends doing well in their jobs, enjoying
vacations and lots of different things I wasn’t experiencing. I
wanted to stop putting my life on hold, which is what it feels
like when you’re living on $1,000 a month.”  British rower  Greg Searle  knows that feeling.  “When I was a rower the first time round, it was like
being a student,” said Searle, who won a gold medal at 20 in
Barcelona and is looking to do the same in London two decades
later. “Now, the funding is at a level where it’s like getting
your first job. So people can make a decision to say, rather
than leaving university or whatever they’ve been doing at 18 and
getting a job, they can become a full-time rower.”  U.K. Sport  gets about 100 million pounds a year from the
government and the National Lottery for high-performance sport
in Britain. Funding began in 1997 and British rowing receives
around $10 million annually.  Medal Chances  Countries including  France  and Britain are targeting rowing
and other sports such as cycling that generate numerous medals.
U.K. Sport has awarded British rowing 27.2 million pounds
between 2009 and 2013, the most of all sports. Britain was the
top rowing nation at the Beijing Games, taking home six medals.  “Success is expensive, to compete on the world stage, with
the world’s best, against the world’s best, is expensive,” Liz Nicholl, CEO of U.K. Sport, said in an interview at London’s
Olympic Velodrome, where the track cycling will be held.  “The difference the National Lottery has made is that
athletes now can choose to actually be full-time athletes,” she
said.  ‘Incompatible’  In France,  Jean-Christophe Rolland  worked as a quality
maintenance engineer for Electricite de France SA while training
for the 1996 Atlanta Games and 2000 Sydney Olympics, where he
won a gold medal.  “I had in mind that it was absolutely incompatible to have
these two very high, time-consuming activities,” he said.
“Rowing at a high level means training six hours a day, 180
days a year away from home, so when you think about those
constraints, it seems impossible to work for a company.”  EDF gave him an adapted schedule and he trained during his
lunch break. In France, companies are encouraged to give
athletes jobs and may recover some of their salary from the
sports ministry, Rolland said, adding that the utility employs
16 Olympic hopefuls.  Rowers are at their best in their late 20s and can compete
well into their 30s, so the challenge of reconciling
professional ambitions with athletic dreams is especially
difficult, Rolland said.  U.S. Seeking Qualification  The U.S. men’s eight hasn’t qualified for the Olympics yet.
With 14 different medal events, two- and four-man boats are
given a priority, said Koven, a two-time world champion who is
in training for London 2012. It is the first time the U.S. men’s
eight hasn’t qualified for the Olympics at the preceding World
Championships. The nation’s flagship crew will be named by April
30. A win at the Final Olympic Qualification Regatta on May 20-
23 in Lucerne,  Switzerland , will secure a spot at the Games.  “It’s daunting, but my dream and my need for an Olympic
gold medal is worth it,” Blomquist said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ; Danielle Rossingh in London at 
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  