-- US Airways Sets Terms With AMR Unions for Possible Merger
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-04-20T20:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/us-airways-sets-terms-with-amr-unions-for-possible-merger-1-.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  moved closer
to making a takeover offer for  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  in
bankruptcy by reaching agreements on contract terms with the
carrier’s major unions.  No bid has been made, US Airways said today in a regulatory
filing that didn’t detail how it would proceed on a tie-up with
the third-largest U.S. airline. Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways
said the labor accords are contingent on a deal with AMR.  The agreements widen the rift between American and the
unions fighting its proposal for 13,000 job cuts. The labor
groups, which hold seats on AMR’s unsecured creditors committee,
are endorsing a suitor that hasn’t publicly outlined how a
merger would work even as American seeks to stay independent.  “It’s completely poisoned any type of attempt to move
forward,” said Jay Sorensen, president of consultant IdeaWorks
in Shorewood,  Wisconsin . “I don’t know what American does now.
As a union, they are supposed to be negotiating in good faith
with the airline, and while they’re doing that, they’ve already
struck a deal with a third party.”  While AMR holds the sole right to file a reorganization
plan through Sept. 28, the creditors committee can ask the  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  to end that privilege if the panel concludes
there is viable alternative. The panel should study AMR’s plan,
and then any US Airways offer, said Jeff Kauffman, a Sterne Agee
& Leach Inc. analyst in  New York , said in an interview.  ‘Defensive Move’  “It’s a defensive move by the unions, and it’s an
offensive move by  US Airways  to force their way to the table,”
said Kauffman, who has a neutral  rating  on US Airways. He said
the labor deals raise conflict-of-interest questions because the
unions sit on the nine-member creditor committee.  AMR Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  is seeking $1.25
billion in annual labor savings as he works to end four straight
years of losses. The company will argue before Bankruptcy Judge
Sean Lane in New York on April 23 for approval to void contracts
with the  Allied Pilots Association ,  Association of Professional
Flight Attendants  and Transport Workers Union.  Union support for US Airways doesn’t “in any way alter”
AMR’s goal of restructuring in bankruptcy,  Bruce Hicks , a
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. The company is making
“substantial progress,” Hicks said.  Elise Eberwein, a US Airways spokeswoman, said the company
wouldn’t comment beyond its regulatory filing.  Shares Retreat  US Airways fell 1.8 percent to $9.34 at 4:01 p.m. in New
York. The shares surged 16 percent yesterday after people
familiar with the matter said that American’s major unions
agreed to support a takeover offer, fueling speculation that a
bid might come today after months of buildup.  US Airways may be “no more than” six weeks away from
filing its own reorganization plan for AMR,  Hunter Keay , a New
York-based analyst for Wolfe Trahan & Co., said in a report. The
union deals show some support on the creditors committee to end
AMR’s exclusivity “in the very near term,” he said.  CEO Doug Parker said US Airways’ merger plan would preserve
6,200 jobs that American plans to cut.  “Combining American Airlines and US Airways would create a
pre-eminent airline with the enhanced scale and breadth required
to compete more effectively and profitably,” Parker said in a
letter to employees.  A merged airline would be the largest in the world by
passenger traffic, surpassing  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
American is the third-biggest in the U.S., while US Airways is
No. 5. The company would keep the American name and Dallas-Fort
Worth headquarters, according to terms from US Airways in
documents provided to the unions.  ‘Far Brighter’  “Our airline’s future is far brighter with this
transaction and the US Airways team,” the Association of
Professional Flight Attendants said today in a statement e-
mailed to members.  US Airways’ filing didn’t spell out terms reached with the
three unions, which represent about 48,000 active employees at
American and have been at odds with management since before
AMR’s Nov. 29 bankruptcy filing.  According to union documents sent to flight attendants,
members wouldn’t face furloughs under a US Airways takeover,
while their  pension plan  would be frozen and replaced with
401(k) retirement accounts. The Allied Pilots Association said
the combined company would stay in the Oneworld airline alliance
and complete pending jet orders with  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS.  Pilots’ View  Pilot leaders achieved more in a week of bargaining with US
Airways than in negotiations with American dating to 2006, and
proposed contract language will be completed and sent to union
members for a vote, APA President  David Bates  said.  The union “does not believe that AMR’s business plan will
produce an airline that is viable long term,” Bates told
members in a letter. “Based on management’s actions to date,
their vision -- quite simply -- consists of rejecting our
contract entirely.”  Officers from the APA and the US Airline Pilots Association
will meet next week to discuss a potential combination, the
union for US Airways pilots said.  Support of a possible US Airways merger is one part of the
TWU’s strategy to gain the best outcome for members,
International President  Jim Little  said in a letter to the
union. The TWU, American’s largest union, has continued talks to
reach a consensual agreement on a new contract even as it lends
support to a possible US Airways bid.  ‘Nothing Is Certain’  “How this plays out remains to be seen,” Little said.
“Nothing is certain in bankruptcy.”  An American-US Airways combination would face labor
challenges of its own.  US Airways’ pilots have yet to move onto a single contract
because of a legal dispute over meshing the seniority lists of
the old US Airways and America  West Holdings Corp. (1407) , more than
six years after they combined. Flight attendants rejected a
proposed five-year contract last month that would have put those
work groups under one agreement.  Parker disclosed in January that US Airways had hired
advisers to study a combination with AMR, and executives later
began meeting with American’s unions, people familiar with the
talks have said. The CEO said last month that US Airways learned
the value of courting constituencies at a merger target after
its hostile bid for  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  failed in 2007.  American, dethroned as the world’s largest airline last
decade after it sat out a round of industry consolidation,
immediately drew interest as AMR sought court protection.  Delta and private-equity group TPG Capital also have
evaluated possible bids for American, people familiar with the
matter have said. According to the documents sent to flight
attendants, Atlanta-based Delta never reached out to the union
to explore a bid for American.  The current US Airways was created in 2005 when Parker,
then CEO of America West, orchestrated a merger to bring the old
US Airways out of bankruptcy. He later failed in the Delta bid
and in two attempts to merge with United Airlines parent UAL
Corp. Delta acquired Northwest Airlines Corp. in 2008, and UAL
combined with Continental Airlines Inc. in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  