-- Vestas Valuation Tempting Buyers Tilting at Windmills: Real M&A
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i ,   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-04-20T15:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/vestas-valuation-tempting-buyers-tilting-at-windmills-real-m-a.html
For companies prepared to buy into
the future of wind power,  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  offers the
chance to grab the world’s largest turbine maker for less than
it would be valued at in a fire sale.  Vestas traded at a record low of 0.52 times net assets last
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, before
speculation emerged that its two biggest Chinese rivals,  Sinovel
Wind Group Co. (601558)  and Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co.,
are considering a bid. Even after Vestas jumped by the most in
more than two months, it was still valued at a 76 percent
discount to sales yesterday, less than any renewable-energy
equipment maker with at least $1 billion in market value.  While Vestas  lost money  on each dollar of sales last year
as turbine prices fell and is now grappling with the loss of
wind-project subsidies in the U.S., Spain and  India , the Aarhus,
Denmark-based company could still lure buyers with its
technological expertise and market position, Sydbank A/S said.
Sinovel and Goldwind, which get almost all their sales in  China ,
could expand in the U.S. and  Europe  by acquiring Vestas, while
industrial companies in  South Korea  may want Vestas to gain a
foothold in  wind energy , Sydbank and Danske Markets said.  “Vestas has one of the most developed technology platforms
and a truly global distribution network,” Kasper From Larsen,
an analyst at Danske in Copenhagen, said in a phone interview.
“You’re getting the asset right now for a very low price. You
could have several industry players looking at the company.”  Today’s Trading  When asked this week in an interview at the European Wind
Energy Association conference in Copenhagen whether the company
has received any takeover approaches or whether it would
entertain any offers, Vestas Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  declined to comment.  Shares of Vestas climbed 5.1 percent to 54.05 kroner as of
5:16 p.m. in Copenhagen today. The gain was the second biggest
in Europe’s benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   Vestas was  set up  in the small farming town of Lem in 1898
in a blacksmith workshop, becoming a manufacturer of steel
window frames for industrial buildings and later household
appliances and agricultural equipment, according to its website.
The company delivered its first  wind turbines  in 1979 and is now
the world’s biggest wind turbine maker, reaching 50 gigawatts of
cumulative installed machines this year -- about a fifth of the
global total, according to the company’s website and the
Brussels-based  Global Wind Energy Council . A gigawatt is about
enough power to supply 800,000 homes in the U.S.  After increasing revenue each year for a decade since going
public in 1998 and posting record  operating earnings  in 2008,
Vestas had sales declines in two of the past three years and
posted a net loss in 2011 as falling turbine prices squeezed
margins and growth in installations across the industry slowed.  Costs, Delays  Vestas, with a market value of 10.5 billion kroner ($1.9
billion) as of yesterday, attributed the loss to higher-than-
expected development costs from its flagship V112 turbine and a
delay in starting a generator factory.  The company’s chief financial officer resigned in February,
a month after Vestas said it would cut 2,335 jobs as part of
cost-reduction measures.  Industrywide,  prices  of turbines sold in the second half of
2011 fell to 910,000 euros ($1.2 million) a megawatt, the lowest
since at least 2008, when records began, according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance. Wind-power  installations , which grew at an
annual rate of about 36 percent in the five years through 2009,
expanded just over 5 percent the following two years combined,
according to Global Wind Energy Council data, as banks tightened
financing and governments threatened to rein in support for
clean-energy projects.  Renewable-Energy Subsidies  Spain  in January declared a moratorium on subsidies to new
renewable-energy plants, while India, the world’s third-biggest
wind market, reduced a tax break this month.  In the U.S., the second-biggest turbine market after China,
a Treasury grant program offering as much as 30 percent of
development and construction costs for renewable-energy plants
expired on Dec. 31. Another incentive, the Production Tax
Credit, expires at the end of 2012. Vestas in January said it
may cut an additional 1,600 jobs in the U.S. if lawmakers don’t
extend the credit, which gives an incentive of 2.2 cents a
kilowatt-hour of wind power.  Vestas stock, which reached a record 692 kroner in June
2008, fell 72 percent  in the past year  to 51.45 kroner through
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Tough Time’  “Vestas is going through a pretty tough time,” Edward Guinness, who helps oversee $900 million at Guinness Asset
Management Ltd. in  London , including Vestas shares, said in a
phone interview. “They really have not coped brilliantly with
the falling prices of turbines and it’s a disappointment that
they didn’t act faster on bringing costs down. There’s been hope
that things would get better, and they haven’t.”  The slump in Vestas shares left the company trading at a 48
percent discount to the value of its assets minus liabilities,
its lowest price-to-book ratio on record, data compiled by
Bloomberg show, before speculation emerged this week about the
company attracting takeover interest.  Sinovel and  Goldwind (002202)  are considering a bid for Vestas, the
newspaper Jyllands-Posten  reported  this week, citing
unidentified people it said were close to the process. After the
report, Danish Energy Minister Martin Lidegaard said the
government wouldn’t block a possible bid for Vestas by a Chinese
company.  Xiao Qiang, media manager for Beijing-based Sinovel, said
the company had no comment as to whether it’s considering a bid
for Vestas. A spokesman for Goldwind said the Xinjiang-based
company also declined to comment.  Discount to Sales  Even after gaining more than 5 percent this week, Vestas
still traded yesterday at 0.54 times book value, compared with
an average price-to-book ratio of 3.08 for renewable-energy
equipment makers with a market capitalization greater than $1
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. A price-to-book ratio
of less than 1 implies a company would fetch more if
shareholders fired management and sold all of its assets.  Vestas also traded at 0.24 times its sales, the lowest of
the group, the data show.  For Sinovel and Goldwind, which derive the bulk of their
revenue in China, purchasing Vestas would give them access to
markets around the world and to the company’s technology,
according to  Jacob Pedersen , an Aabenraa, Denmark-based analyst
at Sydbank. Vestas wind turbines operate in 69 countries
worldwide, according to the company’s website.  ‘Strategic Sense’  “It makes very good strategic sense for the Chinese
companies,” Pedersen said. “What they lack is quality and
presence outside China, and that’s exactly what Vestas has
got.”  Vestas could also be of interest to large companies in
 Japan , where the government has been pushing for alternatives to
nuclear energy after last year’s Fukushima disaster, and in
South Korea, which is setting itself up as a green technologies
manufacturing base, Pedersen said.  For a diversified company such as  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
which makes everything from wind turbines to medical-imaging
equipment, Vestas may also be a good fit, said Danske’s From
Larsen. The Danish turbine maker could help Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE expand its wind operations and add to its
technological expertise, he said. Lindsay Theile, a spokeswoman
for GE, declined to comment.  Despite the takeover speculation,  short sellers  have become
increasingly pessimistic on the prospects for Vestas. In a short
sale, traders sell borrowed stock on the assumption the price
will decline and enable them to profit by buying the shares back
at a lower price.  Bearish Bets  More than 22 percent of Vestas’s 203.7 million outstanding
shares were sold short as of April 17, the highest percentage on
record for the company, according to New York-based research
firm  Data Explorers . Short interest in Vestas also exceeded 597
stocks in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, in which companies average
about 3 percent.  Vestas may have trouble luring a buyer while the wind
industry faces a decline in demand and excess production
capacity, according to David Vos, a London-based analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. The company can manufacture more than
8,500 megawatts of turbines a year, according to its  annual
report . Turbine production and shipments totaled 5,054 megawatts
last year, or about 60 percent of capacity.  “It doesn’t make sense for any player to add so much
capacity to their operations at this point in time,” Vos said.
“The major conglomerates who might have the spending power to
purchase assets have overcapacity themselves, and you’re facing
a structural demand decline over the next two or three years.”  China Headwinds  Speculated Chinese buyers such as Goldwind may find it
difficult to get financing for a large acquisition, according to
Guo Shou, a Hong Kong-based analyst at  Barclays Capital .
Goldwind, which has a market value of about $3 billion, said
last week that profit may have been wiped out in the first
quarter as the wind market slowed and prices fell.  Still, the wind industry’s long-term growth potential could
make Vestas attractive, said Guinness at Guinness Asset
Management. The Global Wind Energy Council forecasts annual wind
installations will grow at an average of 8 percent a year for
the five years through 2016, more than doubling total installed
capacity worldwide.  Vestas predicts shipments to rise to 7 gigawatts of
turbines this year from 5 gigawatts last year. The company’s
backlog of orders rose to 9,552 megawatts at the end of 2011,
worth about 9.6 billion euros in future sales, a record for the
company, according to its annual report, and analysts project
the company will return to profit this year.  Long View  A strategic buyer could afford to pay about 80 kroner a
share because it can “unlock value through restructuring and
synergies,” Patrick Hummel, an analyst at UBS AG in Zurich,
said in an e-mail. While that would equate to more than a 55
percent premium to yesterday’s closing price, it would still
value Vestas at a 16 percent discount to its book value of 94.68
kroner a share, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Ultimately, you’ve got a good, solid business here with a
very attractive product that is just going through a low point
in the cycle,” Guinness said. “You have to have a long-term
perspective.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in  New York  at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in Copenhagen via 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at +44-20-7330-7862 or  landberg@bloomberg.net . 