-- Vestia Derivatives Fraud Probe Expanded by Dutch Prosecutor
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-04-20T09:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/vestia-derivatives-fraud-probe-expanded-by-dutch-prosecutor.html
The Dutch public prosecutor
expanded its probe of possible fraud linked to derivatives used
by Stichting Vestia Groep after a financial official at the
housing organization was arrested last week.  “Besides the two suspects mentioned before, there are
several other suspects in the investigation,” Esther Schreur, a
spokeswoman for the prosecutor, said today by telephone. She
declined to specify the exact number of people or their
identities.  Vestia is the subject of several probes after it needed 1.6
billion euros ($2.1 billion) of government-guaranteed loans to
make payments stemming from margin calls on interest-rate swap
contracts with several banks. The organization is also
conducting its own forensic investigation, according to
spokesman Ronald Florisson.  The prosecutor said on April 14 it was investigating
transfers between an intermediary and a financial official at
Vestia for possible bribery,  tax fraud  and  money laundering  in
relation to derivatives used by the housing organization. One of
the suspects was arrested on April 13. That person is Vestia’s
treasurer, Marcel de Vries, said two people with knowledge of
the situation who declined to be identified as the investigation
is still pending.  None of the other suspects have been arrested, Schreur
said. At this point banks involved in the derivative contracts
and Vestia’s former management-board Chairman Erik Staal are not
among the suspects, she said.  Dutch newspaper  De Telegraaf  reported on the widening of
the probe earlier today.  De Vries didn’t respond to an e-mail from Bloomberg News
seeking comment on the matter. A phone call to a number
mentioned in his out of office reply wasn’t answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  