-- Vivendi, Peugeot Lead French Bond Issues Rush Ahead of Election
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-04-20T07:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/vivendi-peugeot-lead-french-bond-issues-rush-ahead-of-election.html
French companies are monopolizing
Europe’s  bond market  this month as they raise debt ahead of the
presidential elections amid concern anti-business policies may
drive up borrowing costs.  Vivendi SA (VIV) , owner of the world’s largest music and video-
game makers, led French companies in raising 2.5 billion euros
($3.3 billion), the only investment-grade corporate issuers in
the market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Junk-rated
carmaker  Peugeot SA (UG)  and unrated Galeries Lafayette SA, which has
its flagship department-store in Paris, raised a further 1.1
billion euros.  The cost of insuring French company debt is at a three-
month high ahead of the first round of voting this weekend and
the final on May 6. Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande , who
is pledging higher taxes and delayed deficit cuts, leads rival
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  by 16 points, according to a CSA poll
this week.  “A new leader with the policies that Hollande is proposing
is unlikely to endear the markets towards French names,” said
 Suki Mann , a strategist at Societe Generale SA in London. “The
market will be more comfortable if Sarkozy wins and retains the
status quo.”  Vivendi, owner of  Universal Music Group  and the Canal Plus
pay-TV operator, issued 300 million of 4.75 percent nine-year
notes on April 12, at 190 basis points over swaps. A spokesman
did not respond immediately to an e-mail seeking comment.
Vivendi is rated Baa2 by Moody’s, the second-lowest investment
grade level, and BBB by  Standard & Poor’s .  ‘Betrayal’  Hollande has called finance his “biggest adversary” and
the European Union’s fiscal compact “a betrayal of French
sovereignty and democracy”. He has pledged to introduce a
variable corporate  tax rate , which would rise to 35 percent from
33 percent for large companies, and an additional 15 percent tax
on bank profits.  “Companies that are currently paying 250 basis points over
swaps to print now would have to pay an excess premium of at
least 50 basis points more to get it done in a new corporate tax
environment under Hollande,” said Steven Mitra, a partner at
LNG Capital LLP in  London .  The Socialist leader has also promised to increase France’s
minimum wage, cut the  retirement age  to 60 from 62 and introduce
a 75 percent levy on earnings of more than 1 million euros.  ‘Difficult Period’  “The most difficult period for the market is the gap
between the presidential election and the legislative elections
in June,” said Geraud Charpin who helps oversee $42 billion at
BlueBay Asset Management Ltd. in London. “If Hollande is
elected, his rhetoric will be leaning on the left to make sure
the Socialists have a comfortable majority in the assembly.”  Peugeot, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, raised 600
million euros of 5.625 percent notes due 2017 on April 3, with a
spread of 412.5 basis points over swaps. “Peugeot looks for
opportunities in the market on a permanent basis,” said a
spokesman for the carmaker, who declined to be named citing
company policy. The elections did not influence the company’s
bond sale, he said.  RCI Banque SA, the banking unit of  Renault SA (RNO) , France’s
second-biggest automaker, raised 650 million euros of 4.25
percent five-year bonds on April 18 at 290 basis points more
than swaps.  “This new issue confirms the confidence of investors in
the financial strength of the company and proves again the
capacity of RCI Banque to regularly access the bond market,”
Caroline De Gezelle, a spokeswoman for Renault in Paris, said in
an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Martin at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  