-- Vornado’s Size Prevented Real Estate Purchases, Roth Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-04-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/vornado-s-size-prevented-real-estate-purchases-roth-says.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  Chairman
 Steven Roth  said the size of his company made him reluctant to
to take advantage of plummeting commercial real estate prices
during the U.S. recession.  “We were a little too large,” Roth, whose New York-based
firm owns more than 100 million square feet (9.3 million square
meters) of office buildings and other real estate, told business
students at a Georgetown University forum yesterday. “It never
threatened the company, not for one second, but it made us
reluctant to really jump into the game” when “they were giving
stuff away in 2009 and 2008,” he said.  Commercial property values plunged in the U.S. as the
economic slump hurt demand for space at office buildings,
shopping malls and other real estate. Real estate investment
trusts’ property values fell 38 percent after peaking in August
2007, and have gained 50 percent since the May 2009 bottom,
 Newport Beach , California-based research firm Green Street
Advisors Inc. said in an April 5 report.  Roth’s remarks, during a panel discussion at Georgetown's
McDonough School of Business in  Washington , were his first since
saying that Vornado intends to sell assets and to hold quarterly
conference calls with investors for the first time to help raise
the company’s stock price. Those plans were disclosed on April
13 in Roth’s annual letter to shareholders.  Vornado was “constrained by our balance sheet, which
wasn’t vulnerable, but not ready to rock,” Roth said at
yesterday’s event, co-sponsored by the National Association of
Real Estate Investment Trusts.  The company fell 0.2 percent to $82.93 yesterday in  New
York . Its shares have declined 8.4 percent in the past year,
compared with a 7 percent gain for the Bloomberg REIT Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  