-- VTB Considers Debt Sales in China, Indonesia in Move From Dollar
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-04-20T01:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/vtb-considers-debt-sales-in-china-indonesia-in-move-from-dollar.html
VTB Group,  Russia ’s second-largest
bank, is planning to move a third of its debt into currencies
other than the dollar by 2015 by issuing bonds in Asia and
Brazil, according to the deputy chairman.  VTB will sell about S$400 million of notes in Singapore
this quarter and is “definitely” looking at issuing Dim Sum
debt, bonds denominated in Chinese yuan and sold in  Hong Kong ,
Deputy Chairman  Herbert Moos  said in an interview yesterday at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York . VTB is also looking at
selling Islamic bonds, or sukuk, in Indonesia, he said.  “The philosophy in all those issuances is not to issue
into size but to issue into demand,” Moos said. “It also
relieves the pressure on our Eurobonds when you route supply
into a new investor base.”  The Moscow-based bank,  controlled  by Russia’s government,
sold S$400 million of bonds due this August in  Singapore  in
2010, and another S$300 million of 2014 notes in May last year.
It also has  debt  denominated in Belarusian rubles, Ukrainian
hryvnia, yuan, Kazakh tenge, Turkish lira, British pounds and
Swiss francs, as well as in dollars, euros and rubles, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Moos said in April last year that the bank wanted to become
the first Russian borrower to sell Shariah-compliant debt, and
was aiming to raise about $200 million in 2011 selling sukuk,
debt that complies with Islam’s ban on interest.  The lender wants to establish “an infrastructure for
issuing sukuk” as Russia also has a large Muslim population,
Moos said yesterday. As much as 15 percent of Russia’s 138
million-strong population is Muslim, according to U.S.
government  data .  VTB is also looking at selling bonds in Brazil, where it
did a non-deal roadshow last year, Moos said. The bank has been
cooperating with Sao Paulo-based  Banco BTG Pactual SA (BBTG11)  on deals,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  