-- Disney’s Film Chief Ross Resigns After ‘John Carter’ Loss
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-04-20T20:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/walt-disney-film-chief-ross-steps-down-after-john-carter-loss.html
Rich Ross, chairman of  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s film unit, resigned following the company’s $200 million
loss on the science-fiction picture “John Carter,” possibly
the biggest ever for a single movie.  The departure of Ross, 50, who has run the  division  since
October 2009 and previously led the Disney Channel, was
announced today in a statement. A successor wasn’t named.  Disney Chief Executive Officer Robert Iger’s strategy of
producing fewer films, built around marketable characters such
as those from its Pixar and Marvel units, faltered with the
failure of “John Carter.” The movie will lead to a quarterly
loss of as much as $120 million for the studio, the first since
Ross succeeded Dick Cook as chairman.  “I don’t know that anybody is shocked,” said  Martin Pyykkonen , an analyst with Wedge Partners in Greenwood Village,
 Colorado , who doesn’t rate stocks. “‘John Carter’ was a debacle
and probably the last straw,” he said, citing past
disappointments including “Mars Needs Moms.”  Disney, based in Burbank, California,  gained  0.6 percent to
$42.35 at the close in  New York . The shares have risen 13
percent this year.  Ross, a 15-year Disney veteran, previously worked at and
led the Disney Channel, creating shows including “High School
Musical” and “ Hannah Montana ,” starring  Miley Cyrus .  “I appreciate his countless contributions throughout his
entire career at Disney, and expect he will have tremendous
success in whatever he chooses to do next,” Iger said in the
statement.  Studio Ranking  Disney ranks seventh among studios in 2012 domestic ticket
sales with $186.7 million, according to researcher  Box Office
Mojo . “ John Carter ,” made for about $250 million, generated
$269.4 million in worldwide ticket sales, a sum shared with
cinema operators.  The film went over budget and was poorly marketed,
Pyykkonen said. Studio marketing chief MT Carney, an outsider
hired by Ross in 2010, left in January, before the movie opened.  Matthew Harrigan , an analyst at Wunderlich Securities in
Denver who has followed the industry for 20 years, said last
month the loss on “John Carter” was the biggest he’d seen.  The studio’s “Marvel’s The Avengers,” estimated by
Internet Movie Database to cost $220 million, opens May 4 to
mark the start of the traditional summer film season in the U.S.  Disney reports fiscal second-quarter earnings on May 8. The
company is expected to post a profit of 57 cents a share, the
average of 28  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg, on revenue of
$9.56 billion. The company had net income of $942 million, or 49
cents a share, on revenue of $9.08 billion a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  