-- Weidmann Says Higher Borrowing Costs Are Reform Incentive
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-04-20T15:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/weidmann-says-higher-borrowing-costs-are-reform-incentive-1-.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council Member Jens Weidmann said higher borrowing costs for
euro-area countries such as  Spain  can act as an impulse to
fiscal reform.  “ Monetary policy  alone can’t solve the crisis,” Weidmann
told reporters in  Washington  today. “Higher  interest rates  are
also a spur toward reforms.”  Spain’s 10-year borrowing costs have jumped more than 1
percentage point since March 2, when Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said the country will miss a 2012 deficit goal set by the
European Union. He unexpectedly announced a 10 billion-euro ($13
billion) package of budget cuts on April 9, less than two weeks
after unveiling the most austere budget in more than three
decades.  Spain, where unemployment is approaching 24 percent, is one
of eight economies in the 17-nation bloc that the European
Commission forecasts to contract this year.  While the outlook for global growth has improved since last
year, Europe’s debt crisis remains the main downside risk,
Weidmann said.  The  International Monetary Fund  this week raised its global
growth forecast for the first time in more than a year,
projecting expansions of 3.5 percent in 2012 and 4.1 percent in
2013. The euro-area economy is predicted to shrink 0.3 percent
this year, an improvement from the 0.5 percent contraction
forecast in October.  IMF Cash  Governments will pledge about $400 billion in additional
funding to the Washington-based lender after a meeting of Group
of 20 finance ministers and central bankers in Washington today,
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today. Japan
said on April 17 it will provide $60 billion to the IMF’s effort
to expand its resources and shield the global economy against
any deepening of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Weidmann said that an increased global fund to tackle
financial crises shouldn’t prevent countries from undertaking
fiscal reforms.  “The firewall that we are talking about here won’t be able
to actually put the fire out,” Weidmann said. “It also can’t
be designed in such a way that it undermines the necessary
reforms. Reforms will show their positive effects over the long
term, and so that trust can grow, after measures have been
announced they have to be implemented.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  