-- Welch’s Says Freeze Damages Grapes Used to in U.S. Juice
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-04-20T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/welch-s-says-freeze-damages-grapes-used-to-in-u-s-juice.html
An April freeze damaged grape crops
from Michigan to  New York  that last year supplied about two-
thirds of the U.S. fruit used to make non-alcoholic grape juice,
government and industry officials said.  About 90 percent of juice-grape crops were damaged in
Michigan, the third-largest U.S. grower, and as much as 50
percent were hurt in New York, the No. 2 producer, and in
Pennsylvania and  Ohio , said Rich Erdle, the director of member
relations for the National Grape Cooperative Inc., the owners of
 Welch’s  juices and jellies. Cold weather destroyed the primary
buds on plants, and secondary buds will produce 35 percent of
normal output, Erdle said.  Apples, grapes and cherries were the hardest hit when
temperatures fell below 32 degrees Fahrenheit (0 Celsius) from
April 6 to April 14 across the Midwest, especially in  Michigan ,
said Dennis Todey,  South Dakota ’s climatologist, who lead a
media briefing by telephone yesterday for the  National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration . The cold spell followed
unusually warm weather in March that led to an early start to
growing season.  “Cold temperatures April 12 and April 13 caused
significant damage to the grape crops,” Erdle said in a
telephone interview from the Westfield, New York, headquarters
of the 1,050-member cooperative, which has growers in five
states and in Ontario,  Canada . “We will know more about the
viability of secondary buds after the second week of May.”  Top Producers  Michigan produced 85,500 tons of grapes processed into
juice and jellies last year, or 18 percent of the total U.S.
supply, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. Output was
more than double the 31,100 tons collected in 2010, when cold
weather damaged crops.  Washington  was the largest grower at
174,000 tons, or 37 percent of the total, followed by New York
at 131,000, or 28 percent, according to the USDA.  “Cold weather did not hurt grapes in Washington,”
National Grape Cooperative’s Erdle said. “Crops in Washington
are about five days behind normal development and just started
to bud this week.”  Native varieties of grapes have been cultivated
commercially in Michigan for more than a century. Farmers in the
National Grape Cooperative grow about 8,000 acres of Concord
grapes and 3,000 acres of Niagara, the white grape, in Michigan,
Erdle said.  Wine, Wheat  Most grapes grown for wine production begin developing
later than juice grapes and were not hurt by the freezing
temperatures, said Linda Jones, the executive director of the
Michigan Grape and Wine Industry Council. The  wine  and grape
industry generated about $800 million in tourism for Michigan in
2005, the most recent data available, Jones said. April is
Michigan wine month, when many wineries begin uncorking the
prior year’s production.  Freezing temperatures also may have damaged wheat crops
across the Midwest and northern Great Plains, according to
Todey, the  South Dakota State  professor. The  condition  of the
winter-wheat crop from  Arkansas  to Ohio fell during the week
ended April 15, the USDA said in a report earlier this week.  “Most of the upper Great Plains and Midwest is a month
ahead, which sets us up for what we saw in the first part of
April,” Todey said. “They are acting like it is early May, not
early April.”  March was the warmest since 1895 in the continuous U.S.
with an average temperature of 51.1 degrees, or 8.6 degrees
above the 20th century average, according to NOAA. At least
15,292 daily high-temperature records were set or tied last
month in the U.S.  Perennial Crops  Perennial crops, including fruit trees and vines that are
not seeded every spring and grow on their own, have suffered the
most damage because they start blooming when the temperatures
rise.  Todey said annual crops that are planted at the start of
each season, such as corn, didn’t suffer much damage because
crop insurance limits how early farmers can plant. Insurers
usually don’t permit crops to be sown before the average date of
the region’s last seasonal freeze. Still, corn planting was 17
percent completed as of April 15, up from an average of 5
percent in the prior five years, the USDA said this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  