-- Wells Fargo Hires Maynard Um of UBS to Cover Technology
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-20T20:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/wells-fargo-hires-maynard-um-of-ubs-to-cover-technology.html
Wells Fargo (WFC)  & Co. hired Maynard Um,
an analyst from  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s securities unit, to cover information-
technology hardware companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Hewlett-
Packard Co.  Um will join Wells Fargo Securities in New York as a
managing director and senior analyst in equities research, San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo said in an internal memo obtained by
Bloomberg. Um will also cover  Dell Inc. (DELL) , International Business
Machines Corp., EMC Corp. and NetApp Inc., Shelley Beason, a
company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Wells Fargo, the most valuable U.S. lender, is bolstering
the investment-banking unit acquired as part of the takeover of
Wachovia Corp. in 2008. Wells Fargo hired about two dozen
investment bankers and analysts from Citadel LLC in August, and
has helped underwrite initial share sales for technology
companies such as Pandora Media Inc. and Groupon Inc.  “We are delighted to have Maynard on board and look
forward to his partnering with the rest of the Wells Fargo TMT
research team,” the bank said in the memo, referring to the
technology, media and telecommunications industry. The memo was
signed by Diane Schumaker-Krieg, global head of research and
economics, and Sam Pearlstein and Todd Wickwire, co-heads of
equity research.  Um spent more than 15 years at UBS, most recently as the
firm’s senior IT hardware equity analyst and published the
bank’s worldwide PC forecast, according to the memo. Um worked
in institutional equity sales before becoming an analyst.  Um takes over from Jason Maynard, who will stay at the bank
and continue to cover technology companies such as Oracle Corp.,
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Microsoft Corp., Beason said in the e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 