-- West Point, Naval Academy Ex-Chiefs Sued Over Rapes
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-04-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/west-point-naval-academy-ex-chiefs-sued-over-rapes.html
The former superintendents of the
 U.S. Military Academy at West Point  and the  U.S. Naval Academy 
were sued for alleged constitutional violations by two former
female students who claim they were raped by classmates.  The ex-superintendents, the current secretaries of the Army
and Navy, and former U.S. Secretary of Defense  Robert Gates 
condoned “a culture which allowed sexual harassment, sexual
assault and rape,” the women said in a complaint filed
yesterday in Manhattan federal court.  Former  West Point  cadet Karley Marquet alleged in court
papers an unidentified upperclassman raped her in 2011 and that
authorities at the academy failed to protect her or take
appropriate action when she reported the incident.  Former Naval Academy Midshipman Anne Kendzior said she was
raped twice by unidentified classmates. Kendzior was forced to
leave the academy without graduating, she said in the complaint.  The lawsuit, which claims the defendants violated the
womens’ right to due process, equal protection and free speech,
seeks unspecified damages.  ‘Thoroughly Investigated’  “The Naval Academy’s sexual assault response and advocacy
program is among the strongest in the nation,”  William Marks , a
spokesman for the academy in  Maryland , said in an e-mailed
statement. “The Naval Academy takes every report of potential
sexual harassment or assault extremely seriously. Every
unrestricted report of sexual assault is thoroughly
investigated.”  Department of Defense spokeswoman Cynthia Smith declined to
comment. Telephone messages and e-mails to the Military Academy
in  New York  weren’t immediately returned. Brian Whitson,
spokesman for The College of William & Mary, where Gates serves
as college chancellor, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment.  The case is Marquet v. Gates, 12-CV-3117, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in  Manhattan  federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  