-- World Bank Sees Slower 2012 Growth in Russia, Eastern Europe
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-04-20T18:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/world-bank-sees-slower-2012-growth-in-russia-eastern-europe-1-.html
Growth will probably slow this year
in Eastern Europe and central  Asia , and the region is at risk
from tighter credit conditions at a time when lending by the
 International Monetary Fund  may be postponed to countries such
as Ukraine, a World Bank official said.  The bank is forecasting growth of 3.5 percent in  Russia 
this year, down from 4 percent last year, said Philippe Le Houerou, a World Bank vice president for the region. Ukraine and
Belarus will expand 2.5 percent and 3 percent this year, slower
than 5.2 percent and 5.3 percent in 2011, he said.  The IMF won’t release new funds to Ukraine until the
country raises household utility tariffs to balance the budget,
Le Houerou suggested, adding that the country may consider
devaluing its currency, the hryvnia, in an attempt to make
exports cheaper.  “Devaluation can be used to recook some competitiveness,”
Le Houerou said at a press conference in  Washington . “It’s not
a taboo issue at all. This is one of the instruments.”  Ukraine agreed on a second $15.6 billion rescue package
with the IMF in 2010, following a $16.4 billion bailout loan in
2008. The lending has been frozen since last March after the
government failed to raise household utility tariffs. The
country is also in talks with the IMF to postpone an outstanding
2012 repayment of about $3 billion to the IMF for 10 years.  “There is an issue with the IMF lending” to Ukraine, Le
Houerou said. “The government has not done reforms,
particularly reform of domestic energy prices.”  “The structural side of the program is not moving forward,
but we believe it will eventually,” Le Houerou added. “Some
energy prices have been subsidized by the government and this is
not good for  energy efficiency .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eric Martin at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net  