-- Yields Fall to Record Low as Bonds Beat Stocks
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-04-20T15:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/yields-fall-to-record-low-as-bonds-beat-stocks.html
Investment-grade corporate bond
yields in the U.S. fell to a record low as the economy grows
enough to allow borrowers to meet debt payments while failing to
spark faster inflation that would boost equities.  Yields declined to 3.392 percent yesterday, below the
previous record of 3.404 percent set on March 2, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master index.
Company bonds globally have gained 0.38 percent this month,
beating stocks for the first time since December as the  MSCI
All-Country World Index (MXWD)  lost 2.4 percent.  While the  International Monetary Fund  is raising its global
growth forecast, boosted by the outlook for the U.S., it said
recent improvements remain “very fragile.” Morgan Stanley
estimates that the global inflation rate will slow to 3.5
percent in 2012 from 4.4 percent in 2011.  “After the experience of 2008, investors’ appetite to own
equities, an asset class with inherently high volatility, has
been reduced,” Ed Marrinan, a macro credit strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview. “Instead, many investors are expressing a
preference to own assets with lower risk profile and more
reliable returns like corporate bonds. Since late March,
equities have taken a knock because of a return of European
anxiety.”  Spanish Threat  Stocks worldwide soared 12 percent in the first quarter
including reinvested dividends, versus a 3.8 percent gain for
bonds globally. Yields on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index, which includes bonds from the most creditworthy to the
riskiest, have declined to 4.17 percent from this year’s high of
4.82 percent on Jan. 3.  “ Spain  is coming back to the spotlight and some investors
are sensitive to the situation,” said Jody Lurie, a corporate-
credit analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.
“The equity market is more affected by these headwinds.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
company credit risk fell for the first time in three days, with
the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, declining 1.5 basis points to a mid-price of
98.6 basis points as of 11:49 a.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Citigroup Most Active  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, declined 0.5 basis point to 29.75 basis
points as of 11:47 a.m. in  New York . The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as corporate bonds widens when they
seek the perceived safety of government securities.  Bonds of Citigroup Inc. are the most actively traded U.S.
corporate securities by dealers today, with 47 trades of $1
million or more as of 11:49 a.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Returns on corporate bonds this month compare with a gain
of 0.015 percent in March, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Corporate & High Yield Index.
Stocks gained 0.71 percent in March, according to the MSCI
index, which includes both emerging and developed-world markets.  ‘A Crunch’  Corporate debt is “fairly valued” even as the Fed is
poised to hold down  interest rates  for too long, stoking higher
inflation and hurting savers,  Martin Fridson , global credit
strategist at BNP Paribas Investment Partners, said yesterday.  “They’re going to have difficulty implementing the exit
plan that they’ve outlined,” partly because lawmakers would
oppose monetary tightening with the U.S. still facing high
levels of unemployment, Fridson said yesterday in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “I
think we’re coming to a crunch at some point.”  The world economy is set to expand 3.5 percent this year,
the Washington-based IMF said April 17 in its World Economic
Outlook, boosting its forecast from 3.3 percent in January.  The U.S. will grow 2.1 percent this year and 2.4 percent in
2013, the IMF said. The euro area economy is projected to
decline by 0.3 percent in 2012, an improvement from the 0.5
percent previously forecasted.  Intel, IBM  “The global recovery is strong enough to support  credit
quality  but there’s enough uncertainty out there to prevent
companies from re-levering their balance sheets,” Jeffrey Meli,
the head of credit strategy at Barclays Plc in New York, said in
a telephone interview.  Signs the economy is gaining traction had led investors to
riskier assets such as stocks in the first quarter.  Santa Clara ,
California-based  Intel Corp ., the world’s largest semiconductor
maker, and International Business Machines Corp., the biggest
computer-services provider, posted the slowest sales growth in
more than two years this week.  IBM’s revenue climbed 0.3 percent to $24.7 billion last
quarter, while Intel sales rose 0.5 percent to $12.9 billion.
That was the smallest increase for either company since the
third quarter of 2009.  “Stock markets are focused on growth,” RBS’s Marrinan
said. “When economies are in recession, companies’ earnings are
inevitably impacted by market conditions in which they operate.
Bond investors, in contrast, are less focused on a company’s
scope to grow profit than on their ability to service its
debt.”  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis also is weighing on
investors, with Italian and Spanish bonds leading declines
yesterday among the region’s higher-yielding  government
securities . Spain’s unemployment rate ended last year at 22.9
percent, compared with 8.3 percent in 2007.  “When risk flares up, people roll down the risk
spectrum,” Meli said. “A repercussion of the credit crisis is
that there is a preference for fixed income because of the
greater volatility in equity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  