-- YRC Worldwide Seeks Reset of Covenants Under 2011 Agreement
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-04-20T18:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/yrc-worldwide-seeks-to-reset-loan-covenants-under-2011-agreement.html
YRC Worldwide Inc. (YRCW) , the U.S.
trucking company that averted bankruptcy in 2009, is seeking to
change the terms of a loan agreement signed last year in order
to remain in compliance with financial requirements.  The company is proposing to amend its covenants under a
July credit agreement that would increase its total leverage
multiple, or the ratio of debt to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, by 35 percent to 55
percent, YRC said today in a regulatory filing. It’s also
seeking to reduce thresholds for consolidated Ebitda by 25
percent to 35 percent and for the interest-coverage ratio by 30
percent to 40 percent.  YRC, the second-biggest publicly traded trucker in the
U.S., has posted a loss in five of the past six quarters as
competitors including  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  Con-way Inc. (CNW)  grabbed
market share by lowering prices and attracting customers. The
 Overland Park , Kansas-based company projected in a Feb. 28
filing that it wouldn’t earn enough money to satisfy
requirements of its credit agreement and would have to
renegotiate.  The company said today that since October it has exceeded
its forecasted adjusted consolidated Ebitda in the aggregate,
according to the filing. Suzanne Dawson, a spokeswoman for the
company, didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  YRC credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, yesterday climbed to the highest level since
February 2009.  Cost Comparison  A ratio of YRC’s costs compared with revenue increased in
the past two quarters, while Con-way’s decreased, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The less-than-truckload business,
which relies on a healthy  U.S. economy  for its success, is
concentrated among the top providers, with the 10 biggest
carriers accounting for about 67 percent of the $33 billion U.S.
and Canadian market, the data show.  In the Feb. 28 filing, the trucker’s auditor, KPMG LLP,
said its financial condition raises “substantial doubt about
the company’s ability to continue.” YRC has $175 million of
pension payments and $48.3 million of lease obligations due this
year, according to the filing.  Credit-default swaps tied to YRC increased 2.7 percentage
points to 51.7 percent upfront, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. That’s in addition
to 5 percent a year, meaning it would cost $5.17 million
initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million of YRC’s
debt.  Debt Restructuring  JPMorgan Chase & Co. last year arranged an out-of-court
restructuring of the company’s debt. The transaction included a
$175 million first-out loan that pays 7 percentage points more
than the London interbank offered rate and a $225 million last-
out loan that pays interest at 9.75 percentage points more than
Libor, according to the Feb. 28 filing.  Both loans, which are secured by the company’s receivables,
have a 1.5 percent minimum on the lending benchmark and mature
in September 2014. In a liquidation lenders in first-out debt
are repaid before last-out creditors.  In December 2009, the trucker extended a tender-offer
deadline six times before bondholders agreed to swap equity for
debt, allowing the company to delay a $19 million interest
payment that would have left it in an “unsustainable”
position, according to a regulatory filing at the time.  Teamsters Request  The bondholder pushback prompted International Brotherhood
of Teamsters President James Hoffa to ask federal and state
authorities to review “questionable promotion” of credit-
default swaps tied to YRC debt. He named Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, Toronto Dominion Bank,  Barclays Capital ,
and UBS AG as firms with a “history of making markets” in
derivatives trades that would profit from YRC’s bankruptcy.  Goldman Sachs said at the time that the New York-based bank
“neither has a position in, nor makes markets in, YRC corporate
bonds or credit-default swaps.”  After YRC received bondholder approval, Bill Zollars, its
chief executive officer at the time, said Goldman Sachs,
Deutsche Bank, Aristeia Capital LLC, Silverback Asset Management
and a Smith Management LLC unit “got us over the goal line by
going into the market, buying bonds and tendering them.”  Zollars previously said that “the most difficult
bondholders to deal with were investors with credit-default
swaps that paid off if the company went bankrupt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  