-- Zac Efron’s Smitten Marine; Kasdan’s Lovable Mutt: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-04-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-20/zac-efron-s-smitten-marine-kasdan-s-lovable-mutt-movies.html
Do you find Zac Efron’s head
disturbingly round? It’s like a balloon perched atop a (very
nice) body. He could play an emoticon.  In “ The Lucky One ” he’s cast as a Marine in the  Iraq War 
who finds a photo of a beauty (Taylor Schilling), holds onto it
as a good-luck charm and determines, on his return to the
States, to track her down.  He’s a stalker, in other words, though the plot’s creepy
undertones are never fully addressed.  He finds her living with her young son (Riley Thomas
Stewart) and her wise granny (Blythe Danner) and running a
kennel in Cajun country (though nobody has a trace of a Cajun
accent), where he goes to work. Everyone behaves just
beautifully. Even the dogs seem delighted to be boarding.  There would be no story at all without the woman’s ex-
husband (Jay R. Ferguson), a redneck policeman who’s mean and
armed and very tightly wound. You wait for the handsome soldier
and the pretty kennel owner to discover each other and have sex,
and then you wait for the crazy cop to go off. It’s a long hour
and forty minutes.  The director, Scott Hicks, working from a novel by Nicholas Sparks, achieves maximum banality; this is the kind of movie for
which the term “product” was invented. An abundance of golden
light gives it a soft-core glow even though there’s relatively
little sex.  At least the actors are appealing -- with the exception of
Stewart, a little boy so conscious of his cuteness that you may
want to see those dogs unleashed on him.  There’s a climax involving a stormy night, a swinging
bridge and a rushing river that’s so ridiculous it’s almost
worth sticking around for.  “The Lucky One,” from  Warner Bros ., is palying across the
U.S. Rating: * (Seligman)  ‘Darling Companion’  Who could begrudge the perfectly nice mutt that runs off in
Lawrence Kasdan’s cloying “ Darling Companion ?”  Diane Keaton ,  Kevin Kline  and Dianne Wiest head an ensemble
that deserves better than this shaggy dog tale.  Written by Kasdan (“ The Big Chill ”) and wife Meg Kasdan,
“Darling Companion” stars Keaton as Beth Winter, an empty nest
mom stuck in a stale marriage to Joseph (Kline), a career-
focused Denver surgeon.  Beth’s midlife blahs are lifted when she rescues an injured
dog on the side of a road. She names her new pal Freeway, a
moniker the Kasdans struggle to work into every third line of
dialogue.  Hit the Road  During a family gathering at the Winters’s Rocky Mountain
lodge, Freeway bolts while Joseph chats on his cellphone. Beth
blames her ever-distracted husband for the AWOL dog.  Helping Beth and Joseph search are Joseph’s aimless sister
Penny (Wiest); her slightly vulgar but big-hearted boyfriend
Russell (Richard Jenkins); and her surgeon son Bryan (Mark
Duplass), who disapproves of mom’s new beau.  The clan bickers and bonds while traipsing through the
highlands (nicely photographed by Michael McDonough). Joining
the effort is the cabin’s caretaker Carmen, a beautiful gypsy
(Ayelet Zurer) who has visions of the pet’s whereabouts and
intones things like “my people have a saying...”  Freeway’s fate won’t be revealed here, though you’ll surely
see it coming. Any chance of thoughtfully addressing the bond
between man, woman and dog stays lost in the hokum.  “Darling Companion,” from  Sony Pictures Classics , is
playing in  New York  and  Los Angeles . Rating: *1/2 (Evans)  ‘Citizen Gangster’  Canada ’s answer to Clyde Barrow gets his own biopic with
“Citizen Gangster,” director Nathan Morlando’s stylish debut
feature that probably won’t convince the world that the Toronto
bank robber was worth the effort.  Like Toronto’s newspaper readers of the early 1950s,
Morlando and star Scott Speedman are enthralled by Edwin Boyd,
the flamboyant crook whose heists and prison breaks captivated
postwar Canada.  With his face grease-painted like a silent screen idol, the
handsome Boyd flirted with bank tellers as he swiped their cash.
Speedman gets the charm, but can’t wring much significance from
the familiar crime-for-kicks saga.  “Citizen Gangster,” from  IFC Films , is playing in select
cities. Rating: ** (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include a New York  Weekend Guide 
and a  review  of “Clybourne Park.”  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 