-- Accretive Health Lawyer Claims Minnesota Acted in Bad Faith
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-05-02T23:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/accretive-health-accuses-minnesota-official-of-bad-faith.html
An  Accretive Health Inc. (AH)  lawyer
accused  Minnesota  Attorney General Lori Swanson of negotiating
in bad faith before suing the company in January and of
disclosing its confidential data in an April 24 report.  Accretive shares fell nearly 42 percent one day after
Swanson issued her six-part report critical of the Chicago-based
company’s collections practices. Her federal lawsuit accused
Accretive of breaching patient privacy laws.  The company on April 30 asked U.S. District Judge Richard H. Kyle in St. Paul, Minnesota, to dismiss the case, calling it
“factually baseless and legally indefensible.”  “The AG’s office ignored its responsibility to get the
facts straight,” outside counsel Andrew B. Clubok, a partner in
the Chicago-based law firm Kirkland & Ellis LLP said in his 7-
page letter today.  Clubok alleged that his client only provided data he said
was relied upon by Swanson in her April 24 report, “in order to
explore a good faith resolution” to the lawsuit.  In her initial and amended federal court complaints,
Swanson challenged the company’s work for Minnesota-based
Fairview Health Services and North Memorial Health Care.  In her subsequent report, she alleged that Accretive
improperly posted debt collectors in hospital emergency rooms
and patient bedsides.  Compliance Review  Clubok said his client rejected Swanson’s insinuation that
it was an “uber debt collector,” using a German word that
translates to “super,” when individual collections comprise
less than 10 percent of Accretive’s business.  Benjamin Wogsland, a spokesman for Swanson, said in a
statement that the attorney general’s report -- formally called
a compliance review -- is “accurate and documented by the
facts.” Accretive’s emergency room and bedside collections
practices were related by hospital patients, he said.  “There is an old saying among lawyers,” Wogsland said,
“‘if the facts aren’t on your side, talk about the law. If the
law’s not on your side, talk about the facts. And if you don’t
have either on your side, pound the table and blame someone
else. That’s what’s going on here.”  The attorney general’s case is State of Minnesota v.
Accretive Health Inc., 12-cv-00145, U.S. District Court for
Minnesota ( St. Paul ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  