-- Lacker Says More Fed Easing Could Raise Prices
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-05-02T18:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/lacker-says-more-fed-easing-could-raise-prices.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said additional monetary stimulus
probably wouldn’t create more jobs or spur  home construction  and
could cause a surge in inflation.  “It would be quite hard to justify additional monetary
stimulus, absent a dramatic deterioration in economic
conditions, which I do not view as likely,” Lacker said today
in a speech to the Economics Club of Hampton Roads, Virginia.
“Additional easing is unlikely to have much positive effect on
growth prospects, but could well generate a sustained surge in
inflation that would be costly to reverse.”  Lacker has dissented at all three meetings this year of the
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee . On April 25 the
FOMC said the economic outlook will probably warrant
“exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least
through late 2014.” Lacker disagrees, saying in an April 27
statement that “an increase in  interest rates  is likely to be
necessary by mid-2013” to hold down inflation.  More financial instability in  Europe  could damp the U.S.
expansion, Lacker said in his speech. The place to look for
“fallout in the U.S. financial system” from Europe’s credit
crisis is short-term money markets, he said in response to an
audience question.  “U.S. money market mutual funds have substantial exposure
to European banks,” Lacker said.  ‘Most Likely Avenue’  As the European crisis deepened last year, many money
market mutual funds “dramatically” reduced their holdings of
bank debt from vulnerable countries, he said. “If there’s got
to be a spillover,” the most likely avenue for it would be in
money markets, he said.  The Richmond Fed president said the moderate pace of
economic expansion “has meant significant economic hardship”
for many Americans seeking employment. Still, impediments to
growth probably can’t be overcome by more accommodation by the
Fed, he said.  Housing markets are going through a “lengthy adjustment
process,” he said. Lacker said a mismatch between the skills
employers need and what job seekers have to offer may be slowing
hiring. Uncertainties about tax, budget and regulatory policies
may also be discouraging both investment and hiring, he said.  ‘Quite Real’  “The impediments to growth that I have discussed today are
all quite real,” Lacker said. “They are factors for which
 monetary policy  is not the remedy. Monetary policy will not
occupy vacant homes or give unemployed workers the skills to
fill vacant jobs or reduce regulatory and fiscal uncertainty.
Policy is already quite accommodative.”  The personal consumption expenditures price index rose 2.1
percent for the 12 months ending March, near the Fed’s 2 percent
target for the price measure.  Lacker said “a lot of thought and analysis” went into the
decision by the Fed to establish a 2 percent inflation target.  “I am very comfortable with the choice,” he told
reporters after the speech. “I don’t think it would be easy to
temporarily adopt a higher target and then successfully return
to a lower” inflation rate. “In fact, I think it would be very
dangerous.”  Economic indicators show the  U.S. economy  is in a choppy
expansion. Manufacturing grew in April at the fastest pace in
almost a year, propelled by a pickup in orders. The  Institute
for Supply Management ’s factory index climbed to 54.8 last
month, the best reading since June. That may indicate the
economy is picking up from the 2.2 percent annual pace in the
first quarter. The economy grew 3 percent in the final three
months of 2011.  Biggest Quarterly Gain  Employers increased payrolls by 635,000 from January
through March, the biggest quarterly gain since the first three
months of 2006. The pace of hiring slowed in March when
employers added 120,000 jobs, the fewest since October.  The Labor Department will release its April jobs report on
May 4. Payrolls rose last month by 161,000 jobs, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Lacker, 56, has been president of the Richmond Fed since
2004 and is the second-longest serving among all 12 regional
bank presidents after  Cleveland ’s  Sandra Pianalto . He was an
assistant professor of economics at  Purdue University  in  West
Lafayette ,  Indiana , before joining the Richmond Fed in 1989 as
an economist in the research department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at +1-
   chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 