-- Ackman Rejects Canadian Pacific Deal Ruling Out CEO Pick
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-05-02T20:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/ackman-rejects-canadian-pacific-deal-ruling-out-harrison-as-ceo.html
William Ackman , the investor waging a
proxy fight to oust  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) ’s chief
executive officer, ruled out a compromise that eliminates  Hunter Harrison  as a possible successor.  Ackman said his hedge fund, Pershing Square Capital
Management LP, has heard from some railroad shareholders that
 Canadian Pacific ’s board is willing to search for a replacement
for CEO  Fred Green , other than Harrison, and give Pershing four
to five seats on the board. He said Canadian Pacific hasn’t
approached him directly.  “The most important right that shareholders have is the
right to choose which directors should represent their interests
on the board,” said Ackman, who has proposed a slate of seven
nominees to a 16-member board. “That right should be exercised
by the shareholders themselves, not by the board.”  The railroad,  Canada ’s second-largest, needs management
change after trailing North American peers on performance
benchmarks since Green took the top job in 2006, Ackman has
said.  “The company claims their settlement would reduce
uncertainty,” he said in a telephone interview today. “In fact
the opposite is true.”  Stock Performance  The Calgary-based railroad’s proposal would deny the board
a clear mandate for change, and “by eliminating the best
potential candidate from consideration, the future management of
the company will also be extremely uncertain,” said Ackman, who
proposed Harrison as a replacement for Green. Harrison is the
former CEO of competitor  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)   Canadian Pacific advanced 0.2 percent to $78.46 at the
close of New York trading. The shares have risen 27 percent
from Oct. 27, the day before New York-based Pershing Square
disclosed a stake that now amounts to 14 percent.  Many shareholders have told the railroad they prefer a
compromise before the May 17 annual meeting, where directors
will be chosen,  Ed Greenberg , a Canadian Pacific spokesman, said
today.  “Mr. Ackman’s recent public statements indicate he is
opposed to a compromise,” Greenberg said. “If that changes, we
would be pleased to have discussions towards a constructive
resolution that would be in the best interests of CP and all its
shareholders.”  Ackman said Board Chairman John Cleghorn hasn’t contacted
him since breaking off talks in January.  ‘They Should Call’  “ Pershing Square  has always been and remains committed to
committed to advancing the best interests of the company and its
shareholders,” Ackman said in a statement.  “If Mr. Cleghorn
or other directors have ideas they wish to discuss with us
consistent with that objective, they should call me.”
The activist investor’s campaign has won increased support from
investors during the past two months, an April survey from
Toronto-based research company Brendan Wood International
indicates.  About 94 percent of shareholders polled want change at the
railroad, and 75 percent favor Ackman’s proposal to replace
Green with Harrison, Brendan Wood  said  last week. That’s up from
86 and 72 percent, respectively, in February.  Canadian Pacific reiterated in a letter to shareholders
today that its existing management has a strategy in place to
improve performance benchmarks such as the operating ratio,
which compares expenses to revenue.  That plan is already delivering results, Cleghorn said in
the letter, citing first-quarter earnings that topped analysts’
estimates.  The board “unanimously believes that Pershing Square’s
demand that CP replace the company’s CEO with Mr. Harrison would
delay and damage CP’s value-generating plan, and put our
progress and momentum at risk,” Cleghorn wrote.  Green has pledged to  lower  the operating ratio to 68.5
percent to 70.5 percent in 2016 from 80.1 percent in the first
quarter. Harrison is targeting a ratio of 65 percent in 2015,
which the railroad has said is unrealistic.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  