-- Macy’s Asks Judge to Block CEO’s Questioning in Stewart Case
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-05-02T21:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/macy-s-calls-request-to-depose-ceo-in-lawsuit-unreasonable-.html
Macy’s Inc. said  Martha Stewart Living (MSO) 
Omnimedia Inc.’s request to question Chief Executive Officer
 Terry Lundgren  in a contract fight between the two companies is
“unreasonable and untimely” and should be denied.  Martha Stewart  Living yesterday asked New York State
Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey Oing to order Macy’s to make
Lundgren available for a deposition as soon as possible, saying
in a letter that he has “unique, relevant personal knowledge.”  “Mr. Lundgren has no unique, non-duplicative information
relating to any material issue in this action,” lawyers for
Macy’s said in a letter to Oing filed today. “He was not
primarily involved in the discussions with MSLO that led to the
execution of the contract at issue in this case.”  Macy’s said courts in  New York  and elsewhere have
recognized for more than half a century the “apex deposition
doctrine,” which says that high-level corporate executives
shouldn’t be subjected to a deposition when they could
contribute nothing beyond what could be learned from lower-level
employees.  Martha Stewart could have obtained any information that
Lundgren possesses through the depositions of four Macy’s
employees that have already been conducted, according to today’s
court filing.  Macy’s, based in Cincinnati, sued in January to stop New
York-based Martha Stewart Living from executing a sales
agreement announced in December with  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  Macy’s said
it has the exclusive right to sell Martha Stewart-branded
products in certain categories.  J.C. Penney, based in Plano, Texas, acquired a 17 percent
stake in Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million as the U.S.
department-store chain seeks to revive sales with new mini-
stores dedicated to the home goods brand.  The case is  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc., 650197/2012, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 