-- Payroll Survey Signals U.S. Jobs Slowing as Orders Drop: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-05-02T17:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/adp-says-u-s-companies-added-119-000-workers-in-april.html
Companies in the U.S. added fewer
workers last month, according to data from a private survey,
pointing to a cooling in the job market, as the Commerce
Department also reported a decline in factory orders in March.  Private employment increased by 119,000, the smallest gain
in seven months, after rising by 201,000 in March, Roseland, New
Jersey-based ADP Employer Services said. Orders to factories 
fell 1.5 percent following a 1.1 percent gain in February.  Stocks retreated as the smaller-than-projected advance in
payrolls raised concerns government data in two days will show
the world’s largest economy isn’t growing fast enough to reduce
unemployment. A report yesterday showing manufacturing expanded
in April at the fastest pace in almost a year helped send the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  to the highest level since 2007.  “Some slowing of job growth was expected,” said  Gus Faucher , a senior economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc.
in Philadelphia. “As of now, the job market continues to
expand, and we’re getting close to a self-sustaining recovery”
where job growth supports wage gains, he said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent to
1,400.94 at 12:52 p.m. in New York.  Treasury securities  rose,
sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 1.93
percent from 1.94 percent late yesterday.  The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a 170,000 increase for ADP. Projections ranged
from 100,000 to 200,000, based on estimates of 37 economists.  Uncertain Predictor  Over the previous six reports, ADP has been an uncertain
predictor of the Labor Department’s monthly estimate. It was
closest in October, when ADP’s first estimate of private
payrolls overstated the gain by 6,000, and least accurate in
December, when it overestimated employment by 113,000.  The government’s report in two days is projected to show
payrolls increased by about 160,000 in April after rising
120,000 a month earlier, according to the Bloomberg survey
median. The March data raised concern the job market was
cooling, mimicking a slowdown in early 2011 that was
precipitated by a jump in fuel costs and disruptions caused by
the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan .  Ian Shepherdson , chief U.S. economist at High Frequency
Economics Ltd., cut his April payroll estimate after the ADP
data. Shepherdson, in an e-mail to clients in which he called
the figures “disappointing,” lowered his forecast to 125,000
from 200,000.  Sticks to Forecast  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. in  New York , stuck to his projected 175,000
gain. In a note to clients, LaVorgna said that ADP uses figures
on jobless claims to produce its estimate, meaning the jump in
applications surrounding the Easter holiday probably cut into
ADP’s estimate. LaVorgna forecast ADP would show a 125,000
increase.  Elsewhere, joblessness in the 17-nation euro area increased
to 10.9 percent in March, the highest since April 1997, from
10.8 percent a month earlier. Separate data showed euro-region
manufacturing contracted more than initially estimated last
month and unemployment in  Germany , the area’s biggest economy,
unexpectedly climbed.  In  China , a manufacturing index rose in April, signaling a
rebound in the world’s second-biggest economy may help to offset
constraints on global growth from austerity measures in  Europe .  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 2.2 percent annual rate in
the first quarter after a 3 percent pace in the final three
months of 2011, Commerce Department figures showed last week.
Growth was led by the biggest gain in consumer spending in more
than a year.  Expanding in Illinois  Growing demand is generating employment. Volkswagen AG’s
U.S. financing arm said it will expand its  Illinois  office,
adding about 150 new jobs through 2018, as the German automaker
expands its American business. VW Credit Inc. on April 20 broke
ground on a 30,000-square-foot expansion to about double the
size of its facility in Libertyville, Illinois.  The Labor Department’s report on May 4 may also show the
jobless rate probably held at 8.2 percent, economists in the
survey predicted. Unemployment has exceeded 8 percent since
February 2009, the longest stretch of such levels of
unemployment since monthly records began in 1948.  The ADP report is based on data representing businesses
with more than 21 million workers on payrolls. Macroeconomic
Advisers LLC in  St. Louis  produces the data with ADP.  The Commerce Department’s report showed orders to U.S.
factories were restrained by a pullback in demand for aircraft
that overshadowed gains elsewhere.  Turbines, Appliances  Bookings fell 1.5 percent after a revised 1.1 percent gain
in February, according to figures from the Commerce Department.
Turbines and household appliances were among areas showing
increases as demand for commercial planes dropped by 48 percent.  The report comes a day after  purchasing managers  said
manufacturing expanded in April at the fastest pace since June
as orders, production and employment picked up, indicating the
slump in bookings may be short-lived. Exports and  consumer
spending  on big-ticket items like automobiles may be making up
for a cooling in business investment, which means factories will
continue to support the expansion.  Orders “have been on a see-saw pattern over the past four
months, largely because of big swings in civilian aircraft,”
 Steven Wood , president of Insight Economics LLC in Danville,
 California , said in a note to clients. “Despite this month’s
decline, new orders have been on a rising trend,” he said.
“The demand for manufactured goods is recovering moderately.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 Schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  