-- Baht Drops as Importers May Boost Dollar Buying; Bonds Decline
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-05-02T08:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/thai-baht-near-one-month-high-on-u-s-china-data-bonds-fall.html
Thailand ’s baht fell, retreating from
a one-month high, on speculation importers will boost dollar
purchases to take advantage of a favorable  exchange rate . Bonds
declined as the central bank kept borrowing costs unchanged.  Companies probably bought dollars to meet overseas payments
after the baht rallied through the five days ended April 30,
making foreign exchange cheaper. The Bank of Thailand left its
one-day bond repurchase rate at 3 percent as predicted by all 18
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The baht rose earlier
after separate reports showed manufacturing picked up in China
and the U.S.  “Importers still play a major role here and some investors
may have taken profit from the baht’s appreciation earlier,”
said Amonthep Chawla, a Bangkok-based analyst at  Kasikornbank
Pcl. (KBANK)  “The BOT decision was in line with expectations and it
doesn’t seem to have an impact on markets.”  The baht dropped 0.4 percent from April 30 to 30.84 per
dollar as of 3:15 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 30.68 earlier, the strongest level since
March 28. Local financial markets were closed yesterday for a
public holiday. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
foreign-exchange swings used to price options, was little
changed at 4.52 percent.  A central bank report showed on April 30 that imports rose
21.5 percent in March from a year earlier, the biggest increase
since September, as companies replaced machinery damaged in last
year’s floods, which were the worst in almost 70 years and
affected two-thirds of the country. Exports fell 6.8 percent.  The yield on Thailand’s 3.25 percent bonds due June 2017
rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.63 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 