-- Thailand Holds Rate as BOT Resists Government Call for Cut
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-05-02T08:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/thailand-holds-key-rate-as-bot-resists-government-call-for-cut.html
Thailand’s central bank kept its key
 interest rate  unchanged for a second straight meeting, resisting
pressure from the government to resume easing as it guards
against the risk of inflation amid rising wage and oil costs.  The  Bank of Thailand  held its benchmark  one-day bond
repurchase rate  at 3 percent, it said in Bangkok today, a
decision predicted by all 18 economists in a Bloomberg News
 survey . The monetary authority cut a combined 50 basis points in
November and January.  Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong in March urged the
central bank to reduce borrowing costs to help businesses
recover from last year’s floods, even as the  International
Monetary Fund  said last month Asian nations should prepare to
tighten policy as price pressures rise. Premium benzene, an
additive of gasoline, has gained 23 percent in  Thailand  this
year, and wages have climbed in Bangkok and six other provinces.  “The central bank may want to take a wait-and-see attitude
for a while” said  Yuji Kameoka , chief currency strategist at
Daiwa Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “Inflation risks remain, while
economic growth is not really accelerating.”  The  Thai baht  fell 0.4 percent to 30.84 per dollar as of
3:39 p.m. in Bangkok. It has gained more than 2 percent this
year. The benchmark SET index climbed 0.8 percent.  Deemed Appropriate  Kittiratt on March 23 said he’d like to see the policy rate
fall by “at least” 50 basis points after the Bank of Thailand
joined central banks from  Australia  to  South Korea  in keeping
borrowing costs unchanged.  “External factors continue to be a major risk to growth
while inflation remains manageable,” Bank of Thailand Assistant
Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said in a statement today. The
current level of the policy rate is “deemed to be appropriate in
supporting a smooth recovery of economic activity to normal
levels while keeping inflation within target,” he said.  Inflation slowed in April to the lowest in more than two
years, and the commerce ministry has maintained its forecast for
this year at between 3.3 percent and 3.8 percent.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has said she is worried
about an increase in the cost of living. Rising oil prices are
uncontrollable, she said, “but we will try to minimize impacts.”  Factories have struggled to resume full production since
last year’s floods and  exports  fell for the fourth time in five
months in March, while  industrial output  also contracted.  Willing to Spend  Thai  consumer confidence  rose for a fifth straight month in
April, the University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce said today,
helped by higher wages. Pay in Bangkok and six other provinces
rose to 300 baht ($9.7) a day from April, and climbed an average
of 40 percent in the rest of the country.  “Consumers are more willing to spend money as economic
conditions improve after the floods,”  Thanavath Phonvichai , an
economist at the university, said earlier today. Still, the
index hasn’t returned to the pre-flood level, and people are
concerned about the rising cost of living, he said.  Inflation risks remain because of higher wages and oil
costs and a faster-than-expected economic recovery, Paiboon said
today at a briefing. The central bank will monitor price gains
closely, he said, adding that “there is no sign that the low
rates will undermine economic stability.”  The recovery in the first three months was faster than
expected, with manufacturing now expected to improve late in the
second quarter, rather than in the third quarter as earlier
forecast, Paiboon said. Exports will also pick up quicker.  Ready to Adjust  “We have kept interest rates at a low level to support the
economic recovery,” Paiboon said. “We are ready to adjust
monetary policy if necessary in line with the changing
situation,” he said.  The one-year onshore interest-rate swap, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, has climbed 19 basis
points this year to 3.02 percent, reflecting more bets on a rate
increase over the next 12 months. The benchmark three-year yield
has jumped 32 basis points during the period to 3.4 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The central bank’s loosening cycle is over, given the
economy is growing again and inflation risks are tilted to the
upside,” Matthew Circosta, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in
Sydney, said before the decision. Reconstruction spending and
higher wages may raise price pressure, he said, adding that he
expects two rate increases in the second half of the year.  The central bank will raise its economic forecast for the
year, Paiboon said today. The new forecast is scheduled to be
announced in its quarterly report due May 11.  Thailand’s economy, the biggest in  Southeast Asia  after
 Indonesia , contracted 9 percent last quarter from a year earlier,
the steepest decline since 1998. It expanded 0.1 percent in 2011.  The Bank of Thailand in March raised its growth forecast to
5.7 percent. The  Finance Ministry  last week said the economy
will grow more than 2 percent in the first quarter, and
maintained its estimate for this year at 5.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  