-- Tainted Beef Sources to Be Tracked Faster by Investigators
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-05-02T18:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/tainted-beef-sources-to-be-tracked-faster-by-u-s-investigators.html
Sources of tainted beef will be
identified faster under a U.S. plan to improve the tracking of
meat sent from suppliers and processors that may sicken
consumers.  Investigators will search for where the spoiled meat came
from after their own tests find E. coli in beef rather than
waiting days for multiple confirmation tests, the Agriculture
Department said today in a statement. The investigation to find
the origin of the contaminated product, such as a slaughterhouse
or processor, will happen 24 to 48 hours faster, the USDA said.  “These measures will provide us with more tools to protect
our  food supply , resulting in stronger public health protections
for consumers,” Elisabeth Hagen, the USDA’s undersecretary for
 food safety , said in the statement.  Consumer groups for the past decade have pressed for faster
discovery of the meats’ source of E. coli, one of the most-
severe cases of foodborne illness. About 48 million people get
sick and 3,000 die of foodborne illness a year, according to the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.  “It sounds like it’s a step in the right direction,”
Christopher Waldrop, director of the food policy institute at
the  Consumer Federation of America , a Washington-based advocacy
group, said in an interview. “They can find out if contaminated
product has gone to any other users, grinders.”  The plan would go into effect in July following a 60-day
public comment period. The USDA said it takes 13,000 to 15,000
samples from beef a year, and less than 1 percent, or about 60,
initially show a positive result for E. coli.  Meat Recalls  Establishments will have to prepare and maintain procedures
for recalling meat and poultry and notify the agency within 24
hours if a product that could harm consumers has been shipped, a
rule that was required under the 2008 Farm Bill. They’ll also
have to document each re-evaluation of the systems they use to
control pathogens in production.  “Requiring companies to report instances when they have
released unsafe product to USDA right away will give the agency
much better information with which to protect consumers,”
Caroline Smith DeWaal, food safety director at the Center for
Science in the Public Interest, a Washington non-profit health
advocacy group, said in a statement.  More aggressive and faster steps to trace contaminated meat
to its source should benefit consumers,  Bill Marler , a Seattle-
based food safety lawyer, said in an interview.  “From a food safety perspective, that’s pretty
significant,” Marler said. “They’re actually going to go back
and look to see what happens with suppliers.”  Slaughterhouse Conditions  Identifying the source of bad meat means they can find out
at slaughterhouses what conditions may have allowed E. coli to
get into product, perhaps because the operation wasn’t in
compliance on those days or that the presence of a pathogen had
been detected when the meat was on site, Marler said.  With E. coli, most people recover within seven days,
according to the CDC. In 1993, four children died and hundreds
of consumers were sickened from E. coli-tainted beef linked to
Jack in the Box restaurants.  Infections caused by the strain of E. coli now tested for
by the USDA dropped 44 percent in 2010 from 2009, according to a
2011 CDC report.  The agency is also planning to roll out a final rule this
year banning six other strains of E. coli from raw ground beef
and tenderized steaks, an initiative denounced by the beef
industry as being too costly and of little benefit. The USDA has
said it will help prevent illness.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  