-- Malaysian Air, AirAsia Parents Unwind Tie-Up on Protest
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-05-02T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/malaysian-air-airasia-parents-unwind-tie-up-on-protest.html
Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS)  and
 AirAsia (AIRA)  Bhd.’s parent companies will unwind a share swap after
less than nine months following complaints by the flag carrier’s
biggest union.  Khazanah Nasional Bhd., Malaysia’s state-investment fund,
will exchange back its 10 percent stake in AirAsia for the 20.5
percent of Malaysian Air owned by the budget carrier’s biggest
shareholder, it said in a statement yesterday. The shares
Khazanah will get are worth about $29 million less than the ones
it will give up, based on latest market prices. There won’t be
any cash adjustment.  Malaysian Air, with a market value about half of AirAsia’s,
still plans to cooperate with the discount carrier in areas
including maintenance and procurement as it tries to pare costs
and avoid a second straight annual loss. Its largest union met
Prime Minister Najib Razak at least three times to complain
about the share swap because of job concerns.  “The cross-holding of shares has become a distraction to
management’s efforts to turnaround MAS and win stakeholders’
support for collaboration,” Khazanah Managing Director Azman Mokhtar said in the statement. “With this reset, we hope and
believe that it will give all parties renewed impetus to refocus
and move forward together.”  Khazanah will seek a waiver from stock-exchange rules so it
doesn’t have to offer to buy all other shares in Malaysian Air.
The two carriers were halted from trading yesterday.  Tony Fernandes , chief executive officer of AirAsia, and his
deputy Kamarudin Meranun both quit as directors of Malaysian Air,
which is based in Subang outside Kuala Lumpur. The two are
shareholders in AirAsia’s parent, Tune Air Sdn.  “We can now have a clear focus on developing the Asean and
Asian low-cost carrier market which has enormous growth
potential,” Fernandes said in a statement. “The collaboration
efforts will set us in good stead for the future.”  Shares Slide  The two stakes were both worth about $360 million when the
swap was agreed to in August. Malaysian Air has since dropped 29
percent, while AirAsia, the region’s biggest discount carrier,
has fallen 6 percent.  Malaysian Air will no longer be restricted to focusing on
full-service operations after this deal, according to a
 statement . The carrier had earlier agreed to cede the low-cost
market to AirAsia as part of the share swap.  “Under the old arrangement, AirAsia was seen as
benefitting more as MAS agreed to convert its low-cost carrier
business to premium services,” said Ang Kok Heng, who oversees
about 1.3 billion ringgit ($430 million) as chief investment
officer at Phillip Capital Management Sdn. The new arrangement
will benefit the two carriers equally as they will be
cooperating on an operational level, he said.  Union Opposition  The 15,000-member  Malaysia  Airlines Employees’ Union
opposed the share swap as it benefited AirAsia more than
Malaysian Air, even though the flag carrier had more experience
in areas including catering, maintenance and engineering,
according to Alias Aziz, the labor group’s president.  The government has been preparing for a possible early
election in May or June, before the due date in early 2013,
according to four officials who spoke in March on condition of
anonymity because the talks are private.  Malaysian Air is now considering fundraising options, it
said in a statement, following reports that it may sell 3
billion ringgits of bonds.  The carrier’s condition is “quite critical,” Chairman Md
Nor Yusof said in a March 16 statement, after the airline posted
a net loss of 2.5 billion ringgit for last year. That was more
than twice the 1.21 billion ringgit average of 15  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings Outlook  The airline expects another full-year loss in 2012 though
will strive to break even, Chief Executive Officer Ahmad Jauhari
told reporters on Feb. 29. It plans to save 302 million ringgit
this year by paring flights to cities including Johannesburg and
 Buenos Aires , he said.  “Recovery is our main focus along with initiatives to
strengthen the balance sheet and operations through improved
productivity, increasing revenue and lowering costs,” he said
in a separate statement yesterday. “These efforts will
translate into improved financial results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 