-- Allianz ‘on Plan’ With German Non-Life Unit Turnaround
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-05-02T07:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/allianz-german-non-life-unit-turnaround-on-plan-riess-says.html
Allianz SE (ALV) ’s drive to more than double
operating profit at its German property and casualty unit in the
next three years is “on plan,” the head of the division said.  “We have turned the corner in 2011 and are sticking to the
targets we have set for our German non-life business,” Markus Riess, who has led the unit since July 2010, said in an
interview in Munich. The division plans to increase the number
of insurance contracts it sells per customer while lowering
costs and improving claims management, he said.  Allianz set a goal to raise premiums at the German property
and casualty division, its biggest non-life unit by premium
income, by 500 million euros ($661 million) to 9.5 billion euros
by 2014. It plans to trim costs to 26 percent of premium income
from 27.8 percent at the end of last year to help improve the
unit’s combined ratio, or claims and costs as a proportion of
premiums, to 95 percent from 102.9 percent in 2011.  The initiatives, which include the reduction of about 400
administrative positions over the next three years, have the
potential to help improve the unit’s operating profit by more
than 500 million euros, Allianz said in a  presentation  in
February. The unit reported operating profit of 482 million
euros in 2011, compared with 617 million euros in 2010.  “We will improve our sales approach with a more modular
product offering to help lift the number of contracts per
customer from 2.3 at the moment,” said Riess, 46. The unit
applied the strategy to motor insurance last year and will
broaden it to other non-life products such as personal liability
and homeowners’ insurance, according to Riess.  Auto Insurance  Higher prices in some areas are helping Allianz’s efforts.
German auto insurance rates rose last year for the first time
since 2004, ending a price war that steered the 20 billion-euro
market into underwriting losses. Allianz said in February it
secured a “high single-digit price increase” in German motor
insurance in 2011, which is expected to boost earnings starting
this year.  “The real turnaround has to come from our operating
business,” said Riess. “We can’t simply rely on higher prices
or a rise of  interest rates .”  Riess worked from 1993 to 1996 for McKinsey & Co. and was a
management board member at Allianz Global Investors, the Munich-
based insurer’s asset management division, for 10 years until
2007. He then joined the German insurance unit’s management
board with responsibility for sales.  “We aim at returning our German motor business to an
underwriting profit,” he said.  ‘Quick Solution’  Auto insurance premiums fell 1.2 percent to 3.1 billion
euros at the division last year, accounting for 34 percent of
the total at the German non-life business. Riess plans to regain
profitability in the segment by expanding cooperation with car
manufacturers and selling more individual coverage that better
fits a customer’s needs. As part of an effort to boost services,
Allianz has added 400 new positions in claims management.  “Speed is key in  customer service ,” Riess said. “That’s
why we will put the focus on improving the quality of our
telephone hotlines. A customer that gets a quick solution is
much more satisfied than a customer who had to wait a long time
to get a generous claims payment.”  The company also plans to sell more insurance through
independent brokers, Riess said.  Allianz, led by Chief Executive Officer Michael Diekmann,
is targeting operating profit of 7.7 billion euros to 8.7
billion euros this year, compared with 7.87 billion euros in
2011. The company’s shares  advanced  14 percent so far this year,
compared with a 9.5 percent gain in the 28-member Bloomberg
Europe 500 Insurance Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  