-- Allstate’s Profit Increases as Disaster Costs Decline
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-05-02T21:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/allstate-s-profit-increases-as-disaster-costs-decline.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the biggest publicly
traded U.S. home and auto insurer, posted its largest quarterly
profit since 2007 as catastrophe costs declined and policy sales
climbed after acquiring the Esurance online business.  Net income  advanced to $766 million, or $1.53 a share, from
$524 million, or 98 cents, a year earlier, the Northbrook,
Illinois-based insurer said today in a statement. Operating
income, which excludes some investment results, was $1.42 a
share, beating the $1.12  average estimate  of 23 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Wilson , 54, is charging
customers more for homeowners’ coverage after the insurer faced
$3.8 billion in claims costs tied to natural disasters last
year. Allstate booked $259 million in catastrophe costs in the
quarter, compared with $333 million a year earlier. Rivals
Travelers Cos. and  Chubb Corp. (CB)  also posted narrower losses from
natural disasters in the period.  “It was a pretty mild winter across the country,”  Cliff Gallant , an analyst at KBW Inc., said by phone before results
were released. “Except for a few isolated areas in the Midwest
that got hit,” insurers were spared, he said.  Allstate climbed 2.5 percent to $33.73 at 5:13 p.m. in
extended New York trading following the earnings announcement.
The insurer had surged 20 percent this year at the close of
regular trading, compared with the 12 percent advance in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   High Reserves  The insurer booked lower catastrophe costs in the quarter,
in part, because it determined it had set aside more money than
necessary for claims in prior quarters, according to an April 19
statement.  Wilson has reduced sales of some retirement products and
made acquisitions in addition to raising prices for home
coverage to boost earnings. Allstate purchased online car-
insurance seller Esurance in October after losing market share
to direct-to-consumer rivals  Progressive Corp. (PGR)  and  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Geico unit, as younger customers shunned using
agents to buy coverage.  “Being in the direct market is a tool that they need to
have,”  Mark Dwelle , an analyst with RBC Capital Markets, said
before results were announced.  Premium revenue in Allstate’s property and liability
business rose to $6.63 billion from $6.45 billion a year earlier
as the company added Esurance customers. The insurer made 7.9
cents for every premium dollar in its property and liability
coverage compared with 5.1 cents a year earlier.  Realized Capital Gains  Wilson has reshaped Allstate’s investment portfolio since
2008, when writedowns contributed to an annual loss of $1.68
billion. In the first quarter, the insurer bought intermediate
corporate bonds and cut back on short-term Treasuries and long-
term municipal debt  to lift returns  amid near record-low
interest rates.  Net realized  capital gains  in the first quarter were $168
million, compared with a gain of $96 million a year earlier, as
the company sold stocks and booked fewer impairments.  Book value , a measure of assets minus liabilities, advanced
to $38.57 a share from $36.18 as of Dec. 31, the company said in
a  presentation  on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  