-- Amazon Wins SAP as Cloud Partner for Handset Software
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-05-02T20:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/amazon-wins-sap-as-cloud-partner-for-smartphone-software-afaria.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of
enterprise software, chose  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  to host its Afaria
mobile offering on the Internet, giving customers a cheaper way
of managing employees’ smartphones and tablet computers.  Afaria, which lets administrators install applications on
devices, test security and switch functions such as cameras on
and off, will be hosted with Amazon Web Services, Sanjay Poonen,
SAP’s head of global solutions, said in an interview. The deal
may help Walldorf, Germany-based SAP boost its Afaria clients,
which include pharmaceutical company  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  and
Taiwan’s national police agency, by 20-fold to 20,000, he said.  “Some of our competitors who wanted to do this on their
own had problems scaling the software and got corrupted
results,” Poonen said by telephone. “With Amazon, we don’t
have to worry about that, and it’s amazing how the
infrastructure scales up cheaply.” SAP said no contract has
been signed.  Amazon’s Web-based offerings suffered outages last year
that knocked out sites across the U.S., prompting some clients
to question the dependability of so-called cloud services.
Poonen, who a year ago said the crash showed companies in the
industry needed to band together to improve technology
standards, said today that Amazon Web Services is “really
reliable.”  Amazon fell 0.1 percent to $230.25 at the  New York  close.
SAP slipped 0.2 percent to 50.01 euros in Frankfurt.  Verizon, Vodafone  SAP, which aims to more than double revenue from mobile
products this year from 110 million euros ($145 million) in
2011, also is cooperating with companies including  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) ,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Accenture Plc (ACN)  to
extend the reach of its handset-management software.  Researcher IDC predicts the market for mobile security will
rise 35 percent annually to exceed $1.8 billion in 2015.  Getting clients to use device-management software helps to
sell mobile applications, Poonen said.  “The next conversation is how to build or implement apps,
just securing devices isn’t enough,” he said. “It’s a
fantastic door opener.”  SAP is also seeking allies in the development of mobile
applications. Last month, the company announced it will offer an
open development platform with  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , Appcelerator
Inc. and Sencha Inc. Research firm Gartner Inc. in a study last
week ranked SAP’s strategy and execution top among all companies
offering mobile platforms, ahead of peers including Apple Inc.,
International Business Machines Corp. and Google Inc.  Mobile Software  Under co-Chief Executive Officers Jim Hagemann Snabe and
 Bill McDermott , SAP acquired mobile-software and database
company Sybase Inc. in 2010 for about $5.8 billion.  SAP is betting on revenue from mobile applications, on-
demand software and the real-time processing platform Hana to
lift revenue to more than 20 billion euros by 2015. The company
reported 2011 sales of 14.2 billion euros.  The software maker, which on April 10 said it agreed to buy
mobile-application maker Syclo LLC, may make further
acquisitions in the mobile sector to cement its lead of about
“two to three years,” Poonen said. It’s targeting companies
whose technologies can fill gaps in SAP’s lineup, though no deal
is imminent, he said.  “We are not a consolidator of technologies just for the
sake of market share,” he said. “We’re going to look
strategically -- what are the intelligent places where we can
advance in order to stay two to three years ahead of the big
guys? Then they have to follow our moves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  