-- Hamburg Appoints Lufthansa’s Weber Hapag-Lloyd Board Chairman
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-05-02T13:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/hamburg-appoints-lufthansa-s-weber-hapag-lloyd-board-chairman.html
The German city of Hamburg appointed
Juergen Weber as chairman of Hapag-Lloyd AG, the world’s fifth-
largest container line, as the port-town raises its stake in the
shipping company.  Weber, the supervisory-board chairman of Deutsche Lufthansa
AG, will replace TUI Chief Executive Officer Michael Frenzel as
chairman of Hapag-Lloyd’s supervisory board in June, the city
said in a statement today. Weber’s term will last three years,
and then Hapag-Lloyd Chief Executive Officer Michael Behrendt is
willing to succeed him, Hamburg said.  The world’s largest container lines, including  A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , CMA CGM SA and Hapag-Lloyd, all posted
losses last year because of soaring fuel expenses, overcapacity
and a price war on routes between  Asia  and  Europe . As chairman
of Lufthansa, Europe’s second-largest airline, Weber has
experience in a similar industry.  “With his long-lasting responsibility for Deutsche
Lufthansa, Weber has a special understanding of the transport
market,” Hamburg Mayor Olaf Scholz said in the statement.  Hapag-Lloyd has “a good chance” of being successful in
the future, Weber said at a press conference in Hamburg’s 19th
century town hall today. While an initial public offering is
“definitely” possible, there may also be other options, Weber
said. It is “all open,” Weber added.  Seeking Successor  Behrendt will remain CEO of Hapag-Lloyd until June 2014
after agreeing to extend his contract by one year to give the
company enough time to find a successor, according to the
statement. Behrendt would take over as supervisory board
chairman in mid-2015.  TUI AG (TUI1) , owner of Europe’s largest travel company, is
selling a 17.4 percent stake in Hapag-Lloyd to investor group
 Albert Ballin  for 475 million euros ($624 million) to focus on
tourism. Hamburg is part of the group, which will own about 78
percent of the shipping company after the deal. The city’s  stake
in Hapag-Lloyd  will rise to 36.9 percent from 23.6 percent.  Hapag-Lloyd had a loss of 28.8 million euros last year,
compared with a profit in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  