-- Americans Easy Marks With Options Inspired by Powell and Bush
-- B y   P e t e r   R o b i s o n
-- 2012-05-02T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/americans-easy-marks-with-options-inspired-by-powell-and-bush.html
Reverend Rick Christy’s story about
how he lost $11,500 trading options starts in a Michigan sports
stadium with  Colin Powell ,  Rudy Giuliani  and Terry Bradshaw.  They were headliners at an event called Get Motivated! in
Grand Rapids a year ago that cost Christy $4.95 for a ticket and
a few bucks for a concession-stand soda. He was looking for
inspiration, and he said they delivered in speeches that brought
the crowd of 12,000 in Van Andel Arena to its feet.  It was a  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  representative who
left a lasting impression. Bob Kittell, a square-jawed athlete,
delivered a pitch he’s honed across the country: A photo of a
Corvette flashes on a screen, and he asks, wouldn’t you like
one? Articles about secretaries and steelworkers who got rich in
the stock market scroll by, and he asks, wouldn’t you like 17
percent returns? He suggests it’s possible with options trades.  Christy was lured by the bait of celebrity and hooked by
the promise of easy money at a road show that’s been traveling
the U.S. for a decade, drawing as many as 400,000 people a year.
What’s billed as a chance to hear upbeat lectures from the
famous is actually a vehicle for companies to sell investing
tactics, with the implicit promise of high returns, on the same
stage as luminaries like Powell.  The pastor said he stepped forward when Kittell urged
people to buy a $99 course from TD Ameritrade’s Investools. A
few hours later he signed up for more investing lessons sold by
another company. Soon he was buying call and put options and
using a complicated strategy known as the “Iron Condor.” His
accounts shrank to $8,500 from $20,000.  Easy Marks  “I feel taken,” said Christy, 49, senior pastor at Voice
of Hope Church in Wayland outside  Grand Rapids . “I really
thought I was going to turn my life around financially, and I’m
actually worse off a year later.”  Americans are easy marks, particularly at a time of
economic uncertainty and a see-sawing stock market, said  Lynn Turner , the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s chief
accountant from 1998 to 2001.  “People are so hungry for an investment that will give
them enough to retire on,” Turner said. “If someone from a
well-known firm stands up, and people have just heard this
speech by a celebrity and got their adrenalin pumping -- this is
a place where you can sell an Eskimo a refrigerator.”  Until a change of ownership at Get Motivated Seminars Inc.
earlier this year, Investools, a TD Ameritrade unit since 2009,
was the largest source of income for the events, said Richard
Nash, a spokesman for the Tampa, Florida-based seminar series.
The partnership with  Get Motivated  ended in February.  Former First Lady  Before former First Lady  Laura Bush  took the stage at a Get
Motivated assembly in Oklahoma City Feb. 16, a speaker named
Kory Thurston asked people to wiggle their index fingers.  “You just proved you can make money on the Internet,”
Thurston said, as the crowd in Chesapeake Energy Arena clapped.  By purchasing a $29.95 class in Web marketing, he said,
almost anyone could learn to make $1,000 a month clicking a
mouse. He represented National Marketing Resources LLC, another
company that paid to appear on Get Motivated programs.  Billboards and ads in cities ahead of Get Motivated events
tout ticket prices as low as $1.95 for lessons on success and
leadership, without disclosing the sales pitches sandwiched
between the stars. A website says attendees will “be sold on
the value of continuing education” and that “follow-on
workshops may be offered.” People should consult with “tax,
legal, financial, accounting or other advisors before
implementing any views, opinions or advice given during the
seminars,” fine print on the back of a ticket says.  Shooting Flames  The commercial speakers have been fully part of the
pageantry. When Kittell bounded up the steps in  Oklahoma City ,
flames shot from corners of the stage.  At the next Get Motivated, in Des Moines, Iowa, May 8, real
estate and investing workshops will be sold. Comedian Bill Cosby
and Republican strategist Karl Rove are among the billed stars.  The seminars were started in 2002 by Peter Lowe, the son of
a missionary who spent time in  India , and his ex-wife Tamara
Lowe, a self-help book author who writes Christian rap. The
events, which have filled stadiums in more than 30 cities a
year, give Americans a chance to enjoy a show and see prominent
people in person, said Nash, the spokesman.  TD Ameritrade was happy with its Get Motivated partnership,
according to Ted Bloomberg, the Omaha, Nebraska-based
brokerage’s managing director of investor education. He declined
to say why it ended.  Nothing ‘Irrational’  “I would dispute the notion that there’s a hard-sell
environment in a 10,000-person arena,” said Bloomberg, who has
no relationship to Bloomberg News. “We were always very pleased
with the way they presented our product.”  Get Motivated provided as many as 300,000 of the 500,000
students who took Investools classes over 10 years, according to
Nash. Bloomberg called it a “significant portion.”  The collaboration continued after Investools agreed to pay
$3 million in 2009 to settle SEC allegations it let instructors
mislead students into thinking they could make “extraordinary
profits,” and to claim they were expert options traders when
their income really came from selling more courses. Investools
didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing in the case, which covered 2004
to 2007, before TD Ameritrade’s purchase.  Investools teachers disclose all risks and don’t make
guarantees, the broker’s Bloomberg said. “One of the things
we’re very concerned about is people having an irrational view
of what’s possible from a return perspective,” he said.  Flag-Draped Arena  At an Investools course in February, the teacher told
students that options, contracts to trade a security at a set
price by a certain date, could yield 18 percent annually. That
is a performance achieved by fewer than 1 percent of about
41,000 mutual funds over the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Before dawn in Oklahoma City on Feb. 16, hundreds were
already filing into the 16,591-seat stadium for Get Motivated.
People said they came because their bosses bought tickets, or as
members of a church or charity, or to see someone they admired.
Carol Snow, visiting from Maine, carried a hand-made welcome
banner for Bush and waited nine hours to raise it.  Inside the flag-draped arena, retired Pittsburgh Steelers
quarterback Bradshaw strode in to the theme from Fox Sports’ NFL
Sunday broadcast. Bush offered updates on her family. (“Memo to
the ex-president: turmoil in East Timor is no longer an excuse
not to pick up your socks.”) Former  New York  Mayor Giuliani
told people to read, write and have goals.  Buying Corvettes  A speaker introduced as Mark Larson promoted courses in
what he called tax-lien investing that he said could offer 18 to
25 percent annual returns. “And listen closely to the last part
of this: guaranteed,” he said.  Larson and Thurston, who had people wiggle their fingers,
both represented National Marketing Resources of Kearney,
Missouri, according to Nash. It sells online coaching and also
specializes in  credit card  processing, marketing and direct
mail, according to its website. Telephone calls and e-mails to
National Marketing weren’t returned. The speakers couldn’t be
reached for comment.  Tamara Lowe talked about her rise from a drug-addicted
youth and performed rap she wrote, with lyrics including, “You
can shop nonstop or pop a pill/but the void won’t fill and the
pain won’t kill/until you love the one that hung on the hill.”  Powell, a former U.S. secretary of state, confided it was
hard returning to private life after having met kings and prime
ministers. “The solution became obvious, it was perfect: I
bought a Corvette,” he said, to laughter.  ‘Secret Weapon’  Most speeches lasted about 20 minutes. TD Ameritrade’s
Kittell took an hour, revving up the crowd with a photo of the
same model Powell said he owned. He talked about covered  call
options , in which someone who owns a stock sells to another
investor the option to buy it. The stockowner pockets the option
payment no matter what happens to the stock, he said.  “How many of you would like to get a brand-new car and
have the premiums take care of it from your covered calls?”
Kittell asked, to whoops.  He closed with a special deal. The Investools course
Investing Foundation, usually $2,245, was $99. Lights came on in
the walkways. He told people to head toward the light -- and
hurry, “it’s going to get crazy.” Hundreds streamed down.  For TD Ameritrade, the largest U.S. discount broker by
daily trades, Investools is a “secret weapon,” Chief Financial
Officer Bill Gerber said at an investor forum in Miami in
February. “We have an education business that I think is very
unique and helps differentiate us, that really talks about how
to invest mostly in options,” he said.  Super Bowl Wager  Unlike stocks, options expire, so traders often place new
orders. TD Ameritrade charges $9.99 for an order plus 75 cents
for every 100 shares involved. Stock trades are $9.99. Options
customers average 30 options trades and 31 stock trades a year
compared with 24 stock trades for others, according to a survey
released in 2010 by the Options Industry Council trade group.  Andrew Stoltmann , a Chicago securities lawyer, called
Investools courses “the holy grail for a brokerage firm”
because “they get people to pay large sums of money to trade
one of the most profitable investment products around.”  While lucrative for brokers, options are risky for
amateurs, said Mark Sebastian, a former floor trader at the
 Chicago Board Options Exchange  who teaches at Option Pit
Mentoring, which charges $1,800 for a 14-week seminar.  They’re not unlike a  Super Bowl  wager with a point spread:
you have to get both the magnitude and the direction right.
Sebastian said about 10 percent of his students make more
trading options than they would leaving their money in the bank.  Opening Accounts  Eight days after Get Motivated in Oklahoma City, 300 people
sat in a suburban conference room for the Investools Investing
Foundation course. Instructor Rob Lant, 42, said he would level
with them: Trading isn’t as simple as Kittell made it seem.  Lant said he had no intention of getting into the market
until taking the same Investools class seven years ago, which
changed his life and has “blessed everybody” in his family. He
showed pictures of his wife and children and their mountainside
home, talked about their recent vacation at the Wynn resort in
Las Vegas and shared his love of horseback riding.  He started with basics -- how a broker handles trades, how
banking and brokerage accounts can be linked -- and noted TD
Ameritrade representatives were there to help open accounts. He
asked students to bring in financial statements. Then he had
everyone write down two words:  option trading .  “This is not an options class; this is a stock class,” he
said. “But at the same time, I personally like to trade
advanced options strategies.”  ‘Highly Regulated Industry’  He said most people hand their money to mutual fund
managers and pay fees. “What if we could get 1.5 percent return
on your money every month?” he said. “That would be 18 percent
a year. Do you guys think this is possible?”  It is, he said. Lant said he aims for 3 percent to 5
percent a month -- 36 to 60 percent a year -- trading options.  In an interview after class, Lant said he couldn’t say
whether he hit his objective. “I don’t say what my returns
are,” he said. “It’s a highly regulated industry. I can tell
you my goal.”  Stevie Wonder’s “Signed, Sealed, Delivered I’m Yours”
sent students off to a break. Later, Lant told them about stock
and options courses that cost $5,999 and a Complete Investor
class at $19,999, marked down from $28,999.  Better Than Professionals  Many students are happy with the instruction, according to
TD Ameritrade. It provided the name of Evie Petrikkou, a
Colorado Springs photographer who said she has paid $30,000 for
Investools classes. She and her husband now handle most of their
money themselves after watching professionals miss warnings of
the 2008 crash, she said.  “We’re learning so we can actually do at least as well as
what these guys are doing,” Petrikkou said. She declined to say
what her returns have been.  In  Michigan , Christy took the two-day Investools course and
put $4,000 on a credit card to pay for options trading. He said
he learned the drawbacks of the covered call strategy Kittell
heralded. For one thing, he had to buy stock so he could sell
options on it, and he said could only afford second-rate shares
that lost value, wiping out the options premiums he was paid.  “Nobody tells you that,” he said.  The pastor said he also signed up during Get Motivated for a
workshop offered by James Smith Companies, now called WealthRock
LLC. He later bought $12,000 in more WealthRock courses, he
said, financing them at them at $300 a month.  ‘Better Than Reality’  A WealthRock instructor showed him the Iron Condor, which
requires buying four options on one security with four strike
prices and two spreads; it takes its name from the payout
diagram resembling a bird with outstretched wings.  Christy said he complained to WealthRock after the
strategies didn’t work as advertised. A representative offered
to reduce the debt by $2,000 and provide more coaching, said
Christy, who hasn’t given up on trading.  “I know I have been gullible,” he said, blaming himself
and “the ones who made it all sound so easy. They didn’t
outright lie. They just made it sound way better than reality.”  WealthRock is owned by Get Motivated’s new owner and former
CFO, Joseph Johnson of Apollo Beach, Florida. He said WealthRock
stands by the quality of its classes, which cost up to $25,000.
Nash said Johnson paid $11.75 million for Get Motivated. The
business had $4 million in net income in the first nine months
of 2011, according to filings in the Lowes’ divorce, which
became final last month.  Wire Transfers  The Lowes reached agreements that would let them remain
involved in the events, he as a $1 million-a-year consultant
and she as a $25,000-per-appearance speaker, according to
documents filed in the divorce. They declined to comment.  Johnson said it wasn’t necessary to continue the Investools
partnership now that WealthRock and Get Motivated are under the
same management, though he didn’t rule out reviving it.  Until he took over, Investools made wire transfers based on
revenue-sharing that were Get Motivated’s largest source of
funds for most of its history, according to spokesman Nash.
Bloomberg declined to elaborate on the financial terms. Gerber,
TD Ameritrade’s CFO, said April 17 that ending the “vendor
relationship” would have little effect on earnings. The broker
is now marketing Investools through “other channels,”
Bloomberg said.  Among Johnson’s tasks will be resolving a dispute with the
Washington Speakers Bureau, which is owed $1.7 million for Get
Motivated appearances its clients made between November and
February, according to legal documents filed April 6. The bureau
represents Bush, Powell and others, its website says.  Romney Via Satellite  Johnson had pledged in an e-mail to pay the company “over
time,” saying the new business model “makes the Get Motivated
Seminars more profitable than ever before,” the documents show.
Officials with the bureau, a unit of New York-based  Omnicom
Group Inc. (OMC) , didn’t respond to e-mails and telephone calls.  The celebrity speakers from Oklahoma City declined to be
interviewed. Peggy Cifrino, a spokeswoman for Powell, said, “He
goes in and speaks and leaves. He has nothing to do with any
other speakers.”  Giuliani netted $1.8 million for more than 20 Get Motivated
speeches from January 2006 to February 2007, according to
disclosures he filed while running for president. Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  was paid $29,750 to speak via
satellite in 2010 to a Get Motivated event, his disclosures
show. Andrea Saul, a Romney spokeswoman, didn’t respond to e-
mails or telephone calls.  At Get Motivated in Des Moines -- where former CBS News
anchor Dan Rather and  Robert Gibbs , President  Barack Obama ’s
former press secretary, are on the bill -- one commercial
presenter will be Phil Town, an investment-book author who
represents WealthRock.  After Bloomberg News asked why Town and James Smith,
another WealthRock representative, weren’t advertised, Get
Motivated put them on its website.  “In terms of disclosure, we’re making lots of changes in
the organization,” Johnson said, “and that’s one of them.” 