-- American Eagle Gains After Profit Tops Estimates
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-05-02T20:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/american-eagle-gains-after-profit-tops-estimates.html
American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO)  climbed
the most since 2000 after reporting preliminary first-quarter
profit that topped analysts’ estimates as the apparel chain was
able to sell more merchandise at full price.  The shares rose 17 percent to $20.90 at the close in New
York for the biggest increase since Aug. 3, 2000. The
Pittsburgh-based company’s stock gained 17 percent this year
before today.  First-quarter profit per share rose to 18 cents to 20
cents, from 14 cents a year earlier, the operator of American
Eagle Outfitters, Aerie and 77kids brands said today in a
statement. The average of 27 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was 10 cents a share.  Chief Executive Officer Robert Hanson, who joined American
Eagle in January from Levi Strauss & Co., has been cutting back
inventory, pushing for faster fashion item turnaround and
improving product assortments to boost revenue and margins.
Sales in the quarter were better than expected and benefited
from less promotional activity, American Eagle said.  “The magnitude of the beat indicates to us that the
company’s spring assortment has resonated very well with its
core consumer and we are encouraged by management’s indication
that promotional levels are controlled,” Jeffrey Klinefelter,
an analyst at Minneapolis-based Piper Jaffray & Co., wrote in a
note today. He rates the shares outperform, the equivalent of a
buy.  Teen Spending  Teen spending on apparel is rising at a double-digit rate
this spring for the first time since 2003 to 2004, according to
a Piper Jaffray survey.  With the resignation of former CEO James O’Donnell in
January, that’s given executive creative director Roger Markfield greater freedom on merchandising decisions and the
chance to build a stronger team, said  Richard Jaffe , a New York-
based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., who raised his
recommendation on the stock to a buy from hold today.  Business Differentiation  “The fruits of those labors are becoming evident this
spring,” Jaffe said in a telephone interview. “Hanson is the
new CEO who has not had much impact, positive or negative, but
more importantly, Roger Markfield has been free to do his thing,
to differentiate the business.”  Hanson will offer further room for earnings improvement by
controlling inventory and operationally, advancing the
turnaround story, Jaffe said.  Hanson’s appointment as CEO has been “a significant
positive for this story,” Randal Konik, an analyst at Jefferies
Group Inc. in  New York , said today in a report.  “We like his laser focus on returns and commitment to
moving the company in a clear and stable direction,” said
Konik, who rates the shares buy.  First-quarter sales rose 18 percent to $719 million, the
company said. That is the strongest  first quarter  for the
company in its history, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Same-store sales rose 17 percent.  The company is scheduled  to report  full first-quarter
results on May 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  