-- Annabelle Selldorf Designs Sky Parking, Recycling Center
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-05-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/annabelle-selldorf-designs-sky-parking-recycling-center.html
Drive up to your  Manhattan  apartment.
How cool is that.  Architect Annabelle Selldorf introduced the sky-garage
concept to Manhattan’s Chelsea district, where art and lots of
money mingle so freely.  Born in  Germany , Selldorf studied in New York and never
left, establishing herself as one of the premier architects for
galleries, libraries and airily spartan apartments.  She’s also known for converting a decrepit 1913 mansion
into the Neue Galerie, the splendid Austrian and German arts
showcase on Fifth Avenue that opened in 2001.  Now the elegant Selldorf portfolio has expanded to include
a recycling station in  Brooklyn .  We spoke over lunch at Bloomberg’s world headquarters in
New York.  Hoelterhoff: Let’s talk about 200 Eleventh Avenue. Who came
up with this unusual idea of how to help solve the parking
crisis in  New York  by taking your car up to your apartment in a
separate elevator?  Selldorf: In this case, parking couldn’t easily be
submerged because the footprint is too small for the turning
radius.  And people liked it very much because there is additional
space that can be used for other things if they don’t have a
car.  Where’s the Clutter?  Hoelterhoff: The lawn mower.  Selldorf: There were people who said that the car was
unduly celebrated as a result of it. I thought that that was
sort of nonsensical. It’s 12 cars. And it’s in an area with no
public transportation or taxis.  Hoelterhoff: I’d worry about stepping on the gas
accidentally and ending up in my living room.  Selldorf: A great many safety precautions had to be taken.
The developer was very keen on not only having the latest
technology but also the highest rating for concrete walls and
what have you.  Hoelterhoff: Whenever I see photos of sleek apartments --
like your own -- I wonder about clutter. There is never any
clutter. I wonder what happens when the photographer leaves.  Selldorf: I think when you look at architectural
photography it doesn’t help to have piles of old clothes lying
on the floor. Architectural photography sets up an artifice.  Having said that, however, in the spaces that I design, I
do think about there being a place for things. Our life is full
of colorful objects and things that, whether they are your
glasses, your handbag, your flowers, your books, they all make
up the puzzle of the whole.  Great Views  Hoelterhoff: You seem an unlikely choice to design a
recycling facility in Brooklyn.  Selldorf: I hope we’ll get to do many more because it’s one
of those things you do that sort of make a difference.  A large
part of the site is dedicated to greenery and there’s talk about
putting some goats in the field.  Hoelterhoff: I could lend you my pet goat, Tuffy, who
escaped from a slaughterhouse right around there.  Selldorf: Thank you. It’s a most beautiful site. You can
look toward  New Jersey , see the Statue of Liberty, see Lower
Manhattan and the upper  Gowanus Canal .  The roof has 50,000 square feet of solar panels, which is
probably the largest installation of solar panels in the city.
Together with a wind turbine, they’ll be able to generate about
25 percent of the energy that the facility consumes.  Bombed Cologne  Hoelterhoff: You grew up in Cologne, which was bombed to
bits in World War II. Did all the disappeared buildings inspire
you to want to build?  Selldorf: I thought that Cologne was really not a visually
very exciting place because it had been rebuilt so haphazardly,
but I don’t think that I was able to have a fully formulated
idea about it.  Hoelterhoff: There weren’t many women architects when you
started.  Selldorf: To this day it’s a little bit difficult for women
to establish a practice in what is to some extent still
considered a man’s world, though I think it’s changing rapidly.
Initially, only women worked for me, but now it’s more balanced.  Hoelterhoff: What’s coming up?  Selldorf: A new gallery for  David Zwirner  on West 20th
Street, which will be the first LEED-certified commercial
gallery. We’re also renovating an 18th-century townhouse in the
Mayfair section of  London  as Zwirner’s first London Gallery.  And in  Venice , a museum for glass that will open end of
August to coincide with the architecture biennale.  Hoelterhoff: Looking at your website, that cottage on the
Nova Scotia coast is starkly appealing if somewhat lonely-
looking.  A Room of My Own  Selldorf: It’s basically three little cabins. There’s a
small addition that I added because I wanted to have a place to
sleep if I came to visit these people.  The whole sort of situation of being secluded and off the
grid is really fantastic. No electricity -- it couldn’t be
brought in. And a compostable toilet. Plumbing is overrated
anyway.  For more on Selldorf, go to www.selldorf.com.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. Any opinions are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on Broadway and  Greg
Evans  on film.  To contact the writer of this review:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 Jburke21@bloomberg.net . 