-- ArcelorMittal, Lafarge Use Most UN Carbon Offsets in 2011
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-05-02T16:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/arcelormittal-lafarge-use-most-un-carbon-offsets-in-2011-2-.html
ArcelorMittal (MT)  and  Lafarge SA (LG) , the
world’s biggest steel and cement makers respectively, used the
most United Nations offsets to cover carbon-dioxide emissions
last year, according to  data  on the European Commission website.  Factories and power stations used 254.6 million offsets in
the bloc’s cap-and-trade program, the data show. ArcelorMittal
handed in about 29.3 million credits, enough to cover 78 percent
of its emissions last year, while Lafarge used 11 million, or 64
percent of its pollution. Offsets may be used to cut compliance
costs with Europe’s carbon trading system.  Industrials are using offsets because they are short of
money and less concerned over future compliance costs, according
to Barclays Plc.  “We’d expect industrials to hand in a fair amount of
offsets,”  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst in London for the
investment arm of the bank said by phone. “A lot of them will
be finding access to credit difficult, and current concerns
around  cash flow  would drive them to look for monetization of
value.”  UN-sponsored offsets known as Certified Emission Reductions
and Emission Reduction Units are awarded to projects that cut
greenhouse gases that scientists blame for accelerating  climate
change . UN CERs for December slumped 4.2 percent to 3.70 euros
($4.87) a metric ton at 5:20 p.m. on London’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  Analysts Predictions  Germany , France and  Spain  used the most United Nations
emission offsets. Emitters in Germany surrendered 74.4 million
tons of credits, while those in  France  used 27.5 million tons
and Spanish installations submitted 27.4 million tons to the
European Commission, according to data published today and
compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Each country sets its own limit on companies’ use of
offsets, ranging from zero in  Estonia  to 20 percent in Germany.
Unused quotas can be used in subsequent years.  The use of offsets in 2011 was higher than the median
estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News on April
30. The median prediction was for 244 million credits. The
offsets are a cheaper form of compliance to cover the 1.85
billion metric tons of carbon dioxide emitted in 2011. That
means offsets were used to cover about 14 percent of emissions.  HFC-23 Ban  The EU has banned the use of credits linked to
hydrofluorocarbon-23 from its trading system from next year,
saying these credits generate excessive profits. HFC-23 offsets
make up about 44 percent of total supply and so installations
should make use of them while they are allowed to in the
program,  Mark Lewis , an analyst in Paris for Deutsche Bank AG,
said today by phone.  “It’s becoming obvious to emitters they need to use up
their quota,” Lewis said. “We have these qualitative
restrictions kicking in from 2013.”  The discount of UN credits to European Union permits for
December narrowed 5.1 percent to 3.52 euros a ton on ICE Futures
 Europe . The spread, traded as a separate contract, had widened
over the previous four sessions, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The spread shouldn’t widen any further,” unless there’s
an increase in supply of offsets from Russian projects, he said.
Deutsche Bank forecast credit use will rise to 300 million tons
for this year’s CO2 emissions and companies will bank as many as
600 million eligible units for use in the future, according to
an e-mail.  Barclays predicts 400 million tons of offsets will be used
to cover 2012 emissions, according to an e-mailed note.  “The impact on prices should be minimal,” Sikorski said.
“This was in line with expectations and does not alter the
supply and demand fundamentals in the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  