-- ArcelorMittal May Have Added 96 Million Euro Profit to CO2 Gain
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-05-02T15:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/arcelormittal-may-have-added-96-million-euro-profit-to-co2-gain.html
ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest
steelmaker, may have last year used United Nations emission
credits to add a 95.8-million-euro ($126 million) profit to a
windfall from millions of free European Union carbon permits.  The Luxembourg-based producer received an excess allocation
of 47.3 million metric tons of carbon permits last year, which
were worth 636 million euros at the average 2011 price on
London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  ArcelorMittal handed in 29.4 million tons of UN offsets for
compliance last year, more than double any other company in the
bloc, according to data published today by the European
Commission in Brussels and compiled by Bloomberg. It may have
acquired those credits by swapping some of its free EU
allowances, which were on average 3.26 euros more expensive,
according to an ICE spread contract.  “Swapping would have increased their profits,” said
Konrad Hanschmidt, an analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance
in  London . Many companies have sold more-expensive EU allowances
gained for free for cheaper UN credits. This allows them to
potentially raise cash at less than commercial bank rates, or
lock in profit from trading while maintaining compliance with
the program, the world’s biggest cap-and-trade market by traded
volume, he said.  Under the program’s rules, factories and power stations can
use offset credits for a portion of compliance. EU carbon
permits for December fell 3.7 percent today to 7.29 euros a
metric ton on ICE at 3:52 p.m. UN Certified Emission Reduction
credits dropped 2.3 percent to 3.77 euros.  Giles Read, an ArcelorMittal spokesman in London, declined
to comment ahead of the company’s first-quarter financial
results, which are to be published on May 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  