-- Areva Said to Commence Sale of Nuclear Unit Canberra
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-05-02T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/areva-said-to-commence-sale-of-nuclear-unit-canberra.html
Areva SA (AREVA) , the largest nuclear reactor
maker, has started a process to sell its nuclear radiation
measurement unit Canberra, three people with knowledge of the
plans said.  The state-controlled company based in Paris sent financial
information to potential bidders for the asset, which may fetch
as much as 400 million euros ($526 million), said the people,
who declined to be identified as the talks are private. Canberra
posted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of about 30 million euros, they said.  Areva Chief Executive Officer Luc Oursel, who took over
from  Anne Lauvergeon  in June, plans to sell at least 1.2 billion
euros of non-strategic assets by the end of 2013 to shore up a
 balance sheet  that’s been impaired by the acquisition of uranium
mines in  Africa , losses at a nuclear reactor under construction
in  Finland  and falling demand for nuclear fuel following last
year’s accident at an atomic plant in  Japan .  Bidders for Canberra may include French private equity firm
Astorg Partners SAS, which made a pre-emptive approach last
year; Mirion Technologies, owned by American Capital Ltd.;
buyout firm Montagu Private Equity LLP, based in London; and
Paris-based PAI Partners, the people said.  Representatives of Areva, Montagu, Astorg and PAI declined
to comment. A spokeswoman for Mirion was not immediately
available for comment.  Asset Disposals  Canberra, which makes radiation detectors and monitoring
systems and software, employs more than 1,000 people and has 12
production and engineering facilities in countries such the
U.S., the U.K.,  France  and  Canada , according to its  website . The
sale may be completed by the end of the third quarter, according
to one of the people involved in the process. That would put
Areva on track to reach its goal for asset disposals.  The French company already agreed this year to  sell  a 26
percent stake in Eramet SA to the French government for 776
million euros, and a 28 percent stake in a uranium mine in
Canada to Cameco Corp. for 112 million euros and potential
royalties.  It sold its 20 percent stake in Sofradir, a maker of
infrared detectors, to Thales SA and Safran SA for an
undisclosed sum, and has said it will seek to sell its 63
percent stake in gold-exploration company La Mancha Resources
Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in  London  at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  