-- Target Will Stop Selling Amazon’s Kindle After Two Years
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-05-02T17:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/target-will-stop-selling-amazon-s-kindle-after-two-years.html
Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest U.S.
discount chain, will stop selling  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle brand
of e-readers and tablets after two years, while continuing to
offer similar products from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)   All Kindles and related products will be out of Target
stores by the end of this month, said Molly Snyder, a
spokeswoman for the Minneapolis-based company. Target will still
offer Barnes & Noble’s Nook brand of e-readers and tablets and
Apple’s iPad in its stores and on its website, Snyder said.  Target started selling Kindles in its stores nationwide in
June 2010, touting itself as the first so-called brick-and-
mortar retailer to carry the device. Since then, Amazon has
become a bigger competitor, releasing the Kindle Fire, a tablet
computer that allows users to shop Amazon’s entire site for
goods, such as clothes, that Target also sells.  “The very tight alignment of Kindle Fire tablets with
Amazon’s own online store, which is a Target competitor, likely
justifies this decision,”  Matt Arnold , an analyst for Edward
Jones & Co. in  Des Peres , Missouri, said in an e-mail. The move
also makes sense as Target is installing more areas in its
stores dedicated to Apple products, Arnold said.  Brick-and-Mortar  Drew Herdener, an Amazon spokesman, declined to comment.  Target fell 0.8 percent to $57.55 at 1:34 p.m. in New York.
Amazon rose 0.1 percent to $229.93.  Amazon has been taking market share from brick-and-mortar
retailers in a number of product categories, enabling it to grow
first-quarter sales by 34 percent to $13.2 billion, compared
with a year earlier. Meanwhile, analysts estimate Target will
increase sales by 5.6 percent to $16.8 billion in the quarter
ended April 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Amazon, the world’s biggest online retailer, has drawn
criticism from observers including Republican Senator Olympia
Snowe and the American Booksellers Association over its sales
strategies.  Snowe said in December that Amazon should stop offering
shoppers discounts to scan in products with their smartphones at
retail stores and compare prices to its own site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  