-- Mark-to-Market Accounts Signal Caution for Investors
-- B y   R a y   B a l l
-- 2012-05-02T23:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/mark-to-market-accounts-signal-caution-for-investors.html
Mark-to-market accounting has long
been viewed in academia as the gold standard for preparing
financial statements. The rule makers, the  Financial Accounting
Standards Board  and the  International Accounting Standards 
Board, are coming to the same view. Yet shifting to those norms
has some adverse consequences for investors.  For centuries, assets generally had been recorded on
balance sheets at their actual “historical” costs. Critics
argued that this method provided investors with stale
information that was irrelevant to decision-making (“sunk”
costs). Instead, they advocated marking assets to their
estimated market prices, or “fair values.”  The greatest impact of the transition to mark-to-market
accounting has been on financial assets and liabilities, which
is where the best price information is found.  Banks and financial institutions are particularly affected.
Their trading assets (debt, equity, Treasuries, derivatives and
securitized loans) are on their balance sheets at market value.
Gains and losses are booked in earnings each quarter. Because
these entities are highly levered (typically more than 10-to-1),
the effects on earnings are substantial. As an example,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  had $292 billion in trading accounts as of Dec.
31, 2011, about 3.8 times its total market capitalization and
26.4 times its earnings for the year.  Current Prices  Clearly, mark-to-market accounting has a lot going for it,
and current prices seem preferable to old. But several recent
studies, including  research  that I conducted with  Sudarshan
Jayaraman , of the Olin Business School at  Washington University 
in  St. Louis , and  Lakshmanan Shivakumar , of the  London Business
School , indicate it also has several limitations that investors
need to be aware of:  -- Earnings expectations are more difficult to calculate:
Under the new rules, published financial statements don’t reveal
whether mark-to-market gains and losses are due to shocks to
expected returns (yields) or shocks to expected cash flows, or
both. This is important because yield shocks reverse in earnings
over time, and cash-flow shocks don’t. Consequently, by omitting
causes, mark-to-market accounting doesn’t provide enough
information to form expectations of  future earnings .  Take the example of a debt instrument bought for $100 and
expected to pay a single $121 cash flow in two years, an annual
yield of 10 percent. Imagine if a year after it is purchased,
the bond is marked to its then market price, $105.22. This is
bad news for the investor because the asset was expected to
appreciate by 10 percent, to $110.  There is no way, however, for the investor to know why the
price has dropped and this deprives him of the ability to
accurately predict its future value.  If the bond fell because an increased risk of default
reduced the expected cash flow to $115.74, and the instrument
still is expected to yield 10 percent, then estimated next-
period earnings would be $10.52 (calculated as $115.74 -$105.22,
or as 10 percent of $105.22).  If, on the other hand, the bond fell because market forces
had driven up the yield to 15 percent ($121/$105.22 - 1), then
expected next-period earnings would be $15.78 ($121 - $105.22,
or 15 percent of $105.22).  Interpretation is even messier if yields and  default risk 
changed together. As the example illustrates, mark to market
creates uncertainty about expected future earnings, and
therefore also about the “surprise” content of these earnings
when they are announced. The uncertainty only can be removed by
knowing what caused the change in market price. Larger investors
and insiders are in a better position to acquire that
information. That means smaller “uninformed” investors are at
a disadvantage in forming earnings expectations.  Bid-Ask Spreads  Our research shows that shares of  banks  that invest in
trading securities are quoted at considerably wider bid-ask
spreads than those that don’t. The spreads widen as banks’
trading portfolios increase. Widened spreads indicate that
uninformed investors are attempting to compensate for their
informational disadvantage.  Trading securities also are associated with diminished
tracking by analysts, fewer earnings forecasts by management and
less timely information environments generally.  Traditional accounting theory assumed that up-to-date
prices provide all the information about company assets that
investors need. That turns out to be incorrect. In the real
world, earnings expectations play an important role, and forming
them requires information about why mark-to-market prices
changed.  -- Manipulated numbers: Under historical cost accounting,
gains and losses would be booked only when assets were sold.
This would allow companies to “manage” earnings by choosing
what to sell, and when. Winners can be sold to book gains when
earnings are short of consensus expectations, and losers can be
unloaded in good years.  Mark to market books gains and losses as they occur,
eliminating that timing discretion. But don’t be fooled:
Companies can still manipulate the numbers. Because markets
aren’t perfectly liquid, companies can make trades at the end of
the quarter that influence mark-to-market prices. (Such window
dressing is believed to be a reason for high quarter-end trading
volumes.) Securities that aren’t actively traded attract “mark-
to-model” accounting, which bases the reporting on subjective
judgment and is subject to even greater abuse. In this case,
too, uninformed investors who take reported numbers at face
value are at a disadvantage.  -- Marking liabilities to market: FASB’s  Statement 159 
allows companies to record their liabilities at market price.
Paradoxically, increased default risk reduces the value of debt
and then triggers book gains. When Citigroup was bleeding during
the first quarter of 2008, it booked a $12.65 billion pretax
gain from deterioration in its  credit quality . The gain was
buried in the footnotes, and many shareholders wouldn’t have
been aware of it. Even if they had, many would have found it
difficult to interpret.  There are traps for investors in debt, too. Borrowers
commonly agree to restrict risk by maintaining specified maximum
leverage ratios, such as debt/assets or debt/Ebitda. When these
covenants are violated, lenders obtain rights such as veto power
over dividends, stock repurchases, new investment, mergers and
acquisitions or more borrowing. The loan might become due
immediately. Renegotiation frequently ensues. But if debt is
written down on the balance sheet when asset quality
deteriorates, the covenanted leverage ratio is rendered
ineffective -- even if the assets are written down, too.  FASB introduced this rule in 2007, so researchers cannot
untangle its effects from the financial crisis. Preliminary
research shows a precipitous drop in the use of balance-sheet
leverage covenants in  Europe  after the European Union adopted
similar rules in 2005. No wonder: Balance sheets can no longer
be relied on to record the actual amount that companies owe.  FASB is correct that mark-to-market accounting puts more
up-to-date information in financial statements, but the theory
on which that belief is founded places too little emphasis on
what investors actually use the information for. Until standard
setters change that mindset, investors need to exercise caution.  (Ray Ball, a professor of accounting at the University of
Chicago Booth School of Business, is a contributor to  Business
Class . He is also a trustee of Harbor Funds and chairs its  audit
committee . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on what’s missing from the
 U.S.-Afghanistan pact  and better ways to  fix the farm bill ;  Ezra
Klein  on how  the U.S. isn’t like Greece ;  Amity Shlaes  on why  we
should all back the gold standard ;  Caroline Baum  on the lack of
 alternatives to austerity ; Josh Barro on  new arguments for a U.S.
value-added tax .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ray Ball at  ray.ball@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net  