-- Hartford Profit Falls 81% on Hedging Losses as Yen Weakens
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-05-02T21:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/hartford-financial-profit-falls-on-losses-from-currency-hedges.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG) , the seller of life insurance and property-casualty
coverage, said profit fell 81 percent on realized losses tied to
hedges against a stronger yen and stock market drops.  First-quarter  net income  dropped to $96 million, or 18
cents a share, from $501 million, or 99 cents, according to a
statement today from Hartford, which is based in the Connecticut
city of the same name. Operating earnings, which exclude some
investment results, were $1.25 per share, beating by 34 cents
the average estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Liam McGee hedges against a
stronger yen and declines in stock markets to guard against
losses on contracts with Japanese clients in which the insurer
guarantees minimum returns on equity-linked investments. The yen
weakened 7.2 percent against the dollar in the first quarter and
 Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Index (NKY)  jumped 19 percent.  “Losses increased in the first quarter of 2012 due
primarily to depreciation of the yen in relation to the euro and
 U.S. dollar  and an improvement in global and domestic equity
markets,” Hartford said in the statement.  The net realized loss of runoff operations, which include
the Japanese annuity market where Hartford no longer sells new
policies, widened to $587 million from $170 million.  Policy Sales  Policy sales climbed 3 percent in the commercial property-
casualty coverage business to $1.69 billion, while they declined
3 percent to $861 million in the consumer markets segment, which
provides auto and homeowners coverage to individuals.  Hartford’s book value, a measure of  assets  minus
liabilities, fell to $43.25 a share from $44.31 as of Dec. 31,
the company said in a regulatory filing.  McGee is shrinking the firm as he fends off calls from
billionaire hedge-fund manager  John Paulson , his biggest
investor, to break the company in two after a 39 percent stock
plunge in 2011. McGee is seeking buyers for life insurance and
retirement plan units and Woodbury Financial Services. Hartford
agreed to sell its individual annuities distribution business to
Forethought Financial Group Inc., the insurer said April 26.  “There’s been significant pressure from the folks at
Paulson to try and come up with something that will allow for a
more rapid benefit to shareholders,”  Meyer Shields , an analyst
at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said by phone before the results were
announced. Hartford’s vision for the restructuring is “pretty
clear and pretty final. It’s just a matter of executing on it.”  Share Rebound  Hartford  gained  26 percent this year to $20.43 at 4:01 p.m.
in  New York , after slumping 39 percent in 2011. Hartford has had
the second-biggest advance in the 24-company KBW Insurance Index
this year. Results were released after the close of regular
trading. The shares slipped to $20.35 as of 4:53 p.m. in trading
after regular hours.  Hartford needs to reach about $24.70 to recoup Paulson’s
investment, filings to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and data compiled by Bloomberg in February show.  Paulson’s fund  controls  about 8.5 percent of Hartford,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He said in February
that the company should be split to free Hartford’s property-
casualty business from  life insurance  and the risks associated
with annuity liabilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  