-- Harvard Forms Venture With MIT to Offer Online Courses
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y   a n d   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-05-02T17:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/harvard-forms-60-million-venture-with-mit-for-online-courses.html
Harvard University  will team with the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  to offer online courses
from their faculties to students around the world that will
include quizzes and certificates upon completion.  The nonprofit venture, called EdX, will be funded with $30
million from each of the universities and will begin offering
courses this year, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based schools
said today in a statement.  “This is really mission-driven and something that cuts
across all the aspects of research and teaching that are
critical to what we understand ourselves to be,” Harvard
President Drew Faust said in an interview.  Expanding and studying online education has become an
important part of the teaching and research functions of
nonprofit universities, Faust said. MIT, which has put course
material online for a decade, in February introduced MITx, an
online program of courses with homework, exams and discussion
forums. The new venture will be based on MITx’s technology
platform. Other universities may join them in offering courses,
Harvard and MIT said.  “The not-for-profit piece is critical,” MIT President
Susan Hockfield said in an interview. “We want to keep
education in the public domain.”  Fees Undecided  EdX will be run by Anant Agarwal, director of MIT’s
Computer Science and  Artificial Intelligence Laboratory , who led
the development of MITx. How and whether the program will charge
students remains under study, Agarwal said. For example, he
said, the school may charge for certificates issued for those
who have successfully completed courses.  “We do intend to find a way to at least support those
activities,” MIT Provost Rafael Reif said in a press
conference. “Clearly, we want to make sure that this does not
become a drain on the budgets of Harvard and MIT.”  The courses will feature video segments, embedded quizzes,
immediate feedback and online laboratories, the schools said.
These tools can help improve both online and campus-based
classes, said Piotr Mitros, an MIT researcher who helped develop
a prototype online electrical engineering course for the
project.  “There are all kinds of different rates of learning among
students,” he said in an interview. “With an online lecture,
you can hit the pause button, you can run the tape back and
watch again.”  Education researchers can study students’ interactions with
online platforms to understand how students are learning, which
explanations work well, and for whom, Agarwal said. It won’t be
used as a substitute for classroom learning.  “The campus environment offers opportunities and
experiences that cannot be replicated online,” Hockfield said
in the statement. “EdX is designed to improve, not replace the
campus experience.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Staley in  London  at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net ;
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  