-- Asian Development Bank Expects to Resume Myanmar Operations Soon
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-05-02T11:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/asian-development-bank-expects-to-resume-myanmar-operations-soon.html
The Asian Development Bank expects to
resume its operations in Myanmar “sooner rather than later,”
the bank’s Managing Director-General Rajat Nag said.  Returning to the Southeast Asian country is “very likely
and very desirable,” Nag said in an interview with Bloomberg
News in Manila today. Myanmar’s $490 million in arrears to the
Manila-based bank is “not an insurmountable issue,” he said.  Democracy advocate Aung San Suu Kyi became a
parliamentarian for the first time today in a further sign of
political opening in Myanmar that may put it back on the map for
investors. The U.S. has said it would ease some economic and
financial restrictions on the former military dictatorship that
floated the nation’s currency last month.  “I don’t see any reason why not” to trust the government,
Nag said. “They have made fairly far-reaching fundamental
reforms leading to the international community being comfortable
enough with them to lift sanctions.”  Since taking office in March 2011 in the country of 64
million people, President Thein Sein has freed political
prisoners, sought peace deals with ethnic armies and halted the
construction of a $3.6 billion Chinese-backed hydropower project
in response to criticism China was exploiting Myanmar’s
resources.  He also met with Suu Kyi and convinced her party to rejoin
the political process after boycotting elections in 2010.  “The country having been closed for so long has huge needs
in almost every sector,” Nag said. “It has many distortions,
one of which was the currency, which has now been addressed,
which is a very positive step.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  