-- Stocks, Euro Fall on Employment Concern; Treasuries Rise
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-02T20:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/asian-stocks-advance-after-u-s-china-manufacturing-yen-falls.html
Stocks fell, the euro weakened for a
third day against the dollar and Germany’s five-year note yield
fell to a record amid concern about employment markets in Europe
and the U.S. Wheat led commodities lower.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.3 percent to close
at 1,402.31 at 4 p.m. in New York, paring an earlier loss of 0.9
percent as homebuilders and retailers rallied. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU)  retreated from a four-year high. The euro
depreciated 0.6 percent to $1.3160 as the U.S. currency
strengthened against most major peers. German five-year note
yields sank as low as 0.55 percent and 10-year Treasury rates
decreased less than two basis points to 1.93 percent, near a
three-month low. Oil fell after a surge in inventories.  German unemployment rose in April as euro-area
manufacturing shrank for a ninth month and more than initially
estimated, according to reports today. American companies added
119,000 workers in April, according to figures from ADP Employer
Services, 51,000 fewer than the median economist forecast and
damping optimism about the economy before government jobs data
in two days. U.S. factory orders decreased.  “I’ve got a feeling that we might see a downside surprise
on the monthly jobs report,”  Randy Frederick , managing director
of active trading and derivatives at Charles Schwab Corp., said
in an interview from Austin, Texas. His firm has $1.83 trillion
in client assets. “We’ve got a weak ADP report. There’s a
reemergence of concerns in  Europe . Given how high the market is
right now and this softening in economic data, it’s very likely
to see a pullback in the range of 5 percent to 10 percent.”  Economic Data  The ADP data was forecast to show U.S. companies added
170,000 workers in April, according to economists’ forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg. The Labor Department’s payrolls report
for April will be released on May 4 and is forecast to show that
employers added 160,000 jobs. A Commerce Department report today
showed U.S. factory orders decreased 1.5 percent in March,
compared with the median economist estimate for a 1.6 percent
decline.  Energy and financial shares fell the most among the  10 main
S&P 500 groups  as ConocoPhillips tumbled 3.4 percent and Bank of
America Corp. fell 1.8 percent to pace losses. Chesapeake Energy
Corp. tumbled 15 percent after reporting an unexpected loss and
saying it may run out of money next year under the weight of the
lowest natural-gas prices in a decade.  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  rose
2.7 percent as profit at the provider of  prescription drugs  beat
projections.  Builders Rally  Lennar Corp. and D.R. Horton Inc. rose more than 2.6
percent to help lead a gauge of homebuilders in S&P indexes to
the  highest level  since September 2008. An International
Strategy & Investment Group Inc. survey released yesterday
showed sales by homebuilders climbed to a six-year high. The Los
Angeles Times reported that the Federal Housing Finance Agency
is under pressure to allow  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  to reduce
loan principal amounts for struggling borrowers.  TripAdvisor Inc. surged 17 percent, the  most  in the  S&P
500 , after the online travel-recommendation service spun off
from Expedia Inc. reported sales and profit that topped some
analysts’ estimates. Earnings per share have exceeded the
average analyst estimate at about three quarters of the
companies in the index that posted results since April 10,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Almost  two stocks  declined for each that gained in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, which slipped 0.4 percent.  Vestas Wind
Systems A/S (VWS)  sank 5.6 percent to the lowest level since 2003. The
biggest wind turbine maker said its  loss widened  91 percent in
the first quarter and it expects to spend more money on turbine
maintenance after uncovering potential faults in 376 machines.  UBS Gains  UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, climbed 3.7 percent
after reporting it attracted more funds from wealthy clients
than analysts anticipated and earnings beat estimates.  The 17-nation euro fell against 14 of 16 major peers. The
dollar strengthened 0.1 percent versus the yen as it climbed
against all 16 major peers except South Korea’s won and South
Africa’s rand.  The 10-year Italian yield rose to 5.55 percent from 5.51
percent on April 30 after the country’s  unemployment rate 
climbed more than economists forecast in March to the highest
level since 2000, adding to signs an economic slump in the euro
region is getting worse.  The German 10-year bund yields fell six basis points to
1.61 percent. The number of people out of work increased a
seasonally adjusted 19,000 to 2.87 million, the Nuremberg-based
Federal Labor Agency said today. Euro-region unemployment rose
to a  15-year high  of 10.9 percent in March from 10.8 percent in
February, the EU statistics office said.  ‘Weak Numbers’  “These weak numbers reflect the deterioration we’ve been
seeing in the euro zone, and what’s worrying is that this is not
limited to troubled countries,” said  Ian Stannard , head of
European currency strategy at Morgan Stanley in  London . “We
expect the euro to come under significant pressure on the back
of these reports.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 0.4 percent,
poised for the highest close since April 6. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  jumped 1.8 percent and Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE) 
gained 2.3 percent. The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  slipped 1.8
percent in Istanbul after S&P cut its outlook for Turkey’s long-
term foreign and local currency debt ratings to stable from
positive yesterday.  All 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index declined
except for cocoa, sending the gauge down 1.3 percent.  Oil, Wheat Slip  Crude oil futures lost 0.9 percent to $105.22 a barrel,
after the U.S. Energy Department said stockpiles rose by 2.84
million barrels to 375.9 million, the highest level in 21 years.  Wheat fell more than 4 percent and corn dropped 3 percent
as wet weather boosted prospects for emerging plants.  Gold futures dropped 0.5 percent to $1,654 an ounce after
three voting members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  said
they don’t see a need for more economic stimulus and as physical
demand slumped in India, the world’s biggest importer.  John Williams , president of the San Francisco Fed, joined
his counterparts from Richmond, Philadelphia and Atlanta in
casting doubt on the need for additional purchases of bonds to
push down longer-term  interest rates  even as American employers
added fewer jobs than forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  