-- MasterCard Posts Higher Income as Market Share Increases
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-05-02T15:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/mastercard-posts-higher-income-as-market-share-increases.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s second-
biggest payments network, posted a 21 percent increase in first-
quarter profit as card spending rose and the firm took a bigger
share of the market.  Net income advanced to $682 million, or $5.36 a share, from
$562 million, or $4.29, in the same period a year earlier, the
Purchase, New York-based company said today in a statement.
While results beat most Wall Street estimates, reports on
employment and jobless rates in the U.S. and  Europe  weighed on
financial markets, and MasterCard shares slid 1.9 percent.  Chief Executive Officer  Ajay Banga  is boosting profit as
consumers worldwide shift from cash and checks to electronic
payments. MasterCard said net revenue increased 17 percent to
$1.8 billion, aided by a 29 percent gain in processed
transactions, the fastest growth since the company’s 2006
initial public offering.  While there’s “no shortage of growth opportunities in this
business,” Banga said revenue will rise more slowly during the
rest of the year, and he acknowledged renewed concern about
consumer confidence in the  euro zone . “We’re watching our
European business very closely,” Banga, 52, told analysts
during a conference call.  Market Share  U.S. limits on debit-card transaction fees and processing
that took effect on Oct. 1 may have helped MasterCard wrest
market share from San Francisco-based  Visa Inc. (V) , which handled
more than triple the amount of such purchases than its smaller
rival in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30. MasterCard has won
deals to handle processing of PIN-debit transactions “with a
couple of major U.S. banks,” Banga said Feb. 2.  One of those lenders is  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America Corp., the biggest U.S. debit-card issuer by
purchases, Tien-tsin Huang, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst, said
yesterday in a research note. MasterCard also has sought to win
business from smaller lenders that are exempt from the debit
rules, including community banks and  credit unions .  “While the top 25 banks in the U.S. do get spoken of most
often, we all know that independent banks and credit unions are
important,” Banga said in February. “We signed debit and
credit deals with almost 150 of these issuers. And importantly,
a good proportion of these deals were conversions from
competition.”  Visa’s share of worldwide purchase transactions on both
credit and debit cards, including those processed by Visa Europe
Ltd., fell 1.1 percentage points last year to 64.67 percent as
MasterCard’s share grew by almost half of a percentage point to
25.57 percent, according to the Nilson Report, an industry
newsletter based in Carpinteria,  California .  Stock Price  MasterCard shares dropped $8.67 to $447.23 at 11:06 a.m. in
 New York . The stock gained 22 percent  this year  through
yesterday, compared with Visa’s 19 percent advance. The firm
doubled the quarterly  dividend  to 30 cents in February after the
stock surged 66 percent last year, the fourth-best performance
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Financial firms with consumer businesses slid after reports
released today showed U.S. companies added the fewest number of
workers in seven months in April, and that euro-region
unemployment rose to a 15-year high and manufacturing contracted
for a ninth month.  “These are some pretty tough times over in Europe,” Chief
Financial Officer Martina Hund-Mejean said today in a telephone
interview. “I watch consumer confidence like a hawk because I
know if  consumer confidence  goes, two or three quarters down the
road, we will feel it in our numbers.”  MasterCard has repurchased about $300 million of its stock,
at an average price of $387 per share, so far this year, and
still has $550 million of potential repurchases authorized
before considering another program, Hund-Mejean said.  Visa, which reports fiscal second-quarter results after
U.S. markets close today, dropped 1.5 percent to $121.26.  Wells
Fargo & Co . fell 1.7 percent and JPMorgan Chase & Co. declined
1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  