-- Latvia’s Credit Rating Raised to Investment Grade by S&P
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2012-05-02T12:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/latvia-credit-rating-raised-to-investment-grade-by-s-p-on-budget.html
Latvia ’s credit rating was raised to
investment grade by  Standard & Poor’s  for the first time since
2009 because of the Baltic nation’s efforts to narrow its  budget
deficit .  S&P increased its assessment one step to BBB-, the lowest
investment grade, from BB+, assigning a stable outlook. That’s
on a par with Azerbaijan and Croatia. S&P joined  Fitch Ratings 
and Moody’s Investors Service in rating the country’s debt
investment grade.  “The rating on Latvia balances our view of the
government’s proven political commitment to fiscal discipline
and the economy’s considerable flexibility,” S&P analysts Ivan
Morozov and Eileen Zhang said today in an e-mailed statement
from  London . Latvia “cut the general government deficit to 3.5%
of gross domestic product in 2011 from 9.8% in 2009.”  Latvia’s  economy  expanded 5.5 percent last year, buoyed by
export and industrial growth, after shrinking almost a quarter
in 2008-2009. The Baltic nation ended a 7.5 billion-euro ($9.9
billion) bailout in 2011 from a group led by the  International
Monetary Fund  and European Union, after passing tax increases
and spending cuts of almost 18 percent of GDP since end-2008.  ‘Unique Situation’  The yield on Latvia’s dollar bond due 2021 fell 5 basis
points to 5.17 percent after the announcement. The cost of
insuring government debt against non-payment for five years
using credit-default swaps fell to 249 basis points from 257,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Latvia is in a truly unique situation,” Finance Minister
Andris Vilks said in an e-mailed statement. “At a time when
economic activity in the European Union is decreasing and the
ratings of the majority of  member states  are being reduced, the
rating on our country is increased.”  The upgrade “is long overdue,” according to Martins Kazaks, chief economist at Swedbank AB’s Latvian unit in the
capital, Riga.  “Unless something very bad happens in Europe, we should
expect further improvements in ratings,” he said by phone.  The  Finance Ministry  predicts the economy will grow about 2
percent this year, while the budget gap will narrow to 2.5
percent of GDP, within the 3 percent limit needed to adopt the
euro, which is planned in 2014.  S&P forecasts Latvia will succeed in trimming this year’s
fiscal deficit to less than 3 percent. The Baltic nation’s
credit grade may be further enhanced should private-sector
foreign debt continue to fall and inflation remain consistent
with adopting the euro, it said.  Countries seeking to adopt the euro must keep inflation at
less than 1.5 percentage points above the average of the three
lowest levels in the EU. Latvia’s 12-month  consumer-price index 
was 4.1 percent in March, according to Eurostat. The threshold
for the currency changeover was 3.1 percent.  “We do not assume that euro-zone entry would necessarily
occur within the two-year outlook horizon,” S&P said.
“Inflationary risks are significant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  