-- Australian Stock Futures Are Little on Europe, U.S. Jobs
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-05-02T23:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/australian-stock-futures-are-little-on-europe-u-s-jobs.html
Australian stock futures were little
changed as unemployment in the euro-region rose to a 15-year
high and a survey showed U.S. companies added fewer jobs than
economists estimated, fueling concern the global economy is
slowing.  American depositary receipts of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company, rose 0.2 percent from the
closing share price in Sydney. Those of Samsung Electronics
Ltd., the world’s biggest maker of mobile phones that gets 39
percent of its sales in Europe and America, fell 0.4 percent.
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  may be active after Australia’s second-
biggest lender said first-half profit rose as growth in lending
outpaced an increase in expenses.  Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced less than
0.1 percent to 4,432 at 8:48 a.m. in Sydney. New Zealand’s NZX
50 Index slid 0.1 percent in Wellington. Japanese equity markets
are closed today and tomorrow for public holidays.  “The latest data suggest the euro area is slowly sliding
towards a deeper recession,”  James Nixon , a London-based
economist at Societe Generale SA, wrote in a report. “The most
worrying aspect of the slide into recession is the renewed
increase in unemployment.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The index slid 0.3 percent in  New York  yesterday.  American companies added 119,000 workers in April, the
fewest in seven months, according to data from a private survey.
The report intensified concern that Labor Department data
tomorrow may show the U.S. isn’t growing fast enough to reduce
unemployment.  Europe Jobs, Manufacturing  The jobless rate in the euro area rose to 10.9 percent in
March, manufacturing contracted last month and unemployment in
 Germany  unexpectedly increased, reports showed.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index (MXAP)  rose 13 percent
this year through yesterday, compared with a 11.5 percent gain
by the  S&P 500  and a 5.3 percent advance by the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 12 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with a multiple of 13.3
for the S&P 500 and 10.7 times for the Stoxx 600.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. rose 0.2 percent to 104.86 in New
York.  Renren Inc. (RENN) , a Chinese social networking website, jumped
for a second day as Facebook Inc. plans to begin marketing its
initial public offering, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum declined 1.6
percent yesterday. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of
raw materials lost 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  