-- Mayfield Said to Be Seeking Smaller Fund Than Raised in 2008
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-05-02T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/mayfield-said-to-be-seeking-smaller-fund-than-raised-in-2008.html
Mayfield Fund, the venture capital
firm founded in 1969, is seeking a smaller pool of capital for
its next fund than the $400 million it raised in 2008, according
to three people familiar with the plan.  Mayfield XIV aims to raise $300 million with a maximum of
$360 million, said the people who declined to be named because
the fundraising is private. The Menlo Park, California-based
firm has a total of  $2.7 billion  under management.  Unlike a number of its Silicon Valley peers, Mayfield
missed out on bets in social media companies whose returns have
bolstered venture fundraising. Institutional Venture Partners,
which backed  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , is planning to raise $750 million to
$1 billion for its next fund. Elevation Partners LP, an investor
in social media websites  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Yelp Inc. (YELP) , is seeking
$1 billion. The two firms also are based in Menlo Park.  Kamini Ramani, a spokeswoman for Mayfield, declined to
comment.  Mayfield makes early-stage investments in mobile, cloud-
based business software, social media, energy and big data. As
it solicits capital, Mayfield Fund can point to the pending
initial public offering of SolarCity Corp. the developer of
rooftop solar power systems whose chairman is Elon Musk. The
company said in a statement April 30 that it’s planning an IPO.  Mayfield profited from its investment in data-storage
supplier 3Par Inc. when it was sold to  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in
September 2010. The firm, along with Menlo Ventures and
Worldview Technology Partners, earned $560 million.  Expanding Team  The firm also has expanded its investment team last year by
adding Tim Chang as a managing director from Norwest Venture
Partners to focus on mobile, gaming, digital media and
enterprise applications. It appointed two venture advisers and
promoted two investment professionals at that time.  Mayfield was stung by bets made in Internet shares as the
dot-com bubble burst in 2000. As a result, it raised $375
million in 2005, a steep drop from the close to $1 billion it
raised in just three days in 2000.  Investors including  Harvard University , the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  and  Stanford University  decided against
backing the firm’s 2005 fund due to concern over the losses.  Mayfield was co-founded in 1969 by Tommy Davis, a Harvard
Law School graduate who worked for U.S. intelligence in Burma
during World War II. It also manages a $111 million fund focused
on early-stage investments in India-based companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  