-- Babe Ruth Cap Being Auctioned by Wells to Fix High School Field
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-03T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/babe-ruth-s-cap-is-being-auctioned-to-renovate-high-school-field.html
Former  New York  Yankees pitcher  David Wells  is selling a cap worn by Babe Ruth to help pay for
baseball field renovations at his San Diego high school.  Wells said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Bottom Line” with Mark Crumpton that he will use
money from the sale to restore the field at his alma mater,
 Point Loma High School .  The navy blue flannel cap, with Ruth’s name embroidered
into it, is worth an estimated $400,000, according to  SCP
Auctions , which is handling the sale.  “I don’t want to put it in storage, I definitely don’t
want to give it to the Hall of Fame or anything like that,
because obviously you won’t get it back,” Wells said. “I want
someone else to enjoy it.”  Wells, 48, who wore the hat during the TV interview, said
he grew up idolizing Ruth, who hit 714 home runs and won seven
World Series titles -- three with the  Boston Red Sox  and four
with the Yankees. Wells said he purchased the cap for $35,000
and was offered “a couple hundred grand” before putting it up
for sale.  Eight bids have been placed since the auction began on
April 30, and the current price is $189,000, according to the
SCP  website . The auction closes on May 19.  Wells wore the hat for the first inning of a start at
Yankee Stadium against the  Cleveland Indians  on June 28, 1997.
Wells said Yankees manager  Joe Torre  made him change the cap
after the first inning and fined him $2,500 because it did not
conform to the team’s uniform code.  Torre Wasn’t Thrilled  “I warmed up with my other hat, and after I got done
warming up I went up to my locker, grabbed it and stayed in the
tunnel,” Wells said. “As I got on the mound I kind of peeked
in and you could tell Joe wasn’t too thrilled, but I didn’t
care, I’m wearing the hat.”  Ruth ranks third on the career home run list behind  Barry Bonds  and  Hank Aaron  after a 22-year career with the Red Sox,
Yankees and Boston Braves. An outfielder and pitcher, Ruth led
the  American League  in home runs 12 times and his 2,213 runs
batted in are second only to Aaron.  The Ruth cap is identifiable to a period from 1930-33,
according to SCP Auctions. It features the Yankees’ interlocking
“NY” logo, as well as “G. Ruth” embroidered on the interior
leather band. Worn in an era before batting helmets, it is
believed that Ruth -- whose full name was George Herman Ruth --
wore the cap both in the field and at the plate.  Wells, who has a  Babe Ruth  tattoo, graduated from Point
Loma in 1982. He said he hoped his donation would help maintain
the public school’s passion for baseball.  “I want Point Loma High School to have a nice field,”
Wells said. “I want them to have people interested, the
community, and not players going to private school.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  