-- Bard Faces First Federal Trial Over Vaginal Mesh Next Year
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-05-02T21:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/bard-faces-first-federal-trial-over-vaginal-mesh-next-year-1-.html
C.R. Bard Inc. will face its first
federal-court trial next year over claims that the company’s
vaginal-mesh implants injured women.  U.S. District Judge Joseph R. Goodwin in Charleston,  West
Virginia , set a Feb. 5 trial date for the first of about 600
federal cases contending that Bard’s  Avaulta  device caused organ
damage. Goodwin is overseeing a consolidation of cases filed in
federal courts across the U.S. against Bard, Johnson & Johnson
and other makers of vaginal-mesh inserts.  The order of trials for the first federal cases over
Avaulta “will be determined after completion” of pretrial
information exchanges between Bard and the plaintiffs, Goodwin
said in his order yesterday.  Bard, based in  Murray Hill , New Jersey, and a unit of  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J also face litigation in U.S.
state courts over their mesh products. More than 75,000 women a
year have the devices inserted vaginally to treat pelvic organs
that bulge, or prolapse, or to deal with incontinence.  Scott Lowry, a Bard spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
call for comment on the judge’s decision to set the trial date.  A U.S. Food and Drug Administration report in August 2011
found that vaginal-mesh products should be classified as posing
a high risk to patients based on a review of side-effect reports
submitted to regulators from January 2008 to December 2010.
Women’s groups are demanding that the devices be recalled.  More Study  In January, the FDA ordered 31 manufacturers, including
Bard and  J&J (JNJ) , to study rates of organ damage and complications
linked to the vaginal-mesh implants. The companies must conduct
three years of studies on the devices’ safety and effectiveness,
regulators said. Some women contend the devices eroded and
shrank over time, causing pain and injuries.  Some mesh suits blaming Bard and J&J for injuries are
pending in state court in  Atlantic City , New Jersey. Superior
Court Judge Carol Higbee is coordinating discovery in those
cases. Higbee has set a Nov. 5 trial for the first case against
J&J’s Ethicon unit over claims that its  Gynecare Prolift 
vaginal-mesh insert harmed women.  In February, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
consolidated federal suits against pelvic mesh makers before
Goodwin. The judge is overseeing evidence-gathering efforts in
cases against Bard, J&J,  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  and the
American Medical Systems unit of Endo Pharmaceutical Holdings
Inc.  Endo’s AMS unit also faces claims in state courts in
Delaware and  Minnesota  over its Perigee, Apogee and Elevate
surgical mesh products, according to court filings.  ‘Day In Court’  Goodwin has appointed  Bryan Aylstock ,  Fred Thompson III  and
 Henry G. Garrard III  to lead a group of plaintiffs’ lawyers who
will oversee the progress pretrial information exchanges over
the consolidated federal cases.  Aylstock, a Pensacola, Florida-based lawyer, said he was
pleased Goodwin set the first trial over Bard’s mesh product for
early next year.  “We have a lot of women who have suffered devastating
consequences from the Avaulta product and they deserve their day
in court,” the plaintiffs’ lawyer said in a telephone
interview.  The Bard consolidated cases are In re C.R. Bard Inc. Pelvic
Repair System Products Liability Litigation, 2:10-MD-02187, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of West Virginia (Charleston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  