-- Belgian GDP Contracts at Slower Pace Than First Estimated
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2012-05-02T13:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/belgian-gdp-contracts-at-slower-pace-than-first-estimated.html
Belgium ’s economy resumed expansion in
the first quarter even as the government cuts spending to rein
in the  budget deficit .  Gross domestic product in Belgium, the sixth-largest
economy in the euro area, grew 0.3 percent from the fourth
quarter, when it declined 0.1 percent, the  National Bank of
Belgium  in Brussels said today in a statement. The economy
expanded 0.5 percent from the year-earlier period after growth
of 1.2 percent in the last quarter of 2011.  The nation’s economy may struggle to gather momentum as
Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo’s administration seeks 2 billion
euros ($2.6 billion) in additional spending cuts or tax
increases to meet its target for a deficit of 2.8 percent of GDP
in 2012. The central bank forecasts the economy will contract
0.1 percent this year.  “This number has to be considered as good news for the
 euro zone , as it demonstrate that core countries are still able
to benefit from positive growth even during the age of
austerity,” said Philippe Ledent, an economist at ING Groep NV
in Brussels. Still “negative growth during the second quarter
cannot be fully excluded.”  Unemployment across the euro region rose to a 15-year high
in March and the manufacturing industry contracted for a ninth
straight month in April, data showed today. Belgian business
confidence dropped unexpectedly last month, led by deteriorating
sentiment in manufacturing and services, the central bank said
on April 24.  ‘Highly Uncertain’  Mobistar SA (MOBB) , Belgium’s second-biggest mobile-phone company,
last week reported a 28 percent drop in first-quarter earnings
and said full-year profit will decline more than most analysts
estimated. Picanol NV, a Belgian maker of weaving machines, last
month forecast a drop in first-half revenue and said the outlook
for the second half “remains highly uncertain.”  The central bank revised its GDP figure for the third
quarter to show no growth, compared with a 0.1 percent
contraction reported earlier. For all of last year, the bank
said Belgium’s economy expanded 2 percent, compared with the 1.9
percent growth estimated earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  