-- Bharti Airtel Shares Rise on India Mobile-Phone Usage
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-05-02T11:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/bharti-airtel-net-misses-estimates-as-competition-cuts-revenue.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  India ’s largest
mobile-phone operator, climbed the most in five weeks in Mumbai
trading after increasing revenue from voice calls in the world’s
second-biggest wireless market.  Bharti’s average revenue per user, a key metric of
performance in the telecommunications industry, rose to 189
rupees ($3.60) a month from 187 rupees in the previous quarter,
the New Delhi-based company said in a statement today.  Subscribers spent an average 431 minutes each month on the
phone during the quarter, 2.9 percent more than a quarter
earlier after the  company  offered incentives, said Bharti,
controlled by billionaire Chairman  Sunil Mittal . To revive
profit that has now declined for two consecutive years, Bharti
raised tariffs in July after competition with  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and
 NTT Docomo Inc. (9437)  had cut call charges to a penny a minute in the
Asian nation.  “Minutes of use was good this time, better than
expectations,” said Abhishek Anand, an analyst at Centrum
Broking Pvt. in Mumbai who rates the stock buy. “This is
positive considering that they were slipping down on market
share. They had promotional schemes in the last few quarters
that improved usage and subscriber addition.”  Bharti rose 2.4 percent to 317.95 rupees at the close in
Mumbai trading, the largest increase since March 27. The stock
was the second-biggest gainer in the benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) 
today, which declined 0.1 percent.  Missing Estimates  Bharti also reported fourth-quarter profit and sales that
lagged behind analysts’ estimates.  Net income  fell to 10.1 billion rupees from 14 billion
rupees a year earlier, the company said. That missed the 12
billion-rupee median of 38 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue rose 15 percent to 187.3 billion rupees in
the three months ended March 31, compared with the 189.6
billion-rupee median of analysts’ estimates.  Bharti started third-generation wireless services last year
in a bid to draw subscribers with features such as streaming
video and music downloads.  The company  spent 156 billion rupees
at auctions of next-generation spectrum to introduce faster
wireless services and started amortizing the spectrum costs and
interest on borrowings to make that payment last year.  The mobile-phone carrier is also expanding into countries
including  Kenya  with its purchase of the African assets of
 Kuwait ’s  Mobile Telecommunications Co. (ZAIN) , to offset slowing growth
at home.  Customer Base  “The year has ended with the company’s customer base
crossing 250 million across twenty countries,” Mittal said in
the statement.  Expenses from the amortization of 3G license fees rose to
1.06 billion rupees, and the company had currency fluctuation
losses of 1.32 billion rupees, Bharti said in the statement.  “They are expanding their capital expenditure to add
capacity, and they’re experiencing higher finance costs because
of the fluctuation of the rupee and higher interest expenses,”
said Ganesh Ram, an analyst at Kim Eng Securities Pvt. in
Mumbai.  Bharti’s  debt  exceeded cash and cash equivalents by 650
billion rupees as of March 31, up from 600 billion rupees a year
earlier, the company said in the quarterly report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  