-- Bin Laden Death Drives Campaign Debate as Threats Live On
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-05-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/bin-laden-death-drives-campaign-debate-as-threats-live-on.html
The White House’s calibration of
words, images and details trumpeting the death of Osama bin Laden started the night President  Barack Obama  announced that
U.S. forces had killed the terrorist leader in  Pakistan .  The administration supported a film documentary about the
Navy SEAL raid against bin Laden, and the president visited the
aircraft carrier that ferried bin Laden’s body to burial at sea.  A year after the raid, six months ahead of Election Day,
renewed reminders of bin Laden have prompted Republicans to say
Obama has taken too much personal credit for the killing of the
terrorist whose group attacked the  United States  on September
11, 2001, leading to a decade-long war in Afghanistan.  This adds to the friction of Obama’s contest with presumed
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , who maintains Obama
did what any president would have done and that he would have
taken the same action. Obama’s unannounced stop in  Afghanistan 
yesterday to sign a plan turning security responsibilities over
to Afghan forces capped a days-long focus on bin Laden’s death,
including a re-election campaign video suggesting Romney
wouldn’t have gone after him.  “A year ago we were able to finally bring Osama bin Laden
to justice,” Obama said in comments to U.S. troops in
Afghanistan, while focusing credit and praise on the military
personnel stationed there after a decade of war.  Later, in a nationally televised address to American
viewers from Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan, Obama mentioned bin
Laden three times.  ‘Mission Accomplished’  Yesterday was the ninth anniversary of then-President
 George W. Bush ’s appearance on the USS  Abraham Lincoln  to
announce an end to major military operations in  Iraq , standing
beneath a banner that read: “Mission accomplished.” The
official end to the war in Iraq didn’t come until last December.  While Obama deserves credit for the mission that killed bin
Laden, he’s placed too much emphasis on “I, I, I,’” said Clark S. Judge, a former speechwriter for President  Ronald Reagan . He
called Obama’s approach “graceless.”  “It’s not unusual or remarkable that a campaign would try
to work with Hollywood and with others to play up the things
that are admirable about their person,” Judge said. “What I do
think is over the top is when the man himself comes off as
putting them in the spotlight.”  Responding to Romney  H.W. Brands, a presidential historian at the  University of
Texas  in Austin, disagrees. Romney has been accusing Obama of
being weak on  Iran  and other threats, he said, and Obama is
responding with his best hand.  “I don’t really see that Obama or the administration have
overplayed this,” Brands said, considering that “ Osama bin
Laden  was the most wanted criminal in the world for 10 years.  “I don’t see any evidence that the public does either,”
he said. “The Republicans are going to make mischief on this.
But I have a hunch this is going to fade in a couple days.”  Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , who lost the
2008 presidential election to Obama, criticized him last week
for the bin Laden-related campaign ad, released April 27.  “Shame on Barack Obama for diminishing the memory of
September 11th and the killing of Osama bin Laden by turning it
into a cheap political attack ad,” McCain said in a statement.  In an interview yesterday on  CNN , McCain credited a
bipartisan group of lawmakers for working on the strategic
partnership agreement with Afghanistan, and said it was
important for Obama to signal that U.S. commitment. He declined
to criticize the president for his trip to Afghanistan.  Eisenhower Biographer  Michael Korda, author of “Ike: An American Hero,” a
biography of President Dwight Eisenhower, said in an e-mail that
“Obama did just fine, and Ike would have agreed” in his
handling of the anniversary of bin Laden’s death.  “Obama did what had to be done,” he said of the bin Laden
raid, ”and hasn’t boasted about it, or done a ridiculous song-
and-dance like President Bush in a flight suit on the deck of an
 aircraft carrier  to announce, ‘Mission accomplished.’”  Frank Newport , editor in chief of the Gallup Poll, said
there isn’t yet data to assess the impact of the campaign ads on
the killing of bin Laden. “It’s difficult to tease out the
exact impact that it is having on Obama’s re-election chances
now,” Newport said in an e-mail.  While U.S. support for bin Laden’s killing was
overwhelming, Newport said, a 7 percentage point boost in
Obama’s job approval afterward disappeared within weeks.  Romney’s Remarks  Romney, appearing yesterday at a New York City firehouse
that lost personnel in the Sept. 11 attacks, said he would have
made “the same decision” Obama made to carry out the mission
against bin Laden.  It was “inappropriate” for Obama to suggest otherwise, as
he did in an April 30 news conference and as his campaign did
more directly with its ad, Romney said.  “At this point now, everybody is politicizing it,” said
 Seth Jones , a senior political scientist at RAND Corporation in
Arlington, Virginia. That’s “unhelpful” and a distraction from
threats posed by remaining terrorists and offshoots of al-Qaeda,
said Jones, who has advised the U.S. military on special
operations and is author of “Hunting in the Shadows: The
Pursuit of Al Qa’ida Since 9/11.”  “The plotting and the plans for an attack are going to
happen regardless of what tone he strikes,” Jones said of
Obama.  Mixed Messages  The administration has delivered mixed messages, with the
president yesterday in Afghanistan hailing “the light of a new
day on the horizon.” The Defense Department issued a report this 
week about the weaknesses of the Afghan military, and a State 
Department official warned yesterday of the corrosive effects of 
corruption in the government of Afghan President Hamid Karzai.  Al-Qaeda operations are trying to develop capabilities for
cyber-attacks against U.S. networks, the intelligence chief for
U.S. Cyber Command, Rear Admiral Samuel Cox, said last week. Al-
Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and the Islamic Maghreb remain
threats, as well as Somalia’s al-Shabaab.  As a slow U.S. economic recovery has complicated Obama’s
re-election prospects, the president and his team over the past
year have emphasized selective aspects of bin Laden’s killing to
bolster Obama’s image on national security, traditionally an
area of political weakness for Democrats.  Situation Room  Today, NBC News will air an exclusive anniversary interview
which Obama granted the network from the White House’s Situation
Room, where Obama and top aides witnessed the raid on the bin
Laden compound play out.  That follows the release of the campaign video that
includes former President  Bill Clinton  praising Obama for
ordering the raid against bin Laden and using Romney’s past
statements to question whether he would have ordered it.  The administration last year cooperated with “Hurt
Locker” director Kathryn Bigelow and screenwriter Mark Boal on
a film about the raid to be released this year. That triggered
an inquiry by congressional Republicans and the Pentagon’s
inspector general.  In November, on his way to a conference of Asia-Pacific
nations, Obama stopped in San Diego to speak to U.S. troops and
watch a basketball game aboard the aircraft carrier that had
transported bin Laden’s body for its sea burial.  In March, the campaign released a 17-minute video narrated
by actor Tom Hanks and directed by Academy Award-winning
documentary maker David Guggenheim in which Vice President Joe Biden dramatized the solitary nature of Obama’s final approval
of the bin Laden mission: “Nobody is standing there with him.”  Obama regularly mentions the bin Laden killing in campaign
appearances, while crediting the military.  “Thanks to the incredible men and women in uniform, al-
Qaeda is weaker than it has ever been, and Osama bin Laden will
never again walk the face of this Earth,” he said at a March 1
campaign fundraising reception in  New York .  In a news conference on April 30, Obama said the one-year-
mark is a time for “some reflection,” and “I hardly think
that you’ve seen any excessive celebration taking place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  