-- Bin Laden Death Date Brings Security ‘Surge’ to New York
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-02T16:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/bin-laden-death-date-brings-security-surge-to-new-york.html
New York  police are taking extra
safety measures at transit hubs in the city on the first
anniversary of Osama bin Laden’s death, as terrorists seek new
ways to conceal bombs, including human implants.  The  New York City Police Department  began the “security
surge” before today’s morning rush hour at sites including
Grand Central Terminal, Pennsylvania Station and Times Square,
to coincide with the anniversary of the al-Qaeda leader’s death,
said  Paul Browne , an NYPD spokesman.  Hundreds of police officers, some with canine patrols and
heavy weapons, have been deployed at transit hubs, along with
personnel from the state Metropolitan Transportation Authority,
 Amtrak , the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey,  New Jersey 
Transit, the U.S. Transportation Security Administration and the
National Guard, said  John McCarthy , an NYPD spokesman.  The surge will continue into the evening rush hour, and
commuters can expect bag screenings and train patrols, McCarthy
said.  So-called body bombs have been a concern for U.S. officials
since last year, when the TSA alerted airlines and their
counterparts in other nations to the potential risk of implanted
explosives. Yemen-based al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula has
been looking for ways to develop bombs stitched into a
terrorist’s belly, breasts or buttocks, according to  Seth Jones ,
a counterterrorism specialist at the Rand Corp., a  Santa Monica ,
California-based policy group.  ‘Body Bomb Technique’  “The intelligence community has been aware for some time
of a Yemen-based terrorist bomb maker who has been attempting to
perfect the so-called body bomb technique,” the NYPD’s Browne
said in an e-mail. “However, we’re not aware of any specific
plot at the anniversary involving the airlines or any other
target.”  The bomb maker, in a failed plot to kill a Saudi prince,
implanted an explosive device in his own brother, according to
the U.S. State Department.  Bin Laden  was killed by U.S. Navy SEAL commandos during a
raid on his compound in Abbottabad,  Pakistan , on May 2, 2011.
Al-Qaeda vowed to exact revenge for his death four days later.  Federal air marshals were shifted overseas in advance of
the anniversary and security has been increased at airports in
the in the U.K. and elsewhere, with a focus on U.S. carriers,
ABC News reported yesterday, citing unidentified law enforcement
officials.  ‘Continued Interest’  Sterling Payne, a spokeswoman for the TSA, declined to
comment on the ABC report, referring questions to the U.S.
 Homeland Security  Department.  Peter Boogaard, a spokesman for Homeland Security, said al-
Qaeda and its allies and affiliates have expressed “continued
interest” in attacking Western targets, although there is no
indication of any specific or credible threats or plots against
the U.S. tied to the anniversary.  The  Port Authority  of New York & New Jersey, which operates
the New York City region’s airports, is “vigilant day in and
day out on security matters,” Ron Marsico, a spokesman for the
agency, said in a telephone interview.  New York has adopted new security measures since the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attacks, posting bomb-sniffing dogs at train
stations and airports, and inspecting passengers’ backpacks at
subway stations.  Pennsylvania Station  Millions of people pass through New York’s transportation
hubs every day, making them targets for terrorists. Pennsylvania
Station is the busiest U.S. rail hub, with almost 8.4 million
riders using the station in 2010, according to Amtrak, the
national passenger train service.  About 500,000 people traverse  Times Square  daily, according
to the Times Square Alliance. The intersection, at the heart of
New York’s theater district, was the target of a failed truck-
bomb plot in May 2010. About 160,000 people a day used the Times
Square subway station in 2010, according to the alliance.  Yesterday, a New York man was convicted of plotting to bomb
the city’s subways on the eighth anniversary of the Sept. 11
attacks. Adis Medunjanin, 28, was found guilty by a jury in
federal court in  Brooklyn , New York, on nine charges including
conspiracy to use weapons of mass destruction and providing
material support to a foreign terrorist organization.  The  subway system  had an average weekday  ridership  in 2011
of 5.28 million, according to the  Metropolitan Transportation
Authority .  Underpants Bombs  Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula evaded security with
bombs concealed in toner cartridges in 2010 and in an attacker’s
underpants on Christmas in 2009. The plots failed. Intelligence
helped uncover the printer equipment smuggled aboard two cargo
flights from Yemen, and a failed detonation alerted fellow
passengers who subdued the would-be bomber aboard a Detroit-
bound jet originating in Amsterdam.  In March 2011, the U.S. State Department designated the
group’s primary bomb maker, Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri, as a
terrorist. Before joining AQAP, al-Asiri was part of an al-
Qaeda-affiliated terrorist cell in  Saudi Arabia  and was involved
in planned bombings of oil facilities there, the U.S. said in a
statement.  The State Department said that al-Asiri gained “particular
notoriety” for the recruitment of his younger brother as a
suicide bomber in a failed assassination attempt of Saudi Prince
Muhammed bin Nayif.  ‘Brutality, Novelty’  “The brutality, novelty and sophistication of the plot is
illustrative of the threat posed by al-Asiri,” according to the
statement. “Al-Asiri is credited with designing the remotely
detonated device, which contained one pound of explosives
concealed inside his brother’s body.”  U.S. officials had believed al-Asiri died in a drone strike
in  Yemen  last year that killed U.S.-born al-Qaeda recruiter
Anwar al-Awlaki in Yemen. He has since resurfaced, the
 Associated Press  reported last week, citing unidentified
counterterrorism officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  