-- Blankfein’s Gay-Rights Stance Shows Wall Street’s Dilemma
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-03T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/blankfein-s-gay-rights-support-shows-wall-street-s-obama-dilemma.html
Lloyd C. Blankfein,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ’s chief executive officer, heard from a partner at
his firm yesterday about the dilemma Wall Street gay-rights
advocates face in this year’s presidential race between Democrat
 Barack Obama  and Republican  Mitt Romney .  “One of my straight, male partners yesterday gave me
permission to vote for Obama, but he told me I’m the only
partner at Goldman Sachs who has permission,” said Susan Scher,
who said she’s a lesbian as she spoke from the audience at the
“Out on the Street” LGBT Leadership Conference. Gay rights is
“the only issue that he sees as an issue that it’s kind of OK
for someone who works on Wall Street to vote for Obama.”  While Blankfein, who has campaigned for gay rights, quickly
reminded her she has the right to vote for anyone, her anecdote
-- which was told humorously and drew laughs in the audience --
summed up a quandary he said he also faces: Should  Wall Street 
workers back Romney for his support of lighter regulation and
lower taxes, even though Republicans have been less progressive
on some social issues such as gay rights?  For gay rights, “I don’t think it’s going to be a harsh
environment in a Romney administration,” said  Paul Singer , the
67-year-old founder of hedge-fund firm Elliott Management Corp.
and a Republican activist who pushed for the legalization of
same-sex marriage in New York state. “It’s a process if Mitt
Romney is elected -- it’s a process of pressure, education,”
said Singer, who shared the stage with Blankfein, 57.  ‘Fear Mongering’  Wall Street firms, many of which offer same-sex couples
health-care benefits, have led corporate America in supporting
gay rights, said Mark Stephanz, vice chairman of the global
financial sponsors group at  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch.  Blankfein and Singer discussed the financial industry’s
role in advancing gay rights during the forum at  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ’s midtown Manhattan offices, where barricades remained
from the May 1  Occupy Wall Street  protests.  Blankfein predicted support for same-sex marriage will grow
as positive results in states that legalized the practice trump
“fear mongering.” The financial industry’s focus on
“numeric” performance makes its culture consistent with the
push for equality, he said.  “When you’re wrestling with the market, the market doesn’t
care whether you’re black or white, tall or short, gay or
straight,” Blankfein said. “I always thought that the best
forum for democracy and meritocracy was a trading-room floor.”  Recruiting  Blankfein starred this year in an advertisement by the
Human Rights Campaign endorsing gay marriages. Last year, he
joined more than 30 New York business leaders, including Morgan
Stanley’s then-Chairman  John Mack , in signing a letter urging
the state to legalize them. Goldman Sachs employs about 32,000
people.  “It was important for our recruiting, for being able to
move people around the world, for a number of business reasons,
and then of course, last but not least, how could you not be on
the side of what to me seems like a basic civil rights
movement?” Blankfein said yesterday.  Client reaction was “generally positive,” Blankfein said.
One client wanted to end a relationship with the firm in  money
management  over the stand, he said. “I won’t say the name, but
if you heard the name it wouldn’t surprise you.”  North Carolina lawmakers are considering a measure that
would constitutionally ban gay marriage, cementing a state law
that already bars the government from granting marriage licenses
to same-sex couples. Bank of America’s technology chief,
Catherine Bessant, said the initiative would make it harder for
companies to attract talent to the state.  ‘Inclusion Efforts’  “We gear our whole diversity and inclusion efforts so that
you can come in, be yourself and be successful,” Bank of
America CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  said yesterday at the event.  Goldman Sachs as an institution doesn’t have a view on who
should be elected U.S. president in November, Blankfein said in
an April 25 interview on CNBC. While the banker publicly
supported  Hillary Clinton ’s campaign for president in 2008, he
said he hasn’t made up his mind about whom to support this time.  “I’m a Rockefeller Republican -- a registered Democrat and
a Rockefeller Republican,” he told CNBC, referring to a person
whose views on fiscal policy tend to align with Republicans and
positions on social issues align with Democrats. “Where that
will get me, I’m not sure yet.”  Obama’s campaign manager has assured some financial-
industry donors that the president won’t demonize Wall Street in
his re-election pursuit after previously criticizing pay for
“fat cat” bankers. His 2012 budget calls for big financial
institutions to pay $61 billion over 10 years in a “Financial
Crisis Responsibility Fee.”  Dodd-Frank Rollback  Romney has called for a rollback of the Dodd-Frank Act that
boosted regulation and threatens to crimp banks’ profitability.
He also has opposed Obama’s push to increase tax rates on the
richest Americans, a group that includes many Wall Streeters.  Romney’s spokesman on national security matters, Richard Grenell, who is openly gay, resigned from his campaign post this
week after attacks by anti-gay activists within his own party.  “My ability to speak clearly and forcefully on the issues
has been greatly diminished by the hyper-partisan discussion of
personal issues that sometimes comes from a presidential
campaign,” Grenell said, according to a statement obtained by
the Washington Post, which earlier reported the resignation.  Neither candidate has been constructive on gay marriage
rights, Singer said. Obama has said that while he “struggles”
with his views on the issue, he backs civil unions for gay
couples.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  