-- Bo Downfall Shows Crony Communism Widening Rich-Poor Gap
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-02T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/bo-downfall-shows-crony-communism-widening-rich-poor-gap.html
Behind the crimson walls of the former
imperial compound that is Beijing’s equivalent of the White
House,  Communist Party  leaders cranked  China ’s decades-old
propaganda machine into overdrive. Tapping a system used to
quell public dissent since Mao Zedong’s anointed heir was
accused of treason in 1971, apparatchiks distributed internal
documents to bring more than 80 million party members into line.  Then, at 11 p.m. on April 10, the announcement was made by
China’s official Xinhua News agency: Authorities were
investigating Bo Xilai, the son of a prominent Communist
revolutionary and former leader of Chongqing, for “serious
discipline violations.” His wife and household helper were being
held as suspects in the murder of a 41-year-old British
associate and family friend, Neil Heywood, following a business
dispute, Xinhua said minutes later.  The statements ended a month of official silence and online
rumors -- suggesting corruption, abuse of power and even a coup
plot -- since Bo was fired as head of China’s biggest and
fastest-developing municipality. It also halted the rise of the
62-year-old Politburo member, who was a contender for elevation
later this year to the nine-member Standing Committee that rules
China.  The self-styled crime-buster and champion of the poor who
revived Mao-era songs and ideals has become a symbol of the
social ills he was fighting. His removal may prove to be a two-
edged sword for China’s leadership as it prepares for its once-
in-a-decade change of power later this year, fueling anger over
how the spoils of China’s wealth creation are creamed off by
officials as social inequality widens.  ‘Warning for Years’  “People inside the party at the highest level of government
have been warning for years that this kind of corruption will
destroy the party,” says Minxin Pei, a professor of politics at
 Claremont McKenna College ,  California , who specializes in China.
“But the medication may be equally lethal. That’s the dilemma.”  No specific allegations have been published against Bo and
authorities haven’t released details of the investigation. Even
so, microbloggers beat online censors to turn their ire on the
ruling Communist Party elite and a system that they see allows
those with power to plunder the nation’s wealth for their own
gain.  Some 16,000 to 18,000 officials from the government,
judiciary and state-owned companies fled China with 800 billion
yuan ($127 billion) since the 1990s, according to a report by
the central bank that briefly appeared on its website in June
last year.  Major Purges  High-profile purges of the former leaders of Shanghai and
Beijing, who had the same party rank as Bo; a former supreme-
court judge; the former railway minster; and thousands of local
and regional officials have failed for decades to eradicate
China’s widespread graft. The country lost $2.74 trillion over
the decade ending 2009 to corruption, five times more than
second-place  Mexico , most of it secreted overseas, according to
 Global Financial Integrity , a Washington-based research
organization.  As Bo rose from a provincial bureaucrat to the Communist
Party boss of Chongqing, where he rated a salary of about 10,000
yuan ($1,585) a month, his family’s wealth grew dramatically.
His relatives have accumulated at least $136 million, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg on the extended family’s business
interests, including those of his wife’s older sisters. Li
Wangzhi, Bo’s son by a first marriage, and at least two of Bo’s
brothers held positions in banking and industry. Bo’s other son,
Bo Guagua, studies at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
Massachusetts.  Blog Backlash  The revelations sparked a backlash in a country where
 income inequality  has grown to be the biggest in  Asia , according
to Terry Sicular, a professor at the University Of Western
Ontario, and per capita income ranks 121st out of 215 countries,
beneath Namibia and Dominican Republic, according to the  World
Bank .  “This case likely outrages Chinese because it appears to be
a blatant example of the most powerful elites feeling they can
ignore the rules and commit acts with impunity that ordinary
people couldn’t possibly attempt, much less get away with,” said
Martin Whyte, professor of sociology at Harvard.  Like Watergate in the U.S., Bo’s undoing is a milestone in
unearthing corruption at the core of China’s elite, according to
Claremont McKenna’s Pei. It echoes the fall of General Lin Biao,
who died in a plane crash in 1971 after an alleged coup and
whose reported opulent lifestyle shocked Chinese, he said.  Officials feared that Bo’s fall could be as shattering,
said Dali Yang, a political scientist at the University of
Chicago and head of its Beijing center. To control public
reaction, workers at Party headquarters in Beijing conveyed
messages internally “to prepare the elite for the formal
announcement,” he said, citing conversations with other
professors in China who received internal documents.  Party Challenge  The risk for China is widening cynicism that could taint
everyone in power and challenge the legitimacy of the regime,
said Andrew Nathan, a political scientist at  Columbia University 
in  New York  City. China’s rulers spend more on public security
than on national defense in the face of about 500 disturbances a
day, including protests by people who’ve lost homes and land to
official projects or been the victim of corruption or brutality.  “The bitterest element in this saga is the lack of
confidence and trust in the system,” said Ai Weiwei, an artist
in Beijing whose own clashes with authorities led to him being
detained and having his movements restricted. “There is no way
to know the truth.”  The stream of posts on mainland microblogs since Bo’s
ouster often appeared faster than China’s censors could delete
them. “This system resembles the feudal times more than the
feudal times itself,” wrote one. “After all the public are like
abandoned dogs. That doesn’t seem to have changed after a
thousand years,” wrote another under the name RedsGerrard.  Blocked Tomato  Censors blocked sensitive words including Bo’s name and
even “tomato,” which sounds like “western red city” in Chinese
and is used to refer to Chongqing under Bo’s Maoist
mobilizations.  Bo’s status as a member of China’s red nobility has been
highlighted by microbloggers. His father Bo Yibo was a
revolutionary hero of Communist China and one of the “Eight
Immortals” who helped introduce economic reforms in the 1980s.  Scions of influential Party figures, often called
princelings, hold positions of power throughout China’s
political and business universe. Former Premier Zhu Rongji’s son,
Levin Zhu, is the president of the investment bank China
International Capital Corp. Li Xiaolin, the daughter of former
premier Li Peng, is the chairman of utility China Power
International Development Ltd. Premier Wen Jiabao’s son,
“Winston” Yunsong Wen, is chairman of China Satellite
Communications Corp. and a co-founder of Beijing-based private
equity company New Horizon Capital.  Born to Rule  One of them was reported as saying the princelings were
born to rule. A profile in the official Chongqing Evening News
of Chen Tonghai, the son of an early revolutionary who became
the top official in the northeast city of Tianjin, quoted him as
saying that if the Republic’s eldest sons didn’t monopolize, who
would?  Chen, a former chairman of China Petroleum & Chemical Corp.,
received a suspended death penalty in 2009 for taking 196
million  yuan  in bribes. Chinese media reported allegations he
was spending 40,000 yuan a day and was sharing a mistress with
his allies.  “The Bo Xilai affair reveals a political culture that
resembles the mafia,” said Perry Link, a China scholar at the
 University of California , Riverside. “It is not an exception,
but a representative slice.”  Last Appearance  March 9 was the last time Bo was seen publicly, slouched in
an armchair before a roomful of reporters in Beijing, where
leaders had assembled for the annual legislative gathering. He
angrily defended his family against allegations that their
lifestyle of overseas private schools and fast cars was far
beyond his government paycheck.  “I’ve heard some are throwing filthy water on Chongqing,
and even on my own family,” Bo said, wearing a bright yellow tie
and dark blue suit. “Some even said my son, studying overseas,
drives a red Ferrari. That’s absolutely nonsense. Not only my
son, but I and my wife have no personal assets. That’s been the
case for decades.”  Bo, a journalism graduate, has long courted the media,
using it to set himself apart from the run-of-the-mill
bureaucrats during his seven years as mayor of Dalian, a port
city in Liaoning in China’s northeast.  Kissinger and Gore  He waged a publicity campaign that featured articles by
writers comparing his political savvy to Henry Kissinger, his
environmental consciousness to Al Gore, and his public adoration
to  Princess Diana , according to “China’s Leaders: The New
Generation,” by Cheng Li, a China specialist at the  Brookings
Institution  in  Washington . After Bo moved to Chongqing in 2007,
his crime crackdown, economic plan and battle against social
inequality became a focus of national media coverage that was
coined the “Chongqing model.”  Less than a week after the press conference, Bo was removed
from his position. The first signs of trouble came a month
earlier when Chongqing’s former police chief Wang Lijun, the
architect of Bo’s anti-mafia campaign, fled to the U.S.
Consulate in Chengdu, 165 miles (266 kilometers) away, where he
outlined to startled American officials a plot of money
laundering, betrayal and murder involving Bo and his family,
according to current and former U.S. officials briefed on the
matter. After spending the night of Feb. 6 holed up in the
consulate ringed by police, Wang turned himself over to central
authorities, according to the officials.  Strike Black  Bo’s crackdown on organized crime was a cornerstone of his
tenure, called “da hei,” or “strike black” in reference to the
Chinese word “black society” for organized crime. Chongqing
police arrested 1,544 people in the two months after the
offensive started in June 2009, according to Xinhua.  The crackdown inspired nationwide copycats -- and
allegations of abuse. In 2011, police across China arrested
29,000 suspects from 3,000 gangster groups, according to the
National Dahei Office, which co-ordinates organized crime
investigations across the country.  “The Chongqing crackdown became a model,” said lawyer Zhu
Mingyong, of Beijing Zhongguan Law Firm. “Many policemen in
other cities got very excited watching that campaign, because it
means ultimate authority is going to the police.”  More than half of the 25-member Politburo visited Chongqing
to endorse Bo’s policies, according to Bo Zhiyue, a senior
research fellow at the East Asian Institute of the National
University of  Singapore . Their praise overlooked allegations of
police brutality and abuse of the legal system.  Revoked Confession  Li Zhuang, a defense lawyer, was jailed for 18 months in
February 2010 after being convicted of inciting his client to
commit perjury by telling the court he was tortured into a false
confession, according to Xinhua. Li was released in April 2011.
One of Li’s assistants who testified against him has since filed
a lawsuit against Chongqing police saying they forced him to
testify, according to a statement by his lawyer.  Other lawyers alleged similar harassment. At a legal
seminar in July 2010, Zhu of Beijing Zhongguan played video and
audio recordings of his client Fan Qihang, sentenced to death
for running a criminal gang in Chongqing. In them, Fan described
how he confessed after spending five days suspended from the
ceiling, unable to rest his feet on the floor.  Zhu says he saw familiar patterns of abuse in other cities.
Yang Jinde, a car dealer in central China’s Nanyang city, was
jailed after leading dozens of employees to Beijing to protest a
court ruling in 2010 relating to a real-estate dispute.  Leg Irons  Yang claims he was handcuffed and put in leg irons, then
locked inside a small iron cage with a police dog to get a
confession that he was a crime lord, according to an interview
with Zhu.  Zhu secretly filmed a meeting with Yang in detention. The
cellphone video shows a paralyzed and emaciated Yang wrapped in
a white cloth and lying on a bench. Yang was sentenced in
November 2011 to 18 years for organizing criminal activities and
other offenses. Part of the prosecution’s evidence was that he
asked his staff to read two management books according to the
court rulings, including a Chinese translation of “No Excuse!
Incorporating Core Values, Accountability, and Balance into Your
Life and Career,” by Jay Rifenbary.  Police in Chongqing and Nanyang refused to comment when
reached by phone.  The anger building before Bo’s fall broke through after he
was removed from power.  ‘Wrong, Wrong, Wrong!’  “Singing red songs is using the power of government to fill
the vacuum of faith. Wrong!” wrote Zhou Lian, an associate
professor of philosophy at Renmin University of China in Beijing,
on his microblog. “A mafia crackdown using the legal system to
replace rule of law. Wrong! Subsidizing the poor by hijacking
the rich is also wrong! All the paths Bo took are wrong! Wrong,
wrong, wrong!”  The Cultural Revolution had a big impact on Bo’s family. Bo
and his father were jailed and his mother committed suicide. The
family was rehabilitated in the 1980s and his father helped
craft China’s early economic reforms while Bo studied at
university.  Bo scaled the ranks in northeast China’s Liaoning Province
and got a post in Beijing as minister of commerce in 2004. Three
years later he arrived in Chongqing and took a seat on the
politburo.  “When he went to Chongqing everybody potentially in the
running for the politburo standing committee was either Tweedle
Dee or Tweedle Dum,” said Claremont McKenna’s Pei. To set
himself apart, Bo “hit on this brilliant idea of repackaging
himself.”  Red Songs  In 2008, Bo issued a list of revolutionary songs people
were encouraged to learn. The following year, as the anti-mafia
clampdown moved into high gear, toppling the former director of
the city’s judicial bureau, millions of Chongqing residents got
quotes from Mao’s Little Red Book sent to their mobile phones.
Local television stations were dedicated to revolutionary
propaganda.  Part of the package was spending on social programs, using
Chongqing to try reforms to address China’s growing inequality.
The city borrowed at least 157 billion yuan through local
government finance vehicles, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, to fund social housing for locals and migrants and to
plant trees.  While China stopped issuing national figures measuring
inequality, Chongqing trumpeted its own success. At his March 9
press conference, Bo emphasized Chongqing’s efforts to reduce
the urban-rural income gap. Huang Qifan, the city’s mayor, said
five days before that the city had reduced the wealth gap as
measured by the Gini coefficient to 0.42 from 0.44.  Dream Home  “People in Chongqing still think highly of Bo Xilai,” said
Zhou Xingli, a 46-year-old unemployed woman outside her home in
the government’s Minxin Jiayuan housing project halfway between
the airport and the city center. “Without him, people like us
will never in our lifetime get a home like this. He did a lot of
real things for Chongqing. Look at all the trees.”  Zhou pays about 50 yuan a month for a 40 square meter flat
in Minxin, which means People’s Hearts in Chinese.  Elsewhere in China, the Bo saga is seen by some as part of
a political struggle, like many other purges and counter-purges
that mark China’s history.  Staring into a lake at the central park in  Shanghai ’s
Lujiazui district, 24-year-old Gao Wen says he doesn’t think
Bo’s ouster will strike a blow to the powerful, whose main
motive is to protect their own interests.  Corruption Problem  “Everyone talks about change,” said the unemployed
financial technician. “Probably no one, even if they want to,
has the capability or determination to fix the corruption
problem.”  Chinese state media has moved to damp speculation about the
case. An April 26 article in the Global Times, a Communist Party
paper, accused the Western media of exaggerating the negative
influences of Bo on the Party’s work.  While Bo has vanished, the political damage has already
been done, according to Nathan of Columbia.  “All the worst things you ever imagined are actually true,”
Nathan said. “It’s not like nobody knew about this stuff, but
now they know that it really is true and it’s as bad as it can
possibly be.”  --Shai Oster, Fan Wenxin and Dune Lawrence. With assistance from
Michael Forsythe, Yidi Zhao and Dingmin Zhang in Beijing, Indira
A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington, Natasha Khan, Vinicy Chan and  Ben Richardson  in  Hong Kong  and  John Gittelsohn  in  Los Angeles .
Editors: Neil Western, Adam Majendie.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Shai Oster in Hong Kong at 
 soster@bloomberg.net 
Wenxin Fan in Shanghai at 
 wfan19@bloomberg.net ;
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net 
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  