-- Bodemiester, Union Rags Made Top Favorites in Kentucky Derby
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/bodemiester-made-4-1-kentucky-derby-favorite-union-rags-second.html
Bodemeister, trained by three-time
 Kentucky Derby  winner  Bob Baffert , was installed as the 4-1
favorite for the 138th Kentucky Derby, with Michael Matz’s Union
Rags close behind at 9-2.  Todd Pletcher ’s Gemologist, the only undefeated runner in
the May 5 race, was give 6-1 morning line odds yesterday by
Churchill Downs handicapper Mike Battaglia.  Bodemeister, who began his racing career in January, will
try to become the first horse that was unraced as a juvenile to
win the 1 1/4-mile (2 kilometer) Derby since Apollo in 1882. The
three-year-old colt will leave the gate from the sixth post
position.  “I was relieved that he didn’t get the one hole,” Baffert
said. “I just didn’t want to be stuck on the rail, like I was
with Lookin at Lucky and had that horrible feeling. I think all
the good horses drew really well for this race. It’s going to be
very competitive.”  Battaglia, who has been giving the early odds since 1975,
said he made Bodemeister the favorite because of the colt’s “so
much superior victory in the Arkansas Derby,” which the three-
year-old won by 9 1/2 lengths.  Bodemeister, owned by  Ahmed Zayat ’s stables, was named for
the son of Baffert, who has been recovering from surgery
following a heart attack during his stay in Dubai for the $10
million Dubai  World Cup .  Not So Bad  Union Rags, with Julien Leparoux aboard, will leave from
the fourth gate. Matz initially was ambivalent about his post
draw.  “We’re going to have him run out of there a little bit,
but that’s not the worst thing in the world,” said Matz,
trainer of undefeated Barbaro, who won the 2006 Derby before
breaking down in the  Preakness Stakes . “My original thought was
that I wasn’t crazy about it, but where everybody is, I don’t
think it’s so bad.”  Gemologist, ridden by Javier Castellano, drew the 15th post
position. Pletcher’s second entry, El Padrino, is 20-1, leaving
from the 16th gate.  “Perfect. It worked out perfect,” Pletcher said. “I love
the 15, the first one in the auxiliary gate. There’s a little
space there. He’s outside all the speed. They’re both together,
so it makes it easier in the paddock.”  ‘Borel Factor’  Take Charge Indy was given lower odds of 15-1 by Battaglia
because of the “Borel factor.”  Calvin Borel  won a record third
Derby in four years in 2010 aboard Super Saver. Known for
hugging the rail, he won the 2009 race with 50-1 Mine That Bird
and in 2007 with Street Sense. Take Charge Indy and Borel will
start from the No. 3 post position.  Hansen, the winner of the Breeders’ Cup Juvenile for two-
year-olds, drew the 14th post position and was placed fifth with
10-1 odds behind Dullahan, winner of the Blue Grass Stakes, an
8-1 chance running from the fifth gate.  Trainer H. Graham Motion, who had last year’s Derby long-
shot winner Animal Kingdom that ran from the 16th gate, will see
Went The Day Well leaving the 13th post position at 20-1 odds.  “We chose the same prep race we did for  Animal Kingdom  to
get us here,” Motion said. “We didn’t have a lot of earnings
to get in the Derby so we picked a race we could win. I would
have taken lucky 16. Anybody who says no luck is involved is
crazy.”  The race had 21 entrants for the 20 available positions. My
Adonis, trained by Kelly Breen, will move into the 20th post
position if one of the contenders withdraws by 9 a.m. May 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  