-- BOE Lacks Case to Expand U.K. Stimulus Program, CBI Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/boe-officials-lack-strong-case-for-more-u-k-stimulus-cbi-says.html
Bank of England officials don’t have a
strong case to extend their quantitative-easing program as the
 economy  will rebound from its recession, the  Confederation of
British Industry  said.  “In my judgment, the underlying trajectory for the British
economy remains the same despite these occasional knocks,” CBI
Director-General  John Cridland  said in an interview yesterday.
“It’s not obvious to me that there is a strong case for more QE
at the moment.”  Bank of England policy makers will decide on May 10 whether
to increase the size of their bond-purchase plan amid
conflicting signals on the economy. Governor  Mervyn King  said
late yesterday that the recovery is proving slower than
expected, though inflation is “still too high.”  Cridland said he’s “cautiously optimistic” about the
economy and doesn’t see evidence of a “prolonged downturn.” He
said data last week showing  gross domestic product  fell in the
first quarter were at odds with anecdotal evidence from
companies that confidence is improving. He said the economy will
probably rebound in the second half.  While the 0.2 percent drop in GDP in the first three months
of the year pushed Britain into its first  double-dip recession 
since the 1970s, rising oil prices threaten to stoke inflation.
The GDP figure prompted the CBI, the U.K.’s biggest business
lobby group, to cut its 2012 growth forecast today to 0.6
percent from 0.9 percent in February. It forecast 2 percent
expansion in 2013.  While “the second quarter is going to be close to flat,”
GDP will grow 0.7 percent in the following three months and 0.5
percent in the fourth quarter, Cridland said.  ‘From From Over’  “The present crisis is far from over, as events in the
euro area illustrate weekly,” King said in a speech in  London .
“Our own economy is still not back to health. Although
inflation has fallen back in recent months, it is still too
high.”  Data this week showed U.K.  construction  growth slowed less
than forecast last month, while expansion in  manufacturing  eased
more than estimated. A report today may show activity in
 services , the largest part of the economy, also cooled.  A separate survey today showed that while U.K. business
confidence dropped last month, it is still at levels consistent
with growth, according to Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets. Its
index of companies’ economic optimism fell to 26 from 31 the
previous month, when the gauge increased 30 points, the unit of
Lloyds Banking Group Plc said.  BOE Meeting  Bank of England  officials will decide next week whether to
expand their bond-purchase program or halt it at 325 billion
pounds ($526 billion). They have left the benchmark  interest
rate  at 0.5 percent, a record low, since early 2009.  “They’ve got a lot to get their head around,” Cridland
said. “The evidence is clear that we’re not going to see any
change in  interest-rate  policy this year. It will probably be
well into next year before it will be sensible for the bank to
begin to change that.”  The CBI chief also commented on recent speculation on who
might replace King when he steps down next year.  “What we need is somebody who has the ability to connect
with the City, connect with the banking community,” Cridland
said, referring to London’s financial district. The job requires
someone who can “look them in the eye, have the tough
conversations, but also have a strong understanding of the needs
of the banking sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  