-- Bolivia Following Argentine Takeover Deepens Regional Divide
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-05-02T16:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/bolivia-following-argentine-takeover-deepens-regional-divide.html
President  Evo Morales ’s seizure of
Bolivia’s main electricity company, two weeks after Argentina
took over its biggest oil producer, is reinforcing the divide
between Latin American leaders that support private investment
and those seeking more state control of their economies.  “These decisions, and the way they have been carried out,
are bound to increase risks for foreign investors in Argentina,
Bolivia and perhaps a few other countries,”  Michael Shifter ,
president of the Washington-based Inter-American Dialogue policy
center, said in an interview. “For most governments in the
region, sound economic performance is prized more than short-
term symbolic gains.”  Bolivia, Venezuela, Argentina and Ecuador have taken over
energy, cement, airline, pension and mining companies in the
past five years while governments in Chile, Colombia,  Brazil  and
Mexico have sought to draw investment to bolster growth. The
divergent tacks are reflected in the  bond market . The average
yield on dollar notes issued by Venezuela, Argentina and  Ecuador 
is 10.36 percent, compared with 3.88 percent in the countries
perceived as pursuing more free-market policies, according to
data compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Labor Day Nationalizations  Morales announced yesterday that Bolivia is nationalizing
the local assets of Alcobendas, Spain-based  Red Electrica Corp. (REE) ,
giving him control of the Andean nation’s power grid. Morales
said the company’s local investment was inadequate and that
energy should be controlled by the government, echoing Argentine
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s justification for her
takeover last month of oil producer  YPF SA (YPFD)  from Spanish parent
 Repsol YPF SA. (REP)   Red Electrica  declined  2.2 percent to 32.155 euros today in
Madrid, snapping two days of gains. The benchmark  IBEX 35 (IBEX)  index
dropped 2.6 percent.  Bolivia generated 45.7 million euros ($60 million) in
revenue for Red Electrica in 2011, less than 3 percent of total
sales. By comparison, YPF reported sales of $12.4 billion.  Morales, a 52-year-old ally of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, has announced government takeovers in five of the past
seven Labor Days, which is celebrated on May 1 in  Latin America 
and most of the world. On May 1, 2010, he nationalized four
power companies, including assets from U.K.’s Rurelec Plc and
France’s GDF Suez SA.  “This is a time when Evo is looking to highlight his
national project to turn Bolivia over to the people who have
been underprivileged,” said  Eric Farnsworth , the vice president
of the Council of the Americas in  Washington . “It’s crazy to
invest in  Bolivia  and this is a perfect example why. The irony
is that he’s taking actions that guarantee that investment will
dry up further.”  Chavez Takeovers  Chavez, who has provided Morales with both political and
financial support, began his nationalization drive in 2007 when
he took control of the country’s largest telecommunications
company and an electricity company and forced foreign  oil
companies  into minority shareholder agreements as part of joint
ventures. Since then, Chavez has expanded control over what he
calls “strategic sectors” -- steel plants, cement, food
processing and mining companies, banks and farm land.  Bolivia’s takeover stems from domestic politics and doesn’t
suggest similar moves will follow in Latin America, said Carlos Caicedo, the head of forecasting for the region at Exclusive
Analysis, a London-based specialist intelligence company.  “This decision comes at a moment when the president’s
popularity is at its lowest and his government is under pressure
from a series of social protests,” Caicedo wrote in a report.
“We don’t see any hard evidence pointing to a trend or revival
of nationalization in Latin America.”  Bond Yields  Venezuela ’s dollar bonds yield 913 basis points, or 9.13
percentage points, over Treasuries while Argentina’s spread is
953 basis points, according to JPMorgan. The countries post the
two highest yield gaps among major emerging-market countries.  By comparison, Colombia, which has a yield spread of 148
basis points, sold a minority stake in state-controlled
Ecopetrol SA in a 2007 initial public offering for $2.7 billion.
Brazil, which has a yield gap of 184 basis points, raised $14
billion from a February auction of licenses to operate three of
the country’s busiest airports in an effort to accelerate
investments ahead of the 2014  World Cup .  Bolivian Finance Minister Luis Arce said in March that the
government is considering issuing bonds overseas this year for
the first time since 1920.  Compensation Process  An independent auditor will set compensation to be paid to
the Spanish company within 180 days, and will account for
investments, back taxes and environmental damage caused by the
company, according to a Bolivian state news agency report.  Red Electrica bought the Bolivian company in 2002 from
Union Fenosa SA,  Spain ’s No. 3 generator. Fenosa had purchased
69 percent of the Bolivian company in 1997 in a state asset
sale. Transportadora de Electricidad serves 85 percent of the
Bolivian power market.  “This company was ours before and we are nationalizing
what was ours before,” Morales said in the government
statement. He ordered the military to stand guard over the
company’s assets.  Spain is studying the situation, said an official who asked
not to be identified because of government policy.  Red Electrica is seeking to reach an agreement with Bolivia
that allows for “appropriate compensation” for the
nationalization, Antonio Prada, a spokesman for the Spanish grid
operator, said in a telephone interview.  Development Disparities  “Morales has a history of making these announcements on
the first of May, but it’s going to generate more attention
because it’s on the back of YPF, and it’s also another Spanish
company,”  Christopher Garman , director of Latin America at
Eurasia Group in Washington, said in a phone interview. For
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, “this is horrible,” he
said.  Support for Rajoy’s four-month-old government has waned
amid budget cuts designed to curb a spreading debt crisis.
Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria responded to  Argentina ’s
takeover of YPF by pledging “clear and decisive” measures for
trade and industry in retaliation for a “hostile” act. Two
weeks later, the only measure the government had adopted is a
ministerial order designed to reduce demand for Argentine
biodiesel.  The different outlooks of Latin American governments toward
investment will create disparities in development, with
countries that seek greater state control falling behind,
Farnsworth at the Council of the Americas said.  “These countries complain that they’re not getting the
investment they need to grow, which is true, but investors won’t
put money in there under these circumstances,” Farnsworth said.
“Over time the impact on lack of investment and development
will be pretty stark.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  