-- BP Oil Spill Judge Tentatively Approves $7.8 Billion Pact
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-05-03T17:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/bp-oil-spill-judge-tentatively-approves-7-8-billion-pact.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and lawyers suing the company
won preliminary approval of their proposed settlement of claims
over the 2010 Gulf of Mexico  oil spill .  BP in March agreed to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to
resolve most private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss,
property damage and spill and cleanup-related injuries. The
settlement establishes two separate classes, one for economic
loss and the other for physical injuries related to the spill or
the cleanup.  The proposed settlement is “fair, reasonable, adequate,
entered in good faith, free of collusion, and within the range
of possible judicial approval,” U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier , who has been overseeing the litigation, said in
granting preliminary approval of the agreement yesterday.  Barbier set a fairness hearing where he will consider final
settlement approval for Nov. 8. A trial on liability for the
incident will be scheduled for Jan. 14,  Louisiana  Attorney
General  Buddy Caldwell  said in an interview today after a
closed-door hearing before Barbier.  Separately, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said
yesterday that the blowout at the Macondo well that caused the
worst U.S. offshore oil spill may lead to additional criminal
charges. A former BP Plc engineer, Kurt Mix, was arrested on
April 24 on charges of intentionally destroying evidence
requested by the U.S. about the size of the spill.  Settlement Scope  The proposed settlement, reached March 2, days before a
scheduled trial on liability for the 2010 spill, doesn’t cover
federal government claims and those of Gulf Coast states
Louisiana and  Alabama . It also excludes claims of financial
institutions, casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of Florida
and  Texas , and residents and businesses claiming harm from the
Obama administration’s moratorium on deep-water drilling
prompted by the spill.  The deal will allow victims who aren’t satisfied with it to
opt out and pursue lawsuits against BP. Plaintiffs not covered
in the overall settlement, such as those claiming harm from the
moratorium, can continue to pursue their claims.  Plaintiffs “who opt out or who possess reserved claims
will be able to pursue those claims effectively outside” the
settlement under the terms of the agreement, Barbier said in
yesterday’s order.  ‘Starting Point’  Barbier said yesterday he considered objections to his
initial approval of the accord and found they weren’t persuasive
at this stage of his review of the settlement. “The court finds
these objections do not warrant denial of preliminary
approval,” the judge said.  Preliminary approval “is just a starting point, not an
ending point,” Barbier said at an April 25 hearing on the
agreement. Prospective claimants will receive notices of the
settlement terms following his order.  BP and the Plaintiffs Steering Committee, a group of
lawyers appointed by Barbier to handle the lawsuits, asked the
judge to hold a Nov. 8 fairness hearing before granting final
approval of the accord and to postpone any trial on liability
until after the hearing.  BP has agreed to pay claimants before final approval of the
settlement,  Steve Herman , co-lead counsel in the PSC, said at
the April 25 hearing.  Hundreds of Lawsuits  The blowout and  explosion  on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and started millions of barrels of crude
leaking into the Gulf. The accident prompted hundreds of
lawsuits against London-based BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier,
Switzerland-based owner and operator of the rig; and  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services.  The plaintiffs’ and government claims against BP’s
contractors on the doomed Macondo well remain, and no new trial
date has been set. A trial would cover federal and state
government pollution claims, as well as cross-claims between BP
and its partner companies in the Macondo site and rig.  Under the settlement, BP has assigned to the plaintiffs the
company’s right to seek cleanup costs and the value of the lost
oil from Transocean and Halliburton.  “We continue to believe that we have substantial legal
arguments and defenses against any liability and that BP’s
indemnity obligation protects us,” Halliburton spokeswoman
Beverly Stafford said in an e-mail today. “Halliburton will
strenuously object as appropriate at the trial and appellate
levels to provisions and terms that adversely impact our
position.”  Scott Dean , BP spokesman, declined to comment.  “We are pleased with the court’s decisions to date and
continue to have the utmost confidence in the strength of our
case,” Lou Colasuonno, a Transocean spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a Justice Department spokesman, said the
government had no comment on the judge’s ruling.  Trust Fund  The proposed settlement between BP and the Plaintiffs
Steering Committee will be paid out of a $20 billion trust set
up to compensate spill victims. The trust has about $14 billion
remaining.  BP has estimated the cost at $7.8 billion. All sides agree
the amount may increase depending on the number of claims paid.
The amount also may be lower than the estimate. If the trust is
exhausted, the company will pay additional funds directly,
lawyers for the plaintiffs said last month.  “There is no cap on the settlement,” plaintiffs’ attorney
Joe Rice told Barbier at the April 25 hearing.  Multiple parties filed objections to the settlement or
requests that Barbier delay preliminary approval.  Halliburton Objects  Halliburton objected “to the limited amount of time
available to analyze the settlement agreements and files these
preliminary objections,” Donald E. Godwin, a lawyer for the
Houston-based company, said in court papers filed April 24. The
proposed settlement was filed with the court April 18.  Halliburton also objected to the agreement because it
assigns BP’s claims against the company to the plaintiffs
lawyers and attempts to make Halliburton “liable in part for
settlement payments,” Godwin said. The settlement also
restricts Halliburton’s ability to settle claims, he said.  The American Shrimp Processors Association asked Barbier
April 23 to delay preliminary approval of the settlement,
calling it biased against some members of the shrimp industry.
The accord treats shrimp harvesters and boat captains better
than owners of docks and plants that receive the catch and
prepare it for market, the organization said in court papers.  ‘No Obvious Deficiencies’  “At this stage, the Settlement Agreement appears fair, has
no obvious deficiencies, does not improperly grant preferential
treatment to the Class Representatives or to segments of the
Class, and does not grant excessive compensation to attorneys,”
Barbier said in yesterday’s order.  “The comprehensive system of claims frameworks featured in
the Settlement Agreement is the product of many months of
intensive negotiation, provides for class recovery unlimited by
any aggregate cap, does not constitute a limited fund to be
divided among competing claimants (with the sole exception of
the $2.3 billion Seafood Compensation Program, whose allocation
was placed with a court-appointed neutral), and does not place
class members in conflict or competition with each other,” he
said.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  