-- Brazil Rate Futures Fall on Dilma Rate Comments; Real Declines
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-05-02T15:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/brazil-rate-futures-fall-on-dilma-rate-comments-real-declines.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts fell to a record as President  Dilma Rousseff 
said  interest rates  need to be lower, fueling bets the central
bank may extend the cycle of borrowing-cost cuts.  Futures yields dropped after Rousseff’s comments in an
April 30 televised address encouraged speculation that she is
close to changing rules on savings accounts to facilitate cuts
in the 9 percent benchmark Selic rate.  Brazil ’s real dropped to
the lowest level in five months as an increase in euro-area
unemployment discouraged demand for higher-yielding assets.  “More than a decline in the basic rate, Dilma wants to
force a drop in bank spreads,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist
at Sao Paulo-based Gradual Investimentos, said in a telephone
interview. “If the government changes savings rules, it will be
a warning that the Selic is going to fall more.”  The yield on the futures contract due in January 2014 fell
14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 8.62 percent at
12:02 p.m. in Sao Paulo. It earlier touched 8.61 percent, the
record low on an intraday basis.  Brazilian law requires minimum returns on  savings accounts ,
known as poupanca, spurring concern further reductions by the
central bank will drive investors out of  government bonds  and
into  bank deposits .  The real depreciated 0.3 percent to 1.9137 per  U.S. dollar 
after touching 1.9149, the weakest since Nov. 25. Markets were
closed yesterday for a national holiday.  Target Rate  Policy makers lowered the benchmark lending rate last month
by 75 basis points to 9 percent, near the record low of 8.75
percent. In the minutes to its April 17-18 meeting, the bank
said that given the delayed effects of rate cuts carried out so
far, any further cuts should be “conducted with parsimony.”  Rousseff is prodding Brazilian lenders to reduce borrowing
costs after encouraging the central bank to trim the country’s
benchmark interest rate to revive economic growth.  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) , Latin America’s largest bank by assets,
and Caixa said last month they will cut their loan rates by more
than half to increase access to credit and wrest market share
from private banks.  Itau Unibanco SA and Banco Bradesco AS also said last month
they were cutting rates charged on loans to individuals and
small and medium-sized companies.  “It’s inadmissible that Brazil, which has one of the most
solid and profitable financial systems, continues to have the
highest interest rates in the world,” Rousseff said in her
televised address this week.  Interest-Rate View  Traders are betting that central bank President Alexandre
Tombini will reduce the target lending rate by 25 basis points
to 8.75 percent at this month’s monetary policy meeting and are
divided on the possibility of another 25 basis point cut in
July, according to rate futures yields.  The real weakened today as euro-region unemployment
increased to a 15-year high and manufacturing contracted for a
ninth month, encouraging demand for a refuge in the dollar.  Speculation that Tombini will keep cutting rates and
intervening to weaken the real also helped strengthen the U.S.
currency, according to Deives Ribeiro, head of  currency trading 
at Fair Corretora de Cambio e Valores in  Sao Paulo .  “There is already a movement of global appreciation of the
dollar because of the deterioration of the global scenario,”
Perfeito said. “The government is driving this movement even
further.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  