-- Brazil Said to Announce New Savings Account Rules Tomorrow
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2012-05-02T19:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/brazil-said-to-announce-new-savings-account-rules-tomorrow.html
Brazil  will announce tomorrow plans to
reduce government-guaranteed returns on savings accounts in a
bid to make room for more  interest rate  cuts, a government
official said.  President Dilma Rousseff discussed the changes in a meeting
today with Finance Minister Guido Mantega, said the official,
who is familiar with the discussions and asked not to be named
because the matter isn’t public yet.  Brazilian policy makers lowered the country’s benchmark
rate last month by 75 basis points to 9 percent, near a record
low. Further reductions may push yields on local bonds below
government-mandated returns of more than 6 percent on savings
accounts, known as poupanca, after taking into account taxes and
fees collected by asset managers. That could prompt investors to
shift money into tax-free  savings accounts , making it more
difficult for companies and the government to sell bonds.  The yield on interest rate futures maturing in January
2014, the most traded in  Sao Paulo , extended an earlier drop on
speculation the government will remove the technical obstacle to
reducing the  benchmark  rate, said  Diego Donadio , Latin America
strategist at BNP Paribas Brasil SA. The contract fell 22 basis
points, or 0.22 percentage point, to 8.54 percent at 4:20 p.m.
local time.  ‘By All Means’  “Growth is slow and the government is trying by all means
to accelerate economic expansion,” Donadio said in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo. “Interest rates will be further
cut.”  Traders are wagering the central bank will reduce the
overnight rate to as low as 8.25 percent, after policy makers
said last month additional cuts will be “conducted with
parsimony.” Since August, the bank has reduced the Selic rate
by 350 basis points.  Valor Economico  reported earlier today that Rousseff will
meet tomorrow with lawmakers, unions and business leaders to
seek support for the measures, which will be sent to Congress.
The  Finance Ministry  declined to comment in an e-mail.  Rousseff’s approval rating, which stood at 77 percent
according to a March poll by Ibope, makes it easier for the
government to enact changes that opposition politicians have
compared to former President Fernando Collor’s 1990 freezing of
savings accounts, said the official.  The government also plans to announce tomorrow a reduction
of the tax rate charged workers on their earnings from a profit-
sharing program, the official said. The tax break is part of an
effort to boost  consumer spending  and economic growth this year,
the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 