-- Broadband Gap Between Blacks, Whites Narrows, Study Finds
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-05-02T21:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/broadband-gap-between-blacks-whites-narrows-study-finds-1-.html
The gap between black and white
households with high-speed  Internet access  narrowed by almost
half from 2009 to 2010, a  National Urban League Policy Institute 
study found.  Fifty-six percent of black U.S. households and 67 percent
of those of whites had broadband availability two years ago, the
 results  showed. That compares with 46 percent for black
households and 65 percent for white households in 2009.  The Federal Communications Commission under Chairman  Julius Genachowski  has tried to expand access to high-speed  Internet
service . The administration of President  Barack Obama ’s goal is
making broadband available to 98 percent of Americans to
accelerate economic growth and job creation.  The narrowed gap “is an achievement,” said Madura
Wijewardena, the Urban League’s director of research and policy
and a study co-author. “The question is now that they’re on the
on-ramp, do they take the next step?”  The results were tempered because increased access to a
broadband connection in black households may come from expanded
use of handheld wireless devices including smartphones,
researchers said. Those devices may be harder to use than
personal computers for economic improvement tasks like
completing job applications and studying.  “According to the report, 77 percent of African-Americans
have used broadband to search for jobs,” Genachowski said at an
event with the  National Cable and Telecommunications Association  
and the Urban League in Washington. “Without digital
literacy and digital access, finding and landing a job in this
country is virtually impossible” because so much of the hiring
process has moved online.  Wireless Devices  Companies have supported the initiative to expand access to
broadband.  Time Warner Cable (TWC)  Inc. and  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) 
are among providers pledging to supply inexpensive Internet
 service  for poor families with school-age children, and about
5.5 million homes may be eligible to participate starting in the
next school year. Time Warner Cable funded the Urban League
study.  Comcast Corp., the largest U.S. cable company, said in
August it would offer service at $9.95 monthly to poor students
and families. The programs, separate efforts from the study
released today, are to encompass cable providers that offer
broadband service to 86 percent of U.S. households.  While the study showed the gap is narrowing, “it is still
unacceptably high,” said  David Cohen , executive vice president
of Comcast, in a statement.  Job-Training Programs  The study’s findings “can help guide the entire broadband
ecosystem in our effort to connect more Americans to the
powerful economic, social and educational benefits that
broadband offers,”  Michael Powell , president and chief
executive officer of the National Cable and Telecommunications
Association, said in a statement.  The study didn’t quantify the broadband devices black
consumers are using. Black and Hispanic consumers adopt wireless
phones and other handheld devices at proportionately higher
rates than whites, Wijewardena said.  It recommends creating job-training programs in broadband
businesses, more support for black students to improve college
graduation rates and introducing concepts related to using
broadband technology earlier in education curricula.  High-speed Internet, or broadband, access remains a concern
for the most poorly educated black Americans, the report found.  For blacks without a high school diploma and annual
 household income  under $20,000, 38 percent had broadband access,
compared with 51 percent of whites with the same profile.  The Urban League study analyzed data from the Pew Research
Center, the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies and
the Census Bureau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in  Washington  at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  