-- BSkyB Operating Profit Rises on Broadband Internet Customers
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-05-02T07:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/bskyb-operating-profit-rises-on-broadband-internet-customers-1-.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) 
said operating profit in the first nine months rose 20 percent
as the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV operator sold more broadband
connections.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the nine months ended March increased to 1.19
billion pounds ($1.9 billion), the Isleworth, England-based
company said in a statement today. The company added 212,000
broadband clients in the third quarter, compared with Bank of
America Corp.’s estimate for 175,000 broadband customers.  BSkyB, with more than 10 million subscribers, increased
marketing efforts to sell bundled packages that include Internet
broadband, high-definition TV services and telephone
subscriptions. The pay-TV company, in which  Rupert Murdoch ’s
News Corp. owns 39 percent, in March started broadcasting
Formula 1 motor races for the first time.  “Customers are giving more of their business to us than
any other provider,” Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Darroch
said on a conference call today. “Still, six of the nine months
we’ve been in recession, the consumer environment remains
challenging.”  BSkyB rose as much as 2.8 percent to 710 pence in London
trading and was up 2 percent as of 8.08 a.m., valuing the
company at 12 billion pounds.  Web TV Competition  BSkyB is adding new programs as it faces increased
competition from Internet TV offerings after U.S. streaming-
service Netflix Inc. started offering movies and TV shows in the
U.K. this year. BSkyB is also trying to distribute more content
on mobile phones and games consoles, outside its traditional
satellite transmission. Sales in the first nine months rose 5
percent to 5.08 billion pounds.  BSkyB said in July it would buy back 750 million pounds in
shares after  News Corp. (NWSA)  abandoned a 7.8 billion-pound bid for
the rest of the company following a phone-hacking scandal at
Murdoch’s U.K. publishing unit.  BSkyB had risen as high as 850 pence before newspaper
reports in July that News of the World employees intercepted
murder victim Milly Dowler’s voice mails in 2002.  U.K. lawmakers said yesterday that Murdoch was not a “fit
person” to lead a major company, after his British unit misled
Parliament about the extent of phone hacking at its News of the
World tabloid.  The report may increase the likelihood that U.K. regulator
Ofcom concludes News Corp. is unfit to hold a broadcasting
license and ask the company to reduce its 39 percent stake in
BSkyB.  BSkyB said today it is “engaging  with Ofcom in this
process and continues to believe that it remains a fit and
proper license holder.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  