-- Buccaneers Sign Paralyzed Ex-Rutgers Football Player LeGrand
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-02T17:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/buccaneers-sign-paralyzed-ex-rutgers-football-player-legrand.html
Eric LeGrand, the former Rutgers
University football player who was paralyzed from the neck down
during a 2010 game, was signed to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers’ 90-
man offseason roster by coach  Greg Schiano .  Schiano coached LeGrand at Rutgers, where he spent 11
seasons before being hired by the  National Football League ’s
Buccaneers in January. The signing will help LeGrand bring
attention to the issue of spinal cord injuries and the research
to find a cure, the team said.  “Leading up to the draft, I couldn’t help but think that
this should’ve been Eric’s draft class,” Schiano said on the
Buccaneers’ website. “This small gesture is the least we could
do to recognize his character, spirit, and perseverance.”  LeGrand, 21, is in a wheelchair and hasn’t walked in the 19
months since suffering a spinal-cord injury while making a
special teams tackle in an Oct. 16, 2010 game against Army.  “This is honestly a blessing from above,” LeGrand wrote
on his Twitter account, after posting a picture of a Buccaneers’
helmet. He also thanked the team and Schiano for their support
on his  Facebook page .  LeGrand, who was a junior at the time of his injury, in
October started the early stages of therapy to regain the
ability to walk. He also resumed his studies by computer and,
from his wheelchair, led Schiano and the Rutgers football team
onto the field for a 2011 home game against  West Virginia .  LeGrand plans to graduate from Rutgers next fall with a
degree in labor studies and has said he wants to be a sports
broadcaster. He joined the Rutgers sports radio network in
August and has signed with sports marketing firm IMG Worldwide
to help him transition to the broadcasting booth.  “The way Eric lives his life epitomizes what we are
looking for in Buccaneer Men,” Schiano said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  