-- Buffett’s Biggest Bargain May Be Berkshire Hathaway
-- B y   C a r l a   F r i e d
-- 2012-05-02T21:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/buffett-s-biggest-bargain-may-be-berkshire-hathaway.html
     This weekend, 40,000 or so Berkshire Hathaway shareholders
gathering in Omaha for the conglomerate’s annual meeting will
spend plenty of time strolling through the mall of Buffett: a
194,300 square foot retail space set up to ply sundry products
produced by Berkshire’s subsidiaries, including See’s
Candies, Justin Brands western boots and Quickut (Ginsu)
knives.  For deep-discount value seekers among the shopping
crowd, the company stock is what merits a look-see.  Although shares of Berkshire Hathaway have failed to keep
pace with the Standard & Poor’s 500 index over the past three
years, money managers with skin in Berkshire say they are
unfazed and see a compelling risk/reward story ahead.  David Rolfe, chief investment officer at Wedgewood
Partners, has 7.7 percent of client money invested in
Berkshire. He acknowledges the “opportunity cost” to owning
Berkshire shares the past few years, but he says that’s pretty
much par for the course with Berkshire in strong markets -- a
point Buffett has repeatedly made. Rolfe estimates that shares
are trading at a 40 percent discount to their intrinsic value.
“It’s hard to find a more undervalued investment of such
quality,” he says.  Tim Hartch, co-manager of the $1.8 billion BBH Core
Select fund, which has nearly 6 percent of fund assets riding
on Berkshire Hathaway (the fund’s largest holding), calculates
that the recent $120,000 price for the A shares is a sizable
30 percent discount to the per-share intrinsic value of the
firm’s business. (Berkshire’s B shares, with limited voting
rights, trade at $80 a share.) “All companies and all shares
lag from time to time,” says Hartch. “We’re focused on the
underlying businesses and they are doing quite well.”
Besides, he adds, “as a long-term investor what you want is a
low price.”  That’s exactly a point Buffett took time to lay out for
shareholders in this year’s shareholder letter: "Most
people, including those who will be net buyers in the
future, take comfort in seeing stock prices advance. These
shareholders resemble a commuter who rejoices after the price
of gas increases, simply because his tank contains a day’s
supply."  Buffett has long said the goal for Berkshire is for its
per-share gain in intrinsic value to outperform the S&P 500
over time. Calculating intrinsic value is more art than
science, so Buffett uses the more knowable book value (the net
value of a company once liabilities are subtracted from
assets) as a conservative proxy. In last year’s annual
report, Buffett pointed out that in the 42 rolling five-year
periods since he took over the company, Berkshire’s book value
has in fact outpaced the S&P 500 every time. That streak held
up last year as well.  Plan to Repurchase Shares  Investing pros are also bullish on the decision last fall
by Berkshire’s board to greenlight a repurchase plan that will
consider buying company stock when it trades below 110 percent
of book value. That’s well below the 150 percent median
valuation for the past decade.  The stock currently trades at 120 percent of book
value, in spitting distance of when Berkshire will consider
buying back shares, a move that increases the per-share
earnings of remaining shares. “For someone who purchases
today, the company is saying it will step in and repurchase
shares at just 10 percent below its current level,” notes
David Kass, who teaches finance at the Robert Smith School of
Business at the University of Maryland and closely follows
Berkshire.  Wedgewood’s Rolfe dryly notes that with the stock trading
so close to a price at which one of the world’s great
investors says he will consider buying, “I don’t want to be on
the other side of that trade.”  David Winters, manager of the $1.6 billion Wintergreen
value fund, says the stock repurchase plan was a factor in his
recent decision to increase his fund’s Berkshire stake from
about 3 percent of assets to 4.5 percent.  “You’ve got a company that is continuing to grow, with a
stock price that has done nothing for a few years, and now the
company has said it will repurchase at about 10 percent below
today’s price,” says Winters. “There’s almost no downside with
what we think is considerable upside. That’s what we call a
special situation.” Winters says his conservative intrinsic
value for the A shares is $160,000. “And I can get to $180,000
without pushing very hard.”  Buffett’s Succession Plan  Apart from the “we always lag in strong markets” and “we
only care about long-term performance” explanations for the
stock’s recent underperformance, there is also the matter of
what happens after Buffett, 81, ceases to run the show.  To be sure, no one expects the next chairman to be able
to pick up the phone and make near-instantaneous sweetheart
deals, such as Buffett’s $5 billion investment in Goldman
Sachs that paid Berkshire a 10 percent interest rate in the
depths of the 2008 financial crisis, or last year’s $5 billion
investment in Bank of America preferred shares, with a yield
of 6 percent, plus warrants to purchase $700 million in common
stock.  Pat Dorsey, president of Sanibel Captiva Investment
Advisers, acknowledges that concern about Berkshire’s next
generation leadership are “not immaterial,” but he says all
the attention on Buffett’s age and potential successors
obscures the fact that Buffett has spent the past decade
repositioning the company to keep chugging along after he
stops being in charge.  Berkshire is now much less dependent on the performance
of its investment portfolio and more reliant on the operations
of its wholly owned subsidiaries.  It’s a point Buffett has been cheerleading. In last
year’s annual report, he observed that the 10-year compounded
annual per-share growth in investments averaged less than 7
percent through 2010, compared to more than 20 percent in the
1980s, ‘90s and ‘00s. Meanwhile the annual compound growth in
per-share pretax earnings of Berkshire’s non-insurance
businesses increased more than 20 percent during the decade
ending in 2010.  “Buffett has transformed Berkshire from a closed-end fund
to a giant operating company,” says Dorsey, adding that those
wholly-owned subsidiaries won’t stop churning out earnings
once Buffett is no longer at the helm of the holding company.
University of Maryland's Kass also points out that Buffett has
long known what to look for when it he goes shopping. “He
bought companies with durable competitive edges,” says Kass.
“That doesn’t disappear overnight.”  Moreover, Dorsey sees a further potential masterstroke in
Buffett’s recent acquisition of capital-intensive
businesses, something Buffett has always disliked when making
minority investments in other companies’ stock. The ongoing
capital investments needed in railroads (BNSF) and utilities
(MidAmerican Energy) are effective sponges for some of the
hefty cash being generated by all the subsidiaries, further
reducing the company’s reliance on annual decisions as to how
to deploy capital. “That limits the scope of the successor to
screw things up,” says Dorsey. “For Berkshire
shareholders, the next 20 years will be less dependent on the
guy in charge than the last 20 years.”  (Carla Fried is a freelance writer based in California.)  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nikhil
Hutheesing at  nhutheesing@bloomberg.net 
 