-- Burberry Seeks Ruling It’s Not Violating Bogart Trademark
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-05-03T18:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/burberry-seeks-ruling-it-s-not-violating-bogart-trademark.html
Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  and heirs of
Humphrey Bogart have filed lawsuits against each other over an
image of the late actor wearing a Burberry trench coat in the
film “Casablanca.”  Burberry asked a federal court to declare that its use of
Bogart’s name and image in social media doesn’t infringe Bogart
LLC’s trademark rights or rights of publicity, it said in a
complaint filed yesterday in New York.  Bogart LLC, which is majority owned by Bogart’s children,
followed that action by filing a trademark-infringement
complaint yesterday in  California  state court in  Los Angeles .
The company seeks a court order preventing Burberry from using
Bogart’s name and image and unspecified damages.  The London-based fashion company said it licensed from
photo agency Corbis an image of Bogart wearing the trench coat
in the final scene of the 1942 film. The picture was used in a
Burberry historical timeline to indicate the influence of the
brand, according to the complaint. Burberry said the image
wasn’t used to sell merchandise.  “Defendant is attempting to exert and assert against
Burberry rights which it does not possess,” Burberry said in
its complaint. The company said its reference to Bogart in the
timeline is protected under the First Amendment to the U.S.
Constitution.  Burberry said Bogart LLC contacted it in April and ordered
it to cease using the image. Bogart LLC then contacted the
company at least two other times and “made a significant
monetary demand,” Burberry said.  Commercial Link  Burberry’s “use of Bogart intellectual property rights in
their marketing and promotion materials and in products were for
the express purpose of commercially linking their Burberry brand
and products to the persona and character of  Humphrey Bogart  in
the minds of defendants’ potential and actual customers,”
Bogart LLC said in its complaint.  Bogart LLC, according to a news release, is majority-owned
by the children of Bogart and actress  Lauren Bacall .  “This is such an incredibly disappointing and
disrespectful action by Burberry,” Stephen Bogart, the son of
the late actor, said in the release. “What’s next, a cigarette
company can start an advertising program claiming Bogie smoked
its brand, and there’s nothing our family can do about it?”  Bogart, who died in 1957 of cancer, was nominated for an
Academy Award for his role as Rick Blaine, an expatriate
nightclub owner, in “Casablanca.” The film won the Academy
Award for Best Picture.  The federal case is Burberry Ltd. v. Bogart LLC, 12-3491,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).
The state case is Bogart LLC v. Burberry Group, BC483967,
Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  