-- California Heads for Vote on Modified Food Labeling
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-05-02T14:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/california-heads-for-vote-on-modified-food-labeling.html
Californians are on course to vote
whether genetically modified food must be labeled after a
campaign targeting  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and other biotech-crop companies
gathered enough support for a referendum.  A petition was signed by 971,126 people, 75 percent more
than the minimum needed for a statewide vote concurrent with the
Nov. 6 general election, the Oakland-based  California Right to
Know  campaign said today in a statement. State certification of
the signatures followed by approval from 50 percent of voters
would make the proposal law.  “The right to know is as American as apple pie,” Gary Ruskin, an Oakland-based manager for the campaign, said in an
April 30 interview. “Monsanto and some other chemical and
agricultural biotech companies are desperate to keep the public
in the dark about what is really in their food.”  The California movement is mobilizing consumer unease over
modified ingredients, which are found in about 80 percent of
processed foods in the U.S. according to the Grocery
Manufacturers Association. The campaign is the best chance for
biotech labeling in the U.S. after the failure of similar bills
in 19 states and the rejection of a petition to the  Food and
Drug Administration  last month, Ruskin said.  Monsanto opposes labeling modified ingredients because the
move risks “misleading consumers into thinking products are not
safe when in fact they are,” Sara E. Miller, a spokeswoman for
St. Louis-based Monsanto, said in an e-mail.  ‘Back Door’  The initiative is a “back door” way to hurt the $13.3
billion biotech crop industry, according to Richard Lobb,
managing director for the Council for Biotechnology Information.
The Washington-based council represents Monsanto and five other
biotech-seed developers:  DuPont Co. (DD) ,  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ,  Syngenta
AG (SYNN) ,  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  BASF SE. (BAS)   “They basically are trying to scare consumers through
labeling,” Lobb said in a telephone interview. “The obvious
objective is to push biotechnology out of the market
altogether.”  Biotech labeling, which has been adopted in more than  40
countries , has never been endorsed by the FDA. The agency says
crops engineered to tolerate herbicides or produce insecticide
pose no greater health risks than conventional foods.  Modified foods have been in U.S. grocery stores since 1994.
Ninety-three percent of Americans say genetically engineered
foods should be labeled, according to an October 2010  poll 
conducted by Thompson Reuters Corp. and  National Public Radio .
Seventy-nine percent have doubts about the safety of such foods,
according to the poll.  Label Exemptions  Food labels should be reserved for “critically important
 food safety  and nutritional information,” said  Brian Kennedy , a
spokesman for the Grocery Manufacturers Association, which
opposes the California initiative. His group donated $375,000 to
fight the ballot proposal, matching the amount provided by the
Council for Biotechnology Information, according to public
 disclosures .  Should it be approved, the measure would require labels of
foods made with biotech ingredients to state that they were
“produced with genetic engineering.” Labels would be phased in
over 18 months. Exemptions include restaurant food, alcohol and
meat from animals fed with modified grains.  The label “would be the equivalent of a skull and
crossbones” that would drive away customers and force food
producers to stop using engineered ingredients, Joseph Mercola,
the inititive’s leading funder with $800,000 in  donations , said
in an April 1 Web  posting . Mercola is an osteopath who promotes
natural remedies at his clinic in  Hoffman Estates ,  Illinois .  ‘Alleviating Concerns’  Grocers and biotech crop developers should embrace GMO
labeling because it may benefit sales by alleviating concerns
among consumers that engineered foods are being forced on them,
said David Ropeik, a Concord, Massachusetts-based consultant on
risk perception.  “Labeling gives you the feeling of choice,” Ropeik said.
“When you give people choice, it makes them less afraid.”  Chris Shaw , a New York-based analyst at Monness Crespi
Hardt & Co. who recommends selling Monsanto shares, said labels
identifying genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, won’t
change most consumers’ buying decisions.  “People who are buying Oreos aren’t going to care if there
is GMO  soybean oil  in there,” Shaw said. “It’s going to be a
marginal group of people that will care.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  