-- Camargo Correa’s Bid for Cimpor Seems Correct, Borges Says
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-02T11:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/camargo-correa-s-bid-for-cimpor-seems-correct-borges-says-1-.html
Camargo Correa SA’s 2.48 billion-euro
($3.3 billion) bid to buy out Cimpor- Cimentos de Portugal SGPS
SA  seems appropriate and a rival offer for the cement company is
unlikely, a consultant for the  Portuguese government  said.  “The price seemed correct to us,” said  Antonio Borges ,
who is helping monitor the sale of state-owned assets. He spoke
at a parliamentary hearing in Lisbon today. “It is a price that
will allow  Caixa Geral de Depositos  to make a profit.”  A better rival offer is unlikely to take place as more than
50 percent of Cimpor’s shares are already held by two Brazilian
companies, he said.  Camargo Correa, Brazil’s No. 2 construction company, on
March 30 offered 5.50 euros a share to buy the remaining 67
percent of Cimpor it doesn’t already own. Votorantim
Participacoes SA, which competes with Camargo in  Brazil ’s cement
market, owns a 21 percent stake of Cimpor while Portuguese
state-owned bank Caixa Geral de Depositos has a 9.6 percent
stake.  Borges said he expected Votorantim to sell its stake in
Cimpor, adding he was unaware of any deal between Camargo and
Votorantim about Cimpor.  “The expectation is for Votorantim to get out of Cimpor
and surely they will take some assets although that is a matter
that only concerns them,” said Borges.  No Other Buyer  Camargo’s offer was 10 percent higher than Cimpor’s last
price before the bid announcement and Borges said Cimpor’s fair
market value at the time was about 5 euros a share.  “If the price is low why hasn’t another buyer appeared?”
said Borges. “ Portugal  has very little capital and the ability
to keep control of Portugal’s best companies demands
shareholders to be well capitalized, otherwise when a foreign
offer takes place they will sell.”  Semapa-Sociedade de Investimento e Gestao  SGPS SA’s
proposal to Caixa Geral and  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) ’s
pension fund to create a venture that would control their stakes
in Cimpor can’t be considered as an alternative offer, said
Borges.  “It isn’t an offer to buy the company,” said Borges, a
former head of the International Monetary Fund’s European
department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  