-- Camden Rock, Boozy Poirot, Einstein Music: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-05-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/camden-rock-boozy-poirot-einstein-music-london-weekend.html
The Camden Crawl is growing into a
three-day arts event this year starring bands such as Death in
Vegas, Alabama 3, Glasvegas and the Cribs.  The annual north  London  festival is staged in small, packed
bars that host indie acts. The Futureheads, the Raincoats and
Gaz Coombes are also due to play.  If you’d rather bar-hop than stay in one place, you’ll find
comedy and painting events added to the slate this year.  Tickets start at about 40 pounds ($64.66) and soar to 162
for VIP passes, with some already sold out. Information:
 http://www.thecamdencrawl.com/   Market is an unpretentious restaurant in Camden serving
seasonal British food at prices that are low by London
standards. The early-evening set menu is 17.50 pounds ($28.38)
for two courses. Information:  http://www.marketrestaurant.co.uk/ 
or +44-20-7267-9700.  Saturday  A middle-aged sunbather in shades and swimming trunks hangs
sullenly from a gallery wall.  The smaller-than-life figure (“Drift,” 2009) is the work
of ex-puppet-maker Ron Mueck, whose undersized or oversized
sculptures convey a sense of human frailty. The sunbather, on a
floating mattress with outstretched arms, has a Christ-like air
about him.  Three other figures inhabit the gallery, including a pudgy
woman in her birthday suit who carries a huge pile of twigs, and
a black youth with low-hanging jeans who examines the bleeding
wound in his torso.  Ron Mueck ends May 26 at  Hauser & Wirth , Savile Row, W1S
2ET. Information:  http://www.hauserwirth.com  or
+44-207-287-2300.  A short walk away, Fortnum & Mason’s department store
 traces its history  to 1707. It’s a fine place to go for
afternoon tea at the refurbished  Diamond Jubilee Tea Salon ,
opened by the Duchess of Cornwall and the Duchess of Cambridge
on May 1. Information:  http://bit.ly/HeS1H9 .  Saturday Night  Hercule Poirot has dropped the bow tie and shaved the
mustache.  David Suchet -- the actor universally recognized as the
face of “Poirot” in the detective series -- is on the London
stage in Eugene O’Neill’s three-hour “A Long Day’s Journey Into
Night.” He plays a faded star turned alcoholic whose self-
loathing wife is a morphine addict.  Suchet is excellent in the part, as is his onstage wife --
Laurie Metcalf from “Roseanne” -- who gets more and more
tongue-tied as the morphine kicks in.  At the Apollo Theatre on Shaftesbury Avenue. Information:
 http://www.nimaxtheatres.com  or call +44-844-482-9671.  Sunday  They don’t call it Little  Venice  for nothing.  This weekend, dozens of canal boats will get dolled up for
their annual pageant on the waterway near London’s Paddington
district. Live bands, folk dancers and snack stalls will liven
up the free event.  Information:  http://www.waterways.org.uk .  The operatic marathon “Einstein on the Beach,” which made
 Philip Glass  famous, is coming to London -- almost 20 years
after its last production.  The work, featuring synthesizers and woodwinds, tests the
endurance of audience members, who are fortunately able to come
and go during its five-hour running time.  May 4-13, Barbican, Silk Street, EC2Y 8DS. Show times are:
Friday 6:20 p.m., Saturday 5:30 p.m. and Sunday 4 p.m.
Information:  http://www.barbican.org.uk  or +44-20-7638-8891.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include:  Rich Jaroslovsky  on
 technology , Scott Reyburn on art  auctions .  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 