-- Canadians Dominate World’s 10 Strongest Banks
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-05-02T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/canadians-dominate-world-s-10-strongest-banks.html
Banks from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in the U.S.
to  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  in France are racing to shed assets and raise
money ahead of new global capital rules that start taking effect
in 2015. For Canadian lenders, these moves have created the
opportunity to go on a shopping spree.  Canada’s six largest banks have spent $37.8 billion since
2008 on about 100 acquisitions at home and abroad, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its June issue.  “We and our Canadian competitors are only able to do that
because we have some flexibility as a result of our strength,”
says Gerald McCaughey, chief executive officer of Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, which bought JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
minority stake in asset management firm American Century
Investments last year. “Over the longer term, this should
actually help to maintain the strength of the Canadian banking
system and its competitiveness.”  CIBC (CM)  was No. 3 in Bloomberg Markets’ second annual ranking
of the world’s strongest banks, followed by three of its
Canadian rivals:  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  (No. 4),  National Bank of
Canada (NA)  (No. 5) and  Royal Bank of Canada  (No. 6), the country’s
largest lender.  Bank of Nova Scotia  ranked 18th, and  Bank of
Montreal  was 22nd.  OCBC Is No. 1  Singapore’s Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. retained the
title of the world’s strongest bank for the second year,
followed by  BOC Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. (2388)  Two other Singaporean
lenders --  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  (No. 7) and  DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  (No. 8) -- were also among the strongest.
“Singapore’s economy has performed quite stably and quite well,
and for the Singaporean banks, we have real economic activities
to finance,” Oversea-Chinese Banking CEO Samuel Tsien says. He
credits the bank’s strength partly to its risk management
practices.  No other country dominated the list as did Canada: The
nation of 34.7 million people has only eight publicly traded
banks, two of which are regional lenders. Only three U.S. banks
--  JPMorgan Chase (JPM)  (No. 13),  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) 
(No. 17) and  BB&T Corp. (BBT)  (No. 20) -- made the top 20. Four
European banks were included: two from Sweden and one each from
the U.K. and Switzerland.  $100 Billion or More  For the ranking, we considered only banks with at least
$100 billion in assets. We weighed and combined five criteria,
comparing Tier 1 capital with risk-weighted assets, for example,
and nonperforming assets with total assets. Tier 1 capital
includes a bank’s cash reserves, outstanding common stock and
some classes of preferred stock, all of which combine to act as
a buffer against losses.  Banks that posted an annual loss for last year or that
failed government stress tests weren’t eligible for
consideration.  Canadian banks invoke their strong capital levels, the
country’s conservative lending culture and strict regulatory
oversight under a single supervisor as reasons for their
showing. The supervisor requires Canadian banks to hold a higher
level of capital than do international standards.  Major banks around the world follow the rules of the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision -- an arm of the Bank for
International Settlements, based in Basel, Switzerland, that
draws banking regulators from 27 nations to set standards for
lenders. The committee issued its first internationally accepted
 capital guidelines  in 1988.  Beyond Basel  Those rules, known as Basel I, focused on credit risk: the
possibility that borrowers might not pay back their bank loans.
The committee required banks to hold total capital, at least
half of it in Tier 1 capital, equal to at least 8 percent of
their risk-weighted assets.  Canada’s regulator, the  Office of the Superintendent of
Financial Institutions Canada , has gone beyond those levels in
its requirements, a stance that has shielded lenders from some
of the financial follies that undermined other global banks,
especially in 2008. As far back as January 1999, OSFI sent a
letter to Canadian banks telling them to set aside at least 10
percent of total capital as a cushion for losses. “I do not
think it was popular at the time,” says Julie Dickson, OSFI’s
superintendent. “That’s where having a supervisor with a pretty
clear mandate allows you to take those unpopular decisions.”  Exceeding Requirements  The Canadian regulator also set criteria on the quality of
banks’ assets, requiring them to hold 75 percent of their
capital in equity. “When the crisis erupted, we realized we had
stuck to a fairly basic rule, which was that the bulk of Tier 1
capital had to be in equity,” Dickson says. “That turned out to
be very, very important.”  Some of Canada’s lenders elected to exceed OSFI’s
requirements. Investors criticized  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , CEO
 Richard Waugh  says, for holding too much cash. “So many people
in 1999 and 2001 said: ‘Scotia, you’ve got excess capital
because you’re way above Basel, way above OSFI. You should do
stock buybacks and extra  dividends ,’” Waugh recalls in an
interview at an annual investor meeting in Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan. “We said, ‘It’s not excess, because it was getting
18 percent return on capital, which was a very good place, and
our shareholders would have had a difficult time reinvesting
elsewhere.’”  Waugh credits the high returns to profits spread equally
among four main businesses: global wealth management and
domestic, international and wholesale banking.  Internal Models  Since 1988, the BIS has further tweaked global rules. The
2004 Basel II accord set more guidelines on how to address and
quantify the risks of a bank’s assets -- allowing them to use
internal models, for instance.  And in 2010, regulators rewrote the rules again to address
shortcomings that arose out of the financial crisis. The group
will require banks to hold 7 percent of their assets as core
reserves, or equity core Tier 1 capital, by 2019 when the latest
rules -- known as Basel III -- are fully implemented. Banks will
be required to have minimum Tier 1 capital of 6 percent starting
in 2015.  While having strong capital is crucial, Canadian banks will
prosper only if they can expand their reach, Waugh says.
“Because if you don’t grow, you’re going to eventually have some
issues on capital and strength,” he says. Scotiabank has units
in about 50 countries and is looking in particular at  Latin
America  and Asia, says Waugh, who’s also vice chairman of the
Washington-based  Institute of International Finance .  Expanding in the U.S.  Canadian banks spent $14.4 billion last year on
acquisitions, many of them aimed at growth in the U.S. “Having
conservative capital standards in Canada going into the downturn
clearly was a competitive advantage,” TD Bank CEO  Edmund Clark 
says. He says Canada’s second-biggest bank was ferocious at
managing liquidity.  TD Bank has accelerated a U.S. expansion strategy that
Clark began in 2004. In 2008, the bank took over Commerce
Bancorp of Cherry Hill,  New Jersey , in a $7.1 billion transaction
that helped give the Canadian lender 1,284 branches in the U.S.
today -- more than the 1,150 it currently has in Canada. TD’s
green logo is now a common sight on the streets of  New York ,
where it aims to become the city’s third-largest lender by
number of branches within four years, and in Boston, where its
name adorns the TD Garden, home to the Boston Celtics basketball
team and Boston Bruins hockey team.  ‘Once-in-a-lifetime Opportunity’  “We were in there and said: ‘We have a once-in-a-lifetime
opportunity. Let’s take advantage of it,’” Clark says. Toronto-
Dominion -- one of four banks globally to boast the top Aaa
long-term debt rating from Moody’s Investors Service -- added
further to its U.S. clout last year when it acquired auto lender
Chrysler Financial Corp. from Cerberus Capital Management LP.  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , Canada’s fourth-largest lender, also
ramped up its presence in the U.S. by buying Marshall & Ilsley
Corp., a Milwaukee-based bank, last year for $4.19 billion.
Prior to that, its main U.S. asset had been the small Chicago-
based Harris Bank franchise it bought in 1984.  Royal Bank has also been active. In April, it agreed to buy
the 50 percent of RBC Dexia Investor Services Ltd. it didn’t
already own from Banque Internationale a Luxembourg SA for about
C$1.1 billion ($1.1 billion) in cash.  As they flex their muscles with acquisitions, Canadian
banks may face tougher times ahead. Consumer lending is slowing
this year. RBC Capital Markets predicts that Canadian bank
profits will rise 7 percent in 2012, slightly more than half the
13 percent rate in 2011.  Stocks Outperform  Canadian bank stocks have outperformed those from south of
the border. In the four years ended on Dec. 31, the Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite  Commercial Banks Industry Index (STCBNK)  that tracks
Canada’s eight traded banks rose 4.8 percent compared with a 56
percent decline for the 24-member  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , which includes
the biggest U.S. banks.  Canadian banks haven’t been completely immune to the woes
faced by their counterparts in the U.S. and Europe in recent
years. CIBC had more than C$10 billion in writedowns following
the U.S. mortgage-related financial crisis of 2007, more than
any other Canadian bank. CIBC also was one of the first to
rebuild its balance sheet, selling C$2.94 billion of stock nine
months before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed and
markets seized up. Still, writedowns at Canadian banks were a
fraction of the $2.08 trillion taken by financial companies
worldwide.  There’s no reason for Canadian banks to become smug, the
country’s banking regulator says. “Complacency is a real danger
for Canada,” OSFI’s Dickson says. “The bar is always rising in
risk management, and if you become complacent, you may say
you’re doing a good enough job and you don’t really have to
change anything.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ; Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at   spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Laura Colby
at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 