-- Canadian Dollar Gains Versus Euro on Divergent Economies
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-02T21:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/canadian-dollar-drops-as-stock-futures-fall-before-data.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened for a
second day versus the euro after manufacturing in the 17-nation
region shrank for a ninth month, signaling the region’s economic
malaise is deepening.  The Canadian currency advanced 0.5 percent during the past
month, third-most among 10 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, on speculation the North American
economy will fare better than other developed regions. Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney  reiterated yesterday that higher
interest rates “may become appropriate” as growth firms.  “Carney is certainly an island now; he’s the last of the
hawks,”  Dean Popplewell , chief strategist in Toronto at the
online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp., said in an interview
at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York . “We’ll certainly see a
hike by the beginning of next year.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, rose 0.5 percent
to C$1.2979 per euro at 5 p.m. in Toronto, touching the
strongest since April 18. It was little changed at 98.63 cents
per  U.S. dollar . One Canadian dollar buys $1.0139.  The currency has strengthened 1.4 percent this year against
the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The U.S.
dollar is off 2.4 percent and the yen is down 6.8 percent.  Bonds Rise  Government bonds  rose, pushing the two-year  yield  down two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.31 percent, the
third straight decline, as the price of the 0.75 percent
securities due May 2014 increased three cents to C$98.92.  Canadian two-year bonds yielded 1.05 percentage points more
than equivalent-maturity U.S. Treasuries, the least since April
16, the day before Bank of Canada policy makers suggested
 interest rates  may be rising as domestic economic growth and
inflation exceeds forecasts.  Canada sold C$2.6 billion ($2.6 billion) of 10-year bonds.
The 2.75 percent securities due in June 2022 drew an average
yield of 2.096 percent, with a bid to cover ratio -- the amount
bid relative to the amount on offer --of 2.5 times, according to
the central bank’s website. The previous auction of 10-year
bonds, on Feb. 1, drew an average yield of 2.015 percent and a
coverage ratio of 2.31 times.  A manufacturing gauge in the euro region fell to 45.9 in
April, a 34-month low, from 47.7 in March,  Markit Economics  said
today. Readings below 50 indicate contraction. The report also
indicated that job losses at factories increased and there was
“weak” demand from both domestic and export customers.  Economic Data  “The markets are reacting to the PMI numbers that were a
disappointment across the board,” said  Jack Spitz , managing
director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA)  in
Toronto, in a telephone interview, referring to the European
manufacturing data. “The Canadian dollar will be influenced by
the broader sense of global risk, and by global and U.S.
economic data,”  The loonie lost as much as 0.5 percent against the
greenback earlier after figures from Roseland, New Jersey-based
ADP Employer Services showed U.S. companies added 119,000
workers in April, the fewest in seven months. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a
170,000 advance.  “The weaker-than-expected ADP report sparked a modest
retreat for the Canadian dollar,” said Blake Jespersen,
director of foreign exchange in Toronto at Bank of Montreal’s
BMO Capital Markets unit, in an e-mail. “The bias now is for a
weaker Canadian dollar tomorrow on expectations of a lower non-
farm payroll number.”  Canada ships about three quarters of its  exports  to the
U.S., the world’s largest economy.  Jobs Numbers  U.S. employers added 160,000 workers to payrolls in April,
based on the median of 80 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. The
Labor Department is due to release the report on May 4.  “The Canadian dollar is going to be influenced by Friday’s
payroll number,” said National Bank’s Spitz. “Funds continue
to be supported above 98 cents and offered below parity,” he
said, referring to the U.S.-Canada exchange rate.  The loonie, which traded as low as C$1.0319 in January,
will weaken to parity with its U.S. counterpart by the end of
June before strengthening to 98 cents at year-end, according to
the median of 40 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  