-- Carlyle Weighs Lower IPO Price at Discount to Blackstone
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-05-02T15:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/carlyle-consults-buyout-playbook-to-price-ipo-at-62-discount.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG)  may cut the price of
its initial share sale as it seeks to replicate the performance
of companies it has taken public and emerge as the only U.S.
buyout firm trading above its offering level.  The Washington-based private equity manager plans to sell
shares for $22 to $23 each after seeking $23 to $25, said two
people with knowledge of the matter, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  Carlyle deepened the discount it’s offering relative to
rival  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  even after co-founder  David Rubenstein 
told prospective investors in New York last week the deal is
designed to maximize returns for buyers. The firm has enough
orders to cover the sale at $23, and may price lower to boost
the chance of a first-day gain, the people said.  “It’s a little bit of a harder sell than in the past,”
said Tim Loughran, a finance professor at the University of
 Notre Dame ’s Mendoza College of Business in Notre Dame,  Indiana .
“If private equity had been doing so well they wouldn’t have to
be doing this discount to get people interested.”  At the new midpoint, Carlyle would be valued at $6.85
billion, or about 7.8 times last year’s distributable earnings
of $881.6 million, adjusted for the effects of the IPO and last
year’s acquisition of AlpInvest Partners NV, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s a 64 percent discount to Blackstone,
which trades at about 22 times its 2011 distributable earnings
of $696.7 million. The earnings measure largely reflects profits
made from selling companies owned through buyout funds.  Founders Keeping Stakes  Rubenstein and co-founders Bill Conway and  Daniel D’Aniello , who started the firm 25 years ago, aren’t selling any
of their personal holdings in the IPO. Each will own about 15
percent of the firm following the offering, or about 47 million
shares. Those stakes would each be worth $1.06 billion at the
midpoint of the new range.  Carlyle has touted its record of taking companies public in
private discussions with investors, according to a person
familiar with the meetings. Seven of the 11 U.S. IPOs the firm
led for portfolio companies since 2010 are trading above their
initial prices.  Carlyle’s Discount  Knowing how to gauge  market sentiment  may help Carlyle pull
off the sale, said Richard Marin, head of mortgage restructuring
firm Ironwood Global LLC and the former chief executive officer
of Bear Stearns Asset Management.  “They should know better than most what it takes to
interest investors,” Marin said. “Whether or not they know how
to follow through on it and make the stock perform is a
different question.”  Carlyle-backed companies such as  Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN) 
and Nielsen Holdings NV gained 74 percent and 27 percent,
respectively, through yesterday since their IPOs and rose 38
percent and 13 in the 30 days after going public, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The 11 companies that Carlyle has
taken public in the U.S. since 2010 gained an average of 4.5
percentage points more than the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  in
the first 30 days after their debuts, Bloomberg data show.  By offering a discount, the firm is looking to avoid the
fate of Blackstone and  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , whose
stocks have tumbled since share sales in 2007 and 2011, and more
recently, of Oaktree Capital Group LLC, which has declined about
6 percent from its debut last month after the distressed-debt
investment firm slashed the size of the sale.  Steep Declines  Investors have struggled with how to value publicly traded
private equity firms partly because their earnings are hard to
predict, with the bulk coming from buyout funds that sell assets
at various times. Carlyle has argued that investors should judge
the firm on distributable earnings.  Carlyle’s fee-related earnings, a key metric for public
investors that excludes a firm’s cut of profits from buyout
investments, have lagged behind those of Blackstone and  KKR &
Co. (KKR)  during the past three years. Carlyle also depends on private
equity for more than half of its revenue, compared with almost
18 percent at Blackstone.  While private equity firms have worked to grow beyond
leveraged buyouts, Blackstone had declined by 56 percent through
yesterday since raising $4.75 billion in a 2007 IPO. The same
year,  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  and  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC  held their own U.S. IPOs and had since lost
80 percent and 72 percent. Apollo, whose shares were previously
traded on a private exchange run by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
held a $565 million U.S. share sale in March and had lost 32
percent since then.  Seeking ’Kick’  The exception is KKR, which had gained 35 percent through
yesterday since moving its listing to the U.S. from Amsterdam in
July 2010. The company didn’t hold an IPO, choosing instead to
combine with its publicly traded European fund.  Carlyle is making about 10 percent of itself public in the
deal and plans to list on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol CG. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and Credit
Suisse Group AG are leading the offering, whose proceeds will go
toward paying off  debt .  “They’re working really hard to reassure investors,
especially by saying the founders won’t cash out right away,”
Douglas Kelly, a  Santa Monica , California-based analyst at
IBISWorld Inc., said in a telephone interview. “The marketplace
has proved pretty unreceptive to alternative-asset firms going
public, so it’s in their interest to price it low on hopes that
there’s some kind of kick coming out the other end.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  