-- Carlyle Little Changed in Trading Debut After Price Cut
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-05-03T21:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/carlyle-raises-671-million-in-ipo-12-less-than-it-sought.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s second-
largest private-equity firm, failed to provide investors with
the big first-day trading gain it was seeking after pricing its
initial public offering at a discount to rivals.  The stock, priced at $22 a share in the IPO, less than
Carlyle initially sought, closed at $22.05, a gain of less than
1 percent. It was a blow to the company and its underwriters,
which sought to avoid the fate of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO)  and other alternative-asset managers whose
stocks have tumbled in public trading.  The firm raised $671 million by selling 30.5 million shares
at $22 each, according to a statement yesterday. The price for
Washington-based Carlyle, which had offered the shares for $23
to $25, represents a 65 percent discount to larger rival
Blackstone.  Investors have struggled with how to value private-equity
firms partly because their earnings are hard to predict, with
the bulk coming from buyout funds that sell assets at various
times.  “Private-equity firms in general struggle with initial
public offerings mainly because of the way their business is
structured, and Carlyle is no different,” Thomas Murphy, a
partner in the law firm of McDermott Will & Emery LLP, said in a
telephone interview from  Chicago . “The market has just not been
receptive to managers taking themselves public.”  Growing ‘Long Term’  David Rubenstein , Carlyle’s co-founder and co-chief
executive officer, said in an e-mailed statement that he thinks
the firm accomplished its objective in the IPO.  “Our principal focus in the offering was to attract a
large number of highly respected institutional investors who
support our emphasis on cash earnings and who will support our
efforts to grow the firm over the long term,” Rubenstein said.  Carlyle, which oversees $147 billion in assets, sold about
a 10 percent stake and is listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market
under the symbol CG. The IPO price values the firm at $6.7
billion, or 7.6 times last year’s distributable earnings of
$881.6 million, adjusted for the effects of the IPO and the
acquisition of AlpInvest Partners NV, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Blackstone, by comparison, has a market value of $14.6
billion, or about 21 times its 2011 distributable earnings of
$696.7 million. The earnings measure largely reflects profits
made from selling companies owned through buyout funds.  Peers’ Performance  Carlyle’s peers have almost universally lost money for
investors.  Blackstone, based in  New York , has declined 58 percent
since raising $4.75 billion in a 2007 IPO.  Fortress Investment
Group LLC (FIG)  and  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC (OZM) , which held
their own U.S. IPOs that year, have since lost 80 percent and 74
percent. Apollo, whose shares were previously traded on a
private exchange run by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., held a $565
million U.S. share sale in March 2011 and has lost 35 percent
since then.  “It hasn’t been an easy road for private equity,”  Reena Aggarwal , a finance professor at  Georgetown University ’s
McDonough School of Business in  Washington , said in a telephone
interview. “The firms are getting pressured on fees, they’re
getting pressured on fundraising and they have dry powder that
investors want them to invest.”  The exception is  KKR & Co. (KKR) , which has gained 29 percent
since moving its listing to the U.S. from Amsterdam in July
2010. The company didn’t hold an IPO, choosing instead to
combine with its publicly traded European fund.  Dunkin’, Nielsen  In marketing its deal, Carlyle had touted its record of
taking companies public in private discussions with investors,
according to a person familiar with the meetings. Seven of the
11 U.S. IPOs the firm led for portfolio companies since 2010 are
trading above their initial prices.  As of yesterday, Carlyle-backed companies such as  Dunkin’
Brands Group Inc. (DNKN)  and Nielsen Holdings NV had gained 72 percent
and 27 percent, respectively, since their IPOs and rose 38
percent and 13 in the 30 days after going public, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The 11 companies that Carlyle has
taken public in the U.S. since 2010 gained an average of 4.5
percentage points more than the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  in
the first 30 days after their debuts, Bloomberg data show.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse
Group AG led Carlyle’s offering, whose proceeds will go toward
paying off debt.  Co-founders David Rubenstein, Bill Conway and  Daniel D’Aniello , who started the firm 25 years ago, didn’t plan to
sell any of their personal holdings in the IPO. Each was to own
about 15 percent of the firm following the offering, or about 47
million shares, according to a  regulatory filing . Those stakes
are now worth $1.04 billion apiece.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  