-- Cezanne, Matisse Tie at $19 Million in Christie’s Sale
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-05-02T02:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/cezanne-matisse-tie-at-19-million-in-christie-s-sale.html
Christie’s International  held its
smallest  New York  evening Impressionist and modern art sale in 2
1/2 years, at the outset of an auction fortnight expected to
total as much as $1.5 billion.  Last night’s sale tallied $117.1 million, in the middle of
the presale range of $90.5 million to $130.2 million. Three of
the 31 lots failed to sell in an auction of less than an hour,
the quickest in years.  Two paintings tied for top lot, at $19.1 million: Paul Cezanne’s watercolor “Joueur de Cartes” (“Card Player”) and
a lush flower bouquet painted by  Henri Matisse  in 1907, “Les
Pivoines.”  Christie’s equivalent auction in November had 82 lots and
tallied $140.8 million.  “We all know it’s very difficult to get great
Impressionist and modern work,” said New York art dealer Asher Edelman. “The contemporary options are much better.”  The Cezanne came from the estate of Texas collector Heinz
Felix Eichenwald and landed near the high estimate of $20
million, with commission. It’s one of seven drawings and
watercolors known to exist that Cezanne made as studies for his
five famous “Card Players” paintings.  In February, Vanity Fair magazine  reported  that the royal
family of Qatar paid more than $250 million for the “Card
Players” owned by the late Greek shipping magnate George Embiricos. The four other versions are in museum collections.  Met Show  Last year, the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art in New York
dedicated an exhibition to the creation of the series, uniting
for the first time the paintings and the studies.  The Matisse, with a rich exhibition history that includes
the Venice Biennale in 1950 and museums throughout  Europe ,
surged past its $12 million high estimate.  The sale included six paintings by  Pablo Picasso , all but
one landed among the 10 priciest lots of the evening.  The group was led by a jewel-like 1932 portrait “Le
Repos,” depicting his muse and lover Marie-Therese Walter. It
fetched $9.9 million, above the $7 million high estimate.  His “Femme Assise” fetched $5.2 million, topping the $3.5
million high estimate. Dated March 31, 1953, it shows a woman in
a green top, probably Francoise Gilot, who left him that month.
Gilot’s life with Picasso, from 1943 to 1953, is the subject of
an exhibition at Gagosian gallery that opens today.  Claude Monet ’s hazy 1894 landscape with haystacks, “Les
Demoiselles de Giverny,” sold for $9.6 million, just over the
low estimate of $9 million.  Not Exciting  “It wasn’t a tremendously exciting sale except for one or
two things,” art dealer David Nash said.  Buyers may have been conserving resources for tonight.
 Sotheby’s (BID)  Impressionist and modern art sale stars a version of
Edvard Munch’s “The Scream,” estimated at more than $80
million.  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Greg
Evans  on film.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 