-- CFTC Votes, Asset Encumbrance, Finra-ETF Fines: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-05-02T12:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/cftc-votes-finra-etf-fines-asset-encumbrance-compliance.html
The Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said yesterday that it will clarify indemnification
and confidentiality provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act.  The proposed interpretation generally exempts foreign
regulators from the two provisions and ensures foreign
regulators will have access to data in Swap Data Repositories,
or SDRs.  The exemption only applies to data that is required to be
reported and if the SDR is recognized by the country’s law and
regulations, according to a CFTC statement. The commission said
it passed the proposal in a 5-0 vote.  The CFTC will seek public comment on the proposed
interpretation, it said in the statement. The comment period
will be open for 30 days from the date of publication in the
Federal Register.  Compliance Policy  Bank Encumbrance Limit to Face Europe Opposition, Fitch Says  European governments may be unwilling to impose a limit on
so-called asset encumbrance as part of any future bank rescue
legislation because of the potential damage to the covered  bond
market , according to  Fitch Ratings .  The main casualties would be specialist covered bond
issuers in France, Germany and Scandinavia as well as banks in
southern Europe that have become dependent on central bank
financing, Fitch said. High levels of encumbrance may also be
due to the way a nation’s finance industry is structured, rather
than a sign of stress, according to Fitch.  Banks that encumber their balance sheets by tying up assets
as collateral for securities such as covered bonds or in
repurchase agreements, or repos, with central banks, have fewer
available to meet claims if an institution fails. The
 International Monetary Fund  in a report last week suggested that
lenders should be required to hold a minimum quantity of
unsecured debt that could be swapped into equity, or bailed in,
to avoid a disorderly default.  While Scandinavian and German banks are “among the biggest
issuers” of covered bonds, the portion of their balance sheets
pledged as collateral isn’t rising and in some cases is even
falling, Fitch said.  EU Bank Capital Agreement Sought in Clash Over Basel Rules  European Union finance ministers are seeking to overcome a
clash on how governments can force lenders to set aside capital
above the minimum required by international accords.  Nations are divided over proposals by Michel Barnier, the
EU’s financial services chief, to fix banks’ core capital
requirements at 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets, with
limited exceptions for national regulators to set higher
thresholds. Barnier proposed the limit in 2011 as part of a
draft law to apply rules agreed on by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision.  The U.K., Spain and Sweden are among countries warning that
Barnier’s plan would restrain national regulators. Others,
including France, Italy and Austria, have backed the
commissioner’s approach. EU finance chiefs meeting in Brussels
today are also debating how to assign risk and define safety
buffers when evaluating bank balance sheets. If they can’t reach
an agreement, they’ll return to the issue at their next
scheduled meeting on May 15.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said as he
entered today’s meeting that he doubts the group will reach an
agreement today. While the conflicts are “not so great,” the
details are complicated, he said.  For more, click here.  Offshore CLOs Should Be Exempt From IRS Tax Claims, LSTA Says  An industry group is calling on regulators to exempt
existing collateralized loan obligations from foreign tax
reporting requirements, saying the rules might lead to a
“market disruption” for hundreds of billions of dollars of
assets in the market.  Offshore CLOs may be hit with a 30 percent withholding tax
because of their inability to meet requirements under the
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act of 2010, the  Loan
Syndications and Trading Association  said yesterday in a
statement.  CLOs, a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
loans and slice them into securities of varying risk and return,
help finance mergers and acquisitions and corporate growth
strategies.  FATCA  requires foreign banks and other financial entities
to provide information about their U.S. customers to the
Internal Revenue Service so the government can collect taxes.
Under the regulation, CLOs maybe be subject to a 30 percent tax
withholding on loan interest, principal payments or sale
proceeds.  The measures regulators have taken to address the LSTA’s
concerns, including an exemption for loans and portions of CLO
debt issued before Jan. 1, 2013, fall short, according to
yesterday’s statement.  Saudi Arabia May Set Up Housing Bank, Al Sharq Reports  Saudi Arabia may establish a bank to provide finance for
housing, Al Sharq reported, citing Adnan Ghosheh, the executive
director of national housing strategy at the Housing Ministry.  The Real Estate Development Fund has received 2.3 million
applications for loans, the newspaper said, citing Mohammed al-
Abadani, the fund’s director.  Compliance Action  Finra Fines Wells Fargo, Three Other Firms Over ETF Sales  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Morgan Stanley,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  agreed to pay a combined $9.1 million to settle regulatory
claims they failed to adequately supervise the sale of leveraged
and inverse exchange-traded funds in 2008 and 2009.  The firms also didn’t have a reasonable basis for
recommending the securities to their clients, the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority said yesterday in a statement.
They will pay fines of about $7.3 million and reimburse $1.8
million to customers.  Finra warned brokers in June 2009 that leveraged and
inverse ETFs were difficult to understand and not a good fit for
long-term investors. ETFs typically mimic indexes and trade
throughout the day like stocks. Leveraged versions use swaps or
derivatives to amplify daily index returns, while the inverse
funds are designed to move in the opposite direction of their
benchmark.  Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , was assessed the
highest fine at $2.1 million and must pay $641,489 in
restitution. Citigroup, based in  New York , received a
$2 million fine and must pay $146,431 in restitution; New York-
based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  will pay a $1.75 million fine and $604,584
in restitution; and Zurich-based UBS will pay a
$1.5 million fine and $431,488 in restitution.  In settling the claims, the firms neither admitted nor
denied the charges, said Washington-based Finra, the brokerage
industry’s self-funded regulator.  “UBS is pleased to have resolved this FINRA matter,”
spokeswoman  Karina Byrne  said in an e-mailed statement. “More
than two years ago, UBS developed and implemented enhanced
training, suitability and supervisory policies and procedures
regarding leveraged, inverse, and inverse-leveraged ETFs.”  “Morgan Stanley strives for high standards of supervision
and is pleased to settle this matter, which pertains to
investments sold three to four years ago,” spokesman James
Wiggins said in an e-mailed statement. “Since 2009, we
substantially limited our sale of these specific types of
investments and enhanced our tools to supervise them.”  “We are pleased to have this matter resolved,” Citigroup
spokeswoman Liz Fogarty said in an e-mailed statement. A
representative for Wells Fargo couldn’t immediately be reached.  Bank Errors Cited in Fannie Mae Principal-Reduction Test Failure  Wells Fargo & Co. employees ruined a pilot program to test
principal reductions on mortgages guaranteed by Fannie Mae
because they failed to correctly input data into a computer
system, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  said in a letter
released yesterday.  Details of the failed program came as Democratic lawmakers
attempted to boost pressure on the FHFA to allow writedowns of
principal on mortgages guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Edward J. DeMarco, the acting director of the FHFA, has barred
the taxpayer-owned companies from reducing principal on
seriously delinquent loans on the grounds that it would hurt
their bottom line.  The FHFA is calculating whether changing the policy makes
sense in light of new financial incentives the U.S. Treasury
Department is offering the companies to forgive principal,
DeMarco said in a letter to Representative  Elijah Cummings , a
Maryland Democrat, and Representative John Tierney, a
Massachusetts Democrat.  The two lawmakers said earlier in the day that an FHFA
internal study found that a pilot program on principal
reductions would save money for the taxpayer-owned companies,
but was killed for ideological reasons. DeMarco said the two
Democrats were wrong and defended the FHFA’s work.  DeMarco also released an April 12 letter that he sent the
lawmakers outlining the details of two Fannie Mae pilot
programs. Both programs were terminated before results could be
evaluated, he said.  For more, click here.  Collateral Protects 84 Percent of OTC Derivatives, ISDA Says  The percentage of private derivatives trades protected by
collateral in the $708 trillion market rose to 84 percent,
according to the  International Swaps and Derivatives
Association .  That’s up from 80 percent of trades that were backed by
cash or other assets in last year’s study, New York-based ISDA
said in a  statement  yesterday. About $3.6 trillion in collateral
backed trades in the market at the end of 2011, up from $2.9
trillion a year earlier, ISDA said.  About 76 percent of the collateral is in cash, with the
remainder in government securities or other assets, ISDA said.  UBS to Pay $27 Million Over SEC Mutual Fund Disclosure Claims  UBS AG (UBS)  will pay $26.6 million to resolve U.S. regulatory
claims against its Puerto Rico-based brokerage unit, UBS
Financial Services Inc. of Puerto Rico.  The Securities and Exchange Commission claimed the unit
sold shares in mutual funds without disclosing that it was
propping up the price of the funds in the secondary market. The
$26.6 million will be placed into a fund for harmed investors,
the SEC said.  The SEC instituted contested administrative proceedings
against UBS Puerto Rico’s vice chairman and former chief
executive officer, Miguel A. Ferrer, and its head of capital
markets, Carlos J. Ortiz.  A phone call to Melvin Brosterman, Ferrer’s attorney,
wasn’t immediately returned.  Ortiz said in an e-mailed statement that the SEC’s
allegations are “wholly without merit.”  “Investors who bought Fund shares during this period and
continue to hold them have made substantial returns over the
past three years,” UBS spokeswoman Karina Byrne said in an e-
mailed statement. “We believe that any realized losses incurred
by investors who bought Fund shares through UBS during the
2008/2009 period and sold them were less than $5 million.”  Courts  LG Display Settles Price-Fixing Claims With Eight U.S. States  LG Display Co. (034220)  reached a settlement with eight U.S. states
and consumers over claims that the company colluded with other
makers of liquid-crystal displays to fix prices.  The company said May 1 in a  regulatory filing  that it
reached an agreement in principle with a class of so-called
indirect purchasers and with the attorneys general of Arkansas,
California, Florida, Michigan, Missouri, New York, West Virginia
and Wisconsin. Terms of the settlement, which must be approved
by a judge, weren’t disclosed.  The settlement doesn’t resolve claims by Illinois,
Mississippi, Oklahoma, Oregon,  South Carolina  and Washington,
according to the filing.  Bong-Soo Lee, a spokesman for Seoul-based LG Display,
didn’t immediately respond May 1 to an e-mail seeking comment on
the terms of the settlements. Brad Brian, a Los Angeles-based
lawyer for the company, didn’t immediately return a call to his
office.  The case is In Re TFT-LCD (Flat Panel) Antitrust
Litigation, 07-01827, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  Interviews/Speeches  Garrett, Wolin, Levitt on Financial Markets Regulations  U.S. Representative Scott Garrett, a New Jersey Republican,
Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin and Arthur Levitt, former
chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
participated in a panel discussion on the financial crisis and
market regulation.  Peter Cook moderated the panel at the  Bloomberg Link 
Washington Summit.  For the video, click here.  Wells Fargo to Gain as Capital Rules Limit JPMorgan, CFO Says  Wells Fargo & Co., the fourth-largest U.S. bank by assets,
could have a “competitive advantage” as bigger lenders are
required to hold more funds, Chief Financial Officer Tim Sloan
said.  Sloan made the remarks at a conference in Boston yesterday.  Regulators are planning to impose capital rules that will
use a sliding scale based on a bank’s size and links to other
lenders in an effort to build buffers against losses. Sloan was
asked yesterday at the conference whether Wells Fargo might gain
as lenders with larger balance sheets, such as  Bank of America
Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , adjust to the standards.  “I think we will have an advantage to any firm that’s
going to have more capital than we do,” Sloan said.  Wells Fargo has grown in U.S. mortgage lending and struck
deals for acquisitions including Merlin Securities LLC and  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP) ’s North American energy-lending business after
posting a record annual profit last year.  “There’s no question that the environment in Europe and
the capital constraints that those financial institutions have
has created an opportunity for us to purchase mostly U.S.,
dollar-denominated assets,” Sloan said.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan 
and JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon have said that excessive capital
surcharges on the largest banks could limit lending.  Swaps Rules Cut Risks as Others Need Work, ISDA’s O’Connor Says  Reforms to the $708 trillion private derivatives market are
reducing systemic risk while some rules need more work before
being implemented, said  Stephen O’Connor , chairman of the
 International Swaps and Derivatives Association .  O’Conner, who is Morgan Stanley’s global head of over-the-
counter client clearing, said at ISDA’s annual meeting yesterday
in Chicago that there is serious concern’’ about some of the
policies underway related to Dodd-Frank Act that toughens
oversight of the market. He cited differences between new swaps
rules in Europe and the U.S., known as extraterritoriality, and
mandated electronic execution for swaps as issues the industry
wants to address.  Banks,  hedge funds  and asset managers active in the over-
the-counter  derivatives market  are adapting to changes mandated
by the Dodd Frank Act passed by Congress in 2010, including a
requirement to process most swaps with a clearinghouse to cut
counterparty risk. While embracing measures to adopt clearing,
the industry group has opposed requirements that any cleared
swap be traded on exchanges or similar electronic systems.  “There’s little to suggest it will benefit users,”
O’Connor said, referring to ISDA research that found that
requiring electronic trading would reduce trading and increase
the gap in prices to buy and sell swaps.  A proposal by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission that
traders get a minimum of five price quotes before a transaction
“needs further consideration,” O’Connor said. Many bank swaps
customers “are opposed to this since excessive inquiry might
itself stimulate an adverse price move,” he said.  The reforms are aimed at one of Wall Street’s largest
profit centers.  For more, click here.  Separately, clearinghouses backing credit-default swaps
trades will be allowed to participate in decisions on payouts or
contract changes as an industry group seeks to bolster the
process, said Athanassios Diplas, co-chair of a swaps market
governance committee.  “We recognize more can be done” to improve how the
decisions are made, Diplas, global head of systemic risk
management at Deutsche Bank AG in New York, said during a panel
discussion yesterday at the ISDA conference in Chicago.  Clearinghouses will be “extended observer status” on the
so-called determinations  committee  that governs the credit-swaps
market, said Diplas, who is co-chair of ISDA’s Industry
Governance Committee.  The remarks followed the release of a study by New York-
based ISDA showing that the committee was unanimous 96 percent
of the time in votes on credit swaps payouts or other matters
related to the contracts since the panel was created in 2009.  For more, click here.  Wolin Says Runs on Money-Market Mutual Funds Could Be Dangerous  U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin said yesterday
that “we worry that runs on money-market mutual funds in a
stress circumstance could be the start of something that’s very
dangerous.”  Wolin, who spoke at the Bloomberg Washington Summit hosted
by Bloomberg Link, said that as a result of the Dodd-Frank
financial overhaul ‘when firms fail, they will fail. The
government will not bail them out.’’  The government now has tools to make sure that any failure
“does not infect the broader economy and the broader financial
system,” he said.  Wolin also said there is “no evidence” that the
regulatory environment is choking off growth in the financial
services sector.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  