-- Chesapeake’s McClendon ‘Deeply Sorry,’ Promises Debt Plan
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-05-02T21:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/chesapeake-board-shakeup-shifts-ceo-s-focus-back-to-debt-crude.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  told investors he’s “deeply
sorry” that his personal finances have come under scrutiny as
shares fell the most in more than three years.  “I’m deeply sorry for all of the distractions of the past
two weeks,” McClendon, co-founder of Oklahoma City-based
Chesapeake, said on a conference call today. McClendon said the
company may have to sell more assets than planned to cover a gap
between cash flow and revenue if natural-gas prices remain
depressed. These sales won’t interfere with debt-reduction
targets or plans to boost oil production, he said.  Chesapeake  dropped  15 percent to $16.74 at the close in  New
York , the biggest decline since December 2008. The company
reported an unexpected first-quarter loss yesterday, cut cash
flow estimates, reduced its drilling budget and said it may run
out of money next year under the weight of the lowest gas prices
in a decade. Chesapeake needs gas prices of $5 a thousand cubic
feet in 2014 to achieve its $7 billion cash flow goal for that
year, McClendon said.  The shares have dropped 50 percent in the past year. The
impact of falling gas prices has been compounded by media
reports that McClendon was using personal stakes in the
company’s wells to obtain loans. Chesapeake said yesterday it
would strip McClendon of his role as chairman and appoint an
independent person to the position he has held since co-founding
the company in 1989.  Chesapeake’s board said it will call an early halt to an
incentive program that allowed McClendon to amass personal
stakes in thousands of company-operated wells.  Biggest Investors  McClendon raised concern among some of his biggest
investors, including Southeastern Asset Management, after
Reuters reported last month that he used his stakes in the wells
as collateral to borrow hundreds of millions of dollars.
Southeastern Asset Management, which holds a 13.6 percent stake
in the company, today filed to change its status to an activist
investor so it can pursue talks with management or third parties
to boost the company’s value.  Potential conflicts between his personal and professional
duties overshadowed the CEO’s efforts to shave a net debt load
that swelled to twice the size of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s at the end
of 2011.  “The market has been catching up to the debt-laden, smoke-
and-mirrors investment model they employ,” said  Steve Shafer ,
chief investment officer for Covenant Global Investors, an
Oklahoma City-based hedge fund that manages $320 million.
“Chesapeake has a lot of debt and it needs a lot of debt going
forward and that sets up a potentially scary situation.”  End the ‘Controversy’  Covenant Global doesn’t own Chesapeake shares.  “We are eager to put the controversy of the past two weeks
behind us and focus all of our energies on delivering on our key
endeavors,” McClendon said on the conference call today.  Chesapeake reported a first-quarter loss of $71 million, or
11 cents a share, compared with a loss of $205 million, or 32
cents, a year earlier, the company said in a statement
yesterday. Excluding one-time gains and losses, per-share
earnings were 18 cents, less than the 28-cent average of 34
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Cutting Estimates  The gas producer slashed its full-year 2012 and 2013
operating cash flow estimates by as much as 48 percent and
increased the amount of assets it plans to sell. Chesapeake said
it may run short of cash next year after completing more than
$20 billion in asset sales to close a funding gap and pay down
debt.  The asset sales won’t impede Chesapeake’s plan to increase
oil output to 250,000 barrels a day in 2015, Chief Financial
Officer Domenic Dell’Osso said during the call.  The cost to protect against losses on Chesapeake’s debt
jumped to the highest since September 2009. Credit-default swaps
on the company jumped 3.5 percentage points to 7.6 percent
upfront as of about 3:30 p.m. in New York, according to CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc.  McClendon agreed to a board request to terminate the so-
called Founder Well Participation Program in June 2014, 18
months early, without additional compensation, Chesapeake said
in a separate release yesterday. He’ll retain the CEO position
and won’t relinquish any of the well stakes he acquired during
the past 23 years, said Michael Kehs, a Chesapeake spokesman.  “They need to keep this guy on a short leash and this is
the right way to do it,” said  Mark Hanson , an analyst at
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  Owning Well Stakes  As of Dec. 31, McClendon, 52, had $846 million in loans
financing his participation in the well-ownership program. The
program, which allowed him to own as much as 2.5 percent of
almost every well the company drilled, required that he pay
development costs proportionate to his stake.  As Chesapeake has grown during the past two decades,
McClendon’s need for cash to cover his well costs expanded along
with the company’s. McClendon’s personal cash crunch was
exacerbated by a plunge in gas prices that delayed the point
when wells drilled in recent years began to turn a profit,
Hanson said.  McClendon had $573 million in losses on his well stakes
during the past three calendar years as lease and drilling
expenses overwhelmed gas and oil revenue, the company said in a
 regulatory filing . During the first quarter, he piled on another
$88 million in losses.  The  Internal Revenue Service  has been reviewing the well-
investment program since March 2010 as part of audits of the
company’s 2008 and 2009 tax returns, Kehs said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  