-- Chesapeake’s Biggest Holder May Seek Third-Party Involvement
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-05-02T19:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/chesapeake-s-biggest-holder-may-seek-third-party-involvement-1-.html
Southeastern Asset Management Inc.,
the largest investor in  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , filed to change
its status to an activist investor so it may pursue talks with
management or third parties to boost the company’s value.  Southeastern disclosed a 13.6 percent stake in Oklahoma
City-based Chesapeake in a filing today with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. Mason Hawkins, Southeastern’s chairman
and chief executive officer, pushed to have Chesapeake CEO
Aubrey McClendon replaced as chairman and to halt a perk that
allowed McClendon to buy personal stakes in Chesapeake’s oil and
natural-gas wells.  McClendon, the only chairman Chesapeake has had since he
co-founded the company in 1989, has been criticized by investors
and analysts over potential conflicts between his personal
finances and corporate duties. He apologized today to investors
for the “distractions” of recent weeks during a conference
call.  Chesapeake fell 13 percent to $16.97 at 2:40 p.m. in  New
York , after earlier dropping 14 percent, the biggest intraday
decline since March 2009. The stock lost 49 percent of its value
in the past year.  Southeastern may wish to discuss with Chesapeake management
or third parties “possible courses of action to assist in
building corporate intrinsic value per share or to cause the
company’s true economic value to be recognized,” the Memphis,
Tennessee-based fund manager said in the filing.  Lee Harper, a Southeastern spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a telephone message seeking comment.  Chesapeake’s shares plunged today after the second-largest
U.S. gas producer posted an unexpected first-quarter loss and
said it may run out of cash next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  