-- Chesapeake Alone Forecasts Gas Rally for Recovery: Energy
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-05-03T20:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/chesapeake-alone-on-wall-street-in-gas-rally-bailout-energy.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  is banking his turnaround of
the industry’s biggest debtor on a rebound in natural-gas prices
that no Wall Street analysts tracked by Bloomberg expect will
happen.  A day after directors said they’ll strip him of the
chairman’s role as they investigate potential conflicts of
interest in his personal finances, McClendon laid out a plan to
shrink a $12.6 billion debt pile, cut costs and remake the
second-biggest U.S. gas producer into an  oil company . At the
core of his plan is a rebound in gas by 2014 to $5 per thousand
cubic feet, more than double today’s level.  McClendon may not be able to wait two years for the
company’s fortunes to improve. Southeastern Asset Management
Inc., holder of one of every seven outstanding Chesapeake
shares, notified the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
yesterday that it may initiate talks with management and third
parties about taking steps to boost the share price or sell the
company outright.  “There seems to be little acknowledgment by management or
the board that the company faces a major financial crisis,” Jon Wolff, an analyst at International Strategy & Investment Group
LLC in New York, said in a note to clients. Chesapeake needs a
“drastic reduction” in spending and to grow its oil production
faster, Wolff wrote.  Shareholder Agitation  Chesapeake  stock plunged  to the lowest in three years
yesterday while the cost to protect against losses on its debt
surged to the highest since September 2009. The shares rose 2.7
percent to $17.19 at the close in New York today.  Chesapeake reserves rose 9.9 percent in 2011 to the
equivalent of 3.13 billion barrels of crude from oil and gas
wells in U.S. shale fields such as the Marcellus in
 Pennsylvania , the Utica in  Ohio  and the Eagle Ford in  Texas .  Southeastern may be agitating for a seat on Chesapeake’s
board to exert more control over the CEO, Tim Rezvan, an analyst
at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., said in a telephone interview.  “I don’t know if anyone can secure that ship now,” said
Rezvan, who rates shares of Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake
“neutral.”  McClendon has been using personal stakes in thousands of
company-operated wells to obtain hundreds of millions of dollars
in loans to fund his required share of drilling costs. Some of
that money came from financiers that also do business with the
company, setting the stage for potential conflicts of interest.  Questions of Impropriety  “The question is: Did Aubrey commit  securities fraud  and
is he going to lose his job?” Rezvan said.  Calls to Southeastern requesting comment were not returned.  McClendon and the company have said he’s done nothing
wrong, though directors agreed last week to review the CEO’s
personal transactions. Directors said on May 1 that they’ll
abolish the perk that allowed McClendon to buy up to 2.5 percent
of almost every well the company drilled.  “As previously announced, the Board is reviewing financing
arrangements between Mr. McClendon and third parties that may
have relationships with the company, and it would be
inappropriate to comment on his personal investments at this
time,” Michael Kehs, Chesapeake’s vice president for strategic
planning, said today in an e-mailed statement.  The SEC has opened an informal inquiry into the company,
Chesapeake said today.  The SEC is looking into whether McClendon failed to
disclose possible conflicts of interest, a person briefed on the
matter said, asking not to be named because the matter isn’t
public.  Private Hedge Fund  McClendon also ran a private hedge fund within Chesapeake
that traded energy and other commodities independently of the
company’s risk managers for several years during the last
decade.  It was a so-called long-only fund, which means it never bet
on price declines in any of the commodities it traded, said a
person familiar with the arrangement who asked not to be
identified because the information wasn’t public. Reuters
reported the existence of the hedge fund yesterday.  Chesapeake posted an unexpected $71 million first-quarter
loss May 1 and cut  cash flow  estimates for this year and next.
The company’s net debt expanded by $2.4 billion during the first
three months of this year to $12.6 billion, the highest in its
peer group, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  McClendon told investors during a  conference call  yesterday
that he can pull the Oklahoma City-based company he co-founded
23 years ago out of its doldrums in 2014 with $7 billion in free
cash flow, assuming gas rises to $5 and oil averages $100 a
barrel.  $5 Long Shot  The prospect of $5 gas in 2014 is an unlikely one,
according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Bob Brackett with
Sanford Bernstein Co. had the most optimistic estimate of gas
rising to $4.75 per million British thermal units, a measure
roughly equivalent to a thousand cubic feet, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gas futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange are
expected to average $4.29 per million Btus in 2014, according to
estimates from seven analysts in the Bloomberg survey.  McClendon, 52, said that if gas prices fail to rise enough
to support his 2014 cash-flow target, the company will sell more
of its oilfields and other assets to raise cash. Chesapeake’s
auction block already holds $20.5 billion in sale items, up from
$17.5 billion it planned to sell three months ago.  Glut Must End  U.S. gas prices tumbled 70 percent in the past five years
as innovative drilling techniques allowed explorers to tap
reserves locked in previously impenetrable shale rock formations
from Texas to Pennsylvania. Gas output from U.S. wells jumped 21
percent during that period, reaching a record 28.6 trillion
cubic feet in 2011 and far outpacing demand growth for the fuel,
Energy Department figures showed.  McClendon told investors the glut won’t persist. Prices are
so low that explorers such as Chesapeake, which produces more
gas in the U.S. than anyone except  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , have no
choice but to idle gas rigs or move them to drill oil prospects.  As that migration to oil continues, gas supplies will
shrink and prices will rebound, according to a slide
presentation that accompanied McClendon’s conference call with
investors yesterday.  “Maybe some people will think you should just sit there
and be stuck in the mud of $2 gas prices,” McClendon said
during yesterday’s call. “‘But we don’t believe that’s the way
to go.”  Apologies for ‘Distractions’  The cost of protecting Chesapeake’s debt against default
yesterday climbed to the highest since August 2009 as it had the
biggest one-day advance, 21 percent, since December 2008.  The company’s five-year credit default swap increased 127
basis points to 730.45 basis points, according to according to
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
in privately negotiated markets. The swap has gained 276 basis
points this year, the biggest increase among energy companies,
followed by  Spain ’s Repsol YPF SA, which had its Argentine unit
expropriated.  Chastened by media reports questioning his use of personal
stakes in company wells to obtain loans, McClendon apologized
yesterday to investors for the “distractions.”  “We are eager to leave behind the controversies in the
past few weeks and focus all of our energies on delivering on
these key objectives during the remainder of the year,”
McClendon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  