-- China, South Korea Start Talks on Free-Trade Pact
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-02T07:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/china-south-korea-start-talks-on-free-trade-pact.html
China  and South Korea are starting
discussions toward reaching a free-trade agreement and want to
establish the accord as early as possible, Chinese Commerce
Minister  Chen Deming  said.  The first round of talks will take place this month, Chen
said at a briefing in Beijing today with South Korean Trade
Minister Bark Tae Ho. The two countries’ goal is to lift trade
to $300 billion in 2016, Chen said.  Asia’s biggest and fourth-biggest economies would form a
market with annual trade that rose 19 percent in 2011 to $246
billion, according to China’s customs data. A free trade accord
is strategic from both economic and political standpoints, given
the proximity to  North Korea , said Kwon Hyuk Jae, research
fellow at Samsung Economic Research Institute in Seoul.  “Both can gain much for economic growth and closer ties
will help beef up regional security,” Kwon said.  Officials have previously signaled interest in a trade
accord. South Korean Foreign Minister Kim Sung Hwan said in
January that “both sides basically share the view that a free
trade agreement between South Korea and China is needed.”  Chen said the world economic recovery is sluggish as the
global financial crisis endures. Trade protectionism is rising,
he said.  Exports to China, South Korea’s largest market, increased
14.9 percent to $134.2 billion in 2011 from a year ago, which
accounted for 24.1 percent of South Korea’s total exports last
year, according to a Korea Customs Service report on Jan. 15.  Biggest Exporter  China has free-trade agreements with 10 partners including
 New Zealand  and  Singapore , according to the commerce ministry’s
website. The nation, the world’s biggest exporter, was already
in FTA talks with five trading partners including Iceland and
 Norway , the ministry said.  China, South Korea and  Japan  are also studying the
establishment of a free trade pact among the three nations.
Formal talks have not started yet. Chen said today that a
bilateral accord with South Korea doesn’t contradict a three-way
agreement and could be the foundation for such an accord.  South Korea’s free trade agreement with the U.S., the
world’s largest economy, took effect March 15, after the
countries’ legislatures approved a pact first signed in 2007.
The biggest U.S. trade accord in almost two decades will cut
about 80 percent of tariffs between the nations.  The U.S. is South Korea’s third-largest trading partner and
bilateral trade totaled $101 billion in 2011, according to data
compiled by the Korea Customs Service.  Closer Ties  “South Korea can gain more access to the vast and fast-
growing market and use closer ties with China as leverage
against North Korea,” Kwon at Samsung said. “For its part,
China can boost its industrial competitiveness and increase its
influence in  Asia  vis-a-vis the U.S.”  South Korea said today that North Korea may be jamming the
global positioning systems of airliners flying into South Korea.
A total of 252 planes flying in and out of Incheon International
and Gimpo airports since April 28 have had signals jammed as of
10:40 a.m., the Land Ministry said in a statement on its website.  North Korea threatened last month to turn South Korean
President  Lee Myung Bak  and his government “to ashes in three
or four minutes” using “unprecedented peculiar means and
methods.” The regime’s heightened rhetoric over the past month
and its botched April 13 rocket launch has prompted speculation
it will soon detonate a nuclear device.  Trade Benefits  For  South Korea , makers of cars, electronics, chemicals and
petrochemical products will benefit most from a trade pact while
farmers and small manufacturers will be hit hard, Kwon said.  China buys mostly cars and electronics from South Korea
while selling mainly mineral products and electronic parts to
South Korea, according to data compiled by the Korea Customs
Service.  A free trade deal with China would boost South Korea’s
economic growth by as much as 3 percentage points and create as
many as 330,000 jobs over a decade, South Korea’s finance
ministry said in a statement today.  South Korea’s Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said in a
ministerial meeting on April 16 that the nation should take
advantage of China’s efforts to generate more growth from
domestic demand.  Trade with China has increased 35-fold since 1992, when the
two countries established diplomatic ties, and the nation became
South Korea’s biggest trading partner in 2004, Bahk said.  --Zheng Lifei, Eunkyung Seo. With assistance from Victoria Ruan
in Beijing and Sarina Yoo in  Seoul . Editors: Scott Lanman,
Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  