-- China Money Rate Rises as Manufacturing Data Damps Stimulus Bets
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-05-02T09:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/china-money-rate-rises-as-manufacturing-data-damps-stimulus-bets.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose for the first time in three days after data showing
manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in a year damped
speculation the central bank will relax monetary policy.  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index rose to 53.3 in April from
53.1 in March, the statistics bureau and logistics federation
said in a statement yesterday. That’s the fifth straight reading
above the 50 level dividing expansion from contraction. The
People’s Bank of China didn’t gauge demand for bill sales
tomorrow, suggesting auctions of the securities will remain
suspended, according to a trader at a primary dealer required to
bid at the auctions.  “Improved manufacturing PMI reduces the risk of a hard
landing and the need for monetary stimulus,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB.
“Also, policy makers have talked about policy fine-tuning but
haven’t done this yet. The economy needs support to counter
risks from weak exports and the housing market.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, increased three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.81 percent as of 4:30 p.m.
in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. Domestic financial markets
resumed trading after a two-day public holiday.  The central bank has cut lenders’ reserve requirements
twice since November and suspended bill sales this year to make
more funds available in the financial system. Banks extended
1.01 trillion  yuan  ($160 billion) of new loans in March, the
most in a year, the People’s Bank of China said on April 12.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, rose five basis points to 3.30
percent in Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.99 percent government bonds due June
2021 climbed five basis points to 3.53 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  -- Judy Chen  in Shanghai. Editors:  James Regan , Simon Harvey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  