-- China Manufacturing Improvement Signals Growth Rebound
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-02T06:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/china-hsbc-manufacturing-pmi-49-3-in-april-vs-preliminary-49-1.html
A Chinese manufacturing index rose in
April, signaling that a rebound in the world’s second-biggest
economy may help to offset constraints on global growth from
austerity measures in  Europe .  The 49.3 final reading of a purchasing managers’ index from
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit Economics today compares with a
preliminary 49.1 reported April 23 and a final 48.3 in March. A
separate index released yesterday by  China ’s statistics bureau
and logistics federation was at 53.3, indicating the fastest
growth in a year.  Improvements in manufacturing may encourage Premier Wen Jiabao to extend a two-month pause in lowering banks’ reserve
requirements as the effect of previous easing kicks in. Wen is 
seeking to rein in property and consumer prices without sending 
the economy into a so-called hard landing. Gross domestic 
product increased 8.1 percent last quarter from a year earlier, 
the least since 2009.  “Easing measures are starting to work,” said  Qu Hongbin ,
Hong Kong-based chief economist for China at HSBC. China’s
growth may “bottom out” this quarter and climb to an annual
rate of more than 8.5 percent in the second half, Qu said.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.7 percent as of 2:10
p.m. in  Tokyo  on the China data and a better-than-estimated
manufacturing report from the U.S. Factory data is due today
for the euro region and  Germany  after a U.K. gauge released
yesterday fell more than economists forecast. Indian
manufacturing expanded at close to the slowest pace in three
months, a report from HSBC and Markit showed today.  Yuan Climbs  The yuan climbed the most in two weeks before talks between
U.S. and Chinese officials in Beijing tomorrow.  The fourth round of the U.S.-China strategic and economic
dialogue involves U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
and officials led by Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan . The
People’s Bank of China raised the fixing 0.19 percent to 6.2670
per dollar today, the strongest level since a peg ended in July
2005 and 0.7 percent stronger than last week’s closing price.  The yuan advanced 0.14 percent, the most since April 17, to
6.3011 per dollar as of 12:02 p.m. in Shanghai.  In a sign that China’s manufacturing remains constrained by
weakness in global demand, the HSBC PMI has indicated
contractions for six straight months, the longest run since the
global financial crisis. The official index is based on
responses from managers at more than 820 companies in 28
industries, while HSBC’s measure covers more than 420 companies
and is weighted toward smaller businesses.  Case for Easing  “The need for aggressive policy easing is limited given
the government’s desire to slow growth and the upside inflation
risks,” Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based economist with  Barclays
Capital , said before today’s release. “Fine-tuning measures
such as easing credit, support for first-home buyers and
expansionary fiscal policy to support infrastructure will
gradually feed through, so the slowdown in growth will bottom
out this quarter.”  China’s new  yuan  loans may have fallen to about 700 billion
yuan (US$111 billion) last month, down almost 30 percent from
March, the China Securities Journal reported today, citing
estimates from unspecified “market participants.” China’s four
major state lenders extended only 101.7 billion yuan of new
loans through April 25, the newspaper said, without saying where
it obtained the figures.  In Beijing today, China and  South Korea  said that the two
nations would begin talks this month on a free-trade agreement
and have a goal of lifting annual trade to $300 billion by 2016,
according to Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming .  Chen also said that the global recovery is sluggish as the
global financial crisis endures.  In Thailand, the central bank will keep  interest rates  on
hold today, according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  