-- China Skeptic Hugh Hendry Turns Bullish on U.S. Stocks
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-05-02T14:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/china-skeptic-hendry-turns-bullish-on-u-s-concerned-about-asia.html
Hugh Hendry, whose Eclectica hedge
fund returned 31 percent in 2008 betting against U.S. growth,
turned bullish on the world’s biggest economy and repeated his
concern that a real-estate bubble will derail  China ’s boom.  “We are more bullish on U.S. growth than most,” the 43-
year-old Scot wrote in a letter to clients last month that was
obtained by Bloomberg. “We are also more pessimistic on Chinese
growth than ever. This makes us bearish on most Asian stocks,
bearish on industrial commodity prices, interested in some U.S.
stocks, a seller of high variance equities and deeply concerned
that  Japan  could become the focal point of the next global leg
down.”  Japan may be the developed economy most hurt by a Chinese
slowdown, he said. Hendry gained prominence for saying that he
was proud to have profited after the collapse of banks in 2008
and his public arguments with European politicians who blamed
hedge-fund managers for exacerbating the financial crisis. He
now says that the economic malaise that started in the U.S. with
the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. more than three
years ago is poised to wreak havoc on  Asia .  “It has long seemed to us to be the case that the economic
crisis would start in the U.S. and make its way to  Europe ,”
Hendry wrote, calling the April note the longest letter he has
sent to his investors since the winter of 2010. “That has
happened. However, we also think it will end in Asia.”  Chinese Boom  U.S. prospects have brightened amid discoveries of shale
gas and more acceptance of the need to reduce debt and wage
levels, Hendry wrote.  Hendry, who founded London-based Eclectica Asset Management
LLP in 2002, didn’t return a phone call or e-mails seeking
further comment. As of April 13, his  Eclectica hedge fund  had
fallen about 1.7 percent in 2012 after rising 12 percent last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He manages a
separate hedge fund that tries to protect investors from market
shocks, which surged about 46 percent in 2011.  According to Hendry, Chinese authorities triggered a real-
estate boom by forcing banks to pay low  interest rates  on
deposits. Citizens then sought better returns by speculating on
property using money borrowed through “underground lending,”
he said.  The Asian country is also being hurt by the European
sovereign debt crisis as slow growth and austerity measures
imposed by the region’s politicians crimp the buying power of
China’s largest export market, Hendry said.  “We might soon come to question whether China is going to
be able to maintain its currency peg to the dollar,” he wrote.
“When we look to at where the next market crisis will come
from, we should be looking to China. There is a near consensus
that China will supplant America this decade. We do not believe
this.”  Toshiba, Hitachi  Hendry, who has been bearish on China since at least 2010,
has been a buyer of credit-default swaps on bonds issued by
Japanese companies that benefit from Chinese growth. The
contracts become more valuable when investors become more
concerned that a company will default on its debt.  In his April letter, Hendry said he’s bought CDS on  Toshiba
Corp. (6502)  and called the shares of  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  “too expensive.”  “Japan is the most industrially exposed economy there is
to a Chinese slowdown,” Hendry wrote. Once Chinese growth has
“unmistakably faltered,” Japanese companies will be downgraded
and no longer able to sell “cheap equity to their much abused
shareholders. Then we will have entered the crisis and
resolution chapter.”  Hendry gained attention for his negative view on China in
2009 when he  posted videos on YouTube  in which the  fund manager 
toured cities and highlighted office buildings that he said had
no tenants. In last month’s letter, Hendry promised “no more
YouTube videos.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  