-- China Yuan Gains on Record Fixing Before Geithner Visits Beijing
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-05-02T02:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/china-yuan-gains-on-record-fixing-before-geithner-visits-beijing.html
The  yuan  climbed the most in two weeks
before talks between U.S. and Chinese officials in Beijing
tomorrow that will probably include discussion of whether the
currency is undervalued.  The fourth round of the U.S.-China strategic and economic
dialogue involves U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
and officials led by Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan . The
People’s Bank of China raised the  fixing  0.19 percent to 6.2670
per dollar today, the strongest level since a peg ended in July
2005 and 0.7 percent stronger than last week’s closing price.  “That’s definitely a friendly fixing for tomorrow’s
meeting and it’s quite a natural move for China,” said Tommy Ong, the Hong Kong-based senior vice president of treasury and
markets at DBS ( Hong Kong ). “Officials want to show their
willingness to allow market forces to play a bigger role in the
yuan’s exchange rate.”  The yuan advanced 0.17 percent, the most since April 17, to
6.2995 per dollar as of 9:53 a.m. in Shanghai, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The currency traded at a
0.52 percent discount to the  reference rate  and is allowed to
trade 1 percent either side of the daily fixing.  The yuan’s 23 percent rally against the dollar in the past
five years doesn’t impress Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney , who vows on the campaign trail to brand China a
“currency manipulator.” The view is more tempered in
Washington, where Geithner praises China for letting the yuan
trade more freely. Lawmakers from Romney’s own party, including
House Speaker  John Boehner  and Representative  Dave Camp , say a
Senate-backed bill punishing China for undervaluing the currency
to boost exports ignores such issues as intellectual-property
theft and might prompt a trade war.  Asian Currencies  Asian currencies advanced after reports showing expansion
in the U.S. and Chinese manufacturing brightened the outlook for
regional exports to the world’s two biggest economies. The
Purchasing Managers’ Index in China rose to 53.3 in April, the
fifth straight reading above the 50 level dividing expansion
from contraction, according to official data yesterday.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan gained 0.03
percent to 6.2987. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose
0.1 percent to 6.3395, a 0.6 percent discount to the onshore
spot rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  One-month implied volatility for the currency, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, was unchanged at 2.1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  