-- CME Raises Margins for Non-Hedged Accounts to Meet Rule
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-05-03T16:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/cme-group-raising-margins-for-non-hedge-member-accounts-on-may-7.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange, is raising futures margins for non-hedged
accounts from May 7 to comply with new regulations.  Members will be treated as speculators for outright
positions, paying a higher margin, said the exchange, which
trades everything from energy, agriculture and metals to
interest rates and equity indexes. Members are currently treated
as hedgers rather than speculators even if they are entering
into a speculative position.  President  Barack Obama  last month urged Congress to bolster
federal supervision of oil markets, including bigger penalties
for market manipulation and greater power for regulators to
increase the amount of money traders must put up to back their
bets. Regulators are seeking to limit speculation in commodities
and ban so-called proprietary trading at banks.  “Guys that are highly leveraged would have to find more
capital or they’ve got to bring their position-size down,” Adam Davis , a commodity trader at Merricks Capital Services Pty, said
from  Melbourne  today. “You can reduce a position-size in two
seconds. Finding more capital might take you two months.”  CFTC Rule  The change in so-called performance-bond requirements was
in response to a  rule  adopted last year by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission targeting all speculative trading accounts
that are regulated as futures or swaps, the Chicago-based
exchange said in a  statement  yesterday.  Commodity regulators are seeking to provide clearinghouses
with a cushion of available customer collateral to reduce risks
in derivatives trades. Exchanges traditionally have drawn a
distinction between hedging and non-hedging positions when they
have set margin requirements for customers, the CFTC said in its
final rule, scheduled to take effect May 7.  “It is reasonable to assume that hedgers may present less
risk than speculators,” the agency said in the rule.  About 40 percent of CME Group’s first-quarter  revenue  was
generated by financial contracts and 40 percent came from
commodities, the company said last month. The largest financial
contracts by revenue were  interest rates  at 21 percent, with
equities at 13 percent. Energy contracts were the largest among
commodities at 24 percent, with agricultural at 11 percent.  Complying with the CFTC rule will affect exchange members
that have speculative positions, including traders who lease
trading privileges, said Laurie Bischel, a CME spokeswoman.  Higher Margin  “The CFTC rule takes away the implicit hedge status of
members, forcing them to pay a higher margin to take flat price
and spread positions home overnight,” said  Roy Huckabay , the
executive vice president for the Chicago-based Linn Group, a
CFTC-registered futures clearing firm for individual traders,
hedgers and funds. “This would by nature reduce the number of
contracts they trade unless they put up additional collateral.”  The CFTC approved regulations last year that would cap the
number of contracts a derivatives trader can have. European
regulators are also seeking limits on derivatives after French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  demanded steps to curb speculation,
which he blames for driving up world food prices.  Trade associations representing companies including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  have sued to overturn the CFTC regulation, one of the
financial industry’s highest-profile challenges to the 2010
Dodd-Frank law that bolsters regulation of derivatives.  Price Drop  “If large trading houses have long positions, they may
pare some of those positions to meet these margin requirements,
and that would drop the prices,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief
market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com in  Chicago .  Crude-oil futures for June delivery fell 2.1 percent to
$103.04 a barrel at 11:45 a.m. on the CME’s  New York Mercantile
Exchange , after dropping to the lowest price in more than a
week. Gold futures for June delivery slid 1 percent to $1,636.80
an ounce on the CME’s Comex in  New York .  Obama has asked Congress to fund a six-fold increase for
surveillance and enforcement staff at the CFTC to put “more
cops on the beat” overseeing oil markets. He is seeking to give
the CFTC authority to raise margins for traders’ positions and
stiffen civil and criminal penalties for businesses guilty of
manipulation to $10 million from $1 million.  “Basically, we don’t see any impact on the market from the
latest revision,” said Richard Gorry, a Singapore-based
director at JBC Energy GmbH, an energy research company. “There
might be some smaller players that could be forced out of a
trade more quickly, but we don’t think that it will have any
type of meaningful effect on the big boys.”  Because the rule affects only exchange members, “the
impact on the market is relatively minimal,” said  Kyle Cooper ,
the director of commodities research at IAF Advisors in Houston.
“Members trade, but they are still small in relation to the
whole market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  