-- Comcast Must Put Bloomberg TV Among News Channels, FCC Says
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-05-02T22:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/comcast-must-put-bloomberg-tv-near-other-news-channels-fcc-says.html
Comcast (CMCSA)  Corp. must carry Bloomberg
Television near other news channels on cable systems in the 35
largest U.S. media markets, the Federal Communications
Commission said today.  Comcast agreed to a requirement to have “news
neighborhooding” when it purchased  NBC Universal  last year, the
FCC said today as it ruled in a complaint brought by New York-
based Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg TV and Bloomberg News.  “The news neighborhooding condition requires Comcast to
carry all independent news and business news channels in a
neighborhood if it places any such programming in a neighborhood
of similar programming,” said the order, signed by William
Lake, the FCC’s media bureau chief.  Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company by revenue and
subscribers, will ask the FCC’s commissioners to overturn the
decision,  Sena Fitzmaurice , a spokeswoman for the cable company,
said in an e-mailed statement.  The commissioners “will agree to enforce only conditions
as they were originally negotiated and intended,” Fitzmaurice
said.  Bloomberg, CNBC  Bloomberg TV can’t pick where it’s placed and Comcast,
which owns CNBC, isn’t required to put the two business-news
channels near each other, the FCC said. Bloomberg TV also isn’t
owed placement in more than one news neighborhood on a Comcast
system, it said.  The FCC ordered Philadelphia-based Comcast to present a
list of localities where Bloomberg TV is to be carried in a news
neighborhood.  A news neighborhood is defined as an area of a cable system
lineup where four news channels are within five adjacent
positions, the agency said.  “We are pleased the FCC had the foresight to include the
news neighborhooding condition in the Comcast/NBCU merger
order,” and was willing to enforce it, Greg Babyak, Bloomberg’s
head of government affairs, said in an e-mailed comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  