-- Congo Clashes Thwart Plans to Export Conflict-Free Minerals
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-05-02T09:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/congo-clashes-thwart-plans-on-conflict-free-minerals-correct-.html
Renewed fighting in  Democratic
Republic  of Congo’s eastern Kivu provinces will block plans to
start exports of so-called “conflict-free minerals” from the
region next month, North Kivu’s provincial mines ministry said.  In March, Congolese Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu 
approved sales from 11 tin-ore and coltan mines in the Masisi
territory in North Kivu, where Congo’s army is now battling a
breakaway faction of soldiers loyal to former rebel General
Bosco Ntaganda. Both minerals are used in the manufacture of
electronics ranging from mobile phones to  jet engines .  “We were hoping to start exporting from green-lighted
sites in Masisi, mostly coltan, but unfortunately the trouble
we’re seeing is in Masisi,” Emmanuel Ndimubanzi, the head of
North Kivu province’s Division of Mines, said in an interview in
Goma, the provincial capital, on April 28. “It won’t work.”  For more than a decade, armed groups and some members of
the Congolese army, including Ntaganda, have funded their
rebellions and enriched themselves through the sale of minerals
found throughout the region, according to the  United Nations .  As more buyers choose to avoid purchasing minerals that may
have supported one of the world’s deadliest conflicts, Congo’s
share of world tin sales dropped to 2 percent last year from
about 4 percent in 2008, when it was the fifth-largest supplier,
according to the  U.S. Geological Survey .  In North Kivu, home to the country’s biggest tin mines,
mineral sales have fallen more than 80 percent in the past three
years, according to mines ministry statistics.  Millions Dead  War in eastern Congo began in the mid-1990s when the
aftermath of the genocide in neighboring  Rwanda  spilled over the
border. Fighting spread throughout Congo, a country about the
size of Western Europe. Congo’s mineral wealth helped fund a
series of international and civil wars that left at least 3.1
million dead between 1998 and 2007, according to the
International Rescue Committee. Most died from starvation or
preventable disease, according to the New York-based aid agency.  A mixture of ethnic, political and economic disputes still
plague the Kivu region, which is rich in tin ore, coltan,
wolfram and gold. In 2010, the U.S. passed a law designating
those four metals “conflict minerals,” spurring an exodus of
buyers from Congo worried about reputational risk.  Congo’s Mines Ministry is working with partners including
the tin and electronics industries, regional governments and the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to create
mineral-supply chains that don’t fund conflict.  Projects Derailed  The new fighting will derail those projects in the Kivu
provinces, according to John Kanyoni, the president of North
Kivu’s association of tin buyers and one of the biggest
suppliers of Congolese tin.  “As long as there is conflict there, no one will be
purchasing minerals,” Kanyoni said by phone from Kigali, the
Rwandan capital, on April 30.  The current fighting began last month, when about 300
soldiers loyal to Ntaganda deserted the army amid speculation he
would be arrested. The  International Criminal Court  has indicted
Ntaganda for  war crimes . Last week, fighting broke out between
the army and fighters linked to Ntaganda on at least three
fronts, according to the UN. The political wing of Ntaganda’s
former rebel group denied he was involved in the mutiny in an e-
mailed statement April 30.  Trade Relocating  Congo’s tin and coltan trade has begun shifting to other
provinces with less exposure to armed groups, Kanyoni said. In
Katanga province, companies including Schaumburg, Illinois-based
 Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI) ,  Finland ’s  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  AVX Corp. (AVX)  of
the U.S. are backing a project to mine tantalum for their
electronic devices that is certified conflict free.  In Maniema province, west of North and South Kivu,  Malaysia
Smelting Corp. (SMELT) , the world’s third-biggest tin producer, is in
talks with the government to develop an industrial-scale
project.  Last year, Katanga produced 4,277 metric tons of tin ore, a
10-fold increase since 2009, when it accounted for only 3
percent of the country’s official tin exports and none of its
coltan sales. The production compares with the more than 13,000
tons of tin ore North Kivu produced in 2008.  North Kivu’s mineral trade previously accounted for 90
percent of export earnings and as much as 50 percent of
provincial revenue, North Kivu provincial official Ndimubanzi
said. That money “has dried up,” he said.  Western companies have stopped buying from the region,
according to ministry statistics, and the Chinese businesses
that are buying about 85 percent of the province’s remaining tin
ore production are paying lower prices, Ndimubanzi said.  More than 2,800 tons of tin ore worth about $37 million and
111 tons of coltan valued at $2.5 million was shipped out of
Goma in the first three months of this year, according to
provincial statistics.  “We’re hoping the security situation won’t degenerate
further,” he said. “The only hope for us is to export these
conflict-free minerals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Goma at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 