-- Cool Summer, Few Hurricanes No Help to Energy Markets, MDA Says
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-05-02T02:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/cool-summer-few-hurricanes-no-help-to-energy-markets-mda-says.html
Temperatures in the U.S. this summer
will be cooler than the past two years and the number of
hurricanes coming out of the Atlantic will probably be less than
2011, forecasters from MDA EarthSat Weather said.  While June to August may be warmer than both the 10 year
and 30 year averages, temperatures aren’t forecast to reach the
record hot levels of 2011 and 2012, said Travis Hartman, energy
weather manager at  MDA  in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . That means
less energy will be needed to cool homes and businesses.  “If you are sitting in this room looking for a bullish
story this isn’t the presentation to watch,” Hartman said at a
joint presentation by MDA and Bloomberg LP in New York today.  Commodities traders watch temperature projections and
cooling-degree days forecasts to gauge energy use and demand.
About 51 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating,
according to the Energy Department, while demand for the fuel
from electricity generators peaks in the summer months to meet
air conditioning needs.  Gas for June delivery rose 8.6 cents to settle at $2.371
per million British thermal units on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange today. The futures have declined 21 percent this year
and gained 7.5 percent in April, the biggest monthly increase
since March 2011.  The projected population cooling-degree days value for June
to August may be 907, which is more than the 10-year average of
894, Hartman said. Last year had the highest population weighted
value at 1024, followed by 2010, which had a value of 1018.  Degree Days  Cooling-degree days are calculated by subtracting a base of
65 degrees from the daily average temperature to show energy
demand. Higher values mean warmer weather and more energy being
used to cool homes and businesses.  MDA gives greater weight to the larger population centers
in the U.S., such as the East Coast, when determining its final
number, Hartman said.  In addition to the summer forecast, MDA also predicted 11
named storms would emerge from the Atlantic during this year’s
hurricane season, which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30, according
to  Chris Hyde , a meteorologist with the commercial forecaster.  A storm has to have maximum sustained winds of 39 miles (63
kilometers) per hour to be given a name by the U.S. National
Hurricane Center in Miami. An average season during the last 30
years produced 12 storms, according to the hurricane center.  “In 14 years, this is the first below-normal forecast that
we put out,” Hyde said.  Hurricane Forecasts  Of those 11 storms, Hyde said 5 may become hurricanes with
winds of 74 mph or greater.  Colorado State University , which
pioneered seasonal  hurricane forecasts , predicted last month
predicted 10 storms would form last month.  The  Gulf of Mexico  is home to 29 percent of U.S. oil
output, 6.4 percent of gas production and 40 percent of refining
capacity, meaning hurricane forecasts are closely watched. In
addition,  Florida , which is the world’s second largest orange
producer behind  Brazil , is often in the path of Atlantic storms.  Hurricanes can also cause a tremendous amount of insured
losses, said Jonathan Adams, a senior equity analyst for
Bloomberg Industries.  When considering the potential damage a storm can inflict,
it is important to look just beyond how past incidents would
have measured up in modern dollars, Adams said at the event.
More people are living along the U.S. coastline than ever before
and they have greater per capita wealth.  So if a storm were to hit it would potentially cause
greater damage than in the past because there would be much more
to destroy, he said.  Both the hurricane forecast and the summer outlook depend
on whether an  El Nino , or warming in the  Pacific Ocean , develop,
Hartman said. If the El Nino doesn’t develop, as some models
predict, that could change everything, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  