-- CTC Jumps on Prospect More Viewers Lift Sales: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-05-02T03:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/ctc-jumps-on-prospect-more-viewers-lift-sales-russia-overnight.html
CTC Media Inc. (CTCM)  gained the most in five
weeks in New York on speculation the Russian media company will
report that first-quarter sales increased as its television
channel boosted its share of local viewers.  CTC, which owns Russia’s fifth-biggest television channel
by audience, climbed the most since March 23 in New York
yesterday, leading gains on the  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN) 
of the most-traded Russian companies in the U.S. The gauge added
0.4 percent to 103.76. OAO Mobile Telesystems traded at the
biggest premium over Moscow shares of Russian companies in the
U.S. as local markets open after a two-day holiday.  Moscow-based CTC will report tomorrow that revenue rose 9
percent to $181 million, according to the median of seven
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Mounting demand for
 TV advertising  and  Russian consumer  confidence at a four-year
high has helped the company capture a bigger share of the 18-
and-older audience, according to  Alfa Bank .  “The company is expected to report good results for the
first quarter, because they won a bigger audience share and the
overall advertising market in  Russia  is growing,” Iouli Matevossov, a senior analyst in Moscow at Alfa Bank, who
recommends buying CTC’s U.S.-traded shares, said by phone from
Moscow yesterday. Companies “are ready to spend or are already
spending on advertising as consumer confidence is strong.”  CTC advanced 1.8 percent in U.S. trading to $11.03. The
company is scheduled to report first-quarter earnings on May 3
before U.S. markets open. CTC pushed its valuation to 11.7 times
 estimated earnings  in yesterday’s trading, almost twice the 6.63
average multiple for Russian companies listed in the U.S.  Daily Share  CTC’s average daily share of viewers 18 years and older for
its television channel rose to 5.9 percent in the week to April
22, making it the fifth-most watched in Russia, according to
TNS-Global. Average daily audience among viewers 4 years and
over climbed to 6.8 percent from 6.3 percent in the week to
April 15, the data showed.  CTC regained its fifth-place ranking among viewers 18 years
and older in the week to April 22 after losing it to REN-TV in
the previous week.  CTC also owns smaller television channels in Russia,
including Domashniy and Peretz. Television advertising is the
main source of the company’s revenue.  Ad Market  Russia’s advertising market, excluding political ads, grew
21 percent to $8.9 billion in 2011, data by the  Association of
Communication Agencies of Russia  showed on Feb. 21.  The  consumer confidence  index in Russia advanced 2 points
to minus 5 during the first quarter, the highest level since the
third quarter of 2008, when the measure peaked at plus 1, the
Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said in an e-mailed
statement on April 6.  CTC shares also gained after  Central European Media
Enterprises Ltd. (CETV) , a Bermuda-registered operator of television
channels in central and eastern  Europe  rallied, Konstantin
Chernyshev, the head of research at UralSib Financial Corp. said
yesterday by phone from Moscow.  CME jumped 8.2 percent to $8.56 in New York yesterday, the
highest level since Feb. 16, after  Time Warner Inc. (TWC)  said it will
provide a $300 million loan to the company, raising its stake to
40 percent, the company said in an April 30 statement.  ‘Positive Sentiment’  “It gives an overall positive sentiment” to the media
segment of the market, Chernyshev said yesterday.  OAO Mobile Telesystems (MBT) , Russia’s largest mobile operator,
fell 0.6 percent to $19.45 yesterday, after gaining 2.5 percent
on April 30.  The stock’s premium over the company’s Moscow listed shares
rose to 23.1 percent on April 30, the highest since Feb. 6, as
Moscow markets remained close for two days through May 1. The
premium was at 22 percent yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. One New York-listed ADR is equal to two ordinary shares
traded on Russia’s Micex Index.  MTS’ board recommended paying 30.4 billion rubles ($1
billion) as dividends for last year’s earnings, according to an
April 12 statement. To qualify for the payment, the shares must
be bought by May 10, the company said.  “People buy ahead of dividend payments,” Chernyshev said
by phone. “And those are pretty solid dividends by these days’
standards. MTS is known as a reliable dividends payer.”  OAO Mechel (MTL) , Russia’s largest producer of coal for
steelmakers, fell 0.7 percent to $8.63 in New York, the lowest
close since April 23. The company will delay its 2011 financial
results following talks with creditors, according to a filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday.  Oil Climbs  The stock’s discount to the company’s Moscow traded shares
was 2.9 percent, the widest since April 19, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. One New York-listed ADR is equal to one ordinary
share traded on Russia’s Micex Index.  Oil climbed to a one-month high and commodities rose
yesterday after April U.S. factory output in the U.S. rose at
the fastest pace in 10 months, reports showed. Crude oil for
June delivery gained 1.3 percent to $106.16 a barrel on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange.  Brent oil for June settlement gained 0.2 percent to $119.72
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Urals crude ,
Russia’s main export blend, was little changed at $117.27.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
gained 0.2 percent to HK$5.50 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:39
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  