-- Daimler, Volkswagen, ThyssenKrupp Targeted in Wage Walkouts
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-05-02T13:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/daimler-s-sprinter-unit-hit-by-walkout-amid-pay-rise-demand.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ,  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  were among the manufacturers targeted today as
 Germany ’s IG Metall labor union expanded its strikes to include
36,000 workers in a dispute aimed at improving pay and terms.  More than 100 businesses have been affected by the so-
called warning strikes since April 29, IG Metall said in an e-
mailed statement. A walkout by 800 workers at Daimler’s Sprinter
van plant in Dusseldorf today followed a strike at the company’s
plant in Rastatt on April 30 and came before planned strikes at
 Porsche AG (PAH3)  and VW.  More than 12,000 workers had walked out from 55 businesses
in Daimler’s home state of Baden-Wuerttemberg as of midday
today, IG Metall said. The union is seeking a 6.5 percent pay
raise, unrestricted full-time hiring at the end of
apprenticeships and more say over the employment of temporary
workers.  The union rejected as a “provocation” a 3 percent wage
increase offered April 19 by the Gesamtmetall manufacturing
employers’ association Baden-Wuerttemberg branch.  Further strikes planned for today include protests in
Freiburg with a motorcade carrying 650 workers from Daimler,
 General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Solar-Fabrik AG (SFX)  and other metalworking and
electronics companies in the area, Marco Sprengler, an IG Metall
spokesman in the southern German city, said by telephone on
April 30.  More Talks  As many as 4,500 workers at Audi’s plant in Neckarsulm,
where the luxury carmaker builds such models as the A4, A6 and
A8, may take part in a stoppage May 3, coinciding with an hour-
long protest rally by as many as 2,500 Porsche workers in
Stuttgart, IG Metall representatives said April 30.  Strikes so far have included 400 MAN AG employees in
Augsburg and 250 TDK Corp. workers in Munich, according to the
IG Metall website. Volkswagen workers in Zwickau, near the Czech
Republic border, also took part in the protests.  The next talks between  IG Metall  and Suedwestmetall, the
Baden-Wuerttemberg branch of the employers’ association, are
scheduled to resume on May 8 and continue on May 15 if needed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net 
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  