-- Dallas Museum Seeks to Shade Pension-Backed Tower’s Glare
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-05-02T20:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/dallas-museum-seeks-to-shade-pension-backed-tower-s-sunny-glare.html
A Dallas pension fund’s glass-skinned
apartment tower may need costly changes after the Nasher
Sculpture Center, home to works by Degas, Picasso and Rodin,
complained of damaging light and heat reflected by the building.  The dispute over the 42-floor Museum Tower highlights the
risks taken by the $3.1 billion Dallas Police & Fire Pension
System. With 52 percent of assets invested in recent years in
such alternatives as the $200 million tower and the “American
Idol” production company, it takes more risk than any U.S.
public retirement plan, according to researcher Preqin Ltd.  With the benchmark  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of equities
producing a 1.2 percent loss, including reinvested dividends,
for the five years through 2011, pension managers have turned to
hedge funds, private equity and real estate to boost returns.
The Dallas plan has taken that approach to an extreme, said
 Andrew Biggs , a former deputy commissioner of the U.S. Social
Security Administration.  “They say risk doesn’t matter to the government, but it
does,” said Biggs, who has studied pensions as a resident
scholar at the  American Enterprise Institute  in  Washington , a
business-backed research organization. “I don’t think anyone
would say you should have half your assets in alternatives.”  Potential Cost  The strategy raises the potential cost for Dallas
taxpayers, who back the pension, and more than 9,100 police
officers, firefighters and retirees, who might have to make
higher contributions or accept lower benefits if the fund’s
investments turn out to be losers.  Units in the luxury condominium, designed by architect
Scott Johnson, are being quoted at $1.2 million to $4.1 million,
according to Dallas Realtor Rich Patterson’s  website . Marketers
tout nearby amenities such as the Nasher. The neighborhood also
is home to the Dallas Museum of Art and the Morton H. Meyerson
Symphony Center.  Auguste Rodin,  Pablo Picasso ,  Edgar Degas  and Willem de Kooning are among the artists represented in the Nasher’s
galleries. Started by the late Ray Nasher, a retail mall
developer, the center’s core collection is drawn from his
acquisitions that began in the 1950s. Designed by Pritzker Prize
winner  Renzo Piano  and Peter Walker, the center opened in 2003.  Glare From Glass  After construction workers began attaching reflective glass
last year to the Museum Tower across the street, Nasher
officials grew concerned about damage to art and plants in the
sculpture garden. They relocated some pieces to escape the glare
and erected special shades for others, according to local news
reports. Work is scheduled to be completed later this year.  The tower’s pension-fund owner and Nasher officials are
negotiating to find a resolution to the glare, according to a
statement on the fund’s website by George Tomasovic, a
firefighter who leads the retirement plan’s trustees.  During the negotiations, both sides have agreed to not
comment to reporters, he said. The agreement was confirmed by
Kristen Gibbins, a Nasher spokeswoman.  “Both parties are working in good faith to find a
solution,” Tom Luce, a Dallas lawyer who is helping to
facilitate an agreement, said by e-mail. Both sides are
referring requests for comment to the attorney.  Committed Neighbor  The pension may have to take action to correct the glare,
according to Tomasovic. Local news accounts have “unfairly and
inaccurately described our commitment to being a good neighbor
and resolve the reflection issue,” he said in a video on the
fund’s website. He said the fund hopes to “preserve the
architectural integrity of both properties.”  Consultants have been hired to study the issues, Tomasovic
said, and those reports should be complete by mid-May. He
expects a solution within a few months.  “It’s a stunningly beautiful building that’s bringing
luxury residential living to the Dallas arts district,”
Tomasovic said in the recorded message, which has since been
removed from the website. “A lot of people are saying when it
is finished it will be one of the most prestigious residential
addresses in the country.”  The  fund’s  2010 net return on invested assets of about 11
percent, while exceeding the plan’s 8.5 percent assumed rate,
fell from almost 16 percent in 2009, according to its most-
recent financial report. The gains followed years of losses that
came after the drop in equities spurred by the credit-market
collapse that began in 2007.  ‘Enough Return’  “If you get those kind of returns, it looks like it
justifies the risk,” said  Lynn Turner , a former chief
accountant with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission who
has studied public-pension issues. “The question is, are they
getting enough return for the risk they are taking?”  The plan had almost 80 percent of assets needed to cover
projected liabilities at the end of 2010, down from about 82
percent a year earlier. The average state pension had a funding
ratio of about 74 percent in fiscal 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Actuaries generally consider 80 percent
adequate to meet future obligations to retirees.  In 2010, Money Management Letter cited the Dallas plan as
“one of the best-diversified funds in the U.S.” after the
pension embarked on its new strategy a year earlier. The
newsletter mentioned investments in Australian crops, Uruguayan
timber and “a stake in the company that produces ‘ American
Idol .’” The fund also has backed rebuilding Dallas-area roads.  Reducing Risk  The pension fund’s overseers decided to diversify in 2006
to “reduce public equity risk,” according to a memo put out by
the plan. The board of trustees based the decision on studies
that projected safer and greater returns from other types of
assets compared with publicly traded shares.  For all the extra risk of holding such alternative assets,
the fund would have beaten them in 2010 by concentrating on its
stock and bond portfolios, which returned 17 percent and 16
percent, respectively. The  S&P 500  had a  total return  of about
15 percent that year. The plan’s investments in real estate
gained almost 3.1 percent and private equity delivered about 12
percent, according to the 2010 annual report.  Last year, the fund asked members to approve benefit limits
after projections showed assets “would deteriorate over the
next few years to levels that threatened the system’s ability”
to meet future obligations, according to a July 2011 letter in
the fund’s annual report.  Even after the members approved the changes, the fund’s
liabilities exceeded assets to pay benefits by $885.5 million,
according to the report.  “Stuff like that seems silly to me,” said Biggs. “Their
jobs is to protect the taxpayers and the pensioners.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  