-- Dewey, Skadden, Blank Rome, Quinn Emanuel: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-05-02T10:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/dewey-skadden-blank-rome-quinn-emanuel-business-of-law.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP is preparing to
liquidate its U.K. office while its U.S. practice plans to
collect its bills and stay in business, a firm executive and two
people familiar with the situation said.  The  London  office of the New York-based law firm has
appointed a committee including restructuring lawyer Mark Fennessy and banking lawyer  Bruce Johnston  to review its options
to wind down or close the business, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the matter is private. More
than 25 partners work at Dewey’s London operation, said one of
the people.  In New York, the firm is near an agreement with banks about
extending a  credit line  and intends to stave off bankruptcy by
collecting bills to pay lenders and transferring employees and
property to other firms, said  Martin Bienenstock , one of four
members of Dewey’s chairman’s office. Dewey is talking with
potential merger partners and its lenders are being cooperative,
he said.  “Bankruptcy is always a last resort and is not in current
plans,” Bienenstock said in an e-mail yesterday. “If real
property and equipment leases are assumed by other firms or
renegotiated, and the lenders realize on their accounts
receivable and inventory, there may be no need.”  More than 85 partners have left the U.S. firm in recent
weeks, including three yesterday. Stuart M. Saft, a real estate
attorney, joined Holland & Knight LLP as partner and co-chair of
its New York real estate practice group. He was previously
partner and chair of Dewey’s global real estate practice. Ilan S. Nissan and Christian C. Nugent joined Goodwin Procter LLP’s
private-equity practice as partners in the  New York  office.  Angelo Kakolyris, a spokesman for Dewey in the U.S., didn’t
return an e-mail or call seeking comment on the firm’s plans.
Calls and e-mails to Fennessy and Johnston weren’t immediately
answered. Peter Sharp, the managing partner of the London
office, didn’t reply to requests for comment.  Dewey management sent a memo to all the firm’s partners
April 30 informing them that they are free to explore other job
opportunities, said a person familiar with the contents of the
document. The firm is carrying on business as usual and at the
same time trying to find employment for legal and non-legal
staff, according to the person who saw the memo and who declined
to be identified because the information is private.  “Our memo did not encourage people to leave,” Bienenstock
said yesterday in his e-mail. “Rather, it explained that the
partners who don’t want to be part of a merger could look
elsewhere. This way they would not be otherwise inhibited by
duties to the partnership.”  No single firm currently appears willing to buy all of what
is left of Dewey, according to a person familiar with the
situation. Dewey now is talking with several firms that might
take parts of its specialized practice groups, as part of a
bankruptcy plan devised with lenders’ consent, said the person,
who declined to be named because the talks are private.  Patton Boggs LLP, based in Washington, is among the firms
conferring with Dewey, said the person. SNR Denton, which has
headquarters in Washington and London, is also in talks with
Dewey on a possible merger, according to a person familiar with
the discussions. The firm declined to comment.  For more, click here.  News Corp. (NWSA)  Should Waive Law Firm’s Privilege, U.K. Lawmakers Say  U.K. lawmakers called on News Corp. to allow its former
criminal defense firm to reveal details on a 2006 internal probe
into phone-hacking at the company’s now-defunct News of the
World tabloid.  News Corp.’s “legal privilege” with BCL Burton Copeland
should be waived so the London-based law firm can defend claims
it helped with a cover-up, the  House of Commons Culture
Committee  said yesterday. News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch 
told an ethics inquiry last week that lawyers and lower-ranking
executives at its News International unit are to blame for his
ignorance about the extent of phone hacking until late 2010.  Murdoch’s claim “that a cover-up has taken place at the
company may mean that the investigations conducted by Burton
Copeland have been used by people at News International to
perpetrate a falsehood,” lawmakers said in a  report  about the
scandal. “We believe there is a strong argument that the
company has no right to restrain disclosure of the file.”  The committee, investigating the scandal for the second
time in six years, said the tabloid’s former editor  Colin Myler 
and legal manager Tom Crone misled Parliament and found Murdoch
is “not a fit person” to lead a major international company.
Police investigating hacking and bribery at News Corp.’s U.K.
titles have made 45 arrests, while Britain’s media watchdog is
probing whether the company should retain its stake in pay-
television provider  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Legal privilege prevents a law firm from sharing notes, e-
mails, reports and other documents related to its work without
permission from the client. Judge Brian Leveson, who is
overseeing the independent media-ethics inquiry triggered by the
scandal, raised the issue of privilege preventing some remaining
questions from being answered, such as how much information
executives had about the scandal, and when they had it.  Messages left at Burton Copeland and News International
seeking comment on the privilege issue weren’t returned.  Burton Copeland was hired by News International to conduct
a probe after the News of the World royal reporter  Clive Goodman 
was arrested more than five years ago. News Corp. claimed the
firm’s investigation, where it reviewed e-mails and financial
records, found no evidence of widespread phone hacking.  Burton Copeland parted ways with News Corp. last year and
said in September its role was limited to providing documents to
the police and that it wasn’t asked to carry out a full probe.  Harbottle & Lewis LLP, another law firm that worked for
News International, denied claims made by Murdoch to the
committee last year that it gave the company a clean bill of
health after reviewing the matter. The law firm wrote to
lawmakers saying Murdoch was “confused or misled” in his
testimony.  Murdoch told lawmakers last year he “rested” on findings
from the two law firms, as well as from police, that phone
hacking had been limited to a single “rogue” reporter. He told
the ethics inquiry last week he should have taken matters into
his own hands.  For more, click here.  Diet-Drug Lawyers Lose Appeal of Convictions for Fund Theft  Two disbarred Kentucky lawyers sentenced to prison for
stealing from a $200 million fen-phen diet-drug settlement fund
failed to persuade a federal appeals court to lighten their
punishment.  “The evidence of the defendants’ guilt in this case was
overwhelming,” the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Cincinnati said
yesterday in upholding the 2009 convictions and sentences of
William Gallion and Shirley Cunningham Jr.  Gallion was sentenced to 25 years and Cunningham to 20
years for their April 2009 conviction on nine criminal counts
including  wire fraud  and conspiracy. The appeals court also
upheld the trial judge’s order requiring the two men to pay more
than $127 million to former clients who were victims of the
fraud.  The criminal charges were connected to a $200 million
settlement between American Home Products Corp. and Kentucky
residents who claimed they were harmed by the once-popular fen-
phen diet drug combination.  During the trial, prosecutors showed jurors evidence that
Gallion and Cunningham had contracts entitling both men to fees
of as much as one-third of the settlement. The lawyers tried to
keep more than twice that amount, prosecutors said.  Gallion will seek a hearing by the entire appellate court,
his attorney, H. Louis Sirkin, said in a phone interview
yesterday. If that fails, Gallion will seek review by the U.S.
Supreme Court, he said.  “We’re not done yet,” Sirkin said.  T. Clifton Harviel, Cunningham’s lawyer, said he was
disappointed by the decision.  “We’re considering our options,” Harviel said in a phone
interview. “Most likely, the next move is asking for an en banc
hearing.”  The case is U.S. v. Cunningham, 09-5987/5988, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati).  For more, click here.  Fees  WexTrust Judge Says He’s ‘Deeply Concerned’ About Fee Bids  A judge overseeing the liquidation of WexTrust Capital LLC,
whose founders are serving prison terms for fraud, told lawyers
he’s “deeply concerned” about the professional fees that have
been charged in the case.  Denny Chin, a former federal district judge who continued
to supervise the WexTrust case after his 2010 promotion to the
U.S. appeals court in New York, told lawyers yesterday that he
has received complaints about the fees from victims of the
WexTrust fraud.  In a report to Chin in February,  Timothy Coleman , the
lawyer appointed as receiver for WexTrust and related companies,
said that the estate had paid about $15.9 million in
professional fees through the end of last year, including
$9.4 million to his former law firm, Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP;
$136,350 to his current firm, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
LLP; and $4.1 million to Deloitte Financial Advisory Services
LLP.  Joseph Shereshevsky, 55, and Steven Byers, 49, the founders
of Chicago-based WexTrust, were arrested in August 2008 and
charged with fraud. A lawsuit by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission claimed they defrauded investors of $255
million. In 2009, Chin approved a distribution plan under which
Coleman estimated the defrauded victims would receive between 5
percent and 50 percent of their losses.  The receiver, who was selected to oversee WexTrust in
August 2008, has so far distributed $5 million to about 1,300
victims, he said in the February report.  Several of the victims have complained about what they
consider excessive charges for legal and accounting work.  “There are many objections to the payment of any further
fees,” Chin said yesterday.  Chin was asked yesterday to approve new fee requests,
including those of Freshfields and Deloitte. He said he will
rule on the requests this week.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Byers, 08-cv-7104. U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  Firm News  Boutique Firm Closes; Blank Rome and Manatt Take Partners  Washington  white-collar litigation boutique Janis, Schuelke
& Wechsler has closed its doors with two name partners, Henry F. Schuelke III and Lawrence H. Wechsler joining Blank Rome LLP as
partners. N. Richard “Dick” Janis joined Manatt, Phelps &
Phillips LLP as a partner in the corporate investigations and
white-collar defense practice in Washington.  Janis, Schuelke was involved in investigations including
Adelphia Communications Corp., Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc.,
Blank Rome said in a statement.  The three partners, in a letter on their website, said the
decision to shutter the office stemmed from “the need to
accommodate differing goals and time commitments for the
remainder of our careers, as well as a desire to ensure that all
of our employees are well situated in the coming years.”  Schuelke and Wechsler have more than 40 years’ experience
in white-collar criminal defense, FCPA, antitrust, corporate
internal investigations and compliance, fraud and abuse, health-
care fraud and environmental matters, Blank Rome said.  Janis focuses his practice on the defense of white-collar
investigations and prosecutions of corporations and individual
clients. He also handles a variety of civil matters and often
counsels corporations, their officers and boards on matters
ranging from antitrust enforcement to shareholder derivative
claims, Manatt said in a statement.  Blank Rome has 12 offices with more than 500 attorneys.
Manatt has five offices in  California , two in New York and one
in Washington.  Quinn Emanuel Opens Second German Office in Hamburg  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP opened an office in
Hamburg, the firm’s second office in  Germany .  The office, which will focus on intellectual property and
related antitrust litigation, will open with 11 lawyers
following the hiring of a team from Allen & Overy LLP. Nadine
Herrmann, the former head of Allen & Overy’s German intellectual
property group, will be the Hamburg office’s managing partner,
Quinn Emanuel said.  “In today’s world, big intellectual property disputes are
global. Any major patent dispute includes an EU component,”
firm managing partner John Quinn said. “Germany is the
epicenter of EU patent litigation. The EU is at the forefront of
antitrust implications of patent litigation. Nadine has the
ideal background to deal with these complex issues.”  Former Allen & Overy patent litigation partner Marcus
Grosch joined Quinn Emanuel two years ago to open the firm’s
Mannheim office.  Quinn Emanuel has more than 600 lawyers with offices in  Los
Angeles , New York,  San Francisco , Silicon Valley, Washington,
 Chicago ,  Tokyo , London, Mannheim, Moscow and Hamburg.  Moves  OFAC Chief Counsel Thornton Joins Skadden in Washington  Sean M. Thornton, chief counsel of the Office of Foreign
Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department, has joined
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP’s financial
institutions regulation and enforcement group in the Washington
office.  Thornton joined the Treasury Department in 2001 and has
been OFAC’s chief counsel since 2005. He has supervised high-
profile legal matters for OFAC, including global settlements
with U.S. and foreign banks and the successful defense of OFAC’s
authorities in relation to counterterrorism issues and sanctions
against Cuba and Iraq, the firm said.  “Sean’s ability to help clients navigate the evolving
international financial regulatory landscape and new enforcement
regime will be a tremendous asset to our clients,” William J. Sweet Jr., head of Skadden’s financial institutions regulation
and enforcement group, said in a statement.  Skadden has more than 1,800 lawyers in 23 offices
worldwide.  Competition Practice Lawyer Joins Bird & Bird in London  Peter Willis is joining the London office of Bird & Bird
LLP as a partner in the international EU and competition
practice group.  Willis was previously at Dundas & Wilson LLP, where he
headed the EU and competition practice, the firm said. Willis
has competition and regulatory experience in the energy sector,
and competition experience in the pharmaceuticals and technology
industries, Bird & Bird said.  Bird & Bird said its EU and competition team has about 40
lawyers around  Europe  who work closely with international sector
groups, particularly within information technology,
communications, media and energy. The firm has more than 900
lawyers in 23 offices across Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  