-- Dewey Breakup Quickens as M&A Chief, London Group Leave
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-05-03T19:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/dewey-partners-said-to-be-told-to-send-bills-forgo-monthly-pay.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, which has lost
more than a third of its partners in recent weeks, saw its
merger and acquisition chief and a team of  London  litigators
depart as the price of its bonds slumped in private trades.  M&A chief Morton Pierce is leaving today with seven other
partners to join White & Case LLP in New York, he said in a
telephone interview. London managing partner Peter Sharp, Nick
Greenwood and David Waldron are joining Morgan Lewis & Bockius
LLP in London, Morgan Lewis said in a statement.  Dewey’s privately placed bonds, sold in 2010 to insurance
companies to refinance older bank loans, have fallen as low as
45 cents to 55 cents on the dollar, from a trade in the 60s on
April 27, said Kevin Starke, an analyst at CRT Capital Group
LLC, in a report today.  Dewey, based in  New York , is in “an apparent death
spiral,” Starke wrote.  Dewey, whose bank loans are partly secured with money due
from clients, told  partners  they can’t have their monthly pay
until they send all the bills for their services, a person
familiar with the matter said.  Dewey is under orders from bankers to collect as much money
owed to the firm as possible after the departure of about 90
partners and the ouster of chairman Steven Davis, according to
another person familiar with Dewey’s finances. The banks are
reluctant to put the firm into bankruptcy as that might make it
harder to collect the bills, that person said. Both people
didn’t want to be identified because the matter wasn’t public.  White & Case  Pierce is joining  White & Case  along with seven other
partners, he said. He’s leaving because of the turmoil at Dewey,
he said.  “Everyone knows what’s going on at Dewey,” he said.  Pierce and Denise Cerasani will be joining with six
partners who can’t be named for legal reasons, White & Case
chairman Hugh Verrier said in an internal memo sent to all staff
and seen by Bloomberg.  “Two of our strategic priorities have been to strengthen
our global M&A practice and expand our New York office,”
Verrier wrote in the memo. “These new partners will help us
achieve both of these priorities.”  Deal Adviser  Dewey & LeBoeuf ranks ninth among legal advisers to merger
deals over the last twelve months, with 93 deals worth about
$119 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its
biggest deal was Express Scripts Holding Co.’s acquisition of
Medco Health Solutions Inc., announced in July with a value of
about $34 billion.  Dewey’s London departures follow those of London project
finance lawyer Nabil Khodadad to Vinson & Elkins LLP, tax lawyer
Julio Castro to KPMG and  Stephen Walters , who resigned, a
spokesman for Dewey said.  The law firm is preparing to liquidate its U.K. office, two
people familiar with the situation said. The London office
appointed a committee including restructuring lawyer Mark Fennessy and banking lawyer Bruce Johnston to review its options
to wind down or close the business, said the people, who
declined to be named because the matter is private.  By last month, Dewey had drawn about $75 million of a $100
million  credit line  from banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , a person familiar with their finances said.  Lenders were considering a 120-day extension of the credit
line until a possible combination of the firm with Greenberg
Traurig LLP fell through, the person said.  Huge Expense  “The banks know that Chapter 11 will add another whole
layer of huge expense and involve years of litigation with
little gained,” said  Anthony Sabino , a lawyer and professor at
the Peter J. Tobin College of Business at  St. John’s University 
in New York.  Clients of CRT, which trades distressed debt, are bidding
on the bonds, Starke said in an e-mail. Hedge fund investors who
buy distressed debt are among those who are looking at the
bonds, he said.  Dewey was the 11th-largest U.S. law firm with 1,300 lawyers
after a merger during the 2007 recession.  Talks with SRN Denton and other law firms about a possible
transaction are continuing,  Michael Sitrick , a spokesman for
Dewey, said today in a statement. He declined to say in an e-
mail if the talks were about a merger or transfer of lawyers
from Dewey.  A merger with SNR Denton would depend on the combined law
firm’s ability to raise hundreds of millions of dollars in
financing, the Wall Street Journal said yesterday, citing people
familiar with the matter to report that prospects for a deal had
fallen apart.  Jeff Scalzi, a SNR Denton spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on talks with Dewey.  Outsourced Employees  In the firm’s Manhattan offices, employees for outsourced
services have gone and Dewey’s own support staff may be
gradually dismissed as more lawyers leave for other firms, said
the first person familiar with Dewey’s situation. Contrary to
some online reports, the photocopiers are still there and the
computers are working, the person said.  Dewey is trying to help employees find other jobs, the
person said. The person plans to take assistants and paralegals
with him when he leaves the firm.  Mailroom  The law firm’s mailroom and photocopiers are handled by a
contractor, according to a third person familiar with the firm’s
situation. At a meeting yesterday, Dewey’s four employees who
handle desktop support were told that their jobs would end May
4, and they would be paid salary and accrued time, the person
said. A manager told them that the banks were in control of the
firm, said the person, who didn’t want to be identified because
the matter wasn’t public.  The group was also told that there may be a skeleton staff
of support people who would be asked to stay on to complete the
remaining business of Dewey, the person said.  Dewey was created by the merger of Dewey Ballantine and
LeBoeuf Lamb Greene & MacRae in October 2007, during the credit
crisis. The marriage produced an international firm with offices
in 25 cities and revenue of more than $900 million. LeBoeuf Lamb
Chairman Davis took the helm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net 
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  