-- Dimon Cites ‘Give and Take’ After Bank Chiefs Meet at Fed
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   H e a t h e r   H a u s w i r t h
-- 2012-05-02T17:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/dimon-says-bank-chiefs-will-discuss-everything-at-fed-meeting.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said there was “give and take” when bank
leaders met with Federal Reserve officials to discuss industry
oversight in New York today.  Dimon, who said “everything” was a potential topic as he
and other CEOs entered the New York Fed’s offices, declined to
elaborate on the talks as he left. Top executives were scheduled
to meet with Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo today, four people
familiar with the meeting said earlier this week.  Lenders including New York-based JPMorgan, the largest and
most profitable U.S. bank, are resisting Fed efforts to impose
tougher restrictions on too-big-to-fail firms whose collapse
could hurt the broader economy. Banks have pressed the Fed to
explain assumptions used on this year’s stress tests and have
criticized the central bank’s proposed rules including limits on
counterparty risk.  “It’s great that people get together and collaborate, talk
about the facts and the analysis, all in the interest of having
a great financial system,” Dimon, 56, said as he arrived. “The
better we do here, the better it will be for the U.S. economy.”  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s  James Gorman  and  State Street Corp. (STT) ’s
Joseph Hooley were among CEOs seen at the building. Dimon helped
organize the gathering, two of the people with knowledge of the
plans had said.  Potential topics included the Fed’s proposal to impose
tougher standards on concentration of risk than Congress
mandated. Firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  have objected
to a 10 percent limit on counterparty risk for the biggest
firms, saying it would hamper credit and cut economic growth.
The cap is stricter than a 25 percent limit in the Dodd-Frank
financial-overhaul law.  Trade Groups’ Concerns  Firms have also said regulators should disclose more about
the models and methods used in stress tests of U.S. financial
firms. The stress tests showed that 15 of 19 banks would be able
to maintain capital levels above a regulatory minimum in an
“extremely adverse” economic scenario, even while continuing to
pay dividends and repurchasing stock, the Fed said on March 13.  Five banking trade groups led by the Clearing House
Association have told the Fed it’s not fair to ask lenders to
pass a test and manage their companies accordingly “if the
parameters are largely unknown.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Hauswirth in  New York  at 
 hhauswirth@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 