-- Dollar Libor Steady for Sixth Day as Money Market Stresses Ease
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-02T13:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/dollar-libor-steady-for-sixth-day-as-money-market-stresses-ease.html
The rate London-based banks say they
pay for three month dollar loans held steady for the sixth
consecutive day as stresses in the money markets ease.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  was  0.46585 percent, unchanged from yesterday and
at the same rate for every trading day since April 24, according
to the British Bankers’ Association. The rate is down from as
high this year as 0.5825 percent on Jan. 3.  The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks reluctance to lend,
was 32.1 basis points, compared with 32.2 basis points
yesterday. The gap was as high as 51 basis points this year on
Jan. 6. Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions
on where the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the
term of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, were little changed at 32.75 basis points
for June, compared with 32.4 basis points yesterday, according
to UBS AG data.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, was 28.3 basis points, up from 27.98 basis points
yesterday. The gap is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S.
banking sector credit risk as swap rates are derived from
expectations for dollar Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks
for investors in many types of debt, including mortgage-backed
and auto-loan securities.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market fell. The three-month cross-currency basis
swap was 43.5 basis points below Euribor, compared to 45 basis
points below yesterday. The basis swap rate was minus 162.5
basis points on Nov. 30.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The market for corporate borrowing through U.S.  commercial
paper  contracted. The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.
 commercial paper  declined $6.7 billion to $925.9 billion
outstanding in the week ended April 25, the third fall in four
weeks, according to Federal Reserve data compiled by Bloomberg.
Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in 270
days or less, to fund everyday activities such as paying rent
and salaries.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, rose. The
measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another rose to 40
basis points from 39 basis points yesterday. The measure has
fallen from 95 basis points at the start of the year.  Basis Swaps  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was minus 29.1 basis points, compared to
minus 28.7 yesterday. A negative swap price indicates investors
are willing to receive reduced interest payments on the yen they
lend in order to obtain the needed financing in dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  