-- Dollar Proves Top Choice With Record Asia Sales
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-05-02T16:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/dollar-proves-top-choice-with-record-asia-sales.html
Borrowers in  Asia  issued a record
amount of dollar-denominated bonds in April as they sought funds
to expand in the world’s fastest-growing region and tapped
investor demand amid a drop in global debt sales.  From China to  South Korea  and Indonesia, offerings surged
to $15.5 billion, the most for any month in data compiled by
Bloomberg going back to 1999. That compares with a 45 percent
slump in corporate bond sales worldwide to $223.3 billion, the
least since December.  PT Pertamina, Indonesia’s state-owned oil-and-gas company,
and China’s Cnooc Ltd. led issuance in an economy that will grow
7 percent this year, more than triple global output, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on Asian corporate debt
fell to 5.1 percent from a more than two-year high of 7.3
percent in October, dropping about three times as fast as global
peers, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  “Growth in Asia is solid and corporates need money,”  Tim Condon , the chief Asia economist at ING Financial Markets in
 Singapore , said in a telephone interview on April 30. “Issuers
don’t need the money in the advanced economies, as the U.S. is
limping along and the  euro zone  is in an outright recession.”  Pertamina raised $2.5 billion from the  sale  of 10- and 30-
year bonds last week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
company plans to boost spending to “significantly increase
production,” according to an April 19  Fitch Ratings  report.  Cnooc Cuts Costs  Cnooc, China’s largest producer of offshore crude oil, cut
borrowing costs by half a percentage point when it sold the
largest dollar bond by a Chinese company in more than a year
last week. The state-controlled oil and gas explorer offered
$1.5 billion of notes due May 2022 to yield 3.891 percent, or
0.54 percentage point less than its sale of 10-year debt in
January 2011. It also issued $500 million of 30-year securities.  There are “some exciting opportunities for issuers looking
to extend the maturity on their funding,” Duncan Phillips, a
director in Citigroup Inc.’s Asia debt syndicate in  Hong Kong ,
said last week in an interview.  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
company credit risk rose from the lowest level in almost a
month, with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, climbing by 0.6 basis point to a mid-price of
94.5 basis points as of 12:30 p.m. in  New York , according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Rate Swap Spreads  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, ended yesterday at the
lowest since April 4. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, increased 0.27 basis point to 28.25 basis
points as of 12:30 p.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of Chesapeake Energy Corp. are the most actively
traded U.S. corporate securities by dealers today, with 187
trades of $1 million or more as of 12:31 p.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Chesapeake reported an unexpected first quarter loss and
cut cash-flow estimates by as much as 48 percent while
increasing the amount of assets it plans to sell, according to a
statement from the Oklahoma City-based gas driller. The
company’s $1.3 billion of 6.775 percent bonds due March 2019
fell 4 cents to 94.9 cents on the dollar as of 12:20 p.m. in New
York, Trace data show.  Hutchison-Whampoa  Asian dollar bond sales may reach a record $90 billion by
year-end, Mark Reade, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at Credit
Agricole SA, said by telephone this week. Issuance totaled $51.2
billion this year, the data show.  Offerings in 2012 may rise to as much as $100 billion,
according to Anthony Arnaudy, the Hong Kong-based head of debt
capital markets at  Standard Chartered  Plc. The bank forecasted
$81 billion of Asia dollar-denominated sales at the start of the
year, he said.  Hutchison-Whampoa Ltd., billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s biggest
company, is marketing $1 billion of dollar-denominated perpetual
notes today to yield 6 percent, according to a person familiar
with the offering.  “Once the light switch is on, everything is arguing in
favor of issuance,” said Condon at ING. “That light switch was
flipped at the end of 2011 and it’s going to remain on all year.
It’s going to be a great year for the bankers.”  ‘Longer-Dated Offerings’  HSBC Holdings Plc and JPMorgan have managed the most Asian
dollar bond sales this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Standard Chartered is in third place. Citigroup and
Barclays Plc arranged the  Cnooc (883)  and Pertamina deals.  “We’ve had a busy Asia pipeline over the last few weeks
and one of the main themes coming through is the extremely
strong demand for our longer-dated offerings,” said Phillips at
Citigroup.  Emerging-market bond funds had inflows for 12 straight
weeks through the first week of April, according to data from
EPFR Global, a U.S. provider of fund flows. Investors put $540
million into emerging-market fixed-income funds in the week
ended April 25, EPFR said.  Asian corporate debt returned 5.67 percent this year as
U.S. company bonds gained 3.75 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Global Economy  The extra yield investors demand to own notes of companies
in Asia instead of government debt shrank almost 1 percentage
point to 4.12 percentage points at the end of April, according
to the Merrill Lynch indexes. The spread on U.S. corporate bonds
tightened 0.54 percentage point to 2.03 percentage points.  Asia will probably outperform the global economy, which
analysts estimate will expand 2.27 percent by Dec. 31, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The so-called BRIC nations of
 Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and China are forecast to expand 6.52
percent in 2012. Asia has grown faster than all other regions
since 2008, the data show.  Moody’s raised  Indonesia ’s credit rating to Baa3, or the
lowest investment grade, in January following a similar move by
Fitch Ratings a month earlier. S&P affirmed the nation’s rating
at BB+ April 23.  Pertamina’s offering was its third after the company first
tapped the international market in May 2011. The Jakarta-based
company’s $1 billion of May 2021 notes traded at 304 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries yesterday,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices. The
securities were sold at a spread of 235 basis points a year ago.  Oil Discoveries  Mochamad Harun, a spokesman for Pertamina, declined to
comment on the latest offering, saying that the company would
make a statement in due course.  The day before its bond sale, Beijing-based Cnooc said it
had made five new oil discoveries this year, which would help it
reach its goal of increasing annual production by as much as 10
percent.  “The new offering further implements the company’s
strategic plan to enhance our financial flexibility by tapping
various funding sources to support business growth,” Zhong Hua,
the chief financial officer of Cnooc, said in a statement to
Hong Kong’s stock exchange on April 26 after the sale.  Cnooc’s media department didn’t immediately respond to two
phone calls and an e-mail requesting comment yesterday, a public
holiday in  China .  Asia Not ‘Immune’  Asia’s economy may falter should  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis intensify, the  International Monetary Fund  warned in a
 report  last week. Also, an economic “hard landing” in China
from a real-estate crash is a low probability risk that may
derail growth around the region, the IMF said.  China is expected to grow 8.4 percent in 2012, down from
9.2 percent last year, according to the median estimate of
economists strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “If we do see an escalation of issues in Europe or with
the U.S. fiscal cliff, Asia won’t be immune,” said Bryan Collins, a  money manager  at FIL Ltd, which operates as Fidelity
Worldwide Investment. “But when there are jitters about
valuations, the prospects for underperformance from Asia is much
less than in Europe or the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  