-- Drydocks Says ‘Exit Strategy’ in Progress for Southeast Asia
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-05-02T15:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/drydocks-says-exit-strategy-in-progress-for-southeast-asia-1-.html
Drydocks World LLC, the Dubai-based
shipyard that’s restructuring $2.2 billion of debt, is working
on an “exit strategy” for its Southeast Asian business.  “An exit strategy is in progress,” Chairman Khamis Buamim
said, when asked about Drydocks World’s Southeast Asian
operations, without providing details. The South East Asian
business is “viable” and the company is “in active
discussions on a joint venture deal,” Buamim has said April 2.  Drydocks World borrowed $2.2 billion to finance two
acquisitions in  Singapore  in 2008 to gain ships and Asian
shipbuilding sites. The company borrowed $1.7 billion for three
years at 170 basis points, or 1.7 percentage points, over the
London interbank offered rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It borrowed another $500 million for five years at
190 basis points over Libor, the data shows.  Drydocks World’s  Dubai unit, the Middle East’s largest
shipyard, carries out vessel conversions, ship building and
offshore construction, apart from ship repairs, mainly of ultra
and very large crude carriers. The company has yards operating
in Singapore and  Indonesia , in Graha, Pertama and Nanindah.  New York-based Monarch Alternative Capital LP, a U.S.-based
company that invests mainly in distressed debt, has not yet
agreed to the company’s debt restructuring proposal, Buamim
said. All creditors will be treated similarly, he said.  Drydocks World today signed an agreement with Swiss company
BIG InvestConsult AG that has access to technology to build
hotels that are partly underwater, the company said in a
statement distributed at a news conference today. Drydocks World
will be the main contractor for the floating hotels and cities
to be built in the  Middle East , it said.  InvestConsult plans to build two clusters of five hotels
each and is selling the idea of building floating resorts across
the world, Bogdan Gutkowski told reporters at the conference.  Each one of the hotels will cost between $50 million to
$120 million to build, Buamim said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  