-- Eastern Water to Boost Spending as Ford, GM Drive Demand
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-05-02T05:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/eastern-water-to-boost-spending-as-ford-gm-drive-demand-1-.html
Eastern Water Resources Development
and Management Pcl (EASTW) ,  Thailand ’s biggest private water seller,
plans to raise  capital spending  40 percent after demand from
manufacturers grew at more than twice the pace it estimated.  Investment on water storage and pipelines will rise to
about 3 billion baht ($97 million) this year from 2.1 billion
baht in 2011, said Chief Executive Officer Praphant Asava-aree.
 Sales volume  increased by 8 percent to 86 million cubic meters
in the first quarter, compared with the company’s estimate of a
3 percent growth rate, he said.  “The company will accelerate the investments to expand
water storage and transportation capacity to prevent a repeat of
severe shortage,” Praphant said in an interview in Bangkok on
April 30. “Manufacturers in the eastern region have had a
strong recovery in their production” after last year’s floods.  Carmakers, petrochemical plants and power producers have
raised output as domestic consumption and investments rebound
following the country’s worst floods in almost 70 years. Eastern
Water is also benefiting from an increase in industrial activity
in eastern Rayong province, where  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Ford
Motor Co. have plants, after some manufacturers partly shifted
production there when their factories in Thailand’s central
region were damaged by the flooding, said Praphant.  Bangkok-based Eastern Water,  controlled  by state-owned
 Provincial Waterworks Authority , sells most of its water to
manufacturers in Rayong. The province, 200 kilometers (125
miles) east of Bangkok, is Thailand’s largest manufacturing hub.  Eastern Water rose as much as 6 percent to 8.90 baht, a
record intraday price, and traded at 8.85 baht as of 12:27 p.m.
in Bangkok. The  shares  have climbed 43 percent this year,
compared with a 21 percent gain in the benchmark  SET Index. (SET)   Car Sales Surge  The floods that ravaged the central region and Bangkok
between September and November disrupted the supply chains of
companies from Apple Inc. to Honda Motor Co. Car production rose
11 percent to a record 190,935 units in March from a year
earlier, the Federation of Thai Industries said on April 19.  Profit this year will beat last year’s record because of an
increase in water shipment and tariffs, said Praphant. The
company in March raised water tariffs for manufacturers by an
average 8 percent, taking advantage of higher demand, he said.  Net income  for the year ended Dec. 31 rose 11 percent to
1.01 billion baht, the highest since the company listed on the
stock market in 1997, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Biggest Beneficiaries’  “Eastern Water will be one of the biggest beneficiaries in
a robust growth of industrial activity in the eastern region
following the floods,” said Siam Tiyanont, an analyst at
Phillip Securities (Thailand) Pcl in Bangkok. “With more
relocation of plants by foreign manufacturers, Eastern Water
will have to secure enough supply to meet with the further jump
in the  water demand .”  Eastern Water is also considering building a distillation
plant to produce fresh water from sea water, said Praphant. The
facility would reduce the company’s reliance on unpredictable
monsoon rains as its main source, he said.  -- Editors:  Garry Smith , Suresh Seshadri  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  