-- ECB May Soften Stance as Draghi’s Recovery Falters
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-05-02T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/ecb-may-soften-stance-as-draghi-s-tentative-recovery-withers.html
Mario Draghi  may have spoken too soon.  Since the European Central Bank President predicted an
economic recovery at the start of the year, data have
increasingly pointed to a deepening recession. While all 58
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg say the ECB will leave its
 benchmark interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent today,
Draghi last week toned down his inflation-fighting rhetoric and
sounded more cautious on the economic outlook, fueling
speculation that he could ease monetary policy further.  “Things haven’t gone Draghi’s way,” said Kristian Toedtmann, senior economist at DekaBank in Frankfurt. “In
contrast to a month ago, the ECB’s bias will now be more toward
an easing than toward an exit strategy.”  Austerity measures aimed at taming the region’s sovereign
debt crisis have pushed the Netherlands and Spain back into
recession and prompted French voters to revolt against President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  with an election looming on May 6. The ECB,
which has already pumped more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) of emergency cash into the banking system, may be
reluctant to add to stimulus as it presses governments to take
responsibility for the crisis.  Policy makers meeting in Barcelona today will announce
their rate decision at 1:45 p.m. and Draghi holds a press
conference 45 minutes later. Officials hold two policy meetings
a year away from their Frankfurt headquarters.  ‘Tentative’ Recovery  In the first three months of this year, Draghi said survey
data showed a “tentative stabilization” of economic activity
at low levels and, while noting the outlook was subject to
downside risks, predicted a gradual recovery.  With the ECB’s three-year loans to banks helping to calm
financial markets, Draghi also told  Germany ’s Bild Zeitung in
March that “the worst is over.”  Survey indicators are now telling a different story.  After rising mildly in January and February, a gauge of
euro-area  manufacturing  plunged in April to the lowest in almost
three years, according to London-based Markit Economics. The
index, based on a poll of  purchasing managers , shows that
manufacturing activity has contracted for nine straight months.  A report yesterday showed euro-area unemployment rose to a
15-year high of 10.9 percent in March, and an economic
confidence indicator published by the European Commission fell
last month to the lowest level since December.  ‘What Will It Take?’  “What will it take for the ECB to cut interest rates?”
said Marchel Alexandrovich, senior European economist at
Jefferies International Ltd. in  London . If it doesn’t act today,
“it will be important to see whether Draghi prepares the
markets for a June move,” he said.  The ECB is due to issue new projections next month. In
March, it revised down its 2012 economic outlook to a
contraction of 0.1 percent from an expansion of 0.3 percent. The
central bank also raised its 2012 inflation forecast to 2.4
percent from 2 percent and started to warn of “upside risks”
to  price stability , indicating policy makers didn’t intend to
ease policy further.  Draghi changed his stance last week.  Delivering a policy statement to lawmakers in Brussels on
April 25, he dropped any mention of upside inflation risks,
omitted reference to an economic recovery and called on
politicians to agree on a “growth compact.”  Since then, Eonia forward contracts have retreated,
signaling investors are increasing bets on rate cuts.  ‘Key Question’  “The ECB has to accept that the recession will be longer
and deeper than forecast only two months ago,” said Jens Sondergaard, senior European economist at Nomura International
Plc in London. “The key question is: Has the economic outlook
deteriorated sufficiently to take rates to a record low or do
they want to see more data?”  Adding to the dilemma are growing divergences between euro-
area economies and concerns within the ECB’s 23-member Governing
Council that more stimulus would take pressure off governments
to make necessary fiscal reforms.  “ Monetary policy  is not a panacea and central bank
firepower is not unlimited, especially not in a monetary union,”
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said on April 23. “We can
only win back confidence if we bring down excessive deficits and
boost competitiveness. And it is precisely because these things
are unpopular that makes it so tempting for politicians to rely
instead on monetary accommodation.”  Diverging Economies  In Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy, business confidence
is at a nine-month high, unemployment is at a two-decade low of
6.8 percent, and workers are winning some of the biggest wage
increases since reunification in 1990. By contrast, unemployment
in Spain is at 24.4 percent and the economy has entered its
second recession since 2009.  Investor concern over  Spain ’s ability to reduce its budget
shortfall has increased since Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
announced in March that the country will miss a 2012 deficit
goal set by the European Union. That pushed Spanish 10-year
yields above 6 percent last month and propelled the cost of
insuring the country’s bonds against default to a record.  “Given that we expect the peripheral situation to continue
deteriorating in a significant way over the coming months, we
expect the ECB to come under increasing pressure as to how it
will respond to renewed stress in the system,” said  Nick Matthews , senior European economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc in London, who forecasts cuts in the benchmark rate in June
and September.  Uncharted Territory  The ECB has shelved its government-bond purchase program
and hinted it doesn’t want to offer banks another round of
three-year loans. A cut in the benchmark rate would take it into
uncharted territory below 1 percent, and raise the issue of
whether to take the 0.25 percent deposit rate to zero.  Even though “the latest indicators were negative,” we
“have not changed our baseline scenario as of this moment,”
ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  told reporters in  Frankfurt 
on April 26. “We have to wait to see what happens in the next
few months to conclude if our baseline scenario is really in
danger or not.”  Michael Schubert , an economist at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt, said policy makers aren’t about to announce
additional stimulus measures, “at least not in the short
term.”  “While the ECB will continue to keep its options open, it
still believes it is up to the governments to take action,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  