-- Hedge Fund Plan Put Off After Co-Founder Has Stroke
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-05-02T21:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/hedge-fund-plan-put-off-after-co-founder-has-stroke.html
Dublin Hill Capital, the investment
firm co-founded by Richard Ruzika, former chief of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ’s special situations group, suspended plans to start
a hedge fund after Ruzika suffered a stroke.  Ruzika, 53, is in intensive care in a Connecticut hospital
after the April 22 stroke, which came three days after having
surgery on his left knee, Joe Howley, Ruzika’s business partner,
said in a telephone interview today.  “He won’t be able to work for the immediate future,”
Howley said.  Ruzika left Goldman Sachs in 2011 after almost 30 years
with the New York-based bank. He was preparing to start Dublin
Hill in Greenwich, Connecticut, with Howley, who previously
worked at  Sempra Energy (SRE)  and Tudor Investment Corp., and Lance
Bakrow, a former Goldman Sachs trader who ran his own firm,
Greenwich Energy Solutions in  Connecticut .  Ruzika joined Goldman Sachs in 1982 as a silver and gold
trader and later became head of natural gas trading in 1996,
according to a February 2011 memo sent to employees when he
left. Ruzika was named a partner in 1998 and that year started
Goldman Sachs’s electricity business before becoming head of
global commodities in 2000.  In 2006 he was named co-head of global macro trading before
he was picked to run Goldman’s special situations group.  Ruzika played football at  Columbia University  and was
signed by the  New York Jets  in 1981 as a tight end before he
decided he didn’t want to play and left training camp, according
to a  New York  Times article at the time.  Dublin Hill had planned to trade a macro strategy, which
seeks to profit from broad economic trends, with a focus on
commodities, Howley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  