-- Edison Says First-Quarter Net Income Falls to $114 Million
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-05-02T21:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/edison-says-first-quarter-net-income-falls-to-114-million.html
Edison International (EIX) , the owner of
California’s second-largest electric utility, said first-quarter
profit declined on lower power prices and higher fuel costs at
its Edison Mission generating unit.  Net income fell to $114 million, or 28 cents a share, from
$214 million, or 61 cents a share, a year earlier, the Rosemead,
California-based company said today in a statement.  Excluding results from a coal plant the company intends to
transfer General Electric Co., per-share profit was 16 cents
less than the 51-cent average of 14  analysts’ estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Sales rose 2.7 percent to $2.86 billion. Net income at the
company’s Southern California Edison utility fell 18 percent to
$182 million compared with a year ago, Edison said.  “Prospects remain strong for rate base and earnings
growth” at Southern  California  Edison, Edison Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Ted Craver said in the statement.  The net loss at the company’s Edison Mission Group widened
to $83 million from $18 million a year ago on lower power prices
and production, according to the statement.  Record warmth led to more than 15,000 temperature records
being broken in the U.S. in March, according to the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Heating demand in
 Illinois , where Edison operates 5,172 megawatts of coal-fired
generation, was  28 percent lower  in the quarter compared with a
year ago.  Power Prices  Power prices in PJM Interconnection LLC’s wholesale
markets, where Edison Mission sells its output, fell 33 percent
from a year earlier to an average of $34.62 per megawatt-hour
during the quarter,  according to data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Edison is seeking to transfer control of its Homer City
coal plant in  Pennsylvania  to its owner, General Electric, after
failing to find financing for pollution-control upgrades. The
company also said in February it would shut two other coal
plants and possibly a third in the U.S. Midwest.  Southern California Edison distributes power to more than
14 million people, according to the utility’s website. Its San
Onofre nuclear power plant, located 60 miles (97 kilometers)
south of  Los Angeles , has been shut since January after
excessive wear was found on steam generator tubes. Inspections
and repairs at the reactors cost the company 4 cents a share for
the quarter.  The earnings statement was issued after the close of
regular trading in  New York . Edison rose 5 cents to $43.72 at
4:15 p.m. in New York.  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  owns the California electric utility with the
most customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 