-- Egypt May Keep Key Interest Rate Unchanged as Economy Struggles
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-05-02T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/egypt-may-keep-key-interest-rate-unchanged-as-economy-struggles.html
Egypt ’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged as the economy
struggles and talks for an International Monetary Fund loan drag
on.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Farouk El- Okdah, will keep the overnight deposit rate at 9.25 percent when
it meets today, according to all seven economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News. The bank usually meets at 3 p.m. and announces
the decision two hours later.  “Growth is still weak and inflation is still high,” Liz Martins, Dubai-based senior economist at HSBC  Middle East , said
in response to e-mailed questions. “The central bank will be
wary of the consequences of a move in either direction.”  The bank raised the rate by a percentage point in November,
citing inflationary pressures, though some economists said it
was intended to prevent a run on the Egyptian pound. The
country’s foreign currency reserves have plunged nearly 60
percent since the uprising against  Hosni Mubarak  last year and
domestic borrowing costs are close to a record high. The economy
is struggling to recover from a drop in investment and tourism.  Growth slowed to 0.4 percent in the final quarter of 2011
from 5.6 percent a year earlier as the economy contracted for
the first time in decades. The annual inflation rate in urban
parts of Egypt, the gauge the central bank monitors, fell in
March to 9 percent from 9.2 percent in February.  Egypt requested a $3.2 billion-loan from the IMF in January
but talks have yet to conclude amid wrangling between the
interim government and the Islamist-dominated parliament.  Loan Support  The IMF said yesterday more work needs to be done before
signing a loan agreement with Egypt, raising the possibility
that the funds won’t be delivered as soon as the Egyptian
government had anticipated. The IMF demands broad political
support for a loan-related economic plan to ensure it is
implemented beyond the transitional period.  Officials with the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice
Party, which makes up the largest bloc in parliament, say they
don’t want money from a possible deal with the IMF disbursed to
the current interim government. The ruling military council says
it will hand power to civilians by the end of June.  Economists such as Raza Agha of the Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc say IMF support is necessary to rebuild investor
confidence in Egypt after the revolt.  The rate decision will come about three weeks before the
first presidential elections since Mubarak’s ouster and follow
deadly clashes in Cairo this week between protesters and unknown
assailants that added to the unrest surrounding the country’s
transition.  Investors would like to see “the return of normalcy” once
the transition is complete, “and that a new elected government
is not held hostage to continued street protests,” said Agha.
“This will very difficult as the expectations associated with
the new government will be very high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  