-- Egypt Presidential Hopefuls Suspend Campaign After Cairo Clashes
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-05-03T03:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/egypt-clashes-kill-9-presidential-hopefuls-suspend-campaign-2-.html
Clashes between Egyptian protesters
and unknown assailants left at least seven people dead, as the
worst street violence in Cairo this year added to the unrest in
the country three weeks before slated presidential elections.  Separately, in an apparent bid to allay continued doubts
about its intention to hand over power as scheduled to a
civilian government by July 1, the ruling military council
indicated that it was considering an even earlier timeframe.  The violence that erupted around dawn yesterday near the
 Defense Ministry  prompted two leading presidential candidates to
announce they were suspending their campaigns in protest.
Mohamed Mursi, who was fielded for the presidency by the Muslim
Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party, put the blame primarily
on the ruling military and said he was suspending his
campaigning for two days.  “The military council, which has security and intelligence
capabilities, must look for the culprits and enforce the law
against those who are trying to derail” the transition to
democracy, Mursi told reporters yesterday. “We hold the
military council responsible because it’s the one that runs the
country, has the authority and the security forces.”  He said that reports that the protesters had been
infiltrated by individuals who sparked the violence must be
investigated. The  Associated Press  said 11 people may have died,
citing medical officials and police records.  The parliament’s lower house, in a statement carried by
MENA, said it was worried that the unrest was fomented by people
intent on derailing the country’s push to democracy after the
ouster of Hosni Mubarak last year.  ‘Diabolic Attempt’  Presidential contender Mohamed Selim el-Awa said in a
statement that the violence was a “diabolic attempt to drag the
country into a crisis from which it could not emerge safely,”
the agency reported. Incidents of fatal street violence last
year were largely blamed by many in Egypt on supporters of
Mubarak.  The fighting, which also left at least 64 wounded according
to Badawi Mohamed, a Health Ministry spokesman, was the latest
outbreak of unrest that has hampered efforts to restore
stability and revive economic growth in Egypt after the popular
uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak . The Islamist-dominated
parliament is calling for the resignation of the military-
appointed government in the run-up to presidential elections due
to begin on May 23. The ruling generals say they will hand over
power after the vote.  Campaign Suspended  Islamist presidential candidate Abdel-Moneim Aboul Fotouh
announced on his Twitter account that he was suspending his
campaign, and said the state “must protect peaceful
demonstrations.”  Police and military forces were deployed to halt the
violence hours after the clashes erupted, Nile News reported.
Many of the protesters were supporters of Hazem Abou Ismail, the
Salafi lawyer-turned-cleric who was disqualified from the
presidential race because his mother held U.S. citizenship
before her death. Abou Ismail has criticized the move as an
attempt to sideline him from the race.  Seif Abu Samra, the head of the prosecutor’s office in the
Cairo neighborhood of Waili, said there were seven killed and
that many of the dead had gunshot wounds. Earlier, the Health
Ministry had reported at least nine were killed.  Mursi’s comments reflect the Brotherhood’s ongoing battle
with the military council over who is to blame for the country’s
woes. The showdown has mired  Egypt  in political paralysis, with
a panel to draft the new constitution disbanded, a $3.2 billion
loan from the  International Monetary Fund  delayed by political
wrangling and the constitutional court due to rule May 6 on the
legitimacy of the parliament.  New Constitution  A meeting yesterday between party leaders and the military
council to discuss the formation of a panel to draft a new
constitution was boycotted by several of the groups, such as the
Freedom and Justice Party and the Wafd, due to the violence. The
military is considering the possibility of handing over power to
a civilian government on May 24 if a clear winner emerges in the
first round of the elections, lawmaker Moustafa Bakri cited
armed forces Chief of Staff Lieutenant General Sami Enan as
saying during the meeting.  A parliamentary committee shot down an earlier proposal for
the committee’s composition, raising doubts whether the charter
will be written and approved before the new president takes
office by the end of June.  Mursi said that the presidential elections should not be
postponed, even though it appeared it would be “difficult” to
finish the constitution before the election. He vowed that if
elected, he would work to ensure that the charter was completed
in a “matter of months, not years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net 
Mariam Fam in Cairo at   mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Digby Lidstone at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net  