-- Telenet Sales Top Estimates as Triple-Play Additions Accelerate
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-05-02T15:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/telenet-sales-top-estimates-as-triple-play-additions-accelerate.html
Telenet Group Holding NV (TNET) , the Belgian
cable operator controlled by  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , reported sales
and earnings that beat analyst estimates after adding the most
triple-play subscribers in more than two years.  First-quarter earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization rose  11 percent  to 192.6 million euros ($253.4
million), the Mechelen, Belgium-based company said today in a
statement. That beat the 187.8 million-euro average of nine
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue climbed 10
percent to 364 million euros, surpassing analyst projections of
356.4 million euros.  Telenet keeps generating incremental revenue from existing
customers as an additional 22,700 subscribers signed up for a
combined offer of digital TV, broadband Internet and fixed
telephony in the quarter. The cable operator maintained its
forecast that revenue  growth will slow  in the second half as the
effect of last year’s price increases and a boost from first-
time subscribers of sport broadcasts fades.  While Chief Executive Officer Duco Sickinghe said the
renewal of the mobile virtual-network operator agreement with
Mobistar SA “strategically ensures Telenet’s future in mobile
telephony,” he also called on the Belgian telecommunications
regulator to assist the development of Telenet and its Walloon
partner Tecteo Group as  Belgium ’s fourth mobile operator by
forcing the existing companies to share network infrastructure
and make use of the spectrum Telenet and Tecteo acquired last
year.  The cable operator reiterated its forecast for stable cash
generation less  capital spending  this year after free  cash flow 
fell 36 percent to 55 million euros in the quarter. Telenet made
a final 10.4 million-euro payment for the Belgian soccer
broadcast rights for the current season and working capital
increased by 21.6 million euros in the quarter, a cash drain
that Telenet expects to reverse during the course of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Mechelen, Belgium at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  