-- Temasek Raises $2.48 Billion Selling China Bank Shares
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-05-03T04:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/temasek-selling-2-4-billion-in-boc-china-construction.html
Temasek Holdings Pte., Singapore’s
state-owned investment company, sold $2.48 billion of shares in
 Bank of China Ltd.  and  China  Construction Bank Corp. less than a
month after investing in their larger rival.  Temasek received about $1.24 billion selling 3.1 billion
Bank of China shares at HK$3.13 apiece, and a similar amount
divesting 1.6 billion shares in China Construction Bank at
HK$5.99 each, according to documents seen by Bloomberg News. The
shares fell by the most in six months and are the worst
performers on Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Bank of China said last week that profit growth slowed to
10 percent in the first quarter as the Chinese economy
decelerated, and China Construction Bank had the slowest
earnings growth in more than two years. Industrial & Commercial
 Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , the world’s largest lender by value that
Temasek invested in last month, extended its lead as the most
profitable global bank after posting a 14 percent increase in
earnings.  “Temasek’s latest sell decision sends a powerful signal to
investors,” Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho
Securities  Asia , wrote in a note today. “Earnings growth for
both banks lagged the sector considerably,” he said, adding
that he “strongly” favors  ICBC. (601398)   ICBC (1398) ’s non-performing loan ratio of 0.89 percent by March
31 was also lower than those of Bank of China and China
Construction Bank. Temasek bought $2.3 billion of shares in
Beijing-based ICBC from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in mid-April.  Shares Drop  Bank of China fell 4 percent to HK$3.13 at 12:04 p.m.,
while China Construction Bank slid 3.3 percent to HK$5.96, both
set for their steepest decline since Nov. 10. The  Hang Seng
Index (HSI)  lost 0.5 percent. Antos said he kept his “underperform”
recommendation on Bank of China and placed China Construction
Bank under review.  The Bank of China shares were sold at the low end of a
HK$3.13 to HK$3.18 price range, according to the term sheets, at
a 4 percent discount to yesterday’s closing price. China
Construction Bank was also priced at the bottom of the HK$5.99
to HK$6.10 range, at a 2.8 percent discount.  Jeffrey Fang , a spokesman for the Singapore investment
company, confirmed the transactions today.  Temasek will continue to hold more than $17 billion in
Chinese bank shares, he said. The firm will retain 7.4 percent
of China Construction Bank’s Hong Kong-traded shares, keeping
its place as the lender’s second-largest shareholder with a
stake valued at $14.1 billion. It also has 3.72 percent of Bank
of China’s shares traded in  Hong Kong , valued at $1.3 billion.  Bank Holdings  Temasek had been increasing holdings in China Construction
Bank and Bank of China as global lenders divest. It bought 3.77
billion shares of China Construction Bank from Bank of America
Corp. on Nov. 11, increasing its stake in the second-largest
Chinese lender by value, and raised its investment in Bank of
China, the nation’s fourth biggest, to 7.07 percent from 6.96
percent after buying 97.1 million shares in August.  “Results for these banks have been pretty fair, given the
operating environment, slower economy and higher  interest
rates ,” said Jeff Papp, senior analyst at Oberweis Asset
Management Inc. in Lisle,  Illinois . “Maybe Temasek is taking a
longer-term view and saying this is as good as it gets.”  The percentage of financial services companies in Temasek’s
holdings rose to 36 percent from 35 percent as of March 2011,
when the firm said it had 193 billion  Singapore  dollars ($156
billion) under management.  China’s economy  expanded last quarter at the slowest pace
in almost three years. The country’s gross domestic product
expanded 8.1 percent in the first three months of 2012 from a
year earlier in the fifth straight quarterly deceleration as
authorities cracked down on property speculation and exports
were hurt by  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Morgan Stanley and Bank of America managed both share sales
as joint bookrunners, the terms show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  