-- Treasuries Snap Gain on Bets Fed to Refrain New Stimulus
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-05-02T04:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/ten-year-u-s-yield-less-than-2-as-investors-seek-haven.html
Treasury 10-year yields, little
changed today, have been less than 2 percent for a week on signs
that the  U.S. economy  is struggling to pick up.  Investors who scooped up  U.S. debt  as a haven from uneven
economic growth and  Europe ’s debt crisis drove an 8.7 percent
rally over the past year as of yesterday, based on Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. The MSCI All-Country World Index
of  stocks  lost 5 percent including dividends. The U.S. is
scheduled to release today the sizes of three auctions set for
next week, and it may announce plans to sell floating-rate debt.  “Treasuries are still a safe haven,” said Tsutomu Komiya,
who helps oversee the equivalent of $111 billion as an investor
in Tokyo at Daiwa Asset Management Co., a unit of  Japan ’s
second-biggest brokerage. “I’m hopeful the U.S. economy will
strengthen, but I may change my opinion.”  U.S. 10-year  yields  were little changed at 1.95 percent as
of 1:07 p.m. in Tokyo, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.
The 2 percent security due in February 2022 changed hands at 100
14/32. The rate slid to a record low of 1.67 percent Sept. 23.
The average over the past decade is 3.83 percent.  Thirty-year yields of 3.15 percent may have trouble rising
past their 200-day moving average of 3.18 percent, Komiya said.
The moving average is seen as a barrier by some traders.  Japan’s 10-year rate held at 0.875 percent, matching the
least since October 2010.  U.S. gross domestic product growth slowed to a 2.2 percent
annual pace in the first quarter from 3 percent in the prior
three months, the Commerce Department reported April 27.
Standard & Poor’s cut  Spain ’s debt rating on April 26,
increasing concern that European governments won’t be able to
pay their debts.  ISM Data  U.S. payrolls rose by 161,000 in April after a 120,000 gain
in March, while the jobless rate stayed at 8.2 percent,
according to economist forecasts before the Labor Department
report May 4.  Treasuries fell yesterday after the Institute for Supply
Management’s factory index rose to 54.8 in April from 53.4 the
month before.  “To argue that the  bond market  is suggesting optimism on
the economy, with 10-year yields below 2 percent, is a little
tough,” said Justin Hoogendoorn, a fixed-income strategist at
 Bank of Montreal (BMO)  unit BMO Capital Markets in Chicago. “At the
margin, there’s a little optimism.”  The government will probably sell $32 billion of 3-year
notes, $24 billion of 10-year securities and $16 billion of the
30-year bonds over three days starting May 8, according to
Wrightson ICAP LLC, an economic advisory company in  Jersey City ,
 New Jersey .  Floating-Rate Bonds  Maturing Treasuries available for reinvestment will total
$36.7 billion, and the sales will raise $35.3 billion of new
cash, according to Wrightson.  The U.S. may also announce plans to sell floating-rate
securities,  Mary Miller , the Treasury Department’s
undersecretary for domestic finance, said Feb. 1.  The  Federal Reserve  plans to sell as much as $1.5 billion
of Treasury Inflation Protected Securities from its holdings
today. The notes will be those maturing from April 2013 to April
2015, according to the Fed Bank of  New York ’s  website . The sales
are part of the central bank’s effort to replace $400 billion of
shorter-term debt in its holdings with longer maturities by the
end of June to hold down borrowing costs.  Policy makers have pledged to keep the benchmark target for
overnight bank lending at almost zero until at least late 2014.
The central bank has also  purchased  $2.3 trillion of debt in two
rounds of quantitative easing, or QE.  Pimco Favors  Fed efforts to support the economy will push the inflation
rate higher, according to  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.  Pimco favors debt in the five-year maturity range, as well
as dividend-paying stocks that yield 3 to 4 percent, Gross said
in his monthly investment outlook on the Newport Beach,
California-based company’s  website  yesterday. Real assets and
commodities should be part of an investor’s portfolio, he wrote.  “Not suddenly, but over time, gradually higher rates of
inflation should be the result of QE policies and zero-bound
yields that will likely continue for years to come,” Gross said
in the report.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the debt, has widened to 2.29 percentage
points from 1.95 percentage points at the end of 2011. The
average over the past decade is 2.14 percentage points.  Three voting members of the  Federal Open Market Committee 
said they don’t see a need to ease policy further.  Fed Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker  said in
Washington that more monetary stimulus risks stoking inflation
while doing little to strengthen the recovery. The San Francisco
Fed’s  John Williams  said the outlook he expects doesn’t warrant
more bond buying, and Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart  repeated that
he’s skeptical of the benefits of such action.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  