-- Enercon Owner Seeks to Block Takeovers of Pioneer Turbine Maker
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-05-02T14:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/enercon-owner-seeks-to-block-takeovers-of-pioneer-turbine-maker.html
The founder of Enercon GmbH, the first
company to boost wind-turbine reliability by ditching gearboxes,
plans to block takeover bids by shifting his stock to a trust.  Aloys Wobben, an engineer who created Enercon in 1984 and
built it into the fifth-largest turbine maker, will place his
stock into the Aloys Wobben Foundation in the “near future,”
the Aurich, Germany-based company said in a  statement  on its
website. Enercon has a 7.9 percent market share, said BTM
Consult, a researcher that’s part of Navigant Consulting Inc.  “Several of the large industrial groups were interested in
the company,” Eduardo Tabbush, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance, said by e-mail. “This move removes that
possibility.” Enercon is attractive because of its technology
and consolidation of the wind industry this year, Tabbush said.  The wind industry Wobben entered as a graduate engineer has
been buffeted by  Europe ’s economic crisis as countries reduce
renewable-energy incentives. Competition from Chinese companies
such as  Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co. (2208)  and Sinovel
Wind Group Co. eager to enter Europe also pushed prices lower.  “Securing the future of my company and its employees is
something that is very near and dear to me,” Wobben said in the
statement. Enercon, with factories in Sweden, Brazil and  Canada ,
didn’t immediately reply to e-mails and calls seeking comment.  The company says it was the first to develop direct-drive
machines without gearboxes, reducing maintenance. It built the
most new machines in  Germany  last year, making about 59.5
percent of the total, the  German Wind Energy Institute  says.  Speculation emerged last month that Sinovel and Goldwind
were studying a bid for Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the world’s
biggest turbine maker, which fell to its lowest in nine years
today in Copenhagen after a first-quarter loss almost doubled.  A trust separates a company from its owner, making it
harder for heirs to sell, law firm Taylor Wessing LLP said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  