-- Eritrea Ranked as Most-Censored Country by Journalism Group
-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n   a n d   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-05-02T08:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/eritrea-ranked-as-most-censored-country-by-journalism-group-1-.html
Eritrea is the world’s most-censored
nation, ahead of countries including  North Korea  and Syria, the
Committee to  Protect Journalists  said.  The three countries are joined in the top 10 by Iran and
Equatorial Guinea, the New York-based organization said in a
 report  on its website today. Reporters in Eritrea, a nation in
the Horn of Africa which won independence from Ethiopia in 1993,
are conscripted into their work and handed instructions on how
to cover events, the group said. The last accredited foreign
correspondent was expelled in 2007, it said.  “No foreign reporters are granted access to Eritrea and
all domestic media are controlled by the government,” the
committee said. “Ministry of Information officials direct every
detail of coverage.”  Eritrea has been ruled by President Isaias Afwerki, a
former rebel leader, since it seceded following a guerrilla war
that toppled  Ethiopia ’s communist Derg military regime in 1991.
Seven years later, the two countries fought a two-year border
war in which 70,000 people were killed.  Since his election by the National Assembly 19 years ago,
Afwerki has “managed to hold off elections and the
implementation of a constitution, largely by imprisoning critics
and obliterating the private press,” the committee said.  Eritrea’s government rejected the concept of an independent
media.  ‘Propaganda Mouthpieces’  “There is no independent press all over the world,”
Eritrea’s ambassador to the  African Union , Girma Asmerom, said
in a phone interview from  Addis Ababa , the Ethiopian capital.
“It’s either owned by a company or an individual.”  Eritrea banned private media in 2001 because they had
become “propaganda mouthpieces for external foreign
influences,” he said. The country’s media is now focused on the
“development agenda and poverty alleviation,” Girma said.  Other African countries where the media is heavily censored
include Ethiopia and Sudan, the committee said. The other top 10
entrants were Uzbekistan, Myanmar,  Saudi Arabia , Cuba and
Belarus.  While China was not included in the list, it “plays a
particularly harmful role worldwide” because it exports
censorship techniques, the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 