-- Merkel Is Cast as Thatcher’s Austerity Goddess
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-05-02T23:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/merkel-is-cast-as-thatcher-s-austerity-goddess.html
Three decades ago, U.K. Prime Minister
 Margaret Thatcher  was confronted with a nation bordering on
irrelevance, a stagnant economy and a set of entrenched beliefs
about the relationship between government and the people.  Thatcher faced down striking coal miners and forced through
a series of free-market reforms that unshackled Britain’s
economy and made it vibrant once again. To the chorus of
accusations that she was killing the economy, she replied:
“There is no alternative.”  She was right. Short-term pain -- in that case, a recession
and a sharp spike in  unemployment  -- for long-term gain is
generally a winning strategy.  We could use a dose of Lady Thatcher today. Instead, German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  has been cast in the Iron Lady role,
charged with fending off policy prescriptions that run counter
to her preferred fiscal discipline for the euro zone. In the
last week alone, Harvard’s  Lawrence Summers , Princeton’s  Paul
Krugman , Columbia’s  Joseph Stiglitz  and Berkeley’s  Christina
Romer  wrote  op-eds  claiming that austerity isn’t working.
Instead, the focus should be on growth.  That’s a false dichotomy. Who wouldn’t choose growth over
austerity?  Europe’s real choice isn’t unlike the one faced by the
U.S., according to  Jim Glassman , senior U.S. economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The choice is cyclical versus structural.  Bigger Fish  “It’s all about recession,” Glassman says. “The thinking
is, when the economy comes back, everything will be fine.
There’s a resistance to looking at fundamental structural
problems,” which in Europe include an aging population, overly
generous pensions, a rigid labor market and a large,
unsustainable social safety net. “The more you push back on
austerity, the less focus there is on structural problems,” he
says.  And that’s only part of the problem. Economists can’t agree
whether  government spending  creates growth, creates the illusion
of growth (government spending is a component of gross domestic
product) or hampers growth because the private sector,
anticipating a higher tax bill in the future, reacts adversely.  China ’s fiscal stimulus following the 2008 financial crisis
was touted as successful, though who can really tell with China?
Japan, on the other hand, has little to show for decades of
public spending except oodles of debt: a debt-to-GDP ratio in
excess of 230 percent, the highest among industrialized nations.
Japan is fortunate that its biggest creditor is the Japanese
public.  “It’s not at all clear that government spending is
expansionary,” says Robert Barro, a professor of economics at
 Harvard University . “Moving toward fiscal discipline will have
a positive short-run effect.”  Krugman pooh-poohs the idea that the private sector will
step up to the plate if government puts its house in order. He
derisively compares this notion to a belief in the “ confidence
fairy .”  What should we call his premise that government spending is
the route to salvation? A confidence game? Why would taking
money from one individual via borrowing or taxation and giving
it to another have anything more than a transitory effect on the
economy? Even the government calls such finagling “transfer
payments.”  Answer: Because economists believe that a dollar of
government spending creates more than a dollar of GDP growth. It
does because they say it does.  Another Broken Window  There are other econometric models, such as Barro’s, that
find a multiplier of less than one. French political economist
Frederic Bastiat explained how that could be 162 years ago in
his parable about the  broken window . We can see the dollar spent
by the government; what’s unseen is how the money would have
been spent had the government not commandeered those resources.  And if this isn’t enough to make you question the anti-
austerity advice, consider that countries such as Spain, whose
credit rating was just downgraded two levels to BBB+ by  Standard
& Poor’s , might not be able to borrow the amounts necessary to
crank up growth (assuming you’re in Krugman’s camp). Last month,
the yield on Spain’s  10-year bonds  surpassed 6 percent for the
first time this year.  Even if Spain could borrow enough at increasingly higher
 interest rates , what happens if growth fails to materialize?
Another year older and deeper in debt.  If the euro zone is determined to spend money, its first
target should be the banking system.  Europe ’s banks are
undercapitalized and need to raise their capital-adequacy ratios
to 9 percent by the end of June, according to  Carl Weinberg ,
chief economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New
York.  “Save the banks, save the economy: Funding TARP was less
bad than letting the U.S. banking system fail,” Weinberg says,
referring to the U.S.’s Troubled Asset Relief Program.  These are the same European banks that, courtesy of cheap
three-year loans from the  European Central Bank , have been the
biggest buyers of sovereign debt, preventing yields from rising
even further.  Europeans, excluding Germans, have started to bridle at
austerity, which is a surprise since most  austerity measures  are
only on paper. Last month, Socialist Francois Hollande edged out
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in the first round of France’s general
election. One day later, the Dutch government, aligned with
 Germany  on the issue of austerity, collapsed over budgetary
cuts.  With euro-zone  unemployment  tying a record high of 10.9
percent in March, the voices urging budget discipline will
probably be drowned out by those who want to spend more now and
ignore the long-term, growth-retardant effect of accumulated
government debt.  Will Merkel capitulate? My bet is she stays in character
and responds with something that would make  Lady Thatcher proud :
“This Frau’s not for turning.”  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View :  Today’s highlights: the View editors on what’s missing from the
 U.S.-Afghanistan pact  and better ways to  fix the farm bill ;  Ezra
Klein  on how  the U.S. isn’t like Greece ; Amity Shlaes on why  we
should all back the gold standard ; Ray Ball on  pitfalls of mark-
to-market accounting ; Josh Barro on  new arguments for a U.S.
value-added tax .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  