-- Testosterone Chases Viagra in Libido Race as Doctors Fret
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-05-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/testosterone-chases-viagra-in-libido-race-as-doctors-fret.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  and  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT)  are offering help to the 13.8 million American 
men who have low levels of testosterone. Doctors warn that 
demand for the treatments could lead to overuse with deadly 
side effects.  In what may become one of the most sought-after sex
enhancement treatments since the introduction of Viagra 14 
years ago, new testosterone drugs from Abbott, Lilly and 
other drugmakers are in hot demand. Prescriptions for 
testosterone replacement therapies have more than doubled 
since 2006 to 5.6 million, according to data compiled by 
Bloomberg. Sales are expected to triple to $5 billion by 
2017, according to  Global Industry Analysts Inc.   In clinics and treatment centers sprouting up around 
the country, men are lining up to get shots, gels and patches 
to boost their testosterone.  Michael Murray , 43, a home 
stager in New York and  Chicago , is one of them.  “Am I making a deal with the devil? A little bit, but I
have to think about my quality of life,” Murray said. “It is
like I’m in my 20s again.”  Murray said he doesn’t have any obvious symptoms of low
testosterone levels. He simply wants to raise his energy level
and give his bodybuilding regime a boost. That sort of
endorsement may offer promise to the pharmaceutical industry.
Still, a growing number of doctors warn that relying on the 
drug as a fountain of youth risks serious health consequences.  Loss of Libido  Like the millions of women who have opted for hormone
replacement therapy, men are choosing to get their hormone
levels in line. As many as 13.8 million men older than 45 in 
the U.S. have low levels of testosterone, according to a 2006 
study in the  International Journal of Clinical Practice . The 
male sex hormone begins to decline after age 30, and tends 
to drop about 1 percent each year, though the level of decline 
varies. Lower-than-normal levels can lead to a loss of libido, 
a decrease in bone and muscle mass, and depression, according 
to the  Cleveland Clinic .  Problems may occur when the drug is taken by those who
don’t need it, according to health experts. Testosterone can
increase the growth of prostate tumors and cause blood clots,
infertility and liver damage, said  Edmund Sabanegh , chairman 
of urology at the Cleveland Clinic. He said he is careful to
prescribe the drugs only to patients with a medical need and 
has seen a rise in patients coming to him seeking a 
prescription for testosterone who don’t need it.  ‘Highly Addictive Drug’  “There are a lot of really bad things that can happen”
from misuse of testosterone, Sabanegh said. “I think it is a
highly addictive drug and I think we need to be very careful
about treating patients appropriately.”  Abbott and Lilly said they don’t condone the use of
testosterone treatments by men who don’t have clinically low
levels of the hormone. Lilly said its testosterone therapy,
Axiron, was approved by U.S. regulators in 2010 based on a 
study of 155 men who were followed for as long as six months.  Abbott only promotes use of its Androgel for Food and 
Drug Administration-approved uses in men diagnosed with low 
levels of testosterone by a doctor, said Greg Miley, a 
company spokesman. Abbott said its marketing is intended to 
raise awareness about low testosterone.  Both companies said that when used properly, their 
products Provide tremendous help to men with manageable side 
effects. They said men taking the treatments should be 
monitored for prostate cancer.  Disease Awareness  “Low testosterone is a chronic, but treatable disease and
our marketing efforts around disease awareness are designed to
raise awareness about this,” Miley said.  Abbott spent $20.8 million on testosterone advertising in
2011, according to  Nielsen Holdings NV. (NLSN)  One television ad opens
with a silhouette of a man sitting on the bench as his friends
play basketball. The voice-over asks viewers if they have “lost
their appetite for romance?” or are “feeling like a shadow of
your former self?”  The ads direct viewers to a website called  IsItLowT.com.  On
the website is an image of a troubled-looking man sitting on the
edge of a bed, his back toward a woman. Another image shows an
overweight man on a scale and there is also a quiz to help
determine low testosterone levels.  Lilly began running television, online and print ads last
year for Axiron, which is applied under the arm through a device
similar to a deodorant stick. The ads tout the product as “the
only underarm testosterone treatment.” The company doesn’t
disclose how much it has spent on marketing.  The ads are intended to “help educate men about low
testosterone and encourage them to seek treatment,” said Teresa Shewman, a Lilly spokeswoman.  Testosterone Clinics  While growing, sales of the drugs aren’t on par yet with
those of erectile dysfunction treatments. The U.S. market for
testosterone replacement therapies was $1.6 billion last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
Viagra were $1.98 billion and Lilly’s Cialis were $1.88 billion
in 2011.  To meet the growing demand for testosterone treatments,
clinics are opening across the country. Johnny Mitias, an
orthopedic surgeon in  Mississippi , decided to open a chain of
clinics, called  Ageless Men’s Health , after he saw the benefits
first-hand by treating his own low testosterone. He now has 15
offices and plans to double the number next year. Mitias said he
has 5,000 patients, who each pay $250 a month for testosterone
injections.  Strict Guidelines  Blood tests to measure for low testosterone, though, can be
unreliable as testosterone levels tend to fluctuate throughout
the day, said Peter Snyder, a  University of Pennsylvania 
endocrinologist. He requires men take multiple blood tests in
the morning to ensure their levels are below the normal range of
300 to 1,200 nanograms per deciliter.  “It’s likely the dramatic increase in use of testosterone
is mostly for people whose blood test is a little bit low, but
for no obvious reason other than age,” Snyder said. “It really
isn’t clear that those people are going to benefit.”  Snyder, who is studying the effects of  testosterone  in
older men, said the increased popularity signals an overuse of
the drugs. He said he won’t prescribe testosterone unless a
patient has significantly low testosterone and symptoms, like
depression, low sex drive or fatigue.  Other experts worry that some doctors are misprescribing
testosterone as a cure-all for a variety of problems. The
Cleveland Clinic’s Sabanegh said he sees men taking testosterone
to help with erectile dysfunction or  low libido  when they are
trying to conceive a child. Yet testosterone treatments can make
men infertile, a side effect doctors sometimes fail to consider,
he said.  Younger Than 60  Mitias said his clinic has strict guidelines on treatment
eligibility. Most patients at Ageless Men’s Health are younger
than 60 and have testosterone levels below the normal rage
recommended by the Endocrine Society, a professional
organization for endocrinologists, he said. The clinic also
routinely checks for prostate cancer.  Mitias never thought he’d be a guy with low testosterone.
He worked out regularly, had a busy surgical practice and was
keeping up with his three kids. That started to change around
age 40. He said he began feeling very tired, was having trouble
sleeping and cut back on the gym and playing with his kids.  He went to the doctor and got his testosterone checked.
Even though his levels were within the normal range, Mitias says
he decided to try taking testosterone because he had many
symptoms. He saw an immediate improvement.  “I got an injection on Friday and by Monday it changed my
life,” Mitias said. “I told my friend and business partner how
great I felt. He got tested and found out he was low, got an
injection and it changed his life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  