-- EU Ministers Fail to Reach Deal on Bank Capital Rules
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-05-03T09:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/eu-considers-5-bank-capital-surcharges-on-domestic-activity.html
European Union finance ministers
failed to reach an agreement to toughen bank capital rules in
the face of British resistance and now aim for a deal at their
next meeting on May 15.  Sixteen hours of talks in Brussels that ended early today
snagged on when countries can tighten domestic banking
regulations and add to EU minimum requirements on how much
capital banks must hold. A compromise proposal from  Denmark ,
which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, would allow
governments to force their banks to add risk buffers of as much
as 5 percent against their domestic and non-EU exposures.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  was one of
the loudest voices calling for member states to gain the
additional flexibility. He said the U.K. will also press for
discretion on so-called macro-prudential oversight tools, such
as when regulators can rein in housing markets.  Ministers will try to bridge differences during the next
two weeks, defying a warning yesterday by German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  that failure to reach decision at
this meeting “will be dangerous.” If no consensus is achieved,
a decision could be taken through a majority vote.  Agreement among finance ministers will serve as a basis for
negotiations with the European Parliament, which could begin
later this month. The EU faces a Jan. 1, 2013, deadline for
adopting rules agreed on by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision .  Higher Thresholds  Nations have been divided over proposals by  Michel Barnier ,
the EU’s financial services chief, to fix banks’ core capital
requirements at 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets, with
limited exceptions for national regulators to set higher
thresholds.  “We have made real progress,” Barnier said in an e-mailed
statement today. Barnier said he is “convinced” that the May 15
meeting will achieve agreement on a mandate to start
negotiations with parliament.  The latest proposal on EU implementation of Basel rules
says that member states can impose a capital surcharge of as
much as 3 percent on banks’ exposures in other members of the
27-nation bloc. If an EU country is “specifically targeted” by
another country’s additional requirements, it could go to the
European Banking Authority for binding mediation.  Recent Revisions  The most recent revisions clarify when binding mediation is
applicable. They also offer a procedure for countries to justify
their decision when they want to impose an additional buffer on
banks in the 3 percent to 5 percent range, and it adjusts the
procedure required for countries that want extra buffers of more
than 5 percent and must seek EU approval.  Technical work on these and other elements of the proposal
will continue, Danish Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  told
reporters after the meeting. Denmark has been leading efforts to
strike a deal based on Barnier’s proposal, put forward in 2011.  “What we want at the end of this process is to implement
the Basel agreement,” Osborne said yesterday during the
meeting’s public debate. “I’m not prepared to go out there and
say something that is going to make me look an idiot five
minutes later.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  