-- European Property Sales Slide as Funding Shortage Deters Buyers
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-05-02T10:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/european-property-sales-slide-as-funding-shortage-deters-buyers.html
European real estate sales fell to the
lowest in 18 months in the first quarter as reduced debt funding
and concerns about slowing growth deterred investors, according
to Real Capital Analytics Inc.  Sales of commercial real estate, hotels, development sites
and apartment blocks fell 28 percent from a year earlier to 28.4
billion euros ($37.4 billion), according to data released today
by the  New York-based researcher . It was the lowest level of
property transactions since the third quarter of 2010, RCA said.  European banks may scale back real-estate lending by as
much as 700 billion euros in the next three to five years as
they shrink balance sheets to meet proposed capital regulations,
Morgan Stanley estimates. Spending cuts by national governments
are hurting growth and lifting unemployment across the
continent. The U.K., Europe’s largest property market by
transaction value, entered its first double-dip recession since
the 1970s in the first quarter.  “Continued sensitivity to risk among active investors and
a severely constrained debt market have hampered investment
activity across almost every market,” Joseph Kelly, RCA’s
director of market analysis in  Europe , said in an interview.  Transactions in the U.K. and  Germany , the continent’s
largest investment markets, fell 23 percent and 33 percent,
respectively, the RCA figures show.  France  had a 9 percent
increase.  The only sectors to show an increase in transactions were
land sales and multi-family housing, such as the 1.4 billion-
euro purchase of 21,000 apartments by a group including Patrizia
AG. Sales of offices, hotels, stores and industrial properties
all registered declines, RCA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen in London at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  