-- Euro Gains Versus Yen as ECB Refrains From Signaling Cut
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-03T18:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/euro-remains-lower-on-prospects-draghi-to-signal-stimulus.html
The euro strengthened versus the yen
after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy
makers didn’t discuss cutting  interest rates  at their meeting
this week.  The 17-nation currency fluctuated against the dollar after
Draghi said at a press conference in Barcelona there has been
“significant progress” on the fiscal front. Higher-yielding
currencies, including  Mexico ’s peso, declined versus the
greenback as stocks and commodities fell amid lower appetite for
risk. The dollar pared gains versus the yen after a gauge of
U.S. service industries fell more than forecast.  “The ECB was somewhat less dovish than some had
expected,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in  Washington 
at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage.
“We saw the euro push up on that. Some market participants were
looking for a hint of additional liquidity intervention, and we
didn’t get that.”  The euro gained 0.1 percent to 105.59 yen at 1:58 p.m. in
New York after dropping to 105.13 yesterday, the weakest level
since April 16. It rose earlier today as much as 0.6 percent.
The single currency was little changed at $1.3146 after falling
earlier as much as 0.5 percent. The yen fell 0.2 percent to
80.32 per dollar, paring an earlier drop of 0.5 percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  retreated 0.8 percent, and
the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials dropped
0.8 percent.  Mexico’s peso weakened 0.6 percent to 13.0089 to the
greenback, and  Australia ’s dollar lost 0.8 percent to $1.0249.  ‘Downside Risks’  The ECB kept its main  refinancing rate  at a record low 1
percent, as predicted by all 58 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. While the ECB still expects a gradual economic recovery
this year, “downside risks” prevail and the outlook has become
“more uncertain,” Draghi said.  “The market was looking for something on potential
interest-rate cuts,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-
fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “We got
nothing, so the euro is rallying as a result.”  The euro fell earlier today as Spanish borrowing costs
increased at a note sale.  Spain  auctioned 765 million euros of
notes due in January 2017 at an average yield of 4.75 percent,
versus 3.57 percent at a previous sale of five-year securities
on Feb. 2. It auctioned three-year debt at an average rate of
4.037 percent, compared with 2.617 percent on March 1.  Biggest Loser  Europe ’s shared currency weakened 6.7 percent over the past
12 months, the worst performer among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar climbed 6.2 percent, and the yen gained 5.4 percent.  The dollar pared an advance against the yen after the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s index of  non-manufacturing
industries , which account for almost 90 percent of the  U.S.
economy , decreased to 53.5 in April from 56 a month earlier. The
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s measure was projected to decline to
55.3, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Readings above 50
signal expansion.  The greenback gained earlier as data showed initial claims
for  unemployment benefits  in the U.S. declined by 27,000 to a
one-month low of 365,000 in the week ended April 28.  A Labor Department report tomorrow will show U.S. nonfarm
payrolls added 160,000 jobs last month, after hiring 120,000 in
March, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Could React’  “Markets are going into the U.S. payrolls after a series
of back and forth, and they could react if we see a strong
surprise,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at
 Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “The euro is coming off now, and
stocks are probably to blame because the risk currencies are
somewhat weaker.”  The dollar has traded in a range of $1.30 to $1.35 per euro
since the start of February.  The yen declined on speculation the nation’s exporters are
waiting for the currency to fall further before buying it.
Japanese markets are shut today and tomorrow for holidays.  “Our internal flows have shown that exporters’ bid for yen
has been absent for some time,” said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-
exchange strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in
 London . “This may suggest perhaps that they still anticipate
that the yen could weaken further and are looking for better
levels to buy.”  Kiwi Tumbles  New Zealand’s currency, known as the kiwi, dropped against
all of its 16 most-traded counterparts after unemployment
exceeded the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The  jobless rate  climbed to 6.7 percent in the first
quarter from a revised 6.4 percent in the previous three months,
 Statistics New Zealand  said.  New Zealand’s dollar slid 1.4 percent to 79.95 U.S. cents
and reached 79.88 cents, the weakest level since Jan. 17.  A so-called down channel is leading the yen to strengthen
versus the dollar, reclaiming some of its losses this year that
are the worst among the 16 most-traded currencies, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The yen is poised to appreciate toward 79.55 per dollar, a
key support level for the U.S. currency, Niall O’Connor, a New
York-based technical analyst with JPMorgan wrote in a note to
clients. “Deeper support levels” for the dollar against the
yen appear on charts at 79.15 and 78.35, he wrote.  “There hasn’t been a sense of a real turn in the economic
picture,” O’Connor said in a telephone interview. “If the
economic atmosphere in the U.S. gets worse, it’s a negative for
the dollar, and thus the yen will probably outperform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  