-- European Stocks Drop as U.S. Payrolls Miss Estimates
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-05-02T15:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/european-stock-futures-rise-on-manufacturing-report.html
European (SXXP)  stocks declined for the
second time in three days after reports showed that U.S.
employers added fewer payrolls than forecast and euro-area
unemployment rose to a 15-year high.  Vestas (VWS)  Wind Systems A/S slumped to an almost nine-year low
after saying it’ll spend more money on turbine maintenance.
Banco Santander SA led banks lower as European sovereign-bond
yield spreads over German bunds widened.  UBS AG (UBSN) , the biggest
bank in  Switzerland , jumped 3.7 percent after first-quarter
results beat analysts’ estimates.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index lost 0.4 percent to 257.39 at
the close of trading, after earlier climbing as much as 1
percent. The benchmark gauge rose 0.4 yesterday after a report
showed U.S. manufacturing expanded in April. All western
European markets except the U.K., Ireland and Denmark were
closed yesterday for May Day Holiday.  “The employment growth continues, though at a moderate
pace,” Ralf Umlauf, head of floor research at Helaba Landesbank
Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt , wrote in e-mailed comments.
“With regard to the Friday publication of the official jobs
report, the indications are mixed. It seems there is a slight
potential for disappointment.”  U.S. companies added the fewest number of workers in seven
months in April, a private report showed. Employment increased
by 119,000 following a revised 201,000 gain the prior month,
according to figures from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Employer Services. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 170,000 advance.  Euro-Area Jobs  Euro-region  unemployment  rose to a 15-year high and
manufacturing contracted for a ninth month, separate reports
showed today. The jobless rate in the 17-nation euro area
increased to 10.9 percent in March from 10.8 percent in
February, the European Union statistics office in Luxembourg
said. That’s the highest since April 1997, according to
Bloomberg News data.  In  China , a survey released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics indicated that output at small and medium-sized
enterprises contracted. That contrasts with a report yesterday
that showed  Chinese manufacturing  expanded last month at the
fastest pace in a year.  National benchmark indexes fell in 15 of the 18 western
European markets today.  France ’s CAC 40 rose 0.4 percent, the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 slid 0.9 percent and  Germany’s DAX (DAX)  retreated 0.8
percent.  Spain ’s IBEX 35 Index dropped 2.6 percent to 6,831.90,
its lowest level since March 2009.  Bond Spreads Widen  A gauge of banks performed the worst of the  19 industry
groups  on the Stoxx Europe 600 after spreads between German 10-
year government bonds and Italian and Spanish securities
expanded.  European Union finance ministers are meeting in Brussels
today amid disagreements on how governments can force banks to
set aside more capital than the minimum required by
international accords.  Nations are divided over proposals by  Michel Barnier , the
EU’s financial-services chief, to fix banks’ core capital
requirements at 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets, with
limited exceptions for national regulators to set higher
thresholds.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the biggest lenders
in Spain and Italy, declined 3.3 percent to 4.56 euros and 5.7
percent to 2.84 euros, respectively.  UBS Wealth Management  UBS rose 3.7 percent to 11.75 Swiss francs after the lender
attracted more funds from wealthy clients in the first quarter
than analysts estimated. UBS said its wealth management units
attracted 10.9 billion Swiss francs ($12 billion) in net new
funds, more than the 8.8 billion-franc estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  STMicroelectronics, Europe’s biggest semiconductor maker,
gained 1.3 percent to 4.34 euros after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
advised clients to buy the shares and Citigroup Inc. said
investors should hold them rather than sell.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  climbed 1.5 percent to
701.5 pence. The U.K.’s biggest pay-TV operator said operating
profit in the nine months ended March rose 20 percent.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and
amortization increased to 1.19 billion pounds ($1.9 billion).
Sales jumped 5 percent to 5.08 billion pounds.  Standard Chartered Growth  Standard Chartered , the U.K.’s second-largest bank by
market value, declined 3.9 percent to 1,453 pence. The lender
said it had “high single-digit” revenue growth in the first
quarter, driven by consumer and wholesale-banking operations.  Operating profit expanded by a “low double-digit” rate
from a year earlier, the London-based lender said today in a
statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange, without providing
specific figures.  Vestas, the biggest wind turbine maker, declined 5.6
percent to 48.15 kroner, the lowest closing price since May 28,
2003. The company said its loss widened 91 percent in the
quarter as it expects to spend more money on turbine maintenance
after uncovering potential faults in 376 machines.  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME) , the U.K. owner of the Argos and
Homebase chains, plunged 13 percent to 87.55 pence after
reporting annual profit falling 60 percent as it sold fewer
consumer electronics and big-ticket items like kitchens and said
it won’t pay a final dividend.  So-called benchmark pretax profit fell to 102 million
pounds ($165 million) in the 52 weeks ended Feb. 25, the  Milton
Keynes , England-based retailer said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  