-- Europe Debacle Is Full of Lessons, but Which Are True?
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-05-02T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/europe-debacle-is-full-of-lessons-but-which-are-true-.html
Europe  is a mess. But it’s a peculiar
mess that both the left and the right think validates everything
they’ve been saying about what we should -- and shouldn’t -- do
here in the U.S.  “The right argues we have to cut deficits now or we’ll be
like Greece,” says  Tom Gallagher , a principal at the Scowcroft
Group. “The left argues we can’t cut deficits now or we’ll be
like Europe.”  So, who’s right? Well, which entity do you think is more
comparable to the U.S.? Greece? Europe? Neither?  I come down somewhere between “Europe” and “neither,”
but it’s worth going through each contestant in turn.  Greece is a country of 11 million. Geographically, it’s
about the size of  Louisiana . It doesn’t control its own
currency, and its government spent years lying about its fiscal
condition. After it joined the euro area in 2001, Greece went
from paying about 7 percent interest on a 10-year bond to a bit
more than 3 percent because investors assumed that its debt was
backed by Germany and the  European Central Bank . This encouraged
profligacy (which led to the dishonesty) in  Athens .  The assumption also turned out to be wrong. When investors
figured that out, they turned on Greece. Hard. With easy money
no longer masking its problems, Greece’s economy was exposed for
 the mess it is . The  World Economic Forum  ranks it as the 90th
most competitive country in the world, between Lebanon and  El
Salvador .  Safest of Safe  The U.S., by contrast, is a country of 313 million. It
controls its own currency, which is also the global  reserve
currency . The U.S. Treasury bond is the safest of safe assets.
Even after a lengthy financial crisis, the  World Economic Forum 
ranks the U.S. as the fifth most competitive economy in the
world, and it’s bigger than the first four combined. Whatever
the U.S. is, it’s not Greece.  So perhaps it’s Europe? Or at least the euro area? After
all, the euro area is also big and controls its own currency.
Likewise, the euro area was once considered a safe bet.  But the euro area is also a fledgling institution facing an
existential crisis. No one knows whether it will be around in
its current form in 10 more years -- or even 10 more months. Its
central bank seems more committed to forcing member countries to
cut their deficits and reform their labor markets than to
preserving the currency union itself.  The crisis has also exposed deep flaws in the basic
structure of the alliance. The member countries increasingly
despise and mistrust one another. Critical players in the drama
-- France and Greece -- are on the verge of  electing new
governments  that promise to radically renegotiate the terms of
euro-area compacts. Meanwhile,  Germany  and the ECB seem
determined to impose a moralistic, debt-focused narrative on a
crisis that’s better understood as a problem of capital flows
and growth.  The U.S. has its problems. Although we can borrow for next
to nothing and  unemployment  remains above 8 percent, U.S.
leaders often seem more focused on debts than growth. The
political system is increasingly gridlocked and dysfunctional.
One of our two major parties is engulfed in a civil war driven
by an insurgency that wants to radically redefine government
functions, preferring, for instance, to default on the national
debt rather than increase tax revenue or borrow more. It’s a
pretty safe bet, though, that the country itself will still be
around, in much the same form, in a decade. Where the euro
area’s lack of policy consensus threatens to tear the currency
union apart -- a threat markets take seriously -- the U.S. poses
no similar risk of suicide (which the markets know, too).  Established Entities  A better analogy is found in the U.K. Like the U.S., the
U.K. has been around awhile and it isn’t going anywhere soon.
Like the U.S., the U.K. has established institutions -- the  Bank
of England  was founded in 1694 -- that have been tested before.
But unlike the U.S., the U.K. responded to the financial crisis
with a quick turn toward austerity, imposed through tax
increases and spending cuts, rather than Keynesian stimulus. As
a result, the U.K. is falling into a  double-dip recession , even
underperforming its  rate of recovery  during the Great
Depression. What’s more, with the economy sinking, austerity
measures aren’t producing the desired fiscal balance. Economic
health depends on the nation’s debt-to-GDP ratio: When GDP
falls, as is happening in the U.K., debt must fall even further
and faster to make up the difference.  The smaller, more open U.K. economy is also more buffeted
by events in the euro area than the U.S. is. But as Gallagher,
of the Scowcroft Group, says: “You never get perfect
comparisons. You’re always approximating. The 1930s in the U.S.
and the 1990s in  Japan  aren’t perfect examples either, but we
use them to draw lessons.”  What lessons should we draw? Don’t be like  Greece  -- that’s
the easy one. The more important lesson of the euro area is that
a successful currency union should also be a fiscal and
political union. The U.S. has little to learn on that score. As
for the U.K., well, it’s more about relearning a lesson that
some in our country seem to have forgotten: Austerity does not
create growth, and it’s not something you want to try
prematurely.  In a recent paper, economists Ugo Panizza and Andrea
Presbitero analyzed the evidence that  high levels of debt  hinder
a nation’s economic performance. They failed to find proof of a
causal link. What did seem clear, they wrote, is that high debt
can reduce growth “because high debt leads to panic and
contractionary policies.” That’s essentially what’s happened in
the U.K. We would be wise not to let it happen here.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on what’s missing from the
 U.S.-Afghanistan pact  and better ways to  fix the farm bill ;
 Amity Shlaes  on why  we should all back the gold standard ;
 Caroline Baum  on the lack of  alternatives to austerity ; Ray Ball
on  pitfalls of mark-to-market accounting ; Josh Barro on  new
arguments for a U.S. value-added tax .  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 