-- Euro-Area Unemployment at 15-Year High as Slump Deepens: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-05-02T10:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/euro-region-manufacturing-contracted-for-ninth-month-in-april.html
Euro-region  unemployment  rose to a 15-
year high and manufacturing contracted for a ninth month, adding
to signs the economic slump is deepening.  The jobless rate in the 17-nation euro area increased to
10.9 percent in March from 10.8 percent in February, the
European Union statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
That’s the highest since April 1997, according to Bloomberg News
data. Separate reports showed euro-area manufacturing contracted
more than initially estimated in April and  unemployment  in
Germany, the region’s largest economy, unexpectedly increased.  Rising joblessness will keep pressure on politicians to
find ways of boosting growth as austerity measures designed to
stem the debt crisis push economies into recession and provoke a
backlash among citizens. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  last week called on leaders to create a “growth
compact” to complement an agreement on fiscal rules. The ECB
will probably keep its  benchmark interest rate  at a record low
of 1 percent tomorrow.  “The grim unemployment figures for March will likely
encourage talk about a long overdue ‘growth pact’ for the  euro
zone ,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Group in
Amsterdam. “Survey measures of hiring intentions point to
further increases in unemployment over the coming months, so we
would expect unemployment to breach the 11 percent threshold.”  Euro Drops  The euro declined against the dollar today and was down 0.8
percent at $1.3137 as of 10:30 a.m. in London. The benchmark
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index pared gains to 0.1 percent.  The euro-area jobless rate matched the median forecast of
31 economists in a Bloomberg survey. In the 27-nation European
Union, the unemployment rate was 10.2 percent in March,
unchanged from the previous month and up from 9.4 percent a year
earlier. Italy said today its jobless rate jumped to a 12-year
high of 9.8 percent in March.  In Germany, the number of people  out of work  in increased a
seasonally adjusted 19,000 in April to 2.87 million, the
Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency said. Economists forecast a
decline of 10,000, according to the median of 34 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. The adjusted jobless rate was unchanged at 6.8
percent, a two-decade low.  Declining unemployment has helped gird  Germany  against the
debt crisis by bolstering household spending as export growth
slows. Frank-Juergen Weise, the labor agency’s president, said
the “positive trend on the labor market remains intact, but the
economy has lost momentum.”  Manufacturing Slump  A  manufacturing gauge  in the euro region fell to 45.9 in
April, a 34-month low, from 47.7 in March, Markit Economics said
today. Readings below 50 indicate contraction. The report also
indicated that job losses at factories increased and there was
“weak” demand from both domestic and export customers.  The index contrasts with a similar gauge in the U.S.
released yesterday showing manufacturing growth accelerated last
month in the world’s largest economy.  A Chinese manufacturing index from HSBC Holdings Plc and
 Markit Economics  today rose to 49.3 from 48.3 in March. That’s
above a preliminary 49.1 reported April 23. A separate index
released yesterday by China’s statistics bureau and logistics
federation was at 53.3, indicating the fastest growth in a year.  In Europe, the debt crisis is curbing demand for goods.
Manufacturers are also facing pressure from rising costs as oil
prices increase. Stuttgart, Germany-based  Robert Bosch GmbH , the
world’s biggest car-parts supplier, said on April 26 that it
will be harder to meet profit targets as high raw-material costs
and spending on new business areas hurt margins.  “Economic uncertainties remain high,” Bosch Chief
Executive Officer  Franz Fehrenbach  said.  Spanish Unemployment  The unemployment data showed that the number of people out
of work in the euro area rose by 169,000 in March to 17.4
million. From a year earlier, unemployment increased by 1.73
million.  Spain  had the region’s highest  unemployment rate  in March,
at 24.1 percent. Data on April 30 showed that the Spanish
economy contracted 0.3 percent in the first quarter, putting it
into its second recession since 2009. The lowest jobless rates
were in  Austria  and the Netherlands, at 4 percent and 5 percent
respectively.  The labor-market and factory reports “underline the
enormity of the challenge facing policy makers to respond,”
said  Jonathan Loynes , chief European economist at  Capital
Economics  in London. “‘There may be a growing ‘consensus’ on
the need for growth in the euro zone. But with unemployment
rising and industry slumping, a prolonged recession looks much
more likely.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  