-- Junior Seau's Shooting Death Is Treated as a Suicide by Police
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/ex-chargers-linebacker-junior-seau-dead-at-43-team-says.html
Police said they’re treating the
shooting death of Junior Seau, a former National Football League
linebacker voted an All-Pro six times in a 20-year career, as a
suicide.  Seau, who was 43, died yesterday at his home in Oceanside,
California, of a gunshot wound to the chest. He’s the eighth
member of the  San Diego  Chargers’ 1994 Super Bowl team to die.  Chargers President Dean Spanos said in a statement that
he’s “shocked and devastated” by the death of Seau, who spent
13 seasons with the team.  “I can tell you no one had more character and true
leadership ability than Junior,” Chargers coach Norv Turner
said in a statement released by the team. “He brought passion
to the game of football that was unmatched.”  Traumatic  brain damage  has been found in the autopsies of
at least two former NFL players who killed themselves -- Andre Waters, a former Philadelphia Eagles defensive back who died in
November 2006 at the age of 44, and former Chicago Bears safety
Dave Duerson, who took his own life in February 2012 at age 50.  Former NFL players including Super Bowl-winning quarterback
Jim McMahon have sued the NFL in more than a dozen complaints
that the league ignored the consequences of head injuries.
Former Atlanta Falcons safety Ray Easterling, who was one of the
players suing the league, shot and killed himself two weeks ago
at his home in Richmond, Virginia.  “Depression and suicide are serious matters and we, as
current and former NFL players, should demand better
treatment,” Hall of Fame running back Emmitt Smith said via
Twitter today in response to the news of Seau’s death.  Handgun Found  Oceanside Chief of Police Frank McCoy said at a news
conference outside Seau’s beachfront house that a woman who
identified herself as the former player’s girlfriend returned to
the home and found him unconscious in one of the bedrooms with a
gunshot wound to the chest. A handgun was found near Seau’s body
and life-saving efforts were unsuccessful, McCoy said.  Seau was selected by the Chargers with the fifth pick in
the 1990  NFL draft  out of the University of  Southern California .
He was named to the Pro Football Hall of Fame’s All-Decade Team
of the 1990s.  Seau, who was 6-foot-4 and 250 pounds during his playing
career, made 12 Pro Bowls and totaled 56 1/2 sacks. After
leaving the Chargers in 2002, he played three seasons with the
 Miami Dolphins  and then his final four with the Patriots. He was
a captain on the 2007 New England Patriots team that went 18-0
before losing to the  New York Giants  in the Super Bowl.  Seau retired from the NFL after the 2009 season, when he
played in seven games for the Patriots. He was with the Chargers
from 1990 through 2002 and was chosen the league’s defensive
player of the year in 1992.  ‘A Fierce Competitor’  “Junior was a fierce competitor whose passion and work
ethic lifted his teammates to greater heights,” Dolphins Chief
Executive Officer Mike Dee said in a statement. “His enthusiasm
for the game was infectious and he passed that on to everyone
who was around him. He loved the game so much, and no one played
with more sheer joy.”  The previous member of the Chargers’ 1994 team, which lost
to the  San Francisco 49ers  in the  Super Bowl , to die was Lew Bush, who succumbed to a heart attack in December.  Other members of the squad who have died are running back
Rodney Culver, linebackers Dave Griggs and Doug Miller,
defensive tackle Shawn Lee, defensive end Chris Mims and center
Curtis Whitley.  Tragic 1994 Team  Griggs died in a 1995 car crash, Culver was killed in a
1996 plane crash, Miller was struck by lightning in 1998,
Whitley overdosed in 2008, Mims died of an enlarged heart the
same year and Lee suffered cardiac arrest in March 2011.  Seau in October 2010 was hospitalized with minor injuries
when his Cadillac sports utility vehicle veered off a cliff in
Carlsbad,  California , hours after he was arrested for domestic
abuse. Seau, who was conscious and behind the wheel when his car
was found about 100 feet below the road, told investigators he
didn’t try to kill himself and drove off the cliff because he
fell asleep.  Seau had been arrested about eight hours earlier in
Oceanside, the town adjacent to Carlsbad on the California coast
about 37 miles (60 kilometers) north of San Diego. Oceanside
police said they went to Seau’s apartment following a call from
his 25-year-old live-in girlfriend alleging that Seau assaulted
her during a verbal argument. Seau was released after posting
bail, police said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  