-- Ex-JPMorgan Asia-Pacific Stock Derivatives Head Plans Hedge Fund
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-05-02T00:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/ex-jpmorgan-asia-pacific-stock-derivatives-head-plans-hedge-fund.html
William Lee, who led  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s Asia-Pacific equity derivatives business, plans to start
his own hedge fund this year that will exploit mispricing in the
region’s derivative markets and broad economic trends.  Lee, 40, plans to start trading for the relative-value
hedge fund as early as November, he said in a telephone
interview. The fund will seek to profit from securities whose
prices may have deviated from their fundamental values because
of regulatory restrictions and the different trading behaviors
of institutional versus individual investors.  Lee is trying to capture investor demand for hedge funds
whose returns are not directly linked to the direction of stock
and bond markets. Relative-value drew $12.4 billion of new
capital from investors in the first quarter, almost 78 percent
of net inflows into the global hedge fund industry, according to
Chicago-based data provider  Hedge Fund Research Inc .  “A lot of retail investors who buy structured products
only care about whether the markets go up or go down,” ignoring
other factors such as volatility and dividends that affect
option pricing, said Lee. “It creates a value for us to get
in.”  The fund will seek a 12 percent to 18 percent annual return
by focusing on Asia-Pacific markets including  Greater China ,
 Australia ,  Japan , Korea,  India , Singapore and  Malaysia , Lee said.
It will trade equity, foreign exchange and fixed-income
securities and their derivatives, and will use U.S. instruments
to hedge against risk. About 30 percent of the fund’s
investments will bet on broad regional economic trends, he said.  Chasing Bigger Trends  “Local markets are quite a lot of times policy-driven,”
Lee said. “You have much bigger trends, longer time frame than
other markets.”  A fund employing such a strategy may manage at least $2
billion of assets, he said, declining to give fundraising
targets for his fund.  A Hong Kong native, Lee spent his entire 17-year career so
far at JPMorgan, joining the New York-based bank as a foreign
exchange option trader in  Singapore  in 1995.  He returned to Hong Kong in 2000 to help set up the bank’s
equity-derivatives team in Asia outside of Japan, starting with
four people. He headed its equity derivative business in Asia-
Pacific in the last three years until his departure in late
February. JPMorgan’s equity derivative market-making and trading
business in the region employed 130 people, he said.  Lee is talking to several people, including former JPMorgan
colleagues, about joining his company and will start it with at
least five people, he said, declining to identify them because
of the discussions are still continuing.  Lee earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees in computer
science from the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and also
has a law degree.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  