-- Exco Says Sale of TGGT Unit May Garner Up to $1.4 Billion
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-05-02T21:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/exco-says-sale-of-tggt-unit-may-garner-up-to-1-4-billion.html
Exco Resources Inc. (XCO)  and  BG Group Plc (BG/) 
are in talks to find a buyer for TGGT Holdings LLC, their U.S.
pipeline joint-venture company, in a deal that may be worth as
much as $1.4 billion.  Exco, which owns half of the venture, may get $500 million
to $700 million from a sale, Chief Executive Officer Douglas H. Miller said on a conference call with analysts today. Exco, a
Dallas-based natural-gas producer, failed in a bid earlier this
year to sell a one-third stake in TGGT.  TGGT transports about 1.6 billion cubic feet a day, mostly
from gas fields in Louisiana, according to slides posted for
Exco’s quarterly earnings call. Exco, struggling with  gas prices 
at 10-year lows, would use sale proceeds to pay down debt and
buy acreage in fields that produce oil. A deal on the pipeline
system may come within weeks, Miller said.  “I’d love to say 30 days right now, but give me 30 to
60,” Miller said.  BG, based in Reading, U.K., is scheduled to release its
quarterly earnings tomorrow.  “We’re in discussions with third parties about the sale of
TGGT,”  Mark Todd , a spokesman for BG, said in a phone interview
today. “Exco is leading that process.”  Exco yesterday reported a $281.7 million loss for the first
quarter, compared with net income of $21.9 million for the same
period a year earlier. The results include a writedown of oil
and gas properties as the company’s average sale price fell 37
percent from the same period last year.  The shares, which have dropped 32 percent this year, fell
4.3 percent to $6.99 at the close in  New York .  Exco said on Feb. 3 it had entered a 45-day exclusive
negotiation period with an unidentified private infrastructure
fund to sell a one-third stake in TGGT. Those discussions
expired without a deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  