-- Exporters Drop After Fischer Euro Plan: Israel Overnight
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-05-04T14:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/exporters-drop-after-fischer-euro-plan-israel-overnight.html
(Corrects May 3 story to remove reference to U.S.
overtaking  Europe  as  SodaStream (SODA) ’s largest customer in paragraph
six.)  A benchmark index of  Israeli shares 
traded in the U.S. slipped to a one-week low as exporters
declined on concern demand for their products will wane amid a
slowdown in Europe, the nation’s biggest trading partner.  SodaStream International Ltd. dropped the most this week,
while  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  slipped from a three-
month high after Bank of  Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  told a
parliamentary committee yesterday that Israel is working on a
contingency plan for a euro crisis.The  Bloomberg Israel-US
Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most traded Israeli companies in New York
retreated 0.2 percent to 90.90. Protalix BioTherapeutics Inc.
jumped 13 percent following U.S. approval of its first drug.
Israel’s TA-25 Index rose 0.8 percent in  Tel Aviv (PLX)  today.  The central bank forecasts Israel’s economic growth will
slow to 3.1 percent in 2012, from 4.8 percent last year, as the
debt crisis cuts demand and spawns Europe’s highest jobless rate
in 15 years, data yesterday showed. About 40 percent of Israel’s
gross domestic product comes from exports, with Europe
accounting for 35 percent of all trade.  “The numbers we’ve seen in regards to Europe haven’t
supported the feeling that we’ve already put the worst behind
us,” Zach Herzog, an equity sales trader at Psagot Investment
House Ltd., said by phone from  Tel Aviv  yesterday. “We’re
already seeing a slowdown in the Israeli economy and the stocks
are certainly impacted.”  SodaStream, a manufacturer of machines for making soda at
home, declined 1.6 percent to $34.43 yesterday in  New York , the
biggest one-day drop since April 27. The shares have gained 5.3
percent this year, compared with a 12 percent gain in the
Israel-US Equity gauge.  European Exports  Western Europe was Airport City, Israel-based SodaStream’s
biggest source of sales in 2010, providing 62 percent of
revenue,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. The U.S. is now the
company’s largest single country market, the company said in a
 press release  on Feb. 29.  Israel’s commodity exports, excluding diamonds, totaled
15.4 billion shekels ($4.1 billion) in March, according to an
April 29 report from Israel’s Central Bureau of Statistics.  The euro-region accounted for 35 percent of all
consumption, compared with 23 percent for the U.S., 20 percent
for Asian countries, and the rest to other nations, the data
showed.  Teva, the world’s largest generic drug maker, declined 0.3
percent to $45.74 in the U.S. yesterday, slipping from the
highest level since February reached on May 1. Teva’s Tel Aviv
stock dropped 0.4 percent today to 173.6 shekels, or the
equivalent of $45.95.  CEO Moves  The Petach Tikva, Israel-based company got 30.9 percent of
revenue from Western Europe last year, compared with 48.1
percent for  North America  and 21 percent in the rest of the
world,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Jeremy Levin, a former Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. executive
known for overseeing the U.S. drugmaker’s strategy of small
acquisitions and partnerships, will replace Teva’s chief
executive officer Shlomo Yanai this month.  ClickSoftware Technologies Ltd. (CKSW) , an Israeli  software
developer , slid 5.6 percent to $10.11 in New York, the lowest
level since January. The company’s two largest customers, the
U.S. and Europe, account for nearly  80 percent  of all sales.  ClickSoftware, also based in Petach Tikva, reported
yesterday that revenue rose 13 percent to $21.9 million in the
first quarter, compared with the $21.6 million median of four
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  TA-25 Falls  The Bloomberg Israel-US measure trades for 30 times
reported earnings of member companies, compared with a valuation
of 13 times for Tel Aviv’s TA-25 Index.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland , has about 60 companies trading on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any nation outside the U.S. after
 China . The country is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Protalix (PLX) , the biopharmaceutical company whose debut drug
was approved by the FDA yesterday, surged to $7.01 in New York
for its biggest one-day advance since Oct. 24. The Tel Aviv
shares tumbled 8.9 percent to 26.55 shekels, or the equivalent
of $7.03. They soared 14 percent yesterday.  The U.S. drug regulator cleared Protalix’s Elelyso product,
used to treat a condition known as Gaucher disease that can lead
to spleen and liver enlargement, after delaying a decision
originally slated for December.  The drug, chemically known as taliglucerase, was approved
for Type 1 Gaucher disease affecting about 6,000 people in the
U.S., the agency said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 Eobrien6@bloomberg.net  