-- Facebook Holder Accel Leads Investment in Russian Website
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-05-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/facebook-holder-accel-leads-investment-in-russian-website.html
Accel Partners, the top outside
stakeholder in  Facebook (FB)  Inc., is investing $75 million with
partners including Baring Vostok Capital Partners in Avito.ru, a
Russian classified advertising website.  Palo Alto, California-based Accel is providing the funding
along with the Baring Vostok Private Equity Fund IV and existing
Avito investors Investment AB Kinnevik and Northzone Ventures,
both based in Stockholm, according to a statement from Avito
today.  Avito , started in 2008, runs Russia’s largest classifieds
website and 40 percent of the nation’s Internet users visit the
site every month, the company said, citing data from media
researcher TNS Global. More than six million new items are added
each month by about 3 million users, according to Avito.  “With the additional funds, Avito now has more resources
to support small and medium-sized businesses using our service
in addition to catering to individuals,” said Filip Engelbert,
a co-founder and executive director at Avito, according to the
statement.  Accel holds 11.3 percent of Facebook, the world’s dominant
social networking site set to hold an initial public offering
this year, according to an April 23  filing  by Facebook. The
venture firm has also invested in  Groupon (GRPN) , the largest daily
coupon site, as well Dropbox Inc., the Web storage provider with
more than 45 million users, Avito said in a statement.  Moscow-based Baring Vostok holds 5.9 percent of  Yandex NV (YNDX) ,
Russia’s most-used Internet search engine, according to company
filings. Baring Vostok’s private equity funds have also led
investment in Russian U.S.-listed television channel  CTC Media
Inc. (CTCM) , according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 Eobrien6@bloomberg.net  