-- Factory Orders in U.S. Decrease on Pullback in Aircraft
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-05-02T14:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/factory-orders-in-u-s-drop-on-pullback-in-demand-for-aircraft.html
Orders to U.S. factories decreased in
March, restrained by a pullback in demand for aircraft that
overshadowed gains elsewhere.  Bookings fell 1.5 percent after a revised 1.1 percent gain
in February, figures from the Commerce Department showed today in
 Washington . The  median projection  of 61 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey called for a 1.6 percent decline. Turbines and
household appliances were among areas showing increases.  The report comes a day after  purchasing managers  said
manufacturing expanded in April at the fastest pace in almost a
year as orders, production and employment picked up, indicating
the slump may be short-lived. Exports and consumer spending on
big-ticket items like automobiles may be making up for a cooling
in business investment, which means factories will continue to
support the expansion.  “Manufacturing is still leading the recovery,” said  Gus
Faucher , a senior economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc.
in Philadelphia, who correctly projected the drop in orders.
“Businesses are going to continue to invest. The manufacturing
sector is going to continue to expand.”  Economists’ estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a
decline of 3 percent to little changed. The Commerce Department
revised the February figure from a previously estimated 1.3
percent increase.  Payroll Estimate  A report today from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Employer
Services showed companies added 119,000 workers to payrolls in
April, fewer than the 170,000 median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. ADP’s initial figures for March showed a
gain of 209,000, while the Labor Department said companies added
121,000 workers.  Stocks fell on the smaller-than-projected gain in ADP’s
payroll estimate. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.8
percent to 1,395.11 at 10:23 a.m. in  New York .  Factory orders minus transportation equipment rose less than
0.1 percent in March, the sixth increase in seven months, the
Commerce Department report showed.  Orders for transportation equipment dropped 13 percent, led
by a 48 percent plunge in demand for commercial planes.  Raising Production  Boeing Co. said it received orders for 53 planes in March
after demand surged to 237 a month earlier. The world’s biggest
aerospace company said last week it posted a first-quarter profit
that beat analysts’ estimates and raised its 2012 forecast as it
delivered more commercial jets while pushing production to record
levels. The Chicago-based company is boosting output by more than
60 percent in the four years through 2014 to pare a record order
backlog.  Bookings for durable goods, those meant to least at least
three years, fell 4 percent in March, less than the 4.2 percent
decline the government estimated in an April 25 report, today’s
report showed. Demand for non-durable goods, including petroleum,
increased 0.5 percent in March for a second month.  Orders for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, dropped 0.1
percent after rising 2.7 percent in February. The Commerce
Department last week estimated the March decrease at 0.8 percent.  Shipments of such equipment, which are used in calculating
gross domestic product, increased 2.6 percent after a 1.5 percent
advance in February.  Growth Slows  The world’s largest economy grew at a 2.2 percent annual
rate in the first quarter after expanding at a 3 percent pace in
the last three months of 2011, a Commerce Department report
showed last week. A 1.7 percent gain in business investment on
new equipment, the smallest increase of the expansion that began
almost three years ago, limited the advance.  Factory inventories rose 0.3 percent in March, and
manufacturers had enough goods on hand to last 1.33 months at the
current sales pace, the same as in February.  A 0.4 percent increase in unfilled orders for non-military
capital goods excluding aircraft in March may be one reason why
the purchasing managers report yesterday showed production picked
up in April.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose to
54.8 from 53.4 in March, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said
yesterday. Readings above 50 signal growth.  “While North America demand was strong in the first quarter
compared to a year ago, we are seeing a few signs of weakness in
recent order intake,” Pat Ward, chief financial officer at
 Cummins Inc. (CMI) , said yesterday on an earnings call in reference to
the company’s power generation unit.  Auto Demand  Improving demand for autos is underscoring the strength in
manufacturing. Cars and light trucks sold at a 14.38 million
annual rate last month after a 14.32 million pace in March,
according to industry data. Auto sales have exceeded a 14 million
annual pace in each of the past four months, marking the best
performance since early 2008.  Dow Chemical Co. Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  last
week said global demand for Dow’s products improved through the
first quarter as the U.S.,  Germany  and other developed economies
more than made up for lower-than-expected sales in  China . Dow is
seeing “positive signs” in transportation, construction,
electronics and manufacturing, he said in an April 26 interview.  “March showed quite a lot of strength compared with
February,” Liveris said. “The momentum continues” into the
second quarter, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  