-- Fairbank Tops Blankfein as Regional Bank Pay Gap Narrows
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-05-02T16:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/fairbank-tops-blankfein-as-regional-bank-pay-gap-narrows.html
     May 2 (Bloomberg News) -- Richard Fairbank, chief executive
officer of  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , made $19.2 million last
year, more than  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s  Lloyd Blankfein , as
the heads of Main Street banks closed the Wall Street pay gap.  The chiefs of the five largest regional lenders earned 74
cents in 2011 for every dollar awarded to the CEOs of the six
biggest U.S. banks by assets, up from 38 cents in 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The compensation spread
has narrowed as the smaller firms, which have on average one-
sixth the assets, provided better returns for investors.  Fairbank’s pay was second only to the $23 million awarded
to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s  Jamie Dimon  among leaders of the 11
biggest U.S. banks by assets. Jim Rohr, head of Pittsburgh-based
 PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , the eighth-largest lender,
made $8 million last year, more than the $7 million earned by
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s  Brian T. Moynihan , who runs the nation’s
second-biggest bank.  “It’s like tortoise versus the hare,” said Joseph Sorrentino, a managing director at compensation consultant
Steven Hall & Partners. “Wall Street firms are pushing the risk
envelope, which in good years meant big payouts, but since the
crisis has meant a lot less or no payouts.”  ‘A Handoff’  CEO pay at regional lenders is climbing as the traditional
banking business of taking deposits and making loans drives
profit gains. At the same time,  investment-banking  and trading
losses during the financial crisis, and  volatility  since then,
have damped earnings and curbed compensation at some of the
biggest firms.  “You’ve had a handoff in terms of what’s doing well,”
said Scott Siefers, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP
in New York. “Traditional banking, even though it’s still a
challenging environment, seems to be having an easier time.”  The increase in pay for the CEOs of regional lenders comes
amid protests over compensation policies at the biggest banks.
 Citigroup (C)  Inc. shareholders last month rejected a $15 million
2011 pay package for CEO Vikram Pandit, 55, after the company’s
stock fell 44 percent last year. While the vote isn’t binding,
the board will consult with shareholders “to understand their
concerns,” said Shannon Bell, a spokeswoman for the firm.  Pandit’s proposed compensation is a “major disconnect”
between performance and payout, said Frank Glassner, a San
Francisco-based partner at Meridian Compensation Partners LLC,
an executive-pay consulting firm.  Occupy Wall Street  protesters demonstrated yesterday
outside the New York offices of Bank of America and the
headquarters of Citigroup and JPMorgan to call attention to
income disparity and the role of banks in the financial crisis.  Capital One  Fairbank’s 2011 compensation at McLean, Virginia-based
Capital One, all of which was in the form of stock and options,
climbed 7 percent from 2007. He hasn’t received a salary or
bonus since 1997. U.S. Bancorp’s Richard Davis, 54, who runs the
nation’s seventh-largest lender, was awarded $10.2 million last
year, a 52 percent jump from 2007, his first full year as CEO.  Blankfein, 57, pulled in $12 million for his performance
last year, an 82 percent drop from 2007.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  CEO
James Gorman, 53, was awarded $10.5 million, compared with
predecessor John Mack’s compensation of $41 million for 2006.
Some Wall Street CEOs, including Blankfein, Dimon and Mack,
didn’t take cash bonuses for 2008. Pandit received $1 in salary
for 2010.  Shares Decline  Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, which derive most of
their revenue from trading and investment banking, each reported
billions of dollars in  losses  after the housing market
collapsed, and  profit  hasn’t recovered fully to pre-crisis
highs. Shares have fallen 42 percent and 74 percent,
respectively, at the New York-based firms from the beginning of
2007 through yesterday.  Shares of Citigroup and  Bank of America , which received the
largest government bailouts among U.S. banks, have fallen more
than 80 percent over the same period.  U.S. Bancorp’s Davis, meanwhile, hasn’t reported a
 quarterly loss  since becoming CEO at the end of 2006, and the
drop in first-quarter profit for the Minneapolis-based bank
followed eight consecutive gains. PNC’s Rohr has booked one
quarterly  loss  since the beginning of 2007.  The average share-price decline for the five regional banks
from the beginning of 2007 through the end of 2011 was 43
percent, compared with 62 percent for the six biggest banks.
Last year, the  regional banks  fell 9.9 percent on average,
compared with a 38 percent drop for the top six.  Comparing Compensation  The biggest regional banks rose an average of 27 percent
this year through yesterday, and the largest six banks gained 29
percent.  “Regional banks are performing,” said Tim White, a
managing partner at Dallas-based executive-search firm
Kaye/Bassman International Corp. “It has to do with a
consistent and expanding revenue stream.”  The pay figures are based on salaries, stock awards and
bonuses granted to CEOs for their 2011 performance compared with
what they earned for 2007. Total compensation for the heads of
the six biggest banks -- JPMorgan, Bank of America, Citigroup,
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley -- fell to
$85.4 million for 2011, from $147.8 million for 2007. Average
pay dropped 42 percent to $14.2 million in the same period. The
2007 figures for Citigroup only measure pay awarded to Pandit,
who became CEO in December of that year, taking over from acting
CEO Winfried Bischoff.  ‘Significant Uptick’  Total 2011 compensation for the heads of the next five
largest banks -- U.S. Bancorp, PNC, Capital One,  SunTrust Banks
Inc. (STI)  and  BB&T Corp. (BBT)  -- rose to $52.6 million from $46.4 million
for 2007. Average pay increased 13 percent to $10.5 million.
Figures for Atlanta-based SunTrust are based on what its CEO
took home each year, not what he was awarded, because the bank
doesn’t report that number in its proxy statements.  “We’re looking at a significant uptick in pay,” said
Meridian’s Glassner. “The regional banks are doing considerably
better on a sector-by-sector basis and on a bank-to-bank
basis.”  The biggest regional bank, U.S. Bancorp, has  assets  of $341
billion, less than half the size of Morgan Stanley, the smallest
of the top six, with $781 billion as of March 31. Average assets
at the regional lenders were $256.8 billion compared with $1.59
trillion at the six largest banks.  Spokesmen for Capital One and SunTrust said compensation
policies are designed to align CEOs’ interests with those of
shareholders. U.S. Bancorp, PNC and Winston-Salem, North
Carolina-based BB&T declined to comment.  The CEOs of most of the biggest banks have seen their
compensation fall since peaking in 2007. Blankfein was awarded
$68.5 million that year, and Dimon made $49.9 million.  Moynihan, Dimon  Bank of America awarded Moynihan $7 million for last year,
compared with the $13 million then-CEO  Kenneth D. Lewis  received
for 2007. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank sold $33
billion in assets in 2011 and announced 30,000 job cuts as
revenue stagnated and costs from defective mortgages rose.
Moynihan’s salary was unchanged, and he didn’t get a cash bonus.  Dimon, whose firm didn’t report a loss during the crisis,
saw his pay decline 54 percent from 2007.  One exception: Wells Fargo’s  John Stumpf , 58, was awarded
$17.9 million for last year, 39 percent more than for 2007.
Retail banking has  buoyed earnings  at the San Francisco-based
company, which has increased profit for eight consecutive
quarters. While the lender, the fourth-largest in the U.S. by
assets, is gaining ground in investment banking,  executives  have
said the firm will avoid riskier businesses.  ‘World Has Changed’  Regional lenders, meanwhile, are getting bigger. Capital
One’s Fairbank, 61, has spent more than $28 billion on
 acquisitions  since 2005 to expand beyond the company’s core
credit-card business. In February, he purchased ING Groep NV’s
online U.S. bank, a deal that added $84.4 billion in deposits.
PNC this year bought the U.S. retail-banking and related credit-
card assets of Royal Bank of Canada, a move that helped PNC
extend its reach in the Southeast.  The increase in customers and earnings at regional lenders
could lead to higher CEO pay, compensation consultants said.  “You’ve got the bottom group growing up in size, and
traditionally that’s been related to compensation going up,”
said  Marty Mosby , a Memphis, Tennessee-based analyst at
Guggenheim Securities LLC.  CEO pay at the largest banks is more dependent on a profit
revival, which is linked to global economic improvements, such
as a resolution of Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, compensation
consultants said.  “The world has changed in Wall Street pay, there’s no
doubt about it,” said Steven Hall’s Sorrentino, who’s based in
 New York . “Until the economy is growing at a really good rate,
profits are back to pre-crisis levels and the stock market is
going at a good clip, you’re just not going to see those pay
levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  