-- Fed’s Tarullo Concerned Momentum for Regulation Will Wane
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-05-02T14:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/fed-s-tarullo-says-he-s-concerned-regulatory-momentum-will-wane.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said regulators must press on with an overhaul of
financial regulation, focusing especially on shadow banking and
too-big-to-fail institutions.  “My concern has been that the momentum generated during
the crisis will wane or be redirected to other issues before
reforms have been completed,” Tarullo said today in a speech in
New York. It’s “sobering” that “so much remains to be done”
four years after the collapse of Bear Stearns Cos., he said.  U.S. banks have complained that tougher oversight enacted
since the financial crisis, such as stricter capital standards,
has forced them to impose tighter lending standards. Tarullo,
the governor in charge of supervision, plans to meet today with
chief executive officers of the largest U.S. banks, including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , to discuss their concerns, according to
four people familiar with the meeting.  Bankers have complained the stress tests completed in March
lack transparency and underestimate their underwriting
abilities, resulting in higher losses on some asset classes than
the lenders projected.  “If we do not complete rigorous implementation of this
complementary set of reforms, we will have lost the opportunity
to reverse the pre-crisis trajectory of increasing too-big-to-
fail risks,” Tarullo said.  ‘Basic Outlines’  Responding to audience questions, Tarullo said that while
it will probably be “several years before the full
implementation of the major sets of reforms we’re talking about
would actually be in place,” it is “reasonable” to “expect
that sometime next year the basic outlines” of those rules will
be clear.  As part of those reforms, it is “widely agreed” that
liquidity requirements are needed, such as the liquidity
coverage ratio proposed by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , Tarullo said. The assumptions used to calculate the
ratio should reflect “actual experience during the crisis,” he
said, adding the ratio overstates the liquidity risks of
commercial banking.  Regulators should also consider adapting that proposal to
make it “credibly clear that ordinary minimum liquidity levels
need not be maintained in the midst of a crisis,” he said.
Otherwise, it “might have the unintended effect of exacerbating
a period of stress by forcing liquidity hoarding,” he said.  Fragility of System  While regulators have come up with a “well-defined set”
of rules to address too big-to-fail, “the same cannot be said”
for the fragility of the shadow banking system, Tarullo said.
The need for changes in money-market funds and the market for
 repurchase agreements  “is compelling,” he said.  “In periods of high stress, with substantial uncertainty
as to the value of important asset classes, questions about
liquidity and solvency could still arise, even with respect to
well-regulated institutions,” Tarullo said. “It cannot be
overemphasized that this systemic effect can materialize even if
no firms were individually considered too-big-to-fail.”  In February, the New York Fed said it would increase
oversight of efforts to protect the market for borrowing and
lending securities after an industry group, the Tri-Party Repo
Infrastructure Task Force, said more time was needed for it to
meet goals for reducing risk.  “An industry initiative to address the issue led to some
important operational improvements to the tri-party market, but,
to be frank, fell short of dealing comprehensively with this
problem,” Tarullo said. “So it now falls to the regulatory
agencies to take appropriate regulatory and supervisory measures
to mitigate these and other risks.”  Short-Term Funding  Repos are transactions used by the Fed’s primary dealers
for short-term funding and typically involve the sale of U.S.
government securities in exchange for cash, with the debt held
as collateral for the loan. Dealers agree to repurchase the
securities at a later date, and cash is sent back to the lender,
typically a money-market mutual fund.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party, one of two
clearing banks, functions as the agent for the transaction and
holds the security as collateral.  Tarullo said in response to an audience question about the
future of the mortgage market that “we’re not likely to see the
restart of a sustainable, well-developed, well-functioning,
private securitization market until there’s more clarity on what
role” government-sponsored enterprises are going to play.  Clarifying regulations is also necessary so that “private
market actors” can also judge which securitization and
financing activities will be profitable, he said.  “It’s going to be hard to see more than moderate
increases” in securitization by private firms, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 salas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  