-- Ferguson Plans $162 Million Spree on Players: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-02T09:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/ferguson-plans-162-million-spree-on-players-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Spending Spree  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  will launch a 100
million-pound ($162.3 million) spending spree in the off-season
to try and prevent Manchester City becoming the Premier League’s
dominant team, the  Daily Express reported .  Ferguson knows his squad needs strengthening even if United
takes advantage of a City slip-up to win the title and is lining
up bids for Lille’s Eden Hazard, Tottenham’s Luka Modric and
Athletic Bilbao striker  Fernando Llorente , the newspaper said.
Two defenders are also being considered, with Valencia left-back
Jordi Alba on the radar, the Express added.  Funds Promised  Ferguson will set about drawing up a list of transfer
targets after being promised funds by United Chief Executive
Officer David Gill, the  Daily Star reported .  Although his priority will be to sign a right-back and
boost an aging midfield, Ferguson may make a shock bid to lure
Barcelona defender  Gerard Pique  back to Old Trafford, the
newspaper added.  16-Club Competition  Liverpool is chasing Netherlands striker Luuk  de Jong ,
who’s scored 30 goals for  FC Twente  this season, though it faces
competition from 15 other clubs, the  Sun reported .  De Jong, who is under contract until 2014, is rated at 12
million pounds and may quit Twente if the club fails to qualify
for a European competition next season, the Sun added.  Scouting Reschedule  Liverpool is also preparing another scouting mission on AZ
Alkmaar midfielder Rasmus Elm, the  Daily Mail reported .  The birth of Elm’s first child at the weekend forced the
Sweden international to pull out of a game, leaving manager
 Kenny Dalglish  to reschedule another trip as the Reds consider
making an offer of 7 million pounds for the 24-year-old, the
Mail added.  Bruised Not Broken  Manchester United striker  Danny Welbeck  remains on course
for selection in  England ’s European Championship squad after a
scan revealed he sustained only heavy bruising in a tackle
during the 1-0 loss to Manchester City two days ago, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  Welbeck left the Etihad Stadium on crutches and wearing a
protective boot on his right leg and complained of being in
severe pain on the team bus, prompting fears that he had
suffered a fracture, the Telegraph added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  