-- Fighter Jets, Missiles Will Protect London Olympic Site
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-05-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/fighter-jets-missiles-to-protect-london-during-2012-olympics.html
Britain will use fighter jets and
missiles to defend London against “a September 11-style
attack,” during this year’s  Olympic Games , Air Vice-Marshal
Stuart Atha said as a large-scale security exercise began.  Four Typhoon jets landed amid gray skies at the RAF
Northolt base in west London yesterday, marking the start of an
eight-day operation to test the response to an unknown aircraft
entering the U.K. capital’s airspace. It’s the first time
fighters have been stationed at the base since Spitfires took
off from there during the Battle of Britain in World War II.  Although there is no specific threat, Britain is preparing
for attacks ranging from “a 9/11-type with an airliner” to an
assault using remote-controlled planes, Atha, the air component
commander for Olympics air security, said at the base.  “Defending the skies over the U.K. is an enduring task,”
said Atha, who is a qualified Typhoon pilot. “It’s the highest
priority we as the Royal Air Force have. Protecting the
homeland, defending the U.K. skies and that is as true as it was
in 1940 as it is today in 2012.”  Airmen, soldiers and sailors will take part in the
operation, called Exercise Olympic Guardian, which ends May 10.
It will involve Army Air Corps and Royal Navy Lynx helicopters
from the H.M.S. Ocean on the river Thames, airborne surveillance
aircraft orbiting  London  and Royal Navy Sea King helicopters
also temporarily based at Northolt.  ‘Small’ Possibility  Gordon Lovett, one of four Typhoon pilots who landed at
Northolt, said he’s optimistic that he won’t have to do much
flying during the actual London games, which start July 27.  “I’m hoping not do any, and I’m sure everyone else is as
well,” said Lovett, who is the detachment commander for the
Typhoons, which are normally based at RAF Conningsby, 134 miles
north of London.  The pilots are well-prepared for the “worst-case
scenario” of a suspicious aircraft entering London airspace.  “The possibility of that is very, very small,” Atha said.
“But it is something we prepare ourselves physically and
psychologically for. There are a range of things that we would
have in place for what is clearly a very unlikely set of
circumstances. But we have thought through how we would deal
with that. The decision to shoot down is made at the highest
level of government.”  Security Spending  At the end of last year, the U.K. government doubled its
security budget for the Olympics to 553 million pounds ($895
million) after a review found more staff was needed. Surface-to-
air missiles could be stationed on the rooftops of an apartment
block in east London two miles from the Olympic Park as part of
the 2012 security plan, the  Associated Press  reported on April
29. Some 13,500 British troops on land, at sea and in the air
will be used to protect the Games.  The exercise is as much about deterring “those with malign
intent” as “reassuring the minds of the public,” Atha said.  Although most aircraft taking part in the exercise will fly
between 4,000 feet and 2,000 feet above ground level, some will
occasionally operate at 1,000 feet or even at 500 feet.  “We recognize this may cause a disturbance,” the Royal
Air Force said in a press release. “We have taken steps to
ensure that flying activity takes place at times that keeps this
disturbance to a minimum.”  Northolt is older than the RAF, starting as an airfield in
1915 in response to Zeppelin raids over the city. It was the
first field to host the Hurricane fighters, and was home to
several Spitfire squadrons, including a Polish wing, that fought
the German  air force  for control of the British skies in 1940.  “It’s rather nice we’re back defending the capital
again,” RAF Northolt station commander Tim O’Brien said, as he
watched a Typhoon jet land and then immediately take off again.
“The station has got a very strong tradition with fighters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at RAF Northolt through the London sports desk
at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  