-- Foreigners Sell Indian Equities in April on Tax Concerns
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-05-03T07:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/foreigners-sell-indian-equities-in-april-as-tax-concerns-weigh.html
Foreign  funds  turned net sellers of
Indian stocks in April, the first month of withdrawals in 2012,
deterred by proposed changes in tax rules in the fourth-largest
equity market in  Asia  outside  Japan .  Offshore investors sold a net  $102.6 million  of local
equities last month, data compiled by the market regulator
yesterday showed. Funds, who were net buyers in each of the
previous three months, have invested a  net  $8.76 billion into
Indian shares this year.  “Long-term investors into India aren’t increasing their
exposure as the horizon isn’t clear,” A.S. Thiyaga Rajan, a
senior managing director at Aquarius Investment Advisors Pte. in
 Singapore , which has been investing in India since 1995 and has
about $400 million in Indian assets, wrote in an e-mail.
“First, there is uncertainty on tax. Second is the continuing
depreciation of the rupee given weak economic fundamentals.”  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  proposed in March to
introduce the General Anti-Avoidance Rule, or GAAR, to curb
evasion of taxes by companies through misuse of tax treaties
with other countries. Foreign funds are concerned the new rule
may apply to their holdings of domestic shares, prompting U.S.
trade and lobby groups to raise the matter in an April 17 letter
to U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who discussed
the plans last month with Mukherjee.  India’s $1.2 trillion market is influenced by flows from
overseas. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  was the best performer
among the world’s top 10 markets in 2010 when the nation took in
a record $29.4 billion. The gauge sank 52 percent in 2008, its
biggest annual slump, when withdrawals reached an all-time high.
Flows into Indian equities this year are the highest in Asia
outside of Japan after  South Korea , which received a net $9.54
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Needs to be Competitive’  “India, with its current-account deficit, needs to be
competitive when attracting global capital,”  Adrian Mowat , the
chief Asia and emerging-market strategist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., who has been investing in India since 1993, said by e-mail.
“The country is unique in charging capital-gains tax to foreign
institutional investors.”  India’s $1.7 trillion economy slowed for four consecutive
quarters through December.  Gross domestic product  probably grew
6.9 percent in the year ended March, the least in three years,
according to government estimates. The slowdown has sapped  tax
revenue  even as subsidies spur spending, leaving India with the
widest budget gap among the so-called BRIC group of biggest
 emerging markets  that also includes Brazil, Russia and  China .  The Sensex lost 0.8 percent to 17,169.64 at 12:26 p.m. in
Mumbai, headed for the biggest drop in more than a week.  ‘Need Clarity’  “Foreign investors are taking another look at  India ,”
Mohammed Apabhai, head of Asia trading strategy at Citigroup
Inc., told Bloomberg UTV today. “One of the big issue is this
talk about capital gains tax. We need more clarity from the
government on what exactly it is trying to do.”  The rupee weakened to a four-month low of 53.285 a dollar
today. The current-account deficit was $19.6 billion in the
three months through December, the worst quarterly performance
on record. Mukherjee in his budget speech on March 16 estimated
the fiscal deficit at 5.9 percent of GDP in the 12 months ended
March and sought to cut the gap to 5.1 percent this financial
year by raising taxes and proposing to cap a subsidy program.  “GAAR would help government revenues, but would do more
harm in the medium term,” Adrian Lim, a Singapore-based senior
investment manager at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, said in an
interview with Bloomberg UTV on April 30. “Foreign investors
want a predictable, level-playing field.”  Vodafone Notice  The proposed changes to tax rules, which will be discussed
by lawmakers in the current parliamentary session, followed a
ruling in January by India’s  Supreme Court  that  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD)  doesn’t have to pay $2.2 billion in tax on its purchase,
conducted offshore, of the Indian business of Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd. in 2007.  Vodafone, the biggest cell-phone company, has threatened to
pursue international arbitration should India proceed with the
plans. The operator’s Dutch unit served a notice of dispute to
the government on April 17, invoking an investment treaty
between India and the Netherlands.  The proposed tax provisions won’t apply to holders of
participatory notes, or derivatives held overseas, Mukherjee
said in March. Investments through the notes were 15 percent of
11.07 trillion rupees that foreigners had in stocks, bonds and
derivatives at the end of March, data from the regulator show.  Participatory notes allow foreigners not registered in the
country to invest in the stock market.  Unrealized Gains  Macquarie’s Asia hedge fund has exited its short positions
in Indian single-stock futures in response to the proposed tax
rules, Reuters reported on April 23, citing a letter to clients
from Nick Bird, the fund’s portfolio manager. The fund could
become liable for tax on unrealized gains after April 1, while
open positions in single-stock futures might also be liable,
Bird told clients, according to the report.  The Sensex has risen 11 percent this year as foreign funds
bought local stocks on optimism the central bank would reduce
 interest rates  after record increases in funding costs eroded
corporate profits. Earnings for four, or 33 percent, of the 12
Sensex companies that have posted results for the three months
ended March 31, have missed analysts’ estimates. In comparison,
47 percent of the 30 Sensex companies lagged behind forecasts in
the December quarter.  “Earnings seem to have bottomed and should recover from
here on and that will be the magnet that will bring back flows
irrespective of how the tax issue evolves,”  Arjuna Mahendran ,
the Singapore-based head of Asia investment strategy at  HSBC
Private Bank , told Bloomberg UTV yesterday. “India offers
global investors superior rates of growth. I can’t see large
institutional investors, including us, departing because of
this,” he said, referring to the proposed changes in tax rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  