-- Former President Clinton Says Europe Austerity Won’t Work
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-05-02T22:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/former-president-clinton-says-europe-austerity-won-t-work.html
Former President  Bill Clinton  said
European leaders need to focus on multiyear plans for economic
stimulus to spur growth instead of relying on austerity
measures.  “What our friends in  Europe  have to work out and what we
should be encouraging is a strategy that should work over a 5-
year period and then over a 10-year period,” Clinton said today
in a speech at the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly
Hills, California. “There simply is not enough growth.”  Clinton criticized high levels of borrowing and a lack of
focus on employment initiatives, as reports showed euro-region
unemployment rose to the highest in almost 15 years and
manufacturing contracted for a ninth month. European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said last month European leaders
need to create a “growth compact” as spending cuts across the
region damp activity and prompt a backlash among citizens.  Europe doesn’t have a mechanism for struggling countries to
leave the euro region, Clinton said. He drew a comparison to
Argentina and Ecuador choosing to link to the  U.S. dollar  and
adopt the currency, respectively, in the 1990s and 2000s, which
he called a sound strategy “as long as we were on the up
escalator.”  ‘Exit Strategy’  “The difference between them and  Greece  was they could
unhook and devalue,” Clinton said. “A lot of people didn’t
like it, but it wasn’t calamitous. There was an exit strategy.”  Clinton said the U.S. presidential election will be long on
promises the candidates can’t keep. The most important question
policy makers can ask today is “How?” rather than “What?” or
“How much?,” he said.  “Seventy percent of what we hear won’t make a lick of
sense,” Clinton said.  The biggest political divide in the U.S. isn’t between
liberals and conservatives, he said. It’s between
“communitarians” like himself and “separatists” who are
suspicious that government is engaged in a “secret drive to
take more away from us,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in  New York  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  