-- Franklin’s Profit Stagnates on Lower Stock-Fund Assets
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-05-02T20:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/franklin-s-profit-stagnates-on-lower-stock-fund-assets.html
Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN) , manager of
the Franklin and Templeton mutual funds,  said  first-quarter
earnings stagnated as declining stock-fund assets hurt fees.  Net income for the three months ended March 31 was
unchanged at $503 million, or $2.32 a share, from $503 million
or $2.25 a year earlier, the  San Mateo , California-based company
said today in a statement.  Franklin’s equity assets fell 2.9 percent to $300 billion
in the 12 months ended March 31 as bond assets climbed 15
percent to $317 billion. Chief Executive Officer Gregory
Johnson, in a campaign called “2020 Vision,” has been urging
investors to put more money into stock funds, arguing that in
the coming years equities are likely to deliver better returns
than they did in the past decade.  “We continue to see a flood of money coming into bonds
which aren’t as profitable as equities for money managers,”
William Smead, chief executive officer of Smead Capital
Management Inc. said in a telephone interview. The Seattle-based
firm, which oversees $190 million, holds Franklin shares.  Franklin fell 3.3 percent to $121.74 in  New York , the most
since Jan. 11. They gained 27 percent this year compared to an
increase of 16 percent for the  Standard & Poor’s  index of asset
managers and custody banks.  Franklin’s profit was helped by $82.4 million in investment
income as the market rally drove gains on securities held on its
balance sheet. Franklin was expected to earn $2.23 a share, the
 average estimate  of nine analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Lower Quality’  “The beat was lower quality -- primarily driven by higher
non-operating income,”  Michael Kim , an analyst with Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP in New York, said today. Kim has a buy
rating on the stock with a price target of $145 a share.  Chief Financial Officer Kenneth Lewis, in pre-recorded
remarks, attributed the increase in non-operating profits, which
rose 43 percent from a year earlier, to the “strong market
backdrop” in the first three months of the year.  Franklin’s expenses rose 6 percent to $1.18 billion as
revenues rose 3 percent to $1.8 billion. The firm’s operating
margins shrank to 34.3 percent from 36 percent a year earlier.  Investors put $3.4 billion into Franklin’s fixed-income
funds during the quarter, $2.2 billion into so-called hybrid
funds that blend stocks and bonds, and $400 million into
equities. The average fee on a stock fund is 1.4 percent
compared to 1 percent for a bond fund, data from Chicago-based
Morningstar show.  Like Franklin’s Johnson,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Chief Executive
Officer Laurence D. Fink, who leads the world’s biggest asset
manager, has advised clients to put their money into equities as
bond yields have shrunk to record lows.  Stock-Fund Withdrawals  Investors aren’t heeding that advice so far. In the year
ended March 31, equity funds suffered withdrawals of $130
billion while bond funds attracted $191 billion, according to
data from Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   Performance at the company’s flagship fund, the $61 billion
 Templeton Global Bond Fund (TPINX) , bounced back this year after it
trailed 91 percent of rivals in 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The fund, managed by  Michael Hasenstab , gained 7.2
percent in 2012, better than 94 percent of peers. Over five
years, it has topped 98 percent of competitors.  Hasenstab’s bets on emerging market currencies failed to
pay off last year, a situation he blamed on “temporary panic
and contagion as opposed to fundamentals problems,” in a
September note posted on Franklin’s website. The fund had 48
percent of its assets in Asian currencies as of March 31, data
on the website shows.  Templeton Global Bond attracted a net $15 billion in the
first 10 months of 2011, the most of any U.S. mutual fund,
according to Morningstar. In the last two months of the year
investors withdrew $1.8 billion after performance slumped. In
the first three months of this year, investors added $384
million to the fund. Hasenstab oversees about $160 billion in
assets,  Matthew Walsh , a Franklin spokesman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  