-- French Candidates Clash on How to Emulate Germany to Create Jobs
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t ,   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-05-02T21:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/french-candidates-clash-on-how-best-to-emulate-german-economy.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and
Socialist Francois Hollande clashed in their only campaign
debate over everything from how to emulate German employment
gains and euro bonds to the role of the  European Central Bank .  In heated exchanges, marked by the candidates calling each
other a liar, Sarkozy and Hollande elaborated on differences
over how to rekindle growth with joblessness in  France  at the
highest level in 12 years.  Germany ’s unemployment rate is 6.8
percent, against 9.8 percent in France.  “Unemployment has increased,” Hollande said to Sarkozy.
“In Germany they make room for social partners, unlike in
France.” For his part, Sarkozy said, “after criticizing
Germany, it suddenly inspires you.” He said Germany raised
sales taxes to help finance lower social charges and unions
backed a balanced budget rule that Hollande opposes.  The war of words between the two candidates came as Sarkozy
fought for his last chance to turn the tide against Hollande
before the May 6 runoff. The challenger led with 53.5 percent to
46.5 percent, according to a survey of voting intentions
published by BVA today. There was no margin of error published.  The two candidates sat 2 1/2 meters apart in their first
face-to-face confrontation of the campaign. The event was
broadcast on eight television channels and six  radio stations .  Growth, Debt  Hollande said Europe needs growth to avoid a return of the
region’s crisis.  Europe faces a “possible resurgence of the crisis due to a
lack of growth,” Hollande said.  France has no alternative to cutting its debt and deficit,
Sarkozy said. “Growth, yes, but not at the expense of cutting
debt and deficit,” Sarkozy said.  While Hollande advocated the issue of euro bonds guaranteed
by the 17 countries using the common currency, to raise funding
for debt-strapped countries, Sarkozy reiterated his opposition
to such securities. Germany is opposed to euro bonds.  “Who will guarantee them if it’s not France and Germany?”
he said. “Should we raise our debt to pay the debts of others?
It’s irresponsible.”  Sarkozy said the ECB has done “pretty well” in fighting
the region’s sovereign debt crisis given the constraints of its
mandate.  “I think the ECB has done pretty well,” Sarkozy said.
“This is a global crisis. You think it was easy? I’m not sure
you’d have done much better than us.  Europe  has got out of the
crisis.”  The Platforms  Hollande’s platform includes the hiring of 60,000 school
teachers and imposing a 75 percent tax on incomes of 1 million
euros ($1.3 million) a year.  He also wants to split banks’ retail and investment
businesses, renegotiate the European Union’s fiscal accord to
add growth measures and withdraw French troops from  Afghanistan 
by the end of this year.  Sarkozy wants to create levies for tax exiles and large
French companies, introduce a “Buy European Act,” revise the
Schenghen accord to cap illegal immigration and reduce the
number of legal immigrants by half.  He will also require long- term unemployed to seek job
training, threatening to cut their benefits if they refuse jobs
in their new field.  Both plan to balance the government budget, Sarkozy by 2016
and Hollande by 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net  