-- Fuchs Chief Says Oil Companies ‘Losing Interest’ in Lubricants
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-05-02T12:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/fuchs-chief-says-oil-companies-losing-interest-in-lubricants.html
Fuchs Petrolub AG (FPE)  Chief Executive
Officer Stefan Fuchs said the global lubricants industry will
change as some oil companies switch focus while private equity
and emerging-market energy companies invest in the sector.  Some of the “classic” oil companies are “losing
interest” in lubricants, Fuchs said on a call, without giving
names. Fuchs’s competitors include Infineum, a joint venture
created by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in 1999,
and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Oronite.  The $9 billion purchase of Lubrizol Corp. by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  marked private equity interest
in lubricants. Financial sponsors are becoming more active in
the industry, Fuchs said. They join cash-rich oil and
petrochemical companies from  Asia  that are seeking  expansion,
he said.  “The lubricant world is changing,” said CEO Fuchs.
“There are big vertically integrated companies from the
developing markets that want to grow globally. They are the
sleeping giants that have enormous financial resources in the
new markets.”  Exxon and Shell considered a sale of their Infineum
operation in 2007. More recently, lubricant operations of  oil
companies  have attracted investment, with new plants being built
as growth in demand outpaces gasoline trends. Global demand for
lubricants totals 35 million tons, led by surging sales in the
Asia-Pacific region, Fuchs said in a presentation.  Fuchs, the world’s largest independent lubricants maker, is
concentrating on higher-margin products and building new
facilities, the CEO said. Acquisition targets are being
monitored, he added.  Acquisitions Hunt  “We will look at targets but they have to make strategic
and financial sense,” Fuchs said. “We’ll have to wait and see
how the market changes and what opportunities there are. Our
balance sheet leaves us a lot of room.”  The company’s capital expenditure was 22.3 million euros
($29 million) in the first quarter, with spending on a new
technology center in  Mannheim , a factory in  Russia  and the
modernization of a site in the U.S., it said in a first-quarter
earnings report today.  Majority owned by the Fuchs family, the company today
reported first-quarter earnings before interest and tax of 72.5
million euros, ahead of a 68.7 million-euro analyst estimate.
Sales of 448.4 million euros also beat estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  