-- Fusion-io Bidder Seen Winning Wozniak’s Facebook Sales: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-05-03T14:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/fusion-io-bidder-seen-winning-wozniak-s-facebook-sales-real-m-a.html
Fusion-io Inc. (FIO) , the maker of flash-
memory technology that counts  Facebook Inc. (FB)  as its biggest
customer and  Steve Wozniak  as chief scientist, is also offering
potential buyers three times the average growth of its rivals.  Fusion-io’s  revenue  is projected to climb 82 percent in the
next two years, the fastest rate among its competitors in the
data storage industry, according to analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Even with the  shares  down 18 percent through
yesterday since Fusion-io reported higher costs last week,
investors were still willing to pay $6.25 for every dollar of
2012 sales to own the stock as companies shift to flash memory,
which can access data faster than traditional  storage devices .  While Fusion-io is more expensive relative to sales and
earnings than its rivals, the $2.1 billion company would be able
to fetch as much as $40 a share in a takeover, said ThinkEquity
LLC, 50 percent more than its 20-day average. Buying Fusion-io,
which went public in June with  Apple (AAPL)  Inc. co-founder Wozniak as
chief scientist, could help companies from Dell Inc. to Hewlett-
Packard Co. and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  make their
servers run faster, said Benchmark Co. and Piper Jaffray Cos.  “Fusion-io is one of the pioneers” in the shift to flash-
based storage,  Rajesh Ghai , a San Francisco-based analyst for
ThinkEquity, said in a phone interview. “If you have a company
that’s in an attractive market and has leadership in that
technology, it is going to be a strong acquisition candidate.”  Robert Brumfield, a spokesman for Salt Lake City-based
Fusion-io, didn’t respond to a phone call or e-mail seeking
comment.  Apple Co-Founder  David Frink , a spokesman for  Round Rock , Texas-based  Dell (DELL) ,
Michael Thacker of  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard
and  Doug Shelton  for IBM in Armonk, New York, said the companies
don’t comment on speculation, when asked whether they have
considered a takeover of Fusion-io.  Shares of Fusion-io climbed as much as 5.1 percent today
and were up 0.8 percent to $23.92 at 9:55 a.m. in New York.  Founded in 2005, Fusion-io combines software and memory
chips to speed the rate that server computers can access data.
The flash-memory cards have no moving parts, unlike traditional
disks that rely on spinning platters to hold information.  Facebook, owner of the world’s most popular social-
networking service, is Fusion-io’s biggest  customer  and
accounted for 36 percent of revenue in the year ended June 2011,
according to a regulatory filing. About 24 percent of sales came
from Apple, which Wozniak co-founded in 1976 and is now the
world’s most valuable company, and 14 percent from Hewlett-
Packard. Fusion-io has also added Salesforce.com Inc. and
 Pandora Media Inc. (P)  as customers.  ‘Certainly Looks Expensive’  Since Fusion-io’s initial public offering 11 months ago,
the shares climbed  25 percent  through yesterday, almost three
times the gain for the Russell 1000 Index.  At 6.25 times estimated sales of $342 million for the year
ending in June, Fusion-io had a higher valuation than all 15 of
its publicly traded competitors in the data storage industry
that were identified in its annual  regulatory filing .  After reaching its first  annual profit  in fiscal 2011,
Fusion-io traded yesterday at  2,372 times  earnings in the last
12 months and was also the most expensive in the group relative
to estimated earnings for the next two years, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Fusion-io’s rivals had a median price-to-
earnings ratio of 15.  “If you put it in perspective with a lot of other tech
hardware names, Fusion-io certainly looks expensive,” Andrew Nowinski, a Minneapolis-based analyst for Piper Jaffray, said in
a phone interview. “But this market is a very large
opportunity. They should be garnering a significant M&A
premium.”  Surging Sales  A buyer would be paying up for sales that analysts  estimate 
will climb 82 percent to $623 million in 2014 from the current
fiscal year. That compares with an average growth rate among its
competitors of more than 27 percent in the next two years, the
data show.  “Three years back it didn’t have any revenues and right
now it’s at the cusp of generating about $100 million a
quarter,” said Ghai of ThinkEquity. “It’s obviously growing
very fast.”  Hewlett-Packard (HPQ) , IBM or Dell may be interested in acquiring
Fusion-io to gain its flash memory-based technology that’s used
in the servers that each of them sells, said Gary Mobley, a St.
Louis-based analyst for Benchmark, who puts the odds of an
acquisition at more than 50 percent. Buying Fusion-io would give
them a newer, high-margin product with the opportunity to
increase revenue as companies such as Facebook and Apple expand
their data centers, he said.  ‘Getting the Benefits’  By putting Fusion-io’s memory cards inside the servers,
data needed for running applications such as Facebook’s social-
networking website or Apple’s  iCloud  online service can be
accessed faster, according to Piper Jaffray’s Nowinski.  Fusion-io’s product “dramatically improves the performance
of a server,” he said. “Any one of those vendors, they’re all
getting the benefits of Fusion-io and can’t really differentiate
their server platform from the other. They would benefit from
owning Fusion-io, really being able to leverage that technology
and make it more proprietary to their own platform.”  Still, Fusion-io may be too pricey for potential buyers as
it struggles to remain profitable, Richard Shannon, a
Minneapolis-based analyst for Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC,
said in a phone interview.  Analysts estimate the company will report a  net loss , on an
unadjusted basis, of almost $11 million this year after profit
of $4.6 million last year.  ‘Less Positive’  “I am a lot less positive on the company being bought out
because of valuation,” Shannon said. “It is extremely
expensive.”  Josef Schuster, founder of Chicago-based Ipox Schuster LLC,
which bought shares in Fusion-io’s IPO, said the company may not
yet be “seasoned enough” for an acquisition. Potential buyers
need more time to gauge the publicly traded business, said
Schuster, whose firm oversees about $2 billion tied to indexes
that track IPOs.  As corporations require faster and faster data speeds,
Fusion-io’s future sales potential may be enough to lure buyers,
said ThinkEquity’s Ghai. He estimates Fusion-io could fetch $35
to $40 a share in a takeover, based on revenue multiples paid in
comparable transactions and the stock’s  all-time high  of $40.34
in November. The shares closed yesterday at $23.72.  “People value these companies based on where they could be
in a few years’ time, rather than where they are right now,”
Ghai said. “As long as there are customers willing to buy this
technology and replace existing traditional storage
architectures, Fusion-io appears to be an attractive company to
buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 