-- Gene Therapy Safe in Decade-Long HIV Study That May Widen Use
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-05-02T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/gene-therapy-safe-in-decade-long-hiv-study-that-may-widen-use.html
HIV patients given gene therapy more
than a decade ago are healthy and the altered DNA they received
remains stable in their bodies, according to a study that
scientists say proves the treatment may safely be tested as a
way to attack other illnesses.  All except two of 43 people treated with genetically-
altered versions of their own infection-fighting  T cells  were
healthy as many as 11 years later, according to the research
reported today in the journal  Science Translational Medicine .  Previous uses of gene therapy in experiments have suggested
that leukemia caused by the viruses that transfer the genes to
the cells might be a risk. Today’s finding allays that concern,
enabling researchers to move beyond immediately life-threatening
illnesses, such as HIV and cancer, said  Bruce Levine , a study
author and researcher at the  University of Pennsylvania .  “We turned those cells into heat-seeking missiles directed
against HIV-infected cells,” said Levine, head of the Clinical
Cell and Vaccine Production Facility at the Philadelphia
university’s Perelman School of Medicine. “What really
surprised us was when we got those samples, not only could we
detect the gene-modified cells but they appeared to be present
at relatively stable levels.”  Because the therapy has been found to work safely over a
significant period of time, the designer cells should be
considered a platform technology that can also be used by
scientists researching other diseases besides HIV, Levine in a
telephone interview.  Designer T Cells  Each patient in the study cited today received at least one
transfusion of their own immune cells between 1998 and 2005. The
T cells were designed to look for an HIV protein and kill any
infected cells they encountered, before the virus has a chance
to mature.  “It’s like a controlled burn,” Levine said.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  required the patients
be followed for 15 years to see if any late-developing side-
effects, such as cancer, might arise from the therapy. The
patients were followed every year after their initial dose.  No gene therapy has been approved by the FDA. The field
almost halted in 1999, when 18-year-old Jesse Gelsinger died
within hours of being injected. Earlier, in a French trial, two
of 10 patients acquired leukemia following gene therapy for
“Bubble Boy disease,” or severe combined immunodeficiency.  Last year, Levine and co-author Carl June, also at the
University of Pennsylvania, published research that used
modified T cells to fight off leukemia in two patients. Both
patients remain in remission 18 and 19 months after getting the
treatment, Levine said.  ‘No Good Options’  “In the case of our leukemia patients, they had no good
options,” Levine said. “How do you do  drug development  if
you’re always and only testing in the most-advanced patients?
There has to be a point where there’s enough experience with the
drug, in this case, the T cells, where you can test them with a
less-advanced disease.”  Levine and June began working together when Levine joined
June’s Navy research lab as a post-doctoral researcher on the
HIV research. When June’s wife, Cynthia, was diagnosed with
ovarian cancer in 1996, June was galvanized to see how his
experience with the immune system might help cancer patients. He
moved to the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, where
Levine joined him.  Today’s finding suggests the altered immune, or T cells,
could continue killing HIV for decades, assuming the cells
continue to decay at the same rate and depending on the dosage
of the infusion, Levine said. It’s difficult to pinpoint the
duration of effectiveness beyond nine years because of the
limited numbers of samples, the study concluded.  Lab Results  When the cells were taken out of the patients and studied
in the lab, they were still able to proliferate in the presence
of HIV targets and attack, he said.  There are some limitations on the data, according to  Michel
Sadelain , director of the Center for Cell Engineering at
 Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in  New York .  First, the cells weren’t shown to be functioning in the
patients, merely in the lab dishes. That doesn’t mean they
aren’t functioning in the patients; it means that researchers
should be cautious in interpreting that finding, said Sadelain,
who wasn’t involved in the study.  Second, while the therapy was found to be safe, it didn’t
bring HIV in the bodies of the patients studied down to
undetectable levels, possibly because the dosage of T cells
wasn’t high enough, Sadelain said. An ideal safety finding would
be in a highly effective therapy, he said.  “It’s nonetheless encouraging,” said Sadelain, who also
works with designer T cells.  Leukemia Research  His group is focused on leukemia, and he is collaborating
with the Penn researchers to determine the most-effective way of
treating patients.  “This adds to the rise of this approach,” he said of the
latest finding. “It’s been over a decade in the making and it’s
been met with relatively broad skepticism.”  Levine and June are also working with  Sangamo Biosciences (SGMO) 
Inc., a Richmond, California-based biotechnology company that
develops gene-regulation factors, on designer white-blood cells
that mimic a mutant gene that blocks HIV from entering the cells  In September, Sangamo presented data at a scientific
conference showing that its gene therapy helped six patients
fight off HIV without use of other drugs. The most common side
effect for patients was a persistent smell of garlic, the study
found.  Today’s study was funded by the  National Institutes of
Health  in Bethesda,  Maryland , the University of Pennsylvania
Center for AIDS Research, and the Infectious Diseases Clinical
Research Program, a U.S. Department of Defense project. Some of
the study patients were recruited by Cell Genesys, now a unit of
 BioSante Pharmaceuticals Inc. (BPAX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 