-- General Growth Interested in Vornado Malls, Mathrani Says
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-05-02T20:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/general-growth-interested-in-vornado-malls-mathrani-says.html
General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP)  Chief
Executive Officer  Sandeep Mathrani  said his company would be
interested in buying  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) ’s best shopping malls
should they be put up for sale.  “I like the malls, and I’m sure if they come to market
we’d hope to be able to participate in attempting to buy the ‘A’
malls,” Mathrani said today in response to a question about
Vornado’s plans on General Growth’s quarterly conference call
with analysts.  Vornado plans to “reduce our exposure to the enclosed-mall
business,” Steven Roth, the company’s chairman, said in his
annual  letter  to investors on April 13. Before becoming CEO of
Chicago-based General Growth last year, Mathrani was president
of New York-based Vornado’s retail division.  Investor demand for malls is rising as landlords boost
rents and occupancies amid increasing consumer spending.
Vornado, in its latest annual report, listed seven properties in
its regional-mall portfolio. The retail centers are in  New York ,
New Jersey, Virginia and Puerto Rico, and include Springfield
Mall in Springfield, Virginia, a 1.4 million-square-foot
(130,000-square-meter) property that the company plans to
continue renovating, Roth said in the letter.  General Growth, the biggest U.S. shopping-mall owner after
 Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , said yesterday that funds from
operations excluding some items rose in the first quarter as
tenant sales increased.  General Growth  rose  2.3 percent to $18.34 today in New
York. The shares have gained 13 percent in the past year.
Vornado climbed 0.1 percent to $87.60 today and has lost 9.5
percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  