-- German Jobless Unexpectedly Up in April as Crisis Flared
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-05-02T10:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/german-jobless-unexpectedly-up-in-april-as-crisis-flared.html
German unemployment  unexpectedly rose
in April as the debt crisis in the euro area constrained growth
and hiring in  Europe ’s biggest economy.  The number of people out of work increased a seasonally
adjusted 19,000 to 2.87 million, the Federal Labor Agency in
Nuremberg said today. Economists forecast a decline of 10,000,
the median of 34 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  shows. The
adjusted  jobless rate  was unchanged at 6.8 percent, still a two-
decade low, after the agency revised up figures for February and
March.  “The labor market has entered a period of stabilization at
a high level,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group
in Brussels. While “the economic tailwind from the last two
years is clearly fading away,” it is “not yet a cause for
concern” and so far underscores that the labor market is an
indicator that lags behind economic developments.  German unemployment has been the biggest advertisement for
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s prescription to quell the debt crisis
with budget cuts and labor-market changes as part of an economic
overhaul. Separate European figures published by the Luxembourg-
based statistics agency Eurostat today showed euro-region
unemployment rose to 10.9 percent in March, the highest in
almost 15 years and almost double Germany’s rate of 5.6 percent.  Even so, following the German labor agency revisions,
joblessness has now increased in three of the past seven months
after declining for 27 straight months.  The euro extended its decline after the jobless data were
published, weakening for a third day against the dollar. It was
down 0.6 percent at $1.3154 as of 12:40 p.m. in Berlin.  ‘Hanging On’  The labor agency ascribed the rise in part to accounting
changes as a result of the day of the unemployment count falling
within the Easter vacation. It also said that companies were
bracing for the crisis to have an impact.  “What we’re noticing is that companies are hesitant to
take that very last step in their hiring intentions,” Raimund Becker, one of three agency board members, told reporters in
Nuremberg. “They want to hire but are hanging on and that’s
being caused by the crisis. The uncertainty is there.”  Declining unemployment has until now helped gird the German
economy against the crisis by bolstering household spending as
export growth slows. Exports will climb 3 percent this year
compared with 8.2 percent last year as demand in primary
European markets wanes, the government forecast on April 25.  Manufacturing Slump  Euro-area manufacturing shrank for a ninth month in April
and more than initially estimated, a separate report showed
today, adding to signs the economic slump is worsening.  The German economy will expand 0.7 percent this year after
3 percent in 2011, the  Economy Ministry  said last week, keeping
its forecast from January intact. The economy of the 17-nation
currency area will contract 0.3 percent, according to European
Commission forecasts. Germany sells 40 percent of its exports in
the euro region and 60 percent to the European Union as a whole.  “Consolidation and bold structural reforms in the labor
market pay off,” Economy Minister Philipp Roesler said April 25.
“This is an important message to our partners in Europe.”  German business and investor confidence indicators have
meanwhile beaten forecasts every month this year. The Ifo
business confidence gauge rose to a 9-month high in April and an
investor confidence index published by the ZEW Center for
European Economic Research rose for a fifth straight month.  Production in  Germany ’s electrical sector may expand 5
percent this year, outpacing pre-crisis levels of growth in 2007
and 2008, the ZVEI industry lobby group said on April 23.  China 
will import about 12 billion euros ($15.9 billion) of goods this
year from ZVEI members, the group said.  New Jobs  German companies from builders to information technology
firms aim to boost hiring. Germany’s ZDB building trades group
will create about 16,000 construction jobs this year as orders
rise, the group forecast on April 25. IT federation BITKOM said
on April 4 that demand for technology linked to smart phones,
tablets and cloud computing will help create 6,000 new jobs in
Germany in 2012.  Demand from the U.S. and China will lead to  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Audi unit creating about 2,000 jobs this year at its Ingolstadt
and Neckarsulm plants, the company said on April 9. That’s 800
jobs more than previously announced.  Moderate wage claims that helped the economy climb out of
recession in 2009 are being abandoned in sectors from banks to
engineering and public services, helping support private
consumption. The Ver.di union won a 6.5 percent wage increase
last month for about 2 million public-sector workers. The raise
matches the wage demand of  IG Metall , Europe’s biggest union.  Rising wages “could increase private consumption, which
would help the employment market,” Frank-Juergen Weise, labor
agency chief, said in Nuremberg.  While the unemployment data showed a “set-back” in April,
“we believe that the overall positive employment trend in
Germany is still intact,” said Constantin Wirschke, a
Frankfurt-based economist at Natixis. “We continue to expect
improvement throughout the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  