-- German Stocks Retreat a Second Day as Unemployment Rises
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-05-02T16:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/german-stocks-rise-on-u-s-china-manufacturing-reports.html
German stocks  dropped for a second day
as an unexpected increase in unemployment in  Europe ’s largest
economy outweighed reports showing manufacturing expanded in the
U.S. and  China .  Deutsche Bank AG and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  each fell at least 2.5
percent as southern European bonds dropped.  MAN SE (MAN)  and  BASF SE (BAS) 
also declined.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  rose after analysts
recommended buying its shares.  The benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index declined 0.8 percent to 6,710.77 at
the close in  Frankfurt , erasing an earlier rally of as much as
1.7 percent. The benchmark measure was closed yesterday for the
May Day public holiday. The DAX has still  gained 14 percent this
year  as investors speculated that companies in  Germany  will fare
better than those in the euro area’s most indebted nations. The
broader HDAX Index slipped 0.6 percent today.  “Some of the recent reports show Germany is now slowing
probably in reaction to the slowdown in Europe,” said  Neil Dwane , chief investment officer for Europe at RCM Ltd., in a
phone interview.  German unemployment unexpectedly rose in April. The number
of people out of work increased a seasonally adjusted 19,000 to
2.87 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency said
today. Economists had forecast a decline of 10,000, the median
of 34 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. The adjusted
 jobless rate  was 6.8 percent.  A gauge of Chinese manufacturing from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics rose in April. A separate release yesterday
from China’s statistics bureau and logistics federation
indicated that  industry  expanded at the fastest pace in a year.
 Manufacturing in the U.S.  grew in April at the fastest rate in
almost a year, a release from the  Institute for Supply
Management  showed yesterday.  Deutsche Bank Slides  Deutsche Bank,  Germany’s biggest lender , dropped 2.5
percent to 32.06 euros. Commerzbank slipped 2.5 percent to 1.60
euros. The yield on German two-, five-, 10-, and 30-year
securities fell to record lows as concern resurfaced that some
European nations will struggle to finance their debt at elevated
borrowing costs. Spanish and Italian 10-year yields rose.  Portugal sold 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) of bills in an
auction today with investors demanding higher  interest rates  to
purchase the debt.  MAN, the German truckmaker  controlled by Volkswagen AG ,
slid 2.1 percent to 93.46 euros. BASF, the world’s largest
chemical maker, declined 1.4 percent to 61.31 euros.  HeidelbergCement,  Europe’s third-largest cement maker , rose
2.5 percent to 42.58 euros. Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
reiterated an outperform, or buy, recommendation on the shares
before  the company  reports its results tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  