-- Gingrich Concludes ‘Wild Ride’ Quest for Nomination
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-05-03T17:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/gingrich-officially-concludes-wild-ride-presidential-campaign.html
Newt Gingrich  ended his self-described
“wild ride” presidential bid yesterday and called presumptive
Republican nominee Mitt Romney, who he previously dismissed as a
“Massachusetts moderate,” a clear conservative alternative to
President  Barack Obama .  Gingrich aides had said last week he would be concluding
his candidacy, and he has been in talks with Romney’s campaign
about an endorsement of the former Massachusetts governor. While
stopping short of such formal backing yesterday, he left no
doubt he wants Romney to defeat Obama.  “I’m asked sometimes, ‘Is Mitt Romney conservative
enough?’ And my answer’s simple: ‘Compared to Barack Obama?’”
Gingrich said in a hotel ballroom in Arlington, Virginia. “You
know, this is not a choice between  Mitt Romney  and  Ronald Reagan . This is a choice between Mitt Romney and the most
radical, leftist president in American history.”  The former U.S. House speaker also pledged to stay
involved in energy, education, religious liberty and defense
issues, among others.  “Today I’m suspending the campaign, but suspending the
campaign does not mean suspending citizenship,” Gingrich said.  Romney’s campaign and the Republican National Committee,
which is in the process of melding its operations with the
presumptive nominee’s, plan to aid Gingrich as he seeks to pay
down the $4.3 million in campaign debt he reported in a March 31
Federal Election Commission filing.  Bachmann’s Backing  Another one-time Romney rival, Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , provided her backing today. In a
statement, she praised Romney as “a man who will preserve the
American dream of prosperity and liberty.”  Bachmann left the race after a sixth-place finish in the
Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses that began the nomination voting.  Romney, 65, praised Gingrich, 68, following his exit
speech, saying he “has brought creativity and intellectual
vitality to American political life.”  “Although he long ago created an enduring place for
himself in American history, I am confident that he will
continue to make important contributions to our party and to the
life of the nation,” Romney said in a statement.  After a brief campaign stop yesterday in Chantilly,
Virginia, Romney met with  Republican National Committee  Chairman
Reince Priebus to discuss general election efforts.  Staff Departures  Gingrich’s announcement concluded a quest filled with ups
and downs. Many -- including some of his closest advisers --
thought it was dead last June, when aides staged a mass exodus
from the cash-strapped operation amid complaints of dysfunction
and lack of focus by the candidate.  Instead, Gingrich went on to surge in polls late last year,
partly on the strength of fiery performances in debates in which
he questioned Romney’s commitment to conservative causes and
offered himself as the Republican best equipped to take on
Obama.  A barrage of negative ads, largely from the Romney camp,
caused him to fall back into the pack and he finished fourth in
 Iowa . Still, he picked up another wave of momentum that carried
him to victory in  South Carolina ’s Jan. 21 primary.  With new focus trained on his personal life, including the
extramarital affair that ended his second marriage and gave rise
to his third, his campaign fizzled when he ran far behind Romney
in  Florida ’s Jan. 31 primary. The campaign in that state also
featured an onslaught of ads targeting him that were financed by
the super-Political Action Committee backing Romney.  Georgia Win  Gingrich won only one other primary -- on March 6 in
 Georgia , which he represented in the House for 20 years -- as
former Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania  emerged as Romney’s
main challenger.  After poor showings in five primaries on April 24,
including a second-place finish to Romney in  Delaware , where
Gingrich had staked his campaign, his aides the next day said he
would suspend his bid.  In his exit speech, Gingrich alluded indirectly to the role
of pro-Romney forces in pummeling him when he thanked Linda Upmeyer, an Iowa legislator, for backing him during the “wave
of advertising” that blunted his efforts in that state.  He also singled out for thanks billionaire casino executive
 Sheldon Adelson  and his wife, who gave $20 million to a super-
PAC supporting Gingrich’s candidacy. And he expressed his
appreciation to staff members who “stuck with me” through his
rises and falls.  “I could never have predicted either the low points or the
high points” of the campaign, he said.  Republican Revolution  The campaign’s roller coaster quality was fitting for
Gingrich, whose career has been marked by spectacular successes
followed by political implosions and rebirths. He helped
engineer the 1994 political wave known as the Republican
revolution that handed the party its first House majority in
four decades. Four years later he relinquished the speakership
and resigned his House seat amid discontent with him among House
Republican members.  Gingrich cast himself as a visionary in seeking the
presidency, and he continued to do so as he ended his campaign.
He promoted his call for colonizing the moon -- a plan rivals in
the Republican race scoffed at as a waste of federal funds.  Gingrich acknowledged yesterday that his wife, Callista,
joined the critics of his moon proposal, as he made fun of it
even while insisting on the validity of his arguments.  “My wife has pointed out to me approximately 219 times,
give or take three, that ‘Moon colony’ was probably not my most
clever comment in this campaign,” Gingrich said. “I thought,
frankly, in my role as providing material for ‘Saturday Night
Live,’ it was helpful, but the underlying, key point is real:
The fact is, if we’re going to be the leading country in the
world, we have to be the leading country in space.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Arlington,  Virginia  at  
1890 or  Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 