-- Gleacher Hires Arturi, Ullmann to Co-Head Unit Including MBS
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-05-02T15:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/gleacher-hires-arturi-ullmann-to-co-head-unit-that-includes-mbs.html
Gleacher & Co. (GLCH) , the company that
expanded in 2009 by buying a boutique advisory founded by Eric Gleacher, hired Perrin Arturi and Donald Ullmann to co-head its
broker-dealer unit’s division for mortgage- and asset-backed
bonds and so-called rates products such as Treasuries.  Arturi and Ullmann are joining the New York-based company
as executive managing directors, Gleacher said today in a
statement distributed by  Business Wire .  “In bringing in Perrin and Don, we’ve gotten two seasoned
professionals,” Chief Executive Officer Thomas Hughes said in a
telephone interview. “One is very deep in trading knowledge and
in  managing risk . The other is someone who has been client-
facing his entire career and knows how to help them add value.”  Arturi, who was previously a managing director at Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc, spent 19 years at Bear Stearns Cos.,
including as its head trader of mortgage pass-through
securities, according to the statement. He held a similar role
at UBS AG before joining RBS.  Ullmann most recently was the head of fixed-income trading
and co-head of fixed-income sales at  Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
Inc. (KBW) , where he worked for eight years. He spent 14 years at
Merrill Lynch & Co., including as head of mortgage-backed
securities sales and research, and chief operating officer for
global securities research and economics, according to the
statement.  Departing Executives  Gleacher had said last month that Robert Fine, the previous
head of the division they will lead, and Robert Tirschwell, the
group’s trading head, would leave the company. The two joined
the firm in 2004 after leading Descap Securities Inc., which was
bought by Gleacher, known at the time as First Albany Cos.  Gleacher, then known as Broadpoint Securities Group Inc.,
bought Gleacher Partners Inc. in 2009.Eric Gleacher, the
company’s current chairman, founded Gleacher Partners in 1990
after stints heading mergers and acquisitions at Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and Morgan Stanley.  The mortgage-trading business is an “area that has been
historically very important for our company, and it continues to
be,” Hughes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  