-- Global Regulators Nearing Deal on Margin Rules, Gensler Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-05-02T18:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/global-regulators-nearing-deal-on-margin-rules-gensler-says.html
Global regulators are nearing
consensus on collateral standards in swaps rules that may allow
the U.S. to eventually defer to oversight by other countries,
said Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler .  European and U.S. regulators are working to complete common
collateral standards that would apply to direct swaps between
buyers and sellers in an effort to prevent traders from
exploiting differences in regulations, Gensler said at the
 International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. ’s annual
meeting in  Chicago .  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and other U.S. banks have told regulators that differences
could hurt their ability to compete with overseas rivals.  “I think it’s achievable that we’ll be on the same page
down to the granular level,” said Gensler, who met with
regulators from nine jurisdictions on global swaps rules
yesterday in Toronto. Standards for collateral, are the most
important to set to reduce regulatory arbitrage possibilities,
he said.  The CFTC is required under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act to write
rules for the swaps market after largely unregulated trades
helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The law seeks to reduce risk
and increase transparency by having most swaps guaranteed by
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other platforms.  The CFTC plans to propose guidelines that would allow
substituted compliance in overseas jurisdictions to account for
the aims of Dodd-Frank, Gensler said.  If an overseas jurisdiction doesn’t have a comparable
regulation, the CFTC wouldn’t allow substituted compliance,
Gensler said. “If your question is, ‘Can two U.S. parties go to
some jurisdiction that doesn’t have an execution requirement to
skirt around the law,’ then the answer would be no -- until you
find good lawyers to skirt around it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  