-- GM Needs Europe Fix as Opel Losses Undercut U.S. Recovery
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-05-02T20:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/gm-needs-europe-fix-as-opel-losses-undercut-u-s-recovery.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  will probably
report that losses in  Europe  for the first quarter led to a
decline in profit, raising pressure to find a solution for the
unit that is undercutting the company’s U.S. recovery.  GM, the world’s largest automaker, would report its ninth-
straight profitable quarter tomorrow since emerging from
bankruptcy in 2009. The Detroit-based company may say profit
excluding some items fell to 85 cents a share, the average of 16
 analysts surveyed  by Bloomberg, from 95 cents a year earlier.  The first-quarter results may resemble  Ford Motor Co.’s (F) 
profit, which fell 45 percent to $1.4 billion as rising North
America income was diminished by losses in Europe. Slowing
growth in China and increasing competition in  South America  are
exacerbating both companies’ reliance on their home continent.  “I’m biased by what happened at Ford,” David Whiston, an
analyst with  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago , said this week in a
telephone interview. “The question is: Will it be a repeat of a
very healthy North American business and then a very weak
international business?”  Europe has been a persistent problem for GM. After the
board decided not to sell its German-based Opel unit, losses
have continued and deepened. The European operations were on
target to break even last year until November when the company
said those plans were off track as the economy worsened.  Dan Akerson, GM chief executive officer, is trying to fix
operations in Europe after losing $747 million before interest
and taxes in the region last year and $15.6 billion since 1999.
The average of four analysts’ estimates for this year is a $1.2
billion deficit.  Peugeot, Opel  In February, GM announced an agreement to acquire 7 percent
of  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  as part of an alliance that includes
purchasing and vehicle development as part of an effort to
revitalize its European operations. That effort is separate from
fixing Opel, which the company said would take a couple of
months.  Executives have rolled back that timetable.  “We’re in dialogue with all of the constituencies and it’s
multinational, given our footprint in Europe,” Akerson told
reporters in Beijing last week. “We hope within the next couple
of months to be able to speak more specifically about the
details of a plan going forward.”  In the January-to-March quarter, GM’s car sales fell 12
percent to 271,711 in the 27-member European Union plus
 Switzerland , Norway and Iceland while the total market declined
7.3 percent, according to the Brussels-based European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association.  Europe Bottoming  “I don’t want to lead anybody to believe there’s any
bright spots in Europe right now, although I will say it does
look like things appear to be bottoming,” Steve Girsky, GM vice
chairman, told analysts in April. “They are bad, the
comparisons are bad, we’re not sure they’re getting any
incrementally worse.”  Brian Johnson , an industry analyst with  Barclays Capital ,
estimates that GM’s Europe loss will be $390 million while
Joseph Spak, an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets , predicts an
operating loss of $339 million.  “The only positive thing coming out of Ford’s comments on
Europe is pricing seems to have been not as bad as it could’ve
been,” Johnson said. “Which could maybe support that we’ve hit
a bottom.”  GM also probably continued to lose money in the quarter in
South America, where the company is investing to introduce new
products this year, Johnson said.  The region “should be in the black this year,” Girsky
said.  North American Profit  European and South American losses will probably be
countered by North America results, which include improving U.S.
sales results. GM may generate $1.68 billion in operating profit
from its home continent, Johnson said.  GM’s U.S. vehicle sales rose 2.7 percent in the quarter
while spending 11 percent less on incentives per vehicle,
according to researcher Autodata Corp. Market share fell as
Akerson has emphasized profit margin over unit volumes.  “When you can increase sales while lowering incentives,
everything else being equal, it should equate to higher
earnings,”  Jesse Toprak , an industry analyst with TrueCar.com,
a website that tracks auto sales. “Especially in January and
February of last year, GM had some unusually high incentives.”  China Confidence  Global revenue may rise 4.5 percent to $37.8 billion, the
average of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, fueled by
increasing sales in  China  and the U.S., where deliveries of the
Chevrolet Malibu and Cruze sedans increased.  GM’s vehicle sales in China rose in the first quarter 8.7
percent to 745,152, including joint ventures. Akerson last week
announced GM plans to open 600 new dealerships in China this
year and that the automaker plans to introduce one new Cadillac
model in the country every year through 2016.  “We strongly believe in the fundamentals in this market,”
Akerson said last week following the Beijing auto show. “If you
didn’t have confidence in the future of this country and its
growth potential, you might have feet of clay. We don’t.”  GM shares, while rising 13 percent this year, remain below
the $33 level of the company’s 2010 initial public offering. The
U.S. Treasury Department sold 28 percent of GM in the IPO, and
it still  holds 32 percent  of the common stock, acquired as part
of the Obama administration’s $50 billion bailout. The U.S.
wants to sell for at least the IPO price, people familiar with
the matter have said.  GM fell 1.6 percent to $22.93 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  