-- Goldman Sachs Said to Sell CMBS Tied to Hawaiian Shopping Mall
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-05-02T20:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/goldman-sachs-said-to-sell-cmbs-tied-to-hawaiian-shopping-mall.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. sold $1.4
billion of bonds backed by debt on a Hawaiian mall, according to
a person familiar with the offering.  A $1 billion slice carrying top grades and maturing in 9.91
years yields 135 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the terms
aren’t public. A portion rated Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service, the lowest investment-grade ranking, yields 260 basis
points more than the benchmark.  The deal is composed of a single loan on a 2.42 million
square-foot property in Honolulu,  Hawaii , according to
Morningstar Inc. The mortgaged parcel consists primarily of the
Ala Moana Center, an open-air mall anchored by stores including
Macy’s and  Neiman Marcus , Morningstar said in a report earlier
this month.  Wall Street banks have arranged about $8 billion in deals
backed primarily by shopping malls, office buildings and hotels
in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Banks issued
$28 billion in 2011. Sales are forecast to climb as high as $45
billion this year, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  The market for bonds tied to everything from skyscrapers to
strip malls was roiled this month by the auction of $7.5 billion
in commercial real estate debt assumed by the Federal  Reserve
Bank  of  New York  in the rescue of American International Group
Inc.  Relative yields on benchmark securities narrowed by as much
as 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 225 basis
points over the swap rate last week after the district bank
completed the sale, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 