-- Gold Standard for All, From Nuts to Paul Krugman
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-05-02T23:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/gold-standard-for-all-from-nuts-to-paul-krugman.html
Nut cases. That’s what they are. And
if you take an interest in them, you are a nut case, too.  That’s the consensus among credentialed economists who
describe advocates of a return to the monetary regime known as
the  gold standard . In fact, the economic pack will marginalize
you as a weirdo faster than you can say  “Jacques Rueff,”  if
you even raise the topic of monetary policy in relation to gold.  An example of such marginalizing appears in a recent issue
of the Atlantic magazine. Author Adam Ozimek  lists  four rules
upon which economists overwhelmingly agree. Right away, that
puts readers on guard; they don’t want to be the only one to
disagree with eminences.  The first rule Ozimek offers is that free trade benefits
economies. So obvious. That makes the penalty for disagreement
higher. Then you read down to the final principle: “The gold
standard is a terrible idea.” By putting the proposition in
such strong terms, the author raises the penalty for
disagreeing. If you don’t subscribe to this view, you risk both
being classed as the kind of genuine nut case who believes in
protectionism, and enduring the disdain of other economists --
“all economists,” as the Atlantic headline writer summarized
it.  But “all economists” is not the same as “all
economies.” The record of gold’s performance in all economies
over the past century is not all “terrible.” Especially not in
relation to areas that concern us today: growth, inflation or
the frequency of bank crises. The problem here may lie not with
the gold bugs but with those who work so hard to isolate them.  Gold’s Real Record  Conveniently enough, the gold record happens to have been
assembled recently by a highly credentialed team at the  Bank of
England . In a December 2011  bank report , the authors Oliver
Bush, Katie Farrant and Michelle Wright review three eras: the
period of a traditional gold standard (1870-1913); the period of
a gold-standard variant, the  Bretton Woods  gold-exchange
standard (1948 to 1972); and a period of flexible exchange rates
(1972-2008).  The report then looks at annual real growth per capita
worldwide, over many nations. Such growth, they find, was
stronger in the recent non-gold-standard modern period,
averaging an annual increase of 1.8 percent per capita, than in
the classical gold-standard period before 1913, when real per-
capita gross domestic product increased 1.3 percent annually.
Give a point to the gold disdainers.  But the authors also find that in the gold exchange
standard years of 1948 to 1972 the world averaged annual per-
capita growth of 2.8 percent, higher than the recent gold-free
era. The gold exchange standard is a variant of the gold
standard. That outcome doesn’t tell you we must go back to the
gold exchange standard yesterday. But it does suggest that
figuring out how the standard worked might prove a worthy, or at
least not a ridiculous, endeavor.  Gold shone in other ways. In a gold-standard regime, money
is backed by gold, so it’s impossible, or at least more
difficult, for governments to inflate. Naturally the gold
standard and Bretton Woods years therefore enjoyed lower rates
of inflation compared with the most recent era. The gold
standard endures a reputation for causing more banking crises
than other monetary regimes. The  Bank of England  paper suggests
gold stabilizes banks: The incidence of banking crises in the
non-gold-standard period is higher than the incidence in the two
gold periods.  “Overall the gold standard appeared to perform reasonably
well against its financial stability and allocative efficiency
objectives,” wrote  Bush , Farrant and Wright.  Stable Markets  Markets and countries enjoyed relative stability in gold-
standard years, and capital in those years flowed to worthy
growth-generating projects. The main sacrifice in gold regimes
that the authors identify is that governments lose authority to
micromanage domestic economies. But given governments’ records,
that may not be such a bad thing, either.  It all suggests that contempt for old gold hands such as
Congressman  Ron Paul  of  Texas  might not be warranted. And that
it might be interesting to peruse the numerous gold-related
currency plans outside the door of the academic salon. Plenty of
people, many former bankers, think it is time to pass laws
returning the U.S. to some version, strong or weak, of the gold
standard.  Lewis Lehrman, financier and founder of the Gilder-Lehrman
Institute, which focuses on history, recently  published a plan 
to take the world back to gold, “The True Gold Standard.”
Charles Kadlec, another former Wall Streeter,  co-wrote  his own
proposal, “The 21st Century Gold Standard,” with Ralph Benko.
The case for gold as a mandatory metric for the  Federal Reserve 
in setting  interest rates  is made in new legislation offered by
Congressman  Kevin Brady , another Republican from Texas. Dozens
of state legislatures are introducing their own gold- or
silver-related currency legislation.  One reason people slap the nut-case label on others with
impunity is that for the past 30 or 40 years most economic
education has systematically excluded the gold standard and its
exponents from the classroom. It’s easy to call something your
professors never respected the work of a nut case. But it’s also
worthwhile to ask why the professors white out the gold standard
from the books. Perhaps it is because the systems they raved
about in their dissertations, systems of flexible exchange
rates, subsequently underperformed.  This inconsistency in their own modeling is of course hard
to acknowledge. Recently Bloomberg Television drew enormous
attention when co-anchor  Trish Regan  moderated a  debate  between
Ron Paul and  Paul Krugman , the Nobel prize-winning  New York 
Times columnist.  Krugman’s Nostalgia  Krugman sought to hold the middle ground, noting that all
he sought, through his recommendation that federal debt rise to
130 percent of gross domestic product, was a return to the kind
of America in which his parents lived. The professor treated the
congressman’s remarks as unscholarly; in a blog post afterward,
Krugman  wrote  “everything Paul said about growth after World
War II was wrong.”  But Krugman too has some sorting through to do. The years
when his parents lived were gold years, the Bretton Woods gold
exchange standard, a time when the federal government, except in
world war, would never had considered raising debt to 130
percent of the economy, as Krugman suggested in the debate.  If we are going to speak of consensus, let’s not forget one
that is truly universal: Our economic system stands a good
chance of breakdown in coming years. The only way to limit
damage from such a breakdown is to ready ourselves to choose
other models by learning about them now.  Not to do so would be nuts.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on what’s missing from the
 U.S.-Afghanistan pact  and better ways to  fix the farm bill ;  Ezra
Klein  on how  the U.S. isn’t like Greece ;  Caroline Baum  on
lack of  alternatives to austerity ; Ray Ball on  pitfalls of
mark-to-market accounting ; Josh Barro on  new arguments for a 
U.S. value-added tax .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 