-- Goldman Sachs Finds More Unwanted Publicity in Gupta Case
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-05-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/goldman-sachs-finds-more-unwanted-publicity-in-gupta-case.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , just months
after being assailed by an ex-employee for harboring a “toxic”
culture, faces a harsh spotlight this month in Manhattan federal
court over how well a senior official guarded its secrets.  Rajat Gupta, a former Goldman Sachs director, goes on trial
May 21 on charges of giving inside information to Raj Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group LLC co-founder serving 11 years in
prison for  insider trading . Gupta’s lawyers said they may 
point to others at the bank who passed Rajaratnam illegal tips.
At least three other Goldman Sachs employees are said to be
under investigation related to Galleon insider trading.  The renewed scrutiny of Goldman Sachs comes after the firm
endured a wave of publicity that drove down its stock price in
the short term. Most recently, former derivatives trader  Greg Smith  in a March  New York  Times opinion piece criticized the
company’s treatment of clients. Goldman Sachs’s market value
fell $2.15 billion the day it was published.  Earlier this year, a Delaware judge criticized the New
York-based company’s handling of El Paso Corp.’s takeover by
 Kinder Morgan (KMI)  Inc. In 2010, U.S. Senator Carl Levin called
hearings on the financial industry, and the bank settled a
Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit for $550 million.  “It’s almost more like the Chinese water torture,” said
William D. Cohan, author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs
Came to Rule the World.” “There’s a cumulative effect -- not
only this trial and this incident but what the judge in the
Delaware Chancery Court wrote about El Paso-Kinder Morgan,
Senator Levin’s all-day hearing, the SEC lawsuit, the relentless
pounding in the media, the Greg Smith thing.”  Won’t Suffer  Goldman Sachs’s revenue may not suffer, because clients
will continue to turn to the New York-based company, Cohan, a
Bloomberg View columnist, said in a telephone interview. The
bank has outperformed the S&P Financials Sector Index this year.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, the fifth-
largest U.S. bank by assets, declined to comment on how it will
handle publicity from a monthlong Gupta trial.  Since Levin, a Michigan Democrat, alleged in 2010 that the
firm put its own interests ahead of clients’, Goldman Sachs has
come under persistent criticism.  In July 2010, Goldman Sachs agreed to pay $550 million to
resolve SEC allegations that it misled investors in
collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages by
not disclosing that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped pick the
underlying securities and then bet against them. Goldman Sachs 
didn’t admit wrongdoing. Fabrice Tourre, a Goldman Sachs trader 
who was also sued in the case, is fighting the SEC’s allegations.  Chancery Court  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine rebuked Goldman
Sachs in February for advising  El Paso (EP)  after Kinder Morgan, in
which it held a $4 billion stake, bid for the company. The
judge, who questioned the bank’s handling of an alleged conflict
of interest, didn’t block the deal, which is expected to close
in the second quarter.  Smith quit in March after writing an opinion piece in the
New York Times describing a “toxic and destructive” culture, a
claim Goldman Sachs denies. The  shares  fell 3.4 percent in New
York trading after the article ran.  In an April 25 interview with Bloomberg Television, Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  addressed the damage the
company’s reputation has sustained in recent years.  “Shame on us,” Blankfein said, for “not anticipating”
how the public would perceive the firm after the financial
crisis.  ‘How Important’  “We’re going to have to do a better job -- we’re going to
have to do a job -- in getting out there in telling people how
important this industry is and what it does when we advise
companies on their growth plans, when we help finance those
growth plans, when we manage their assets for them, and how
important this is for the economy, the markets and obviously
society at large,” Blankfein told Bloomberg TV’s  Erik Schatzker 
on “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.”  Gupta’s trial will be first in a nationwide crackdown on
insider trading that started with Rajaratnam’s case in 2009 to
focus squarely on Goldman Sachs. Gupta is accused of tipping
Rajaratnam, his one-time friend and business partner, about the
bank and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta also served as a
director. Gupta ran consulting firm McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to
2003 and was on the Goldman Sachs board from 2006 to 2010.  ‘Illicit Profits’  Tips included details of Goldman Sachs’s earnings in the
first quarter of 2007 and fourth quarter of 2008, as well as the
$5 billion investment in the bank by  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  in
September 2008, prosecutors said. The leaks generated “illicit
profits and loss avoidance” of more than $23 million, the SEC
alleged in a related lawsuit. Gupta, who denies wrongdoing,
faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of  securities
fraud  and conspiracy.  Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said
there’s “no evidence whatsoever” that Goldman Sachs’s
investment banking franchise is at risk from the Gupta case. At
the same time, clients will be watching to see who might have
breached a duty to the firm by leaking confidential information.  “So long as this does not come from senior people --
managing directors and above -- the damage is manageable,”
Hintz said in a telephone interview. “If it comes above that,
then you end up with a reputational damage that can affect a
willingness of the clients to engage you.”  Executive Wiretap  Gary Naftalis , Gupta’s lawyer, has said in court that
prosecutors told him two other Goldman Sachs employees are
suspected of leaking tips about companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  Naftalis said one was an executive caught on a
wiretap talking to Rajaratnam. Without naming the person,
Naftalis said the defense may present evidence of the other
tippers at Gupta’s trial.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan, declined to comment on the case. Paul Fox,
a spokesman for Cincinnati-based Procter & Gamble, didn’t
immediately return calls for comment.  Bradley Simon , a former federal prosecutor now in private
practice in New York, said the disclosure of other possible
leakers is a “gift” to Gupta that Naftalis is sure to exploit.  “The government has to remove almost all doubt,” he said
in a telephone interview. “How do you know it wasn’t one of
these individuals instead of Gupta? It does pose a problem for
the government if the jury says, ‘We’re not totally sure.’ Then
they’re obligated to acquit.”  Under Investigation  Two other Goldman Sachs employees -- David Loeb, head of
Asia Equity Sales in New York and a managing director, and Henry King, a technology analyst in Hong Kong -- are under U.S.
investigation, according to people with knowledge of the probes
who weren’t authorized to speak publicly. It’s unclear if Loeb
or King are the employees referred to by Naftalis and in letters
prosecutors filed in court.  Loeb and King didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.
Goldman Sachs has declined to comment on Loeb and King.  A third employee, Matthew Korenberg, a managing director
based in San Francisco, has been the subject of a U.S. insider-
trading investigation for 2 1/2 years related to Galleon, said
his lawyer, John Hueston. Korenberg remained employed by Goldman
Sachs and has never been investigated for passing tips to
Rajaratnam, Hueston said in an April 26 interview.  Goldman Sachs has “fully cooperated” with federal
authorities for more than two years on the Korenberg probe, the
company said in an April 26 statement.  “The multiyear investigation that he has been involved
with has resulted in nothing,” Hueston said. “He has never
tipped any information. He was never alleged to have tipped any
inside information. He has had a distinguished career at Goldman
Sachs.”  May Benefit  Frank Razzano, a Pepper Hamilton LLP lawyer not involved in
any Galleon-related insider-trading cases, said Gupta’s defense
may benefit from multiple Goldman Sachs executives being
implicated in leaking information.  “It’s a very good case if you can come forward with
evidence to show that the government got the wrong person,”
said Razzano, who is among the few defense attorneys in the U.S.
to win a client’s acquittal in an insider-trading case.  Jurors are likely to hear from Goldman Sachs executives,
court papers indicate. Blankfein testified at Rajaratnam’s trial
last year that Gupta violated the firm’s confidentiality
policies by allegedly telling Rajaratnam about the firm’s
earnings and strategic plans.  ‘Relevant’ Information  In the SEC lawsuit, Gupta’s lawyers have said that
Blankfein, Chief Financial Officer David Viniar, President Gary Cohn, Loeb and retiring Lead Director  John Bryan  may have
information “relevant” to the defense. Another possible
witness is Goldman Sachs director Claes Dahlback, a former CEO
of Sweden’s Investor AB, who was interviewed by the government,
prosecutors told a judge in January.  Naftalis declined to comment on his possible witnesses.  Goldman Sachs’s relationship with Galleon may also come
into view. Gupta is alleged to have tipped Rajaratnam in 2007
after listening to a Goldman Sachs board meeting while at
Galleon’s offices. Jurors may hear that Goldman Sachs routinely
catered lunch for Galleon traders, as the bank did for other big
clients, according to an ex-Galleon employee who declined to
comment publicly.  Anthony Sabino , a lawyer and professor at the Peter J.
Tobin College of Business at St. John’s University in New York,
said the publicity will sting even if it doesn’t cost the firm
business.  “If you want to do a deal these days in the U.S., you go
to Goldman, you go to Morgan Stanley,” he said in a telephone
interview. “But when you have multiple instances, then people
may say it’s indicative of a lack of internal controls or a
permissiveness that lets this thing go on. It’s a slap in the
face to management.”  ‘Pickup Basketball’  Ronn Torossian, CEO of 5W Public Relations LLC in New York,
which has done work for  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , said
Goldman Sachs should move quickly to reclaim its reputation.  The company should stress to the public that recent events
involve just a few of its 32,000 employees and that it demands
that all employees act ethically, he said. Workers must be
“completely above-board,” he said, not even “cheating in
their pickup basketball games.”  “Any time you have a stellar firm like that and the words
‘insider trading’ next to it -- you start to wonder how long
does it go, how much more is there?” he said in a telephone
interview. “It’s hard to distance yourself from crisis.”  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-907, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 