-- Goldman’s Gary Cohn, Google’s Eric Schmidt for High Line
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-05-02T21:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/goldman-s-gary-cohn-google-s-eric-schmidt-for-high-line.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  President and
Chief Operating Officer  Gary Cohn  was in the hot seat last night
at the  Friends of the High Line  Spring Benefit, supporting the
park built on elevated railroad tracks along  Manhattan ’s far
West Side.  On stage to accept an award on behalf of the company, Cohn
was seated right behind the lectern. This meant that whenever
someone spoke, he, too, was captured on the giant projection
screens around the room, in his gray suit and pink tie with sea
horses on it.  While  Occupy Wall Street  protests were taking place across
the U.S. yesterday, Cohn managed to smile and look interested
through speeches by Sarah Jessica Parker and Darren Walker, an
officer at the  Ford Foundation  who spoke of the importance of
High Line programs for the 5,000 public-housing residents who
live next to the park.  Artist Jeff Koons talked about his expensive idea to
suspend a real, working train car vertically above the High
Line. He was in the right room to court a funder for the
project, with guests including Pershing Square Capital
Management founder  Bill Ackman  and  David Rockefeller , board
chairman of the Rockefeller Foundation.  Cohn, for his part, said Goldman and its people have given
more than $6 million to the High Line and more than $1 billion
to philanthropic initiatives in the past five years.  Pier 57 Menu  Most of the 1,000 guests gathered at Pier 57 talked through
the remarks, distracted by the succulents decorating the tables
courtesy of  Bronson van Wyck , and the family-style meal courtesy
of the caterer  Bite . Among the offerings were spiced fried
chicken with ginger watermelon skewers, shaved black kale with
hen-of-the-woods and slow-braised short ribs. Parker House rolls
and pats of butter seasoned with thyme and sea salt accompanied.  Another diversion was the people-spotting: film director
Spike Lee, actor Ed Norton and  New York City Planning Commission 
Chairwoman Amanda Burden were all present.  Later, Cohn and Koons sat together at the head table with
 Google (GOOG)  Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt , whose date was his
daughter Sophie, and former chairman and chief executive of
Morgan Stanley,  John Mack , whose companions were his children
Jenna and Stephen.  Cohn said his favorite conversation of the night was with
 Barry Diller , chairman and senior executive of
 IAC/InterActiveCorp. (IACI)   “We talked about the world and the regulatory
environment,” he said as the party wound down, around 11 p.m.  The benefit raised more than $3 million. The party favor
was an umbrella with a rendering of the “Train” project by
Koons.  Playing Safe  An umbrella was also the giveaway at today’s  Central Park
Conservancy  benefit, where the total raised was $3.5 million and
one corporate sponsor of note was JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Mary Erdoes, chief executive, J.P. Morgan Asset Management,
announced the firm’s $3 million donation to “Central Play,”
the conservancy’s campaign to renovate Central Park playgrounds.  So far the conservancy has renovated five playgrounds for
safety, accessibility, sustainability and fun, said the park’s
chief administrator, Douglas Blonsky. The work at 16 other
playgrounds will take place over the next seven years and cost
about $30 million, he added.  The luncheon under a tent in the park’s Conservatory Garden
was a fashion playground for 1,200 guests. Erdoes wore a gray
Roland Mouret dress and Abigail Aldridge hat purchased at the
Hat Shop on  New York ’s Thompson Street.  Albee’s Bark  Edward Albee  made his presence known last night at the  PEN
American Center ’s 90th anniversary gala.  “You’re going on too long!” the author of “Who’s Afraid
of Virginia Woolf?” barked at fellow playwright Tony Kushner
under the blue whale at the  American Museum of Natural History .  At the podium, Albee accepted the PEN Literary Service
Award and recounted his youthful misadventures as poet, novelist
and short-story writer. He also improvised a brief interview
with a tyro reporter, playing both roles, before praising PEN
for championing freedom of expression for writers, editors and
publishers around the world.  The value of PEN was made clear by the others honored.  Imprisoned Publisher  The 2012 Jeri Laber International Freedom to Publish Award
went to  Turkey ’s Ragip Zarakolu, whose Belge Publishing House
has translated and published Turkish editions of works by
Armenian, Greek and Kurdish writers on such subjects as the
Armenian genocide and the repression of the Kurdish minority.  His children Seref and Zerrin Holle accepted the award.
Zarakolu is in prison for allegedly endorsing terrorism.  Eskinder Nega, a jailed Ethiopian journalist and blogger on
trial for terrorism, received the PEN/Barbara Goldsmith Freedom
to Write Award. He is being held in Maekelawi Prison in  Addis
Ababa , and may face the death penalty if convicted.  His wife, Serkalem Fasil, traveled to New York to accept
the award on her husband’s behalf.  “Prison has been Eskinder’s home away from home for the
past two decades,” she told the audience.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include:  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on
architecture,  James Pressley  on “What Money Can’t Buy,” and
 Jeremy Gerard  on Broadway.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 