-- Greenpeace Says Pilot Shows Security Weakness at EDF Reactor
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-05-02T15:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/greenpeace-says-pilot-exposes-security-breach-at-reactor-1-.html
Greenpeace said one of its activists
landed inside a French nuclear plant using a powered paraglider
to highlight the risk of an aerial attack, four days before an
election in which the two candidates disagree on atomic policy.  The incursion into  Electricite de France SA ’s Bugey site
“demonstrates the vulnerability of nuclear installations to a
threat of an air attack,” Greenpeace said today in a statement.
The pilot threw a smoke bomb onto one of the reactors, it said.  The action comes before the only televised debate later
today between President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and  Francois Hollande ,
the Socialist frontrunner in presidential elections. Sarkozy has
said he plans to increase investment in atomic energy, while his
rival has pledged to reduce French dependence on nuclear power.
The two candidates are campaigning for a May 6 runoff vote.  Greenpeace and EDF have been at odds for years over French
power, more than three-quarters of which is nuclear. Safety has
received more scrutiny after  Japan ’s Fukushima atomic disaster.  “Safety at the installation was never called into
question,” Dominique Miniere, director of French nuclear
production, told reporters today. “What is clear is that safety
measures put in place at the end of 2011 allowed the detection
and immediate arrest of the intruder. The whole thing was over
in less than 10 minutes.”  Pilot Caught  Greenpeace campaigners broke into two EDF nuclear plants in
France last year to demonstrate security lapses. That led the
government to order an overhaul at EDF’s 19 power-generating
plants in France. The campaigners’ breaches were their most
spectacular, after years of hopping fences, climbing up reactor
ladders and unfurling anti-nuclear banners from rooftops.  The pilot was caught minutes after nearly crash-landing,
Miniere said. EDF also confirmed reports that a man broke into
the Civaux plant today by passing through a truck entrance and
then hiding near a security gate. He was found by police after
being chased by security guards, according to a spokesman.  The intrusions came after EDF thwarted two attempts last
month by Greenpeace activists at two plants in northern  France .  No-fly zones are designated 10 kilometers (6 miles) around
and 1 kilometer above all of EDF’s atomic plants, Miniere said.
They are protected by the military and have been breached at
least 10 times in recent years by off course planes that were
later intercepted by the airforce.  The Bugey plant, near Lyon in the Rhone River valley, has
four 900-megawatt reactors and is protected by police and two
fences running around the perimeter, EDF’s  website  says.  Boost Security  The company will spend an extra 400 million euros ($526
million) to boost security with detector fences and more cameras
at all of its plants in the next 3 to 4 years, Miniere said.
That’s on top of 10s of millions of euros being spent each year
on measures such as tasers, barricades and guard dogs, he said.  Greenpeace has called on the nuclear safety watchdog to
include threats of air crashes in stress tests on reactors after
the Fukushima disaster in March 2011. The regulator refused,
saying it was responsible for safety at the sites, not security.  “EDF is able to deal with an  airplane crash  into a
reactor,” Miniere said. The consequences would be the same as
other scenarios such as core meltdowns, for which safety is
being bolstered, he said.  Greenpeace also made public  footage  from a flight it said
was carried out in November over  Areva SA (AREVA) ’s La Hague nuclear
reprocessing site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  