-- Green Mountain Trying to Improve K-Cup Sales Forecating
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-05-03T20:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/green-mountain-cuts-forecast-after-sales-trail-estimates.html
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) 
Chief Executive Officer Lawrence Blanford, whose company lost
almost half its market value after reporting second-quarter
revenue that trailed analysts’ estimates, said he’s working to
better forecast sales.  “We’re going to keep trying,” Blanford, 57, said in an
interview yesterday. Still, “I’m not sure we can call it
closer” while sales are growing so quickly.  Second-quarter  revenue  rose 37 percent to $885.1 million,
the Waterbury, Vermont-based company said yesterday in a
statement. That was the slowest quarterly sales growth in five
years and trailed analysts’ $971.7 million average estimate.  The shares  plunged  48 percent to $25.87 at the close in  New
York , the biggest drop since they began trading in September
1993.  Green Mountain  has lost 42 percent this year.  Some retailers don’t share K-Cup and brewer sales data for
competitive reasons, so that makes it harder to forecast,
Blanford said. Certain “customers won’t share that
information” with Green Mountain, he said, declining to name
specific stores.  “We still have a business here that is growing quite
nicely,” Blanford said. Green Mountain will “continue to
create  shareholder  value,” he said.  Profit Rises  Second-quarter  net income  rose 42 percent to $93 million,
or 58 cents a share, from $65.4 million, or 44 cents, a year
earlier. Excluding certain items, profit was 64 cents a share,
matching the average of 12 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Gross margin, the percentage of sales left after
subtracting the cost of goods sold, narrowed to 35.4 percent in
the quarter, from 37.5 percent a year ago, due partly to
“lower-than-expected” K-cup pack demand. Higher coffee costs
and efforts to reduce K-Cup inventories also hurt margin, Green
Mountain said.  Third-quarter earnings will be as much as 53 cents a share,
Green Mountain said. That compares with analysts’ average
estimate for profit of 71 cents yesterday.  For the full year, profit excluding some items will be as
much as $2.50 a share, down from an earlier forecast of as much
as $2.65. Analysts had projected $2.67 as of yesterday.  “You don’t expect them to miss like this,” Rick Munarriz,
a Miami-based analyst at the Motley Fool, said in an interview.
“It’s hard to find much of a silver lining in the report.”  Private-Label Competition  Green Mountain is seeing more competition from private-
label capsules that fit into Keurig machines and from  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX) , which in March said it will begin selling its own single-
serve brewer later this year. Blanford has introduced the Vue
coffee machine, which makes espresso-based drinks, to help
combat rivals when the main patents for its K-Cups expire in
September.  In February, Green Mountain introduced the Vue machine,
which makes lattes and cappuccinos and costs about $250.
Starbucks, which already sells K-Cups, will begin selling
single-serve cups for the Vue in specialty, department and mass
retail stores and online in the U.S. “by fall 2012,” Seattle-
based Starbucks and Green Mountain said in a statement in March.  Green Mountain is also working on an espresso machine with
Italian coffee company Luigi Lavazza SpA, which owned about 5
percent of Green Mountain as of Feb. 24, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The machine should start shipping in time
for the holiday season this year, Blanford said.  Green Mountain, which has been criticized by hedge fund
manager  David Einhorn  for its accounting practices and
transparency, said inventories more than doubled to $602.1
million in the quarter, from $300.8 million a year earlier.  In March, Einhorn said that the Starbucks Verismo brewer
“is part of the competitive onslaught hitting Green Mountain.”  Green Mountain also sells single-serve pods under the
Gloria Jean’s, Swiss Miss and  Caribou Coffee Co. (CBOU)  brands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  