-- Greeks Reveal Euro or No in First Election Since Downturn
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-05-02T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/greeks-reveal-euro-or-no-in-first-election-since-economy-shrank.html
Alexandra Paschia’s toddler runs among
the shoes marked down to 5 euros ($6.63) from 50 euros in their
family-run store in Athens. The demise of Greece’s economy has
spanned the life of the 2 1/2-year-old girl, and ensures there
are no customers to bump into a week before elections.  “This crisis has meant a 180-degree turn, a somersault in
everyone’s lives, old, young, rich, poor,” says Paschia, 35,
who will vote for the anti-immigrant Golden Dawn party instead
of the two main parties of Pasok or New Democracy on May 6. “We
need new, different voices in parliament.”  For the first time since their country became the byword
for the  European debt crisis , Greeks will have their say at the
ballot box rather than in street protests about the economic
pain they are enduring for a third successive year in the battle
to retain membership of the euro.  Faced with the prospect of more budget cuts to keep
international funds flowing, many voters are backing small anti-
bailout parties that promise an end to austerity measures. While
polls show most people don’t want a return to the drachma,
opponents warn that could tilt the balance in favor of rejecting
the bailout terms and threaten Greece’s membership in the euro.  “At a time of crisis, populist parties, extreme parties
find it easier to inspire people,” said Notis Mitarakis, 39, a
former analyst with Fidelity International who is now standing
for  New Democracy . “It’s difficult for me to inspire you. What
can I tell you, that tomorrow morning you’ll be rich?”  Crunch Time  The Greek economy has shrunk more than 13 percent over the
past three years and  the Athens stock market  has lost more than
two thirds of its value since the last election in October 2009,
when former Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s Pasok unseated
New Democracy only to find the country’s debt had been
understated. The parties have alternated power since the end of
the military junta in 1974.  With voters balking at the burden of two bailout packages
since 2010, the next government will have to persuade
international creditors to keep aid flowing.  “No less than the future of  Greece ’s membership in the
euro and the EU is at stake in the Greek election,”  Joachim Fels , the chief economist at Morgan Stanley in  London , wrote in
a note on April 29. “If there is no stable majority for a
continuation of the current policy path in the new parliament,
Greece might abandon the program, the European partners might
withhold further aid payments, and Greece might decide to leave
the euro to monetise her debts and deficits.”  Splintered Parliament?  Polls show that as many as 10 parties have a chance at
entering parliament, underscoring how weary Greeks have become
with higher taxes, salary cuts and the politicians responsible
for implementing them.  Unemployment has reached one in five people. As many as
1,000 small businesses like Paschia’s will close per week in the
first half of this year, the  European Commission  estimates.  While parties are split over the economic measures designed
to keep Greece in the euro, most politicians and voters alike
want to keep the currency  Just 13 percent of voters want to walk out of the 17-nation
bloc, according to an  MRB Hellas poll  of 1,007 people on April
18 and April 19. Sixty-seven percent said that Greece can stay
in the euro while applying measures different to those agreed
with the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union.
Just 13 percent said Greece has no option but to stick to its
current course.  Georgia Bellou plans to vote for Independent Greeks, a
group set by Panos Kammenos, a 46-year-old former New Democracy
lawmaker who opposed the round of austerity that secured the
second rescue earlier this year. Kammenos said he’d rather quit
the party than be “spat on in the street.”  Survival  “A vote against Pasok and New Democracy isn’t a vote
against austerity measures per se,” said Bellou, 38, an
employee at an events organizing company. “It’s a vote against
not being able to survive anymore.”  Greece goes to the polls two years after the government
negotiated its first, 110 billion-euro package, from the EU and
the IMF. That was followed by a second, 130 billion-euro package
earlier this year, tied to the biggest debt restructuring ever.  Final opinion polls on April 20 showed New Democracy and
Pasok with about 45 percent of the total vote following the
interim government of Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  that was
backed by both parties. Anti-bailout parties on both the left
and right are running at nearly the same support.  The Undecided  The undecided vote is around 20 percent. That could buoy
the two main parties, giving them a solid majority in the 300-
seat parliament and providing the pro-bailout bloc with
political firepower to silence critics, said Spyros Economides,
a senior lecturer at the  London School  of Economics.  “If they together have 151 votes, basically they can do
what they like but it will not be very popular,” he said. “If
they have over 50 percent of the popular vote, whether that’s
160 seats or 180 seats, that will give them a great degree of
popular legitimacy because democracy has shown its hand.”  The parties are relying on people like Christos Romios, 63,
who has voted Pasok, the Greek acronym for the Pan-Hellenic
Socialist Party, all his life. He is now agonizing over whether
he should again and will decide at the last minute.  “I’m too depressed to talk about the elections,” Romios
said as he smoked a cigarette outside his jewelry store in a
cobblestoned alleyway in Athens. “We can’t make ends meet. They
should all be shot. But I am worried that the country will be
ungovernable now with all these small parties.”  Voting History  Fiscal prudence has never played well at the ballot box in
Greece. Last time around, as the global financial crisis began
to press on Greece, then-Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis’s plea
to voters to give him a mandate to freeze public-sector wages
and hiring, cut spending and curb tax evasion fell on deaf ears.
He was defeated by Papandreou’s promise of more spending.  The  Greek economy  was set to shrink that year for the first
time since 1993, ending its run as one of the EU’s best
performers, as the global recession hurt shipping and tourism.  The crisis erupted after successive governments struggled
to execute pension and labor market reforms long demanded by the
EU as Pasok and New Democracy vied for political clout among
unions and other groups.  “This is the first election that’s going to give us an
idea as to whether the Greek electorate has actually changed as
a result of this crisis,” said Economides.  Time Pressure  Polls suggest New Democracy will place first, though
without enough support to rule outright, leaving leader Antonis Samaras with the option of teaming with Pasok, now led by former
Finance Minister  Evangelos Venizelos , if he is to govern.  Failure to strike a deal and back the next government will
likely lead to another election within months, the first time
since 1989 that two votes would have been held in the same year.  There will be no grace period for any new government.
International lenders expect to hear in June how Greece will
detail 11.6 billion euros of savings for 2013 and 2014.  Samaras, 60, has appealed for a clear mandate to allow him
to renegotiate parts of the terms for the EU and IMF funding. He
has promised tax-cuts for businesses to boost growth and to
slash waste in the public sector. He says his party has
identified 18.5 billion euros of alternative cuts to replace
some of those promised to the EU and IMF.  There is little, if any, appetite at the EU or IMF to
renegotiate the agreement, Stephane Deo, the chief European
economist for UBS Securities in London, said in a note to
investors on May 2. He said there would be a “clear risk” that
the IMF would refuse to make the next payment, followed by the
EU. Greece “would simply run out of cash,” he said.  Easy Words  “Words are easy; practice is difficult,” Venizelos, 55,
who negotiated the international rescue granted last month, said
on April 28. “Negotiations are even harder. Equivalent measures
of 18.5 billion euros can’t be found.”  Both Greek leaders and the EU and IMF agree that there is
no more room in the country for across-the-board wage cuts and
higher taxes. The focus now will include cutting the state
workforce, which has been promised and not done. More than
770,000 people draw a salary as civil servants in a nation with
a total workforce is 3.9 million people.  “ Europe  and the IMF need to deliver a message to public
opinion, clearly, that you must deliver the structural changes,
become a more normal country where people pay tax, and the
public sector works, more or less,” said  Riccardo Barbieri ,
chief European economist at Mizuho International Plc in London.
“These are the priorities. At this point everything is too
damaged to make it work otherwise.”  Exodus of Euros  Reviving the banks and getting them to finance business
activity again, is also on the to-do list. Nearly 70 billion
euros in deposits have fled Greek banks since the crisis began
as a question-mark hovers over the country’s future in the euro,
Venizelos said on April 28.  An exit from the currency might lead to capital flight from
other challenged euro members and could unravel the single
currency altogether, said Fels at Morgan Stanley. The risk of a
bank run elsewhere in Europe would be substantial, UBS’s Deo
wrote, arguing that euro exit is not an option.  Meanwhile Greece’s anti-bailout dynamic is scuttling
generations of long-held loyalty. Nikolaos Anastasopoulos voted
for the Communist Party of Greece, as did his father, who was
jailed for his beliefs. He’s now ready to make a break with his
past, blaming the state for corruption, illegal immigrants for
crime and the bailout terms for emptying his store of customers.  Punishing Parties  He also slams the Communist Party for not standing up
enough for workers during the austerity drive.  “I will punish them,” Anastasopoulos, 30, said in his
central  Athens  antique shop, surrounded by embroidery from the
1920s, ashtrays from the 1940s and ceramic jugs from the 1950s.
“We need leaders who are not traitors, who love this country,
not those appointed by the IMF.”  Paschia’s shoe store used to employ a dozen people and now
she runs it with her brother. Both of them were born in  Germany 
to Greek parents and her father wanted to return to Greece,
bringing the family 31 years ago. Now heading back to Germany is
an option, though not one they favor.  “We don’t want to go,” Paschia said as her daughter
darted up and down the store. “We are proud to be Greeks but
ashamed to be living here”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  