-- Gross’s Pimco Total Return Drew $2.7 Billion Last Month
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-05-03T02:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/gross-s-pimco-total-return-drew-2-7-billion-last-month.html
Bill Gross ’s Total Return Fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s biggest mutual
fund, has grown to a record $258.7 billion, the company reported
on its  website .  Total Return Fund attracted $2.7 billion of investor
deposits in April, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The fund has
returned 4.4 percent this year,  beating  98 percent of its peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors piled into
bonds in April, seeking a haven from slowing U.S. economic
growth and Europe’s debt crisis.  Fixed-income assets -- from Australian government debt to
U.S. Treasuries to global  junk bonds  -- gained 0.7 percent last
month including reinvested interest, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show. Bonds were the only investments to provide
positive returns for the first time since the start of 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The MSCI All-Country
World Index of  stocks  lost 1.1 percent including dividends.  Pimco attributed growth in the Total Return Fund to
“investors around the world,” on its website yesterday. The
company, based in  Newport Beach ,  California , is a unit of the
Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)   U.S. Economy Slows  U.S. gross domestic product growth slowed to a 2.2 percent
annual pace in the first quarter from 3 percent in the prior
three months, the Commerce Department reported April 27.
Standard & Poor’s cut Spain’s debt rating April 26, increasing
concern European governments won’t be able to pay their debts.  Gross, who eliminated Treasuries from the fund more than a
year ago, reversed his position and boosted the portion of
assets in U.S. government and Treasury debt to 38 percent as of
the end of January. Since then he’s reduced Treasuries to 32
percent and raised the fund’s holdings of  mortgages  to 53
percent as of March 31, according to Pimco’s website.  Investors pulled about $3 billion from the Total Return
Fund in the three months ended Dec. 31, bringing withdrawals
last year to about $5 billion, according to Chicago-based
Morningstar.  The fund returned 4.2 percent last year, lagging behind 69
percent of its competitors, after Gross missed a rally in U.S.
Treasuries and put money into riskier assets.  To contact the reporter on this story: Wes Goodman in Singapore
at   wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Christian
Baumgaertel at   cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  