-- Mickelson Favors Delaying Golf Hall of Fame Eligibility Until 50
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-05-02T20:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/mickelson-favors-delaying-golf-hall-of-fame-eligibility-until-50.html
Phil Mickelson , who will be inducted
into the  World Golf Hall of Fame  next week at age 41, would
favor delaying his induction speech for another nine years.  The four-time major tournament winner would support a
potential move by the  St. Augustine ,  Florida , hall to delay a
player’s eligibility for induction to age 50 from 40.  “I wouldn’t be opposed to moving the age,” Mickelson told
reporters today in Charlotte,  North Carolina , where he will play
in a U.S. PGA Tour event beginning tomorrow. “Now with fitness
being a bigger part of the tour, careers are going longer. I
think that would probably be a better point to reflect on your
career as opposed to being inducted while you’re right in the
middle of it.”  In November, Mickelson was elected for induction with the
highest voting percentage in a decade. The only player elected
from that U.S. PGA Tour ballot, Mickelson received 72 percent of
the vote, the highest share since  Greg Norman  was elected with
80 percent in 2001,  according to  the hall.  He will be inducted on May 7, three days before the start
of the PGA Tour’s Players championship.  Mickelson said he hasn’t had direct discussions with the
Hall of Fame’s executives about moving the eligibility age. The
issue has been discussed, he said, and “I support it.”  By working with coaches Butch Harmon and Dave Pelz,
Mickelson said his swing involves using “leverage to create
speed” instead of “violence or brute force,” leaving him
relatively healthy.  Looking to Future  “I have no injuries or discomforts in my body,” the left-
hander said. “I feel like these next five years could be the
best of my career. So I’m still looking forward to what these
next five years bring, if not further.”  The winner of 40 PGA Tour events, including the  Masters
Tournament  in 2004, 2006 and 2010 and the  PGA Championship  in
2005, Mickelson became eligible for induction when he turned 40
last year. With his focus on adding more victories to his
resume, Mickelson said his induction speech will focus more on
what golf has meant to his life, as opposed to his on-course
accomplishments.  “It’s meant so much to me in my personal life, not just
what it’s done as an occupation but the people I’ve met
throughout the game, the places it’s taken me, and the
opportunities the game has provided me,” he said. “It’ll be
along those lines.”  Others on the PGA Tour ballot who fell short of the 65
percent vote needed included Fred Couples (38 percent),  Davis Love III  and Mark O’Meara (both 29 percent), and Ken Venturi (27
percent). The PGA Tour ballot voting body consists of golf
journalists, historians and golf dignitaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in  Charlotte  
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  