-- Microchip to Buy Standard Microsystems for $939 Million
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-05-02T20:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/microchip-technology-to-buy-standard-microsystems-for-939m.html
Microchip Technology Inc. (MCHP) , a maker of
microcontrollers and memory products, agreed to buy  Standard
Microsystems Corp. (SMSC)  for about $939 million, adding chips used in
cars, consumer electronics and computers.  The $37 per share price is 41 percent higher than Standard
Microsystems’s closing price of $26.24 yesterday, Microchip said
in a statement today. Standard Microsystems’s shares surged 39
percent to $36.43 at the close in New York.  Standard Microsystems’s chips control data transfer
components in products ranging from automobiles to home-audio
systems and are behind commonly used connections like USB ports.
Microchip, based in Chandler,  Arizona , expects to expand its
role in consumer and industrial markets through the acquisition,
according to the statement.  “It’s a little expensive on the Microchip side,” said
Vernon Essi, an analyst at Needham & Co. in  Boston , who has a
buy rating on Standard Microsystems. “It makes sense
strategically, because you get a lot of revenue synergy and
cross-selling. Definitely there’s consolidation in the
semiconductor industry and this is a continuation of what we’ve
seen before.”  ‘Important Technology’  The acquisition is expected to be completed in the third
quarter, Microchip said. The company expects the purchase to
boost earnings in the first full quarter after completion.
Standard Microsystems has cash and investments of about $173
million.  Microchip fell 0.9 percent to $34.92 in New York. The stock
has lost 4.7 percent this year.  The transaction gives Microchip “an important technology
that is difficult to develop on their own,” said William Harrison, an analyst with Wunderlich Securities Inc. in
Baltimore, who today downgraded Standard Microsystems to hold
from buy.  Harrison, who had a 12-month price target of $30 for
Hauppauge, New York-based Standard Microsystems, said $37 “is a
pretty nice deal for shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  