-- Mileage Rules May Cut Gasoline Tax Income by $57 Billion
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-05-02T20:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/mileage-rules-may-cut-gasoline-tax-income-by-57-billion.html
A proposed rule requiring automakers
to double average fuel economy by 2025 may reduce gasoline-tax
collections for U.S. highway and transit systems by $57 billion
over 11 years, the  Congressional Budget Office  said.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration proposed in
November that the average fuel economy of U.S. fleets rise to
54.5 miles per gallon. That would reduce the amount of money
available for the Highway  Trust Fund  by 13 percent from 2012 to
2022, the CBO said in a  report  released today.  “Policies that are designed to reduce gasoline
consumption, including those that would impose stricter
standards for the fuel economy of vehicles, could decrease
revenues for the trust fund and thus could add to the
shortfall,” the report said.  The CBO previously said the highway portion of the trust
fund would run out of money during the fiscal year that starts
in October. The full effect of the fuel-economy standards on the
highway trust fund wouldn’t be felt until 2040, given the rate
of vehicle turnover and because they would take effect gradually
from 2016 to 2025, according to the report.  Lawmakers could deal with the shortfall by spending less on
highways and mass transit, using more general-fund money from
the  U.S. Treasury  for surface transportation, or raising the
U.S.  gasoline  tax of 18.4 cents per gallon, the CBO concluded.  Complying with the rule, intended to reduce fuel use and
vehicle emissions, would cost as much as $157 billion including
a $2,000 boost to the average vehicle price while saving
consumers as much as $515 billion in fuel costs, the
Environmental Protection Agency and  National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration  have said.  The fund, which pays for road, bridge and transit projects
across the U.S., has been bailed out three times by Congress
since 2008. The U.S. gasoline tax has stayed constant since 1993
with Obama and congressional leaders saying they are unwilling
to raise it in a surface transportation bill lawmakers have
debated this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  