-- Investors Sell Commodities in Longest Drop Since November
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-05-02T20:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/investors-sell-commodities-in-longest-drop-since-november.html
Investors reduced commodity holdings
for seven straight sessions, the longest slide since November, a
possible sign that a rally in prices may be short-lived amid
mounting concern that global growth will slow.  Open interest , or the number of contracts outstanding, in
the 24 commodities tracked by  Standard & Poor’s , fell 2 percent
in the seven sessions through April 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Holdings have dropped even as the S&P
GSCI Spot Index rallied for six sessions to a three-week high
yesterday. The gauge may slump 4.2 percent by the end of July,
according to First Asset Investment Management Inc.  “We are looking at a situation where there is constant tug
of war in the U.S. between good and bad data and a crisis-like
situation in  Europe ,”  John Stephenson , who helps manage $2.7
billion of assets at First Asset Investment Management Inc. in
Toronto. “People are still trying to figure out about  China , so
there is caution.”  The commodity gauge, which includes  raw materials  from gold
to copper to crude oil, declined for a  second straight month  in
April, the longest slump since September. Prices have dropped as
Europe’s debt crisis intensified and reports showed the  U.S.
economy  may be stalling. Money managers have cut their wagers on
a raw-materials rally by 29 percent since reaching this year’s
peak on Feb. 28, government data show.  Sugar Plunge  The S&P GSCI index fell 1.3 percent to settle at 678.65 in
New York, the biggest decline since April 10. Yesterday, it
touched 689.04 yesterday, the highest since April 5. The gauge
may decline to 650 by end-July, First Asset Investment’s
Stephenson said.  Raw sugar led the commodity decline in April, losing 11
percent, as supplies are set to exceed demand by 6 million tons
in 2011-2012, according to an estimate by the  International
Sugar Organization . The most-active contract fell 0.2 percent
today to 20.91 cents per pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  Raw materials will “drift lower” this quarter as central
banks in the U.S. and Europe refrain from adding additional
stimulus, removing the driver that helped lift prices in the
first three months, said UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s largest bank.  Manufacturing expanded in China and the U.S., data showed
yesterday, signaling an economic rebound in the two top
consumers of raw materials. The U.S. Institute for Supply
Management’s factory index climbed to 54.8, the best reading
since June. Readings greater than 50 signal growth.  “Improving manufacturing conditions are likely to delay
any loosening policies,” said Zhang Sida, an analyst at
Shanghai Dalu Futures Co., referring to China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  