-- Lira Falls First Day in Seven After S&P Cuts Outlook to Stable
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-05-02T15:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/lira-falls-first-day-in-seven-after-s-p-cuts-outlook-to-stable.html
The lira weakened for the first time
in seven days as  Standard & Poor’s  said Turkey is the “most
vulnerable” in eastern  Europe  to capital outflows a day after
it cut the country’s credit ratings outlook.  The lira depreciated 0.5 percent to 1.7636 per dollar at
6:18 p.m. in Istanbul, snapping its longest streak of gains
since October. The  yield  on two-year benchmark debt rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 9.34 percent.  Turkey is the most vulnerable of all developing nations in
Europe to “sudden financial account outflows,” S&P said today.
The company cited less-buoyant external demand and worsening
terms of trade as reasons behind the downgrade of the country’s
long-term foreign and local currency ratings outlook to stable
from positive yesterday. Turkish bond and stock markets were
closed for a public holiday yesterday.  “S&P’s decision is the last nail in the coffin for
sporadic speculators of Turkish rating upgrade,” Istanbul-based
Oyak Securities said in an e-mailed note.  The downgrade indicates there is “a less than one out of
three likelihood of an upgrade” over the next 12 months, the
rating company said in an e-mailed statement sent to Bloomberg
today. It affirmed  Turkey ’s long-term foreign currency sovereign
credit ratings at BB, the second-highest non-investment grade.  Fitch Ratings  cut Turkey’s long-term foreign currency
outlook to stable from positive in November, citing the
country’s burgeoning current-account deficit. It rates the
country at BB+, one step below investment grade. The nation’s
foreign-currency debt is rated Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service,
the equivalent level to S&P’s, with a positive outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  