-- Iraqi Air Halts CRJ Order, Seeks Boeing or Airbus Jets With Loan
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l   A n s a r y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-05-02T17:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/iraqi-air-halts-crj-order-seeks-boeing-or-airbus-jets-with-loan.html
Iraqi Airways  plans to halt an order
to buy regional jets from Canada’s  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  in favor of
larger planes most likely from  Boeing Co. (BA)  or Airbus SAS after
the government granted it a $300 million interest-free loan.  The carrier is unlikely to convert on option to buy further
90-seat Bombardier CRJ900 planes after taking delivery of six of
the type and is seeking bigger jetliners, State Minister Ali Al- Dabbagh said today in a telephone interview from Baghdad.  “There was an option to add four more, but Iraq is not very
enthusiastic,” he said. “The technical report for this kind of
plane was not very positive in terms of its limited capacity in
a country that’s witnessing such growth in aviation activities.”  Iraq ’s Ministry of Finance will grant the loan via Rafidain
Bank and Rasheed Bank, which are state-owned, with the airline
repaying the money over 10 years, according to Dabbagh. The
government also agreed in March to pay $300 million to resolve a
dispute with Kuwait Airways Corp. over compensation for 10
planes seized when Saddam Hussein’s forces invaded in 1990.  As part of the deal, Kuwait will invest $200 million to
establish a joint airline company with Iraqi Airways, which
operates to about a dozen airports in the  Middle East .  The Iraqi government has told Bombardier that it has
postponed delivery of the four remaining regional planes “until
further notice,” according to a statement today.  While Boeing and Airbus dominate the single-aisle market
with their 737 and A320-series models, the Canadian company is
building an airliner of its own, the C-Series, and rival planes
are also under development in Russia and  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad through the Dubai newsroom at 
   kalansary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  