-- IRS Delays Options, Debt Instrument Basis Reporting
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-05-02T16:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/irs-delays-options-debt-instrument-basis-reporting.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  is
delaying a requirement that brokers report their customers’ cost
basis in options and debt instruments.  The decision was made in response to requests from brokers
and custodial banks including the  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ,
 State Street Corp. (STT)  and  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)   The rules will be delayed one year and will take effect for
options granted or acquired or debt instruments purchased
beginning in 2014, the IRS said today.  In a Jan. 31 letter, BNY Mellon, State Street and Northern
Trust asked the U.S. government to delay the effective date for
debt until 2015 and for options until 2014.  “Due to the substantial complexities associated with
obtaining adequate data, developing compliant systems and
perfecting the ability to make cost basis adjustments for debt
instruments and options, we believe that Treasury should
exercise its authority to delay implementation,” they wrote.  The  American Bankers Association , the Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association and Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC were among other organizations requesting a delay.  Reporting Taxable Profits  Congress created the cost basis requirement in 2008 in the
same law that authorized the Troubled Asset Relief Program. It
is designed to make sure that taxpayers don’t overstate their
basis and thus underreport taxable profits.  The requirement is part of the government’s effort to
reduce the estimated $385 billion annual net gap between taxes
owed and taxes paid. When enacted, the provision was estimated
to raise $6.7 billion over a decade, according to the
congressional Joint Committee on Taxation.  The rules took effect for stocks purchased and sold in
2011, and taxpayers filing returns this year encountered new
forms and instructions. The basis-reporting regime expands in
2012 to cover mutual funds and many exchange-traded funds.  Susan Rivers, a spokeswoman for BNY Mellon, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  