-- Italy Unemployment Rises to 12-Year High as Slump Worsens
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-05-02T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/italy-unemployment-rises-to-x-year-high-as-slump-worsens.html
Italy’s  unemployment rate  rose more
than economists forecast in March to the highest since 2000 as
companies failed to hire amid signs of a deepening recession in
the euro region’s third-largest  economy .  Joblessness increased to a seasonally-adjusted 9.8 percent
from a revised 9.6 percent in February, Rome-based national
statistics office  Istat  said in a preliminary report today. The
reading, the highest since the third quarter of 2000, compared
with a 9.4 percent median estimate by nine economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  After slipping into its fourth recession since 2001 in the
final three months of last year, the Italian economy probably
shrank again in the first quarter as rising joblessness
undermined  domestic demand , employers’ lobby  Confindustria  said
on April 18. Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s Cabinet last month
forecast the economy will contract 1.2 percent this year. The
Rome-based Treasury also predicted that unemployment won’t start
declining until 2013.  “Unemployment will keep soaring sharply as the conditions
that caused it will remain,” Confindustria said last month.
“There will be more job cuts and an increase in people looking
for employment amid a decline in real income.”  The Italian parliament will debate this month an overhaul
of the labor code that the government says will spur employment.
The plan gives employers more leeway to fire staff and creates a
new system of  unemployment benefits .  The initiative is Monti’s fourth major legislative effort
to revamp the economy after measures in December aimed at
reducing  Italy ’s deficit and two packages earlier this year to
make the country more competitive and to simplify bureaucracy.  Istat originally reported a jobless rate of 9.3 percent in
February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  