-- John Arnold Closes Centaurus Hedge Fund as Gas Near Lows
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2012-05-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/john-arnold-closes-centaurus-hedge-fund-after-10-years.html
John Arnold , the hedge-fund manager
who became a billionaire betting on natural gas prices, said
he’s closing his Centaurus Energy Master Fund “to pursue other
interests.”  “In the past 10 years, we have achieved more success than
I could have hoped for or imagined,” Arnold said in a letter
obtained yesterday by Bloomberg News. “We achieved outstanding
returns for our investors -- often in the triple digits -- while
having the discipline and rigor to stay true to our core
investment focus.”  Arnold shutters Centaurus as natural gas prices hover near
10-year lows, stifling returns. It’s the second major energy
hedge fund to close in the last four weeks. BlueGold Capital
Management LLP, the $1 billion fund co-founded by  Pierre Andurand , said April 5 it’s liquidating after losing 34 percent
last year.  Arnold, 37, left Enron as the energy company collapsed in
2002 and founded Houston-based Centaurus with three employees
and $8 million of his own money, according to a 2006  report  from
the U.S. Senate  Permanent Subcommittee  on Investigations, which
cited a New York Times story. The fund gained fame betting
against Amaranth Advisors LLC, a hedge fund that collapsed in
2006 after losing $6.6 billion on bad bets in the natural gas
market.  Arnold didn’t return calls or e-mails seeking comment.  By 2009, Centaurus employed 70 people and had $5 billion
under management, according to Arnold’s  testimony  that year
before the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  ‘Legendary’ Investor  “‘Legendary’ is the correct term in his case,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge
fund that focuses on energy, in a phone interview. “There are
contenders and pretenders, and he was a contender.”  It became harder to make money as natural gas production
rose to a record, swelling supplies to all-time highs, Kilduff
said.  Marketed gas production reached a record 66.22 billion
cubic feet a day in 2011 and may rise another 4.5 percent this 
year, according to Energy Department estimates. Inventories rose 
to 2.548 trillion cubic feet the week ended April 20, 55 percent
above the five-year average, the Energy Department reported last
week.  Natural gas prices slid 11.8 cents, or 5 percent, to settle
at $2.253 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was the biggest drop since May 5.
Futures have declined 25 percent this year, making gas the worst
performer on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities.  ‘Immensely Proud’  “I am immensely proud of what we created,” Arnold said in
his letter. “However, after seventeen years as an energy
trader, I feel that it is time to pursue other interests.”  Arnold and his wife, Laura Arnold, established the Laura
and John Arnold Foundation and have joined  The Giving Pledge ,
which encourages billionaires to give more than half of their
wealth to charity, according to a letter on the group’s website.  “We are deeply indebted to our community and our country
for the many opportunities granted to us, and for a social and
economic environment in which we could make the most of those
opportunities,” the couple said in the  letter.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in  New York  at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  