-- KA Finanz Sticks to Strategy After Greek Loss Mars 2011
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-05-02T12:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/ka-finanz-sticks-to-strategy-after-greek-loss-mars-2011.html
KA Finanz AG, the so-called bad bank
of a nationalized Austrian lender, will continue to reduce
assets gradually rather than liquidate them at once even after
that strategy caused a hit for taxpayers on  Greece ’s debt swap.  KA Finanz, which was split off from municipal lender
Kommunalkredit Austria AG to warehouse its risky assets, would
lose 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion) if it sold loans and
securities and replaced credit-default swaps immediately to
eliminate future risk, Chief Executive Officer Alois Steinbichler told journalists in Vienna today. The strategy to
keep assets on the books led to a 1 billion-euro loss for KA
Finanz in Greece’s debt swap in March.  “A wind-down bank isn’t supposed to take a lot of capital
and get rid of the risk as soon as possible by realizing
losses,” Steinbichler said. “It’s a permanent balancing act
where you see how much in losses you can realize without raising
new capital” from taxpayers, he said.  KA Finanz’s predecessor, Kommunalkredit, was nationalized
in 2008 when it was near collapse after the Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. bankruptcy. While Kommunalkredit continues as a
municipal lender and must be returned to private ownership again
by June 2013, bad bank KA Finanz took on securities, loans and
swaps that aren’t part of that main business and is winding down
those assets.  Spain, Portugal  KA Finanz reduced its holdings by about 11.5 billion euros
since Kommunalkredit’s nationalization to 17.7 billion euros by
March 31. More than 6 billion euros of assets were sold, while
the rest was redeemed or expired.  Spain ,  Portugal  and Ireland
are among the largest remaining risks with 832 million euros at
stake for KA Finanz in Spain alone, Steinbichler said.  The biggest holdings are in swaps Kommunalkredit wrote
mostly from 2005 to 2007. By March 31, it still insured about
8.3 billion euros of debt, including 627 million euros of
Portugal’s and 663 million euros of Ireland’s, according to its
annual report. The market value of the swaps, equaling the cost
of terminating the contracts, widened to 1.37 billion euros by
the end of 2011 from 1.02 billion euros a year earlier, even as
the portfolio shrank.  Austrian taxpayers have propped up KA Finanz with a net 1.9
billion euros of cash and guarantees, more than half of which
had to cover the Greek loss. Remaining capital from its previous
owners,  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  and  Dexia SA (DEXB) , was wiped
out in a capital reduction last week. Steinbichler said the cut
was “on firm legal ground.”  KA Finanz’s sister Kommunalkredit said business in the
first quarter supported its expectation to report a profit this
year after a net loss of 148.8 million euros in 2011, which was
also driven by a writedown of 176.3 million euros on Greek
 government bonds .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  