-- Kenya May Hold Benchmark Rate at Record to Meet Target
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-05-02T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/kenya-may-hold-benchmark-rate-at-record-to-meet-target.html
Kenya’s central bank will probably
keep its key  lending rate  at a record high for a fifth
consecutive month as it struggles to meet an inflation target.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by central bank Governor
Njuguna Ndung’u, will leave the policy rate at 18 percent today,
according to five of the seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The others expected a reduction of 1 percentage point. The
Nairobi-based bank will publish its decision in an e-mailed
statement.  Inflation slowed to 13.1 percent in April, the lowest level
in almost a year, as the impact of last year’s drought eased and
the central bank boosted interest rates six times. The bank is
targeting inflation of 9 percent by June. In neighboring  Uganda ,
the central bank yesterday left its benchmark rate unchanged at
21 percent for a second month.  “The central bank has made it clear its target is for
single-digit inflation and they will likely hold that rate to
try and reach it,” Robert Gatobu, a fixed-income dealer with
Nairobi-based Bank of Africa Ltd., said in a phone interview
yesterday.  Rising oil prices are fanning inflationary pressure in  East
Africa ’s biggest economy, reducing policy makers’ scope to lower
interest rates. Persian Gulf Murban  crude , the fuel imported for
refining in Kenya, climbed 8.1 percent to $120.89 per barrel
this year, prompting the government to increase gasoline costs.  Rate Cut Pressure  Ndung’u has so far rejected demands for lower interest
rates. Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  last month added his voice to
calls from businesses and consumers to reduce borrowing costs.
Some lawmakers had pushed to cap commercial bank lending rates
though the bid failed in Parliament on April 19.  “The longer the rate stays up high, the harder the landing
the economy will be in for,” Yvonne Mhango, an economist at
 Renaissance Capital  in Johannesburg, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “Credit growth is already slowing, so we can see the
impact the high  interest rate  is having on economic activity.”  Borrowing by the consumers and businesses eased to 15.6
percent in March from 16.7 percent in the previous month,
according to the central bank. The government said on April 17
slower global growth may undermine its target of 5.2 percent
economic expansion in 2012.  High interest rates in  Kenya  have supported the currency,
which gained 21 percent against the dollar since the beginning
of October to 83.50 as of 6:30 p.m. in Nairobi yesterday.  Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  