-- King Says BOE Will Risk Unpopularity to Prevent Crises
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-03T07:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/king-says-boe-will-risk-unpopularity-to-prevent-future-crises.html
Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King
said central bank officials are prepared to take unpopular
measures to prevent banking excesses from undermining financial
stability and economic growth.  “Our role will be to take away the punch bowl just as the
next party is getting going,” King said in a radio address late
yesterday in London. “That won’t make us popular among bankers,
politicians and even at times some of you, and it’s not supposed
to. But it will, I hope, reflect the trust and confidence that
the citizens of this country can place in the Old Lady of
Threadneedle Street,” a nickname for the central bank.  As officials prepare for a decision next week on whether to
extend their  bond-buying program  to lift the economy from its
first  double-dip recession  since 1975, King said the economy
isn’t yet “back to health” and needs the support of low
interest rates. The governor, who will retire in June 2013,
spoke days before the central bank marks 15 years of
independence from government in setting monetary policy.  “We have a difficult challenge and our job is to do our
best to try to steer the economy back onto a steady growth
path,” he said in response to questions. “For the time being
that means low interest rates.”  In a BBC radio interview today, King said the U.K. will see
a “slow and steady recovery” starting this year.  Services Weaken  A report today may show that  growth in services , the
biggest part of the economy, probably slowed in April. An index
of services may have slipped to 54.1 from 55.3, according to the
median of 28 economists in a Bloomberg survey. A reading above
50 indicates expansion. Similar gauges for manufacturing and
 construction  earlier this week also declined.  The pound fell for a fourth day against the dollar,
declining 0.1 percent to $1.6183 as of 8:27 a.m. in London. U.K.
government bonds were little changed, with the yield on the 10-
year gilt at 2.05 percent.  As the Bank of  England  prepares to regain powers to
regulate the banking industry, King said that the central bank
is “up to the task.”  “Already we see vested interests rise up to defend their
bonuses and profits,” he said. “But, as an independent central
bank with over three centuries of history, we can resist those
short-term pressures and take the longer view needed to prevent
another crisis.”  ‘Far From Over’  King said the euro area remains the biggest risk to U.K.
banks and the turmoil in the region illustrates that the current
crisis is “far from over.”  The U.K. economy isn’t yet “back to health” and inflation
is “still too high” even after cooling in recent months, he
said. “Despite efforts to stimulate the economy, the recovery
is proving slower than we had hoped. It will come. But dealing
with the consequences of our ‘bad banking situation’ is likely
to be a long, slow process.”  Bank of England officials are preparing new economic
forecasts and will announce their next policy decision on May
10. They kept the ceiling for  asset purchases  at 325 billion
pounds ($526 billion) last month and held the benchmark  interest
rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent.  “We are now significantly worse off than we were four
years ago”  after the turmoil wrought by an “overextended”
financial system, King said. The increase in unemployment around
the world will “seem deeply unfair, and it is. I can understand
why so many people are angry.”  Banking Reforms  King called on the U.K. government to quickly adopt the
reforms recommended by the Independent Commission on Banking. He
also said banks must retain profits to build buffers and that
officials should create a global regime for managing failing
institutions that shields taxpayers from having to provide
bailouts.  The Bank of England’s  Financial Policy Committee , which
will have the power to address “risks building in the financial
sector,” will add to the bank’s powers to prevent future
crises, he said.  The FPC, to be established by a bill now being considered
in Parliament, is part of the central bank’s “biggest challenge
for decades” as it recovers powers that it lost with
independence in 1997, King said. “Although far from clear at
the time, the later decision to remove from the Bank of England
the power to regulate banks would return to haunt us.”  As the crisis took hold, King said the bank was left only
with the power of “publishing reports and preaching sermons.”
While it did that, “we didn’t imagine the scale of the disaster
that would occur when the risks crystallized.”  ‘Hindsight’  “With the benefit of hindsight, we should have shouted
from the rooftops” on the fragilities that had built up, the
governor said. “And in the crisis, we tried, but should have
tried harder, to persuade everyone of the need to recapitalize
the banks sooner and by more.”  King said his radio address was intended to describe the
 policy changes  needed amid the “long shadow” cast by the
financial crisis.  “Fifty years from now, will our grandchildren ask why we
lacked the courage to put in place reforms to stop a crisis
happening again?” he said. “I hope not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in Brussels at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  