-- Koch Asks Appeals Court to Toss Christie’s Wine Ruling
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-05-02T17:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/koch-asks-appeals-court-to-toss-christie-s-wine-ruling.html
Billionaire William Koch asked a U.S.
appeals court to revive a lawsuit in which he claimed that the
auction house Christie’s International Plc induced him to buy
counterfeit wine.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones threw out Koch’s suit in
March 2011, saying that he knew the bottle of 1870 Lafite wine
he bought for $4,200 was counterfeit before he made the
purchase. Koch’s lawyer today urged three judges of the appeals
court in  Manhattan  to reverse that ruling and restore the case.
The judges made no decision.  Edward Spiro, Koch’s lawyer, told the judges that Jones
applied an incorrect legal standard in reaching her decision. He
said Koch was aware that the wine auctioned by Christie’s was
“possibly” counterfeit, though not “probable.” He said Jones
relied on a report that was “inconclusive.”  “Did it rise to the level of probable?” Spiro said in
court. “The evidence was all over the place.”  Koch sued Christie’s in 2010 claiming he bought the Lafite
to prove that the auction house was selling counterfeit wine. He
previously acquired from a dealer some 1787 wine that President
 Thomas Jefferson  was said to have owned, which Christie’s had
vouched for and turned out to be counterfeit.  ‘Textbook Case’  The judges today repeatedly questioned the lawyers about
when Koch knew that the wines might be counterfeit. An attorney
for Christie’s argued that Koch had enough information to sue
the auction house in 1993, or 17 years before he eventually did.  “This is a textbook case application of the statute of
limitations,” Jonathan Lerner, Christie’s lawyer, told the
judges. “By 1993, he could have sprung into action.”  Spiro said Koch hired a lawyer in 1993 to monitor cases
involving the sale of counterfeit wine. He said the Jefferson
Foundation conducted a worldwide investigation and discovered
fraud no earlier than 2005.  “He did not sit on his rights,” Spiro said. “Christie’s
involvement in this fraud was not easily detected.”  The case is Koch v. Christie’s International, 10-02804,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  