-- Krugman Wishes He Were Wrong Amid EU Austerity Backlash
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-05-03T14:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/krugman-wishes-he-was-wrong-amid-eu-austerity-backlash.html
Europe ’s shifting emphasis from
enforcing austerity to seeking economic growth marks a hollow
victory for Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman .  “I wish I’d been wrong for the sake of the world,”
 Krugman  said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Carol Massar . “You can see that there has been a definite shift in
opinion.”  The euro area’s push to revive confidence in its economy
and financial markets by attacking budget deficits will be
challenged at the ballot boxes of France and Greece on May 6 as
the region’s economy skids toward its second recession in three
years and  unemployment  nears 11 percent.  Leading demands for a revised strategy, French Socialist
 Francois Hollande , a reader of Krugman, tops President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in the polls with the warning that putting debt-cutting
over expansion is “bringing desperation to people.” Elsewhere,
Greeks are turning to anti-austerity parties, recession-wracked
Spain and Italy are relaxing deficit targets, the Dutch
government is splintering and European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  is calling for a “growth compact.”  The U.K., which the  International Monetary Fund  reckons
accounts for a third of the budget cuts in the 10 largest
European Union countries, is already back in recession.  Losing Balance  “You can’t do deficit reduction without the people”
understanding and endorsing it, said Paul Martin, who as
Canada’s finance minister through most of the 1990s turned a
C$36 billion ($36 billion) shortfall into a surplus in three
years. “Deficit reduction has to be balanced with growth and
it’s pretty clear  Europe (BEBANKS)  has lost that balance.”  The debate has split policy makers, investors and academics
alike as Europe pursued a cocktail of tax increases and spending
cuts to beat a sovereign debt crisis that raged from Greece
through Ireland and Portugal to the very heart of the single
currency bloc.  In a camp that boasts fellow Nobel winner Joseph Stiglitz
and former U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers, Krugman’s
voice has been loudest in warning that deploying austerity in a
slump is self-defeating as it deepens the economic pain and can
generate even higher debt. For pulpits, the 59-year-old
Princeton University professor has a regular  New York  Times op-
ed and blog. A book, “End This Depression Now!” was published
this week and is already among the bestsellers on Amazon.com
Inc.’s U.S. website.  ‘Not a Whim’  “Francois Hollande has read Krugman,” Michel Sapin, one
of Hollande’s economic advisers, said in an interview. “His
writings show that Hollande’s proposals are not a whim and that
this idea that  growth  is key is spreading.”  To Krugman, advocates of fiscal retrenchment such as German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  are ideological “austerians” who by
misunderstanding the ills they’re trying to cure risk “Europe’s
economic suicide.” He calculates that paring government
spending by one euro ($1.32) generates only about 40 cents in
reduced debt in the short-run and 1.25 euros in lost production.  “Aggressive fiscal austerity is self-defeating if you can’t
grow,” said  Andrew Balls , the London-based head of European
portfolio management at  Pacific Investment Management Co. (PTTRX) , which
oversees the world’s largest bond fund. “Krugman is a highly
respected economist with a prominent platform who provides a
very clear explanation of that view.”  ‘Genius’ Spokesman  Kevin O’Rourke, who teaches at the  University of Oxford ,
calls Krugman a “genius” who is applying the “very simple”
lessons of economics that were patronised as not technical
enough by those who argued austerity wouldn’t derail growth.  “He has become the spokesman for all of us who believe
that our time in undergraduate lecture halls was not wasted,”
said O’Rourke, whose research Krugman has praised on his blog.  Not all buy it, including Germany’s Merkel, who pushed for
a fiscal pact to ensure better discipline in the future and
which 25 of the European Union’s 27 governments signed up to.  The skeptics argue Europe’s overly-indebted nations helped
trigger the financial crisis and now will only attract investors
and restore competitiveness once they have put their fiscal
houses in order.  Spain  now pays almost 6 percent to borrow for
10 years, up from about 4 percent in 2009. Germany pays about
1.6 percent.  ECB Meeting  Draghi delivered no new monetary or liquidity stimulus
after chairing a meeting of the policy-setting Governing Council
in Barcelona today. The central bank left its benchmark  interest
rate  at 1 percent.  “We can only win back confidence if we bring down
excessive deficits and boost competitiveness,” Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann said April 23.  Columbia University economists Jeffrey Sachs and  Edmund Phelps  both reject Krugman’s view as a “crude” form of the
pump priming proposals of John Maynard Keynes, the 20th century
British economist. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke last
week dismissed Krugman’s call for the U.S. central bank to allow
much faster inflation as “reckless.”  “I can’t stand this rubbish anymore,” said Norbert Walter, the former chief economist of Deutsche Bank AG who now
runs his own consultancy. “If you are in a cul-de-sac the only
way out is to go backward. Countries clearly living beyond their
means must reverse.”  Merkel’s Medicine  That’s the prescription of Merkel, who holds Europe’s purse
strings. She backs austerity abroad in keeping with Germany’s
historical preference for prudence, which dates back to the
aftermath of overspending and hyperinflation in the 1920s.  “We’re not saying that saving solves all problems,”
Merkel told a conference in Berlin on April 24. Still, “you
can’t spend more than you take in. You can’t live your whole
life this way. Everybody knows this.”  Krugman, who won the Nobel Prize in 2008 for his research
on trade, argues the birth of the euro in 1999 led to a boom in
money flowing into peripheral nations like Spain and Portugal as
investors bet their debt was now as safe as Germany’s. Nations
prospered with property often leading the way.  When the lending dried up amid the global credit crunch,
the economic-tailspin and need to rescue banks propelled budgets
and current accounts into the red. That shows to Krugman that,
with the exception of  Greece , the causes of Europe’s woes are
private debts rather than fiscal irresponsibility.  Spanish Debt  Spain’s government, for example, ran a debt of 36 percent
of gross domestic product in 2007 and Ireland’s was 25 percent.
By comparison, Germany’s was 65 percent at the time. While
Italy’s debt was 103 percent of GDP in 2007 its budget deficit
was 1.6 percent and Ireland’s account was in balance. Take
Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain as a group and its
debt was declining into 2007, Krugman estimates.  That suggests public budget cuts are only intensifying the
pain caused by a reduction of private investment and spending,
according to Krugman. Deprived of their own currency or central
bank to help lessen the pain through devaluation or printing
money, countries are left trying to deflate their economies to
regain competitiveness.  That leaves the likes of Spain now needing outside help, he
says. In his view, the ECB could cut  interest rates  to encourage
inflation and stand by to purchase more  government bonds .
Healthier nations with stronger budgets and trade positions such
as Germany should stimulate their economies to increase demand
and relative prices.  U.S. Lesson  For Krugman, Europe’s recent history has lessons for the
U.S. where presumptive Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  says President  Barack Obama  is “leading us in a
direction of Greece.”  Irritated by the “Hellenization” of the economic debate,
Krugman wants America to introduce more stimulus at a time when
the U.S. pays just 1.9 percent to borrow for a decade.  “They’ve had a firming up of their view that austerity in
the face of a depressed economy is actually harmful,” Krugman
told Bloomberg Television.  Krugman’s argument chimes with that of Summers, the former
Treasury secretary, who says the idea of being able to cut your
way to growth “is oxymoronic and there are days when you don’t
even need the prefix” oxy.  Using IMF data, Summers calculates that when demand is weak
and interest rates are about zero, a one percent reduction in
the ratio of spending to GDP reduces economic growth by as much
as 1.5 percent.  Credit Concern  “This means austerity measures at the national level are
likely to be counterproductive in terms of creditworthiness,”
he wrote in the Financial Times this week. “Fiscal contraction
reduces incomes, limiting the capacity to repay debts.”  Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy and his Italian
counterpart Mario Monti now both say it will take longer to
balance their budgets than previously anticipated. Monti is
implementing 20 billion euros of fresh spending cuts and tax
hikes, while Spain is making the deepest budget cuts in at least
three decades.  While stopping short of advocating stimulus, Draghi wants
European countries to encourage greater structural changes,
trading links, labor flexibility and competitiveness in ways
that will lure private investment. Governments may add an annex
to their budget pact listing ways countries can boost expansion.  “We have to put growth back at the center of the agenda
without any contradiction with the need to continue, persevere
in fiscal consolidation,” Draghi said today.  Hollande wants to go even further and advocates fostering
growth by spending existing European funds and new revenue
sources that would be generated from measures such as eurobonds
and financial-transaction taxes.  Euro Debt  While Germany is willing to strengthen the European
Investment Bank to help it provide more support, Merkel is
against broader spending, especially given the euro area’s
aggregate government debt reached 8.2 trillion euros last year,
the highest in the currency’s history.  The IMF projects Spain’s deficit to reach 6 percent of GDP
this year and Italy’s debt to top 123 percent of GDP, both
double the limits of the euro-area rules.  The German chancellor says such imbalances need correcting
and that any talk of a growth compact should be limited to
measures needing “political courage and creativity rather than
billions of euros.”  Outside the euro, even as the U.K. economy suffers its
first double-dip recession since the 1970s, Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government is pushing ahead with the largest  budget 
cuts since World War II, pointing to Greece as a reason. It
would be “absolute folly” to change course and risk higher
interest rates, Cameron said last week.  ‘Blinkered’  Nobel laureate Phelps said in an interview that he finds
Krugman’s analysis “somewhat blinkered and shallow” because
easing austerity in Europe could lead to even weaker economies
as investors impose higher borrowing costs. Spain’s 10-year bond
yield jumped about a percentage point after the government
revised its deficit goal in early March.  “I’ll cut to the chase and say I don’t think his position
is very well judged,” said Phelps. “I don’t think he’s paying
enough attention to the fact that whatever the causes of the
deficits are, countries are up against it.”  While Harvard University professor Kenneth Rogoff said he
shares the point that faster inflation would be worthwhile, he
said Krugman understates the pain debt can have on an economy in
the longer-term.  In a  paper  published this week, Rogoff and co-authors
Vincent and Carmen Reinhart find countries with debts exceeding
90 percent of the size of their economy historically have
experienced subpar growth for more than two decades even if
their interest rates remain low.  Krugman appears nonplussed. The alternative to action is
Europe’s troubled economies end up correcting their imbalances
in a glacial way and may eventually consider leaving the euro,
something which will become more attractive as unemployment
mounts. He already predicts Greece will jump or be pushed.  “That will concentrate minds,” he told Bloomberg
Television. There are “echoes of the 1930s out there in Europe
and this is scary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  