-- Nasdaq OMX’s BX Options Exchange to Copy Electronic Market Rules
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-05-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/nasdaq-omx-s-bx-options-exchange-to-copy-electronic-market-rules.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  will use rules
from another electronic options market it owns to hasten the
introduction of its third equity derivatives venue, the company
told regulators.  Nasdaq OMX BX Options will utilize trading rules from
Nasdaq Options Market, the firm told the Securities and Exchange
Commission in a rule  filing  that didn’t say how the venue will
differentiate itself from other markets. The exchange, slated to
start trading in late June, must win approval before it can be
introduced.  “The exchanges have built their market models around
attracting different segments of participants and order flow,”
 Andy Nybo , principal and head of derivatives at New York-based
Tabb Group LLC, said in a phone interview. “Are exchanges going
to continue to slice and dice that order flow to get a smaller
piece of a growing pie?” The challenge, he said, is to offer
new features “instead of replicating existing models.”  U.S. options trading reached a ninth-straight annual record
last year, according to data compiled by Chicago-based OCC,
which clears equity derivatives transactions. Options exchanges
construct trading rules and pricing models to entice different
participants, sometimes targeting individual investors, market
makers or brokers interested in buying or selling a larger
number of contracts at one time.  Exchange companies such as Nasdaq OMX, NYSE Euronext,  CBOE
Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , each of which have two options exchanges, have
used their markets to give investors more choice. Nasdaq OMX, at
least initially, may use the same rules while offering different
pricing in its new market.  Less Effort  “This approach minimizes the technical effort required for
existing BX members to begin trading options on the BX Options
market,” the exchange told the SEC in the filing. “BX Options
will differentiate its market by offering innovative features in
the future.”  BX Options told regulators the exchange will initially have
the same rules as  Nasdaq Options Market , introduced in 2008 as a
so-called maker-taker market that pays the suppliers of bids and
offers and charges those executing against them. The largest
options markets at the time had what are called pro-rata models
that guarantee a portion of incoming trades to market makers
quoting at the best price and don’t charge retail investors or
institutions such as mutual funds for executions.  Since January 2007, when options exchanges were allowed to
quote products less than $3 in 1-cent price increments, venues
with more traditional pricing began shifting to a hybrid
structure of pro-rata and maker-taker rules, depending on the
contracts and their daily trading activity. There are now nine
options exchanges, compared with four -- all with trading floors
-- in 1999.  2008 Purchase  BOX Options Exchange, which received SEC approval last week
as a so-called self-regulatory organization that can run its own
venue, is surrendering the license Nasdaq OMX will now use.
Nasdaq OMX  bought  BSE Group, which operated the Boston Equities
Exchange, for $61 million in 2008. It didn’t acquire BOX, which
was using the same license and will shift to its own this month,
according to BOX Chief Operating Officer Anthony McCormick.  BOX focuses in part on retail trading through its rules and
the introduction in 2004 of a system that seeks to give
customers better prices than those publicly available.  U.S. options volume decreased 4.7 percent to 335 million
contracts last month from a year ago, according to data compiled
by OCC. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange  was the largest
individual market with 27.1 percent of total trading, followed
by Nasdaq OMX PHLX with 18.2 percent, OCC said. While Chicago-
based CBOE Holdings’s two exchanges had the highest share of all
trading,  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and Nasdaq OMX in New York had a bigger
portion of options based on stocks and exchange-traded funds and
excluding indexes, the OCC data  showed .  ‘Dispersion’  “With electronic markets, there’s been a dramatic change
in the industry,” Jerry Markham, professor of law at  Florida
International University  in Miami, said in a phone interview.
“It opened trading up to competition from all sides and you can
see it in the dispersion of volume on options exchanges. Others
I’m sure want to go after that.”  A debate has stretched on for decades about whether
increased competition among exchanges at the expense of
liquidity, or orders at multiple prices, on individual venues
outweighs the advantages of consolidating demand in a single
location with fewer rivals, Markham said. The SEC has discussed
the topic in reports including its Special Study of 1963 that
set the framework for rules over the next generation and in
papers on fragmentation in 2000 and equities market structure in
 2010 .  Arbitrage  Exchange companies benefit from offering multiple markets
that compete for buy and sell requests as investors spurred by
lower trading costs submit more orders. They also gain from
transactions by firms seeking arbitrage opportunities because of
price differences across venues. Exchanges earn market data
revenue from quotes and trades as well as fees from brokers or
other firms that pay to place their computers closer to those
that match trades at the venues.  The  International Securities Exchange , introduced in 2000
as the first all-electronic venue, plans to start a second
market this year. Nasdaq OMX will be the only company with three
U.S. equity derivative markets once BX Options begins trading.
Miami International Holdings Inc. also plans to start a venue.  “With 12 exchanges planned, you really need to create a
better mousetrap to attract flow,” Nybo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  