-- New Dodgers Owners Reduce Parking Rates, Say McCourt Gets None
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-05-02T20:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/new-dodgers-owners-reduce-parking-rates-say-mccourt-gets-none.html
The new owners of the  Los Angeles 
Dodgers lowered parking rates to $10 from $15 at their first
press conference since closing the deal yesterday and said
former proprietor  Frank McCourt  won’t get any of it.  Guggenheim Baseball Management LLC paid $2 billion for the
team yesterday, a record for any sports franchise. Today at
Dodger Stadium, basketball Hall of Famer  Magic Johnson , who is
part of the group, said former owner McCourt will not get any
team-related revenue.  “He doesn’t get a dime from the parking,” Johnson said.
“Frank McCourt is not involved in any shape, fashion.”  Johnson, who played for the Los Angeles Lakers, joined  Mark Walter , chief executive of the Guggenheim Partners investment
firm, and  Stan Kasten , a former president of the Atlanta Braves,
in buying the team. Kasten is the club’s chief executive officer.  Kasten said the group had a dozen engineers evaluate the
50-year-old stadium, and initial investments would focus on its
water, power and information technology infrastructure. The
group will examine other operations this season. Ticket and
merchandise prices have already come down, Kasten said, and
concessions are being reviewed.  “We’re not here to gouge the fan,” said Johnson, 52.
“We’re going to pour money into the team. I don’t want anyone
to think just because we wrote a big check, we’re going to stop
now.”  McCourt put the team into bankruptcy in June during a high-
profile divorce from his wife Jamie. He claimed Major League
Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig forced the team into a cash
crisis by rejecting a new contract with  News Corp. (NWS) ’s Fox Sports,
which holds the television rights through 2013.  The Dodgers announced in March that McCourt and affiliates
of the new owners were forming a joint venture to acquire the
land around the stadium. McCourt will only share in revenue from
future development of the property, Walter and Johnson said
today.  The Dodgers, who moved to Los Angeles from Brooklyn,  New
York , in 1958, have won six World Series titles and 21 National
League pennants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  