-- New Europe Ports Seen Unprofitable With Slump Deepening
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-05-03T13:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/new-europe-ports-seen-unprofitable-with-slump-deepening-freight.html
Europe ’s top container ports face a
glut in capacity that’s set to crimp profit margins as new
terminals ordered prior to the 2008 slump open for business.  Harbors in northern Europe including Antwerp, Hamburg and
Rotterdam, the continent’s top three, will increase annual
capacity 21 percent to 62.2 million standard 20-foot containers
by 2015, according to data compiled by M.M. Warburg & Co.  Handling fees charged by port operators including Hamburger
Hafen & Logistik AG and  DP World Ltd. (DPW)  may fall as new docks come
on stream, Warburg analyst Christian Cohrs said. Europe will be
hit harder than other regions as the sovereign debt crisis
weighs on economic growth, stunting demand for imported goods.  “We’ll have a capacity surplus in the short-term and as in
other industries an imbalance in supply and demand often leads
to pressure on prices,” Cohrs said by telephone from Hamburg.
“The relevant players are now bargaining for volumes.”  Like shipping lines, the world’s port operators made huge
investments in terminals prior to the credit crisis and
subsequent global slump at a time when container volumes were
growing faster than 10 percent a year.  Container  throughput  is likely to increase only 6.4 percent
this year and 7.5 percent in 2013, according to research from
 DNB ASA (DNB) , the No. 2 ship financier, and Paris-based consultant
Alphaliner. European demand may be slacker still, with Hamburger
Hafen forecasting volumes in the north of the region will
increase no more than 2 percent in 2012.  Volumes Slowing  “I’m convinced port-capacity growth will exceed container-
volume growth in coming years,” said Rico Luman, an economist
at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “Given the current recession in
different European countries this effect has probably been
strengthened. All major terminal projects were decided even
before the economic turmoil of 2008 and volumes have now slowed
again compared to the initial forecasts for 2020.”  Among shippers, an oversupply of vessels led to a price war
on routes between Asia and Europe, which compounded by soaring
fuel costs caused losses last year at major lines including  A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  of Copenhagen, Hamburg-based Hapag-Lloyd AG
and  France ’s CMA CGM SA. They’ve since raised rates in an
attempt to restore profitability.  ‘Fierce Competition’  While  Hamburger Hafen  expanded faster than most rivals last
year, increasing its share of the north European market almost 2
percentage points to 19.3 percent, container-volume  growth may
slow  to 5 percent in 2012 from 21 percent in 2011, the company,
whose  stock  has gained 7.3 percent this year, said March 30.  “Fierce competition in handling and transport services
looks set to shape HHLA’s market environment in 2012,” it said.
“As volume trends are expected to prove modest, surplus
handling capacity can also be anticipated in northern Europe.
This will place corresponding pressure on earnings potential.”  In the worst-case scenario of an escalating debt crisis,
increased instability in the financial sector, delayed dredging
of the River Elbe and “ruinous” price competition, sales may
even fall this year and margins shrink, Hamburger Hafen said.  The company, which handles almost 80 percent of boxes moved
via  Hamburg , Europe’s second-largest container harbor, posted
earnings before interest and tax equal to 17 percent of sales
last year, according to its  annual report , down from 18 percent
in 2010 and almost 27 percent in 2008.  Hamburger Hafen dropped  as much as 16 cents, or 0.7
percent, to 24.37 euros and traded 0.3 percent lower as of 3:54
p.m. in  Frankfurt .  Growth Plans  Rotterdam, Europe’s largest port, is developing the
 Maasvlakte 2  dock to add capacity of 4.9 million containers by
2015, according to Warburg’s Cohrs. Dubai-based DP World, the
No. 3 port operator, and Maersk’s APM Terminals are involved in
projects at the site, which is being constructed by dumping 240
million cubic meters of sand on the seabed, protected against
the ocean by 20,000 concrete blocks and 7 million tons of rock.  DP World also operates terminals in Antwerp,  Belgium , Le
Havre in France and Southampton,  England , and is spending 1.5
billion pounds ($2.4 billion) on the new  London Gateway  port.  The Gulf company, whose stock has advanced almost 16
percent this year, is in “detailed negotiations” with shipping
lines before the first phase opens next year with three berths
and a capacity for 1.6 million boxes, spokesman Xavier Woodward
said. Three more bays will be added “in line with market
demand” to take capacity to 3.5 million boxes, he added.  Some 190 miles northeast of Rotterdam, Eurogate GmbH is
building the JadeWeserPort deep-water terminal in Wilhelmshaven,
 Germany , which opens in August and will be able to handle 2.7
million boxes. APM owns 30 percent of the operating company.  Larger Vessels  Eurogate  is also expanding capacity at its Hamburg terminal
by one-third to 6 million boxes, and Hamburger Hafen is lifting
capacity to 12 million units. All told, the city of Hamburg
reckons its port volumes will triple to 25 million boxes by 2025
after it dredges the Elbe’s navigation channel to allow larger
vessels in and builds a new terminal at Steinwerder.  ING’s Luman said that even in the longer term the jump in
north-European capacity, which Warburg estimates at more than 35
percent to 70 million boxes by 2020, may not be taken up, and
that ports from  Le Havre  to Hamburg will struggle to reach the
60 percent level of utilization required for breakeven.  “I think overcapacity will continue beyond 2020,” he
said. “Competition among terminals will be stronger, hurting
prices, and they’ll be challenged to keep flow rates above this
level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  