-- Nine Women in Secret Service Scandal Were Paid, King Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-05-02T19:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/nine-women-in-secret-service-scandal-were-paid-king-says-2-.html
U.S. Secret Service employees paid
nine prostitutes for their services while in Colombia last month
preparing for President  Barack Obama ’s arrival, said
Representative  Peter King , chairman of the House Homeland
Security Committee.  King, a  New York  Republican, said in an interview that
information about the payments was provided to him yesterday by
the Secret Service.  Nine Secret Service employees have either left the agency
or are in the process of being dismissed as a result of the
allegations. Agency employees were in Cartagena, Colombia,
preparing for a summit. The episode, under investigation by the
Secret Service and lawmakers, has sparked the agency’s worst
crisis outside of an assassination.  Three Secret Service employees suspected of hiring
prostitutes while in Colombia declined to take polygraph tests
and are among those who have left the agency, King said.  The Secret Service said it is only aware of one earlier
case involving allegations employees hired prostitutes, King
said. An agency uniformed officer had an encounter “several
years ago” with a prostitute in  Washington , D.C., and was
dismissed, the lawmaker said. King said he didn’t know if the
officer was on duty.  Ed Donovan, a Secret Service spokesman, declined to
comment.  El Salvador Report  The Secret Service has been unable to confirm a report by
KIRO-TV in  Seattle  saying that agents last year in El Salvador
paid for sexual favors as they prepared security for an Obama
visit, King said.  Ten of 12 prostitutes suspected of being involved in the
Colombia incident have been interviewed, King said. The Secret
Service and Colombian authorities are trying to track down the
other two, he said.  There is no indication the women involved in the incident
were associated with terror groups or governments seeking to
obtain information from Secret Service employees, King said.  The agency has been conducting interviews with Secret
Service employees in Colombia at the time of the incident, he
said. About 40 or 50 of the 175 employees remain to be
interviewed.  The Secret Service needs to rebuild confidence in the
agency, said  Dan Coats  of  Indiana , the top Republican on the
Senate Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee.  “It had a sterling reputation,” he said in an interview.
“It’s tarnished now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  