-- Nokia Sues HTC, RIM and ViewSonic Over Mobile Phones
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-05-02T19:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/nokia-sues-htc-rim-and-viewsonic-over-mobile-phones.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK)  said it filed patent-
infringement lawsuits against  HTC (2498)  Corp.,  Research in Motion Ltd. 
and ViewSonic Corp. in the U.S. and Germany over inventions in
mobile devices including phones and tablets.  One complaint was filed against HTC at the U.S.
International Trade Commission in  Washington , which has the
power to block imports of products that infringe U.S. patents.
HTC and ViewSonic were sued in federal court in Wilmington,
 Delaware , while all three companies were named in German
lawsuits. Nokia said in a statement it claims infringement of 45
patents in all.  Nokia, which lost its 14-year title as world’s biggest
seller of  mobile phones  last year to Samsung Electronics Co., is
trying to expand revenue from its patent portfolio. The
company’s royalty income is on pace to reach 500 million euros
($658 million) a year, Chief Financial Officer Timo Ihamuotila
said last month.  Six of the patents asserted in the new round of litigation
were also part of a global fight Nokia waged with iPhone maker
 Apple Inc., (AAPL)  said Mark Durrant, a spokesman for Nokia. The two
companies settled their dispute a year ago, with Apple agreeing
to a one-time payment and royalties.  The patents in the new round of litigation cover hardware
inventions for dual-function antennas, power management and
multimode radios, and software features including application
stores, multitasking, navigation, conversational message
display, dynamic menus, data encryption and retrieval of e-mail
attachments on a mobile device.  ‘Unauthorized Use’  “Many of these inventions are fundamental to Nokia
products,” Louise Pentland, chief legal officer at Espoo,
Finland-based Nokia, said in the statement. “Though we’d prefer
to avoid litigation, Nokia had to file these actions to end the
unauthorized use of our proprietary innovations and
technologies, which have not been widely licensed.”  Nokia has linked up with Microsoft Corp. to make Lumia
smartphones that run on the Windows Phone platform, which
competes with Google Inc.’s Android operating system. HTC, based
in Taoyuan,  Taiwan , makes phones for both Android and Windows
Phone. The suits in Delaware target the HTC Flyer tablet and a
range of smartphones including the HTC Sensation 4G, Vivid, and
Inspire 4G.  Nokia and HTC have been partners in fighting patent-
infringement claims by IPCom GmbH, a licensing company that
obtained mobile-phone patents from  Robert Bosch GmbH  in 2007.  3G, Wi-Fi  HTC said it has licensed Nokia patents that relate to
industry standards on wireless technology since 2003.  “We are waiting to receive a complaint and won’t have any
comments until our legal team has received and reviewed it,”
the company said in a statement. In its own statement, ViewSonic
said it was aware of the legal action and “we are taking
appropriate measures to protect our interests.”  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, developed its own
operating system for its BlackBerry phones. Marisa Conway, a
spokeswoman for RIM, said the company doesn’t comment on
litigation.  ViewSonic, based in Walnut,  California , makes tablet
computers that run on Android. In the case against ViewSonic in
Mannheim,  Germany , Nokia claims infringement of four patents
that relate to industry standards on 3G and Wi-Fi technology,
Durrant said. None of the others are for inventions that are
essential components of standards, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  