-- Novartis to Buy Fougera for $1.5 Billion for Skin Drugs
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-05-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/novartis-to-buy-fougera-for-1-5-billion-for-skin-drugs.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ,  Europe ’s largest
drugmaker, said it will spend $1.5 billion for closely held
Fougera Pharmaceuticals Inc. in a deal to become the top seller
of generic skin medications.  Fougera , based in Melville, New York, had sales of about
$429 million in 2011 and is owned by private equity funds,
including  Nordic Capital , Avista  Capital Partners  and DLJ
Merchant Banking, a subsidiary of Credit Suisse Group AG, the
companies said yesterday in a statement. The all-cash
acquisition will make Sandoz, the generic drug unit of Novartis,
the global leader in generic dermatology medicines with an
estimated revenue of $620 million, the companies said.  Novartis faces the loss of revenue as its top-selling drug,
Diovan for  blood pressure , meets generic competition this year.
The Basel, Switzerland-based company  bought  the Alcon eye-care
business and has introduced therapies to offset the loss.  “They need to make up revenue” lost from competition for
Diovan, said  Les Funtleyder , portfolio manager for the Miller
Tabak Healthcare Transformation Fund, who owns Novartis shares.
“Certainly generic pharmaceuticals is a very good way, in these
cost-conscious times, to make up revenue.”  The U.S. market for generic dermatology drugs is about $2.1
billion, Novartis estimated in its statement.  Generic medicines like the specialty creams and ointments
made by Fougera often require human clinical trials for
regulatory approval, said Jeff George, head of the Sandoz unit.
That means the products face less competition than copycat
pills, he said.  ‘Difficult to Make’  “The dermatologics are really difficult to make and we
didn’t have the expertise in-house,” George said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  Sandoz generated $9.47 billion in 2011  revenue , about 16
percent of sales for Novartis, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Fougera “is a pretty profitable company” as a result of
its competitive advantages, George said. The company makes 45
generic  products  and 17 branded ones, primarily sold in the
U.S., aimed at common conditions, including acne, eczema and
genital warts. Novartis will try to expand sales of the products
overseas, he said.  “That does help offset the patent cliff of Diovan,”
George said.  Novartis will pay a multiple of about 8.8 times Fougera’s
2011 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the transaction, the drugmaker said in its
statement. The sale is expected to close in the second half of
2012, the companies said.  “Fougera and Sandoz serve many of the same customers in
the U.S., creating significant sales and cost synergies with
Sandoz’s sizable U.S. generics business,” Don DeGolyer,
president of Sandoz U.S., said in the statement.  Jefferies Group Inc. advised Novartis on the deal. Fougera
was advised by Rothschild and Credit Suisse.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  