-- Novartis Drug for Smoker’s Cough Boosts Lung Function in Study
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-05-02T10:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/novartis-drug-for-smoker-s-cough-boosts-lung-function-in-study.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s experimental drug for
smoker’s cough helped patients in a late-stage trial, and was at
least as good as a treatment sold by Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH
and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)   In a trial among 1,066 people, those receiving a daily dose
of Novartis’s drug, known as NVA237, over 12 weeks were able to
expel significantly more air from their lungs in one second than
those who got a placebo, and more than those taking Boehringer
and Pfizer’s Spiriva. The results were published in a  summary  of
data scheduled to be presented at a conference this month.  The inhaled drug, which Novartis licensed from  Vectura
Group Plc (VEC)  in 2005, may garner sales of $400 million if approved,
 Alistair Campbell , an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London , wrote
in a note today. Novartis applied for regulatory approval for
the drug in Europe under the brand name Seebri Breezhaler.
Approval in the U.S. will be delayed after regulators asked for
more information, the company has said.  “Even ignoring the U.S. market, NVA looks like a good mid-
sized opportunity for Novartis,” Campbell wrote.  Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis is also testing NVA237 as
part of a two-drug combination called QVA149 that may achieve
sales of $905 million in 2018, according to the average of three
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  In the so-called GLOW2 trial, patients taking NVA237 were
able to expel an average of 97 milliliters more air in one
second than those on placebo. Those taking Spiriva expelled 83
milliliters more. After a year, patients on NVA237 expelled an
average of 108 milliliters more than the placebo group, compared
with 89 milliliters for those on Spiriva.  The company said in June that the trial had shown NVA237
was superior to placebo, without giving details. The data will
be presented at the American Thoracic Society in  San Francisco 
on May 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  