-- NYC Tax Revenue Projected at $352 Million Below Earlier Estimate
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-02T20:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/nyc-tax-revenue-projected-at-352-million-below-earlier-estimate.html
New York will receive $352 million
less in  tax revenue  than Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  anticipated in
his $68.7 billion preliminary budget for fiscal 2013, mostly
because of lower revenue from  Wall Street , his office said.  The administration also said costs for social services will
increase by $143 million, creating a $495 million gap for the
fiscal year beginning July 1. Bloomberg intends to present a
revised version of his February spending plan tomorrow. It is
subject to City Council review and approval.  The shortfall will be mostly offset by $466 million from a
legal settlement with Science Applications International Corp.
over alleged fraud in a contract to install the CityTime payroll
system, the mayor’s office said today in a statement  The less-than-expected revenue and increased cost
projections mean that the settlement in March won’t provide a
revenue windfall to restore school funding, day-care programs,
library services and other cuts the mayor included in his
February plan.  “ New York  City has the strongest social-safety net in
country, and those costs continue to rise as many families need
help, and we’re going to make sure that New York remains first
in the nation with a helping hand,” said  Stu Loeser , the
mayor’s spokesman, in the e-mail.  The mayor’s office said that the reduced forecast of Wall
Street revenue was offset in part by growth in tourism, film and
television production, education and technology.  “The mayor has spent the last decade diversifying the
city’s economy because the financial markets will always have
ups and downs,” Loeser said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  