-- Obama’s Afghan Partnership Puts Symbolism Over Substance
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-02T21:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/obama-s-afghan-partnership-puts-symbolism-over-substance.html
Perhaps the biggest surprise of
President  Barack Obama ’s appearance in Kabul, Afghanistan, on
Tuesday wasn’t the trip itself, but his use of the occasion to
make a head-scratching speech and sign a  strategic partnership
accord  that raises more questions than it answers.  “Over the last three years, the tide has turned,” the
president said. “We broke the Taliban’s momentum.” This
triumphant note jars against a Pentagon  report  released this
week, which warned that “the insurgency remains a resilient and
determined enemy and will likely attempt to regain lost ground
and influence this spring and summer.”  Obama can be forgiven for wanting to put the best spin on
the situation to Americans, but the Afghans present were
probably not convinced about the tide’s turning.  Civilian
casualties  have risen in the last year, and within hours of
Obama’s departure, a suicide attack in Kabul killed at least
seven. The most important audience might have been the U.S.’s
allies in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, who needed to
be assured of the White House’s intentions in Afghanistan before
a NATO  summit meeting  this month in  Chicago .  Which brings us to the ostensible reason for Obama’s trip,
the agreement with Afghan President  Hamid Karzai , a “legally
binding executive agreement, which does not require it to be
submitted to the Senate” for approval,  according to  White House
spokesman Tommy Vietor. What it will require from Congress,
however, is annual funding of an unspecified amount to support
Afghan security forces after the withdrawal of U.S. combat
troops in 2014 -- shaky ground on which to base an important
national security priority. Congress is easily distracted, the
Treasury will be stretched thin for years to come, and the U.S.
annual contribution will run to  the billions , not hundreds of
millions, of dollars.  What that money will pay for is unclear -- the agreement
has no specifics in terms of Afghan troop strength or the pace
of the drawdown of U.S. troops. On the latter, we urge
expediency: Almost all American combat troops should be brought
home as quickly as commanders in the field say is practical and
safe, probably sometime in 2013.  Paradoxically, Afghan security forces -- projected to reach
 352,000  by the end of the year -- also need to be cut back. The
current plan is overambitious and risks creating what security
expert  Anthony Cordesman   calls  a “hollow force” with inadequate
financing and training. The Afghan defense minister, General
Abdul Rahim Wardak, has suggested a more realistic  230,000
personnel . Money and training should be focused on the Afghan
army rather than the police and other security organizations,
which have proved ineffective and corrupt.  This scaling back means that the central government will
still have little control over much of the southern and eastern
part of the country. With the help of remaining U.S. advisers,
it will have to perform a balancing act with local ethnic and
tribal leaders, independent militias and insurgent groups to
keep the country from collapsing. That’s hardly ideal, but far
preferable to a never-ending U.S. military presence or seeing
the Taliban return to Kabul.  Afghanistan  has never really had a
strong central government, and attempting to build one has been
one of the great errors of the last decade.  The partnership agreement’s expansive provisions on social
and economic development are likewise vague and wishful. For
starters, getting countries to follow through on their pledges
of aid has always been a challenge. According to one  assessment ,
only 43 percent of the $62 billion promised by donors to
Afghanistan since 2002 has been disbursed. Rampant corruption
has claimed a lot of that money, and the Afghan government’s
commitment to fighting it has what the Pentagon  describes as 
“minimal political support.”  In light of that dismal track record, we find it remarkable
that the agreement reiterates a commitment to channel “at least
50 percent” of assistance -- one of the pact’s few specific
numbers -- through the central government. We would argue
instead for making more “on-budget” assistance conditional on
progress against corruption, and in the meantime channeling as
much aid as possible to those outside Kabul with a demonstrated
track record of using such money effectively.  We recognize the symbolic importance of a strong U.S.
commitment to Afghanistan’s future. The lack of detail in this
“Enduring Strategic Partnership Agreement,” however, suggests
that it will be anything but. As the clock ticks toward 2014,
the Afghan people would be best served if the U.S. and its
allies focused more on what works, instead of what just looks
good.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 