-- OCI Rises on Speculation Solar Oversupply May Ease: Seoul Mover
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-05-02T06:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/oci-rises-on-speculation-solar-oversupply-may-ease-seoul-mover.html
OCI Co. (010060) , South Korea’s biggest maker
of polysilicon for solar cells, rallied the most in 16 weeks in
Seoul trading on speculation industry oversupply may ease and
governments may aid the market.  OCI  jumped  9.1 percent to 233,500 won at the close on the
Korea Exchange, the strongest gain since Jan. 12. The stock was
the  best-performer  on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  LDK Solar Co., a Chinese maker of polysilicon, wafers and
solar panels, cut 5,554 workers this year after plunging prices
reduced margins to record lows. The European Union is working on
an investment package of 200 billion euros ($265 billion) for
infrastructure, renewable energy and technology in the euro-
area’s worst-hit countries, El Pais newspaper reported.  “If  Europe ’s package that includes renewable energy is
executed, the solar industry may rebound in a big way,” Han Byung Hwa, an analyst at Hyundai Securities Co., wrote in a
report dated yesterday. LDK may cancel or delay its plan to
expand polysilicon capacity, benefiting rivals including OCI,
the analyst said.  Solar manufacturers from  China  to the U.S., such as  First
Solar Inc. (FSLR) , are under pressure because oversupply has depressed
prices. Since September, the spot price of polysilicon has
fallen by a third, wafers are 35 percent lower and silicon-based
solar panels are 25 percent cheaper, Bloomberg New Energy
Finance data shows.  Japan  will require power utilities to pay above-market
rates for electricity generated from renewable energy sources
such as solar and wind, based on recommendations announced by a
government panel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  