-- Lockheed F-22s May Need a $12 Billion Upgrade, GAO Says
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-05-02T19:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/lockheed-f-22s-may-need-a-12-billion-upgrade-gao-says.html
The U.S. Air Force plans to spend
$11.7 billion to upgrade its fleet of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s
F-22 jets, according to the U.S. Government Accountability
Office.  The cost would be on top of the $67.3 billion the Pentagon
has spent buying 188 F-22 jets, the GAO said in a report sent to
U.S. lawmakers today. The last of the F-22 jets rolled out of
Lockheed’s plant in Marietta,  Georgia , today.  U.S. purchases of the stealthy F-22 jet, which was designed
at the height of the  Cold War  to take on Soviet aircraft in
aerial dog fights, was truncated by former Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates , who favored Lockheed’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.
In the 1990s, the Air Force had planned to buy as many as 648
jets.  The projected cost of making improvements to the F-22 fleet
have “more than doubled” since 2003, when the first estimates
were made and the schedule to upgrade the jets has “slipped by
nearly seven years” to 2017, the GAO said in the report.  The jets began corroding soon after they were introduced
into the  Air Force  in 2005 and the entire fleet was grounded in
2011 because of problems with an on-board oxygen system that
caused pilots to become dizzy. The necessary repairs and
ballooning maintenance costs led U.S. Senator  John McCain , an
Republican, to call the plane an “expensive, corroding hangar
queen.”  Captain Jeff Haney, 31, died when his F-22 crashed in
Alaska in November 2010. His widow, Anna Haney, has filed a
wrongful-death lawsuit against Lockheed and its subcontractors,
the Los Angeles Times reported March 20.  Underestimated Magnitude  Air Force officials told the GAO that “they underestimated
the sheer magnitude of the modernization effort, both in the
amount of time required to develop and integrate the capability,
and costs to complete the modernization,” according to the GAO.  The additional costs will go toward improving radar
capabilities, electronic communications, ground target
identification systems, new missiles such as AIM-9X, and
structural repairs  Operational F-22s are based at Langley Air Force Base,
 Virginia ; Elmendorf Air Force Base, Alaska; Holloman Air Force
Base, New Mexico, and Hickam Air Force Base, Hawaii.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  