-- Hodgson Unaware as West Brom Boss Kept England Job Offer Secret
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-02T01:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/hodgson-unaware-as-west-brom-boss-kept-england-job-offer-secret.html
Only one person outside English
soccer’s governing body knew  Roy Hodgson  would be asked to coach
the national team, and it wasn’t the 64-year-old West Bromwich
Albion manager.  Football Association Chairman  David Bernstein  and his three
colleagues on the selection panel decided on Hodgson about a
month ago even as bookmakers rated Tottenham’s  Harry Redknapp  as
the favorite. The F.A. got in touch with West Brom Chairman
Jeremy Peace, who requested Hodgson not be contacted until after
his team’s April 28 Premier League game against  Aston Villa .  “They said they didn’t want us to approach Roy until after
the Villa match,” Bernstein said yesterday after Hodgson signed
a four-year contract. “If we’d gone to them earlier, we’d have
had a different response.”  Peace, a former broker, kept the secret for about a week
before Bernstein called Hodgson at 2 p.m. on April 29 to tell
him that he was the only candidate to become  England  manager,
F.A. general secretary Alex Horne said. Redknapp was still the
bookmakers’ favorite two days ago to replace Fabio Capello after
the Italian quit following a dispute in February.  Peace said Hodgson will oversee West Brom’s final two
Premier League games before being released early from his
contract to allow him to prepare England for the European
Championship, which starts June 8.  “We did not want Roy to leave,” Peace said in a
statement. “I would like to thank David Bernstein for the
sensitive and professional manner in which he has liaised with
me in bringing about Roy’s appointment.”  English Candidate  Two of the past three permanent England managers came from
outside the country, and there was pressure to appoint an
English candidate. Hodgson is the only English coach in the
Premier League to have won manager of the year, an honor he
picked up after leading Fulham to the 2010 Europa League final.  His appointment to one of the most high-profile jobs in
world soccer surprised bookmakers and U.K. media, who had
speculated that Redknapp would be hired. Last month,  William
Hill Plc (WMH)  was offering 1-4 odds on Redknapp getting the job,
meaning a successful bet of $4 would return $1. Hodgson was a
14-1 outsider.  “It’s one of the most important decisions a chairman and
board can make, the appointment of a manager, and I won’t have
too many stabs at this,” said Bernstein, who was flanked by
Horne and Hodgson as well as Adrian Bevington and Trevor Brooking, the two other members of the recruitment panel. “We
all stand and fall together on this. There were easier
appointments.”  Unwitting Rivals  Hodgson, who has six weeks to prepare England for Euro
2012, where it meets France, Sweden and co-host Ukraine in the
group stage, said he hoped his friendship with Redknapp wouldn’t
be affected. Redknapp, he said, had left a voicemail
congratulating him.  “We’ve unwittingly become rivals,” Hodgson said.  Bernstein said Hodgson’s previous international management
experience made him the “outstanding candidate.” The much-
traveled coach guided  Switzerland  to the 1994  World Cup 
tournament and a team-high ranking of third in the world, before
coaching the United Arab Emirates and Finland.  He’s also led championship teams in Sweden and Denmark,
though had a less successful six-month spell at Liverpool, which
ended in January 2011 and included the 18-time English
champion’s worst start to a season since 1953 and a poor
relationship with supporters.  ‘Another Planet’  Hodgson said he acknowledged there were parallels between
his England appointment and the one at Liverpool, where fans had
chanted current coach  Kenny Dalglish ’s name while Hodgson sat in
the dugout at Anfield. Redknapp was the popular choice to lead
England and had the support of players including striker  Wayne Rooney  and former captain  Rio Ferdinand .  “I’d have to be on another planet not to be aware of that
situation,” Hodgson said. “There is one major difference
between my time at Liverpool and being offered the job as
England manager. The people at Liverpool who appointed me didn’t
have a chance to stay very long and others took over the club.
The F.A. had a lot of time to decide which candidate they wanted
to do the job, and I’m happy it was me.”  Hodgson said a 23-man squad for Euro 2012 would be selected
after the last round of Premier League games on May 13. Interim
coach  Stuart Pearce  had said the roster would be announced May
10. England has warm-ups against  Norway  on May 26 and  Belgium  a
week later before opening its Euro 2012 campaign June 11 against
 France .  England hasn’t won a major tournament since its sole
triumph in 1966, when it lifted the World Cup as host. William
Hill rates it the fourth favorite behind defending champion
 Spain , record three-time winner  Germany  and the Netherlands.  “One is tempted to say, because it’s England, that success
is only reaching the latter stages, even tempted to say the only
success is winning,” Hodgson said. “But I’d like people to cut
us a bit of slack in that respect. The resignation of Fabio
Capello has made the situation somewhat different. I’m only
going to have been here a short period of time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  