-- Oil Extends Biggest Drop in Two Weeks on Jobs, Supplies
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-05-03T12:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/oil-fluctuates-after-biggest-drop-in-two-weeks-on-stockpile-gain.html
Oil fell, extending the biggest
decline in two weeks, as worse-than-forecast employment data
underscored weakness in the global economy and U.S. crude
stockpiles increased to the highest level in 21 years.  Futures slipped as much as 0.5 percent in  New York  after
falling 0.9 percent yesterday, when data showed U.S. employers
added fewer jobs than predicted last month while unemployment in
 Germany  unexpectedly increased.  Crude supplies  in the U.S., the
world’s biggest consumer of the commodity, rose to the most
since September 1990, according to the Energy Information
Administration. Oil pared losses after a report today showed
U.S. jobless claims fell more than forecast last week.  “We are still suffering from yesterday’s data,” Gerrit Zambo, an oil trader at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich, said in
a telephone interview. “Unemployment numbers from  Europe  were
very disappointing and the U.S. job numbers did their part in
bringing  oil prices  down. The supply-demand situation is quite
stable at the moment.”  Crude for June delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
fell as much as 56 cents to $104.66 a barrel and was at $105.02
at 1:53 p.m. London time. The contract yesterday slid 94 cents,
the most since April 18, to $105.22. Front-month oil has risen
6.3 percent this year.  Brent oil for June settlement was at $117.84 a barrel, down
36 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate
was at $12.82 a barrel. The spread ended yesterday at $12.98,
the lowest closing level in more than three months.  U.S. Stockpiles  “Interesting to see that the Brent-WTI spread narrowed
overnight given that Cushing stocks increased to fresh record
highs,” said Richard Gorry, an analyst with JBC Energy GmbH in
 Singapore . “It has been our view for some time, that as we see
more pipeline capacity coming online from Cushing to the U.S.
Gulf Coast, the spread will come under substantial pressure.”  U.S. crude stockpiles rose  2.8 million barrels  last week to
375.9 million, the EIA report showed. They were forecast to
climb 2.5 million barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
the New York oil contract, rose 1.21 million barrels to a record
43 million, the report showed. Stockpiles at the hub have
climbed 13 of the last 15 weeks.  The oil market showed “slight loosening” last quarter
though it’s too early to be sure that supply conditions have
improved, IEA Executive Director Maria van der Hoeven said
today. The IEA, an adviser to 28 industrialized nations that has
at times coordinated the release of emergency stockpiles, is
ready to act again if a major disruption occurs, she said at
International Oil Summit in Paris today.  One-Time ‘Bullet’  “You can only use a bullet once,” Van der Hoeven said,
referring to the use of emergency stockpiles. “We are
particularly concerned about the high level of supply outages.”  IEA member countries released 60 million barrels of crude
and oil products last June after Libyan output was disrupted by
an armed uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi . Brent crude prices
peaked last year at about $127 a barrel in mid-April and briefly
fell below $105 in late June.  OPEC Secretary-General Abdalla el-Badri said at the same
conference that there is no shortage of oil in the market, and
that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is
concerned that current high oil prices may lead to demand
destruction.  No $100 Floor  Oil prices will have to stay above $100 a barrel to make
production from shale formations and the Arctic worthwhile, said
Christophe de Margerie, chairman and chief executive officer of
Total SA, Europe’s third-largest oil producer.  “I don’t think this is a floor,” he told delegates at the
Paris oil summit. “The costs of producing those reserves will
probably be at a price higher than $100.”  Private employment in the U.S. increased by 119,000 in
April, the smallest gain in seven months, after rising by
201,000 in March, ADP Employer Services said yesterday. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called
for an increase of 170,000.  Initial jobless claims fell by 27,000 to 365,000 in the
week ended April 28, a one-month low, the Labor Department said
today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey was for 379,000
applications.  German  unemployment  unexpectedly rose in April. The number
of people out of work grew by a seasonally adjusted 19,000 to
2.87 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency said.
Economists had forecast a decline of 10,000.  New Zealand ’s
jobless rate climbed to the highest level since 2010.  ‘Disappointing Data’  “Disappointing economic data from Europe and the U.S.
suggested a potential slowdown in the recovery process,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Melbourne, said in a note today. “U.S.
crude prices didn’t respond as bearishly as we would have
expected to the additional negative data that showed yet another
rise in EIA crude stocks, perhaps already having priced in a
softer demand outlook a couple weeks ago.”  Technical indicators showed investors may be unsure of the
direction for short-term prices. Futures yesterday traded within
the previous day’s range, creating a consolidation pattern known
as an “inside day,” according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Crude has technical support along the middle Bollinger Band,
around $103.36 a barrel today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  