-- Hollande Envoys Said to Brief ECB Officials on His Economic Plan
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-05-02T15:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/hollande-envoys-said-to-brief-ecb-officials-on-his-economic-plan.html
Aides to French Socialist presidential
candidate  Francois Hollande  have had contacts with top European
Central Bank officials to brief monetary policy makers on his
economic plans, four advisers to Hollande said.  Hollande’s team has spoken to at least two members of the
ECB’s executive board, said the advisers, who declined to be
named because the discussions were confidential. An ECB
spokeswoman denied any such contacts have taken place. She spoke
on condition of anonymity, in line with ECB policy.  The meetings and telephone conversations, which began last
year and have carried on as Hollande’s campaign progressed,
underscore concern that a change in government in Europe’s
second-largest economy risks upsetting efforts to quell the
region’s financial crisis.  “Given the complexity of Europe’s problems, I would hate
for a new government to come into a political vacuum,” said
 David Owen , chief European economist at Jefferies Securities
International in  London . “It’s reassuring.”  The Socialist leads in polls for the May 6 runoff after
winning the first-round vote. A BVA survey published today gave
him an advantage of 53.5 percent to 46.5 percent over incumbent
President  Nicolas Sarkozy . No margin of error was given.  Both candidates made the ECB a campaign issue. Hollande has
called on the ECB to lend directly to governments and Sarkozy
wants to expand the Frankfurt-based bank’s mandate to including
spurring growth and not just controlling inflation. Germany
opposes both proposals.  French Spread  France was stripped of its AAA credit rating in January by
 Standard & Poor’s  and the premium it pays to borrow over  Germany 
is about 135 basis points, compared with about 30 basis points a
year ago.  With French jobless claims at a 12-year high, Hollande has
called for the region’s budget pact to be re-negotiated to
include plans on growth. He has said that his government won’t
ratify the treaty agreed by 25 European Union countries last
March in its current form.  While both ECB President  Mario Draghi  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said last week that they’re amenable to adding
commitments to growth to the accord, their definition is
unlikely to be the same as Hollande’s.  “It’s not the same idea of growth,” Hollande said April
26. Draghi is “adding even stronger competition, liberalization
and privatization.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  