-- Two U.S. Agencies Object to Obama Proposal to Ease Gun Exports
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-05-03T04:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/homeland-security-objects-to-obama-s-plan-for-eased-gun-exports.html
The  Homeland Security  and Justice
departments are objecting to an Obama administration proposal
that would relax restrictions on gun exports, saying it would
make it easier for terrorists to acquire weapons.  In an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News, the
Department of  Homeland Security  said officials should rethink a
plan to transfer responsibility for monitoring shipments of some
guns and ammunition to the Commerce Department from the State
Department.  The changes may provide “an extremely attractive loophole
that could allow nefarious actors to obtain these newly
transferred” weapons, the department said in the undated seven-
page memo. And it may “put U.S. military,  law enforcement  or
civilian personnel at increased risk.”  The changes would undercut Homeland Security’s ability to
deter illegal exports to criminal groups, terrorist
organizations or enemy combatants, it said in the memo, which
was provided by a government official who asked not to be
identified because it’s an internal document. The Wall Street
Journal reported the development earlier.  The President  Barack Obama ’s administration began an effort
in 2009 to trim restrictions on the export of items with
military uses, and officials have been working through lists to
determine what can be eliminated. Former Defense Secretary
Robert Gates and former Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, who
together championed the effort, said the goal was to erect
higher barriers around fewer items.  Divided Responsibilities  The State Department administers restrictions on military
items, and the Commerce Department does so for so-called dual-
use civilian goods such as radar equipment or advanced
computers, which also have military uses.  Under a proposal being deliberated within the
administration, restrictions on the export of most guns that
aren’t automatic weapons would be shifted to the dual-use
category, Lawrence Keane, senior vice president of the National
Shooting Sports Foundation in Newtown,  Connecticut , said in an
interview.  The current system adds delays in exports because the State
Department is required to notify Congress of sales at least $1
million. That effectively blocks U.S. manufacturers from selling
to foreign militaries or police departments, Keane said.  U.S. Loses  “Our industry totally supports the White House efforts on
this,” Keane said. “The U.S. loses out to European and Israeli
competitors who aren’t forced to deal with these delays.”  U.S. arms and ammunition exports were $4.7 billion in 2011,
according to Commerce Department data.  In a separate memo, the Justice Department also raised
concerns about transferring control of arms and ammunition to
the Commerce Department.  “The  Department of Justice  is willing to accommodate those
policy judgments, but, as we have expressed, any transfers must
preserve critical controls and enforcement tools,” according to
the memo, dated March 12.  The memos say the administration has already adjusted
previous proposals to deal with complaints from Homeland
Security and Justice. It might not allow the sale of guns and
ammunition to the 36 so-called trusted allies, which includes
 Italy ,  Romania ,  Norway  and  South Korea , without approval from
Commerce, the memos say.  Lawmaker Concerns  Even with those changes, both departments expressed
misgivings.  Disagreements are sometimes part of the rule-making
process, said Matthew Chandler, a Department of Homeland
Security spokesman.  “DHS strongly supports the President’s Export Control
Reform Initiative,” he said. “We are confident that consensus
will be reached.”  Dean Boyd, a  Justice Department  spokesman, declined to
comment.  U.S. lawmakers are also concerned.  “I want to look at it to make sure it’s not going to
interfere at all with our attempts to go after the drug
cartels,” House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Peter King, a  New York  Republican, said in an interview.  Ammunition and firearms are just one part of that effort.
The State Department’s munitions list captures everyday items
such as hoses, wires or brake pads, which may have been designed
for a military system and now are widely available and primarily
civilian in nature.  “It’s very hard to make that case that moving items from
one list to the other leads to weaker controls,”  William Reinsch , president of the National Foreign Trade Council in
 Washington , which represents exporters such as  Boeing Co. (BA) , said
in an interview. “There is going to be a change in the legal
status, but there is not going to be a change in the functional
status of how these are handled.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  