-- Lone Star Sues Korea Exchange Bank Over $49 Million Bill
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-05-02T23:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/lone-star-sues-korea-exchange-bank-over-49-million-bill.html
Lone Star  Funds, whose investment in
Korea Exchange Bank earned it at least $4 billion, claimed in a
lawsuit that the lender alone was liable for a $49 million
compensation-related payment to Olympus Capital Holdings  Asia .  Five units of Lone Star are asking Singapore’s  High Court 
to rule that the South Korean bank should compensate them for
payments made to Olympus Capital, according to court papers
filed in the Southeast Asian city. A closed hearing on the
Dallas-based private equity firm’s request to seal the court
files on the basis that they contain confidential information is
scheduled for today.  An international arbitration tribunal in Singapore ordered
Lone Star and Korea Exchange Bank in December to pay $37.3
million compensation and another $11.7 million in legal costs to
Olympus Capital, according to the complaint. Olympus Capital, a
Hong Kong-based private equity firm, had sought compensation for
losses it incurred from the sale in 2003 of a stake it held in
 Korea Exchange Bank (004940) ’s credit card unit.  “KEB should contribute 100 percent towards the liability”
for the payment to Olympus Capital, Marjorie A. Harrigan, a
lawyer assigned to support Lone Star’s deals in Asia, said in an
April 25 court filing. The arbitration tribunal didn’t specify
the split of liability between Lone Star and Korea Exchange
Bank.  Lone Star declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Korea Exchange Bank will deal with the lawsuit according to
legal procedures, it said in an e-mail, declining to comment
further.  Legal Entanglements  Lone Star and Olympus Capital in February agreed to settle
all claims, subject to certain confidential terms and
conditions, according to the court papers. Olympus Capital isn’t
affiliated with  Olympus Corp. (7733) , the Japanese camera-maker,
according to the Hong Kong firm’s  website .  Lone Star, once the biggest foreign investor in South
Korean financial assets, exited Korea Exchange Bank in February
after completing a 3.9 trillion won ($3.5 billion) stake sale to
Seoul-based  Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)   The U.S. fund’s investment in Korea Exchange Bank, which it
won control of in October 2003 when no local lenders were
interested, has been mired in entanglements with the courts,
regulators and lawmakers. Hana had originally agreed to pay 4.7
trillion won in November 2010, before negotiating two price cuts
from Lone Star in the midst of the fund’s legal disputes.  Lone Star was ordered by South Korean regulators in
November to sell most of its stake in Korea Exchange Bank after
the firm and Paul Yoo, the former head of one of its local
units, were found guilty of manipulating the share price of the
lender’s credit card division to drive down its value.  Lone Star, which purchases distressed debt and assets
including real estate and banks, has invested $33 billion since
setting up its first fund in 1995, according to its  website .  The case is Lone Star Management Co. v Korea Exchange Bank
OS153/2012 in the  Singapore  High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  