-- Hong Kong Sells Land Below Estimates on Rising Supply
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   S h a i   O s t e r
-- 2012-05-03T03:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/hong-kong-sells-land-below-estimates-on-rising-supply.html
Hong Kong ’s  government  sold land in
one of the city’s most exclusive areas for less than analysts
estimated, underscoring developers’ concerns that increased
housing supply and slowing global growth may stall home prices.  The winning bid for the site near Repulse Bay Road, in the
Island South district, was HK$1.67 billion ($215 million), the
government said in a statement yesterday. That’s equal to
HK$39,673 a square foot, according to Centaline Property Agency
Ltd., the city’s biggest closely held realtor. The site, with a
total buildable area of 42,000 square feet, was expected to
fetch HK$1.68 billion, or HK$40,000 a square foot, according to
the median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Leung Chun-ying, who in July will take over as Hong Kong’s
new leader, has vowed to increase housing supply to quell public
discontent over a widening wealth gap in the world’s most
expensive place to buy a home. Hong Kong’s  home prices  have
gained more than 78 percent since early 2009 on record low
mortgage rates and an under-supply of new units.  “Developers and investors’ expectations have changed,”
Ringo Lam, a director in the valuation department of AG
Wilkinson & Associates, said before the tender results were
announced. “I don’t think anybody would expect prices to go up
20 to 30 percent every year like they have been for the past few
years.”  Tai Cheung Holdings Ltd., (88)  a Hong Kong-listed developer,
bought the site, Simon Lee, a director of the company, said by
phone today. A total of 10 offers were received, according to
yesterday’s government statement, which didn’t identify the
winning bid.  Wealthy Neighbors  Repulse Bay is home to some of the city’s richest people
including billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung  of  Chow Tai Fook Jewellery
Group Ltd. (1929)  and gambling tycoon  Stanley Ho .  The area has developed around the site of the former
Repulse Bay Hotel, built in 1920 and demolished in 1982, and
featured in the 1955 Hollywood romantic drama Love Is a Many-
Splendored Thing, with William Holden, and Coming Home, the 1978
film starring  Jane Fonda  and Jon Voight.  Ernest Hemingway  stayed
at the hotel in the 1940s before going to cover the war in China.
 Marlon Brando  was a guest in the 1950s.  China’s growth slowed more than forecast last quarter to
the least in almost three years, as exports and domestic demand
cooled. Gross domestic product in the world’s second-biggest
economy expanded 8.1 percent from a year earlier after an 8.9
percent gain in the fourth quarter.  Investors should avoid Hong Kong property stocks because
home prices may slow after Leung’s pledge to build more housing,
according to CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, a unit of Credit
Agricole SA. Still, prices may rise 8 percent in the next 12
months, CLSA analyst  Nicole Wong  wrote in an April 19 report.  Index Gains  The  Hang Seng Properties Index (HSP) , which tracks the city’s
seven biggest developers, fell less than 0.1 percent at 11:48
a.m. in Hong Kong. It has gained 13 percent this year, compared
with the 15 percent advance in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   Chief Executive-elect Leung said last month he doesn’t see
signs of overheating in the  property market , reassuring
investors concerned that he would introduce polices hurting
developers.  “I’m not going to bring down prices, rents artificially
through government actions,” Leung told reporters at a briefing
in the city on March 28. “Affordability will not catch up with
prices quickly.”  The government yesterday said it also sold a site in the
city’s northern Tuen Mun district for HK$180 million, to Billion
Ideal Ltd. The winning bidder can build as much as 3,608 square
meters of residential floor area on the site.  Repulse Bay  The developer of the Repulse Bay site will probably build
low-rise apartments on the site, according to AG Wilkinson’s Lam.
Prices for the units may go for about HK$44,000 a square foot in
two to three years, he said. New units in the area currently
sell for about HK$35,000 to HK$40,000, he said.  Hong Kong’s luxury  home prices  fell 2.2 percent in the
first quarter from three months earlier to HK$18,730, as
mortgage restrictions imposed by the government on properties
over HK$10 million reduced demand for those units, according to
a report by Colliers International.  Savills Plc said Hong Kong is the world’s costliest place
to buy an apartment, with prices about 55 percent higher than
 London , where the property broker is based. Moscow is 7.4
percent more expensive than London and  New York  is 15 percent
cheaper, Savills said.  Hong Kong’s new home sales jumped more than twofold in
March from a month earlier, reaching a 14-month high, according
to the  Land Registry .  To avoid the formation of an asset bubble, the government
has imposed curbs since 2010 including additional taxes on home
transactions and higher minimum mortgage down payments. At least
a third of Hong Kong’s luxury home buyers in 2011 were from
mainland  China , according to Centaline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Shai Oster in Hong Kong at 
 soster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  