-- Oracle Claims $777 Million Damages in SAP Infringement Case
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-05-02T20:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/oracle-claims-damages-of-777-million-in-sap-infringement-case.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  said it will claim
damages of $776.7 million in its retrial of a copyright-
infringement lawsuit against  SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of
business-management software.  Oracle decided in February to pursue a new trial rather
than accept U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton’s reduction of
a 2010 jury verdict the company won from $1.3 billion to
$272 million. The retrial is scheduled for June 18 in Oakland,
California.  Oracle said in a court filing that it has a right to pursue
actual damages measured by the “fair market value of the rights
infringed.” To do so, the company has asked Hamilton, to let it
present evidence of a “hypothetical license” that would
establish that value. If not, Oracle said, it will pursue
damages based on $656 million in SAP’s profits and $120.7
million in Oracle’s lost profits, according to the April 26
filing.  Oracle said its damages claim will be supported at trial by
an “updated analysis and additional evidence to support the
infringers’ profits and lost profit amounts.”  “We think Oracle’s damage estimate is overstated,” Jim
Dever, a spokesman for Walldorf, Germany-based SAP, said in an
e-mail. SAP estimates damages at $28 million, he said.  Downloaded and Copied  Oracle, based in  Redwood City ,  California ,  sued  in 2007
after discovering that SAP’s software-maintenance unit had
downloaded and copied its software. SAP didn’t contest that it
was liable for the infringement by its TomorrowNow unit, which
the company closed in 2008.  The jury award of $1.3 billion was based on the value of a
hypothetical license that SAP would have needed to use Oracle’s
software. Hamilton threw out the verdict, calling it “grossly
excessive” and not supported by the evidence.  TomorrowNow pleaded guilty in September to U.S. charges of
unauthorized computer access and SAP paid the unit’s
$20 million fine.  The civil case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-1658, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  