-- Morgan Stanley's Fleming Is Said to Lure Heaton for Wealth Unit
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-05-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/morgan-stanley-s-fleming-is-said-to-lure-heaton-for-wealth-unit.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  hired Eric Heaton,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s head of investment banking for financial
services companies in the Americas, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Heaton will join Morgan Stanley’s wealth management
business in a senior role, according to the person, who declined
to be identified because the company hasn’t publicly announced
the hiring. John Gallagher, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank, declined to comment. So did Christy Pollak, a
spokeswoman for New York-based Morgan Stanley.  During his three years at Deutsche Bank, Heaton helped the
German lender break into the top ranks of the investment-banking
business in the U.S. Deutsche Bank was the fifth-largest adviser
on mergers and acquisitions of financial companies in the
Americas during the past 12 months, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares with a ranking of 44th in 2008.  Heaton’s team at Deutsche Bank worked on some of the firm’s
largest American deals, including  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s $9 billion sale
of its U.S. online bank to  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  in
February.  The banker spent most of his career at Merrill Lynch & Co.
In 2007, he was named treasurer of the firm, a role he filled
until the company’s takeover by Bank of America Corp. in 2009.  A month after the sale was completed, Heaton led a team of
12 Merrill financial-services bankers who defected to Deutsche
Bank. Their former employer sued Deutsche Bank over what it
called a hiring “raid.”  At Morgan Stanley, Heaton will reunite with  Greg Fleming ,
the former Merrill Lynch president who now oversees Morgan
Stanley’s wealth management business.  Two of Heaton’s brothers, David and Seth, moved with him
from Merrill Lynch to Deutsche Bank. David Heaton, who is Eric’s
twin, joined Morgan Stanley in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  