-- Morgan Stanley Sued by Asset Management Fund Over Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-02T14:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/morgan-stanley-sued-by-asset-management-fund-over-securities-1-.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  was sued by Asset
Management Fund for fraud in New York state court over the
purchase of $122.4 million in residential mortgage-backed
securities.  Allegations against the bank include fraud, fraudulent
inducement and negligent misrepresentation over the sale of the
securities, according to documents filed in New York State
Supreme Court yesterday.  Morgan Stanley’s offering materials for the investments
contained “material misrepresentations and omissions” on the
loans underlying the securities, including the percentage of
owner-occupied properties, the fund said in the court documents.  “Plaintiffs did not know the true facts regarding
defendants’ misrepresentations and omissions in the offering
materials, and justifiably relied on those misrepresentations
and omissions,” the fund said.  Mark Lake, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley,
didn’t immediately return a telephone message left at his office
seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Asset Management Fund, based in  Chicago , also sued JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in the same court in February over $515.6 million in
residential mortgage-backed securities, and sued Bank of America
Corp. over $239.5 million worth of the investments in March.  Asset Management Fund does business as AMF Funds, according
to the court documents. The firm, which is managed by Shay
Assets Management Inc., had about $590 million in assets under
management in 2011, according to its  website .  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  The case is Asset Management Fund v. Morgan Stanley,
651466/2012,  New York  State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  