-- Motorola Mobility Wins German Ruling on Windows, Xbox
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-05-02T13:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/motorola-mobility-wins-german-ruling-on-windows-xbox.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  won a
patent ruling allowing it to ban  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  from selling
its Windows 7,  Internet Explorer  and Media Player software and
Xbox gaming systems in  Germany .  In a case that prompted Microsoft to move its European
logistics center to the Netherlands from Germany, the Mannheim
Regional Court found the company violated patents related to
industry standards for video compression. Last month, a U.S.
court ordered Motorola Mobility not to enforce a ban if it won
today’s ruling while a related dispute in  Seattle  is pending.  The suit is part of a wave of global patent litigation as
companies seek a greater share of smartphone and handheld-device
sales. The total market for mobile devices, which includes
tablet computers and e-readers, is projected to reach $360
billion this year, according to  Carl Howe , an analyst with
Boston-based advisory firm  Yankee Group .  Last month, Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker,
said it was moving its European logistics center to the
Netherlands from Germany because of the patent fight. The German
unit is the central distribution point for software and other
Microsoft products in  Europe , so an adverse German ruling may
have threatened deliveries through much of the continent.  ‘Standard Essential’  Today’s dispute, which yielded four rulings over the same
set of patents, involves technology known as “standard
essential” set by industry groups that every company needs to
use. Owners of standard essential patents are required to
licenses them to competitors under fair and reasonable terms.  The ruling “is one step in a long process, and we are
confident that Motorola will eventually be held to its promise
to make its standard essential patents available on fair and
reasonable terms,” Microsoft said in an e-mailed statement.
Motorola Mobility “is prohibited from acting on today’s
decision, and our business in Germany will continue as usual
while we appeal.”  Motorola Mobility said that it would consider licensing
terms.  “As a path forward, we remain open to resolving this
matter,” the Libertyville, Illinois-based company said in a
statement. “Fair compensation is all that we have been seeking
for our intellectual property.”  2.25 Percent  Microsoft, as well as Cupertino, California-based  Apple (AAPL) 
Inc., have said Motorola Mobility’s request that they pay 2.25
percent of the retail price of products that incorporate the
technology is unreasonable. The European Commission is also
investigating Motorola Mobility over the issue.  Microsoft in April won a court ruling in Seattle blocking
Motorola Mobility from taking any steps to ban the products from
the German market until a trial in the U.S. case can be held. A
hearing in that case is scheduled for May 7.  The case is part of a broader dispute between the companies
over devices that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android mobile operating
system. Microsoft wants a U.S. trade agency to ban U.S. imports
of Android phones made by Motorola Mobility, while Motorola
Mobility is asking the agency to block imports of the Xbox.  In April, a U.S. International Trade Commission judge said
the Xbox infringed four patents. The determination is subject to
review by the six-member commission, which can block the Asia-
made products from entering the U.S.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , has received
U.S. and European regulatory approval to buy Motorola Mobility
for $12.5 billion. It’s still awaiting approval from Chinese
regulators.  Today’s cases are LG Mannheim, 2 O 240/11, 2 O 273/11, 2 O
376/11, 2 O 387/11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Mannheim via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net  