-- Spurs Stay in Hunt for Champions League With Newcastle
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-05-03T00:26:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/tottenham-beats-bolton-newcastle-tops-chelsea-in-premier-league.html
Tottenham and Newcastle remain locked
together in the race for a berth in soccer’s  Champions League 
after winning away matches in the Premier League.  Papiss Cisse got both goals last night as Newcastle
rebounded from a 4-0 loss at Wigan by beating Chelsea 2-0. Spurs
scored three times in the second half to defeat Bolton 4-1.  Tottenham and Newcastle both have 65 points, one fewer than
third-place Arsenal, with two games left. Tottenham holds fourth
place, the final qualifying spot for  Europe ’s elite Champions
League, on goal difference.  “It’s still tight,” Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp  said in
a televised interview. “Newcastle’s result has opened it all up
and kept them in it.”  Cisse scored in each half as Newcastle won a league match
at  Stamford  Bridge for the first time since 1986. Cisse has 13
goals in 12 league matches since joining Newcastle in January
from German club Freiburg. The Magpies host league leader
 Manchester City  next on May 6.  The loss leaves Chelsea in sixth place, four points behind
Newcastle and Tottenham. The Blues will probably have to win the
May 19 Champions League final against  Bayern Munich  to qualify
for next season’s competition. That would drop the fourth-place
finisher into the second-tier Europa League.  Cisse opened the scoring in the 19th minute by flicking the
ball into the air with his right foot and firing a left-footed
shot past goalkeeper Petr Cech.  ‘Special’ Goals  He then clinched Newcastle’s seventh win in eight games in
second-half stoppage time by bending a shot with the outside of
his foot from the left edge of the penalty area over Cech into
the top right corner of the net.  “His first one was special, the second one was even
better,” Newcastle manager  Alan Pardew  said of Cisse’s goals.
“There’s nothing you can do about that. As soon as he hit it
 Petr Cech  was struggling and it nestled in the far corner.”  Emmanuel Adebayor scored twice and Luka Modric and  Rafael van der Vaart  had one goal each to lead Tottenham past Bolton.
Spurs scored three times in a nine-minute span of the second
half in winning for the first time in nine away league matches.  The loss keeps Bolton in the three relegations places at
the bottom of the standings behind Queens Park Rangers on goal
difference, with both teams having 34 points.  Bolton’s Fabrice Muamba returned to the Reebok Stadium for
the first time since suffering a cardiac arrest during an F.A.
Cup game between the same two teams in  London  on March 17. The
midfielder received a standing ovation as he was introduced on
the field before the game.  Modric gave Spurs the lead in the 37th minute with a shot
into the top corner and Bolton’s Nigel Reo-Coker tied the score
six minutes into the second half.  Van der Vaart put Tottenham back in front in the 60th
minute and Adebayor added goals in the 62nd and 69th minutes to
clinch Tottenham’s second win in 13 league games at Bolton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  