-- Howard Turner, Who Led Builder of Landmarks, Dies at 100
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-05-02T17:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/howard-turner-who-led-builder-of-landmarks-dies-at-100.html
Howard S. Turner, who helped oversee
construction of Madison Square Garden in New York as president
of Turner Construction Co., the builder founded by his uncle,
has died. He was 100.  He died of pneumonia on April 25 at Bryn Mawr Hospital in
 Pennsylvania , according to company spokesman Christopher
McFadden. Turner was a resident of  Newtown Square , a
Philadelphia suburb.  Turner Construction , one of the largest U.S. builders, has
erected world landmarks including the new Yankee Stadium in New
York; the Breakers Hotel in  Palm Beach , Florida; and the world’s
tallest and second-tallest buildings, the Burj Khalifa in Dubai
and Taipei 101 in Taiwan. Since 1999 it has been a unit of
 Hochtief AG (HOT) ,  Germany ’s largest construction company, based in
Essen.  Howard Turner was the last member of his family to serve as
president of the New York-based company, a title he assumed in
1965. He became chief executive officer in 1968 and was chairman
from 1971 to 1978. From 1965 to 1978, the builder’s U.S.
operations grew from seven cities to 20, its international
division opened, and sales almost tripled to $1.7 billion,
according to a  statement  on the company’s website.  He showed pride as well in the  Turner School of
Construction Management , formed in 1969 to support minority- and
women-owned businesses seeking to become project partners and
subcontractors.  Lunch Meetings  Peter Davoren, Turner Construction’s current president and
CEO, said today in an interview that he met with Turner at least
once a year over lunch through 2011.  “He’d ask very pointed questions, like, ‘How many
employees did you hire this year? How many universities and
colleges did you go to? What is the breakdown of diversity now,
how many people of color and women?’” Davoren said. “Never
once did he ask us how much money we made. He talked about those
softer things that make a business great.”  Prominent construction projects undertaken during Turner’s
tenure include the  John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and
Museum  in Boston; PepsiCo Inc.’s  world headquarters  in Purchase,
 New York ; the  Mei Foo Sun Chuen  apartment complex in  Hong Kong ;
and  Aon Center  in Chicago, formerly called the Standard Oil
Building.  He became company president, succeeding his cousin, H.C.
Turner Jr., as the firm was embarking on a joint venture with
Del E. Webb Corp. to build a new Madison Square Garden above
Pennsylvania Station in midtown  Manhattan . The arena opened in
1968. Today, Turner Construction is managing a three-stage
renovation of the Garden, due for completion in 2013.  Earned Doctorate  Howard Sinclair Turner was born on Nov. 27, 1911, in
Jenkintown, Pennsylvania. His father, J. Archer Turner, served
as Turner Construction president from 1941 to 1946; his uncle,
Henry Turner -- Archer’s older brother -- founded the company in
1902.  Turner earned his undergraduate degree from  Swarthmore
College  in Pennsylvania in 1933 and a doctorate in organic
chemistry and chemical engineering from the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  in Cambridge in 1936.  He worked at DuPont Co. in Wilmington, Delaware, as a
research chemist, developing nylon for military and civilian
uses, such as parachutes. He directed research and development
at Pittsburgh Consolidation Coal Co., then was vice president
for research and development at Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp.
from 1954 to 1965.  His wife, the former Katharine Swett, died in 2003. He is
survived by their three daughters, Susan Turner of  Boston , Holly
Turner of  Edmonton ,  Canada , and Barbara Jean Turner of San
Antonio, according to a company statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  