-- HP, Quanta Computer Joining Facebook-Backed Open Compute Project
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-02T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/hp-quanta-computer-joining-facebook-backed-open-compute-project.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Quanta
Computer Inc. (2382)  are among the new companies joining the Facebook
Inc.-backed Open Compute Project, an effort started last year to
improve efficiency in data-center and hardware designs.  The two companies are teaming up with other technology
providers such as  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , which
already have become official members. The addition of Quanta,
the world’s largest contract manufacturer for laptops, and HP,
the largest computer maker, will be announced today as part of
the Open Compute Project summit, which is expected to draw more
than 500 people in San Antonio.  “I really expected it to take a lot longer to have the
type of impact that we’re having,” said Frank Frankovsky, vice
president of hardware design and supply chain at Facebook. “The
pace at which the momentum is building around this is pretty
incredible.”  Facebook, owner of the world’s most popular social-
networking service, is seeking ways to reduce energy consumption
at its data centers, which power the site used by more than 900
million members. While improvements can lessen the impact of
massive data centers on the environment, they also can cut
costs.  Other new partners in the project include  Salesforce.com
Inc. (CRM) , FMR LLC’s Fidelity Investments and  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  Frankovsky
said there have been discussions with  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , which has yet to become an official member.  The project, which was started by Facebook, became an
independent organization in October. Frankovsky is chairman and
president of the organization.  As part of today’s announcement, HP and Dell are
introducing new server and storage designs that are compatible
with project specifications. HP’s design is called “Project
Coyote” and Dell’s is called “Zeus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  