-- Pimco Sees More BOE Bond Purchases as It Favors Gilts
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-05-02T11:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/pimco-sees-more-boe-bond-purchases-as-it-favors-gilts.html
The  Bank of England  will probably
expand its bond-purchase program by 25 billion pounds ($40.5
billion) after the U.K. entered its first double-dip recession
since the 1970s, said Pacific Investment Management Co.  Pimco favors gilts maturing within five to 10 years and
longer-dated inflation-protected bonds on bets the central bank
will maintain its “very easy” monetary policy until 2014 and
keep consumer-price growth elevated, said Michael Amey, a
portfolio manager in London. The  Bank of England  completed 325
billion pounds of asset purchases, a process known as
quantitative easing, yesterday. Policy makers meet on May 10.  The central bank “will be reluctant to call it to a halt
now given the weakness in the growth outlook,” Amey said April
30 in an interview confirmed yesterday. “They might do another
25 billion pounds and reassess the impact thereafter. They would
want to indicate they are still worried about the growth
dynamics.”  Pimco, the world’s biggest bond fund manager, is a unit of
the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV)  and managed $1.35 trillion
of assets as of September.  Gilts rose today, pushing the 10-year yield down four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.06 percent at 12:09 p.m.
 London  time. The rate slid to a record 1.917 percent on Jan. 18.
Two-year note yields were little changed at 0.43 percent.  Recession  Britain’s economy unexpectedly shrank in the first three
months of the year, pushing the nation into recession after
emerging from five quarters of contraction in 2009.  The Bank of England projected in February growth of 1.3
percent this year before expanding 2.8 percent in 2013. It
forecast  inflation  will fall below its 2 percent target in the
fourth quarter.  “It’s unlikely that both of the forecasts for this year
will be achieved,” said Amey. “Our expectation is that the
U.K. growth number is going to remain close to zero for the bulk
of the year. The biggest risk to the U.K. is the  euro zone , its
major trading partner, and that region is facing recession.”  Monetary Policy Committee members meet next week as the
nation’s inflation rate remains above their forecast and the
central bank’s target.  Consumer-price  inflation  accelerated in March for the first
time in six months, rising to an annual 3.5 percent. The figure
has been above the Bank of England target every month since
December 2009.  Inflation ‘Sticky’  “Inflation numbers in the U.K. are going to stay sticky
because of weak productivity growth and high import prices,”
said Amey. “Within the U.K. market, the best value is in
inflation-linked for longer-dated bonds and five-to-10 years in
nominal bonds.”   Gilts have handed investors a 1.3 percent loss this year,
according the indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analyst Societies, making them the
second-worst performer after  Greece  among 26 sovereign indexes.
U.K. government debt was the best performer last year.  Foreign investors sold a net 1.73 billion pounds of gilts
in March, after offloading 4.66 billion pounds of the securities
in the prior month, the Bank of England said today on its
website.  U.K. inflation-protected bonds lost investors 2.2 percent
in the first four months of this year, according to indexes
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Their U.S.
counterparts gained 2.9 percent while German index-linked bonds
returned 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  