-- Price Rise Seen Moderate in U.S. Exports of Liquefied Gas
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-05-02T16:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/price-rise-seen-moderate-in-u-s-exports-of-liquefied-gas.html
A prospective boom in U.S. exports of
liquefied natural gas will have only a modest impact on domestic
energy prices and the manufacturers using the fuel, according to
a Brookings Institution  study .  Gas would rise as much as 50 cents per million British
thermal units if exports reached 9 billion cubic feet a day by
2035, according to Charles Ebinger, director of Brookings’
Energy Security Initiative and lead writer of the study released
today. The U.S. has approved one terminal to export gas, and it
isn’t scheduled to start operating until late 2015.  Drilling techniques such as hydraulic fracturing have cut
the cost of producing gas from shale, contributing to an
increase in supply that outpaced forecasts, sending prices to
the lowest in a decade. The surplus makes it feasible to
eventually turn all U.S. gas import terminals into export hubs,
according to Ebinger.  “U.S. consumers will pay more up to this narrow range that
we’re taking about,” Ebinger said in an interview. “It will be
a modest impact on prices.”  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)  on April 16 won federal approval to
build a $10 billion natural-gas export terminal in  Louisiana .
 Dominion Resources Inc. (D)  is seeking to export gas from its Cove
Point terminal in  Maryland .  Imports Declining  Net imports of natural gas fell to 5 billion cubic feet a
day, the lowest level since 1992, according to an Energy
Information Administration report in March. Daily gas production
rose 10 percent to 64.2 billion cubic feet a day in January from
the same month a year earlier, EIA reported in February.  “This report understates the potential negative impacts of
natural gas exports on our economy and especially
manufacturers,” U.S. Representative Ed Markey of  Massachusetts ,
senior Democrat on the Natural Resources Committee, said in an
e-mail. “How we extract and use America’s supply of natural gas
will be two of the central energy questions of the coming
decade, and our economy and environment can’t afford getting
these challenges wrong.”  Chemical manufacturers that depend on natural gas have
sought export limits to keep domestic prices low.  Dow Chemical
Co. (DOW)  Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  said it would be
smart for the U.S. to limit exports to 10 percent of gas output,
and that exporting more than 15 percent would tighten markets
and send prices higher.  Market’s Role  Restricting exports may create unintended consequences,
according to the study. A better course could be to let markets
determine the volume of shipments.  “The market will determine after the first few plants if
there’s a demand for all these other facilities to come on,”
Ebinger said. The government “shouldn’t do anything to retard
it, but they don’t need to encourage it other than just keep the
regulatory process going.”  A January study by the Energy Department concluded an
increase in exports will increase domestic prices. The
department is preparing an analysis of economic impacts of gas
exports for this summer, Bill Gibbons, a spokesman, said.  “The development of American shale gas resources is having
a transformative impact on the U.S. energy landscape,” Gibbons
said in an e-mail. “The department will then take time to
review the results and develop a path forward for making public
interest determinations for the pending export applications.”  Gas for June delivery rose 8.6 cents to settle at $2.371
per million British thermal units yesterday on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Futures have declined 21 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  