-- Prickly Papp; Knuckleball Legends, ‘Manscaping’: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-05-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/prickly-papp-knuckleball-legends-manscaping-movies.html
New York ’s most prolific theater
producer gets his curtain call in “Joe Papp in Five Acts,” a
documentary that captures a genius in all his prickly
brilliance.  The man who sent free Shakespeare to Central Park and “A
Chorus Line” to Broadway is captured -- by turns fondly and
pointedly -- by some of the brightest lights he presented.  Meryl Streep  poignantly recalls a hospital visit from Papp,
then later describes his treatment of underlings as “brutal.”  Written and directed by Tracie Holder and Karen Thorsen,
“Joe Papp” made its world premiere at the  Tribeca Film Festival 
on Sunday. A coproduction with  PBS ’s “American Masters,” the
film will air sometime in 2013, likely following more festival
appearances.  Culling from a trove of archival material, “Joe Papp”
augments its talking head recollections with wonderful clips of
many, now-legendary performances. To pick a few: Streep and Raul
Julia in “Taming of the Shrew,” George C. Scott as Shylock, and
Brad Davis in rehearsals for “The Normal Heart.”  Papp himself is ever present, in taped interviews stretching
back to the 1950s. Theater aficionados will delight in his brief
tour of a pre-renovation  Public Theater , the abandoned files and
children’s shoes littering the dilapidated building that once
housed a Jewish immigrant aid society.  Hid Jewishness  Divided into five segments, “Joe Papp” begins with the
notoriously private man’s earliest days: His hardscrabble
Brooklyn childhood, the Jewish parents he hid from even his
closest friends well into middle age, his early embrace of
Socialism.  By the 1950s Papp had found his life’s mission: Free theater
-- Shakespeare, specifically -- for all  New Yorkers . What now
seems an intractable element of the cultural landscape was a
constant battleground, with Papp taking on everyone from power
broker Robert Moses to anti-communist witch hunters and, later,
Broadway kingpins.  “He never, ever backed down,” says  Martin Sheen . Adds
Streep: “It didn’t mean much if there wasn’t a fight.”  The contentiousness exacted a price, and Papp’s later years
were marked by feuds and damaged friendships. The AIDS death of
his beloved son Tony, only months before his own death in 1991,
left him devastated.  “Joe Papp” presents the impresario in full, a difficult man
who triumphed. The film ends with a rare clip of Papp singing in
his own cabaret show, “Once I built a railroad. I made it run.”  This portrait of a Depression-era child who built a great
theater and made it run is as powerfully evocative as that lyric
from “Brother, Can You Spare a Dime?”  “Joe Papp in Five Acts” was reviewed at the Tribeca Film
Festival. Rating: ****  ‘Knuckleball!’  The knuckleball is as lovely and unpredictable as anything
in baseball.  So is “Knuckleball!”  Documentarians Ricki Stern and Annie Sundberg (“ Joan Rivers:
A Piece of Work ”) have chosen their latest -- and unlikeliest --
subject well. Like the tricky pitch it celebrates,
“Knuckleball!” is anything but a gimmick.  Only two pitchers have made a living as masters of the
maneuver in recent years:  Tim Wakefield  of the  Boston Red Sox 
and the  New York Mets ’ R.A. Dickey.  “Knuckleball” follows them through the 2011 baseball season,
as veteran Wakefield struggles toward his 200th career win while
up-and-comer Dickey stakes his professional life on a skill so
delicate it can be undone by a broken fingernail.  A topic this narrow is a risky pitch for the filmmakers,
too. But the charming “Knuckleball” finds something universal
here, about obsession, talent, perseverance and, rarest of all,
good sportsmanship.  “Knuckleball” was reviewed at the Tribeca Film Festival. A
commercial release is expected for the fall. Rating: ***1/2  ‘Mansome’  Filmmaker Morgan Spurlock’s “Mansome” is as pencil thin as
John Waters’s mustache.  A decade after everyone started (and stopped) talking about
metrosexuals, Spurlock’s funny but superficial look at the
commodification of male grooming feels very late to the party.  The documentary takes a lighthearted look at male
peacockery. Celebrities, stylists and regular Joes offer their
thoughts on mustaches, beards, back hair, manscaping, grooming
products and salon pampering.  No one who’s seen “Queer Eye for the Straight Guy” will be
unfamiliar with the plucking and moisturizing, and surely
Spurlock could have found a fresher voice of resistance than
Adam Carolla.  “Mansome” was reviewed at the Tribeca Film Festival.
Rating: **  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include Manuela Hoelterhoff on
architecture and James Pressley on “What Money Can’t Buy.”  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 