-- Protalix Soars on FDA Approval of Gaucher Drug: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-05-02T20:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/protalix-soars-most-on-record-on-fda-approval-tel-aviv-mover.html
Protalix BioTherapeutics Inc. (PLX)  soared
in Tel Aviv trading after the biopharmaceutical company’s first
product won approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.  Protalix surged 14 percent to 29.14 shekels at the 4:30
p.m. close in Tel Aviv. The stock gained 13 percent in  New York 
trading, the biggest single-day advance in more than six months.
The company developed the drug, Elelyso, with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  to
treat the most common form of Gaucher disease, a rare genetic
disorder.  Elelyso will compete with  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Cerezyme and Shire Plc’s
Vpriv. Type 1 Gaucher, which can lead to spleen and liver
enlargement, affects about 6,000 people in the U.S. Pfizer and
Protalix will price Elelyso 25 percent less than Cerezyme, the
companies said in a statement late yesterday. The approval may
help Protalix cement agreements with drugmakers for its
medicines in development, Chief Executive Officer David Aviezer
said.  “This is a validation of our technology,” Aviezer said in
an interview in  Tel Aviv . “The approval could be a harbinger
for additional agreements with other companies for some of our
other drugs in the near future.”  Share Moves  Protalix’s  U.S.-listed stock  jumped to $7.01 at the close
in New York, giving the company a market value of
$636.6 million.  Biocell Ltd. (BCEL) , Protalix’s largest shareholder
with a 16 percent stake, jumped 26 percent to close at 34.87
shekels in Tel Aviv. Sanofi rose 1.2 percent to 58.36 euros, and
Shire climbed 0.3 percent to 2,022 pence.  Cerezyme brought in 441 million euros ($580 million) in
revenue for Sanofi,  France ’s largest drugmaker, last year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Manufacturing problems caused
contamination of Cerezyme at a Massachusetts plant in 2009 that
led to shortages.  Shire (SHP) ’s Vpriv had sales of $256.2 million.  Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, paid Protalix $60
million for an exclusive agreement to sell the drug globally
except for in Israel, according to the company’s annual report.
Pfizer also agreed to pay Protalix $55 million for meeting
certain regulatory requirements. The U.S. company will get 60
percent of Elelyso sales while Protalix will keep 40 percent.  Protalix’s shares were downgraded today to hold from buy by
Ritu Baral, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Corp. The price
estimate is $8 per share.  Israel Review  Protalix expects approval to sell its Gaucher disease drug
in Israel soon, Aviezer said. Israel has at least 500 patients
affected with the illness, he said. The company also is awaiting
a regulatory decision in the European Union.  “This is a biotechnology milestone as it it the first time
the FDA has approved a product that was engineered in plant
cells, as opposed to mammalian or bacterial-based systems,”
Yoav Kedar, a biotechnology consultant for Clal Finance
Brokerage Ltd., said in an interview. “The approval will better
position the company to receive approvals in  Europe ,  Israel  and
 Brazil .”  Gaucher disease can cause fat to build up in the liver,
spleen, bone marrow and nervous system. About 1 in 14
individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry carries the mutated
gene that can cause the illness, and as many as 1 in 500 present
a form of the disorder.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  