-- Prudential Finanical Posts Quarterly Loss on Derivatives
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-05-02T21:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/prudential-financial-posts-first-quarter-loss-on-derivatives.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the second-
biggest U.S. life insurer, swung to a first-quarter loss as the
value of the company’s derivative contracts fell. The stock
dropped 5.6 percent in late  New York  trading.  The $967 million net loss compares with net income of $561
million a year earlier, the  Newark , New Jersey-based company
said today in a statement. Operating profit, which excludes the
results of policies sold before the company went public and some
investments, was $1.56 a share, missing the  average estimate  of
$1.72 from 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld is expanding
outside the U.S. and buying back stock as he seeks to boost
return on equity. Prudential’s derivatives, which are used to
guard against market risks, often lose value when  interest rates 
rise and the company’s credit spreads narrow, as they did in the
 three months  ended March 31.  The loss reflects “fluctuations in claims experience,
expense levels, and market-driven items,” Strangfeld said in
the statement. “Our business fundamentals remain solid and we
are continuing to grow quality business and build our franchises
in attractive markets.”  Prudential fell $3.44 to $57.50 at 5:03 p.m. Prior to the
close of regular trading, the company had risen 22 percent this
year in New York, compared with a 15 percent gain for  MetLife
Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. insurer, which reported a quarterly net
loss of $144 million on April 26.  Weakening Yen  Prudential posted pretax charges of $1.49 billion tied to
foreign exchange derivatives as the Japanese yen weakened
against the dollar and other currencies, the company said. That
contributed to $1.84 billion of pretax net realized investment
losses.  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, was
$70.80 a share at the main business at the end of March,
compared with $69.07 on Dec. 31, Prudential said. The company,
which three months ago reported book value per share of $75.04
as of Dec. 31, said a change in accounting standards required it
to revise the way it classifies some costs.  Strangfeld, 58, told investors last year he was focusing on
boosting ROE, a measure of how well the company reinvests
shareholder money, to 13 percent to 14 percent in 2013. That
compares with Prudential’s ROE of 11 percent to 11.5 percent
last year and less than 10 percent in 2010.  U.S., Japan  Strangfeld is scaling back in some U.S. markets as he
focuses on life insurance sales abroad. Prudential sold its real
estate brokerage and relocation business in December and in
March said it will halt sales of individual long-term care
policies. Prudential bought two Japanese life insurance units
from  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in February 2011 for more
than $4 billion.  Net sales of individual annuities dropped 33 percent to
$3.24 billion, the company said. Operating income from the
retirement products jumped 54 percent to $421 million, helped by
$136 million of net reductions in reserves for guaranteed
benefits, Prudential said.  Prudential’s international insurance business posted $606
million in adjusted operating income, down from $628 million in
the year-earlier period, the firm said. The company had a pretax
charge of $57 million to integrate its businesses in  Japan .  Prudential has raised its  dividend  three times since 2008,
and in June it announced a $1.5 billion buyback. MetLife has
been blocked twice in the last year by regulators from
increasing its dividend and starting a share repurchase. New
York-based MetLife is subject to greater U.S. scrutiny than
Prudential because of its status as a federally regulated  bank
holding company .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 