-- Public-Pension Return of 7.5% Marks Best Quarter Since 2010
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-05-02T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/public-pensions-returns-rise-7-5-for-best-quarter-since-2010.html
U.S. public pensions ended the first
quarter with a median gain of 7.5 percent, the best performance
since 2010, as stocks and real estate boosted returns, Wilshire
Associates said.  The  retirement plans  have recorded a median investment gain
of 16.1 percent since the stock indexes reached recession lows
in March 2009, the company said in a report today. The median
annualized return for the past 10 years was 6.03 percent,
according to the survey. The returns don’t include fees.  “You have double-digit equity returns, both domestic and
international, this quarter and that comes on the heels of many
plans getting an appetite to take on a little more risk,”
Robert Waid, a managing director at Santa Monica California-
based Wilshire, said in a telephone interview.  State and local government pensions count on returns of 7.5
percent to 8 percent to pay benefits for teachers, police
officers and other civil employees. To make up for the losses of
the past 10 years, including the bursting of the Internet stock
bubble and the financial crisis of 2008, public officials have
had to contribute more to pensions, straining municipal budgets.  Estimates of public-pension funding deficits vary from $700
billion to more than $3 trillion, depending on assumptions.
States have responded by raising employees’ retirement ages and
asking them to pay more into plans.  The report, compiled by the company’s Wilshire Trust
Universe Comparison Service, covers about 900 institutional
 investment trusts , including foundations and endowments, union
retirement funds, corporate plans and public pensions.  Taft-Hartley  Union pensions, known as Taft-Hartley plans, had the best
performance, returning a median 8.14 percent in the first three
months of 2012. Across all funds, the median was 7.42 percent.  The median public pension had 58.3 percent of its holdings
in stocks, 25.2 percent in bonds, 2.6 percent in real estate and
5.1 percent in alternative investments such as leveraged-buyout
or distressed-bond funds. About 2.7 percent was held in cash.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 index  returned 12.6 percent,
including dividends, in the first quarter as economic data on
U.S. personal spending and  consumer confidence  topped
economists’ projections while concerns about a worsening of the
European financial crisis diminished. The index declined 0.8
percent in April as  Spain  entered a recession and business
activity slowed.  Pensions are diversifying by increasing allocations in
private equity,  hedge funds , real estate and international
stocks and bonds, said Waid.  “They’re really spreading their risk versus just being a
standard 60/40 U.S. equity, U.S. fixed,” Waid said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  