-- Q-Cells May Sell Itself in Insolvency, Administrator Says
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-05-02T11:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/q-cells-may-sell-itself-in-insolvency-administrator-says.html
Q-Cells SE (QCE)  may be sold or restructured
in a controlled insolvency as talks with investors over the
German solar-cell maker begin, said Henning Schorisch, an
insolvency administrator.  Talks with creditors about a possible debt-to-equity
conversion as well as finding an investor for the Solibro thin-
film unit, which isn’t affected by the insolvency, are
continuing, Schorisch said today at Q-Cells headquarters in
Bitterfeld-Wolfen.  “All options remain on the table, and that’s positive,”
Schorisch said. He said he’s “cautiously optimistic” that the
company, which employs about 1,300 in Saxony-Anhalt and Berlin,
can be restructured without significant job losses because it’s
a “technology leader.”  The  shares  climbed as much as 12 percent after the
announcment. Q-Cells was up 7 percent, to 14.6 euro cents, as of
12:56 p.m. in Frankfurt today.  Schorisch, a lawyer at HWW Wienberg Wilhelm, was named by a
local court as preliminary insolvency administrator until formal
insolvency proceedings are opened and a permanent adminstrator
is named.  German solar companies have struggled with reduced
 government aid  and competition from Chinese companies that
created a glut of solar panels. Q-Cells, once the biggest solar-
cell maker, along with  Solon SE (SOO1) ,  Solar Millennium AG (S2M)  and
 Solarhybrid AG (SHL)  all filed for insolvency since December.  Q-Cells, which has about 150 million euros ($197 million)
in liquid assets, is back to producing cells 24 hours a day,
seven days a week. It’s planning for an internal interim
progress report on mergers and acquisitions by the middle of the
month after several interested parties contacted Schorisch, he
said. There have been no layoffs yet, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  