-- Trafigura Hires Bankers for Commodity Trade Finance Business
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-05-02T10:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/trafigura-hires-bankers-for-commodity-trade-finance-business-1-.html
Trafigura Beheer BV, the world’s
third-biggest oil trader, said it hired Christoph Gugelmann,
Stefano Sabbadini and Philip Jan Kok for its Galena Asset
Management unit to expand its commodity trade finance business.  Gugelmann, Sabbadini and Kok, previously with  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , will join as credit portfolio managers at Galena
in Geneva which is seeking to double funds under management to
$4 billion by the end of 2013, Trafigura said in a statement.  The three people will be responsible for diversifying
Trafigura’s funding sources to “liquidity rich but risk averse
investors” such as pension funds, insurance companies,
corporations and family trusts, according to the statement.  They will also develop new investment vehicles with an
initial target to raise $1 billion, to complement Galena’s
Commodity Trade Finance fund, which averaged an annual return of
7.9 percent since inception, Trafigura said. The fund started in
the third quarter of 2010.  “By participating in the financing of commodity trading
operations investors will be able to monetize the value of
liquidity in a market that, until recently, has only been open
to banks,” Pierre Lorinet, chief financial officer at
Trafigura, said in the statement. “Notably this initiative will
also provide distribution channels for those banks seeking to
deleverage their balance sheets.”  Lending Declines  Bank lending to commodity and mining companies fell 31
percent to $143.9 billion this year from the same period last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Citigroup Inc.
Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase & Co. are the top lenders to the
industries this year while last year JPMorgan was first, BNP
Paribas SA was second and Bank of America third, the data show.  Gugelmann was previously head of the  Europe , Middle East
and Africa markets solutions group at Bank of America, Trafigura
said. Sabbadini was head of EMEA credit and funding structuring
and Kok was head of Netherlands sales at the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  