-- TransAlta Penalized in Worst Performance: Canada Credit
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-05-02T14:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/transalta-penalized-in-worst-performance-canada-credit.html
TransAlta Corp. (TA)  bonds are the worst
performers versus their peers this quarter as Canada’s largest
publicly traded electricity producer faces sinking power prices,
higher maintenance costs and a possible bill for shutting down a
coal-fired power plant.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Calgary-based
TransAlta’s bonds increased 13 basis points during the quarter
through April 30, the most of any Canadian utility in a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch bond index. The yield difference is almost
double the seven-basis-point increase for global utilities,
including Germany’s RWE AG and American Electric Power Co., the
largest coal-power generator in the U.S.  “This year is going to be a rough patch in terms of  cash
flow  and uncertainty,” said Matthew Kolodzie, a credit analyst
at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Dominion Securities unit in
Toronto. “There’s a heavy maintenance program, which means less
cash flow and more spending, the arbitration outcome, and
they’re also having to renew contracts just as power prices have
come down.”  TransAlta reported comparable first-quarter earnings per
share of 20 cents on April 26, versus 34 cents a year earlier, a
week after Moody’s Investors Service put the electricity
producer on credit watch for possible downgrade. The company
expects a ruling from arbitrators in July about a disagreement
with TransCanada Corp., which has a contract to buy power from
TransAlta’s Sundance coal-fired plant in  Alberta  and may result
in C$500 million ($508 million) of additional costs.  Moody’s rates TransAlta Baa2, the second-lowest  investment-
grade  level, and  Standard & Poor’s  has it at an equivalent BBB,
with a negative outlook. TransAlta has C$4.57 billion in
outstanding notes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Could Be Compromised’  “Improving financial metrics could be compromised with a
negative outcome to the Sundance arbitration,” said Moody’s
credit analyst David Brandt on April 19.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the yield premium investors
demand to hold bonds of investment-grade Canadian companies held
steady yesterday from a day earlier at 153 basis points, or 1.53
percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data. Corporate bonds have returned 1.6 percent this year,
compared with a 0.5 percent loss by federal  government bonds .  Spreads on provincial bonds tightened to 72 basis points,
from 73 basis points on April 30, while yields declined to 2.73
percent, from 2.74 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data. The securities have lost 0.8 percent this year.  Quebec Issue  Quebec reopened its issue of 3.5 percent notes due December
2022, raising an additional C$500 million to bring the total
size to C$4 billion. The securities were priced to yield 105
basis points more than federal benchmarks.  Benchmark government  10-year bonds  rose, pushing yields
down four basis points to 2 percent. The price of the 3.25
percent bonds due in June 2021 rose 36 cents to C$110.31.  Canada  will sell C$2.6 billion of 10-year bonds today, the
central bank said on its website. The 2.75 percent securities
mature in June 2022.  “We’re committed to maintaining investment-grade credit
ratings,” said TransAlta Chief Financial Officer Brett Gellner
during an April 26 conference call with analysts. The company’s
“focus” is on maintenance of the fleet of power plants, the
Centralia coal-fired plant in Washington state and the Sundance
arbitration, he said.  TransCanada has a power-purchase agreement to buy the
Sundance plant’s electricity through 2017 and wants the facility
to start generating power again, Chief Executive Officer Russell Girling told journalists following the company’s annual
shareholders’ meeting in Calgary on April 27. Several unplanned
shutdowns of the coal plant led TransAlta to determine the
operation was not profitable.  Lower Prices  TransAlta is also facing lower power prices and
difficulties in contracting power from its Centralia station,
which must be shuttered by 2025.  On-peak power prices  in the
Pacific Northwest, where TransAlta sells power from Centralia,
have plunged by about 75 percent this year. That contributed to
C$37 million less in funds from operations in the first quarter.  The company’s Baa2 rating from Moody’s compares with Baa1
for  Alliant Energy Corp. (LNT) , a Madison, Wisconsin-based utility
with a market value of about $5 billion.  DBRS rates TransAlta’s notes BBB with a stable outlook.  “DBRS is increasingly concerned about the continued
challenging merchant power market environment that could
materially add to the company’s existing challenges in the
medium term,” analysts James Jung, Eric Eng and William Vaz- Jones said in an April 27 note.  Project Abandoned  TransAlta abandoned a project to trap and store emissions
from an Alberta coal-fired power plant. The company said the
potential revenue from selling carbon didn’t justify the cost of
completing the project, according to a statement April 26.  The power producer also booked a C$22 million charge in the
quarter to write down the value of its coal inventory. More than
half of TransAlta’s power generation is from coal-fired
facilities.  “Due to the headline risk associated with the negative
outlook at both agencies, we would not be active buyers of the
credit at this time,” Scott Greenstein and Dot Matthews, credit
analysts at CreditSights Inc., said in a March 6 note.  The company’s  shares  fell 1.3 percent to C$16.36 at 10:28
a.m. in trading on the Toronto stock exchange, valuing TransAlta
at about C$3.7 billion. The stock has declined 22 percent during
the past 12 months, compared with a 12 percent decline for the
S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  