-- RBC to Pay Massachusetts Up to $3.2 Million in ETF Claims
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-05-02T20:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/rbc-to-pay-massachusetts-up-to-3-2-million-in-etf-claims.html
Royal Bank of Canada  has agreed to
reimburse  Massachusetts  investors as much as $2.9 million and
pay a $250,000 fine over sales of leveraged and inverse
exchange-traded funds.  RBC Capital Markets LLC, a U.S. subsidiary of the Montreal-
based bank, sold the products between 2006 and 2009 to clients
“whose investment objective did not fit the inherent risk” of
the funds, according to a statement today from William F. Galvin, Secretary of the Commonwealth. The settlement resolves
an administrative complaint brought against RBC in July.  “The company was selling products it did not understand,
and when it finally realized the risk and pitfalls of these
investments it did not immediately restrict their marketing,”
Galvin, Massachusetts’ top securities regulator, said in the
statement.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or Finra,
yesterday announced settlements with Citigroup Inc., Morgan
Stanley, UBS AG and  Wells Fargo & Co . over similar claims. The
banks paid a combined $9.1 million in fines and restitution.
Finra warned brokers in June 2009 that leveraged and inverse
ETFs were difficult to understand and not a good fit for long-
term investors.  “We fully cooperated throughout this matter and have in
place extensive policies, procedures and training requirements
that are in compliance with regulatory requirements and with
industry best practices in this arena,” Jonell Lundquist, an
RBC spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  ETFs typically track indexes and trade throughout the day
on an exchange like stocks. Leveraged versions use swaps or
derivatives to amplify daily index returns, while the inverse
funds are designed to move in the opposite direction of their
benchmark. Because gains or losses in the funds are compounded
daily, returns over more than one day can differ from returns
implied by the underlying index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  