-- Real Madrid, Ajax Win League Titles as Messi Hits Record
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-05-03T01:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/real-madrid-beats-athletic-bilbao-to-claim-spanish-soccer-title.html
Real  Madrid  clinched its record-
extending 32nd Spanish soccer league title with a 3-0 win over
 Athletic Bilbao  as Barcelona’s  Lionel Messi  set a European goal-
scoring record. Ajax won its 31st Dutch championship.  AC Milan cut Juventus’ lead atop  Italy ’s Serie A to one
point last night, while Paris Saint-Germain and Lille won to
keep their title hopes alive in France.  Gonzalo Higuain, Mesut Ozil and Cristiano Ronaldo scored to
give Real its first La Liga title since 2008 and end Barcelona’s
three-year reign as champion. Real has 94 points, seven more
than its archrival with two matches left.  “The league is even harder when you fight for it with a
team like Barcelona,” Ronaldo, who missed a penalty kick, said
in comments on Real’s website. “We were better than them.”  Higuain and Ozil scored four minutes apart in the first
half in Bilbao and Ronaldo added a 50th-minute goal as Real
pushed its single-season Spanish scoring record to 115 goals.  The victory gives Real manager  Jose Mourinho  championships
in four different countries, following titles with Porto,
Chelsea and  Inter Milan .  “I won the league title in Portugal, Italy and  England ,
but this one has been the toughest,” Mourinho told
RealmadridTV. “I’ve won seven league titles overall and I know
what it feels like.”  Messi Passes Muller  Ronaldo lifted his league tally to 44 goals, two fewer than
Messi, who scored three times last night in a 4-1 win over
Malaga to break the record for goals in a European season.  Messi, who was named the world’s best player for the third
straight year in January, scored with two penalty kicks before
completing his hat trick to give him 68 goals in all
competitions this season, passing the mark of 67 set by  Bayern
Munich ’s Gerd Muller in 1972-73.  In the Netherlands, Siem de Jong scored in each half as
Ajax won its 13th straight game to retain its Eredivisie title.
The Amsterdam club won the league in back-to-back seasons for
the first time since 1996, when it capped a run of three
straight crowns.  Ajax trailed first-place  AZ Alkmaar  by 13 points in
November and was eight points behind co-leaders AZ and PSV
Eindhoven as late as Feb. 18.  Andrea Bertolacci’s goal in the 85th minute gave 10-man
Lecce a 1-1 tie at Juventus that tightened up the title race in
Italy. Juventus, which remains unbeaten with two games left, has
78 points and AC Milan is on 77 following its 2-0 win over
Atalanta last night.  In  France , PSG beat Saint-Etienne 2-0 and Lille defeated
Nice 1-0 to stay in contention with three games remaining.
Montpellier tops Ligue 1 with 73 points, three more than PSG and
five ahead of defending champion Lille.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 