-- Red Electrica Expects Bolivia to Pay for Nationalization
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-05-02T20:37:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/red-electrica-expects-bolivia-to-pay-for-nationalization.html
Red Electrica Corp. (REE)  SA expects fair
payment from Bolivia for the nationalization of the Spanish grid
operator’s unit after the Spanish government said it received a
compensation guarantee.  “We trust we will reach a friendly agreement with the
Bolivian government to set a fair price,” the Alcobendas,
Spain-based company said today in a statement. “We respect the
sovereign decision.”  President  Evo Morales  on May Day announced he was
nationalizing the business, saying Red Electrica hadn’t invested
enough in Bolivia. The decision took place two weeks after
 Argentina  expropriated oil producer  YPF SA (REP)  from Spanish parent
Repsol YPF SA. An independent auditor will decide what
compensation Red Electrica should be paid, accounting for back
taxes and environmental damage,  Bolivia ’s state news agency
said.  Spain ’s government, which holds a 20 percent  stake  in Red
Electrica, will be “vigilant” to make sure a fair price is
paid, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said today in Brussels.
Bolivian officials have “guaranteed” compensation, he said.
Red Electrica shares fell as much as 4 percent today in Madrid
trading, the most in a month.  The nationalization won’t have a “significant impact” on
group earnings as the Bolivian unit accounts for 1.5 percent of
revenue, the company said today in a filing. Red Electrica,
which bought the company in 2002 for $91 million, has invested
$88 million in the business, it said.  State Control  Morales, an ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , is
echoing Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner in
citing underinvestment and strategic reasons for nationalizing
the company. Fernandez expropriated YPF on April 16 from Madrid-
based Repsol YPF.  Since taking office in 2006, Morales has seized gas fields,
oil refineries, pension funds, telecommunications companies and
a tin smelter to increase state control of the landlocked
nation’s $20 billion economy.  Bolivian international reserves climbed about 48 percent
the past two years to $12.6 billion. Finance Minister Luis Arce
in March said the economy will expand 5.5 percent this year, up
from 5.1 percent in 2011. Bolivia had an estimated budget
surplus of 0.8 percent of gross domestic product last year.  ‘Negative Signal’  The seizure may further undermine Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  as support for his four-month-old government wanes
amid budget cuts. Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria responded
to Argentina’s nationalization by pledging “clear and
decisive” measures for trade and industry in retaliation for
what he called a “hostile” act. Two weeks later, the only
measure the government has adopted is a ministerial order
designed to reduce demand for Argentine biodiesel.  Bolivia’s decision to nationalize the unit sends a
“negative signal to international investors,” an EU spokesman,
 John Clancy , said today in Brussels.  The Bolivian government is willing to compensate Red
Electrica for the loss of its assets and investment in the local
unit, the Andean country’s Energy Minister Juan Sosa said today
in an interview with La Paz-based television channel ATB. The
size of the payout will be determined within 180 days, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 