-- Red Electrica Falls After Unit Nationalized: Madrid Mover
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-05-02T09:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/red-electrica-falls-as-bolivia-nationalizes-unit-madrid-mover.html
Red Electrica Corp. (REE)  SA fell the most
in more than two weeks in  Madrid  trading after Bolivian
President  Evo Morales  said he would nationalize the Spanish grid
operator’s unit in the South American country.  The shares  dropped  as much as 3.5 percent to 31.725 euros,
the most intraday since April 13, and traded at 31.895 euros at
11 a.m. in Madrid, where there’s a local holiday today. In
comparison, the Ibex 35 main share index declined 1.4 percent.  Morales in a May Day speech yesterday announced he was
nationalizing the business, saying Red Electrica hadn’t invested
enough in Bolivia. The decision occurred two weeks after
 Argentina  expropriated oil producer YPF SA from Spanish parent
Repsol  YPF SA. (REP)  An independent auditor will decide what
compensation Alcobendas, Spain-based Red Electrica should be
paid, accounting for back taxes and environmental damage,
Bolivia’s state news agency said.  “It is easy to define the Bolivian initiative as bad
news,” Roberto Mascarello, an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets, said in a note, confirming his buy recommendation on
the stock. “However, the valuation impact could be very
limited, even in the case of the independent adviser concluding
its assessment with a valuation well below the fair value.”  Spain , which holds a 20 percent stake in the grid operator,
will be “vigilant” to make sure a fair price is paid, Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos said today in Brussels. Bolivian
officials have “guaranteed” compensation, he said.  The nationalization won’t have a “significant impact” on
group earnings as it accounts for 1.5 percent of revenues, the
company said today in a filing. It remains to be decided how the
price will be determined, it said. Red Electrica, which bought
the company in 2002, has invested more than $60 million since
then, Antonio Prada, a spokesman, said by phone.  Bolivia’s decision to nationalize the unit sends a
“negative signal to international investors,” an EU spokesman,
 John Clancy , said today in Brussels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  