-- Richest Ukrainian Makes $3 Billion on State Asset Sales
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-05-02T20:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/richest-ukrainian-makes-3-billion-on-state-asset-sales.html
Rinat Akhmetov , Ukraine’s richest man,
added $3 billion to his net worth in the past six months by
buying state-owned energy assets sold by his hometown political
ally, President  Viktor Yanukovych .  As the sole bidder in two of five government auctions held
since November, Akhmetov’s DTEK Holdings BV paid about $600
million to acquire state stakes in some of the country’s leading
power generators and distributors that gave him control of about
70 percent of the country’s thermal power output.  Consolidating the assets almost doubled DTEK’s equity value
to more than $8 billion, boosting Akhmetov’s personal fortune to
more than $18 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index , a daily ranking of the world’s richest people.  “Before these privatization auctions, DTEK was already a
minority shareholder in these utilities and controlled their
management,” said Serhiy Diachenko, who covers energy at Kiev,
Ukraine-based think tank Razumkov Center for Economic and
Political Studies. “As a result, there was little or no
competition for these assets as nobody wanted to buy a ticket to
war with Akhmetov.”  Ruslan Leonenko, a DTEK press officer, declined to comment
for the story or on whether the privatization terms and the
prices paid for the assets were fair.  Consolidating Control  Unlike Russia, Ukraine doesn’t have oil reserves and
depends instead on  steel exports  for revenue, as well as
electricity sales to countries including Hungary and  Poland .
Akhmetov, 45, a dominant presence in the country’s steel and
coal business since the late 1990s, has added control of
Ukraine’s power generation industry in recent months.  Akhmetov is one of Ukraine’s most controversial figures
who, like Yanukovych, hails from the industrial Donetsk region,
a mainly Russian-speaking area in the eastern part of the
country. He also represents the president’s Party of Regions in
the Verkhovna Rada parliament.  The son of a coal miner and a shop assistant, Akhmetov
established himself in the Ukrainian business community in the
early 1990s when he started trading metals and coal. He seized
on the financial chaos that followed the breakup of the  Soviet
Union  to buy Ukraine’s stakes in some of the country’s biggest
steel mills and coal mines. They were later combined into
steelmaker Metinvest Holding LLC and DTEK Holding, a producer of
electricity for power stations.  Dangerous Business  Akhmetov started in business working for Akhat Bragin, who
was once accused by a local police chief in Donetsk of having
connections to organized crime. Bragin, who denied the claim,
was killed along with five associates in an explosion at the
Shakhtar Donetsk soccer club’s stadium during a match in October
1995, while serving as president of the club. Akhmetov, who was
a vice president of the club, replaced Bragin, and continues to
serve as president today.  Akhmetov’s attorneys from Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld
LLP said in a statement published on March 2, 2006, that
Akhmetov had fully cooperated with all police investigations,
had never been charged with any crime and had never been
implicated in any manner in the Bragin murder by the police or
prosecutors.  Akhmetov’s attorneys denied any criminal involvement and,
in 2008, sued Ukraine’s online publisher, Obozrevatel, in  London 
for publishing a series that associated Akhmetov with past
connections to organized crime, winning a £50,000 libel
settlement against them for damage to his reputation.  Greater Transparency  Akhmetov was also one of the first businessmen from the
former Soviet Union to structure his assets transparently,
according to Alexei Morozov, a Moscow-based analyst at  UBS AG. (UBSN) 
This included the creation in 2000 of a holding company called
System Capital Management JSC, which now controls more than 100
companies ranging from metals and mining to pharmaceuticals and
real estate. According to SCM’s website, the company employs
260,000 people and had revenue of $12.8 billion in 2010 and
“group assets” of $22.8 billion.  In addition to reporting corporate financial information,
Akhmetov also employs a stable of professional managers to run
his businesses, including former consultants from McKinsey & Co.
Inc. and PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP, and, at Metinvest and DTEK,
top-managers who were hired from Russian metals and mining
companies including  OAO Severstal (SVST) , United Co. Rusal and OAO
Mechel.  Government Ally  Throughout his career, Akhmetov has maintained a close
connection to Yanukovych. The politician became governor of
Akhmetov’s native Donetsk region in 1997 and was subsequently
appointed Prime Minister. In 2004, Akhmetov supported
Yanukovych’s first run for President, donating an undisclosed
sum to his election campaign. Akhmetov’s Shakhtar Arena was
selected to be one of the stadiums that will host the European
Soccer Cup in June.  At the same time, Yanukovych’s political failures have been
painful for Akhmetov. When Yanukovych lost the presidential race
to  Viktor Yushchenko , the new president annulled the state asset
sales of 2004, which saw Akhmetov and his partners paying $800
million for Kryvorizhstal, Ukraine’s largest single steel mill.
Yushchenko unwound the deal and, in 2005, re-sold the mill to
billionaire  Lakshmi Mittal ’s steelmaker for $4.8 billion.  In 2010, Yanukovych was elected President and not long
after Akhmetov’s business began to expand once again, including
the purchase from private owners of two competing steel mills,
MMK Ilyich and Zaporizhstal, which boosted the company’s 2011
revenue by 52 percent to more than $14 billion.  By the Numbers  Akhmetov’s 100 percent ownership of DTEK and his 71 percent
stake in Metinvest today make up more than $16 billion of his
total net worth.  DTEK is valued by taking the average of enterprise value-
to-Ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization) and price-to-earnings multiples of five publicly-
traded energy peers, including  Dniproenergo (DNEN) ,  Coal Energy SA (CLE) ,
 Tauron Polska Energia SA (TPE) ,  CEZ AS (CEZ)  and OJSC Irkutskenergo. The
figures used for DTEK are forecasts for 2012 provided by
Concorde Capital, a Ukraine-based investment bank that follows
the company, while those used for its peers are the latest
available results.  Metinvest is valued using the average enterprise value-to-
Ebitda multiple of  ArcelorMittal (MT) ,  Evraz Plc (EVR) , Eregli Demir VE
Celik Fabrik,  OAO Novolipetsk Steel (NLMK)  and OAO Severstal.  Akhmetov’s other investments total more than $2 billion.
His telecommunications investments in Vega Telecom and Astelit
were valued by using a combination of enterprise value-to-
Ebitda, enterprise value-to-sales and price-to-earnings
multiples of publicly traded peers, including  Turkcell Iletisim
Hizmetleri AS (TCELL)  and  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)   His 100 percent ownership of First Ukrainian International
Bank was valued by taking the average price-to-book value
multiple of publicly traded peers, including JSCB Ukrsotsbank
and PAT Raiffeisen Bank Aval. His 100 percent stake in Mining
Machines Company was valued by using the price-to-earnings and
enterprise value-to-sales multiples of peers that include  Famur
SA (FMF) ,  Outotec Oyj (OTE1V)  and  ERA Mining Machinery Ltd. (8043)   A New Generation  Akhemtov’s Ukrainian commercial real estate investments are
valued at more than $100 million, while his agricultural
holdings are worth more than $750 million.  The tycoon made an early move toward succession when he
tapped his oldest son, Damir, to sit on DTEK’s board of
directors in December and to join Metinevst’s board of directors
in April. The 23-year-old studied in Le Rosey school in
 Switzerland  and  City University  of London, and in 2010 earned a
masters’ degree in finance from Sir John Cass Business School in
London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  