-- Romania Keeps Rate Unchanged at 5.25% on Political Turmoil
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-05-02T14:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/romania-keeps-key-rate-unchanged-at-5-25-on-political-turmoil.html
Romania’s central bank kept its main
 interest rate  unchanged for the first time in eight months,
halting a series of cuts after the currency plunged because of
increased political risks.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei left its monetary-policy
rate at 5.25 percent, the Bucharest-based bank said today in an
e-mailed statement. Six economists surveyed by Bloomberg after
the government fell on April 27 forecast no change in rates. The
median estimate of a survey of 17 economists prior to the
turmoil expected a quarter-point cut.  The political turmoil in the Balkan country triggered a
sell-off in the country’s currency, which fell to an all-time
low against the euro on May 1 and prompted policy makers to
shield the leu after lowering borrowing costs by one percentage
point over four meetings to boost faltering economic growth,
helped by a record-low inflation rate.  “Judging by the inflation rate, there’s probably more room
for rate cuts, but the domestic and international situations are
more complicated,” Governor Mugur Isarescu told reporters after
the decision. “Both the restructuring of the European banking
system and domestic political developments have put us in the
position to interrupt the rate-cutting cycle.”  Leu Rebounds  The leu rebounded from its weakest on record against the
euro today, gaining as much as 0.5 percent to 4.4138 per euro
and was trading at 4.4165 by 5:30 p.m. in Bucharest. The leu
reached an all-time intraday low of 4.4620 yesterday after the
government collapse, mainly driven by London- and New York-based
investors as the Romanian market was closed for a public
holiday, Isarescu said.  “We are carefully watching the leu moves and we can hardly
say the current level is high, it’s only a bit higher as we are
talking about a depreciation of only 2 percent since December,”
Isarescu said. “The leu has stabilized on its own today even
though it breached a psychological ceiling of 4.4 per euro.”  Governments are crumbling across the European Union as
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  pushes for austerity to prevent
the euro area from breaking up and a debt crisis from spreading.
The ouster of Prime Minister Mihai-Razvan Ungureanu took place
as the  International Monetary Fund  and the EU were reviewing the
country’s progress under a precautionary-loan accord.  Ending Cycle  The central bank is considering a scenario to end its
easing cycle, “even though it’s not a desirable outcome,”
depending on domestic and international factors, Isarescu said.  Today’s decision signals that “policy makers care more
about the markets than about the economy, they don’t want
financial havoc,” said Aurelija Augulyte, an emerging-market
economist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen.  The bank also left its minimum  reserve requirements  on
foreign-exchange deposits at 20 percent and the ratio for leu
deposits at 15 percent, according to the statement. The bank
also approved its quarterly inflation report, which will be made
public during a press conference on May 8.  The leu decline will have a limited impact of 0.1
percentage points to 0.2 percentage points on the country’s
inflation rate, which will probably drop to around 2 percent by
May from 2.4 percent in March, Isarescu said.  President Traian Basescu moved to limit the turmoil after
the no-confidence vote designating Victor Ponta, the head of the
opposition  Social Democrats , as Prime Minister, giving him 10
days to draw up his governing plan. He will seek a vote of
confidence in Parliament on May 7.  Romania , which secured a 5 billion-euro ($6.6 billion)
precautionary loan from the IMF and the EU in 2011 to protect it
from the debt crisis, is trying to reassure investors it will
keep fiscal discipline and cut the  budget deficit  to 1.9 percent
of  gross domestic product  this year after 4.4 percent in 2011.
It hasn’t drawn any funds so far.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  