-- Romney Refuses to See China Progress on Yuan
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-05-02T15:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/romney-refuses-to-see-china-progress-on-yuan.html
The  yuan ’s 23 percent rally against
the dollar in the past five years doesn’t impress Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , who vows on the campaign
trail to brand China a “currency manipulator.”  The view is more tempered in Washington, where Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner praises China for letting the yuan
trade more freely. Lawmakers from Romney’s own party, including
House Speaker  John Boehner  and Representative Dave Camp, say a
Senate-backed bill punishing China for undervaluing the currency
to boost exports ignores such issues as intellectual-property
theft and might prompt a trade war.  As Geithner and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton head to
Beijing this week for talks with China’s leaders, the yuan is
losing its place as the key source of friction in U.S.-China
economic relations, leaving the most provocative American
rhetoric behind the curve.  The U.S.  trade deficit  with China shrank to $19.4 billion
on a monthly basis in February, the least since March 2011. U.S.
goods exports to China have almost doubled in the past five
years, climbing to a  record  $104 billion last year.  In terms of appreciation of their currency, “quite a bit
has taken place,”  Christine Lagarde , managing director of the
 International Monetary Fund , said during an April 20 discussion
in Washington with  Charlie Rose . A narrowing in the country’s
current-account surplus is “already a major change, so things
are heading in the right directions,” she said. “It’s typical
of the Chinese policy to take one step at a time.”  ‘More Persistent’  The surplus, the broadest measure of trade in goods and
services, fell to  2.8 percent  of gross domestic product last
year from 10 percent in 2007 as the currency rallied, commodity
costs rose and recessions in developed markets cut export
demand. The reversal was “sharper and more persistent than
expected,” the IMF said in April.  It also pushed the surplus below the 4 percent level
Geithner said in October 2010 was “likely to emerge as the
basic benchmark countries look to” for judging whether
imbalances are excessive.  The Obama administration may focus more on persuading the
world’s second-largest economy to better respect patents and
curb handouts to state-owned companies as the  yuan ’s value
becomes less of an issue. While Geithner said in an April 26
speech that the yuan “needs to appreciate further,” he only
briefly mentioned the currency, emphasizing that the government
should loosen controls on the financial system.  Wrong Focus  The yuan “increasingly looks like the wrong focus,” and
the U.S. has a stronger case to make on China’s subsidies and
lack of intellectual-property protection, said Stephen Green,
head of greater China research for Standard Chartered Plc in
 Hong Kong .  The median forecasts of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News show the yuan appreciating to 6.16 per dollar by year-end
and 6.05 in 2013 from 6.3102 on April 27. The currency gained
0.05 percent today to close at 6.3070 in Shanghai after rising
as much as 0.19 percent earlier, the most in two weeks.  While  China  has shown “good progress” in making the
currency more flexible, “I expect there will still be pressure
from U.S. politicians, given this is an election year,” Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist in Hong Kong at Nomura Holdings
Inc., said in an e-mail.  Romney has promised to go after the nation more
aggressively because he says Obama has failed to “take China to
the mat.”  ‘Unfair’ Practices  “If I’m president, I will label China a currency
manipulator and apply tariffs” wherever needed “to stop them
from unfair trade practices,” the former Massachusetts governor
said during a March campaign rally in Cleveland.  Such practices, “from intellectual-property theft to
market-access restrictions to currency manipulation, are
undermining the international trading system and hurting
American businesses and workers,” Romney spokeswoman Andrea Saul said in an April 27 e-mail.  The Treasury Department is required to report twice a year
on  exchange-rate  policies of major trading partners and enter
into direct talks with those it designates as manipulators. The
last such country was China, in 1994.  Lawmakers in Congress also are taking aim at the yuan.
Democrats, including Representative Sander Levin of Michigan,
have urged the House to take up a bill passed in the Senate last
year to let companies seek tariffs compensating for the
currency’s value.  ‘Dangerous’ Measure  Boehner, of Ohio, has called the measure “dangerous” and
said it could cause China to retaliate. In an April 25 interview
with CNBC, Geithner also mentioned “the risk of a trade war”
from labeling China a currency manipulator.  Representative Camp, who heads the House Ways and Means
Committee that deals with trade, said the Senate-backed bill is
“too narrow.” While the Obama administration should apply more
pressure to allow the yuan to appreciate, “we need to look at
our range of issues with China,” the Michigan Republican told
reporters April 26. The currency’s rise is “a positive trend,”
he said.  Obama is no apologist for China, having set up a new
enforcement panel to combat unfair trade practices by
governments including Beijing. Obama also has filed six
 complaints  with the  World Trade Organization  against China since
taking office three years ago, compared with seven by former
President George W. Bush from 2001, when China joined the
Geneva-based trade arbiter, through the end of his term in
January 2009.  Taking Action  Obama said March 13 that that while the U.S. prefers
“dialogue” on trade issues, “I will take action if our
workers and our businesses are being subjected to unfair
practices.”  Geithner and Clinton are scheduled to be in Beijing
tomorrow and May 4 to meet with officials including Vice Premier
 Wang Qishan  and State Councilor Dai Bingguo. U.S. Trade
Representative  Ron Kirk  also is slated to attend the talks.  The currency is “the wrong issue, and it’s time for a more
enlightened approach to U.S.-China trade and economic
relationships,” Stephen Roach, a senior fellow at  Yale
University  in New Haven, Connecticut, and former chairman of
Morgan Stanley Asia, said. “It’s ludicrous to think that
America is being squeezed because of a bilateral trade imbalance
with China. We have trade deficits with 88 countries.”  Chen Escape  The threat of a diplomatic incident between the U.S. and
China hasn’t derailed the meeting so far, with Assistant
Secretary of State Kurt Campbell dispatched to Beijing early to
prepare for the gathering. Blind human-rights activist  Chen
Guangcheng  -- who sought shelter last week at the U.S. Embassy
after fleeing house arrest -- was escorted by American diplomats
to a hospital today as the two sides worked out a deal to
resolve a case that threatened to upset the talks.  Chen, an advocate for villagers who resist forced
abortions, said he didn’t want asylum abroad and was reunited
with his family after U.S. Ambassador Gary Locke took him to the
Beijing hospital, American officials told reporters on condition
of anonymity. China promised Chen will be treated humanely, the
officials said. The foreign ministry demanded the U.S. apologize
for allowing him into the embassy.  The Chinese government’s steps toward letting the currency
trade more freely include giving markets a bigger role in
setting the exchange rate. The central bank on April 16 widened
the yuan’s trading band against the dollar to 1 percent from a
daily range of 0.5 percent in place since 2007.  Limited Impact  Since then, the yuan has weakened 0.11 percent and the new
trading band has been used only once, on April 27, showing the
measure has had limited impact.  China also is moving to boost its currency’s global role,
setting up Hong Kong as an offshore hub for yuan-denominated
trades and investment. Sales of so-called Dim Sum bonds almost
tripled to 52.2 billion yuan ($8.3 billion) in the first quarter
from a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
HSBC Holdings Plc last month became the first European bank to
list yuan bonds in  London .  The value of the currency, which contributed to last year’s
record $295 billion  U.S. trade deficit  with China, was cited as
a barrier to U.S. growth by two-thirds of investors, traders and
analysts in the December Bloomberg Global Poll. After the
longest period of unemployment  above 8 percent  since the Great
Depression, American voters also consistently tell pollsters the
economy is their top issue in the 2012 campaign.  Tight Election Race  The risk “for U.S.-China relations is that in a tight U.S.
election race, China will become a focus for both Romney and
Obama to out-gun each other,” Alistair Thornton, an economist
in Beijing at IHS Global Insight, said in an e-mail. With the
jobless rate “running a lot higher than desired, fairly or
unfairly, China becomes an easy political target.”  Even after strengthening, China’s currency remains
undervalued by at least 12 percent, based on estimates compiled
in a December report by the Congressional Research Service. A
Bloomberg Government Study the same month found that a 7 percent
annual increase in the real value of the yuan would cut the U.S.
trade deficit with China in half by the end of 2014.  Companies competing with low-cost Chinese imports, such as
Benton Harbor, Michigan-based appliance maker  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) ,
or that serve China’s growing market, including  General Motors
Co. (GM)  in Detroit, would be helped if the yuan continues to
appreciate. Manufacturers including  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  in El Segundo,
California, would be hurt by the higher cost of Chinese-made
products they sell.  Barbie-Doll Maker  A stronger Chinese currency contributes to increases in
input costs that executives at the Barbie-doll maker “work very
hard every year” to try to offset, Mattel Chief Financial
Officer Kevin Farr said in February.  Even so, Ted Dean, chairman of the  American Chamber of
Commerce  in China, which represents more than 1,200 companies,
said his group’s biggest policy concerns include the investment-
approval process, intellectual-property rights and transparency
in rule making -- not the yuan.  “You can push for currency or push for something else,”
Dean said in an April 25 interview. “We would argue that
pushing for something else is more productive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  