-- Romney’s Conflicting Tax Goals Make Burden Shift Likely
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-05-02T14:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/romney-s-conflicting-tax-goals-make-burden-shift-likely.html
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ’s tax plan rests on a set of principles that, taken
together, are difficult to reconcile.  Romney wants to reduce individual income tax rates by 20
percent, keep preferential rates for capital gains and
dividends, broaden the tax base to limit revenue loss, and
retain the tax-burden distribution across income groups.  Those goals are in conflict and will require that Romney
consider limiting or eliminating the tax breaks for charitable
deductions and home mortgage interest, said  Martin Sullivan ,
contributing editor at Tax Analysts in  Falls Church , Virginia.  “As soon as he gets in, he’s going to have to start
backpedaling big-time on all of his promises,” Sullivan said.
“It’s just not doable under any conceivable, realistic
scenario.”  Romney hasn’t provided many details about his tax plan,
such as which tax breaks he would curtail or end. He has
suggested that tax benefits might be available to middle-income
families though not upper-income families, without defining
those income levels.  “We’re not going to shift the burden from middle-income
people to higher-income people,” Romney said in an April 16
interview with ABC News. At the same time, he said, “I’m not
looking for tax cuts for the rich.”  28 Percent Rate  Romney proposes reducing all individual income tax rates,
dropping the top rate to 28 percent from 35 percent and the
bottom rate to 8 percent from 10 percent. He would end taxation
of investment income for households making less than $200,000 a
year and keep the 15 percent rate for  capital gains  and
dividends for taxpayers above those levels. He also would
eliminate the estate tax and the alternative minimum tax.  Keeping the tax code’s progressive distribution among
income brackets may be difficult without compromising some of
these objectives. The lower rate on investment income rate is
the most significant tax break for the very wealthiest
taxpayers, and promising to protect that means that Romney has
limited ways to offset the rate cuts for that group.  “The top 5 percent, the top 10 percent, the top 25
percent, we’ll look across the code at the various categories of
taxpayers and see if they’re continuing to pay the approximately
the same share that they have in the past,” Romney  said on CNBC
March 7 .  All Taxes Considered  Romney will consider all federal taxes, including income,
payroll, estate and corporate taxes, economic adviser  Glenn Hubbard  said in an April 30 interview. Hubbard noted that
economists differ on which income groups bear the burden of some
of those taxes.  Because almost half of all households don’t pay income
taxes, Romney’s proposed rate cuts won’t benefit them and their
other taxes would be largely unchanged. Instead, his plan would
shift the burden within the upper-income half: those who get
more tax benefits now would pay more taxes and those who get
fewer would pay less.  Romney, who made $21.6 million in adjusted gross income in
2010, paid a 13.9 percent tax rate, according to tax returns he
released, because most of his income came from investments. With
a fortune estimated at as much as $250 million, he would benefit
from eliminating the estate tax, now 35 percent with a $5.1
million exemption per person.  “He’s the first president who would massively cut his own
taxes,” Sullivan said.  Obama’s Proposal  In contrast, President  Barack Obama  has proposed that high-
income taxpayers pay higher tax rates on wages, capital gains
and dividends. He would limit their deductions and prevent tax
increases for married couples making less than $250,000 a year
and individuals making less than $200,000.  Under Obama’s most recent budget, taxpayers in the top 1
percent would have an average tax increase of $93,707 in 2013,
according to the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center in  Washington .
The middle 20 percent of taxpayers would receive an average tax
cut of $40.  As evidence that Romney’s plan is feasible, Hubbard pointed
to  a report  by the co-chairmen of the 2010 bipartisan fiscal
commission, Erskine Bowles and  Alan Simpson , which also set a
top 28 percent tax rate.  “You have a clear road map in Bowles-Simpson,” Hubbard
said.  Deficit Commission Plan  Unlike Romney’s plan, the deficit commission’s proposal
called for eliminating corporate tax breaks alongside rate
reduction and ending the break for investment income. It
suggested limiting tax breaks for charitable contributions,
mortgage interest, retirement savings and health insurance.  The highest earners -- including Romney -- would benefit
most from several of his proposals that differ from the Bowles-
Simpson approach. Those include repealing the estate tax,
cutting the corporate tax rate to 25 percent from 35 percent,
and keeping the 15 percent tax rate on capital gains and
dividends.  The  Tax Policy Center  estimated how  Romney’s policies  would
affect different income groups, without the reductions in tax
breaks he has yet to spell out.  Under Romney’s plan as announced, the top 20 percent of
taxpayers would receive an average tax cut of $16,134, compared
with what they are paying now. The top 0.1 percent -- those with
incomes exceeding $2.9 million in 2015 -- would get an average
tax cut of $725,716.  Middle-Class Burden  An estimate being released this week by the  Brookings
Institution ’s  Hamilton Project  shows how hard it is to cut the
top income tax rate without losing revenue or causing the middle
class to pay a larger share.  To reduce the top rate to 23 percent -- below Romney’s 28
percent target -- and generate today’s revenue would require
eliminating almost every tax break, including those for
employer-sponsored health insurance, retirement savings and
municipal bonds, capital gains and dividends.  A 27 percent top rate would allow some benefits for
mortgage interest and health insurance to remain.  “You can only get rates down so far before you start
losing revenues or really changing the progressivity of the tax
schedule,” said Adam Looney, the Hamilton Project policy
director, who helped develop the analysis. He was an economist
at the Federal Reserve Board and the White House Council of
Economic Advisers under Obama.  Larger Share  The current income tax system requires higher-income people
to pay a larger share of taxes. In 2009, the top 10 percent of
taxpayers received 43.2 percent of adjusted gross income and
paid 70.5 percent of income taxes. Their percentage of taxes
paid is lower if the calculation includes payroll taxes, which
pay for Social Security and Medicare.  Ending the tax preference for investment income would
reduce the after-tax income of the top 0.1 percent by 7.5
percent, compared with 0.9 percent for all Americans, according
to the  Tax Policy Center .  A Romney-style plan “theoretically could be progressive
between the upper-middle class and the affluent, compared to the
middle class,” said Edward Kleinbard, former chief of staff at
the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation. “But it will not
address the progressivity of the super-affluent with a 15
percent tax rate.”  Retaining the current progressive tax burden without
changing capital gains rates is difficult, if not impossible,
said Eric Toder, co-director of the Tax Policy Center.  “What you’d have to do is tax gains and dividends as
ordinary income, because that’s where the very big preferences
are,” he said. “That’s just the math.”  ‘Aggressive’ on Deductions  For the group between the top 1 percent and the bottom 50
percent, the outlines of Romney’s plan are more achievable.  “There’s a huge amount of money that can be thrown back
into the pot if you’re willing to be very aggressive about
personal itemized deductions,” said Kleinbard, now a law
professor at the University of  Southern California  in  Los
Angeles .  Repealing all  itemized deductions  would reduce after-tax
income by 1.7 percent, by 2.7 percent for the top 20 percent,
and by 3 percent for the top 1 percent of taxpayers, according
to the Tax Policy Center. That means those breaks are less
tilted toward the highest-income taxpayers than the preference
for investment income.  Romney made his clearest comments about broadening the tax
base at an April 15 fundraiser, when reporters overheard him
talking about eliminating the state and local tax deduction and
the mortgage interest deduction for top earners’ second homes.  ‘Up Their Sleeve’  Those changes wouldn’t be nearly enough to make up the
revenue loss from his proposed tax cuts.  “I just don’t see where the numbers add up,” Toder said.
“Maybe they’ve got something up their sleeve I haven’t seen.”  The focus on maintaining the current distribution of the
tax burden is misguided because of income mobility, said Scott Hodge, president of the  Tax Foundation , a Washington group that
favors a simpler  tax code  with lower rates. He said more than 70
percent of people on the  Internal Revenue Service ’s list of the
 400 highest incomes  between 1992 and 2008 made the list only
once.  “Trying to tax any particular group is really trying to
tax a snapshot of people as they move through it,” Hodge said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  