-- Rovi Sues Mitsubishi Electric Over TV Program Guide Patents
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-05-02T17:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/rovi-sues-mitsubishi-electric-over-patents-for-program-guides.html
Rovi Corp. (ROVI) , a provider of digital
entertainment guides, sued three television makers claiming
infringement of patents for its technology and parental-control
chips that block television content.  Rovi argues that  Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503) ,  LG Electronics
Inc. (066570)  and Vizio Inc., the first American brand in over a decade
to lead in LCD high-definition TV sales in the U.S.,
misappropriated its on-screen guides that allow users to browse
channel listing and upcoming shows, according to a complaint
filed yesterday in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware.  The companies’ alleged infringement “presents significant
and ongoing damages to Rovi’s business,” lawyers for the Santa
Clara, California-based company said in court papers. “Rovi’s
long-term financial success depends on its ability to establish,
maintain, and protect its proprietary technology through
enforcement of its  patent rights .”  Rovi contends that Tokyo-based Mitsubishi Electric is
violating three of its patents, according to court documents.
Two patents cover viewing the TV program schedule and “on-
demand” content. Another patent involves “V-chip” technology
that restricts access to certain shows or networks deemed
inappropriate.  ITC Complaint  The company argues that LG, based in Seoul, Korea, is
infringing five patents including three of the four asserted
against  Irvine , California-based Vizio.  Rovi also filed a U.S. International Trade Commission
complaint yesterday against the three companies as well as
Netflix Inc. and Roku Inc. alleging infringement of as many as
seven patents.  The complaint accuses the companies of infringing patents
related to the interactive program guides. The complaint seeks
an order banning television and media-player makers from
entering the U.S. Civil suits involving the same patents
challenged in the ITC case will be put on hold until the trade
agency completes its investigation.  Mark Scott, a spokesman for Mitsubishi Electric U.S.,
declined to comment on the lawsuit. Jim Noyd, a spokesman for
Vizio, and  John Taylor , a spokesman for LG, weren’t immediately
available to respond to phone calls seeking comment.  Rovi is asking for jury trials and unspecified damages
based on the companies’ importation or sales of television sets,
according to court papers. The company said in the complaint
that any damages awarded should be tripled, claiming the
infringement was “willful and deliberate.”  The cases are Rovi v. Mitsubishi Electric Corp.,
12-cv-547); Rovi v. LG Electronics Inc., 12-cv-545; Rovi v.
Vizio Inc., 12-cv-546, all U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington). The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain
Products Containing Interactive Program Guide and Parental
Control Technology, Complaint No. 2894, U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 