-- Rubber Gains to Three-Week High as U.S. Data Lift Demand Outlook
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-05-02T08:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/rubber-gains-to-three-week-high-as-u-s-data-lift-demand-outlook.html
Rubber advanced to the highest
settlement in three weeks after data showed manufacturing in the
U.S. grew and auto sales topped analysts’ forecasts, boosting
the demand outlook for the commodity used in tires.  The October-delivery contract gained 0.6 percent to end at
315.8 yen a kilogram ($3,921 a metric ton), the highest close
since April 10. The most-active price climbed for a fifth day
today, the best run since the period to Jan. 20.  Asian stocks extended a global rally after the  Institute
for Supply Management ’s  factory index  climbed to 54.8 last month,
exceeding the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey,
the group’s report showed yesterday. The U.S. data followed a
report yesterday that showed manufacturing in  China , the world’s
largest rubber consumer, expanded at the fastest pace in a year.  “Better-than-expected figures from the U.S. improved
 market sentiment , spurring investors to buy back futures,”
 Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at broker Fujitomi Co. in  Tokyo , said
today by phone.  Chrysler Group LLC led the five largest automakers by U.S.
sales in exceeding analysts’ estimates for April, according to
researcher Autodata Corp. Total light-vehicle sales gained 2.3
percent to 1.18 million, according to Autodata. The seasonally
adjusted annual rate was 14.4 million, topping the average 14.3
million estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Futures were also bought as the yen retreated from a two-
month high against the dollar, boosting the appeal of contracts
denominated in the Japanese currency, Saito said. The Japanese
currency weakened as much as 0.7 percent against the greenback.  Thai rubber  on a free-on-board basis climbed 0.8 percent to
120.20 baht ($3.90) a kilogram today, according to the Rubber
Research Institute of Thailand. Prices were boosted as rain in
the south, the main growing area, disrupted tapping, it said.  September-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
gained 0.3 percent to close at 27,305  yuan  ($4,331) a ton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  