-- U.S. to Counter Russia Missile-Defense Stance in Moscow
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-05-03T01:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/russia-to-detail-u-s-missile-plan-s-threat-to-nuclear-deterrent.html
The U.S. will defend its European
missile-defense plans against  Russia ’s objections in the
challenger’s capital this week as a State Department delegation
attends a conference aimed at disputing the system.  “We believe this exchange will allow the  United States  in
particular to provide in a very public way the reasons that the
missile defenses that the United States is developing” aren’t
aimed at Russia, Madelyn Creedon, assistant secretary of defense
for global strategic affairs, said today on a conference call
with reporters.  The eight-member U.S. delegation seeks to counter Russia’s
opposition to the system, which was embraced by the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization in 2010, as longtime critic
 Vladimir Putin  prepares to return to the Russian presidency next
week. President  Barack Obama ’s administration has said it will
proceed with the project to protect  Europe  against potential
attacks from  Iran .  “These talks are fraught with history, and with a lot of
baggage on both sides,” Ellen Tauscher, the U.S. special envoy
for strategic stability and missile defense, said on the
conference call with Creedon from Moscow. “There’s nothing I
can imagine that will stop us from making those deployments on
time.”  Russia is trying to do so. Deputy Defense Minister Anatoly Antonov said Russia will present what it considers the danger of
the planned U.S. missile shield in Europe through a computer
simulation.  Poland, Romania, Turkey  The computer modeling will show the threat Russia’s nuclear
deterrent faces, including to its sites in  Poland ,  Romania  and
 Turkey , Antonov said in an  interview  with Rossiiskaya Gazeta,
the government’s official newspaper.  “We’ve never shown visual information of this kind to
anyone,” Antonov told the newspaper. Russia’s aerospace defense
forces will make two presentations to dispel doubts about the
potency of the country’s arsenal, he said.  The two-day Russian Defense Ministry event will feature
representatives of more than 50 countries, including the U.S.
and major European and Asian powers. The NATO delegation will be
led by Alexander Vershbow, the alliance’s deputy secretary
general, Antonov said.  Russia has said the U.S.-led plan may provoke a new arms
race and upset a strategic balance in the region. President
 Dmitry Medvedev  ordered the military last November to prepare to
“destroy” the system’s command capability and threatened to
station strike missiles on its southern and western flanks to
counter the shield.  ‘Rethink Consequences’  The conference will serve as a warning ahead of NATO’s
summit next month in  Chicago , “forcing our colleagues to
rethink the consequences” of new steps such as measures to
further integrate missile defense between alliance members,
Antonov said.  White House National Security Adviser Tom Donilon is
scheduled to visit Russia for meetings tomorrow and May 4 with
senior Russian officials, the Obama administration said in a
statement.  The meetings will cover “key issues” in relations between
the U.S. and Russia, Tommy Vietor, a White House spokesman, said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Legal Assurances  Russian officials have demanded the U.S. provide legal
assurances, while the U.S. has said it wouldn’t agree to any
limits on its planned system and could provide only “political
statements” that the plans aren’t intended to weaken Russia’s
strategic deterrence.  “We continue to seek solutions to address” the Russian
concerns, Creedon said. “But we continue to believe the best
way to address them is through cooperation and not
confrontation.”  Obama and other U.S. officials have made clear they don’t
expect to resolve the dispute this year, considering the
political sensitivity of the topic during election seasons in
both countries.  Microphones recorded Obama in March asking Russian
President Dmitry Medvedev for patience on missile defense
negotiations until after the November election and saying he’d
have “more flexibility” afterwards.  The comment became an issue in the U.S. election campaign,
with Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  accusing Obama of having a
hidden agenda for his second term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  