-- MTS Climbs to Nine-Month High as India Buyout Concern Fades
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-05-02T15:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/mts-climbs-to-nine-month-high-as-india-buyout-concern-fades-1-.html
OAO Mobile TeleSystems climbed to a
nine-month high as investors increased bets  Russia ’s biggest
mobile operator won’t have to buy controlling shareholder AFK
Sistema’s Indian mobile-phone business.  MTS added 2.1 percent to 238.28 rubles by the close in
Moscow, the highest price since Aug. 2 and a fifth day of gains.
Russian markets reopened today after public holidays on April 30
and May 1.  Sistema -- which  owns  30.79 percent of MTS according to
data compiled by Bloomberg -- is contesting a decision made on
Feb. 2 by the  Supreme Court  of  India  revoking 21 of the 22
licenses held by Shyam TeleServices Ltd., which sells mobile-
phone services in India under the MTS brand. The company may
sell the Indian unit, Evgeniy Chuikov, head of  investor
relations , said during an earnings conference call on April 26.  “Investors were concerned that Sistema may want MTS to
merge with its Indian unit, so this news is creating positive
sentiment,” Ksenia Arutyunova, an analyst at Rye MAN & Gor
Securities in Moscow, said by phone.  Moscow-based MTS has a history of purchasing assets from
Sistema.  The company acquired CJSC Sistema-Inventure, which owns 29
percent of the Moscow City Telephone Network, for 10.6 billion
rubles ($342 million), according to a Dec. 1  statement  on its
website. As part of the deal, MTS agreed to repay 10.4 billion
rubles of debt Sistema-Inventure owed to AFK Sistema.  Fourth-Quarter Loss  “We’re not married to this asset whatever happens, this is
not our position,” Chuikov said during the conference call on
April 26.  Russian billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov’s investment
company reported a fourth-quarter net loss of $530 million on
April 26, largely because of an impairment charge from the Shyam
license cancellations.  Excluding unrepeated items, Sistema said it had net income
of $261 million in the period compared with $90.7 million a year
earlier. Revenue rose 15 percent to $8.4 billion from a year
earlier, the Moscow-based company said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in  New York  at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  