-- Saints Linebacker Vilma Lands Season Ban for Role in Bounty Case
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-05-03T04:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/saints-linebacker-vilma-suspended-for-nfl-season-in-bounty-case.html
Jonathan Vilma was banned for the 2012
National Football League season without pay for his role in the
 New Orleans Saints ’ bounty program.  The league also suspended defensive lineman Anthony Hargrove, now with the  Green Bay Packers , for the first eight
games of next season;  Will Smith , the Saints’ defensive end, for
four games; and Scott Fujita, a linebacker now with the
 Cleveland Browns , for three games.  “The specific discipline was determined by Commissioner
Roger Goodell after a thorough review of extensive evidence
corroborated by multiple independent sources,” the NFL said in
a statement.  Linebacker Vilma was scheduled to earn $1.6 million in
salary from the Saints in 2012, while Smith and Hargrove were
due to receive $825,000 each. Fujita was scheduled for $3.65
million in salary this season, according to the NFL Players
Association.  The players have three days to appeal.  “After seeing the NFL’s decision letters, the NFLPA has
still not received any detailed or specific evidence from the
league of these specific players’ involvement in an alleged pay-
to-injure program,”  DeMaurice Smith , the union’s executive
director, said in a separate statement. “We have made it clear
that punishment without evidence is not fair. We have spoken
with our players and their representatives and we will
vigorously protect and pursue all options on their behalf.”  No Arbitration  Unlike some other major U.S. professional sports unions,
the NFL players didn’t negotiate a right to seek independent
arbitration for punishments into the collective bargaining
agreement they signed in July.  Because the NFL chose to consider the player infractions as
an off-the-field issue, they can only appeal Goodell’s ruling
back to him, according to Gabe Feldman, director of the Sports
Law Program at  Tulane University  in  New Orleans .  “They have a limited right to challenge,” Feldman said in
a telephone interview. “They certainly can go to court but
courts will give great deference to the commissioner’s
decision.”  The probable legal argument for the players would be that
Goodell exceeded the scope of his authority under the labor deal,
according to Feldman.  “The players have already threatened to bring legal action
and it wouldn’t surprise me if they do, but it’s going to be a
difficult argument to make,” Feldman said.  Stiffest Punishment  The NFL on March 21 handed down the stiffest punishment
ever imposed on a team and its leadership for the 2009-11 bounty
program. Saints coach  Sean Payton  was suspended for an entire
season, General Manager Mickey Loomis was given a half-season
suspension, assistant coach  Joe Vitt  received a six-game ban and
the franchise was stripped of two draft picks and fined $500,000.  Former Saints defensive coordinator  Gregg Williams , who now
holds that position for the  St. Louis Rams , was suspended
indefinitely for administering the program.  “The investigation concluded that, while a captain of the
defensive unit, Vilma assisted coach Williams in establishing
and funding the program,” the NFL said. “Multiple independent
sources also confirmed that Vilma offered a specific bounty --
$10,000 in cash -- to any player who knocked  Arizona  quarterback
Kurt Warner out of the 2009 divisional playoff game and later
pledged the same amount to anyone who knocked Minnesota
quarterback  Brett Favre  out of the 2009 NFC Championship game
the following week.”  Eight-Year Veteran  Vilma, 30, is an eight-year NFL veteran who’s played the
past four seasons for the Saints after beginning his career with
the  New York Jets . A defensive team captain in New Orleans, he
was named to the  Pro Bowl  for the 2005, 2009 and 2010 campaigns.  The league said Saints players were paid bonuses for on-
field accomplishments, including forcing turnovers and injuring
opponents. All such payments violate NFL rules on non-contract
bonuses.  Players funded a bounty pool that paid $1,500 for a
“knockout” in which an opposing player was unable to return to
the game and $1,000 for a “cart-off” in which opponents were
carried off the field, according to the NFL. Payments doubled or
tripled during the playoffs. The Saints won the  Super Bowl  after
the 2009 season.  Favre Was Targeted  Vilma was the only player initially named by the NFL, which
said it wanted to consult with the NFL Players Association
before handing down player punishments.  “Multiple sources have confirmed that several players
pledged funds toward bounties on specific opposing players, with
defensive captain Jonathan Vilma offering $10,000 to any player
who knocked Brett Favre out of the NFL Championship Game in
2010,” the league said in March.  Williams repeatedly encouraged his players to injure
members of the  San Francisco 49ers  in a speech on the eve of
their playoff game last season that was recorded by filmmaker
Sean Pamphilon.  Pamphilon, who had been given access to various team
functions for much of the 2011 season, released the obscenity-
laced audio on the same day Payton, Loomis and Vitt
unsuccessfully appealed their penalties before NFL Commissioner
 Roger Goodell  in New York.  ‘Full Responsibility’  Williams took full responsibility for his role in the
bounty program, saying in a statement on March 21 that “it was
a terrible mistake, and we knew it was wrong when we were doing
it.”  Fujita, 33, is a 10-year NFL linebacker who played for the
Saints from 2006-2009. He joined the Browns in 2010 and is a
member of the NFLPA’s executive committee.  Fujita “pledged a significant amount of money to the
prohibited pay-for-performance/bounty pool during the 2009 NFL
playoffs, when he played for the Saints,” the NFL said.  Hargrove, 28, was given half-season ban after he obstructed
the NFL’s initial investigation in 2010 by lying to
investigators, the league said.  Smith helped Williams establish and fund the bounty program
while he was a captain of the Saints’ defensive unit, the NFL
said.  “In assessing player discipline, I focused on players who
were in leadership positions at the Saints; contributed a
particularly large sum of money toward the program; specifically
contributed to a bounty on an opposing player; demonstrated a
clear intent to participate in a program that potentially
injured opposing players; sought rewards for doing so; and/or
obstructed the 2010 investigation,” Goodell said.  Running back Paul Hornung and defensive lineman Alex Karras
in 1963 received the then-longest player suspensions in NFL
history, full-season bans for betting on NFL games and
associating with undesirable people. They were reinstated the
following year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  