-- Samsung No. 1 Raises Pressure on Apple for IPhone Choices: Tech
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-05-03T09:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/samsung-no-1-raises-pressure-on-apple-for-iphone-choices-tech.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  regained the
lead in smartphones from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in the first quarter of this
year. One of its weapons: screens of many different sizes.  Samsung sells at least  13 smartphones  with screens ranging
from 2.8 inches on the Replenish to 5.3 inches on the  Galaxy
Note . Apple, which has always believed in a limited number of
models, offers only a 3.5-inch display on its two iPhones.
Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung is testing the tablet market as
well with a similar plan.  The different strategies -- and the success of Samsung’s --
has led analysts including London-based Neil Mawston at  Strategy
Analytics  to speculate that Apple will have to expand its line
at some point. Samsung also ended the 14-year reign of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) 
as the world’s biggest maker of all kinds of phones in the last
quarter.  “Samsung has long had a buckshot strategy for its mobile
and portable hardware,” Mawston said. “Samsung fires out
dozens of new models at high speed every year and hopes that one
or more will eventually stick.”  The maker of the Galaxy range of phones sold 93.5 million
handsets in the first quarter, 36 percent more than a year
earlier, Strategy Analytics said April 27. Nokia shipped 82.7
million, down 24 percent, and Apple sold 35.1 million units, an
89 percent increase from last year.  Samsung sold 44.5 million smartphones in the three months
ended in March, regaining the lead from Apple, according to the
researcher’s data. Smartphones let users watch video, send e-
mails, play games and surf the Web.  Product Breadth  Size is an important reason in choosing mobile devices
after  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s free  Android software  became the biggest
challenger to Apple’s iOS in the $219 billion global smartphone
market.  “What we’re seeing here is, really, Samsung gaining share
because of product breadth,” said  Mark Newman , a Hong Kong-
based  analyst  for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “They have all
different  price range  for all different people.”  Samsung plans to unveil a successor to the Galaxy S II in
 London  today.  Last week,  Asia ’s biggest consumer-electronics maker said
first-quarter profit jumped 81 percent to 5.05 trillion won
($4.5 billion) after earnings at the mobile business almost
tripled. Chinese demand for the iPhone helped Apple boost its
fiscal second-quarter profit 94 percent.  Samsung shares have gained 32 percent this year in Seoul
trading, while Apple has surged 45 percent in  New York .  Hybrid Phone-Tablet  Critical to the surge in  profit  at Samsung was the Galaxy
Note,  a hybrid  between a phone and tablet computer equipped with
a stylus to manipulate programs, photographs and text on its
screen. Since Note’s debut in October, Samsung sold more than 5
million of them.  Samsung said it expects to sell 10 million units by the end
of this year and plans to introduce more pen-equipped products
with different screen sizes.  “Screen size seems to be far more important than we
originally anticipated,” Daniel Kim, a Seoul-based analyst at
 Macquarie Group (MQG) , said in a March 28 report. “Once consumers are
used to larger screens, few go back to screens smaller than four
inches.”  Samsung counts Apple as its biggest  client  -- Apple
accounted for 7.64 percent of  Samsung’s revenue , buying chips
and displays, according to data compiled by Bloomberg -- even as
the two companies have  sued  each other across four continents,
with Apple accusing Samsung of “slavishly copying” its
products.  Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment.  ‘Market’s Needs’  “Our smartphone displays are designed to maximize the
strengths of each device and reflect the market’s needs,” Chris Jung, a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, said in an e-mail.  The multisize screen approach isn’t playing out in the
tablet market, where  Apple dominated  with 62 percent of the
market as of Dec. 31, compared with Samsung’s 9 percent,
according to estimates by  IHS Inc. (IHS)   Unlike its strategy for the  iPod music players  -- where
Apple brought out the Nano, the Mini and the Shuffle after the
original was introduced in 2001 -- the Cupertino, California-
based company has followed a one-size display for its phones and
tablets.  IPhone, IPad  The iPhone, which  debuted  in 2007, featured the same 3.5-
inch display screen as the latest iPhone 4S model, even as the
resolution improved. Similarly, the iPad tablet computer has
sported a 9.7-inch screen since then-Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Jobs  unveiled it in 2010, while the display quality
subsequently sharpened.  In contrast, Samsung’s first Galaxy Tab tablet device was
introduced in 2010 with a 7.7-inch screen, while Waterloo,
Ontario-based  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  unveiled its PlayBook with
a 7-inch display.  In addition to the 7.7-inch model, Samsung  sells  the Galaxy
in the U.S. with displays of 7 inches, 8.9 inches and 10.1
inches.  Jobs said in October 2010 that RIM would struggle to
attract application developers to support its BlackBerry
smartphone and that devices like its PlayBook tablet are “dead
on arrival” because they’re too small to compete with the iPad.  Size Speculation  Speculation has persisted that Apple will add different
screen sizes. The Maeil Business Newspaper reported in March the
iPhone 5 will have a 4.6-inch display, while the Chinese online
portal Netease reported last month that Apple is planning to
introduce a smaller iPad.  Still, “Apple could play the ‘if it’s not broke, don’t fix
it’ card,” said  Ramon Llamas , an analyst at IDC Corp. in
Framingham,  Massachusetts .  While Samsung has taken the market-share lead in unit
sales, Apple still garners most of the industry’s operating
profits, wrote  Michael Walkley , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity,
in a May 1 note. Apple accounted for 73 percent of all handset-
industry profits in the first quarter, he estimated, and Samsung
generated 26 percent, giving the duo 99 percent of the total.  One of the foundations of Apple’s success has been its
focus on developing a single iconic product with mass appeal,
rather than seek market share by having a broad portfolio of
products, said  Brian Marshall , an equity analyst with
International Strategy & Investments, in  San Francisco .  Given the fast growth in tablets and phones and Apple’s
relatively low market share in the latter, the company doesn’t
need to expand its form factors for now, Marshall said. As the
markets get more saturated, the pressure will be much stronger
to add more screen sizes.  “Today, the answer is no,” he said. “Down the road, the
answer is yes,” he said.  Mawston at Strategy Analytics agrees.  “Apple will need different screen sizes if it decides to
launch new models for lower-cost segments in the future,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  