-- Sarkozy Struggles to Land Knock-Out Blow Against Hollande
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n ,   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-05-03T10:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/sarkozy-struggles-to-land-knock-out-blow-in-debate-with-hollande.html
President Nicolas Sarkozy struggled to
make inroads against Socialist frontrunner  Francois Hollande  as
the only debate in  France ’s presidential election descended into
an exchange of insults and accusations.  Behind in the  polls  with the clock ticking on his re-
election bid, the incumbent repeatedly accused his rival of
lying, while Hollande said his opponent showed he was being
“disagreeable.”  “It’s hard to say who won, but Francois Hollande emerged
favorably because he was the frontrunner and there was nothing
last night to knock him off his perch,” said Dominique Reynie,
a senior researcher at Paris’s Institute of Political Studies.  About 17 million people watched the debate last night,
according to Reynie, or 38 percent of the electorate, less than
the 20 million in 2007. The 170-minute encounter was Sarkozy’s
last chance to turn the tide against Hollande before the May 6
runoff. Hollande led with 53 percent to 47 percent, an Ifop poll
showed yesterday. No margin of error was given.  The two candidates sat 2 1/2 meters apart in their first
face-to-face confrontation of the campaign. The event was
broadcast on eight television channels and six  radio stations .  The moderators, television newscasters Laurence Ferrari of
TF1 and David Pujadas of France2, often struggled to keep the
debate within schedule and on subject, as the two candidates
interrupted each other and talked beyond their allotted time.  Crisis Risk  The candidates clashed on how to fight Europe’s debt crisis
and how to rekindle growth with joblessness in France at the
highest level in 12 years.  Germany ’s unemployment rate is 6.8
percent, against 9.8 percent in France.  Europe faces a “possible resurgence of the crisis due to a
lack of growth,” Hollande said. France has no alternative to
cutting its debt and deficit, Sarkozy replied. “Growth, yes,
but not at the expense of cutting debt and deficit,” he said.  Sarkozy blamed the financial crisis for adding 500 billion
euros ($658 billion) to France’s national debt.  “It’s always someone else’s fault, you always find someone
else to blame,” Hollande said.  Sarkozy sought to reverse Hollande’s comment that he would
be a “normal president,” an implicit attack on the incumbent’s
character, by saying the Socialist candidate isn’t up to the
task of steering France through the economic turmoil and
contrasting him with his predecessors,  Charles de Gaulle  and
 Francois Mitterrand .  Euro Bonds  “You say you want to be normal but these are not normal
times,” Sarkozy said. “Your normality is not commensurate with
the task at hand. Being normal was not what defined presidents
such as De Gaulle and Mitterrand.”  While Hollande advocated the issue of euro bonds guaranteed
by the 17 countries using the common currency, to raise funding
for debt-strapped countries, Sarkozy reiterated his opposition
to such securities. Germany is opposed to euro bonds.  “Who will guarantee them if it’s not France and Germany?”
he said. “Should we raise our debt to pay the debts of others?
It’s irresponsible.”  Sarkozy said the  European Central Bank  has done “pretty
well” in fighting the region’s sovereign debt crisis given the
constraints of its mandate.  “I think the ECB has done pretty well,” Sarkozy said.
“This is a global crisis. You think it was easy? I’m not sure
you’d have done much better than us.  Europe  has got out of the
crisis.”  Immigration  One of the most heated clashes came over immigration, with
Hollande saying that foreigners who have been in France for five
years should be allowed to vote in local elections and Sarkozy
saying it would open the way for Muslims to impose laws in the
officially secular country.  When Hollande asked Sarkozy why he equated all foreigners
with Muslims, Sarkozy shot back that it was “denying reality”
to suggest that most migrants didn’t come from North Africa.
“Muslims are treated better in France than Christians are in
Orient,” Sarkozy said.  To Sarkozy’s accusations of deceit, Hollande said “that’s
a leitmotif that’s really starting to annoy me,” adding later:
“You are not able to have one exchange without being
disagreeable. And you claim you are a uniter.”  Near the end, the incumbent sought to associate Hollande
with former International Monetary Fund chief Dominique Strauss- Kahn, a one-time potential Socialist presidential candidate.  DSK  “I won’t accept lessons from a political party that was
enthusiastically uniting behind  Dominique Strauss-Kahn ,”
Sarkozy said.  Strauss-Kahn left his job at the IMF last year after facing
charges of raping a maid in a  New York  hotel room. Prosecutors
later dropped the case. The former Socialist minister also
dropped his ambitions to run for the French presidency following
the scandal.  “I was sure you were going to bring that up,” Hollande
retorted. “You put him at the head of the IMF.”  Sarkozy’s biographer Catherine Nay deemed the president’s
performance less than his best.  “ Nicolas Sarkozy  seemed a little bit off track,” she said
on Europe 1 radio after the debate. “I’m a bit disappointed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  