-- Scotiabank Bets on a New Kind of Hockey Card
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-05-02T14:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/scotiabank-bets-on-a-new-kind-of-hockey-card.html
Asked whether he’s a fan of hockey,
Canada’s national pastime,  Bank of Nova Scotia  Chief Executive
Officer  Richard Waugh  reached into his wallet and produced a
pair of cards.  They don’t display Sidney Crosby’s goals or Alexander
Ovechkin’s assists. One is a Visa credit card featuring the logo
of the National Hockey League’s Toronto Maple Leafs; the other
is a debit card declaring him a fan of his hometown Winnipeg
Jets.  Scotiabank expects about one million customers to follow
Waugh’s lead, part of a marketing strategy designed to get
younger customers in the door of Canada’s third-largest bank
buying mortgages, credit cards and other products. The NHL is
looking to replicate the strategy with a bank in the U.S.  “This is a game changer for us,” Waugh, 64, said in an
interview last month in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. “We’re trying
to focus on what’s important in people’s lives, and then making
sure we can motivate them to take products and services from
us.”  One million customers is the benchmark Scotiabank reached
with its  Scene  campaign -- a movie theater-themed loyalty card
used by about 3.5 million Canadians. Scotiabank has 19 million
customers in about 50 countries, according to its website.  “Scene was mostly on theater, but hockey is even more part
of Canada and also a wider demographic,” said Waugh. In Canada,
“a large segment of the population watches or goes to see
hockey.”  Hockey Bank  The hockey card campaign is “on pace to perform as well as
the SCENE credit card program,” said Duncan Hannay, a senior
vice president of Canadian marketing at the bank. Scotiabank
said it has also been testing  debit cards  “on a limited basis
in select markets.”  Waugh named Scotiabank ‘Canada’s Hockey Bank’ after it
renewed in January an exclusive five-year sponsorship deal to be
the official bank of the NHL. In addition, Scotiabank  sponsors 
NHL teams in Toronto, Ottawa, Calgary and Winnipeg, with naming
rights to the hockey arenas in Ottawa and Calgary. It’s also the
bank of the NHL Players Association, NHL Alumni and the Canadian
Women’s Hockey League.  John Aiken , an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in Toronto,
questioned whether the hockey-themed marketing push can
translate into real sales.  “One million seems like a fairly large number,” Aiken
said. “It then becomes a question of ‘what’s the ability to be
able to mine these customers and add products?’”  Hockey, Donuts  Mark Vandenbosch, a Kraft Professor in Marketing at the
Ivey School of Business in  London , Ontario, said hockey is
something a wide cross-section of the Canadian public can relate
to. “Scotiabank being involved in something that is truly
Canadian is a good idea,” he said.  Vandenbosch likened the bank’s association with hockey to a
long-standing association that coffee and donut chain  Tim
Hortons Inc. (THI)  has with the sport in Canada.  Scotiabank isn’t the only Canadian bank involved in sports
sponsorship.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s largest bank,
has alliances with the  Olympic Games  and the Professional
Golfers’ Association, while No. 2  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  has its
logo on the  TD Garden  in  Boston , home of the NHL’s Boston Bruins
and  National Basketball Association ’s  Boston Celtics .  While hockey may have more appeal to males, women are also
being targeted by the NHL, said Vijay Setlur, a lecturer on
sport marketing at the  Schulich School of Business in Toronto .  “Many of the pro leagues throughout  North America  are
really reaching hard for that female consumer,”  Setlur  said in
an interview. “There are more women at the games and watching
the games than before. There’s no reason why they wouldn’t be
interested in that credit card.”  Hockey Night in Canada  Scotiabank declined to say how much it spends promoting the
sport, which also includes sponsorships of minor hockey teams
and Canadian Broadcasting Corp.’s television program ‘Hockey
Night in  Canada ’. The bank spent C$282 million on advertising
and business development costs last year, according to
regulatory  filings .  “My single-biggest expense item in marketing is on the
hockey strategy,” said Anatol von Hahn, Scotiabank’s head of
Canadian banking. “We’re making a big bet here.”  Scotiabank said it can glean information from clients who
use its credit cards, such as repayment habits and buying
patterns.  “I can start putting you into a segment,” von Hahn said.
“I can now come to you and start offering a mortgage, or a
mutual fund savings program. Or if you’re buying small-sized
jerseys for kids, I now know you have kids - why don’t I offer
you an RESP?”  Lifetime Value  Scotiabank’s hockey strategy began in 2007, part of a push
to bring younger clients to its domestic bank while cross-
selling multiple products. The ScotiaHockey NHL Visa card,
started in March, offers reward points redeemable for NHL
merchandise and tickets, as well as discounts at hockey-related
retailers.  Domestic  consumer banking  is Scotiabank’s biggest single
business  segment , with 2011 profit up 5.2 percent to C$1.86
billion. Scotiabank shares have climbed 5.8 percent this year,
close to the gain on the 10-member  S&P/TSX Banks Index. (STBANKX)   “When you look at where we were seven years ago to where
we are in the segment of 18-35, we have gone from net negative -
- losing customers in that segment -- to the strongest growth of
all the Canadian banks in that segment,” said von Hahn.  Waugh said NHL commissioner Gary Bettman is among those
taking note of the bank’s strategy. Now that  Comcast Corp.’s (CMCSA)  NBC
has secured broadcasting rights for NHL games south of the
Canadian border, he said the league may seek similar
arrangements with U.S. lenders.  NBC  “If you believe NBC is going to put enough resources
behind it and push the NHL and try to give it more focus in the
U.S. markets, then let’s look at a case of what’s happened in
another market; let’s look at the Canadian market,” said von
Hahn.  The NHL, which uses  Discover Financial Services (DFS) ’s Discover
card as its official U.S. credit-card distributor, is “always
looking for opportunities,” to partner with banks and insurers
south of the border, said Keith Wachtel, the league’s senior
vice-president of integrated sales. “It’s not something that
necessarily has been one of the priority categories for us next
season.”  With no Canadian team left in the  NHL playoffs  after last
week’s defeat of the  Ottawa Senators  by the  New York Rangers ,
the opportune time for Waugh to hook customers with hockey cards
might be winding down. There’s always next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  