-- Morgan Keegan Loses Ruling in Auction-Rate Appeals Case
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-05-03T02:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/sec-s-lawsuit-against-morgan-keegan-revived-by-appeals-court.html
A U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission lawsuit alleging Morgan Keegan & Co. brokers misled
investors about the liquidity risk of auction-rate securities
was reinstated by a federal appeals court.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Atlanta said today that a
trial judge had incorrectly agreed with Morgan Keegan that
brokers’ verbal comments to four customers weren’t “material”
misrepresentations or omissions that would make the company
liable under U.S. securities law.  “Morgan Keegan argues that the materiality of a
misrepresentation in an SEC enforcement action is evaluated in
the context of only disclosures to the public as a whole and
without any consideration of a broker’s communications to a
particular investor,” the appellate panel said.  “This argument fails because the Supreme Court’s
materiality standard analyzes the total mix of information
available to a hypothetical reasonable investor, not just to the
public at large,” the panel said in the ruling.  The SEC sued  Memphis , Tennessee-based Morgan Keegan in
2009, accusing it of  securities fraud . The SEC said Morgan
Keegan brokers, from late 2007 through the collapse of the
market of auction-rate securities in February 2008, told
customers the securities “were as good as cash” because they
wanted to increase sales.  Market Collapse  The market for the securities collapsed when dealers
stopped participating in auctions at which  interest rates  were
periodically reset. The investments typically were municipal and
student-loan-backed bonds and preferred shares.  U.S. District Judge William Duffey in Atlanta last year
threw out the SEC claim that the firm didn’t provide heightened
disclosure that auction-rate securities were regularly failing.
Morgan Keegan’s “failure to predict the market does not
constitute securities fraud,” the judge said.  Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF)  last month completed a
$1.2 billion acquisition of Morgan Keegan from  Regions Financial
Corp. (RF)  Representatives of St. Petersburg, Florida-based Raymond
James didn’t immediately return a call after regular business
hours seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is SEC v. Morgan Keegan & Co. Inc., 11-13992, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit (Atlanta).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  