-- Secrecy Paramount on Obama’s 36-Hour Secret Afghan Trip
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/secrecy-paramount-on-obama-s-36-hour-secret-afghan-trip.html
The cryptic call summoning reporters
to the White House came at 12:19 p.m. Sunday from a private
number and lasted only 25 seconds. By the following night, Air
Force One was in the air.  In the next 36 hours, the 13-member pool of reporters who
travel wherever the president goes would spend almost 28 hours
in the air, fly in dual-rotor Chinook helicopters across the
Hindu Kush mountain range, visit the presidential palace in
Kabul, cover an address to the nation. All of it done under a
cover of darkness.  President  Barack Obama ’s trip to Afghanistan was wrapped in
secrecy. There was no arrival ceremony and no gaggle of
dignitaries that typically mark a visit by the leader of the
U.S. The cloak-and-dagger-like procedures required to keep the
trip a surprise offer a glimpse into how the president can keep
moving in a dangerous world.  Afghan insurgents put an exclamation point on the security
imperative. Within hours of Obama’s departure from Bagram
Airfield, they mounted coordinated attacks that killed six
civilians in Kabul. The Taliban, claiming responsibility, said
it was in response to the president’s trip.  The protocol was established under former President   George W. Bush  for his trips to the war zones in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan .
It’s continued under Obama, who has now been to Afghanistan
three times and to Iraq once.  “Whenever the president travels to a war zone, it’s
necessary to take additional security precautions, and we are
always guided by security professionals in determining those
arrangements,” said  Ben Rhodes , deputy national security
adviser, who accompanied Obama on the trip.  Call Comes  For this flight it began for reporters on April 29, when a
White House aide called members of what is known as the
traveling pool to a 5 p.m. meeting in the office of press
secretary  Jay Carney . The main question for the meeting was the
destination. The answer from Carney and White House
Communications Director  Dan Pfeiffer  came quickly: Afghanistan.  The president would be flying overnight to Bagram Airfield,
visiting on the anniversary of the killing of al- Qaeda leader
Osama bin Laden. He would meet with Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  at the presidential palace to sign a strategic
partnership agreement that had been under negotiation for more
20 months. Obama would then return to Bagram, meet with troops
and deliver an address to the nation Tuesday evening before
returning home.  Safety Concerns  The safety of the president and all those traveling with
him would be jeopardized if word leaked. The reporters were
instructed to tell one editor, and to do so either in person or
by land-line telephone. No  mobile phone calls, no e-mails.  The news pool was told to report at 10 p.m. April 30 at
Joint Base Andrews just outside of Washington and given
directions to a different entrance than the one usually used for
presidential trips. Arrival was to be only by personal vehicle.  The entrance gate was unlit and as a group we drove to a
dark parking lot on the base. Our bags were checked by security
officers and we handed over all our communications devices. We
boarded a blue school bus along with several members of the
White House staff, including top national security council aides
Denis McDonough and Rhodes, deputy chief of staff Alyssa Mastromonaco and senior White House adviser  David Plouffe .  Shades Drawn  The shades were drawn on  Air Force  One when the bus arrived
and would remain that way until after leaving Afghanistan.
Reporters never saw Obama board. Shortly after midnight, the
plane moved on the tarmac and at 12:09 a.m. Air Force One was
wheels up.  About an hour into the 13 1/2-hour flight, computers,
phones and tablets were returned. With a little more than two
hours to go before landing, administration officials gave a
briefing about the trip, the president’s address and the
agreement he’d be signing.  The reporters also got a security briefing: which
helicopters to board from Bagram to Kabul and the type of body
armor we had the option of wearing.  As the plane began its descent into Bagram, all the
interior and exterior lights on the plane were turned off.
Minutes later, the landing alert sounded and soon Air Force One
touched down at 10:20 p.m. in Afghanistan, 1:50 p.m.  Washington 
time.  The news of our trip was still embargoed. Reporters weren’t
allowed to communicate until the arrival in Kabul. Local Afghan
reporters had already been gathered at the presidential palace.
To prevent the story from leaking, they were told that they
would be covering a meeting between Karzai and a delegation of
U.S. members of Congress.  On the Ground  The president walked off the plane and onto the tarmac in
Afghanistan on a clear, bright-mooned, starry night. Wearing a
long black trench coat, he was greeted by U.S. Ambassador  Ryan Crocker  and Lieutenant General Curtis Scaparrotti.  The reporting pool was instructed to run to helicopter No.
4. Each seat in the  Boeing Co. (BA)  CH-47 Chinook was equipped with a
25-pound camouflaged armored vest and a plastic bag that
included earplugs, a tactical light and a yellow envelope
labeled “Motion sickness bag: For use during moments of stomach
upset.”  Over the Mountains  Moments later, the unlit Chinook was in the air for a 30-
minute lift to Kabul. In the moonlight, the contours of the
Hindu Kush mountain range were visible. The Marines on board
watched the ground below. About 20 minutes into the flight
lights were flickering on the ground below and some high-rise
buildings were visible. Oddly, there were several brightly-lit
structures with flashing colors.  Once on the ground, Marines standing on the unlit field
directed us into armored vans for the 1.1-mile, 22-vehicle
convoy to the palace. During the drive, we began establishing
connections with our news organizations so that when Carney gave
the word, we could report that the president was in Afghanistan.  By the time the reporters all made contact with Washington,
we were standing in the courtyard of the presidential palace.
Correspondents from Bloomberg, the Associated Press and Reuters
gathered with Carney, who counted to three and said, “Go.”  The news was out and we were officially in Afghanistan.  Maintaining Secrecy  Maintaining secrecy is one of the biggest challenges in
planning such trips. Several of us who traveled this week were
also on a December 2010 unannounced visit to Afghanistan, where
news of the president’s visit leaked before we even landed. The
White House as well as the news organizations went to great
lengths to make sure that didn’t happen again.  Still, an Afghan-based news channel, TOLOnews had already
reported Obama’s arrival -- several hours before Air Force One
landed. The story spread on Twitter and the World Wide Web.
Because the president was still in the air, the White House
released a carefully worded denial and the U.S. embassy in
Afghanistan used Twitter to say “Reports that President Obama
is in Kabul are false.”  Once Obama and Karzai signed the Strategic Partnership
Agreement, the entourage was rushed out of the palace back into
the convoys to reload into the helicopters for the return trip
to Bagram.  While news of the president’s visit was no longer secret,
security was no less an issue. We again flew in darkness across
a lit-up Kabul and back through the mountains.  In the Hangar  The rest of the trip was spent in a hangar on the base.
Obama delivered remarks to the troops, visited with wounded
servicemen and women and handed out 10 Purple Hearts.  Finally, along with more than a dozen members of the
military, we watched on a live television feed as the president,
who was in an adjacent hangar, addressed the U.S. public. He
spoke at roughly the same time of day that, one year earlier,
Navy SEALs were conducting the raid that killed bin Laden at his
compound in Abbottabad,  Pakistan .  As the president was ending his remarks, we were being
rushed to gather our belongings. The sun would soon be rising.
The outlines of the mountain ranges were becoming clearer. Staff
and press were hurried onto the airplane. As during our
departure from Andrews less than 24 hours earlier, the shades
were all drawn and we never saw the president board.  At 4:30 a.m. local time, 8 p.m. in Washington, we felt the
plane’s wheels lift off Afghan soil. Obama had spent six hours
and 10 minutes on the ground.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  