-- Senate Definition of Reform? Give Rich Farmers More Aid
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-02T23:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/senate-definition-of-reform-give-rich-farmers-more-aid-view.html
Maybe there is a different definition
of the word “reform” in  Washington  than in the rest of the
country. How else can one account for the latest version of the
 farm bill , approved last week by the  Senate Agriculture
Committee ?  The bill, which Congress renews every five years, was
supposed to cut giveaways to agribusiness and other wasteful
spending. Indeed, Senate negotiators hailed the $23 billion in
cost reductions over the next 10 years as one of the biggest
shakeups in agriculture policy in generations. The committee
achieved the savings by cutting some farm subsidies and trimming
spending on environmental conservation and the food stamp
program, which also falls under the farm bill.  The truth is the new bill might add to the quarter-trillion
dollars in  farm subsidies  for which taxpayers are already on the
hook. The measure will eventually go to the full Senate, where
the latest gravy-train provisions should be derailed.  The one piece of good news is that the bill eliminates
fixed payments, the $5 billion doled out annually to farmers as
well as huge agribusinesses and  urban residents  who own land
that might not have been worked in more than a generation. So
much scorn has been heaped on these wealth transfers that the
Agriculture Committee and the farm lobby knew that fighting to
keep them was hopeless.  New Subsidy  In place of fixed payments the committee added a new
subsidy in the form of expanded crop insurance. Why this was
needed is hard to fathom, because existing crop-insurance
programs will cost taxpayers as much as $90 billion in the
coming decade, according to the  Congressional Research Service .  What makes this new benefit so troubling is that it might
even be more expensive than the fixed payments. It certainly
can’t be justified based on the health of the farm economy. Farm
 net income  last year reached a record $98 billion, mostly
because prices for commodity crops such as corn and soybeans
were near record highs.  The new insurance program doesn’t just protect farmers
against floods, drought and other vagaries of nature -- called
deep losses. It guarantees farm incomes by compensating for so-
called shallow losses as well. All it takes to trigger a
shallow-loss claim is for a farm’s revenue to fall below 89
percent of a baseline.  Analysts say that shallow-loss insurance will cost
taxpayers $33 billion during the next decade. That figure might
balloon if commodity prices keep falling from their record
levels of recent years.  Existing crop-insurance programs already give farmers too
many misguided incentives. The federal government pays for 62
percent of the premiums of the private insurers who sell crop
policies. This subsidy leads farmers to buy excess coverage and
overplant.  Inefficiencies also drive up costs. For each $1 in payments
to settle loss claims, the government pays another dollar to
cover the overhead and administrative expenses of private
insurers that underwrite the policies. These costs are about
triple the rate of nonfarm property and casualty insurers,
according to Bloomberg Industries analysis. The insurers, in
turn, earn fat profits; a 30 percent average return compared
with 12 percent in the private sector, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture .  The Senate committee could have made a number of changes to
lower spending while maintaining a safety net for farmers.  Trimming crop-insurance premium subsidies to 52 percent
might save taxpayers as much as $10 billion over 10 years.
Another $10 billion could be saved by capping insurance
subsidies for an individual farmer at $40,000, according to the
Government Accountability Office.  Give It Away  A more sweeping proposal by the Environmental Working Group
calls for the government to essentially  give away insurance . The
U.S. Department of Agriculture would administer the program,
covering 70 percent of a farmer’s crop and eliminating the
inefficiencies of multiple private insurers. That might save as
much as $18.5 billion during the next 10 years.  Reform can begin with smaller steps.  Paul Ryan , the
Republican representative whose budget proposals envision deep
cuts in social programs, was on the right track five years ago
when he called for $55 billion in cuts for agriculture by
eliminating all subsidies to farmers with adjusted gross income
of more than $250,000. Ryan has since backtracked, and his
 latest budget resolution  seeks only $30 billion in savings. He
will be under more pressure in the House, where Southern
Republicans  complain  that the Senate bill, as generous as it is,
isn’t as favorable to growers of cotton, rice and peanuts as it
is to Midwestern corn, soy and wheat operations.  In an ideal world, farm subsidies would prevent
catastrophic events from driving a farmer off the land. They
have evolved into something more pernicious: welfare for the
biggest farm businesses planting a handful of commodity crops
and guarantees of income security offered to almost no one else
in the country. That’s a big target for budget cutters to take
aim at.  Are you up to it, Mr. Ryan?  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on what’s missing from the
 U.S.-Afghanistan pact ;  Ezra Klein  on how  the U.S. isn’t like
Greece ;  Amity Shlaes  on why  we should all back the gold
standard ;  Caroline Baum  on the lack of  alternatives to austerity ;
Ray Ball on  pitfalls of mark-to-market accounting ; Josh Barro on
 new arguments for a U.S. value-added tax .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 