-- Senna’s $1.2 Million Racer, Kate Moss Portrait for Sale
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-05-03T11:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/senna-s-1-2-million-racer-kate-moss-portrait-for-sale.html
A Formula One car driven by  Ayrton Senna  may fetch as much as 750,000 pounds ($1.2 million) next
month as fans of the late racer vie with classic-car collectors.  The 1984 Toleman TG184-2 is scheduled to be the most
valuable lot in a May 16 auction at Silverstone, the home of the
British Grand Prix. The young Senna stormed to second place in
the car behind  Alain Prost  in the rainy 1984 Monaco Grand Prix,
having started at 17th on the grid. The movie of his life won
the Sundance Film Festival audience  award  for documentary and
the best documentary Bafta film award.  “Senna items got a real uplift from the film,” said Paul
Campbell, auction manager at Silverstone Auctions. “They’re a
reminder of the glory days of motor racing.”  While single-seat racers can have limited appeal, choosy
classic-car buyers are drawn to vehicles with big-name
provenances that are in original condition, dealers said.  The Brazilian driver went on to win three Formula One World
Championships before a fatal crash in the San Marino Grand Prix
in May 1994. His blue-and-white car is being sold by a group of
four U.K.-based owners. They acquired it in 1994 from the
Formula One driver Stefan Johansson, who also raced for the
short-lived British Toleman Grand Prix team in the 1984 season.
It is in original condition, though not in working order.  Silverstone ’s inaugural event was held last summer. This
latest sale is valued at between 2 million pounds and 2.5
million pounds. Other stand-out lots include an ex-Senna 1982
Ralt RT3 Formula Three car,  priced  at 110,000 pounds to 125,000
pounds, and a restored 1973 Porsche 911 Carrera RS 2.7 Touring,
marked at 190,000 pounds to 210,000 pounds.  Charity Auctions  Kate Moss  and Tracey Emin are among the celebrities
donating artworks to charity auctions in London this month.  Emin,  Antony Gormley ,  Anthony Caro  and seven other artists
have given a total of 15 pieces for a sale to benefit  Crisis , a
U.K. charity for single homeless people.  The auction at Christie’s International today is estimated
to raise more than 450,000 pounds. Lead sponsor  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK)  paid for the costs of the artists exploring the theme of
homelessness, said Crisis.  Emin contributed two neon works and two drawings, ranging
in estimate from 20,000 pounds to 30,000 pounds.  Gormley’s Sleeper  The unique 2011 Gormley cast-iron sculpture, “Contract,”
evoking the body of a rough sleeper, is the most highly valued
work, estimated at 150,000 pounds to 200,000 pounds.  “The most challenging social sculpture of our times is
made by the quiet performances of homeless people within the
shelter provided by the doorways of the shops of our inner
cities,” Gormley said in the auction catalog.  Moss will be seen in the more glamorous guise of a 21st-
century mermaid on May 17 to benefit the U.K. children’s
charity, the  NSPCC .  The Norwegian fashion photographer  Solve Sundsbo’s 
subsequent printed image of the British model in 2006, standing
half-naked and cross-legged in a pair of gold hipster pants, is
among 11 portraits being offered in a Bonhams photographs
auction to benefit the organization.  From an edition of 10, it is valued at 3,000 pounds to
4,000 pounds.  The group also includes a portrait of Florence Welch, the
lead singer of Florence + the Machine, and a portrait of  Damien Hirst  by David Bailey.  Fair Casualty  Art London  has become a casualty of 2012’s increasingly
crowded fair calendar.  The event in a temporary structure at the  Royal Hospital  in
Chelsea, scheduled for October 4-8, has been canceled after the
venue declined to renew the fair’s tenancy agreement after 2012.  “Once this became known, we were dead men walking,” Ralph
Ward-Jackson, founder and chairman of Art London, said in an
interview. “A fair without a venue is nothing. We’ve been
looking for an alternative and just haven’t been able to find
one.”  The Christopher Wren-designed Royal Hospital has a limited
number of slots for such commercial events. The lavish
 Masterpiece  art and antiques fair, which debuted at the venue in
June, has gained precedence, Ward-Jackson said.  This year’s event would have taken place a week before the
 Frieze Art Fair , the debut edition of the  Frieze Masters  in
Regent’s Park and the newly combined Pavilion of Art & Design
 London  and  LAPADA  Art & Antiques Fair in Berkeley Square.  British Art  Art London dates back to 2003 and this year would have
featured more than 70 galleries, mostly U.K.-based ones
specializing in 20th- and 21st-century British art priced
between 5,000 pounds and 20,000 pounds. Previous editions drew
more than 16,000 visitors.  “All those are top-end fairs,” Robert Travers, director
of the London-based  Piano Nobile  gallery, which has exhibited at
both Masterpiece and  Art London , said in an interview. “The
lower end of the market is difficult at the moment.”  Meanwhile, collectors and dealers specializing in more
cutting-edge contemporary art continue to look for works by new
talents.  Last November,  The Other Art Fair  at The Bargehouse on
London’s south bank allowed emerging artists to show their work
directly to the public and to scouting dealers.  A second, expanded edition will be held in the warehouse-
like space of  Ambika P3  at the University of Westminster from
May 10 to May 13. Participants have been selected by the light
artist Chris Levine, writer and curator Francesca Gavin and the
dealer and curator Kenny Schachter.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include: Farah Nayeri on London
weekend,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  technology .  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 