-- Bulls Miss Rose as 76ers Tie NBA Series; Celtics, Lakers Win
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-02T05:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/shorthanded-celtics-defeat-hawks-even-series-at-one-game-each.html
The  Philadelphia 76ers  won 109-92
against the  Chicago Bulls  and the  Boston Celtics  rallied to
defeat the Atlanta Hawks 87-80 to even their series in the
National Basketball Association playoffs.  In yesterday’s third game,  Kobe Bryant  scored 38 points as
the  Los Angeles Lakers  defeated the Denver Nuggets 104-100 to
take a two-games-to-none lead in their series. Andrew Bynum had
27 points for the Lakers at Staples Center in Los Angeles.  The top-seeded Bulls were playing without  Derrick Rose , the
reigning NBA Most Valuable Player who was lost for the rest of
the playoffs with a knee injury in the first game of the series.  The 76ers outscored the top-seeded Bulls 36-14 in the third
quarter at United Center in  Chicago  last night to tie their
best-of-seven first-round series at one game apiece.  “The third quarter was the game,” said Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau. “They got into the open floor and crushed us off
isolation. We have to come back with a lot more fight.”  The odds on the Bulls winning their first NBA title since
the Michael Jordan era widened to 12-1 from 4-1 before the
postseason began after Rose suffered an anterior cruciate
ligament tear in his left knee in Game 1.  Jrue Holiday had 26 points on 11-for-15 shooting and Lou Williams added 20 points for the eighth-seeded 76ers, who hit 59
percent of their shots, compared with 45 percent for Chicago.  “A wonderful win,” said 76ers coach  Doug Collins .  Joakim Noah led the Bulls with 21 points. The 76ers host
Chicago on May 4 for Game 3.  “We’re capable of playing a lot better,” Thibodeau told
reporters. “It starts with me. I have to get us ready to play
better. We have a couple of days to get it right.”  Pierce Leads Celtics  At Philips Arena in Atlanta, Paul Pierce had 36 points and
14 rebounds for the Celtics, who were missing point guard Rajon Rondo because of a suspension and shooting guard Ray Allen
because of injury.  The Celtics, who trailed by five points after three
quarters, outscored Atlanta 26-14 in the fourth period to tie
their series at 1-1.  “I told our guys, it was just a team win,”  Boston  coach
Doc Rivers told reporters. “You can pick out so many different
little things that every single guy that played on the floor did
for us and that’s how you grind out wins.”  Joe Johnson had 22 points for the Hawks, who visit the
Celtics on May 4 for Game 3.  “We will not hang our heads at this point,” Atlanta coach
Larry Drew said. “There’s just too much basketball to be
played. It gives us an opportunity to go up (to Boston) and show
what we’re all about and show what we’ve been about all
season.”  In tonight’s games, the  Utah Jazz  visit the San Antonio
Spurs trying to tie their series at 1-1; the Orlando Magic host
the Indiana Pacers in their effort to take a 2-1 series lead,
and the  Los Angeles  Clippers seek a 2-0 advantage against the
host Memphis Grizzlies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  