-- SK Telecom First-Quarter Profit Falls on Call-Rate Cut
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-05-02T07:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/sk-telecom-first-quarter-profit-falls-on-call-rate-cut.html
SK Telecom Co. (017670) ,  South Korea ’s largest
mobile-phone operator, reported first-quarter profit that missed
analyst estimates amid rising costs and a cut in call prices
that crimped revenue.  Net income  fell 40 percent to 323.3 billion won ($287
million) from 537 billion won a year earlier, the Seoul-based
company said in a  statement  today. That lagged behind the 358.4
billion-won average of 13  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  SK Telecom’s mobile-call revenue fell 2 percent as it cut
phone rates amid a government initiative to control inflation.
Operational spending rose 7 percent as the company upgraded
networks to accommodate surging data traffic and revive earnings
with faster fourth-generation services that use so-called long-
term evolution, or LTE, technology.  “The numbers are a bit short of expectations,” Yang Jong In, a Seoul-based analyst at Korea Investment & Securities Co.,
said by phone. “The same trend will likely continue in the
second quarter, with marketing costs and competition
increasing.”  SK shares fell 0.7 percent to 134,000 won at the close of
trading in  Seoul , while South Korea’s benchmark Kospi index
gained 0.9 percent.  LTE Subscribers  Operating profit fell 26 percent to 452 billion won on
sales of 3.99 trillion won.  SK began in September to lower monthly basic rates for its
mobile-phone subscribers by 1,000 won and offer 50 free  text
messages  each month. The carrier was the first to agree with the
government to lower phone bills as the country tries to curb
inflation.  The company’s parent-based average revenue per user fell 3
percent in the first quarter while the number of subscribers
increased 2 percent, SK said.  SK’s consolidated operational spending increased 7 percent
from a year earlier, with depreciation costs rising 2.6 percent
on capital expenditure to expand LTE coverage, the company said.
Spending on promotions and advertisements rose 27 percent.  SK began commercial LTE service in July, starting in Seoul.
The company signed up 2.4 million LTE users as of the end of
April, SK said today. The company expects the number to exceed
its target of 6 million by the end of this year, SK said.  “SK Telecom expects its LTE market leadership and robust
subscriber growth to result in improving its earnings in the
mid- to long term,” the carrier said.  Competition among local carriers is set to intensify from
the second quarter as they promote their LTE services, Kim Jang Won, a Seoul-based analyst at IBK Securities Co., said in an
April 12 report.  SK bought 21 percent of  SK Hynix Inc. (000660)  for 3.4 trillion won.
Hynix is reviewing plans to buy assets of Elpida Memory Inc.,
the bankrupt Japanese semiconductor manufacturer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  