-- Skadden Hires Paul Hastings’s Betts for Hong Kong Deals
-- B y   D o u g l a s   W o n g
-- 2012-05-02T04:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/skadden-hires-paul-hastings-s-betts-for-hong-kong-deals.html
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP, ranked third among legal advisers on global equity sales
last year, hired Christopher Betts as a partner for its  capital
markets  and mergers team in  Hong Kong .  Betts, who had worked at Paul Hastings LLP and Freshfields
Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, is the fourth partner added in  Asia  in
the past seven months as part of New York-based Skadden’s
strategy to build its presence in the region for the next
decade, according to Asia head Michael Gisser.  “The Hong Kong market is and will remain the preferred
listing destination for quality Chinese companies,” Gisser said
when asked about the increased scrutiny by regulators in the
Chinese city on arrangers of initial public offerings. Hong
Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission said last month it may
propose rules making IPO sponsors criminally liable for the
accuracy of information in prospectuses.  At least six disputes have been publicized this year
between auditors and Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong. More
than a quarter of Chinese firms that went public on the city’s
mainboard in 2010, a record year for volume, have lowered
forecasts since they started trading, compared with fewer than
10 percent of non-Chinese companies that had IPOs there that
year.  “ China  and Hong Kong arguably remain the strongest
economies in the world, and that’s going to throw off economic
activity,” Gisser said. If shareholders in Chinese companies
don’t exit through IPOs, they will do so through M&A
transactions, he said.  Citic, Sunshine Oilsands  At least 14 U.S. law firms have expanded in Hong Kong since
2010 and hired lawyers who can advise on domestic law. Skadden
started the trend in 2005 by luring Dominic Tsun and Nick Norris
from London-based firms. They were both hired by Chicago-based
Kirkland & Ellis LLP last year.  Skadden advised on Hong Kong IPOs including manganese-
mining company  Citic Dameng Holdings Ltd. (1091) , casino operators
 Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883)  and Wynn Macau Ltd., and  Sunshine
Oilsands Ltd. (2012) , the Canadian company with major Chinese
investors.  Betts, who also previously co-led the Asia-Pacific legal
team at McKinsey & Co., said while tougher IPO rules in
Hong Kong may deter smaller value listings, the pipeline of
work remains strong including the listing in Hong Kong of
overseas acquisitions by Chinese state-owned enterprises.  “Over the last decade many of the largest SOEs have set up
platforms in Hong Kong,” Betts said. “Over the next decade
they’ll be doing more and more deals with those platforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Wong in Hong Kong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  