-- Skill Mismatch to Keep Unemployment High, Silvia Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-05-02T16:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/skill-mismatch-to-keep-unemployment-high-silvia-says.html
Many U.S. job seekers lack the skills
needed in a changing economy to bring the 8.2 percent
unemployment  rate  down to the 6.1 percent average over the past
decade, according to John Silvia at Wells Fargo & Co.  Americans who lost low-skilled jobs in manufacturing and
construction “don’t have the skills to compete in a society
that emphasizes science, technology, math, computer literacy,”
Silvia, chief economist at  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Wells
Fargo Securities, said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “As
a result of that, you’ve got long-term unemployment.”  While the jobless rate has fallen from a 26-year high of 10
percent reached in October 2009, it’s still well above the
 Federal Reserve ’s 5 percent to 6 percent estimate for full
employment.  U.S. companies added the fewest number of workers in April
in seven months, figures from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Employer Services showed today. Employment increased by 119,000
jobs following a revised gain of 201,000 the prior month. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called
for a 170,000 advance.  “Yes, the American economy is creating jobs,” Silvia
said. “It’s creating jobs in a number of different areas -- but
not at the pace we’re used to in the past, and generally it’s
going to be that construction area that’s going to continue to
be weak.”  Payrolls Report  Wells Fargo forecasts a May 4 Labor Department report will
show the  U.S. economy  added from 160,000 to 180,000 jobs in
April, though the estimate may be revised depending on the
results of an Institute for Supply Management report on service
businesses to be released tomorrow, Silvia said.  Nonfarm payrolls, including government jobs, added 160,000
jobs after a 120,000 increase in March, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey before the report.  “The biggest issue for me is distinguishing the business
cycle versus the structural change,” he said. “There are
structural changes going on in the economy that underlie the
cyclical improvement.”  The economy expanded at a 2.2 percent annual rate in the
first quarter after a 3 percent pace in the final three months
of 2011, Commerce Department figures showed last week. U.S.
gross domestic product will probably grow at about 2.2 percent
to 2.3 percent this year, Silvia said.  “We have to deal with what we’ve got,” he said. “You
have to restructure state and local government, you have to
restructure a lot of businesses.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  