-- Skinny, Pricey PCs Timed for Windows 8: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-05-02T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/skinny-pricey-pcs-timed-for-windows-8-rich-jaroslovsky.html
No question about it: PCs are getting
prettier.  The beige boxes and generic laptops of a few years ago are
giving way to new generations of sleek machines running
 Microsoft (MSFT) ’s Windows 7 -- and ready for Windows 8 later this
year.  For evidence, take a look at Sony’s Vaio Z, a 13-inch
notebook potent enough to replace a desktop, and  Samsung (005930) ’s
latest Series 9, the thinnest 15-incher you can buy. Yes,
they’re expensive, but they’re also beautiful.  A lot of the credit goes to Apple. The entire laptop
category has been in a state of upheaval since the iPad’s launch
two years ago. Meanwhile, the MacBook Air raised the bar on
design and spawned a new class of Windows PC competitors, called
Ultrabooks, featuring Intel microprocessors, speedy solid-state
storage and much faster boot-up and shut-down times than hard-
drive-based computers.  Windows 8 may accelerate the trend. It’s being designed to
run on touch-based tablets as well as PCs. Microsoft and its
partners say they hope to spawn new kinds of hybrid devices that
combine the best of both. Maybe so. Still, it’s comforting to
know that the new operating system is promised to work on any
hardware running Windows 7.  Breathtaking  Apple (AAPL) ’s success has also shown that buyers are willing to
pay premium prices for features and style. And “premium”
doesn’t even begin to describe the Vaio Z and Series 9. A better
word would be “breathtaking.”  The  Vaio Z  is one of the most adaptable ultraportables out
there, allowing you to add layers of functionality depending on
your needs of the moment. Closed, the Vaio Z is just .66 inches
high, measures 13 inches by 8.27 inches and weighs a mere 2.57
pounds. The tapered case further shrinks its footprint, making
it convenient to use in tight spaces, such as an airplane tray.  Compared to other laptops, less of the Vaio’s weight is in
the screen, giving it a springy feel when closed that makes it
feel less solid than it probably really is. ( Sony (6758)  says the extra
give is deliberate, to help cushion the computer from the rigors
of travel.) When the screen is opened, its hinges prop up the
unit’s rear, ever-so-slightly angling the backlit keyboard.
That’s a good thing, because the low-lying keys had too little
travel for my liking. Tilting the keyboard helped.  Expanding Power  The real power in the Vaio Z comes from its expandability.
The unit comes with a compact external docking station for
desktop use that provides easy access to its high-definition
video and USB 2.0 and 3.0 ports, with options for a DVD burner
or Blu-ray drive. And a $150 screw-on sheet battery, augmenting
the Vaio’s minimalist four-hour life, provides enough juice to
get through more than a full day’s untethered work while still
keeping it less than an inch thick.  Here’s where the bad part of “breathtaking” comes in: The
price may leave you gasping. Sony is currently selling the base-
model Vaio Z -- with an  Intel (INTC)  Core i5 chip, four gigagbytes of
installed memory and a 128-gigabyte solid-state drive -- for
$1,700. That’s rich enough, but outfit it with an i7 processor,
a more usable six gigabytes of memory and 256 gigabytes of
storage, Blu-ray and the extended battery, and you’re suddenly
at $3,000.  Staggering  A top-line model, with more memory and SSD storage, is a
staggering $4,500. I’d like to meet the person willing to spend
that much on a PC.  By comparison, the Samsung Series 9 almost feels like a
bargain at $1,500 for a model with a 15-inch screen, Core i5,
eight gigabytes of memory and 128 gigabytes of storage. (There’s
also a 13-inch model for $100 less.)  The  Series 9  weighs about 3 1/2 pounds and measures 14
inches wide by 9.3 inches deep. But the number that jumps out is
its thickness: .58 of an inch. How thin is that? Really, really
thin. Crazy thin. Thinner than the already-impossibly-thin
MacBook Air.  It’s so thin, in fact, that it can’t accommodate Ethernet
or standard high-definition video cables, though it does have
space enough for, among other things, three USB ports and a slot
for an SD expansion card.  One of my complaints about last year’s 13-inch Series 9 was
the poor, 4-hour battery life. The new model allows for a larger
battery that should give you six to seven hours, depending on
what you’re doing. And the charcoal-gray aluminum alloy body
feels more solid than the Sony’s.  When I looked at the previous model of the Series 9 last
summer, I described it as “gorgeous and capable.” The
description applies equally to this new, bigger version.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  James S. Russell  on
architecture and the latest art  auctions  news.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 