-- SMRT Sinks to 7-Month Low on Spending: Singapore Mover
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-05-02T08:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/smrt-sinks-to-7-month-low-on-higher-spending-singapore-mover.html
(Corrects expense figure in third paragraph.)  SMRT Corp. (MRT)  fell to a seven-month low
in Singapore on concern capital expenditures will increase after
the country’s worst subway breakdown in December and as the
company reported smaller-than-expected profit.  The country’s biggest subway operator  slumped as much as 3
percent to S$1.63, the lowest intraday price since Oct. 5, and
traded at S$1.65 as of 10:18 a.m. in Singapore. The stock has
retreated 6.8 percent this year, compared with a 13 percent rise
in the benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   SMRT plans to spend about S$500 million ($405 million) in
the year ending in March, which includes a small portion of the
S$900 million that will be used over the next few years to
upgrade the country’s 25-year-old train system. Expenses from
the December disruptions totaled S$3 million in the January-
March period, the company said.  “We expect net debt to rise to over 80 percent of equity
by the 2014 fiscal year as capital expenditure exceeds operating
 cash flow ,” Robert Kong, a Singapore-based analyst at Citigroup
Inc., said in a note dated April 30. “We sense more drastic
actions are needed, perhaps raising capital to shore up
finances.”  SMRT will look into raising funds for the train upgrading
plan if needed, by tapping into its medium-term note program,
Catherine Lee, chief financial officer, said on April 30. The
company is still in discussions with the Land Transport
Authority of Singapore on how much of the S$900 million will be
shouldered by the train operator.  The company reported  net income  of S$13.9 million in the
quarter ended in March because of a goodwill impairment charge
on its bus business and higher costs. That is lower than the
S$38 million estimated by Citigroup.  The December breakdowns, which affected about 200,000
passengers, led the government to review its regulatory and
penalty framework. Saw Phaik Hwa stepped down as the company’s
chief executive officer on Jan. 6 after the disruptions on Dec.
15 and 17 affected shoppers in the Orchard Road shopping belt in
the last weekend before the Christmas holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  