-- South Africa’s PMI Declines for Second Month in April
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-05-02T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/south-africa-s-pmi-declines-for-second-month-in-april.html
South Africa ’s purchasing managers’
 index  dropped for a second month in April as an economic
slowdown in Europe damped demand for manufactured goods, Kagiso
Tiso Holdings said.  The seasonally adjusted index fell to 53.7 from 55.1 in
March, Johannesburg-based  Kagiso  said in an e-mailed statement
today. An index level above 50 indicates an expansion in factory
output. The median estimate of five economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for the index to decline to 53.6.  “There are indications that the Index could moderate even
further,” Abdul Davids, head of research at Kagiso, said in the
statement. “This is in line with the trend we are currently
seeing in Europe, South Africa’s key manufacturing export
market.”  Europe  will probably enter another recession this year as
European governments tighten spending to help ease a debt crisis
that began with  Greece  more than two years ago. Europe buys
about a third of South Africa’s manufactured goods.
Manufacturing makes up about 15 percent of the continent’s
largest economy. The U.K. and Spain have already entered a
recession, the governments of both nations confirmed last week.  The index measuring new-sales orders fell 4.3 points to
55.4 last month and the business activity sub-index was little
changed at 57.7, Kagiso said. The price sub-index fell 1.8
points to 71.1, the lowest level since January 2011, the
financial-services company said.  The Bureau for  Economic Research , based at the University
of Stellenbosch near  Cape Town , and the Institute of Purchasing
and Supply South Africa conduct the PMI survey on behalf of
Kagiso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  