-- S. Korea Flights Being Jammed in Possible Attack From North
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-05-02T06:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/south-korea-flights-being-jammed-in-possible-attack-from-north.html
North Korea  may be jamming the global
positioning systems of airliners flying into  South Korea , a
government official said.  A total of 252 planes flying in and out of Incheon
International and Gimpo airports since April 28 have had signals
jammed as of 10:40 a.m. today, the Land Ministry said today in a
statement on its website. Affected airlines include  Korean Air
Lines Co. (003490)  and  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , ministry official
Yang Chang Saeng said by phone.  “The signals are believed to be coming from North Korea
and we are keeping a close watch on this, considering the
current situation on the peninsula,” said Lee Kyung Oh, an
official at the Korea Communications Commission in  Seoul .  North Korea threatened last month to turn South Korean
President  Lee Myung Bak  and his government “to ashes in three
or four minutes” using “unprecedented peculiar means and
methods.” The regime’s heightened rhetoric over the past month
and its botched April 13 rocket launch has prompted speculation
it will soon detonate a nuclear device.  “The North Korean philosophy has been to attack in ways
that makes it hard to tell that they were behind it,” said Ahn
Cheol Hyun, a former National Intelligence Service agent and
head of Ahn’s Institute of Crisis Management in Seoul. “Signal
jamming and cyber attacks have been a low-cost, high-efficiency
way to provoke because you can never 100 percent prove that they
were responsible.”  Also affected by the jamming are  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , Japan
Airlines Co. and Thai Airway, the Land Ministry said. All
flights are operating as usual as pilots are using alternative
navigation systems when jams are noted, Yang said. Pilots and
airlines were alerted on April 28 and the KCC is investigating
the jamming, he added.  South Korea’s military equipment hasn’t been affected by
the jamming of signals, a Defense Ministry official told
reporters today in Seoul. He declined to be identified, citing
military policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  