-- South Korean Parliament Approves Carbon Trading System
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-05-02T12:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/south-korean-parliament-approves-carbon-trading-system.html
South Korea approved a cap-and-trade
system to cut carbon emissions as President  Lee Myung Bak  seeks
support from factories and power plants in the fastest-growing
producer of  greenhouse gases  among industrialized democracies.  The National Assembly passed a bill to establish a cap-and-
trade system in the country by 2015 with the backing of both
ruling and opposition parties, according to the assembly’s
webcast of the main session today.  “The bill is needed to cope with global  climate change 
and, domestically to reduce emissions of greenhouse gas
efficiently,” Kim Jae Kyung, a member of the ruling New
Frontier Party, said in the assembly’s plenary session before
voting. The bill was passed in a 148-0 vote, with 3 abstentions.  President Lee Myung Bak is struggling to sell the plan at
home after pledging in December 2009 at the United Nations
climate summit in Copenhagen to cut carbon emissions by 30
percent from forecast levels by 2020. The country’s largest
companies said the plan will hurt competitiveness.  Korea ’s decision follows an agreement at climate talks in
December among about 200 countries including the U.S. and  China 
to wait until 2015 to sign a global accord on emission
reductions that would take effect as late as 2020.  “Korea becomes an early adopter in  Asia ” of a cap-and-
trade program, Kang Hee Chan, a senior researcher at the Korea
Environment Institute, said by phone. “Korea joins Australia
and China, which plan to introduce the program in 2015.”  Fastest-Growing  South Korea is the world’s eighth-largest carbon emitter,
based on 2009 figures from the  International Energy Agency . The
country’s greenhouse-gas emissions jumped to about 640 million
metric tons in 2011 from 350 million tons in 1990, making it the
fastest-growing emissions source among 34 nations in the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance said in a Feb. 9 report.  Australia  voted last year to start a cap-and-trade system
in 2015.  New Zealand  started  emissions trading  in 2009, and the
European Union has operated the world’s biggest emissions market
since 2005.  South Korea imposed reduction goals in October 2011 on 458
polluters starting this year. They range from factories,
buildings and livestock farms that produce at least 25,000 tons
of carbon dioxide a year.  Unsettled Business  The Federation of Korean Industries  and the Korea Chamber
of Commerce & Industry, the nation’s top two business lobbies,
asked the government to delay introducing the plan, saying it
will increase costs and make industry less competitive against
countries that don’t impose charges on emissions.  Companies may face an additional 5.6 trillion won ($5
billion) of costs if a carbon market is implemented, according
to data from state-owned  Korea Energy Management Corp. , which
handles emissions reductions and promoting renewable energy.  “It might be challenging for Korea to cut  carbon emissions 
as requested by the government,” Kang said. “Its major
industries, by nature, are emitting lots of the gas.” Korea
largely depends on heavy industries such as steelmaking and
petrochemicals, he said.  The government is already providing tax and financial
incentives to encourage companies to cut their discharges,
including a supplementary payment, or feed-in tariff, for
renewable energy generated from 2002 until 2011.  Free Permits  These tariffs were replaced with a 2 percent renewable
portfolio standard, starting this year. The country’s 14 power
generators and other energy producers are required to derive a
fixed quota of their energy output from renewable sources,
including solar and wind. The mandatory cap will be raised to 10
percent by 2022.  The Korean government may give companies more than 95
percent of their permits for free for three to six years,
according to the bill. Companies would get 100 percent of their
permits for free depending on their contribution to the
country’s trade, according to an e-mailed statement from the
Knowledge Economy Ministry today. The government has yet to
announce any rules governing compliance, such as how many so-
called international offsets would be allowed in the program.  “It needs a lot of studies about the bill’s impact on
citizens’ living when mapping out details,” Yim Jong Yong,
minister of  the Prime Minister’s Office , told lawmakers in Seoul
today. “The government will try to determine details linking to
impacts.”  742 Million Tons  South Korea  would emit 742 million tons in 2020 without a
program to cut emissions, Andrea Du Rietz, a London-based
analyst at New Energy Finance, said in the note on Feb. 9.  The penalty for non-compliance is set at three times the
prevailing market price with a maximum of 100,000 won ($89.17)
per ton. The government raised the free allocation from original
90 percent, and lowered the upper limit on penalties five times
during consultations with industries. The bill will take effect
within six months, according to the statement from the ministry.  “The approved South Korean ETS could provide price support
for CERs in the long run and contribute to the longevity of the
global carbon market,” Du Rietz said in an e-mail today. “Any
links with the UN offset market are highly uncertain, but we
currently assume that approximately 20 percent of abatement
needed out to 2020 could be met by about 130 million CERs over
the six years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in  Seoul  at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  