-- Spanish Stocks Plunge to Three-Year Low as Banks Tumble
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-05-02T16:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/spanish-stocks-plunge-to-three-year-low-as-banks-tumble.html
Spanish stocks  plunged, pushing the
 IBEX 35 Index (IBEX)  to its lowest level in more than three years, as a
selloff in banks sent the benchmark measure tumbling.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , the  country’s largest lender , lost more
than 3 percent as Moody’s Investors Service prepared to
concluded its review of the euro area’s banks.  Sacyr
Vallehermoso SA (SYV)  dropped 4 percent as a report showed
manufacturing in Spain contracted. Red Electrica Corp. slid 2.2
percent as Bolivia seized the company’s local assets.  The IBEX 35 dropped 2.6 percent to 6,831.9 at the close in
Madrid, its lowest level since March 2009. The gauge has  sunk 20
percent this year , the worst performance of 24 developed markets
tracked by Bloomberg, as the Spanish economy entered its  second
recession  since 2008.  “The euro-zone debt crisis has become center stage once
more with  Spain  the focus of attention,” said Ted Scott,
director of global strategy at F&C Asset Management in London,
in a note to clients. Spanish bond yields “reflect the
diminishing effect of the European Central Bank’s liquidity
program and increasing concerns about the Spanish economy and
especially its banking sector.”  Spain’s benchmark 10-year bonds fell today, pushing yields
eight basis points higher to 5.85 percent.  Spain, Europe’s fifth-largest economy, has become the focus
of policy makers as they attempt to contain the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis and Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles
to quell speculation that the country will need a bailout.  De Guindos Meets Almunia  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos was said to have met
Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia today as the country
devises steps to clean up its banking industry.  De Guindos and Almunia were meeting in Brussels, an Economy
Ministry spokeswoman said yesterday, who asked not to be named
in line with policy.  Santander lost 3.3 percent to 4.56 euros, its lowest price
since March 2009.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,  Spain’s
second-largest bank , tumbled 3.3 percent to 4.94 euros and
 Bankia SA (BKIA) , the third biggest, sank 5.1 percent to 2.46 euros.  Moody’s is scheduled to conclude its reviews of western-
European banks by the end of June, according to a statement in
April. The rating company said in a March statement that it
planned to conclude the reviews last week.  Spanish Lenders’ Cash  Separately, Spanish banks are running out of cash borrowed
through the European Central Bank’s three-year loan program,
diminishing their “firepower” to buy  government bonds ,
according to strategists at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The lenders have used up 42.3 percent of the funds they
received, Harvinder Sian, Biagio Lapolla and Simon Peck,
interest-rate strategists in  London , wrote in a note to clients
on April 30. They cited the ECB’s December-to-March data.  Spanish construction-related companies fell today as data
showed manufacturing in Spain contracted in April. A factory
gauge based on a survey of purchasing managers slipped to 43.5
from 44.5 in March, according to London-based Markit Economics.
A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Sacyr Vallehermoso declined 4 percent to 1.31 euros and
ACS-Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA lost 3.8 percent
to 13.33 euros. Abertis Infraestructuras SA slid 1.4 percent to
11.53 euros.  Elsewhere, Red Electrica retreated 2.2 percent to 32.16
euros after Bolivia’s President,  Evo Morales , said he will
nationalize the Spanish grid operator’s unit in the South
American country. The decision occurred two weeks after
 Argentina  expropriated oil producer YPF SA from its Spanish
parent Repsol YPF SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  