-- Standard Chartered Revenue Grew ‘High Single Digit’ Rate
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   E s p i n o
-- 2012-05-02T16:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/standard-chartered-revenue-grew-high-single-digit-rate.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K.’s
second-largest bank by market value, said it had “high single
digit” revenue growth in the first quarter, driven by consumer
and wholesale-banking operations.  Revenue growth was curbed by the U.S. dollar’s strength
against Asian currencies, the London-based lender said in a
statement today, without giving specific figures. Operating
profit expanded by a “low double digit” rate from a year
earlier, the bank said. The lender is alone among Britain’s five
biggest banks in not disclosing detailed quarterly earnings.  Growth of 10 percent or more in markets including  Hong
Kong , Malaysia, Indonesia and China compensated for “subdued”
business sentiment in  India , Standard Chartered, said. Finance
Director Richard Meddings said the bank, which got more than 73
percent of pretax profit from Asia last year, started 2012 with
“good momentum” and is on target for “double-digit” revenue
growth this year. The lender plans to invest in its businesses
in  China , Hong Kong and add branches in Africa, he added.  “We continue to be positive towards the group, as it
operates in growth markets and has a balance sheet that doesn’t
need repositioning,” Chintan Joshi, an analyst at Nomura
International Plc in London, wrote in a report to clients today.
“However, the statement doesn’t suggest an upgrade to
expectations at this stage, and in the past upgrades have been a
catalyst for share price performance.”  Standard Chartered shares fell 3.9 percent to 1,453 pence
in London trading. The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index was 1.9 percent lower.  Accelerating Investment  “We’re investing in Hong Kong, China, in branches in
 Africa  on an accelerated basis and ahead of budget,” Meddings
said on a call with journalists today. “The acceleration in
investment is a real sign of confidence.”  The bank said it would hire as many as 2,000 people in 2012
after posting record earnings last year while lenders including
HSBC Holdings Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Barclays
Plc cut jobs. Headcount at the end of March was “broadly flat”
as compared with the end of last year, Standard Chartered said.  “They are pretty protected even if the West has a very
weak economic prospect for this year,” James Antos, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Mizuho Securities  Asia  Ltd., said by
telephone today. “Their business is really emerging-markets
oriented: Africa, the Middle East and Asia primarily.”  The  European Central Bank ’s 1 trillion-euro ($1.3 trillion)
longer-term refinancing operation meant many banks that would
otherwise have pulled back from Asia as they shrank their
balance sheets haven’t had to, Meddings said today in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Maryam Nemazee . The
sovereign debt crisis could yet produce a “shock” that would
negatively affect global trade volumes, he added.  “Macroeconomic sentiment is showing signs of improvement,
although there remain clear uncertainties and risks in the
global environment,” Chief Executive Officer  Peter Sands  said
in today’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Nathaniel Espino in Beijing at 
 nespino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  