-- Strip House Bores With Dull Steaks, Cardboard Shrimp
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-05-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/strip-house-bores-dull-steaks-cardboard-shrimp-review.html
Consider the bone-in-strip at Strip
House.  It costs $49, about the going rate for USDA Prime in  New
York . It’s a big son of a gun, standing almost two inches tall,
weighing 20 ounces.  The strip is broiled at 1,400 degrees, imparting a dark
char. It’s speckled with peppercorns and salt. Inside, the meat
is crimson rare.  Juices don’t spill out when cut, indicating that the
kitchen let the beef rest for a few minutes before sending it
out. So far, so good.  Then you take a bite. These cows were clearly raised on,
mostly, decent grass. There’s none of that unctuous mouth feel
you get from pure corn-fed beef.  Still, something’s not quite right.  The beef lacks beefiness. Remember those ethereal notes of
musk, minerals, game and liver from the dry-aged cuts at
Minetta? They’re nowhere to be found here, where the steaks are
wet-aged. Strip House’s sirloin has all the flavor of brined
chicken breast.  All right then, try the ribeye ($46). The texture and taste
are almost identical, with none of the signature marbling of a
Prime grade. Still, no one seems to notice.  Strip House is packed with well-dressed men and women who
will easily spend about $150 per person after wine, tax and tip.  Meat Market  Such is the unfortunate acceptance of mediocrity at Stephen Hanson’s latest acquisition. He’s the private-equity-backed
impresario behind the Dos Caminos national brand.  Why build a steakhouse when you can buy two? Last year,
Hanson purchased the  Greenwich Village  and Las Vegas locations
of Strip House, leaving the Florida, Texas and New Jersey
outposts with the original Glazier Group owners.  The Manhattan flagship, which once served some of the best
steaks anywhere, still boasts an “Amsterdam red” dining room,
designed by  David Rockwell .  Pictures of nudes still adorn the walls, suggesting the pun
that gives the place its name.  Downstairs, there’s a handsome new grill room for walk-ins;
the full menu is offered there, along with cheaper fare, like
tender fried calamari ($14), French onion soup ($12) and a
decent bacon burger ($18).  Sweet crabcakes ($17) and garlic bread ($8) are your go-to
appetizers. Caesar salad ($14) tastes fresh from the bag and
bottle while tomato salad is so cold your teeth will hurt ($14).  Abstain from the blubbery bacon strips ($19).  How Much?  Beware the up-sell. Waiters wax poetic about the raw
seafood platter. What’s the price tag?  “Ninety-eight dollars for the table.”  Funny, wasn’t it $49 on a previous visit? Strip House
conveniently forgets to mention the half-size tray if you’re a
party of four, even though the smaller serving can feed five.  Here’s what you get: oysters, some with pieces of shell,
others with no liquor, still others with popped bellies. Scallop
ceviche has lots of lemony tang, no shellfish sweetness. Alaskan
king crab legs are waterlogged and poached shrimp taste like
cardboard.  No Shells  Maine lobsters are listed as “market price.” How much
will a two-pounder cost?  “Twenty-six dollars per pound,” replies the server; he’d
rather not scare you off with the $52 price tag. The crustacean
arrives with the aromatic shell missing, the tamale and juices
gone.  Instead, there’s just a pile of meat, as if it had been
removed and reheated from a plastic container.  The porterhouse “for two” is advertised at $45 per
person, which means it’s always $90, especially for whoever’s
paying the bill. How does it taste? Like ordinary beef.  In any case, pair it with a Ladera California Cabernet
($20), or a Cotes De Bordeaux ($17) from Chateau Des Mille
Anges. Both have enough acid and tannins to keep court with the
steaks. But both are poured away from the table, which means you
really don’t know what you’re getting.  Truffled spinach ($12) manages to keep the flavor of the
greens amid all the cream. Also good are goose fat-fried
potatoes ($12) and the super-early creamed corn ($9).  Skip dessert. There’s no sting of alcohol in baked  Alaska 
because there’s no tableside flambe. And the banana tart tastes
like any other.  If traditional fine dining is effortless, Strip House
requires vigilance and patience; we weren’t seated until 30
minutes past our reservation one night. The casual, careless
atmosphere of American steakhouses doesn’t fly in an era of food
inflation where beef, once an affordable indulgence, is now a
$50 luxury.  Rating: *  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: About $150 per person after wine, tax, tip.  Sound Level: Very loud, often over 80 decibels.  Inside Tip: Dry-aged cuts sometimes offered as specials.  Special Feature: Higher-end wines by the glass available
downstairs, like a $28 Duckhorn Merlot. (For no good reason,
those wines are not served upstairs.)  Back on My Own Dime: No.  Strip House is at 13 East 12th Street. Information: +1-212-
328-0000 or  http://www.striphouse.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  art auctions  and  Greg Evans  on
film.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 