-- Sum of Swap Rules May Hurt Trading as Costs Rise, Executives Say
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-05-02T19:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/sum-of-swap-rules-may-hurt-trading-as-costs-rise-executives-say.html
Proposed rules to increase
transparency in the $708 trillion private  derivatives market  may
combine for an amplified effect that boosts costs for users,
according to industry executives.  Trading in interest-rate, credit-default and other swaps
may decrease if several changes are taken together,  James Hill ,
a managing director at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , said today at the annual
conference of the  International Swaps and Derivatives
Association  in  Chicago .  “I’m very concerned there’s a multiplier effect to this,”
Hill said during a panel discussion. “That’s something we need
to look out for.” He listed increased costs associated with
margin for swaps trades, for processing transactions with a
clearinghouse and increased capital requirements banks will have
to adopt.  Banks,  hedge funds  and asset managers active in the over-
the-counter  derivatives market  are adapting to changes mandated
by the Dodd Frank Act passed by Congress in 2010, including a
requirement to process most swaps with a clearinghouse to cut
counterparty risk. While embracing measures to adopt clearing,
the industry group has opposed requirements that any cleared
swap be traded on exchanges or similar electronic systems.  There needs to be time for market users to adapt to the
changes coming under Dodd Frank and to absorb the costs, said
William De Leon, global head of portfolio risk management at
 Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co.  ‘Knock-on Effects’  “The cold-turkey effect can be quite large,” said De
Leon, who is also an ISDA board member. “As you add them up,
the unknowns are quite large and the potential knock-on effects
are larger than we’d hoped.”  Making prices known to the public helps improve market
activity,  Gary Gensler , chairman of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, said today in remarks to the conference.  “Economists for decades have shown that transparency
lowers trading costs, lowers bid-ask spreads, increases
liquidity,” Gensler said.  Such a view is at odds with trading in swaps markets, Hill
said.  “That’s simply not correct in these markets,” he said.
“There are times increased transparency can reduce liquidity.”  De Leon said the effects of publicly reporting swaps trade
prices and moving trading onto electronic systems could harm
large investors.  Increased Transparency  “For the occasional user of derivatives who’s not watching
the market every day who trades small size, this transparency
will be a benefit to them because they’ll get more
information,” he said.  For larger investors who trade in bigger size on behalf of
clients, increased transparency may hurt the firm as “the bid-
ask will be higher and it will ultimately hurt our investors,”
De Leon said. “From that standpoint I think the market needs to
be patient” and not rush implementation of the rules, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 