-- Sunstone’s Chicago Hotel Purchase Part of Expansion Plan
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-05-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/sunstone-to-buy-wyndham-chicago-hotel-for-88-4-million.html
Sunstone Hotel Investors Inc. (SHO)  agreed
to buy the Wyndham Chicago hotel from  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  for
$88.4 million as part of a plan to expand in major U.S. cities
including  Boston ,  Washington  and  New York .  Sunstone will fund the purchase with $30 million of cash
and $58.4 million of common shares, to be issued to New York-
based Blackstone at the equivalent of $10.71 each, the Aliso
Viejo, California-based real estate investment trust said in a
statement yesterday. The 417-room hotel will be renamed the
Hyatt Chicago Magnificent Mile.  Sunstone, which plans to team with  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  on a
$25 million renovation of the property, is looking to buy
additional hotels in Chicago and other gateway cities, including
 Los Angeles , in off-market transactions, according to Chief
Executive Officer Ken Cruse.  “We want to avoid competition from other public REITs,”
he said in a telephone interview. “We’ve been able to privately
negotiate deals at a much better price than generically marketed
deals that tend to be hotly contested.”  Sunstone wants to add hotels in markets where it already
has a presence to take advantage of operational synergies, Cruse
said. The company already owns an Embassy Suites in Chicago.
Sunstone also is betting on demand from high-end business
travelers and smaller groups in cities such as Chicago, said
John Arabia, the hotelier’s chief financial officer.  Revenue per available room, a measure of occupancies and
rates, climbed 14 percent to $56.74 in the first quarter in
 Chicago , the fifth-biggest increase among the top 25 U.S.
markets, according to Smith Travel Research Inc. of
Hendersonville, Tennessee.  Adjacent to Hospitals  “The Chicago hotel market has seen supply growth over the
last few years, which has been largely absorbed,” Arabia said.
“One thing this location has is a significant presence of
medical businesses and the expansion of several hospitals within
a several-block radius.”  The hotel is adjacent to Northwestern Medical Hospital, the
Feinberg School of Medicine and the 23-story Ann & Robert Lurie
Children’s Memorial Hospital, scheduled to open in June. The
purchase price works out to about $212,000 per room, Sunstone
said. The company’s investment will be about $250,000 a room
including renovation costs, it said.  Blackstone will own about 5 percent of Sunstone following
the transaction, scheduled for completion by midyear.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  