-- Supertankers Delayed in China as Nation Fills Strategic Reserves
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e   a n d   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-05-02T11:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/supertankers-delayed-in-china-as-nation-fills-strategic-reserves.html
Delays emptying supertankers at ports
in  China  are spiraling as the world’s biggest energy consumer
scours the globe for alternatives to Iranian oil to fill its
strategic reserves, driving up shipping costs.  Very large crude carriers hauling 2 million-barrel cargoes
are waiting as long as 10 days to discharge, compared with two
normally, Ody Valatsas, chartering manager of Dynacom Tankers
Management Ltd., an Athens-based owner of 11 of the vessels,
said by e-mail today. The increase took place in the past two
months, he said. Delays are nine days, compared with about two
usually, according to Nikos Varvaropoulos, an official at
Athens-based Optima Shipbrokers Ltd.  China, which aims to more than double its reserve capacity,
imported a record 23.5 million metric tons of crude a month in
the first quarter, customs data show. Purchases from  Venezuela 
more than doubled from a year earlier and deliveries from Angola
climbed 25 percent. Its imports from  Iran  slumped to the lowest
level since 2010.  “There has been increased chartering activity as the
Chinese have sourced alternative supplies to Iran and filled
their strategic reserves, so the Chinese have logically
overwhelmed their ability to discharge into their ports,” said
Nigel Prentis, director of research at HSBC Shipping Services
Ltd. in London. “This is restricting supply of ships available
for new cargoes in the  Persian Gulf  and all helps to lever up
freight rates.”  $39,532 a Day  The cost to ship Middle East oil to  Asia , the biggest VLCC
trade route, rose 29 percent to 64.08 industry-standard
Worldscale points since the start of the year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Daily earnings on the route advanced 90
percent to $39,532, data from shipbroker Poten & Partners show.  China was the largest buyer of Iranian crude in 2010,
according to the U.S. Energy Department. The U.S. and the
European Union have imposed sanctions on the Middle East
country’s oil in an effort to halt its nuclear program.  China will complete eight new emergency oil-stockpiling
centers by early next year, part of a strategy to raise reserve
capacity to 271.8 million barrels from 103.2 million, according
to China National Petroleum Corp., the nation’s largest crude
producer. That’s enough for about 28 days of consumption,
International Energy Agency data show.  The country imported 1.94 million tons of Venezuelan crude
(about 14 million barrels) in March, the most since at least
2008, customs data show. Purchases from  Angola  totaled 3.6
million tons, the largest amount since September 2010. Iranian
supply fell to 1.43 million tons from 2.5 million in the fourth
quarter of last year.  Frontline, OSG  Frontline Ltd. (FRO) , the Hamilton, Bermuda-based company that
lists 42 supertankers on its website, has advanced 52 percent to
$6.50 in  New York  trading this year. Overseas Shipholding Group
Ltd., the largest U.S. operator of the vessels, has gained 6.2
percent.  Jens Martin Jensen, Singapore-based chief executive officer
of Frontline’s management unit, said delays off China are
expanding in an e-mailed response to questions.  The six-member  Bloomberg Tanker Index (TANKER) , which also spans
owners of smaller vessels, has advanced 31 percent this year.  “These delays are a reflection of China’s huge demand for
oil, and they are allowing owners to push up rates,” said
Varvaropoulos, who is based in Dubai. “Even though everybody
knows that China is where the growth is coming from, what we are
seeing now is pretty extraordinary.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  