-- Suzano Unit Gets Brazil Approval to Trial GM Forest for Biomass
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-05-02T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/suzano-unit-gets-brazil-approval-to-trial-gm-forest-for-biomass.html
FuturaGene Ltd. U.K., held by  Suzano
Papel e Celulose SA , said it won approval from  Brazil  for the
world’s most advanced trial of a genetically modified forest as
it seeks to boost yields of trees used in biomass  power plants .  The company will plant modified eucalyptus trees in coming
weeks in a fourth trial to test the safety and effectiveness of
the technology, Chief Executive Officer Stanley Hirsch said in
an interview. Inserting genes into trees allows increased yields
for electricity generation or manufacturing of pulp and paper.  Biomass may make up about 21 percent of the world’s energy
supply by 2050, curbing fossil fuel emissions, the  International
Energy Agency  says. FuturaGene is seeking to use its technology
commercially in late 2015 to early 2016 when trials are finished
and yield-enhanced eucalyptus approved, Hirsch said in  London .  “This pioneering fourth trial is a key step toward the
commercial deployment of our first plantation product,” he
said. The test of the technology is the world’s most advanced
for an enhanced-yield plantation forest, according to Hirsch.  The trees may produce about 1 million tons of wood pellets
from about 38,000 hectares (93,900 acres) of plantation land or
enough to power a 200-megawatt power station, he said. Biomass
such as wood and farm waste has the highest potential for growth
of any renewable  power source , according to the Paris-based IEA.  Greenpeace are among those opposed to genetic engineering
for food or non-food crops because of possible risks to the
environment. While WWF International has sought a moratorium on
use of genetic modification until the technology is fully
researched and safeguards are in place, the environmental
organization is now revising its position, it said by phone.  “Genetic-modified technology, if you look at it
scientifically, is a vital sustainability tool that allows you
to do more with less resource,” Hirsch said. “The
misperception is really damaging the ability to actually push
these products into the market,” he said.  FuturaGene, bought by Suzano Papel e Celulose in July 2010,
also plans to improve yields of poplar trees and has facilities
in Brazil,  China  and  Israel , according to the company.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  