-- Swisscom First-Quarter Net Drops Less Than Analyst Estimates
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-05-02T08:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/swisscom-first-quarter-net-income-453-million-swiss-francs.html
Swisscom AG (SCMN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest
phone company, reported first-quarter profit fell less than
analysts expected as new offerings offset price competition.  Net income declined to 453 million Swiss francs ($498
million) from 469 million francs a year earlier, the Bern-based
company said today in a statement. Revenue fell 2.1 percent to
2.8 billion francs. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated net
income of 437.6 million francs and sales of 2.79 billion francs.  “This set of results seems to indicate that the company
has reached a near-bottom, with the Swiss business providing
stability,” Saeed Baradar, a telecommunications sales
specialist at  Societe Generale , said in a note. “Defensive
credentials are re-established and in my view a good place to
hide in a sector which is in long-term structural decline.”  Swisscom is countering competition and declining
revenue from traditional phone calls and  text messages  by adding
customers and launching flat-rate and bundled offerings, such as
Vivo Casa, which combines telephone, broadband and television
services.  Swisscom rose  2.7 percent to 347.30 francs as of 10:08 a.m.
in Zurich trading, giving the company a market value of 18
billion francs. The shares have dropped 2.3 percent this year
compared with a 3.8 percent increase in the 20-stock Swiss
Market Index.  Declining Revenue  In February, Swisscom predicted lower revenue in 2012 after
posting its first quarterly loss in almost a decade on a
writedown of Italian fixed-line unit Fastweb SpA. Swisscom,
which bought Fastweb in 2007 to make up for slowing growth in
Switzerland, has suffered from competition in  Italy  and a
declining euro that hurts sales converted into francs. Almost
half of the 4.3 percent decline in Swisscom’s revenue last year
was caused by the weakening of the euro, the company  said .  Swisscom has  predicted  that 2012 revenue will drop to 11.4
billion francs with earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of 4.4 billion francs. Swisscom
reiterated that if all 2012 targets are met, it plans to propose
a dividend of 22 francs per share to be paid next year.  Swisscom’s domestic operations reported a 0.1 percent
decline in revenue. Customer growth and new bundled offerings
made up for the decline in revenue resulting from “intense”
competition, pressure on prices and changes in the behavior of
customer, the company said. Users are increasingly switching
from traditional services such as phone calls and text messages
to new IP-based applications and social media platforms,
Swisscom added.  Price Erosion  The company said in February that customer growth and
revenue from new businesses isn’t expected to fully offset price
erosion caused by increased competition and regulation in 2012.
A non-cash increase of about 70 million francs in pension costs
will also weigh on Ebitda.  “At the moment we’re assuming that price erosion will be
similar to last year, between 400 million francs and 500 million
francs,” Chief Executive Officer Carsten Schloter said in a
conference call today.  The customer base at Fastweb grew by 59,000 users to 1.65
million. Net revenue at the business fell 2.8 percent to 423
million euros ($559 million) due to a decline in low-margin
wholesale revenue from interconnection services, known as
hubbing.  “Customer acquisition in Italy was extremely strong,” the
CEO said. “We won many more customers than we originally
planned.”  Schloter said the company plans to increase the share of
outsourcing at Fastweb, relying on external companies for
functions such as customer care.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  