-- U.K. March Mortgage Approvals Unexpectedly Rise, BOE Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-05-02T08:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/u-k-march-mortgage-approvals-unexpectedly-rise-boe-says-1-.html
U.K.  mortgage approvals  rose in March,
defying predictions of a drop as a tax break for first-time home
buyers expired.  Lenders granted 49,860 loans to buy homes, compared with
49,029 in February, the  Bank of England  said today in London.
Economists forecast 48,000, based on the median of 21 estimates
in Bloomberg survey.  The property market received a boost in January as first-
time buyers took advantage of a  tax exemption  on purchases of
homes costing less than 250,000 pounds ($405,000) before it
ended March 24. Approvals in February fell to the lowest since
mid 2011.  “The numbers are a bit firmer than we expected, though
there’s a risk they’ll continue to soften after the stamp-duty
holiday expired,” said  David Page , an economist at Lloyds TSB
Bank in London. “We’re looking for the market to be relatively
flat going into the end of the year.”  A separate report today showed U.K.  construction growth 
slowed less than economists forecast in April. A gauge of
building activity based on a survey fell to 55.8 from 56.7 in
March, Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply  said in a report in London. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 11 economists was for a
reading of 54. A result above 50 indicates expansion.  The pound rose against the dollar after the reports and was
trading at $1.6223 as of 9:52 a.m. in London, little changed on
the day.  Double Dip  Surveys shows the  property market  is struggling to gain
traction as banks limit lending and consumers are squeezed by
rising energy prices. Confidence may be further undermined after
figures last week showed the economy in its first  double-dip 
recession since the 1970s.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  will deliver a radio
address from London later today, a week before officials meet to
decide whether to extend their stimulus program known as
quantitative easing.  Net mortgage lending rose 966 million pounds in March,
while  consumer credit  increased 419 million pounds, the central
bank said. Credit-card lending rose 203 million pounds.  The Bank of England will announce its next policy decision
on May 10 against a backdrop of deepening troubles in the euro
region, the largest market for U.K. exports.  Spain  this week
joined Britain,  Italy , the Netherlands and Ireland in recession
as efforts to tackle unprecedented debt burdens sap demand.  New Forecasts  The Monetary Policy Committee will have new growth and
inflation forecasts. They’ll also have completed their latest 50
billion-pound round of asset purchases. Officials held their
 stimulus target  at 325 billion pounds last month and kept the
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent.  The decision may be complicated by figures today showing
the measure of  M4 money supply  the bank uses to assess the
effectiveness of its asset purchases rose at the fastest pace
since the fourth quarter of 2007.  The gauge rose 6.4 percent in the three months through
March on an annualized basis from 1.3 percent in the period
through February, the central bank said. It excludes financial
companies that specialize in intermediating between banks, such
as holding companies and non-bank credit grantors.  Total M4 fell 0.8 percent in March from February and was
down 5 percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  