-- 107 People Charged With $452 Million in Medicare Fraud
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n ,   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-05-02T22:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/u-s-charges-seven-in-226-million-medicare-fraud.html
Federal authorities charged 107 people
with Medicare fraud in a multistate operation, alleging schemes
involving about $452 million in false billing, officials in
 Washington  announced.  The U.S. charged doctors, nurses and other licensed medical
professionals with schemes including submitting bills to
Medicare for unnecessary services and providing and paying
kickbacks to acquire patient information for fraudulent bills.  The indictments were the result of an investigation by the
Medicare Fraud Strike Force in seven U.S. cities including
Miami, Detroit,  Chicago , Houston,  Los Angeles , Tampa,  Florida ,
and Baton Rouge, Louisiana, prosecutors said.  “Today’s arrests send a strong message to criminals that
the consequences of committing Medicare fraud are serious,”
Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said in a
statement. “In addition to these arrests, we used new authority
from the health-care law to stop all future payments to 52
health-care providers suspected of fraud.”  Those charged include 59 defendants in Miami, accused of
bilking the Medicare program of $137 million in false billings
for home health care, mental health and other services.  Seven individuals in Baton Rouge,  Louisiana , were accused
of submitting $225 million in false claims through two community
mental health centers, about half the total alleged fraudulent
billings.  Largest Operation  “This coordinated takedown involved the highest amount of
false Medicare billings in a single takedown in strike force
history,” the  Justice Department  said in a statement today. The
operation was the fourth in a series of such operations in the
past two years, Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer said.  “These fraud schemes were committed by people up and down
the chain of health-care providers -- from doctors, nurses and
licensed clinical social workers to office managers and patient
recruiters,” Breuer said today at a press conference.  The  Baton Rouge  case is the largest-ever prosecution of a
community mental health care-related scheme, the U.S. said.  The Baton Rouge defendants “allegedly recruited elderly,
drug-addicted and mentally ill patients from nursing homes and
homeless shelters in order to submit false claims on their
behalf,” Breuer said.  “They also allegedly falsified patient notes and
attendance records, and forged the signatures of medical
professionals -- all to make it appear as though their patients
were receiving medical services when, in fact, they were not,”
he said.  Clinic Owners  Those indicted in Baton Rouge included Hoor Naz Jafri and
Roslyn F. Dogan, owners of two community mental-health clinics
in that city.  “Jafri and Dogan directed and facilitated a large-scale
scheme to bilk Medicare of hundreds of millions of dollars by
taking advantage of the most vulnerable,” U.S. Attorney  Donald
J. Cazayoux Jr . in Baton Rouge said in court papers.  The women admitted the patients without regard to
eligibility and continued treating them even after therapists
complained it was inappropriate to do so, Cazayouz alleged.  “After the entities through which they operated their
fraudulent scheme were placed on suspension by Medicare in
September 2011, they reconstituted their fraudulent enterprise
by purchasing another company,” Cazayoux said in court papers.  “Finally, Dogan participated in and encouraged the
destruction of possibly incriminating files, and she personally
even stole evidence from the U.S. Attorney’s Office in order to
obstruct the investigation and conceal fraudulent activity,”
Cazayoux said in court papers.  Guilty Pleas  The indictment against the seven Baton Rouge defendants was
filed under seal the day before four therapists at the centers
pleaded guilty to one count each of conspiracy to commit health-
care fraud.  The Miami defendants include clinic and pharmacy owners,
three nurses, two therapists, four patients and one accountant,
U.S. Attorney  Wifredo Ferrer  said. Federal officials arrested 57
of those indicted and two are fugitives, Ferrer said.  “They each tried to use the Medicare program as their own
personal ATMs to steal precious health-care dollars,” Ferrer
said today at a press conference.  In  Detroit , 22 defendants, including four licensed social
workers were charged with cheating Medicare of $58 million in
false claims for medically unnecessary services.  Clinic Staffers  In one Detroit indictment, Sanyani Edwards, controller of
Funderburg Clinical and Community Services Inc., and Angel
Williams, an office manager there, were charged with one count
each of conspiracy to commit health-care fraud and five counts
of health-care fraud.  Edwards and Williams would bill Medicare using provider
numbers for licensed social workers without the workers’
knowledge or authorization “for services that were medically
unnecessary and not provided,” the U.S. said in the indictment.  The government charged Raymond Arias, the owner of another
Michigan clinic, with six counts of health-care fraud. Medicare
paid Arias’s business, Elite Wellness LLC, of Westland,
 Michigan , about $3.8 million “on false and fraudulent claims,”
the U.S. said. About $2.6 million of this was transferred to
bank accounts in Mexico and  Panama , according to an indictment.  Nine Houston-area residents were charged with participating
in schemes involving $16.4 million in false billings for home
health-care and ambulance services, the U.S. Attorney’s Office
in Houston said.  Among those charged were Nick Patzakis and Jarvis Thomas, a
doctor and nurse, respectively, who allegedly submitted $9.7
million in false Medicare billings through two home health
agencies, with the help of two other co-conspirators. Four
owners of Houston-area ambulance services were also charged in
separate indictments with filing $6.7 million in bogus Medicare
claims for ambulance rides that were either medically
unnecessary or never provided.  The U.S. also charged eight Los Angeles-area residents with
allegedly participating in schemes to submit more than $14
million in false bills to Medicare. The charges include an
indictment handed down April 24 against two officials with Latay
Medical Services, which provides health-care equipment to
patients.  Latay owner Bolademi Adetola, of Harbor City, and employee
Yuri Martin Lopez, of Lawndale, allegedly obtained fraudulent
prescriptions for power wheelchairs, orthotics and hospital beds
that were either not provided or weren’t medically necessary,
U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr. said today in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington
at   sstern14@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at of  laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 