-- U.S. Treasury Studies Floating-Rate Benefit, Decision Later
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s ,   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-05-02T13:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/u-s-treasury-studies-floating-rate-benefit-decision-later-1-.html
The U.S. Treasury Department said it
sees benefits in the issuance of floating-rate notes, while a
decision will be made “at a later date.”  The government also said it plans to sell $72 billion in
notes and bonds at next week’s quarterly refunding. The Treasury
intends to auction $32 billion in 3-year notes on May 8, $24
billion in 10-year notes on May 9 and $16 billion in 30-year
bonds on May 10.  “Treasury believes that there are benefits to issuing
floating-rate notes,” the department said in a statement today
and it is analyzing the “significant amount of feedback” on
the topic. “Treasury will announce its conclusion about
issuance of FRNs at a later date, after our analysis has been
completed.”  A Treasury official briefing reporters today declined to
give a date for the decision. On a different matter, the
Treasury official also said while there are good reasons to have
negative yields at Treasury auctions, no decision has been made
and there are operational challenges.  Next Week  Treasury said next week’s auctions will raise $35.3 billion
of new cash. The department said it expects to keep note and
bond auction sizes stable in the coming months.  “Going forward, Treasury will provide guidance to market
participants regarding any changes in the fiscal outlook that
might impact the government’s financing needs,” the statement
said.  Floating-rate notes, which are already being offered by
 Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac  and some European banks, have coupon
payments linked to changes in short-term rates, which have been
near zero since late 2008. The Treasury has sought to lock in
borrowing costs for longer and cut the amount of outstanding
short-term bills, which  ballooned  to $2.1 trillion during the
financial crisis that began almost five years ago.  The notes would be the first new U.S. government debt
security since Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, known as
TIPS, were introduced in 1997.  Global Demand  “The goal is to meet the global demand for liquid stable-
value instruments without adding to the government’s rollover
risk,”  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey , said before today’s Treasury statement.  “Floating-rate notes offer investors all the store-of-
value advantages of a T-bill without increasing the Treasury’s
rollover exposure. The proposal is a neat solution of the
problem of reconciling these competing objectives,” Crandall
said.  The securities may appeal to investors wary that four years
of Federal Reserve monetary stimulus will spark inflation and
cause the central bank to lift short-term rates even though
policy makers have said they foresee keeping borrowing costs
near zero at least through late 2014.  The Treasury Borrowing Advisory  Committee , the bond dealers
and investors who meet quarterly with the agency,  unanimously 
endorsed them in February.  By offering floaters, the Treasury would show that it
“doesn’t want to appear to be complacent about the explosion in
its rollover requirement in recent years,” Crandall said.  Money has plowed into Treasuries at a record pace. Demand
is increasing amid regulatory requirements that banks hold safer
assets and investors flee  Europe ’s financial turmoil.  Investors bid $4.50 for every dollar of four-week Treasury
bills offered at auction in the first quarter, compared with a
 bid-to-cover ratio  of 2.7 during the first quarter of 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net 
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ; 