-- UBS CEO Ermotti to Tackle Investor Pay Complaints at AGM
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-05-02T12:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/ubs-ceo-ermotti-to-tackle-investor-pay-complaints-at-agm.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  pledged to address the concerns of investors planning to
vote against the remuneration policy of  Switzerland ’s biggest
bank at its annual general meeting in Zurich tomorrow.  “The reality is that we really need to keep up the
dialogue with shareholders and listen to what they have to say
and understand their concerns and address them to the maximum
way possible,” Ermotti said today in a Bloomberg television
interview.  Some investors plan to vote against UBS’s pay proposals
because the Zurich-based bank’s board uses too much discretion,
rather than performance-related criteria, to decide bonuses. UBS
cut its 2011 bonus pool by 40 percent to 2.6 billion Swiss
francs ($2.8 billion) as profit dropped 45 percent after a $2.3
billion loss from unauthorized trading in September.  “We’re voting against the remuneration report,” said
George  Dallas , London-based head of corporate governance at F&C
Management Ltd. “They funded a bonus we thought was excessive
given their performance. The fraud incident demonstrated
weaknesses in their controls.”  Shareholder scrutiny into compensation for top managers is
increasing. Citigroup Inc. shareholders rejected the bank’s
executive pay plan on April 18 amid criticism it lets CEO Vikram Pandit collect millions of dollars in rewards too easily.
Barclays Plc CEO  Robert Diamond  will forgo about 11 percent of
his total paycheck if he fails to meet profitability goals after
investors opposed his package.  Bonuses Too High  Ethos, a Geneva-based foundation that owns UBS stock and
advises other institutional shareholders, and ISS, a  New York- 
based adviser to 1,300 firms, are objecting to the Swiss bank’s
pay proposals for the second consecutive year.  “Variable compensation for top executives is too high,”
said Vinzenz Mathys, a spokesman for  Ethos . “It’s important to
give a very clear signal to the board by voting no.”  UBS revamped its compensation system in late 2008. The
changes implemented then included the introduction of claw-back
provisions to allow taking back parts of bonuses for certain
executives and staff in the years after the award. The bank also
made fixed salaries a bigger part of total pay.  “We do understand that shareholders are not happy about
what happened in the last couple of years,” said Ermotti, who
joined UBS last April and took over as CEO after  Oswald Gruebel 
resigned. Ermotti received 6.35 million francs last year,
including a 4.6 million-franc bonus, 88 percent of which was
deferred into future years.  Restoring Reputation  Kaspar Villiger, who plans to step down as UBS chairman
tomorrow, said on April 18 that the bank will base Ermotti’s
bonus in part on the progress he makes in restoring the firm’s
reputation. Compensation will be based on a number of
qualitative as well as performance-based criteria, and client
and staff satisfaction will also play a role, Villiger said.  About 27 percent of Barclays’s shareholders and 32 percent
of Credit Suisse Group AG investors last week voted against the
companies’ remuneration plans. About 32 percent of UBS
shareholders last year voted against the company’s compensation
report in a consultative vote.  UBS reported a 54 percent decline in first-quarter profit
earlier today after a charge related to the company’s own debt
led to a loss at the investment bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  