-- UBS Wealth Management Inflows Top Estimates; Shares Rise
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-05-02T15:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/ubs-profit-drops-54-on-investment-bank-debt-charge.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
attracted more funds from wealthy clients in the first quarter
than analysts estimated, sending the company’s shares to the
biggest advance in two weeks.  UBS  rose  3.7 percent in Zurich trading after saying its
wealth management units attracted 10.9 billion Swiss francs ($12
billion) in net new funds, more than the 8.8 billion-franc
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “I’m very impressed,” said Ralph Silva, a strategist at
Silva Research Network, in an interview on Bloomberg Television
today. “UBS has done an incredible job over the past few years.
It’s an incredible feat, if you consider how poor the UBS brand
was a mere 12 months ago.”  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  said he’s
“confident” the bank will continue to rebuild its wealth
management business while market conditions remain
“challenging.” UBS is shrinking its investment bank by almost
half to focus more on business with wealthy customers.  UBS rose 42 centimes to 11.75 francs. The stock’s 5.1
percent advance this year compares with a 2.4 percent gain in
the 43-company Bloomberg  Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index  and a 3.7 percent decline at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , its
biggest Swiss competitor.  Wealth Management  Net income in the first quarter fell 54 percent to 827
million francs from 1.81 billion francs in the year-earlier
period, after a charge related to the company’s own debt and a
17 percent drop in revenue led to a loss at the investment bank.
Profit surpassed the average estimate of 810.9 million francs in
a  survey  of nine analysts.  “We still see the same situation: clients’ activity is
very volatile, clients are very uncertain considering what’s
going on in  Europe  and overall in the macroeconomic conditions
of the world,” Ermotti said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “Therefore it’s going to be still a challenging
environment.”  Wealth management profit rose 24 percent to 803 million
francs, helped by a reduction in expenses related to changes in
the company’s Swiss pension plan, while wealth management
Americas increased earnings 71 percent to 190 million francs.  UBS managed 1.5 trillion francs in assets for wealthy
clients at the end of March. The company, which posted the
 biggest loss  in Swiss corporate history in 2008, saw net inflows
resume in the third quarter of 2010 after customers pulled a net
233.7 billion francs in the 10 prior quarters.  Not ‘So Rosy’  “Our people are working very hard to continue this
trend,” Ermotti said. “Net new money is also a function of
wealth creation and the economic conditions out there are not
necessarily so rosy. But we’re confident that we can continue to
regain back our leading position.”  UBS was ranked the third-biggest wealth manager by assets
under management after  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of
America Corp.  and New York-based Morgan Stanley in a survey
published in July by Scorpio Partnership, a London-based
provider of research and industry analysis.  UBS attracted 4.9 billion francs in money from rich clients
from the Asia Pacific, 3.2 billion francs in Switzerland and 1.2
billion francs from  emerging markets , while European customers
pulled a net 2.7 billion francs. Wealth management Americas
added 4.2 billion francs in the quarter.  “The improved net new money inflows, especially from
Switzerland and emerging markets, show that confidence has
returned to the bank and profitability is improving,”  Teresa Nielsen , an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG, said in a note.
“The bank is well capitalized to withstand potential economic
shocks.”  Accounting Charge  The bank’s Tier 1 capital ratio rose to 18.7 percent at the
end of March from 15.9 percent at the end of 2011. UBS said in
November it intends to cut risk-weighted assets at the
investment bank by 145 billion francs from 300 billion francs by
2016, under Basel III rules. Risk-weighted assets at the
investment bank were cut by about 21 billion francs in the first
quarter.  UBS’s earnings in the quarter were burdened by a 1.16
billion-franc charge related to the bank’s own debt. The
accounting charge stems from a rule that requires banks to book
a loss if the price of their debt increases. The investment bank
posted a pretax loss of 373 million francs compared with a
profit of 833 million francs a year earlier. Excluding the
charge, the unit had a pretax profit of 730 million francs.  Trading Revenue  Revenues at the investment bank fell to 2.89 billion francs
in the quarter from 3.5 billion francs a year earlier. The
unit’s revenue from sales and trading fell 18 percent to 2.49
billion francs, while  Citigroup Inc. (C) , JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Bank of America and Morgan Stanley on
average reported a 6.1 percent increase in trading revenues
excluding valuation adjustments, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “We’re defining a new business model, which is a business
model based on our desire to reduce capital allocation in the
investment bank and also the reality of Basel III,” Ermotti
said. “That’s our benchmark. We’re not too bothered about
benchmarking against players that have different business mix or
different strategic goals or different regulatory
environments.”  Leadership Changes  The company said in March that  Andrea Orcel , a top Bank of
America dealmaker, will join in July to run the investment bank
with 45-year-old Carsten Kengeter. Orcel, 48, who joined Merrill
Lynch & Co. in 1992, was among the biggest dealmakers when the
firm was independent, and was named chairman of global banking
and markets after Bank of America acquired Merrill Lynch in
September 2008.  The Italian banker, who got a reported $33.8 million in
compensation for 2008, will be joining other former Merrill
Lynch employees at UBS, including Ermotti,  Robert McCann , 54,
who heads business in the Americas, and  Mike Stewart , 43, who
heads the global equities business at the investment bank.  UBS was shaken by the discovery of a $2.3 billion loss from
unauthorized trading in September, which resulted in the
departure of CEO  Oswald Gruebel , 68. Chairman  Kaspar Villiger ,
71, plans to step down at the bank’s annual shareholder meeting
tomorrow after former Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , 55, is
elected to the board of directors.  Credit Suisse last week reported that its securities unit
also benefited less from the rebound in debt markets in the
first quarter than U.S. competitors as the Zurich-based company
accelerated the reduction of risk-weighted assets.  Net income 
fell to 44 million francs from 1.14 billion francs in the year-
earlier period after accounting charges related to Credit
Suisse’s own debt and costs for 2011 bonuses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  