-- Lufthansa Loss Widens on Slowing European Economy, Fuel
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-05-02T17:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/lufthansa-s-quarterly-loss-widens-on-economy-restructuring-bill.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  said its first-
quarter loss widened as European economies slowed and the cost
of fuel and restructuring measures weighed on earnings.  Lufthansa had an operating loss of 381 million euros ($501
million), versus a 169 million-euro deficit a year earlier, the
Cologne, Germany-based company said in a statement. Analysts had
predicted a 297 million-euro loss, according to six  estimates .  Europe ’s second-biggest airline has frozen capacity growth
as it seeks to implement a 1.5 billion-euro savings plan by
2014, consolidating administrative operations between its short-
haul unit and Germanwings low-cost brand. Sales rose 5.6 percent
to 6.6 billion euros in the first three months, it said today.  “The additional revenue could not, however, offset the
cost increases, in particular for fuel,” Lufthansa said in the
statement, reiterating a forecast for full-year operating profit
in the “mid three-digit million euro range,” excluding costs
from the restructuring which may have “an adverse effect.”  Lufthansa has begun a profit-improvement plan known as
SCORE, from Synergies, Costs, Organization, Revenues, Execution,
after completing a package that saved 1 billion euros through
2011. Fuel costs are continuing to clip airline earnings after
the cost of  Brent crude  increased 5.8 percent this year to
$117.94 a barrel on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  ‘Odds and Ends’  Subsidiaries Austrian Airlines and U.K.-based BMI have also
weighed on Lufthansa’s earnings, as has a ban on flights at its
 Frankfurt  hub between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m., upheld in April by a
court in Leipzig.  “It’s below where I was thinking,” said Gerald Khoo, an
analyst at Espirito Santo in London with a “neutral” rating on
Lufthansa. “There were odds and ends going on in the quarter
specific to Lufthansa, such as Frankfurt’s night-flight ban. A
few extra million in the mix makes it look that bit worse.”  Lufthansa completed the sale of BMI to British Airways
parent  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  on April 20,
while Austrian Airlines said yesterday it would transfer flight
operations to regional arm Tyrolean Airways to help stem losses.  Competitor IAG’s Iberia unit plans to slash total pilot pay
by 62 million euros as it seeks to improve productivity by 25
percent and match BA. European No. 1  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  is
also seeking more than 2 billion euros in annual savings.  Lufthansa  shares  had gained 7.8 percent this year as of the
close in Frankfurt, valuing the company at 4.54 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  