-- UN Observers on Mission-to-Fail in Syria Lag on Staffing
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2012-05-02T11:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/un-observers-on-mission-to-fail-in-syria-lag-on-staffing.html
The  United Nations  has recruited only
half the 300 military observers it needs to staff its unarmed
monitoring force in Syria, a cease-fire mission that one
Security Council diplomat said is designed to fail.  The UN is making repeated calls to  member states  seeking
personnel as it tries to deploy the full force by the end of
May, said Herve Ladsous, Under-Secretary-General for
Peacekeeping Operations. The 24 monitors now deployed are tailed
by Syrian police as they try to assess the cease-fire, which
Ladsous said both sides are breaking.  The deployment is hindered by the acknowledgment of U.S.
and other Security Council diplomats that the mission is likely
to fail and that its purpose is to convince  Russia  and China
that stronger measures, which they previously blocked, are
needed to force President Bashar al-Assad to stop killing his
opponents and civilians. The U.S. will not support extending the
mission beyond an initial 90 days if Assad isn’t meeting his
obligations, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations  Susan Rice 
said last month.  “The point of the mission is not for what the observers
will see or do, but instead for what it will allow you to do in
the coming months,” said  Jon Alterman , director of the Middle
East program at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies, a policy group in Washington.  Planning For Failure  If the deployment fails, Russia and China will have some
responsibility to accept stronger measures -- including tighter
sanctions and an arms embargo -- sought by the U.S., U.K.,
 France  and Arab nations, said a  Security Council  diplomat, who
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. The diplomat said that
could mean action under Chapter 7 of the  UN Charter , which
empowers the Security Council to impose sanctions or authorize
military means to enforce its will.  This week’s attacks on the Syrian central bank in Damascus
and three blasts in the northern city of Idlib represent
attempts by backers of regime change to undermine UN envoy  Kofi Annan ’s peace plan, Russia’s Foreign Ministry said in a
statement on its website today, condemning the “terror”
assaults.  Syrian rebels killed 15 soldiers in an ambush near Aleppo,
Al Arabiya television reported today, while  Al Jazeera  said
Assad’s security forces killed five people. The military is
targeting three Damascus suburbs with heavy machine guns and
missiles, the Local Coordination Committees of  Syria  said today
on its website.  ‘We Need More’  The UN monitors are meant to calm the fighting so that
talks can begin on implementing Annan’s six-point plan.  “If this Kofi Annan plan fails, if this monitoring mission
fails, we’re going to be back in the UN Security Council, we’re
going to be looking at Chapter 7,” U.S. State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said last week.  With 24 monitors in place, they are able to visit only a
few sites each day, Ladsous said. “We need more from member
states,” he told journalists at a briefing in  New York .  Most Council ambassadors are unhappy with the time needed
to get the force in place, said another Security Council
diplomat. At least 362 people were killed in fighting between
April 16, when the first monitors arrived, and April 27, Eric
Austin, a spokesman for  Amnesty International , said in a
telephone interview.  ‘No Protection’  “A lot of countries don’t want to send their people into a
place where there is no protection for them, and to be used
rather badly by the Syrian government,” William Durch, director
of the  Future of Peace Operations Program  at the Stimson Center,
a research group in  Washington .  “Their mission is to guard a cease-fire and there isn’t
one,” he said. “It can’t work.”  Each soldier or civilian assigned by a UN member state to a
mission needs permission from his or her home country, a
bureaucratic process that can take weeks, even before training
begins, said Andre-Michel Essoungou, a spokesman for the UN’s
Department of Peacekeeping Operations. Among Security Council
members, only China and Russia have supplied personnel.  The monitoring mission’s commander, Norwegian Major General
Robert Mood, is in Syria and due to report back to the Security
Council later this month. Syria has refused to grant visas to
three proposed observers despite a clear statement last month by
UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon that Syria would not have such
a veto. Syria also blocked the UN from using helicopters, and
talks on a legal foundation for the mission remain incomplete,
Ladsous said.  Heavy Weapons  “Any block to that freedom of movement is reason to re-
evaluate the mission,” said Bill Flavin, a former U.S. special
forces officer who now studies peacekeeping at the U.S. Army War
College in Carlisle,  Pennsylvania .  The Syrian government and rebel groups agreed last month to
a cease-fire, and Assad promised to withdraw heavy weapons and
troops from populated areas. That hasn’t happened, Ladsous said
yesterday.  If violence continues, “what the UN usually does is say we
are going to withdraw the observers and go back to the Security
Council saying the whole game is off,” Flavin said.  Even when the monitoring mission is fully staffed, the UN
will still need to bring tremendous pressure on Assad, said
William Nash, a retired U.S. Army major general who led U.S.
peacekeepers in Bosnia in 1995-96.  “Somebody needs to talk real dirty to Assad and say
there’s no evidence that we are gonna quit,” said Nash. “But
to do that, Russia and  China  need to see that we made a good
faith commitment to make it work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  