-- Murder at Bastille Climaxes Tale of Vengeance: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-05-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/murder-at-bastille-climaxes-tale-of-vengeance-review.html
They look like penguins in the
Antarctic. In fact, they are the black-clad inhabitants of a
sun-bleached, almost abstract Sicilian village.  Mascagni’s “Cavalleria Rusticana” (1890) arrives in Paris
from the  Teatro Real ,  Madrid , in tandem with that other warhorse
of the verismo school, Leoncavallo’s “Pagliacci” (1892).  The coupling of the two short works, both dealing with a
crime of passion in the Mezzogiorno, is standard practice --
though not at the  Paris Opera . Up to now, “Cavalleria” was
deemed inferior and suitable only for the  Opera Comique .  In 1983, the last time “Pagliacci” was seen at the Palais
Garnier, it shared the stage with “Erzsebet,” which was based
on the story of a Hungarian serial killer and set to music by
French composer Charles Chaynes.  This is the first time “Cav” and “Pag” are produced
together at the Bastille Opera.  Giancarlo Del  Monaco , the director, is known for his
conservative taste. That doesn’t exclude original ideas, some
more convincing than others.  Although the evening starts with “Cavalleria,” the first
thing we hear is the prologue from “Pagliacci”: The lights go
on again, and from behind the audience emerges Tonio,
brilliantly sung by Sergey Murzaev, and tells us that we’re
about to see “uno squarcio di vita,” a slice of real life,
which is indeed true of both works.  Street Labyrinth  Set designer Johannes Leiacker’s decision to do without a
church was a less fortunate flash of inspiration: Why the
villagers appear and disappear in the amorphous labyrinth of
streets remains their secret.  Somebody also should have told the directorial team that
the opera takes place on Easter Sunday. The procession of
flagellants and cross-bearing penitents has the Christian
calendar wrong.  Among the singers, Violeta Urmana’s vibrant Santuzza stands
out. Although neither Turiddu (Marcello Giordani) nor his rival
Alfio (Franck Ferrari) possesses what you would call a beguiling
voice, they are both dramatically effective.  “Pagliacci” is better, both vocally and scenically.  Canio and his troupe arrive in a van whose rear-view mirror
is later put to good dramatic use: When he looks at himself in
his clown’s costume, he bursts into bitter laughter.  Dolce Vita  Three large posters of Anita Ekberg in Fellini’s film “La
Dolce Vita” suggest the main square of the Calabrian village.  My only objection to the staging is that the play-in-the-
play derails too soon and that much of the harlequinade takes
place amid the villagers, weakening the murderous climax.  “La commedia e finita,” the final line, is spoken by
Tonio, not by Canio as tradition has it.  Vladimir Galuzin’s Canio sounds more like the crazed
gambler in Tchaikovsky’s “The Queen of Spades” than an Italian
cuckold. Thankfully, he doesn’t overdo the sobbing.  The young Rumanian soprano Brigitta Kele is the discovery
of the evening. Her crystal clear Nedda is a joy.  Daniel Oren’s conducting is phlegmatic. For “Cavalleria,”
he takes as long as the composer’s own 1940 recording, easily
the slowest on the market.  Rating: ***.  The two operas are in repertory at the Bastille Opera
through May 11.  Information:  http://www.operadeparis.fr  or +33-1-7125-2423.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include: Farah Nayeri on London
weekend,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  technology , Scott Reyburn on art
 auctions .  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 