-- Murdoch’s Friends Offer Support After U.K. Condemnation
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-05-03T12:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/murdoch-s-friends-offer-support-after-u-k-condemnation.html
Rupert Murdoch’s executive friends
have come out in defense of the media magnate this week after a
U.K. parliamentary committee published a report saying he wasn’t
fit to run an international corporation.  Real estate developer  Donald Trump , billionaire  Barry Diller  and Jacob Rothschild, an investment banker who helped
Murdoch buy the now-defunct News of the World tabloid more than
40 years ago, are among executives who sent out statements
supporting the 81-year-old chief executive officer of  News Corp. (NWSA)   Murdoch and his son James were censured in a parliamentary
report May 1 over the way they handled a hacking and bribery
scandal at News Corp.’s U.K. newspapers. The Culture Media and
Sport Committee said Murdoch “turned a blind eye” to what was
going on at his businesses. The scandal has led the company to
shutter the News of the World, and police have arrested about 45
people as part of probes into hacking and bribery.  “We shouldn’t forget that he made a unique contribution to
media in this country,” said Rothschild, a British baron who
served on the board of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , the
U.K.’s biggest pay-television operator in which News Corp. owns
39 percent. “He created a new industry in this country, a pay-
television industry,” said Rothschild, the co-founder and
chairman of J Rothschild Capital Management. Murdoch also saved
the U.K. newspaper industry, he said.  The value of BSkyB has more than doubled since the
company’s IPO on Dec. 8, 1994. The shares have also outperformed
those of News Corp.  ‘Honorable Behavior’  Rothschild, who worked alongside  James Murdoch  at BSkyB,
described the younger Murdoch as hard-working and insightful
into emerging technologies. James Murdoch stepped down as the
chairman of BSkyB last month after saying the hacking scandal
was drawing unwanted scrutiny of his role.  The board of New York-based News Corp., which is controlled
and chaired by Murdoch, also came to the CEO’s support
yesterday, saying it has “full confidence” in his fitness to
run the company he built over six decades.  Diller, who worked for Murdoch as head of Fox Broadcasting
for eight years, defended his former boss in an interview,
calling him an “honorable” executive.  “One of the greatest assets that News Corp. has, and its
shareholders are lucky enough to own a piece of, is  Rupert
Murdoch ,” said Diller, who runs Match.com’s parent company
 IAC/InterActiveCorp. (IACI)  “So long as Rupert is the CEO, there is a
future for the company.”  Abandoned Deal  For real-estate developer Trump,  Murdoch is a “world
class CEO” and “certainly fit to run his corporation,”
according to his Twitter posts.  BSkyB gained 1.2 percent to 710 pence in London trading as
of 1:30 p.m. News Corp. yesterday rose 0.5 percent to $19.89 in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has gained
11 percent this year.  The phone hacking scandal prompted News Corp. to abandon a
7.8 billion pound ($12.6 billion) offer for the 61 percent of
BSkyB that it doesn’t own. U.K. regulator Ofcom is in talks with
the police and examining civil lawsuits from hacking victims to
ensure that the company is suited to control the remaining 39
percent. Appearing before Parliament in July, Murdoch said it
was the “most humble day” of his life.  In addition to the police probes and the parliamentary
committee, hacking at News of the World prompted Prime Minister
 David Cameron  to set up a judge-led inquiry into media ethics
that has also interviewed the Murdochs and may recommend new
rules for the British media.  “This culture, we consider, permeated from the top
throughout the organization and speaks volumes about the lack of
effective corporate governance at News Corp.,” the
parliamentary committee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  