-- Turkish Inflation to Hit 3 1/2-Year High on Energy, Survey Shows
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-05-02T14:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/turkish-inflation-to-hit-3-1-2-year-high-on-energy-survey-shows.html
Turkey’s  inflation rate  probably rose
to a three-and-a-half-year high last month on rising energy
costs, a survey of economists showed.  Inflation accelerated to 11 percent, the highest since
October 2008, from 10.4 percent the previous month, according to
the median estimate of seven economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
Estimates ranged from 10.6 percent to 11.3 percent. The figures
will be announced by the government statistics office in Ankara
at 10 a.m. tomorrow.  Increases in natural gas and electricity prices have
derailed central bank Governor Erdem Basci’s prediction that
inflation would start to decline in April. He now says it will
peak that month with a “significant” decline to follow in May.
Basci is seeking to support the lira and reduce  Turkey ’s
inflation rate and current account gap without endangering the
government’s target for economic growth.  “Achieving all of them at the same time is a very
difficult task,” Ibrahim Aksoy, an economist at Sekerbank TAS
in Istanbul, said in a report today. Tighter monetary policy
will probably be needed to defend the currency and bring
inflation toward the central bank’s 5 percent target, he said.  Basci, who varies borrowing costs daily within a so-called
rates corridor, has tightened policy in the past two months. The
measures helped preserve the lira’s gains this year. The
currency has rallied more than 7 percent, reversing an 18
percent slump in 2011. It traded at 1.7616 per dollar at 4 p.m.
in Istanbul.  ‘Tight Grip’  “The central bank will maintain a tight grip on liquidity
until inflation dynamics improve visibly,”  Tevfik Aksoy , chief
economist for the region at Morgan Stanley in  London , said in a
report today.  The central bank forecasts that inflation will slow to 6.5
percent this year and reach the 5 percent target by mid-2013,
according to a presentation the bank made to the Cabinet today
and then posted on its website.  The bank’s latest survey of inflation expectations among
economists and businesses, published on April 20, forecast a
rate of 6.96 percent in 12 months’ time.  Turkey’s economic boom of the past two years has swelled
the country’s  current-account deficit  as well as spurring
inflation. While the gap has been narrowing since October, it’s
still the biggest among  emerging markets  at about 10 percent of
economic output. Basci aims to narrow the deficit by reducing
the credit growth that is helping fuel demand for imports.  Rebalancing the economy will be difficult because of
“less-buoyant external demand and worsening terms of trade,”
 Standard & Poor’s  said on May 1, cutting its outlook for
Turkey’s credit rating to stable from positive.  The government is targeting economic growth of 4 percent
this year, less than half last year’s pace. S&P and the
 International Monetary Fund  forecast a sharper slowdown to
between 2 and 2.5 percent. The IMF also predicts that Turkey
will fail to rein in inflation this year, with a year-end
forecast of 10.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  