-- Value-Added Tax Would Raise Tons for U.S. Coffers
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2012-05-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/value-added-tax-would-raise-tons-for-u-s-coffers.html
With the exception of the U.S., every
country in the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development  has a value-added tax -- one on business sales that
functions much like a retail sales tax. It’s time for the U.S.
to join that club.  The appeal of these taxes is that they have a broad base,
and they don’t discourage investment. They can raise a lot of
money without causing nearly as much economic damage as income
taxes. They are also much harder to evade than sales taxes.  Here’s how they work: Businesses pay tax on their sales,
less the cost of goods and services they bought. Working up the
supply chain, the value-added tax is ultimately charged exactly
once on the final price of goods and services sold to consumers.
If you buy a sweater for $50 and the VAT is 10 percent, the
price includes $5 of tax. Unlike a retail sales tax, payments
are made by all the companies that added value along the way.  Unfortunately, the  VAT  hasn’t been a central feature of
most tax-reform discussions. Bipartisan plans such as the one
proposed by the commission led by  Alan Simpson  and  Erskine
Bowles  focused on expanding the personal income tax base while
cutting rates, so that more revenue could be collected without
hurting the economy. The calculation seemed to be that Americans
were unlikely to accept an entirely new tax, so we should focus
on making the income tax better.  The problem with this theory is that Americans are also
unlikely to accept the changes needed to make the income tax
much more efficient, such as abolishing the deductions for
 mortgage interest  and health-care expenses.  No Good Alternative  The tax plans of Paul Ryan and  Mitt Romney  have lots of
specifics on cutting rates -- and no detail on how the base
would be expanded. The difficult parts are to be filled in
later. President  Barack Obama  won’t endorse a broad plan to
expand the tax base, focusing on increases on the top 2 percent
of earners, many of them small and symbolic. A version of the
Simpson-Bowles budget went down in flames in the  House of
Representatives , attracting fewer than 40 votes.  With little appetite for any plan that really expands the
income-tax base, it is time to reconsider a VAT. It would be
both substantively better and more politically palatable.  Here’s why:  A value-added tax raises a ton of money. The base (the
total amount of goods that would be subject to tax) would range
from one-third to one-half of gross domestic product. U.S. tax
revenue, meanwhile, is running well below the long-term trend --
by about 3 percent of GDP. A 10 percent VAT with a relatively
broad base could raise $750 billion a year, enough to pay for
about a fifth of the  federal budget . This would make room for
cuts in other taxes.  A VAT is much less visible than an income tax --individuals
don’t have to file an annual return for it -- so a tax that is
paired with income-tax cuts might be surprisingly palatable,
especially if it is phased in.  The VAT offers an opportunity to expand the tax base.
Politically, it may not be feasible to abolish the most
expensive and popular income-tax deductions, such as those for
mortgage interest and health care. But the VAT starts fresh with
a new base. Taxing  home construction  (as many countries, such as
 Canada , do) would help offset the distortion of the mortgage
deduction. Ideally, this should even apply to health-care
services.  A tax only on consumption does not tax returns on capital.
While most of the base-broadening proposals in plans such as
Simpson-Bowles are sound, one recommendation is pernicious: to
tax  capital gains  and dividends at the same rate as ordinary
income. Rather than making the  tax code  more neutral, the change
would actually make the double taxation of equity investments
more distorting. The VAT offers a way to expand tax collections
without going after capital.  Increases Aren’t Inevitable  The rates need not spiral upward. In European Union
countries, rates are in the teens or 20s, because EU rules force
all members to levy a VAT of at least 15 percent. The U.S. does
not have to follow suit. Non-European VATs have tended to stay
at reasonable levels. The  Australian  value-added tax is 10
percent, and  Japan ’s is 5 percent. Canada introduced a 7 percent
VAT in 1991; the rate has since been cut  twice  and stands at 5
percent.  With these advantages, it’s discouraging that the value-
added tax seems to be off the table in  Washington . At least one
powerful fiscal leader was, until recently, an advocate. Earlier
versions of  Paul Ryan ’s  “Roadmap for America’s Future” 
included an 8.5 percent VAT, rebadged as a “business
consumption tax.”  Representative Ryan recognized that these taxes are an
efficient way to finance government and can make room for pro-
growth improvements elsewhere in the tax code. If he and other
fiscal hawks start singing that tune again, Americans might get
the more efficient tax code they deserve.  (Josh Barro is a contributor to Forbes.com and a fiscal-
policy analyst based in  New York . The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on what’s missing from the
 U.S.-Afghanistan pact  and better ways to  fix the farm bill ;  Ezra
Klein  on how  the U.S. isn’t like Greece ;  Amity Shlaes  on why  we
should all back the gold standard ;  Caroline Baum  on  alternatives
to austerity ; Ray Ball on  pitfalls of mark-to-market accounting .  To contact the writer of this article:
Josh Barro at  jbarro@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 