-- Vestas Loss Wider on Bigger Provision for Faulty Turbines
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-05-02T16:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/vestas-posts-lower-than-forecast-sales-in-first-quarter.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the biggest
wind-turbine maker, fell to a nine-year low in Copenhagen
trading after saying the first-quarter loss almost doubled and
it expects to spend more to repair faults in 376 machines.  The shares  declined  5.6 percent to 48.15 kroner in
Copenhagen trading, the lowest close since May 2003. They
earlier sank as much as 13 percent, the most since Feb. 8.  Vestas is seeking to return to profit after reporting its
first loss since 2005 last year. In January, it started a
program to cut 10 percent of the workforce and save 150 million
euros ($197 million) a year. The company needs “significant
tightening,” said Dag Gunnar Andresen, who takes over as
finance chief in August.  “We are disappointed by the scale of weakness in the first
quarter,” Rupesh Madlani, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in
 London , said in a note to investors. “We are also disappointed
by the lack of more aggressive cost-cutting of its fixed-cost
base, to improve full-year profitability, and we expect this to
be a focus for the incoming CFO in the summer.”  The net loss worsened to 162 million euros in the quarter
from 85 million euros a year earlier, Aarhus, Denmark-based
Vestas said in a statement. That trailed the 56.8 million-euro
average loss predicted in a survey of eight analysts. The margin
on earnings before interest and tax widened to minus 22.2
percent compared with minus 6.5 percent.  Job Cuts  “There’s no doubt the first quarter was disappointing,”
Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  said in a phone interview.
“There are three main reasons: too-high turbine costs,
unexpected additional warranty provisions, and obviously we had
anticipated more would be handed over to the clients in the
first quarter. If that doesn’t happen, we cannot book any
revenue.”  Vestas said on Jan. 12 it would cut 2,335 jobs, with 1,600
more at risk in the U.S. because of an expiring tax credit to
the industry. Fewer than 150 jobs were cut in the first quarter,
according to today’s statement. The head count was 22,576 on
March 31 and a decision on the American jobs will be taken in
the third quarter, it said.  Vestas “still expects the number of employees at year-end
to be around 20,400,” the company said.  The manufacturer last week named Andresen, a former CFO of
Vattenfall AB, to take up the post vacated by Henrik Norremark
in February just before the company posted a 166 million-euro
loss for 2011.  Sales, Shipments Rise  While profits and margins declined, sales rose to 1.1
billion euros in the first quarter from 1.06 billion euros and
Vestas logged 1,269 megawatts of orders, boosting its order
backlog to a record 10 billion euros at the end of March.
Shipments advanced 47 percent to 931 megawatts.  Vestas said it was earmarking an additional 40 million
euros to pay for extra maintenance, repair or replacement of
malfunctioning bearings in the gearboxes of 376 of its V90
turbines, including 36 offshore machines. The gearboxes were
supplied by ZF Wind Power Antwerpen NV, it said. Engel declined
to say who made the bearings.  “We will pursue all available avenues with regard to
compensation for this,” Engel said. The company said it will
make warranty provisions of about 3 percent of revenue this year
compared with previous guidance of less than 3 percent.  “The scope for an additional  capital raise  cannot be
discounted through the year as future customers question the
longer warranty commitments made by the company,” Barclays’s
Madlani said.  Takeover Speculation  The company issued profit warnings in October and January,
citing production delays at a generator factory and higher-than-
expected costs developing its V112 turbine.  “Our new technology is at this moment too expensive, and
we know that,” Engel said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move” show. Engel also said Vestas is
reducing the pace of development of its planned 7-megawatt V164
offshore turbine because of “uncertainty” in the market. The
company has talked with potential partners to make the turbine,
he said, declining to name them.  Vestas maintained full-year guidance for an Ebit margin of
zero to 4 percent, revenue of 6.5 billion euros to 8 billion
euros and about 7 gigawatts of shipments.  The company faced takeover speculation last month after the
Danish newspaper Jyllands-Posten said Chinese turbine makers
 Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558)  and  Xinjiang Goldwind Science &
Technology Co. (2208)  had spoken with Danish corporate finance bankers
about possible bids. Engel declined to comment when asked if
Vestas had received any offers.  “The wind-industry fundamentals are extremely tough and
look likely to remain so until significant consolidation takes
place,” Arnaud Brossard, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in
Paris, said today in a note to investors. He maintained his
underperform rating on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  