-- Virgin Media, BSkyB Must Block File Sharing Site, Court Rules
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-05-02T11:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/virgin-media-bskyb-must-block-file-sharing-site-court-rules.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
 Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  and three other U.K. Internet-service
providers must block a Swedish file-sharing site after a judge
said they were aware The Pirate Bay was used to infringe
copyrights.  Judge Richard Arnold in  London  said in a ruling today that
expanded on an injunction issued on April 27 that the ISPs
“have actual knowledge” that the Pirate Bay site is used for
illegal purposes.  The ruling, a victory for nine music companies including
 Sony Corp. (6758) ’s British unit, follows a Feb. 20 judgment where
Arnold ruled that The Pirate Bay violated the record labels’
copyrights.  “The  High Court  has confirmed that The Pirate Bay
infringes copyright on a massive scale,” Geoff Taylor, the
chief executive officer of the British Recorded Music Industry
group BPI, said in an e-mailed statement. “Its operators line
their pockets by commercially exploiting music and other
creative works without paying a penny to the people who created
them.”  The Pirate Bay allows downloading of digitized music and
films with software called BitTorrent that enables complete
works to be assembled from pieces on other users’ computers. The
site has faced civil and criminal proceedings in other
countries, including in  Sweden . Arnold said in February that the
website was openly opposed to the record labels’ copyrights.  “You can always count on that our enemies, will do the
right thing, after they’ve tried everything else,” The Pirate
Bay said in an e-mailed statement.  A spokesman for BSkyB said the company plans to block the
site in the near future. Virgin Media didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment.  The case is Dramatico Entertainment v. British Sky
Broadcasting, High Court of Justice Chancery Division,
HC11C04518.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  