-- Visa Drops on U.S. Antitrust Probe of Debit Strategy
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-05-03T20:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/visa-profit-climbs-47-as-consumers-boost-credit-card-spending.html
Visa Inc. (V)   shares slid  4.7 percent, the
most since August, after the world’s biggest electronic-payments
network disclosed a U.S. antitrust probe into its pricing for
debit-card transactions.  The U.S.  Justice Department ’s antitrust division asked the
San Francisco-based company for information about its debit
strategy on March 13, Chief Executive Officer Joseph W. Saunders
said yesterday.  “In a bad-case outcome, Visa may need to alter elements of
its strategy,” wrote Tien-tsin Huang, a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analyst, in a note to clients. “The issue may take nine to 24
months to resolve.” The probe puts only 2 percent of revenue at
risk, said Huang, who kept his “overweight” recommendation on
the stock and raised his earnings forecast.  Saunders, 66, adjusted the network’s fee structure to
defend Visa’s leading market share after U.S. rules on debit-
card processing took effect in October.  “We are confident our actions are appropriate and that our
response to the DOJ supports that,” Saunders said yesterday in
a conference call after Visa posted a 47 percent jump in fiscal
second-quarter profit. The firm received four other requests for
information from the Justice Department since 2007, and “all
have been resolved,” he said.  Visa declined $5.78 to $116.41 in  New York . The shares have
advanced 15 percent this year.  Net income for the three months ended March 31 climbed to
$1.29 billion, or $1.91 a share, from $881 million, or $1.23, a
year earlier, Visa said in a statement. Adjusted earnings per
share, which excluded an accounting gain, were $1.60, beating
the $1.51  average estimate  of 32 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  U.S. Credit  “Our strong financial performance this quarter was fueled
by continued growth of U.S. credit products, strong cross-border
spending and expansion of Visa’s core business in international
markets,” Saunders said in the statement.  Visa increased its 2012 profit forecast, saying it expects
annual earnings-per-share growth in the “high teens to low
twenties,” up from the “high teens.”  Operating revenue rose 15 percent to $2.58 billion, Visa
said in the statement. The results were boosted by the $208
million accounting gain tied to deferred-tax liabilities, the
company said. Pretax income climbed 17 percent to $1.61 billion.  Visa and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the No. 2 network, are boosting
profits amid a shift by consumers worldwide from cash and checks
to electronic payments. MasterCard said yesterday that first-
quarter profit increased 21 percent to $682 million, beating
Wall Street estimates, as spending rose and the firm gained
market share.  Dodd-Frank Act  The limits on debit-card transaction fees and processing,
mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, may have helped Purchase, New
York-based MasterCard wrest market share from Visa, which
handled more than triple the amount of such purchases than its
smaller rival in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30.  MasterCard has been winning deals to handle processing of
debit transactions, bolstering financial results, Chief
Financial Officer Martina Hund-Mejean said in a conference call
with analysts.  “In every quarter we’re going after business very
surgically and opportunistically,” she said. “You can see
those results in our numbers.”  One lender that switched to MasterCard is  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America Corp., the biggest U.S. debit-
card issuer by purchases, Huang said in a May 1 research note.  Merchant Incentives  Visa changed its debit-card fees in April, creating
incentives for merchants to route more transactions on the
company’s network. The fees, which had been variable, were
broken into three components, including a fixed fee and an
incentive portion that gives credit to merchants for using the
network more, CFO Byron Pollitt said in a March 13 presentation.  Visa’s share of worldwide purchase transactions on both
credit and debit cards, including those processed by Visa Europe
Ltd., fell 1.1 percentage points last year to 64.67 percent as
MasterCard’s share expanded by almost half of a percentage point
to 25.57 percent, according to the Nilson Report, an industry
newsletter based in Carpinteria,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  