-- Warner Chilcott Luring Drug Buyers With Most Free Cash: Real M&A
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-05-02T05:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/warner-chilcott-luring-drug-buyers-with-most-free-cash-real-m-a.html
Warner Chilcott Plc (WCRX)  offers potential
acquirers the chance to buy a company that throws off more cash
from selling contraceptives and colitis treatments than any
specialty drugmaker in the world.  Shares of the Dublin-based company surged to a  nine-month
high  this week after Warner Chilcott said it’s exploring options
and holding talks with possible buyers. The $5.5 billion
company, which gained 27 percent since takeover speculation
emerged less than a week ago, still has a free cash flow yield
that’s 20 percent of its share price, about 10 times more than
the median for comparable drugmakers with at least $1 billion in
market value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While  analysts  are predicting  Warner Chilcott ’s sales will
decline this year as it faces competition from generic copies of
its drugs, Invesco Ltd. and  RBC Capital Markets  said the company
could fetch at least $27 a share in a takeover, a 23 percent
premium to yesterday’s price. A larger drug company could
benefit by expanding sales of Warner Chilcott’s top brands such
as Asacol, which treats intestinal inflammation, and cutting
costs to boost profits, Invesco said.  “It’s still an incredibly cheap stock,” Derek Taner, who
manages the $1.1 billion Invesco Global Health Care Fund, which
owns Warner Chilcott shares, said in a telephone interview from
 San Francisco . “They generate a lot of free cash flow. The
appeal of them to a strategic buyer would be the cost savings
opportunities and the accretion that it would provide.”  Rochelle Fuhrmann, a spokeswoman for Warner Chilcott,
didn’t return phone and e-mail messages yesterday seeking
comment about potential acquirers.  Women’s Health  Warner Chilcott, which traces its roots to  Northern Ireland 
in 1968, makes medicines focused on gastroenterology,
dermatology, urology and women’s health, including Actonel for
osteoporosis and the contraceptive Loestrin.  The company was acquired in 2005 by a group of firms
including Thomas H. Lee Partners LP, Bain Capital LLC and the
buyout units of Credit Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The firms then took Warner Chilcott public again less than two
years later. Credit Suisse sold its stake in 2010, and after a
secondary share sale in March 2011 the remaining buyout firms
together owned about 30 percent of the stock, Warner Chilcott
said in a regulatory filing in February.  Warner Chilcott had its first annual decline in  revenue 
since going public last year after its Actonel osteoporosis drug
lost patent protection in western Europe and faced competition
from generic versions of rivals’ products in the U.S.  Takeover Speculation  Shares of Warner Chilcott topped $25 last May before
falling more than 30 percent through April 26, the day before
the Times of  London  said  Bayer AG (BAYN)  may offer to acquire the
company for $32 a share. The newspaper didn’t say where it got
the information.  Warner Chilcott, which jumped 8 percent on the news, then
surged by the most in more than two years on April 30 after the
company said it was working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on
ways to increase shareholder returns. Discussions with potential
bidders “may or may not lead to an offer for the company,”
Warner Chilcott said in the statement.  Earlier that day, Bloomberg News reported people with
knowledge of the matter saying that Warner Chilcott had received
interest from potential buyers including private-equity firms.
The company is also considering paying a dividend as an
alternative to a sale, one person familiar with the plans said.  The company’s shares closed yesterday at $22.02.  Warner Chilcott may appeal to a buyer because of its
ability to generate cash, Invesco’s Taner said.  Cash Cow  After deducting capital expenses, the company reported cash
from its operations in the past year equal to about 20 percent
of its stock price, the most of any specialty drug company
valued at $1 billion or more, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  For Bayer, buying Warner Chilcott could help the German
drugmaker bolster its own women’s health line, said  Alistair Campbell , a Bayer analyst at Berenberg Bank in London. Adding
Loestrin could help shore up sales for Bayer at a time when its
Yaz birth-control faces competition from a generic version
introduced by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. in May 2010.  Warner Chilcott could also help Bayer strengthen its
presence in the U.S. market, Campbell said.  “Bayer, relative to some of its peers, has a smaller
footprint in the U.S. and buying a business with a larger U.S.
footprint could help that,” Campbell said in a phone interview.  Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer’s  North American revenue 
was 22 percent of overall sales in 2011, down from almost 25
percent two years earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. By contrast, London-based rival  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) 
derived about 30 percent of its sales from the U.S. last year,
the data show.  Generic Competition  Rosemarie Yancosek, a Bayer spokeswoman, declined to
comment on whether Bayer is interested in buying Warner
Chilcott. Organic growth is the company’s “key priority” even
though rumors about transactions “pop up regularly,” Bayer’s
Chief Executive Officer Marijn Dekkers said on April 26.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , which last week said it is in talks with
other companies about possible deals as it faces increasing
generic competition, could also be a suitor for Warner Chilcott,
said Michael Meyers, CEO of New York-based hedge fund Arcoda
Capital Management LP.  The London-based maker of Seroquel and Nexium for ulcers is
set to lose patent protection by 2014 on drugs representing more
than 40 percent of last year’s sales, and analysts are already
projecting AstraZeneca will suffer a 32 percent drop in profit
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Beefing Up  “They’re in a position where they need to replace existing
products and continue to beef up the pharma side of the
business,” Meyers said in a phone interview.  Tom Hushen, a spokesman for AstraZeneca, declined to
comment on whether the company is looking into a purchase of
Warner Chilcott.  Warner Chilcott’s declining revenue could make it harder to
attract a buyer, said  Randall Stanicky , a New York-based analyst
at Canaccord Genuity Corp. Analysts project sales will fall 15
percent in the three years ended 2014 as patents expire for
two of the company’s top sellers, Actonel and Loestrin 24 FE,
according to data comiled by Bloomberg.  “You don’t have the growth here,” Stanicky said.
“Outside of Asacol, there’s concern across most of the other
products relative to the sustainability of those cash flows.”  The company this week lost a federal ruling in a patent-
infringement suit over a generic version of its antibiotic
Doryx, used to treat severe acne.  Doesn’t Take Much  Warner Chilcott said the ruling, which lifted an order
barring sales of the generic by Mylan Inc., will result in an
impairment charge of $90 million to $108 million that will
“materially reduce” the company’s net income for 2012.  The sales decline may not deter a  drug company  that could
combine operations with Warner Chilcott and lower expenses to
boost earnings, said Meyers at Arcoda.  The company’s low valuation may also attract bidders, said
Invesco’s Taner, with offers of $27 a share or more.  A $27 per-share acquisition price would only value Warner
Chilcott’s  equity and net debt  at about 7.2 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the
last 12 months. That would be the second cheapest on record
among pharmaceutical takeovers greater than $5 billion, and a 40
percent discount to the industry median, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “It’s an inexpensive stock, so it doesn’t take a lot of
work to make a purchase accretive to a buyer,” Taner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in  New York  at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 