-- Westpac Profit Rises After Lending Growth Outpaces Costs
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-05-02T23:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/westpac-first-half-profit-rises-as-lending-growth-outpaces-costs.html
Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  Australia ’s
second-biggest bank, said first-half profit rose as lending
growth outpaced an increase in expenses.  Cash  earnings  in the six months ended March 31 gained 1
percent to A$3.20 billion ($3.3 billion) from A$3.17 billion a
year earlier, the Sydney-based bank said in a statement today.
Net income, which matched analysts’ estimates, fell 25 percent
to A$2.97 billion as the prior period was boosted by tax
benefits from buying St George Bank.  Europe ’s debt crisis has made it more expensive for
Australia’s biggest banks to raise funds overseas, squeezing
margins as demand for credit and house sales dwindle. Westpac,
led by Chief Executive Officer Gail Kelly, today forecast modest
increases in lending and “intense” competition for customer
deposits, putting further pressure on profitability.  “Businesses and consumers remain cautious,” the bank said
in today’s statement. “Funding costs are expected to remain
elevated.”  Westpac  shares  have gained 13 percent this year, outpacing
the 9.4 percent increase for the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  Narrower Margin  Lending increased 5 percent in the six-month period, more
than the 4 percent growth in expenses, Westpac said. The bank’s
net interest margin, a measure of lending profitability, fell 4
basis points to 2.17 percent from the year-earlier period,
mostly because of higher  interest rates  paid to depositors.  “Margins will continue to be impacted” by higher funding
costs in the second half, Westpac said in a presentation to
investors.  Even with the smaller margins, Westpac’s net interest
income advanced 6 percent as loans and deposits swelled. Non-
interest income rose 6 percent on higher trading earnings.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , Australia’s
third-largest bank, yesterday reported a larger-than-expected
decline in lending profitability in the six months ended March
31 as it paid more for deposits and overseas funds. Foreign
income drove a 10 percent increase in earnings, while in
Australia, there is “persistently lower demand for credit,”
CEO  Michael Smith  said.  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , the fourth-largest bank in
the country, on Monday reported a 16 percent decline in net
income in the six months ended March 31 as it booked charges to
shrink its U.K. business. The bank will report details of its
earnings, including lending margins, on May 10.  Housing Slows  Sales of new homes in Australia fell in March to a record
low, according to the Canberra-based Housing Industry
Association.  House prices  declined in the three months through
March, extending the longest losing streak in at least a decade,
the  Australian Bureau of Statistics  said this week.  Australia’s central bank on May 1 cut benchmark borrowing
costs by a larger-than-expected 50 basis points to spur economic
growth, saying Europe’s debt crisis may shock the market for
some time.  The crisis is pushing up fundraising costs for Australia’s
banks, even as the  Reserve Bank of Australia  cut benchmark
borrowing costs. The divergence is forcing lenders to withhold
some of the central bank’s rate reductions to protect lending
margins.  National Australia Bank yesterday kept more than a third of
the RBA cut, trimming its variable mortgage rate by 32 basis
points.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  said today it will cut
its variable mortgage rate by 40 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  