-- Why Obama Can’t Be Swift-Boated
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-05-02T00:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/why-obama-can-t-be-swift-boated.html
     May 2 (Bloomberg) -- The first weeks of the general
election campaign have seen Republicans go after two of
President  Barack Obama ’s strongest points: his personality and
his national security credentials.  On the first,  Karl Rove ’s group, American Crossroads, has
posted a video online called “ Cool ,” which puts together clips
of Obama wearing 3-D glasses, dancing on “Ellen,” singing Al
Green, drinking a beer, catching a fly buzzing around during an
on-camera interview, and slow-jamming the news with  Jimmy Fallon . Up to that point, you’re thinking what a good sport the
president is -- and a good dancer to boot. Then a question
appears on-screen: “After 4 years of a celebrity president, is
your life any better?”  You know how that ad ends. The second line of attack on
Obama is that the Osama bin Laden raid was no big deal, and even
mentioning it is akin to spiking the football, like George W. Bush crowing “ Mission Accomplished ” when the mission was
unaccomplished.  There’s a problem at the heart of this strategy: Obama --
against the advice of two trusted advisers, Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates  and Vice President  Joe Biden  -- actually called for
the kill. Romney did not, and might not have, given his views.  In 2007 Romney  said  it was “not worth moving heaven and
earth and spending billions of dollars just trying to catch one
person.” Romney criticized Obama for pledging in 2008 to go into
 Pakistan  to get bin Laden if necessary, saying he would do no
such thing. On Monday Romney said the decision to go after bin
Laden was so simple that “ even Jimmy Carter  would have given
that order.” Then on Tuesday he  tweeted , “I applaud President
Obama for approving the mission.”  Romney’s views may be famously malleable, but if there’s
one thing consistent about him, it’s his boardroom approach to
management. If his Defense secretary and vice president urged a
more cautious course, he probably would have taken it.  The two issues fused Saturday night, when Obama took the
stage at the White House Correspondents’ Dinner for the annual
inside-Washington comedy night and was expected to make light of
life and himself. “Last year at this time, in fact on this very
weekend, we finally delivered justice to one of the world’s most
notorious individuals,”  Obama began . It was the anniversary of
the killing of bin Laden, but Obama was referring to someone
else: As the president broke into a high-wattage smile, the
image of a bloated, orange-skinned, pouffed-hair  Donald Trump 
appeared on-screen in the Hilton ballroom.  Later in the evening Obama addressed whether he was too
cool for school, noting that Romney’s campaign had “criticized
me for slow-jamming the news with Jimmy Fallon. In fact, I
understand Governor Romney was so incensed he asked his staff if
he could get some equal time on ’The Merv Griffin Show.’”  It’s not inconceivable that a worthy opponent could spin a
positive into a negative and vice versa: that is, give Romney a
personality and denigrate Obama’s. After all, in 2004
Republicans did the near impossible, turning Senator  John Kerry ’s military service into a minus. The Swift-Boaters found a
disgruntled veteran to question whether Kerry deserved his three
Purple Hearts and  Silver Star  for valor in  Vietnam . By the time
a book called “Unfit for Command” was published in August 2004,
Bush’s spotty service in the National Guard protecting Texas
against  Oklahoma  didn’t look so bad.  Don’t be surprised when some Navy SEAL turns up on  a
website  near you to give a stinging rebuke to Obama. Already,  a
columnist  in Britain’s Daily Mail, Toby Harnden, is selectively
quoting former and current Navy SEALs who largely praise the
president but say, in effect, that any president would have made
a similar call. The column quotes a former SEAL, Brandon Webb,
as saying that the Obama administration should not be releasing
any information that concerns the highly classified SEAL Team
Six, which Harnden writes is being “paraded around a global
audience like a show dog.”  But it might not work. Obama’s belief system -- in that
hopey-changey business and the post-partisanship thing -- has
been altered by reality. He doesn’t seem as inclined to turn the
other cheek, as he did in the debate about the debt ceiling.  Bring it on, as Bush would say. In  an ad  for the Obama
campaign,  Bill Clinton  makes the strongest case for the
“decider-in-chief,” who would be dog meat if the mission had
failed. “Suppose the Navy SEALs had gone in there, and it hadn’t
been bin Laden. Suppose they’d been captured or killed. The
downside would have been horrible for him.”  Kerry may have been Swift-Boated, but Obama is not going to
be SEALed. Republicans are used to calling Democrats cowards and
worse. Not this time. Republicans have the squishy, soft,
cosseted, consensus-building candidate, while Democrats have the
fighter. Finally.  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the upside of  Greek
dysfunction  and the  U.S. Senate ’s attempt to  reform the Postal
Service ; William Pesek on  China’s slowing growth ;  Peter Orszag 
on  flawed economic forecasting ; and Clive Crook on the  dogma of
inequality .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Margaret Carlson  at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 