-- Wien Bearish on Oil for First Time as Production Swells
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   R a j   R a j e n d r a n
-- 2012-05-02T12:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/wien-bearish-on-oil-for-first-time-as-production-swells.html
Byron Wien , the 79 year-old chairman
of Blackstone Group LP’s advisory services unit, is forecasting
an annual drop in  oil prices  for the first time in his career as
 swelling production  pushes global inventories higher.  Wien, who joined the world’s biggest private-equity firm in
2009, said the U.S. will extract more crude by fracking rocks
and expects the furor over a potential conflict with Iran to
dissipate. Brent crude lost 2.8 percent last month after surging
14 percent in the first quarter on concern Iran may disrupt
 Middle East  exports in retaliation for a European oil embargo.  Russia  and Saudi Arabia, the biggest crude producers, are
pumping near record levels, helping push February  inventories  in
developed nations to the equivalent of 59.6 days of demand, the
most since 2009, according to the  International Energy Agency .  “The Iran premium is going to come out of the price of
Brent,” Wien, who was previously a chief strategist at Morgan
Stanley, said in an April 26 television interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “There’s an Iran premium in the
price of oil, thinking that Israel will strike Iran, and I don’t
think Israel will.”  Brent, the benchmark for more than half of the world’s oil,
closed at $119.66 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange yesterday and fell to $119.11 today. The Centre
for Global Energy Studies expects a jump in worldwide stockpiles
this quarter to the most since the Asian financial crisis 14
years ago, when crude plunged below $10 a barrel.  Not Since 1998  “A rebound in production is causing stocks to grow quite
rapidly,” said  Leo Drollas , chief economist at London-based
CGES, a researcher founded by former Saudi Arabian Oil Minister
Sheikh Ahmad Zaki Yamani. “Even more disturbing is that the
build in the second quarter is going to be massive. We haven’t
had something of that magnitude since 1998.”  While analysts aren’t predicting that Brent will tumble to
$10, oil risks falling to $100 for the first time since October
should the abundance of crude persist. Six out of 30 analysts
forecast the North Sea crude will average $100 or less this
quarter, predictions compiled by Bloomberg show. The median
estimate is $115.50.  There’s a “lack of appreciation” of how much oil will be
extracted from hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, of rock
formations in the U.S., particularly North Dakota, Wien said.
The state, home to the Bakken shale-rock fields, produced a
record 558,255 barrels a day in February, its Department of
Mineral Resources said.  Wien’s Forecasts  Wien has been making annual forecasts since 1986, when he
was chief U.S. investment strategist at Morgan Stanley. In
January 2011, he said oil would rise to $115. West Texas
Intermediate crude in  New York  peaked that year at $114.83 on
May 2, up from $91.55 on Jan. 3.  Speculation that international pressure on  Iran  to give up
an alleged nuclear weapons program would lead to conflict or a
supply disruption helped push the commodity to $128.40 a barrel
in March, the highest in more than 3 1/2 years. The U.S. has
tightened financial sanctions against Iran while the European
Union agreed to stop buying the country’s crude from July 1.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries pumped
31.4 million barrels a day last month, the  most  since 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, to calm soaring prices
even as output from Iran dropped. Regional crude prices are
falling. Qua Iboe, Nigeria’s most abundant blend, yesterday
slipped to its weakest premium versus the Dated Brent benchmark
in 18 months.  Iraq, Libya Surging Too  Aside from  Saudi Arabia , which holds most of OPEC’s spare
capacity, other members are also pumping more. Iraq boosted
exports to 2.51 million barrels a day last month, the most “in
decades,” Falah al-Amri, the head of the State Oil Marketing
Organization, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Libya 
hopes to surpass its pre-rebellion output of 1.6 million barrels
by June, Nuri Berruien, the head of state-run National Oil
Corp., said in an April 25 interview in his office in Tripoli.  “Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the  United Arab Emirates  can
easily make up for Iran losses,” said George Abed, director for
 Africa  and the Middle East at the Institute of International
Finance in  Washington , which predicts  Brent crude  will drop to
$105 a barrel next year.  OPEC Decisions  During the Asian crisis, the group agreed to raise output
at a November 1997 meeting in Jakarta. Crude subsequently
plunged 36 percent in 1998, touching a low of $9.55 on Dec. 21.
The 12-nation producer group hold its next formal meeting on
June 14 in Vienna. Several OPEC ministers will attend an
industry  conference  in Paris tomorrow.  “OPEC will have to cut production to avoid  prices  dropping
below $100 by summer,” Drollas said.  Global stockpiles will build by 1.2 million barrels a day
in the second quarter, the most since the same period in 2005,
when oil averaged about $55 a barrel, according to JBC Energy
GmbH, a Vienna-based research company whose clients include
ConocoPhillips, Kuwait Petroleum Corp. and Statoil ASA.  “The market is not tight,” said  David Wech , head of
energy studies at JBC, who forecasts Brent dropping to $111 a
barrel in the third quarter, from $117 in the second. “Saudi
Arabia is producing at very high levels, demand is weak so
refiners aren’t buying. Russian and West African prices are low,
so from the physical market perspective prices will come down.”  Saudi Arabia, Russia  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest crude exporter, said last
month it was producing 10 million barrels a day, near the
highest in at least three decades, as it seeks to calm fears of
insufficient supply. Russian oil and condensate production held
near a post-Soviet record, averaging 10.33 million barrels a day
in April, according to data released today from the Energy
Ministry’s CDU-TEK unit.  Inventories in industrialized nations rose by 22.6 million
barrels in March, compared with a five-year average decline of
10 million barrels, according to the IEA. Crude stockpiles in
the U.S., the world’s biggest consumer,  rose  3.98 million
barrels to 373 million in the week ended April 20 as the
nation’s production climbed to the highest in 12 years,
government data show.  Qua Iboe traded at a $1.35-a-barrel premium to benchmark
Dated Brent on April 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Russian Urals, the world’s largest spot traded crude,
changed hands in Europe at its lowest spread in almost one year,
while North Sea Forties, one of the four grades used to price
Brent, tumbled to a two-year low earlier this month.  Mahmoud-Reza Sajjadi, Iran’s envoy to Moscow, said April 25
officials are considering a Russian proposal to avert sanctions,
while  Israel ’s top military chief Benny Gantz said Iran’s
leadership is “rational” and won’t seek to build a bomb.  Hedge funds  and other money managers have  reduced bullish
bets  on London-traded Brent futures contracts for four
consecutive weeks, ICE data show.  “Supply concerns seem to be overstated, so prices should
continue to slide,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities
research at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, who in March correctly
predicted prices had peaked in the short term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net 
Raj Rajendran in London at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  