-- Wynn Macau Gets Land Grant for Casino on Cotai Strip
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-05-02T06:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/wynn-macau-gets-land-approval-for-casino-on-cotai-gambling-strip.html
Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128) , the unit of
billionaire Steve Wynn’s Las Vegas company, won a land grant for
its second resort in the Chinese city as surging revenue spurs
expansion by casino operators in the world’s biggest gaming hub.  The Macau government approved a 51-acre concession on the
Cotai strip for the unit of  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , the company said
in a statement today. Wynn Macau shares were halted from trading
in Hong Kong.  The decision clears the way for the company to add hotel
rooms and gaming tables in a market where Wynn Resorts gets 72
percent of  revenue .  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) ,  Sands China
Ltd. (1928)  and  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883)  also plan Cotai projects
or expansions to draw more Chinese tourists.  “It’s certainly positive news for  Wynn Macau ,” said Grant Govertsen, an analyst at Union Gaming Group. “The completion is
likely to be at least some three to four years away.” The
investment will cost $2.5 billion to $3 billion, Govertsen said.  Wynn Resorts got 72 percent of its 2011 revenue of $5.3
billion from Macau, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Wynn Macau accepted the terms of a draft land concession in
September from the city government for about 51 acres in Cotai,
according to its  annual report . The casino operator paid an
initial deposit of 500 million patacas ($63 million) in
December.  Wynn Macau, which was halted from trading today, has
climbed 28 percent this year in Hong Kong trading, compared with
a 14 percent increase for the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Asia’s Vegas Strip  Macau’s April gambling revenue increased 22 percent to 25
billion patacas, the Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau
said. Billionaire Stanley Ho’s  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) , gained as much
as 3.9 percent, Galaxy Entertainment rose as much as 2.9 percent
and Melco Crown Entertainment fell as much as 2 percent.  Wynn has said it planned to build a resort that includes a
casino and about 2,000 hotel suites. Its existing casino opened
in September 2006 on the territory’s peninsula.  Gambling companies are investing in resorts that combine
shopping centers, entertainment shows and hotel rooms to draw
Chinese visitors to Cotai. The strip of reclaimed land is
envisioned by casino operators to be the Asian equivalent of the
Las Vegas Strip.  Galaxy said April 26 that it plans to invest about HK$16
billion ($2.1 billion) to almost double the size of its Macau
resort. Sands China last month opened the $5 billion Sands Cotai
Central.  Macau is the world’s biggest casino hub, with $34 billion
in gambling revenue last year, almost six times the $6.07
billion of the Las Vegas Strip, according to government figures.  Wynn Competitors  Stanley Ho’s SJM, Asia’s largest casino operator, and  MGM
China Holdings Ltd. (2282)  don’t have Cotai resorts.  “The Macau government has indicated that it is going to
grant Cotai land approval for up to two casino operators this
year,” Govertsen said. “Now Wynn Macau has secured one slot,
meaning there is only one left for SJM or MGM.”  MGM China is the Macau venture between Ho’s daughter Pansy
and  MGM Resorts International. (MGM)   The latest approval comes as Wynn Resorts fights a legal
battle with Japanese billionaire Kazuo Okada, who opposed the
company’s HK$1 billion pledge in July 2011 to the University of
Macau Development Foundation. The  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425) 
chairman and the former Wynn Resorts vice chairman filed a
petition in state court in  Clark County , Nevada, in January for
access to financial records.  Wynn, based in  Las Vegas , sued Okada in February and
redeemed his 20 percent stake in Wynn Resorts saying he was
“unsuitable.” Okada is challenging the redemption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  