-- Myanmar’s Suu Kyi Enters Parliament After Detention
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-05-02T03:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/myanmar-s-suu-kyi-enters-parliament-after-years-in-detention.html
Myanmar democracy advocate  Aung San Suu Kyi , who spent 15 years under house arrest, became a
parliamentarian for the first time today in a further sign of
the former dictatorship’s political opening.  Suu Kyi took an oath required for lawmakers today in the
capital of Naypyidaw after dropping a demand that officials
change its wording, the  Associated Press  reported. Her National
League for Democracy, which won 43 of 45 seats up for grabs in
April 1 by-elections, had objected to language supporting the
military-drafted constitution.  “This is a historic moment,” said Thaung Tun, a retired
Myanmar diplomat who is a visiting senior research fellow at the
Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in  Singapore . “Now you
have a formal opposition in Myanmar. It’s a good beginning for
the democratic process.”  Suu Kyi’s participation in parliament adds to a political
opening over the past year that has put the nation of 64 million
people back on the map for investors. The U.S. said this month
it will lift economic and financial restrictions on certain
sectors of Myanmar’s economy,  Japan  forgave about $3.7 billion
of debt and the European Union suspended sanctions.  Following the NLD’s wins in by-elections, where it took
control of less than 10 percent of the 664-member body, members
wanted the oath for parliamentarians changed to say they would
“respect” rather than “safeguard” the constitution. Suu Kyi
dropped the demand two days ago “because of the people’s
desire,” spokesman Nyan Win said by phone on April 30.  ‘Flexibility’  The country’s transition to democracy requires
“flexibility in the political process,” Suu Kyi told reporters
yesterday in Yangon in an appearance with United Nations
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.  EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton , who visited
Myanmar earlier this week, told reporters in Bangkok yesterday
that she was “delighted” Suu Kyi’s party would enter
Parliament. The U.S. saw the opposition’s move as a “hopeful
sign,” State Department spokesman Mark Toner said.  “We would look for them to work together with the
government and to keep the momentum on democratic process,” he
told reporters in  Washington  yesterday.  Since taking office in March 2011, President Thein Sein has
freed political prisoners, sought peace deals with ethnic
armies, dismantled a fixed  exchange rate  that distorted
government revenue and halted the construction of a $3.6 billion
Chinese-backed hydropower project in response to growing
criticism  China  was exploiting Burmese resources. He also met
with Suu Kyi and convinced her party to rejoin the political
process after boycotting 2010 elections.  In 1990, the military rejected an election victory by Suu
Kyi’s party in which it won about 80 percent of seats for a
committee to draft a new constitution. Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace
Prize winner known in Myanmar simply as “The Lady,” was
detained during both that vote and the 2010 elections.  Her party is pushing to change the current constitution,
which guarantees the military a quarter of parliamentary seats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  