-- Yelp Reports Wider Loss as Marketing Expenses Surge
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-05-02T23:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/yelp-reports-wider-loss-than-analysts-predicted-as-costs-surge.html
Yelp Inc. (YELP) , a website that lets users
review businesses ranging from plumbers to pet shops, reported a
wider first-quarter loss amid surging expenses aimed at helping
the company grapple with competition from  Facebook Inc. (FB)   The first-quarter net loss widened to $9.83 million, or 31
cents a share, compared with a loss of $2.75 million, or 19
cents, a year earlier, the company said today in a statement.
Revenue rose 66 percent to $27.4 million.  San Francisco-based Yelp is spending more on sales and
marketing to widen its user base and woo local advertisers
aiming to reach reviewers. The company is facing more rivalry
with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook,  projected  by EMarketer Inc. to
control almost 40 percent of the U.S. online display-advertising
market by 2014. Yelp isn’t among the top five.  Yelp’s market capitalization of $1.4 billion is a ’’very
aggressive valuation for a company that launched eight years
ago, never reported a profit and faces growing competition for
local ad spending,’’ said Jon Burgstone, a professor at the
 University of California , Berkeley.  Costs jumped 92 percent to $37.1 million, outpacing
revenue. Money spent on marketing, the largest expense,
increased 67 percent to $18.8 million. Sales head count
increased almost 50 percent from the previous year, Rob Krolik,
Yelp’s chief financial officer, said in an interview.  Sydney to Stockholm  “We’re rapidly expanding our sales force, and that
ultimately drives our revenue,” Yelp Chief Executive Officer
Jeremy Stoppelman said in an interview. “We’re also investing
significantly in new markets, and much of that is being spent
overseas.”  The company raised $107.3 million in an initial public
offering March 1, joining the ranks of new companies that are
aiming to benefit from demand for social-media stock. Shares of
Yelp, co-founded by Stoppelman and Russel Simmons in 2004, have
increased 54 percent since the debut. They climbed 2.6 percent
to $23.16 at the close today in  New York .  The company has ramped up efforts to grow outside of major
U.S. cities and debuted last quarter in 11 new markets,
including Sydney and  Stockholm . It’s also promoting technology
that lets consumers use Yelp anywhere. Mobile applications were
accessed on an average 6.3 million devices a month in the first
quarter, the company said.  Even as costs mount, more users are coming the site and
adding more reviews. Reviews increased 59 percent to 27.6
million, while average monthly unique visitors grew 53 percent
to 71.4 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  