-- Lynagh Says He’s Lucky to Be Alive After Dodging ‘Cannonball’
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-02T04:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/lynagh-says-he-s-lucky-to-be-alive-after-dodging-cannonball-.html
Former  Australia  rugby captain Michael Lynagh said he’s yet to regain full vision since suffering a
stroke last month that his doctor said could have killed him.  Lynagh, Australia’s leading points scorer in international
rugby, held a news conference today after being released from
the Royal Brisbane and Women’s Hospital. He suffered the stroke
on April 16 while catching up with friends in his home town.  Although he’s able to undertake daily tasks including
reading, writing and using a computer, Lynagh, 48, said he’s
lost 45 percent of the vision in his left eye and is unable to
drive.  Rob Henderson , a neurologist at the hospital who has been
treating Lynagh, said such a severe stroke can be fatal.  “It’s been a tough couple of weeks, I’m pleased to be
here,” Lynagh told reporters. “It’s not an insignificant thing
that happened to me. As Rob said to me, ‘you didn’t just dodge a
bullet, you dodged a great big cannonball.’”  Lynagh, a  World Cup  winner with the Wallabies in 1991, will
remain in Brisbane for three to four weeks because it is too
dangerous for him to fly. He’ll then return to  London , where he
now lives with his wife and children.  Lynagh spent six days in intensive care after suffering a
cerebellar and occipital lobe stroke that was caused by a split
in an artery wall at the back of the right side of his neck.
Lynagh said he began to feel unwell after choking on a gulp of a
beer and laughing at the same time.  “Usually you can identify some minor trauma,” Henderson
told reporters. “In Michael’s case he was laughing and coughing
at the same time, so that might be a good thing to avoid.”  Record Breaker  Former fly-half Lynagh scored a record 911 points in 72
Tests for the Wallabies before retiring in 1995 as the
international game’s leading scorer. His world record tally
lasted until 1999, when it was surpassed by  Wales ’ Neil Jenkins.  At the 1991 World Cup, Lynagh scored a late try in a
quarterfinal against Ireland to give Australia a one-point
victory and kicked eight points in the Wallabies’ 12-6 win over
host  England  in the final.  He signed for Saracens in England in 1996 after the sport
went professional and retired two years later. He captained
Saracens to victory in the 1998 Tetley Bitter Cup, the club’s
first trophy in its 122-year history.  In April 2002, Lynagh joined the International Rugby Board
to assist with the global development and promotion of the sport,
though resigned in September that year. He’s since worked in
marketing and as a rugby analyst for U.K. broadcasters including
 Sky Sports .  “I understand how lucky I am,” Lynagh said today. “I’m
just very, very fortunate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  