-- Yoo Entitled to Immunity From Padilla Lawsuit, Court Rules
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-05-02T19:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/yoo-is-entitled-to-immunity-from-padilla-lawsuit-court-rules.html
John Yoo, an ex-U.S.  Justice
Department  attorney who wrote memos justifying harsh
interrogations of suspected terrorists, won dismissal of a
lawsuit brought by an ex-detainee alleging physical abuse, a
federal appeals court ruled.  Yoo, a former George W. Bush administration lawyer, was
sued in 2008 by Jose Padilla, detained for three years in the
U.S. as an enemy combatant and convicted of supporting
terrorists and conspiring to commit murder. Padilla, who claims
he was subjected to physical abuse, said Yoo was responsible for
violating his constitutional rights.  Yoo was Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Justice
Department’s Office of Legal Counsel from 2001 to 2003. The  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in San Francisco said today Yoo had qualified
immunity from the lawsuit because it wasn’t clear at the time he
acted that Padilla was entitled to the same constitutional
protections as an ordinary convicted prisoner.  It also “was not clearly established in 2001-03” that
Padilla’s alleged treatment was torture, a three-judge panel of
the court said in a unanimous decision. The ruling overturns a
decision by a federal judge in  San Francisco  who refused to
dismiss Padilla’s lawsuit. Yoo is a law professor at the
 University of California, Berkeley .  Qualified immunity protects government officials from civil
lawsuits if their conduct doesn’t violate a clearly established
constitutional right that a reasonable person should have known.  Reviewing Options  Padilla’s attorney, Jonathan Freiman, said he’s reviewing
options on whether to appeal further.  “Incommunicado detention, brutal treatment and death
threats do not represent American values and are universally
condemned,” Freiman said in an e-mail. “Hopefully no one else
will face the horror that Mr. Padilla and his family have faced.
The law should guarantee that, and the Ninth Circuit erred it
concluding that Mr. Yoo’s actions were not ‘‘beyond debate.’’  Yoo allegedly created a 2002 memo concluding that
interrogations must cause ‘‘death, organ failure or the
permanent impairment of a significant body function’’ to be
considered torture, according to Padilla’s complaint.  Enemy Combatant  Padilla was declared an enemy combatant closely associated
with al-Qaeda and held in military custody in a South Carolina
brig for more than 3 1/2 years. Padilla alleged he was subject
to abuses that mirror those at a Guantanamo Bay detainee prison,
including extreme isolation, prolonged sleep deprivation,
exposure to extreme temperatures and interrogation under threat
of torture.  The ruling is in keeping with a U.S. Supreme Court decision
last year that a man detained without charge for 16 days
couldn’t sue former Attorney General John Ashcroft.  ‘‘We cannot agree with the plaintiffs that he was just
another detainee -- or that it would necessarily have been
‘apparent’ to someone in Yoo’s position that Padilla was
entitled to the same constitutional protections as an ordinary
convicted prisoner or accused criminal,” the panel said today.
“An official could have had some reason to believe that
Padilla’s harsh treatment fell within constitutional bounds.”  The justices said they weren’t deciding whether Padilla’s
allegations about his treatment or the government’s allegations
about Padilla were true  The ruling “confirms that this litigation has been
baseless from the outset,” said  Miguel Estrada , Yoo’s attorney.
“For several years, Padilla and his attorneys have been
harassing the government officials he believes to have been
responsible for his detention, and ultimately, conviction, as a
terrorist. He has now lost before two separate courts of
appeals, and will need to find a new hobby for his remaining
time in prison.”  The case is Padilla v. Yoo, 09-16478, 9th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals (San Francisco). The lower-court case is
Padilla v. Yoo, 08-00035, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  