-- M&A Slumps to Lowest Level Since Financial Crisis’s Nadir
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-09-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/m-a-slumps-to-lowest-level-since-financial-crisis-s-nadir.html
Global mergers and acquisitions
slumped this quarter to a level not seen since the aftermath of
the financial crisis amid increasing concern the economic
recovery is deteriorating.  Companies have announced $446 billion of takeovers since
June 30, the smallest amount since the third quarter of 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Chinese state-run oil
company Cnooc Ltd.’s proposed purchase of Nexen Inc. was the
only transaction to top $10 billion in the period, the data
show. Acquisitions are now on pace to drop 15 percent in 2012 to
$2 trillion, the lowest in three years.  Cross-border takeovers have accounted for about half of all
announced deals this year, a trend that may continue with
European Aeronautic, Defence and Space Co. in talks to combine
with BAE Systems Plc. Still, while chief executive officers
worldwide are sitting on at least $3.4 trillion in cash, many
remain reluctant to pursue deals as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis drags on and signs grow that  China’s economy  is slowing.  “Executives have the cash, but they don’t have the
conviction,” said Andrew Bednar, head of advisory at Perella
Weinberg Partners LP, the New York-based investment bank. “I
don’t see any miraculous change in the M&A markets for the
foreseeable future.”  This quarter’s slowdown has been most pronounced in Europe,
where takeovers accounted for about $92 billion, or 21 percent,
of global activity, the continent’s lowest share since 2010. The
Americas accounted for $248 billion of transactions, and there
were $104.5 billion in the Asia-Pacific region.  Cross-Border Deals  The deals that are getting done are notable for cross-
border cooperation. More than $720 billion in takeovers this year
involve companies in more than one country, the highest share in
five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That includes Cnooc’s purchase of Canada’s Nexen and
Belgium-based Anheuser-Busch Inbev NV’s $20.1 billion buyout of
the shares of Mexico’s Grupo Modelo SAB that it didn’t already
own. EADS, based in Toulouse,  France , and London-based BAE said
this month they are in talks on a transaction that would
potentially create the largest European aerospace and defense
company with a combined market capitalization of more than $40
billion.  “What’s remarkable about this year is the size of the
cross-border transactions we’re seeing,” said Michael Carr,
head of Americas M&A at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  “They’re
notable in a market that’s characterized by caution.”  Goldman Sachs is the busiest merger adviser so far in 2012,
working on more than $375 billion of transactions, ahead of
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Goldman Sachs took first
place last year in Bloomberg’s ranking after Morgan Stanley led
in the previous two years.  Europe’s Troubles  There are fewer deals to fight over this year, partly
because of Europe’s extended sovereign-debt woes. The crisis has
forced leaders to implement aid packages in  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal  to help preserve the 17-nation  euro zone , with the euro
area bound for recession. That put a damper on the merger
market, said Adrian Mee, London-based head of international M&A
at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   “There is still a fair bit of concern about investing in
Europe in general, and southern Europe in particular,” Mee
said. “There needs to be a sustained period of confidence in
the macroeconomic outlook for the pace of deals to pick up
significantly.”  China ’s economy also has shown signs of deterioration as
manufacturing slows, increasing the chance that the country may
fail to surpass its growth target for the first time since 1998.  Asia Deals  Still, Asian buyers struck $133.9 billion, or about a
third, of this quarter’s deals. Besides Cnooc-Nexen, the biggest
proposed transactions include Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi’s S$9 billion ($7.3 billion) bid for a 70
percent stake in Fraser and Neave Ltd. and Tokyo-based Dentsu
Inc.’s 3.16 billion pound ($5.14 billion) purchase of British
advertising firm Aegis Group Plc.  “ Asia  is long capital, assets globally are cheaper, the
parties out here have balance sheets that are sound and they are
in a position to pursue international assets,” said Matthew Hanning,  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s head of  investment banking  for the Asia-
Pacific region.  Asia’s quest for raw materials to fuel an industrial
expansion has bolstered deals involving natural resources and
energy companies. Sales of such companies account for about 21
percent of the merger market this year, almost twice their share
during the first decade of the 21st century.  Natural Resources  “This is a trend that will continue for a significant
period of time,” said Nigel Robinson, London-based head of
energy and natural resources at  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Private-equity firms are playing a bigger role this year,
selling companies they bought during the buyout boom of 2006 and
2007, and investing in new leveraged buyouts, said Anthony Armstrong, co-head of Americas M&A at  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   LBOs increased to $39 billion this quarter, the most in
more than a year and about 9 percent of all merger activity.
 Carlyle Group  led the way with $15 billion of transactions,
including $4.9 billion for a DuPont Co. auto-paint unit and $3.5
billion for a division of United Technologies Corp.  “Sponsors have been quiet for a couple of years, but
they’re back,” said Armstrong, who is based in  San Francisco .  Bednar, of Perella Weinberg, predicted that merger activity
will continue to track this year’s $2 trillion pace, and that
the record $4 trillion of deals struck in 2007 during the height
of the leveraged-buyout boom may stand for some time.  “It’s not a small market -- it continues to be a very
large market,” he said. “But I’m not sure we’re going to see
the amplitude of peaks and troughs as high as they’ve been
historically. It’ll be much more of a steady state.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  