-- ‘Innocence of Muslims’ Filmmaker Nakoula Ordered Held
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-09-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/-innocence-of-muslims-filmmaker-nakoula-arrested-in-u-s-.html
Nakoula Basseley Nakoula, who made
the trailer for the film “Innocence of Muslims” that sparked
violent outbreaks in some Muslim countries, is being held
without bond after being arrested for violating the terms of his
supervised release.  Nakoula appeared at a hearing yesterday before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Suzanne Segal in Los Angeles. Thom Mrozek, a
spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s office in Los Angeles, said
Nakoula was arrested yesterday in Los Angeles and detained after
the hearing.  The 14-minute trailer shows a fictional attack by Muslims
on a Christian family, followed by an account of the origins of
Islam depicting the prophet Muhammad as a womanizer.  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube blocked access to the clip in Egypt and Libya
following attacks on the U.S. missions in those countries. The
U.S. ambassador to Libya and three embassy employees were killed
Sept. 11.  Jack Whitaker, a lawyer for Nakoula, declined to comment on
yesterday’s arrest.  Nakoula, 55, has a criminal history that includes bank
fraud by using false identities and a drug conviction. He was
questioned this month by U.S. authorities investigating whether
he violated terms of his parole.  Under the terms of his release, Nakoula was prohibited from
representing himself with anything other than his true legal
name, and is barred from using the Internet without permission
from his  probation  officer.  Actress’s Lawsuit  Cindy Lee Garcia, an actress in the movie trailer, sued
Nakoula, claiming he used the name Sam Bacile and misled her
about the content of the film to get her participation.  The Associated Press traced a mobile-phone number it had
for Bacile to Nakoula, a Coptic Christian living in suburban Los
Angeles. In an interview, Nakoula told the news agency he
managed logistics for the company that made the movie. He said
he wasn’t the director, according to AP.  Tim Dax, another actor in the film, told the  Los Angeles
Times  that he was paid $75 a day in checks drawn from a bank
account of Abanob Basseley Nakoula, a name linked to Nakoula’s
address in public records. Dax, reached through his Facebook
profile, earlier declined to comment further.  Nakoula was sentenced to one year in jail in 1997 for
intent to manufacture methamphetamine, according to Jane
Robison, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles County District Attorney
Steve Cooley. He was given another year for violating probation
in 2002.  Nakoula pleaded guilty to one count of bank fraud and was
sentenced to 21 months in prison and ordered to pay $794,700 in
restitution, according to the June 24, 2010, sentencing document
by U.S. District Judge Christina A. Snyder in Los Angeles.  The case is USA v. Nakoula, 09-cr-00617, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  