-- Hackers Attack Philippine Central Bank Site to Protest Cyber Law
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2012-09-27T08:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/hackers-attack-philippine-central-bank-site-to-protest-cyber-law.html
Hackers attacked websites of the
 Philippine central bank  and at least two other government
agencies last night to protest a law against cyber crime set to
take effect next week.  The Cybercrime Prevention Act of 2012 “effectively ends
the freedom of expression in the  Philippines ,” according to a
statement posted on the central bank website by a group that
called itself Anonymous Philippines. Websites of  Metropolitan
Waterworks & Sewerage System , the Pilipinas Anti-Piracy Team and
the  American Chamber of Commerce  were also defaced, the
Philippine Daily Inquirer reported today.  President  Benigno Aquino  signed the law on Sept. 12, which
identifies, prevents and punishes Internet-based crimes such as
hacking, identity theft and spamming. Provisions on online libel
and the authority of the  Department of Justice  to block websites
without a court order have been opposed in several petitions
filed with the  Supreme Court .  The law will “infringe on the Constitutional-guaranteed
freedom of speech and expression,” Senator  Teofisto Guingona , a
member of Aquino’s party, said in a statement today. Guingona
asked the Supreme Court to declare unconstitutional several
provisions of the law to take effect Oct. 3.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas’ website was restored by 2
a.m., Deputy Governor Juan de Zuniga said in a  statement  today,
apologizing for last night’s interruption. “For a few hours,
our website was inaccessible to those who needed to get real-
time information from the BSP,” he said.  The water agency’s website was still down as of 3 p.m.  Limitations of Liability  Guingona asked the high court today to stop the
implementation of provisions criminalizing online libel, setting
stiffer penalties for cyber crime and making a person liable
twice for the same offense. He also opposed the law’s
“ vagueness ” on limitations of liability.  “Without a clear definition of the crime of libel and the
persons liable, virtually, any person can now be charged with a
crime, even if you just like, retweet or comment on an online
update or blog post containing criticisms,” Guingona said,
referring to actions that can be performed through Facebook Inc.
and Twitter Inc. accounts.  These contradict the Constitution’s equal protection and
the law against double jeopardy, the senator said in his
petition.  The science and technology department is working to
strengthen the security of government websites, presidential
spokesman Edwin Lacierda said in a briefing in  Manila  today.
Freedom of expression is “not absolute” and critics should
bring the issue to the proper forum, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  