-- Adoboli Co-Worker on UBS ETF Desk Says Deserved to Be Fired
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-09-27T15:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/adoboli-co-worker-on-ubs-etf-desk-says-deserved-to-be-fired-2-.html
John Hughes , who worked with Kweku Adoboli on the  UBS AG (UBSN)  ETF desk and didn’t alert management to a
secret account Adoboli had where he hid profits to cover future
losses, testified his firing was fair.  “I don’t see myself as a casualty,” Hughes said at his
former co-worker’s London fraud trial today. “I think I fully
deserved to be dismissed.”  Hughes testified earlier this week that Adoboli told him in
January 2011 he had a secret account he called his umbrella,
which Hughes believed was profits from unbooked trades Adoboli
later used to cover losses. Prosecutors say he called it his
umbrella because it would protect him “on a rainy day.”  Adoboli’s lawyer, Charles Sherrard, said today that Hughes
had made his own off-book trades, knew of the umbrella account
and “at times controlled it.” Adoboli’s actions were “learned
behavior,” Sherrard said. Hughes was fired for gross misconduct
after Adoboli was arrested in September last year.  Prosecutors have charged Adoboli with fraud and false
accounting tied to unauthorized trades on which UBS lost $2.3
billion. The former trader admitted hours before his arrest that
he had risked $5 billion on Standard & Poor’s 500 futures and a
further $3.75 billion in the German futures market, a former
manager testified. Adoboli has pleaded not guilty.  Two of Adoboli’s former managers, Ron Greenidge and John DiBacco, testified separately last week that they thought they
were unfairly fired because of the trading loss.  ‘Thrown to Lions’  Hughes, who worked with Adoboli to manage a trading book as
large as $15 billion, threw his co-worker “to the lions” when
he was arrested, Sherrard said. There were at least four other
accounts within UBS similar to Adoboli’s umbrella, the lawyer
said. Hughes denied knowing about any besides Adoboli’s.  Sherrard showed evidence he said proved Hughes was aware of
the umbrella account for longer than he said and knew it had
been used before. He cited an electronic message in which
Adoboli said he needed to “take the buffer out again,” and
that use of the word “again” was revealing.  “We’re not writing novels here; it could be a slang
term,” Hughes said. “Just use of the word ‘again’ doesn’t mean
I knew about it for months.”  Rihanna  Sherrard said they sometimes referred to the umbrella
account as ’Rihanna’ after the musician who has a hit song of
the same name.  In an e-mail, Hughes told Adoboli, “I love you and loathe
you equal measure.” Hughes told Sherrard that he meant he was
happy Adoboli made money on the trades while unhappy about the
situation.  Hughes denied a suggestion by Sherrard that he saw a
spreadsheet of the fake trades.  Adoboli was “a really nice guy,” Hughes said, and a more
“cavalier” trader than he was.  “I honestly loved him, and to a certain extent I do still
now,” Hughes said.  Hughes lost his shares in UBS that were given to him as
part of his compensation when he was fired, he said. Sherrard
asked if he was upset about losing them.  “Let’s not go overboard,” Hughes said. “They are UBS
shares. The stock performance hasn’t been great over the last
couple years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  