-- AIA Agrees to $109 Million Acquisition of Sri Lankan Insurer
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-09-27T08:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/aia-to-enter-16th-market-with-acquisition-of-sri-lankan-insurer.html
AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , the third-largest
Asia-based insurer, plans to enter the  Sri Lanka  market with a
$109 million cash acquisition of a controlling stake in the
country’s second-largest life insurer.  AIA agreed to buy 92.3 percent of  Aviva NDB Insurance Plc (CTCE) 
to enter its 16th market, the Hong Kong-based company said in an
e-mailed statement today. The amount to be paid includes an
exclusive 20-year bancassurance agreement it will enter with
Aviva NDB’s part owner  National Development Bank Plc (NDB) , and the
sale of part of the acquired business back to the bank.  AIA Chief Executive Officer Mark Tucker has been trying to
revive new business growth at the insurer hurt during the global
financial crisis because of woes at its bailed-out former parent
American International Group Inc. He said in February that he
would pursue acquisitions only when they add value to investors
and are financially viable.  “The Sri Lankan business, complete with an outstanding
bancassurance partner, represents an excellent opportunity for
AIA to apply its strategy for sustainable profitable growth from
a position of leadership in a market we view as having great
potential,” Tucker said in the statement.  The insurer, which has traditionally relied on agents for
the bulk of its sales, is also expanding bancassurance
distribution.  AIA is buying the stake from London-based  Aviva Plc (AV/) , the
U.K.’s second-largest insurer, and National Development Bank,
according to the statement. The remaining stake will be publicly
traded on the  Colombo Stock Exchange .  Shares of AIA rose 2.1 percent to HK$28.85 at the close of
trading in  Hong Kong . The stock had the biggest gain in almost
two weeks. Aviva NDB, based and traded in  Colombo , has a market
value of more than 12 billion rupees ($92 million). It will
remain traded on the exchange after the acquisition, according
to the statement.  Bancassurance Deal  The Sri Lankan insurer will be renamed AIA after the
purchase is completed. The deal is expected to be reviewed by
the country’s Department of Exchange Control by the end of the
year, according to the statement.  AIA will sell an 83.9 percent stake in NDB Aviva Wealth
Management Ltd., part of the assets to be purchased, back to the
Colombo-based bank, it added.  Aviva NDB Insurance had gross written  premiums  of $81
million last year, 75 percent of that from  life insurance  and
the rest from non-life policies, according to the statement. It
has 3,000 agents which accounted for 84 percent of life written
premiums, it added.  AIA operates in 15 Asian markets with 24 million individual
policies and more than 10 million members for group insurance.
Its value of new business, a measure of the profitability of new
policies, rose 28 percent in the first half over a year earlier.  Sri Lanka’s life insurance gross written premiums grew an
annual average of 16 percent between 2006 and 2010 with 11
percent of the population owning insurance policies in 2010,
according to the statement. The country’s economy expanded 8
percent last year and is forecast by the  International Monetary
Fund  to increase 6.7 percent a year between 2011 and 2017, it
added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  