-- Airlines Brave African Frontier as Growth Outweighs Risks
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-09-28T17:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/airlines-brave-african-frontier-as-growth-outweighs-risks.html
After decades as the poor relation
of global air transport,  Africa  is attracting carriers from
Brussels to Beijing as a commodities boom spurs economic growth.  British Airways (IAG)  began serving its 19th destination there on
Sept. 10, while Qatar Airways Ltd. adds its fourth route of the
year next month and  FastJet Plc (FJET)  starts flights in November with
the aim of becoming the first ever pan-African discount carrier.  Airlines hurt by traffic declines elsewhere are rushing to
tap a rare growth market as economies in the sub-Saharan region
expand an average 5.3 percent in 2012, outpacing Russia, Brazil
and much of  Asia , according to International Monetary Fund
estimates. Hurdles to expansion include safety issues,
corruption, state interference and of selling tickets in
economies reliant on cash and lacking ready internet access.  “With the right cost structure there’s no reason why
airlines shouldn’t succeed,” International Air Transport
Association Chief Executive Officer  Tony Tyler  said by phone
from Dakar during a visit to Senegal this month. “We’ve seen
that happen in Asia, Latin America and other parts of the
developing world. People here say the easiest way to fly
anywhere in Africa is via Paris, which is ridiculous.”  Gulf Carriers  British Airways, a unit of International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA, added flights to Liberia via  Sierra Leone  on
Sept. 10 and now serves 16 Africa countries. Brussels Airlines -
- 45 percent owned by Germany’s  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  -- has
almost doubled the number of passengers it carries to the
continent since 2008 and founded a subsidiary in the Congo.  Turkish Airlines (THYAO)  is “very interested” in the continent, CEO
Temel Kotil said at a conference on Sept. 9. The carrier will
serve 24 cities there as of Nov. 16, when it adds Nouakchott in
Mauritania to the network, with about 80 percent of passengers
switching flights in Istanbul -- double the usual proportion --
reflecting the relative lack of direct African services.  Gulf carriers are also adding African routes, with Dubai-
based Emirates, the world’s biggest airline by international
traffic, leading the way with 22 destinations, including the
addition this year of Lusaka in Zambia and Harare in Zimbabwe.  Qatar Air will fly to Mozambique from October, its 18th
African route, after already adding the sub-Saharan destinations
of Mombassa in Kenya, Kilimanjaro in Tanzania and Kigali in
Rwanda -- the fastest growing of Africa’s top 25 airports. Abu
Dhabi-based Etihad Airways this year began flights to Nairobi
and Lagos, the continent’s two busiest hubs, and will serve
Addis Ababa from November for a total of eight African cities.  Business Fleet  Asian operators are also joining the rush, with China
Southern Airlines Co., the nation’s biggest carrier by passenger
numbers, prioritizing African expansion above other markets, Si Xianmin, the Guangzhou-based company’s chairman, said June 6.  African business-aircraft demand is likewise accelerating,
with the fleet expanding 25 percent in the 2007-2011 period
versus the prior five years to 1,156 planes, Hawker Beechcraft
said this month, citing JetNet research. About 40 percent are in
South Africa, with 9 percent in Kenya and 6 percent in oil-
endowed Nigeria, which accounted for 11 percent of new sales.  Still, the industry is starting from a low base, adding $8
billion to Africa’s gross domestic product in 2011, the smallest
contribution in any continent, and employing 260,000 people,
IATA says. That compares with $231.9 billion and 3.1 million
jobs in North America, which has the biggest aviation economy.  East-West Gap  Air links have traditionally been strongest with former
colonial nations in Europe, in southern and eastern Africa, and
on a north-south axis down the continent’s spine. That means
growth opportunities are greatest on ill-served east-west
routes, both within the region and to the Americas and Asia,
said Herman Carpentier, Africa sales chief at Brussels Airlines.  The company’s response has been to establish Korongo
Airlines, an $11 million joint venture with mining entrepreneur
George Forrest’s Groupe Forrest International in the  Democratic
Republic  of Congo, a former Belgian colony where the economy is
forecast to grow 3 percent this year.  The unit, which operates from Lubumbashi in the south of
the country to the capital Kinshasa and to Johannesburg, plans
to expand to commercial hub Mbuji-Mayi and mining center Kolwezi
in the next year, according to Carpentier, who said the model
could be replicated in other African countries if successful.  Poor Roads  “There’s a general lack of intra-African flights, yet other
infrastructure is very basic or non-existent in some areas, so
 air travel  is the best way to get around,” Carpentier said in a
phone interview from Brussels. “I think there’s real demand.”  Air Cemac, an airline planned by governments in central
Africa, chose  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group as a strategic partner after
terminating an agreement with  South African Airways , a spokesman
for Gabon’s presidency said last month. Air France is also an
investor in Air Cote d’Ivoire, which plans to start next month.  High fuel prices generally viewed as negative for airlines
are also driving growth in states with crude deposits, boosting
business flights and stirring leisure demand among a nascent
middle class. Oil is spurring travel across central Africa, from
Angola as far east as Uganda and Kenya, Carpentier said.  It’s in the east that FastJet will commence flying with the
aim of becoming the first discount carrier to span the region.
The company is building a fleet of  Airbus SAS A319  jets and will
operate first from Tanzania then Kenya, Ghana and Angola using
licenses held by majority investor  Lonrho Plc (LONR) , a mining, oil and
agricultural group active in Africa for more than 100 years.  Robbed Blind  The challenges for such startups are very different from
those faced elsewhere, according to Ron Peri, CEO of Orlando-
based airline ticketing specialist Radixx International, who
sums them up as the “Three Cs” -- for a cash-based economy,
the prevalence of corruption, and a general lack of competence.  “If you have strong cash markets but not necessarily the
strongest personal ethics you wind up with corruption all over
the place,” Peri said in an interview. “You need to have audit
trails everywhere. In Africa they talk about ‘revenue leakage,’
which is shorthand for ‘my employees are robbing me blind.’”  Graft isn’t limited to those directly involved in revenue
collection, according to IATA’s Tyler.  “Governments can’t stop interfering and squeezing to try
and get money,” he said. “They should look at aviation not as a
cash cow to be milked but as an engine for economic growth which
in the long run will provide much more  tax revenue , employment
and social development. We’ve seen that happen in Asia.”  SAA Resignations  Eight directors at state-owned South African Airways, the
continent’s biggest carrier, resigned after a disagreement with
the government ahead of the release of financial results,
Chairwoman Cheryl Carolus -- who was one of those who quit --
told Johannesburg’s SAFM radio station today. SAA may have had
an full-year loss of 1.5 billion rand ($182 million), Business
Day reported, without saying where it got the information.  The Public Enterprises Ministry later appointed Vuyisile
Kona, a former at the airline executive, as new chairman.  In Transparency International’s 2011  Corruption Perceptions
Index , where 0 is “highly corrupt” and 10 “very clean,” Rwanda
fared best among African nations with a score of 5, with war-
ravaged Somalia ranking equal to North Korea at the very bottom.  The prevalence of cash over credit means revenue collection
models also differ from those in established markets, with sales
dependent on travel agents and online bookings requiring leeway
for money transfers to be made days later, according to Peri.  Mobile Payments  That poses headaches for carriers such as FastJet, which
may struggle to replicate the online sales strategy that backer
 Stelios Haji-Ioannou  used at Britain’s  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Radixx says.  FastJet CEO Ed Winter said in an interview that if prices
are competitive Africans will find a way to pay, whether via
agents, internet cafes or mobile banking, which he says has
“really taken off” because of the lack of access to computers.  “The other thing is that there’s a fairly low expectation
that the plane will be there, so people prefer to hand over
bundles of cash at the airport when they can see it,” he said.
“Once we’ve won their confidence they’ll be prepared to book.”  The ultimate test of Africa’s maturing aviation industry
may be the success of otherwise of the continent’s homegrown
airlines in tapping the benefits of its economic expansion.  While overseas trade has increased, foreign operators are
ahead in “cashing in” on that growth, said Titus Naikuni, CEO
of  Kenya Airways (KNAL) , which is almost 27 percent owned by Air
France-KLM and a member of the European company’s SkyTeam global
alliance. The carrier is sub-Saharan Africa’s third-largest,
after South African Air and Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise.  Strongest Survive  Tewolde GebreMariam, CEO at Ethiopian, which has expanded
its business through the ASKY Airlines venture in Togo, said in
an e-mail that Africa is “dominated” by overseas entrants. The
local share of international traffic has slipped to 18 percent
from 22 percent in recent years, according to the carrier, a
member of the Lufthansa-led  Star Alliance  since December.  Still, weaker African airlines have mostly been eliminated,
Tyler said, citing pan-national francophone carrier Air Afrique,
which ceased flying in 2002, and Nigeria Airways, which failed a
year later, and the survivors are more serious propositions.  “The players left are pretty big, with pretty substantial
government backing,” the IATA chief said. “If they can manage
themselves well and develop the right international partnerships
then their prospects are good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  