-- Malaysia Said to Seek Lower Deficit, Growth Up to 5.5%
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-09-27T10:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/malaysia-said-to-seek-lower-deficit-growth-up-to-5-5-in-2013.html
Malaysia plans to reduce its budget
shortfall for a fourth straight year in 2013, when the  economy 
may expand 4.5 percent to 5.5 percent from about 5 percent this
year, according to a senior government official.  Prime Minister Najib Razak plans to gradually cut the
Southeast Asian nation’s deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic
product by 2015, the official told reporters today on condition
of anonymity ahead of tomorrow’s budget address in parliament.
That would be the smallest gap since 1998 during the Asian
financial crisis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I hope there will be more conscious efforts to balance
the budget and consolidate public finances,” Azrul Azwar Ahmad Tajudin, Kuala Lumpur-based chief economist at Bank Islam
Malaysia Bhd., said in a phone interview. “Next year’s growth
target is realistic given the multitude of uncertainties in the
global economy and financial system.”  This will be the prime minister’s last budget before he
calls elections due by early next year. Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings have said  Malaysia  should tighten public finances
after Najib, who is also finance minister, raised state salaries,
handed cash to low-income households and awarded infrastructure
projects to spur growth in the past year.  The ringgit, which has strengthened more than 3 percent
this quarter, advanced 0.2 percent to 3.0766 at the close of
Kuala Lumpur trading, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index rose 0.5 percent,
after closing at a record on Sept. 4.  Deficit Estimate  Malaysia,  Southeast Asia ’s third-biggest economy, will
probably post a  deficit  of 4.3 percent of GDP for 2013,
according to the median estimate of eight economists in a
Bloomberg News survey this week. The shortfall would exceed 4
percent for a sixth year after a 4.7 percent gap projected by
the government for 2012.  Najib’s ruling coalition won re-election in 2008 by the
smallest margin since independence in 1957 after facing a
resurgent opposition led by  Anwar Ibrahim .  Malaysia’s 2013 budget will be mildly expansionary, the
official said. The impetus for growth this year will come from
the domestic economy, and foreign investment is expected to
remain strong going forward, the person said.  Najib has attracted spending pledges from companies
including Royal Vopak NV after unveiling a so-called economic
transformation program in 2010 that identified $444 billion of
private-sector led projects ranging from mass rail to oil
storage for the current decade.  Najib remains committed to shifting the tax structure to
become more consumption based with the introduction of a goods
and services tax, the person said. More work needs to be done to
sell the idea to the general public first, the official said.  The government originally intended to introduce a GST level
of 4 per cent by mid-2011, replacing an existing narrower
services tax. Reduction of state subsidies on essential items
like sugar and fuel will continue to be done in stages, the
person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at  