-- Alcoa Gets First Free Carbon Permits From Australian Regulator
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-09-27T07:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/alcoa-gets-first-free-carbon-permits-from-australian-regulator.html
Alcoa (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, and Queensland Nitrates are the first to get free
carbon permits from Australia through an A$8.6 billion ($8.9
billion) program to help businesses facing global competition.  The companies are getting permits under the Jobs and
Competitiveness Program, according to a statement today from
Australia’s Clean Energy Regulator. Businesses such as aluminum
smelters and steelmakers, which face constraints in their
ability to pass through costs in global markets, can apply for
 free units  over three years, according to the regulator.  “These applicants have received around 6.37 million free
carbon units which companies can now sell back to the government,
transfer, or use to acquit their future liability under the
carbon pricing mechanism,” Chloe Munro, chief executive officer
of the Clean Energy Regulator, said in the statement.  Australia , the world’s biggest exporter of coal and the
nation with the most emissions per capita in the developed world,
is charging more than 300 of its largest polluters a fixed price
of A$23 a metric ton for their  greenhouse gases  starting July 1.
The rate will rise 2.5 percent a year in real terms until 2015,
when a cap-and-trade system is scheduled to begin.  Alcoa of Australia Ltd. will receive about 5.9 million
permits for alumina refining, while Queensland Nitrates gets
more than 400,000 free units, according to a summary on the
Clean Energy Regulator  website . The permits are for 2012-13.  Australia said in August it was abandoning its attempt to
set a minimum price for carbon permits and agreed to begin
linking to the European Union market by mid-2015. Australian
businesses can now buy permits from the EU system to comply with
domestic restrictions, Climate Minister  Greg Combet  said Aug. 28.  Tony Abbott , the Australian opposition leader whose
Liberal-National coalition leads Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  in
polls ahead of elections that must be held by November 2013, has
vowed to repeal the so-called carbon tax should he win power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  