-- Alpha Natural Convertibles Rise Most in a Month on Tender
-- B y   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2012-09-27T21:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/alpha-natural-convertibles-rise-most-in-over-a-month-on-tender.html
Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR) ’s
convertible notes rose the most in four weeks after the second-
largest U.S. coal producer announced a tender offer for some of
the debt.  Alpha’s $658.7 million of 3.25 percent convertibles due
August 2015 climbed 4.4 cents to 92.6 cents on the dollar at
11:29 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The securities yielded 6.13 percent.  The coal miner is seeking to buy as much as $350 million of
the notes for 94 cents on the dollar, if the debt is tendered by
Oct. 11, the Bristol, Virginia-based company said today in a
statement distributed by PR Newswire. The offer expires Oct. 25.  The conversion price on the securities is $85.16, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares rose 2.4 percent to
$6.75 in  New York .  Alpha is seeking to issue $500 million of debt to fund the
tender offer, the company said in another statement.  U.S. coal producers have struggled with a warm winter and
low natural-gas prices damping demand for thermal coal burned at
electricity generators and slowing growth in  China , the biggest
steelmaker, sapping demand for metallurgical coal used to
produce the alloy.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its ratings on Alpha, including
its corporate  credit rating  by one level to B+, four levels
below investment grade, from BB-, the agency said in a statement
today.  “Although leverage metrics will remain outside of our
rating expectations for the next year to two years, the
company’s liquidity is strong to weather the downturn,” S&P
said in the statement. “We believe the current downturn in coal
is cyclical rather than secular.” The agency removed Alpha from
CreditWatch, where it had been since Sept. 19.  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  is the largest U.S. coal producer by
sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Holley in New York at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  