-- Man Pleads Guilty to Extortion Attempt on Heisman Winner
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-09-27T22:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/man-pleads-guilty-to-extortion-attempt-on-heisman-winner.html
A man in Waco,  Texas , pleaded
guilty in connection with a scheme to extort $1 million from
Heisman Trophy winner Robert Griffin III, U.S. prosecutors said.  Richard Khamir Hurd, 26, contacted one of Griffin’s agents
and demanded $1 million from the Washington Redskins
quarterback, according to a statement issued today by the
 Justice Department . Hurd threatened to give the media
information that he claimed would “severely damage” Griffin’s
reputation unless he was paid, according to the statement.  “During negotiations with Griffin’s agent conducted at the
direction of the FBI, Hurd agreed to accept a lesser sum of
$120,000 in exchange for the information and signing a non-
disclosure agreement,” prosecutors in the office of U.S.
Attorney Robert Pitman in  San Antonio  said in the statement.  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agents arrested Hurd on
June 22, after he collected the check and signed the agreement
at a Waco law office, prosecutors said. Hurd, who is currently
on bond, faces as long as five years in federal prison when he
is sentenced in November on charges of receiving extortion
proceeds and interstate communication of a threat to injure the
property or reputation of another person.  Griffin, 22, won the Heisman at Baylor University last
season as college football’s best player.  Russell Hunt Sr., Hurd’s court-appointed attorney, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the guilty plea.
Griffin’s agent, Ben Dogra, didn’t immediately return a voice
message left at his office.  The case is U.S. v Hurd, 6:12-mj-00154, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Texas (Waco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  