-- Apple, Samsung Fight Over Contact With Jury After Verdict
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-09-27T20:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/apple-opposes-samsung-bid-to-bar-communications-with-jurors-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which is trying to stop
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  from claiming that a $1 billion trial
verdict was tainted by jury misconduct, asked a judge to deny
Samsung’s request that she bar communications with jurors.  Samsung asked U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose ,
California, on Sept. 21 to prohibit the companies from “any
further communication with jurors who served during the trial”
until its arguments for seeking a new trial are fully resolved.  Apple filed documents supporting its opposition to that
request today, after complaining to the judge two days ago that
Samsung hasn’t revealed whether it has already contacted jurors.  “Apple has not done so to date, yet Samsung is seeking to
preclude Apple from equal access to information,” Apple said in
a Sept. 25 filing. “Nevertheless, despite the lack of any merit
to Samsung’s request, Apple will not contact any jurors until
the court resolves this” dispute.  Samsung filed its claims of juror misconduct under seal,
citing concern for the privacy of jurors, according to court
filings.  The jury found Aug. 24 that Samsung infringed six of seven
Apple patents and awarded Apple $1.05 billion in damages.  Adam Yates , a spokesman for Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment
on Apple’s court filing today.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to comment.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  