-- Fiat-VW Dispute Highlights Tensions on 17-Year-Low Sales
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W u e s t n e r
-- 2012-09-28T11:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/marchionne-invited-vw-to-dawm-showdown-as-tensions-rise.html
Fiat (F)  SpA Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  CEO Martin Winterkorn
resolved a dispute that threatened to paralyze  Europe ’s main car
lobby group as the region’s market sinks to a 17-year low.  The executives emerged from a meeting of the ACEA industry
organization at the Paris Motor Show today shaking hands and
saying Marchionne will remain its head, following threats by
both Fiat and VW in recent months to quit the trade group.  Tensions are rising among manufacturers as European car
sales fall to the lowest level since 1995 and executives blame
one another for deep discounts that are generating losses. Since
taking the ACEA’s two-year rotating presidency in January,
Marchionne, 60, has called for cooperation among Europe’s
carmakers on cutting production in response to the contraction.  “It’s basically a spat between two alpha animals,”
 Juergen Pieper , an analyst at Bankhaus Metzler in  Frankfurt ,
said in a phone interview. “The tense situation on the European
market adds to the conflict.”  Auto executives at the Paris show have said demand in
Europe is unlikely to recover before 2014. The market’s decline
would be even steeper without a practice known as “self
registrations,” in which dealers sell cars to themselves
without having customer orders, according to Roelant de Waard,
head of European sales at  Ford Motor Co. (F)   Overcapacity Unresolved  Winterkorn told journalists today after the  ACEA  meeting
that he and Marchionne have been “good friends” for years and
have “settled things.”  Marchionne said ACEA members decided today to address
overcapacity on their own, though the automotive market is “not
pleasant,” and the industry must still address excess
production.  “We keep on fighting with the same competitors, we all
drink from the same trough and resources are limited,” he said.  The European car market has yet to bottom out and will not
rebound to 2006 levels for another three to five years,  Renault
SA (RNO)  Chief Operating Officer  Carlos Tavares  said in an interview.
Renault is in negotiations with labor leaders to increase the
competitiveness of French plants, he said.  “We’re in a middle of a storm and it goes on,” Tavares
said in an interview today. “That’s why we’ve started talks
with unions to find a menu of solutions.”  Volkswagen Edge  Volkswagen, bolstered by sales in China and premium marques
including Audi, is gaining market share in Europe by offering
discounts and financing packages that its competitors in France
and Italy can’t match. VW Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said at the Paris show this week that “especially
carmakers in southern Europe” may have trouble surviving the
crisis without government aid.  Stephan Gruehsem, VW’s chief spokesman, said in July that
Marchionne was not qualified to head the ACEA and threatened to
quit the organization after a  New York  Times article suggested
that Marchionne blamed VW’s pricing strategy for creating a
“bloodbath” in Europe.  General Motors Co. (GM)  said yesterday that “nobody” can make
money in Europe with Turin, Italy-based Fiat and Paris-based  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG)  trying to win customers with discounts of as
much as 30 percent.  Peugeot lost about 350 euros ($450) per car during the
first half in Europe, while some competitors lost 500 euros to
600 euros per vehicle, “an unsustainable situation in the long
run,” CEO Philippe Varin said yesterday. The market is “a very
aggressive environment,” with self-registrations becoming
widespread and accounting for as much as 30 percent of car sales
in  Germany  this year, Ford’s De Waard said yesterday in an
interview.  Under Pressure  “All these guys are under pressure in Europe and with
earnings,”  Marc-Rene Tonn , a Hamburg-based Warburg Research
analyst who recommends buying VW shares, said by phone. “VW is
gaining market share in Europe and worldwide. When you see your
opportunities to fight back as rather limited, you are perhaps a
little more aggressive than you would be in different times.”  Fiat closed a plant on the Italian island of Sicily in late
2011, and Peugeot and GM’s Opel unit have outlined plans to
shutter factories in France and Germany in coming years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Paris at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wuestner in Paris at 
 cwuestner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  