-- Arsenal’s Profits Double After Sales of Fabregas and Nasri
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-09-27T16:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/arsenal-s-profits-double-after-sales-of-fabregas-and-nasri.html
Arsenal Holdings Plc doubled its
profits during fiscal 2012 after the  London  Premier League
soccer team sold captain Cesc Fabregas and winger Samir Nasri.  Net income rose to 29.6 million pounds ($48 million), or
475 pounds a share, in the year ended May 31, from 12.6 million
pounds, or 203 pounds a share, the team said today. Revenue
declined to 243 million pounds as the club finished the
conversion of its former Highbury stadium into apartments.  Arsenal amassed 153.6 million pounds in cash as it
benefited from the sale of players, including Fabregas to
Barcelona and Nasri to Manchester City, and property. The 13-
time English champion is preparing for new European financial
rules that will require teams to keep spending in line with
sales.  “Clubs, fans and other stakeholders in the game are
demanding a more rational financial approach and this reinforces
our conviction that our club is strongly placed to succeed over
the long term,” Chief Executive Officer  Ivan Gazidis  said in
the club’s statement. “We have qualified for the  Champions
League  for the 15th season in a row while off the pitch we have
a business strategy and infrastructure that is helping us to
grow our revenues.”  Arsenal continued to sell players this fiscal year.  Robin Van Persie , who replaced Fabregas as captain, joined  Manchester
United  for as much as 24 million pounds after refusing to
negotiate a contract extension. Midfielder  Alex Song  moved to
Barcelona for 15 million pounds.  Development Plan  Arsenal supporters in recent years have been critical of
Wenger’s preference to develop young players rather than buy
established stars after seven years without winning any titles.  Before this season Wenger purchased attackers  Lukas Podolski , Santi Cazorla and Olivier Giroud. All three played for
their national teams during this year’s European Championship.
Arsenal is tied for fifth in the 20-team Premier League after
five games.  The cash was boosted by renewals from season ticket
holders, who had until the end of May to pay for their seats.  Arsenal said commercial sales rose 5.6 million pounds,
taking the income in that part of its business to 34.2 million
pounds. That amount is lower than that achieved by rivals
including Chelsea and Liverpool, and more than three times less
than record 19-time English champion Manchester United brings in
annually from partners and sponsors.  Arsenal can expect higher revenue from sponsorship from
2015 when its current deal with jersey manufacturer Nike Inc.
and top sponsor Emirates are up for renewal. United earlier this
year announced General Motors Co. is paying $559 million to have
its Chevrolet brand’s logo on the Red Devils shirt. Arsenal’s
stadium-naming agreement with Emirates airlines runs through
2021.  Arsenal’s majority shareholder is American billionaire  Stan Kroenke , who also owns the National Football League’s St. Louis
Rams and the  Denver Nuggets  of the National Basketball
Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 