-- Hartford CEO Sees Flexibility for Buybacks After Deals
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-09-27T17:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/hartford-ceo-sees-flexibility-for-buybacks-after-deals.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG)  is creating “a tremendous amount of financial
flexibility” as the insurer divests units and weighs share
repurchases, Chief Executive Officer Liam McGee said.  McGee, 58, is focusing on property-casualty coverage, such
as commercial insurance and auto policies, after  reaching deals 
this year to sell Hartford’s broker-dealer, the retirement-plans
business and the individual annuities distribution unit.
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  has emerged as the lead bidder for
Hartford’s individual  life-insurance  arm, people familiar with
the matter said last month.  “The businesses that we’re staying in have generated a
substantial amount of capital,” McGee said in an interview
today. “The businesses that we’re getting out of consume
virtually all of that capital. By selling and shutting down the
businesses, we’re eliminating that consumption of capital.”  Hartford trades for about 40 percent of  book value , a
measure of assets minus liabilities. The insurer in the second
quarter completed a $500 million share repurchase plan that was
authorized in August of 2011.  “Buybacks are certainly among the most accretive things we
could do today,” given the firm’s book value, he said in the
interview at a company office in  New York .  ‘Obvious Appeal’  McGee said the Hartford, Connecticut-based insurer needs to
balance the “obvious appeal” of buybacks with the need to keep
cash free to do other deals, such as transactions that could
require payments to manage the risk of annuities. The insurer
may also pay down debt, he said.  Credit-default swaps tied to Hartford’s bonds fell 30.8
basis points to 164.2 basis points as of 12:30 p.m. in New York,
the biggest drop since March 21, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
The swaps, which investors use to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline as
investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  Hartford climbed 63 cents, or 3.4 percent, to $19.31 at
1:30 p.m. The shares have gained 19 percent this year, outpacing
the 10 percent rally of the 24-company  KBW Insurance Index. (KIX)   A deal with Prudential could happen as soon as today, the
Wall Street Journal said on its website. Hartford declined to
comment on the report. McGee said Hartford will provide more
details about capital levels and its plans after selling the
life unit.  Book Value  As Hartford divests units and reduces the risk from
annuities, it will trade more like property-casualty peers,
McGee said. Travelers Cos., the lone insurer in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , sells for 5 percent more than its  book
value .  “No, we’re not happy with the share price,” McGee said.
“Over time, I’d rather have the multiple to book of a property
and casualty business.”  Billionaire  John Paulson , whose hedge fund is Hartford’s
largest investor, has called on the firm to “do something
drastic” to boost the stock price, which fell 39 percent last
year. He pushed Hartford to split its property-casualty
operation from life insurance. McGee answered with plans to sell
or shutter parts of the insurer that are most sensitive to
stock-market fluctuations and low  interest rates .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  