-- Hartford to Sell Life Unit to Prudential for $615 Million
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-09-28T00:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/hartford-to-sell-life-unit-to-prudential-for-615-million.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG)  agreed to sell a life-insurance unit to  Prudential
Financial Inc. (PRU)  as Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee  divests
units to narrow his company’s focus.  Prudential, the second-largest U.S. life insurer, will make
a $615 million cash payment as part of the agreement, which is
structured as a reinsurance deal, the companies said yesterday
in statements. Hartford advanced 1.6 percent to $19.60 in
extended  trading  at 5:26 p.m. in  New York  yesterday after saying
it would get a net statutory capital benefit of about $1.5
billion from the deal, including the cash payment.  McGee, 58, is focusing on property-casualty coverage, such
as commercial insurance and auto policies, after  reaching deals 
this year to sell Hartford’s broker-dealer, retirement-plans
business and individual-annuities distribution unit. Hartford
trades for less than in 2010 when it paid back a taxpayer
rescue, as lower bond yields and stock-market fluctuations hurt
results from life insurance and annuities in the U.S. and  Japan .  “Our core competency is not managing interest-rate bets,
equity-market bets, or foreign exchange,” McGee said in an
interview yesterday before the announcement. “Shareholders
aren’t going to pay us for managing those risks.”  Hartford said it will turn over about $7 billion of general
account assets to help cover obligations. The transaction is
expected to be completed early next year, and will cover about
700,000 policies with a face amount of approximately $135
billion, Prudential said in its statement.  Buybacks Weighed  The cumulative capital benefit from the life, retirement
and broker-dealer sales is about $2.2 billion, according to
Hartford’s statement. McGee said yesterday before the deal was
announced that he may use capital for buybacks or to pay down
debt. The firm plans to provide an update on capital plans early
next year, according to its statement.  “Buybacks are certainly among the most accretive things
we could do today,” given the firm’s book value, McGee said in
the interview.  Hartford gained 19 percent this year through yesterday’s
close and trades for about 40 percent of book value.  Newark , New
Jersey-based Prudential climbed 9.4 percent since Dec. 31 and
trades for two-thirds of book value.  McGee narrowed the company’s focus after billionaire
investor  John Paulson  pressured him to separate the life and
property-casualty operations. Paulson’s hedge fund, Paulson &
Co., was Hartford’s  biggest shareholder  as of June 30, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Strangfeld’s Target  Prudential CEO John Strangfeld, 58, is targeting return on
equity of at least 13 percent next year as he integrates Japan-
based units that he purchased from  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  in 2011. Strangfeld said in August that Prudential had
about $4 billion in cash and short-term investments at the
parent company and that most of the funds can be used to repay
debt, be redeployed or support operations. The insurer’s return
on equity was 11 percent to 11.5 percent last year.  The deal “will create an organization with greater scale,
enhanced product offerings and expanded distribution
expertise,” Strangfeld said in the statement. “Hartford’s
individual life insurance business represents a unique
opportunity for us.”  Jim Avery, CEO of Prudential’s individual life business,
will retire when the transaction is completed. Kent Sluyter,
vice president and chief actuary of the unit, will replace
Avery, who is 61. Sluyter, 53, began working at Prudential in
1981 and has a bachelor’s degree in mathematics from Lafayette
College, according to Prudential’s statement  Employee Transition  Hartford said its employees at the individual-life unit
will be offered positions with Prudential. After the deal, the
benefits and provisions of Hartford’s life insurance contracts
will remain in place.  McGee’s life business had net income of $36 million in the
second quarter, compared with $46 million a year earlier,
according to a regulatory filing from Hartford, which is based
in the Connecticut city of the same name. In addition to
property-casualty insurance units, McGee will also retain a
mutual-funds operation and group-benefits unit, which provides
life policies and disability coverage through employers.  Hartford’s bankers were  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Greenhill & Co. and the company’s legal adviser was Sutherland
Asbill & Brennan LLP. Perella Weinberg Partners LP and Morgan
Stanley advised Prudential, Sheila Bridgeforth, a spokeswoman
for the insurer, said in an e-mail. Debevoise & Plimpton LLP
said it provided legal advice to Prudential.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  