-- Harvard, Time Warner, Toys ‘R’ Us: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-09-27T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/harvard-time-warner-toys-r-us-intellectual-property.html
In a case involving the OncoMouse,
a rodent genetically modified to contain a cancer-causing gene
that can be inherited,  Harvard College  and its licensee sued the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  In the complaint filed Sept. 14 in federal court in
Alexandra,  Virginia , Harvard has asked the court to review the
patent office’s refusal to consider additional claims to patent
5,925,803, which covers a testing method using transgenic mice
having the cancer-causing gene.  Harvard and its exclusive licensee,  DuPont Co. (DD) , are asking
the court to declare that the patent office “acted arbitrarily,
capriciously, and contrary to law” by concluding that the
patent had expired and in refusing to permit added claims.  They want the patent office to add new claims and for the
court to declare the patent is still in effect.  Licensing rates for the OncoMouse haven’t been disclosed.  A
2004 article  in the Scientist magazine suggests that the
transgenic mice patents “are some of the most valuable
 intellectual property  that has ever been created.” According to
the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, DuPont
registered “OncoMouse” as a trademark in January 2002.  The case is President and Fellows of Harvard College v.
David J. Kappos, 1:12-cv-01034-LO-IDD, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  DC Comics Sues Florida Barbershop Over ‘Superman’ Marks  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s DC Comics unit sued the operator of two
central Florida barbershops for trademark infringement.  The comic book company objects to the “ Supermen Fades to
Fros ” and “Superman Pro Barbershop” names used by the
barbershops, and the use of its Superman-related trademarks on
the barbershop chain’s outdoor sings and website.  The public is likely to falsely assume that an affiliation
exists between the barbershops and the comic book company, DC
Comics says. Despite receiving multiple requests from DC Comics
to cease and desist in its alleged infringement, the barbershop
chain continues to use “infringing promotions in the marketing,
advertising and solicitation of the infringing barbershops,”
the comic book company said in its complaint.  It asked the court to bar further infringement, for the
surrender and destruction of all infringing promotional
materials and to be awarded the shops’  supermenfadestofros.com 
Internet domain name.  DC Comics also asked to be awarded three times the shops’
profits attributable to the alleged infringement, attorney fees
and ligation costs.  The barbershop chain didn’t respond immediately to an e-
mailed request for comment.  The case is DC Comics v. Jones, 6:12-cv-01456-JA-GJK, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of Florida ( Orlando ).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Artist Awarded Damages for Unauthorized Reproduction of Works  A  North Carolina  artist who discovered copies of his work
were being sold in retail stores without his permission has
settled his case against the retailer.  Thomas Fleming of Wilmington, North Carolina, filed suit in
federal court in  Santa Ana ,  California , in May 2011 after
learning that copies of two of his paintings were being sold in
 California HomeGoods  stores without authorization.  In the complaint he said he had been contacted in 2010 by a
California HomeGoods supplier -- ATI Industries Inc. of Orange
County, California -- about reproducing two of his works,
“Depths of Love” and “Spirit & Life.” Fleming listened to
the offer, and decided not to allow the reproductions, he said
in his pleadings. He later learned that reproductions of these
two works had been made without his permission and were being
sold in California HomeGoods stores throughout  Southern
California .  He said he was injured by this alleged infringement, and
asked the court for money damages of at least $150,000,
surrender and destruction of all infringing copies, and awards
of attorney fees and litigation costs.  According to the minutes of the non-jury trial, the court
found his copyrights had been infringed, and awarded him
$10,800. Fleming filed his notice of dismissal of the case,
noting that each side was to pay its own litigation costs.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Toys ‘R’ Us Accused of Misappropriating Fuhu’s Trade Secrets  Toys “R” Us Inc. (TOYS) , the Wayne, New Jersey-based toy retail
chain, was sued for trade secret misappropriation by a
California company that develops Internet applications.  According to the complaint filed Sept. 24 in federal court
in  San Diego , Toys “R” Us is accused of violating a
confidentiality agreement with Fuhu Inc. and selling a knockoff
copy of Fuhu’s tablet for children that is powered by Google
Inc.’s Android operating system.  El Segundo, California-based Fuhu said it created its nabi
tablet in 2011, and that Toys “R” Us became its exclusive
distributor. The initial order of nabi tablets sold out on the
Toys “R” Us website within a few days, according to court
papers. Initially Toys “R” Us reported pre-orders coming in at
the rate of 1,000 every three hours, until the point at which
the toy company stopped accepting pre-orders, Fuhu said in its
complaint.  It accused the toy seller of doing “virtually no
promotion” and of ordering nabi tablets in quantities that were
“commercially unreasonable.” After a disappointing Christmas
season, Fuhu terminated the distribution rights of Toys “R” Us
in January 2012.  In September, Toys “R” Us introduced the Tabeo, a tablet
device Fuhu says competes with the nabi. In a Sept. 24
statement, Fuhu President and co-founder Robb Fujioka said the
Tabeos are “cheap knockoffs” that devalue “the children’s
tablet category as a whole.”  In the complaint, Fuhu said the promotion and business plan
for Tabeo is based on information it disclosed to Toys “R” Us
in confidentiality for use in marketing the nabi.  Fuhu also accused Toys “R” Us of infringing the trade
dress of the nabi. Both products have a butterfly shape, Fuhu
said, noting that the name of its product -- nabi -- is the
Korean word for “butterfly.”  It asked the court to order Toys “R” Us to halt its use
of Fuhu’s trade secrets and the surrender of all Tabeo tablets
to the California company. Additionally, Fuhu seeks money
damages, including extra damages to punish Toys “R” Us for its
actions, together with awards of litigation costs and attorney
fees.  Toys “R” Us declined to comment because the company is in
the process of reviewing the complaint, company spokeswoman
 Kathleen Waugh  said in an e-mail yesterday.  The case is Fuhu Inc., v. Toys “R” Us Inc., 3:12-cv-
02308-WQH-WVG, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
California (San Diego).  IP Talk  WIPO Told Its Technical Assistance Didn’t Violate Sanctions  The  World Intellectual Property Organization ’s technical
assistance to  North Korea  doesn’t violate United Nations
sanctions resolutions, WIPO said in a Sept. 24  statement .  Jose Filipe Moraes Cabral, chairman of the UN committee
that oversees implementation of Security Council resolutions
related to North Korea, said in a letter to WIPO Director
General Francis Gurry that “nothing” in three specific
Security Council resolutions bars the technical assistance
program WIPO has conducted in North Korea.  This included the transfer of equipment and software aimed
at assisting the Democratic People’s Republic Of Korea in
developing technical capacity for IP rights protection.  The Geneva-based WIPO said it already had in place measures
to ensure that all managers must seek guidance and clearance
from its Office of Legal Counsel for any activity proposed in a
country subject to UN sanctions.  In April 2012 Fox News  broke a story  accusing WIPO of
making an end run around sanctions put in place against North
Korean for that country’s efforts to build nuclear weapons. WIPO
was trying to send North Korean computers to use for its IP
protection programs, according to Fox.  In July members of the U.S. House Committee on  Foreign
Affairs , wrote a letter to Gurry with respect to the agency’s
technical assistance to North Korea and  Iran . The letter asked
for “unfettered access to all documents and witnesses relating
to these transfers to Iran and North Korea.”  In response Edward Kwakwa, legal counsel at the Geneva-
based organization, said that the two countries were receiving
only “standard information-technology equipment” after meeting
WIPO’s needs-assessment and validation procedures.  He said the technical assistance didn’t include any kind of
technology or graining barred under Security Council
resolutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 