-- Stocks, Oil Rise on Spain Budget, China Stimulus Bets
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-09-27T20:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/asian-stocks-drop-to-two-week-low-on-growth-concern-won-climbs.html
Stocks rallied and commodities
rebounded from a seven-week low as  Spain  pledged to cut its
deficit and speculation grew that  China ’s government will do
more to support economic growth. The dollar and Treasuries fell.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  climbed 0.8 percent at
4:30 p.m. in  New York , rebounding from its biggest drop since
July. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1 percent,
halting a five-day slump, and the Shanghai Composite Index
jumped the most in three weeks. The S&P GSCI gauge of
commodities gained 1.3 percent as oil rebounded, while the
dollar weakened versus all 16 major peers. Spain’s 10-year bonds
rose for the first time in three days, while U.S. notes halted
the longest rally since 2008.  Equities  extended gains  as Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano
Rajoy ’s government announced its fifth austerity package in what
may be a move to head off tougher conditions as part of a
potential European bailout. Stocks started the session higher as
bets on more stimulus efforts from China overshadowed U.S. data
signaling a slowdown in business spending and weaker-than-
estimated second-quarter economic growth.  “People are still quite sensitive to news out of  Europe 
and macro developments in general,”  John Carey , who helps
oversee about $220 billion at Pioneer Investments in  Boston ,
said in a telephone interview. “Yes, people are encouraged by
Spain’s austerity package. On the other hand, one does wonder
what cuts will mean for growth. There’s also been speculation of
Chinese stimulus,” he said. “Anything that could boost the
economy would be viewed positively.”  The S&P 500 snapped the longest  losing streak  since July.
The index as of yesterday had erased all its gains since the
Federal Reserve said Sept. 13 that it will undertake a third
round of so-called quantitative easing and probably hold the
 federal funds rate  near zero until at least the middle of 2015.  Market Movers  Newmont Mining Co. and Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
paced gains in commodity shares, rising more than 2 percent.
 Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT) , the largest U.S. tiremaker, rallied
3.9 percent as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised buying the
shares. Discover Financial Services surged 7.3 percent after the
credit-card company posted profit that beat analyst estimates as
fewer loans soured. Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. rose more than 1 percent.  General Electric Co., the world’s largest maker of  jet
engines  and diesel locomotives, climbed 2.9 percent and led
gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  after
raising its forecast for profit growth at its industrial units.  Stocks opened higher even after government data showed the
 U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.3 percent pace in the second
quarter, down from a previously estimated 1.7 percent. The
National Association of Realtors’ index of pending home resales
dropped 2.6 percent, showing the recovery in the housing market
will be uneven.  Economic Data  Orders for non-defense capital equipment excluding
airplanes rose 1.1 percent after decreases of 5.2 percent in
July and 2.7 percent in June, the Commerce Department reported.
Total orders for durable goods, those meant to last at least
three years, plunged 13 percent, the most since January 2009,
paced by a decline in demand for civilian aircraft.  Applications for  jobless benefits  decreased 26,000 to
359,000 in the week ended Sept. 22, the lowest since July, Labor
Department figures showed. Economists forecast 375,000 claims,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The  S&P 500  has rallied almost 3 percent in September,
poised for a fourth straight monthly gain, and is up more than 6
percent in the third quarter.  Over the last 20 years, October has been the third best
 month  for the Dow behind November and April, according to data
compiled by Bespoke Investment Group. The 30-stock gauge has
risen an average 1.8 percent with positive returns 70 percent of
the time, the study shows.  Treasury Auction  Ten-year Treasury yields increased almost five basis points
to 1.65 percent after falling for eight straight days, reducing
the rate by 26 basis points during the stretch.  An auction of $29 billion of U.S. seven-year notes today
yielded 1.055 percent, compared with a forecast of 1.064 percent
in a Bloomberg News survey of six of the  Federal Reserve ’s 21
primary dealers. The sale’s bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered, was 2.61, the lowest in 11 months and below the 2.82
average for the past 10 auctions.  European Markets  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 0.3 percent, rebounding
from yesterday’s 1.8 percent tumble. Opap SA rallied 3 percent
as  Greece  called a tender to sell a 33 percent stake in the
country’s biggest gambling company. Hennes & Mauritz AB declined
5.8 percent after Europe’s second-largest clothing retailer
reported third-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  The Stoxx 600 has climbed more than 8 percent since the end
of June, on course for the biggest quarterly gain this year.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield dropped 12 basis points to 5.95
percent today. Rajoy’s Cabinet approved a new tax on lottery
winnings and a cut in ministries’ spending to shrink the euro
area’s third- biggest budget deficit. The 2013 target is 4.5
percent of gross domestic product compared with a 6.3 percent
goal for this year. He’s risking a deeper recession while an
unemployment rate of 25 percent stokes  mounting protests.  Corporate Debt  The cost of insuring European corporate debt fell for the
first time in four days, tumbling from the highest in a month.
The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50
mostly junk-rated companies dropped 19 basis points to 562,
heading for a fourth monthly decline.  The dollar weakened against all 16 major peers, losing the
most versus the currencies of  New Zealand , Australia and Sweden.
The pound climbed 0.5 percent to $1.6239, halting a three-day
decline, after the U.K. economy shrank less than previously
estimated in the second quarter and disposable incomes rose the
most since 2009.  The S&P GSCI rebounded after falling yesterday to the
lowest since Aug. 6. Coffee, oil and silver rallied at least 2.2
percent to pace gains in 19 of 24 commodities tracked by the
index. Oil in New York climbed 2.1 percent, the most in eight
weeks, to $91.85 a barrel after yesterday dipping below $90 for
the first time since August.  Oil VIX  Costs to protect against losses in oil jumped to a 16-month
high compared with U.S. stocks, a sign the slowing economic
recovery may be a greater risk to energy demand than to share
prices.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Crude Oil  Volatility
Index , tracking 30-day options on the United States Oil Fund LP,
reached a two-month high of 36.58 on Sept. 19. The same day, the
ratio between the oil gauge and the CBOE Volatility Index, or
VIX, for equities rose to its highest since May 2011. The VIX
plunged 12 percent today to 14.84, and the oil volatility gauge
slid 5.9 percent.  The Shanghai Composite  rallied  2.6 percent and the CSI 300
rose 3.1 percent. The Shanghai Securities News said there was
speculation the government would announce market-boosting
measures. China’s central bank added a net 365 billion  yuan  ($58
billion) to the financial system this week, the highest in
Bloomberg  data  going back to 2008, as cash demand rose before a
week-long holiday next week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  