-- Assange Says U.S. WikiLeaks Inquiry Reveals His Life’s at Risk
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-09-27T18:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/assange-says-u-s-wikileaks-inquiry-reveals-his-life-s-at-risk.html
WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange
says secret U.S. military documents indicate his life is at risk
if he’s handed over to the U.S.  Assange, who has been holed up in Ecuador’s embassy in
 London  since June to avoid being extradited to  Sweden  on
allegations of sex crimes, said U.S.  Air Force   documents 
obtained under a freedom of information request show the U.S.
has designated him as an “enemy.”  “The U.S. administration is trying to erect a national
regime of secrecy,” Assange said in comments broadcast last
night at a meeting in the  United Nations ’ headquarters in New
York. “A regime where any government employee revealing
sensitive information to a media organization can be sentenced
to  life imprisonment  for espionage.”  Ecuador’s government, whose decision to grant asylum to the
anti-secrecy activist set off a diplomatic row with the U.K., is
seeking British guarantees they won’t allow the Australian
national to be turned over to the U.S., where Assange says he
could face torture and execution.  Assange sought asylum in  Ecuador ’s embassy after exhausting
options in U.K. courts to avoid extradition to Sweden, where he
faces questioning on allegations of rape and sexual misconduct.
British officials have rejected Ecuador’s concerns he will be
handed over to the U.S. if he is sent to the Nordic nation.  “There is sufficient evidence that Mr. Assange could be
taken to the U.S. and face not only the death penalty or life in
prison, but other types of punishment,” Ecuador’s Foreign
Minister Ricardo Patino said last night at the UN meeting.  Secret Document  Assange said the documents posted yesterday on the
WikiLeaks website have been in the group’s possession for
months, and formed part of his asylum request to Ecuador, though
were kept secret until now out of security concerns.  “We should not underestimate the scale of the
investigation which is happening to WikiLeaks,” Assange said.  At a meeting on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly
today, British Foreign Secretary  William Hague  tried to dispel
fears Assange’s human rights would be violated, saying Patino
should “closely” study safeguards in U.K. extradition law,
according to an e-mailed statement from the British Foreign
Office. No solution to the standoff was reached.  WikiLeaks published a report on its website yesterday that
it says was written by the Air Force’s Office of Special
Investigations. The report, dated May 31, 2012, details a probe
of a U.S. soldier suspected of “communicating with the enemy”
by leaking classified information and allegedly meeting with
“anti-US and/or anti-military” groups in London. It didn’t
specify what groups the suspect allegedly met with, though
WikiLeaks is named elsewhere in the heavily-redacted report.  The U.S. Defense Department had no immediate comment when
contacted by e-mail.  Australia  Patrick Lowe, a spokesman for Australian Foreign Affairs
Minister Bob Carr, said in a phone interview from New York that
the documents were obtained through a freedom of information
request.  “It’s not a matter for  Australia ,” he said, declining to
comment further.  Assange, first arrested in London in December 2010, is
accused in Sweden of failing to use a condom with one woman and
having sex with another while she was asleep. The women, both
supporters of WikiLeaks, let Assange stay at their homes during
a speaking tour in Sweden in 2010. He hasn’t been charged with a
crime.  Assange claims the U.S. seeks to punish him for releasing
thousands of classified military and diplomatic cables through
WikiLeaks. The allegations against him became public around the
same time he posted the leaked cables on the Internet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in  New York  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net  or
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  