-- Austria Says Hypo Alpe Mustn’t Repay $3.3 Billion LoansL
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-09-27T15:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/austria-says-hypo-alpe-mustn-t-repay-3-3-billion-loansl.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International
AG, the lender nationalized by Austria, should be banned from
repaying 2.6 billion euros ($3.3 billion) in loans from former
owner  Bayerische Landesbank , the government said in a lawsuit.  Germany ’s BayernLB, which dropped support for Hypo Alpe in
late 2009, triggering the Austrian bailout, lent the money at a
time when it knew the bank wouldn’t be able to repay it, the
Austrian Chancellery said in a lawsuit filed yesterday. The
funds may qualify as “substituting equity,” which under
Austrian insolvency law means they must not be repaid, the
government said in the lawsuit, a copy of which was obtained by
 Bloomberg News . The lawsuit was filed against the European
Commission at the European Union General Court in Luxembourg.  “Starting with the summer of 2012, the Republic of Austria
has obtained evidence that suggests the loans are to be
qualified as equity-substitute,” according to the lawsuit. The
“repayment ban could still be in force,” the government said.  Matthias Priwitzer, a spokesman for BayernLB in Munich,
declined to comment on the lawsuit. Leo Szemeliker, a spokesman
for the Austrian Chancellery, confirmed the government had filed
the lawsuit against the European Commission. A spokesman for the
commission declined to immediately comment.  Austria ’s Profil
magazine reported Austria’s lawsuit earlier today.  Investigation Continuing  The nationalization of Hypo Alpe, once owned by southern
Austria’s Carinthia province, caused 3.7 billion euros of losses
at Munich-based BayernLB. Hypo Alpe, which expanded in the 2000s
to become one of the biggest banks in the former  Yugoslavia , has
cost Austrian taxpayers at least 700 million euros since the
nationalization and may need another 2.2 billion euros in state
capital by the end of 2013. Austrian and German prosecutors have
been investigating since 2009 how former managers and investors
may have contributed to the losses.  BayernLB bought its initial 50 percent stake in Hypo Alpe
for 1.63 billion euros in 2007 from Carinthia, insurer Grazer
Wechselseitige and a group of investors led by Tilo Berlin, Hypo
Alpe’s former chief executive officer. BayernLB is itself suing
Hypo Alpe’s former owners and managers, saying it was duped into
the purchase, an allegation they deny. Several cases brought by
state prosecutors and Hypo Alpe, based in Klagenfurt, Austria,
are still pending.  The government also denied in the lawsuit that it
guaranteed BayernLB it would repay the 2.6 billion-euro loan in
case Hypo Alpe doesn’t. Formally, its lawsuit is against the
European Commission for mentioning that guarantee in its July 25
decision to approve German state aid for BayernLB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  