-- Laws Revive ‘World Before Roe’ as Abortions Require Arduous Trek
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-09-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/laws-revive-world-before-roe-as-abortions-require-arduous-trek.html
In the year since Carrie Klaege
moved to  Arizona  and started a non-profit program to help poor
women afford abortions, she’s watched access to the procedure
get tougher for her clients.  Following a rash of  new laws , abortions are no longer
available at clinics outside Tucson and Phoenix and women must
wait 24 hours after required ultrasound tests before terminating
pregnancies -- forcing some to travel hundreds of miles and stay
overnight. Klaege said she’s now making connections in other
states where she could send women if the courts allow a ban on
later abortions to take effect.  “Abortion is legal, but when you have to travel 300 miles
to get to a clinic that provides the services you need, you
don’t really have access,” says Klaege, co-founder of the
 Abortion Access Network of Arizona  and the former clinic
director for Dr. George Tiller, a Kansas physician murdered in
2009 for performing abortions. “The availability and access to
services is being severely impacted, and it is starting to cause
some real difficulty for women.”  Over the past two years, state lawmakers across the U.S.
have been passing new abortion restrictions at a record pace.
Dozens of laws stipulating who can perform abortions, how
abortion pills can be administered, tighter building standards
for abortion clinics and what women need to do before abortions
have been enacted -- helping create a patchwork of access to the
procedure that the U.S. Supreme Court deemed a constitutional
right almost 40 years ago.  New Requirements  In  Mississippi , new requirements on doctors threaten to
shutter the state’s last remaining abortion clinic. In  Virginia ,
a Board of Health decision this month to make existing clinics
meet building standards for new hospitals, may force facilities
to close, make costly renovations or move. In  Utah , women must
wait 72 hours after counseling -- the longest delay in the
nation -- before they can get an abortion. And nine states since
2010, including Arizona, have banned abortions after 20 weeks,
around the same time many women learn about fetal abnormalities.  The laws, some of which are tied up in court challenges,
have created a disparity in access to abortion that hark back to
the days before the Supreme Court’s landmark Roe v. Wade
decision, said Wendy E. Parmet,  associate dean  at Northeastern
University School of Law in  Boston .  “We are moving back to the world we had before Roe,” she
said in a telephone interview. “We are moving toward a world
where some women have fairly ready access to abortion and other
women have a really difficult time accessing abortion. We’re
seeing some of the same kind of barriers and some of the same
divisions we saw back in 1973 playing themselves out again.”  More Regulation  Court decisions after Roe have permitted more regulation of
the procedure by states, Parmet said. Lawmakers have responded
by pushing the envelope of what they can do, including laws that
make it more difficult on clinics and doctors who provide
abortions and measures intended to shame women and make
abortions more of a hassle, Parmet said.  New laws requiring counseling, ultrasounds and waiting
periods are showing some success in helping women choose not to
abort, said Michael New, an assistant professor of political
science at the University of Michigan-Dearborn and adjunct
scholar with the anti-abortion  Charlotte Lozier Institute  in
 Washington .  New, who wrote in  LifeNews.com , an online publication, that
clinic restrictions like those in Mississippi and Virginia are
“a wise strategy for pro-lifers,” said the intent is to
protect women, not necessarily close clinics or increase the
economic barriers to getting an abortion.  ‘Unborn Children’  “We’re interested in protecting the safety of the women
and the safety of the unborn children,” New said in a telephone
interview. “The vast majority of what pro-lifers have done is
trying to change the hearts and minds of the women. The end game
is not necessarily the closure of the clinic as such, it is
protecting the health and safety of the women.”  The pace of abortion regulation accelerated after
widespread statehouse victories by Republicans in 2010. Last
year, states  passed a record  92 abortion restrictions -- almost
three times the previous high of 34 in 2005, according to the
New York-based Guttmacher Institute, a compiler of reproductive-
health data that supports abortion rights. In the  first half of
2012 , states enacted 39 additional limits.  “We are seeing the number of providers decrease and the
number of restrictions increase,” said Elizabeth Nash, state
issues manager at Guttmacher. “Clinic regulations, waiting
periods, ultrasounds -- you keep adding these things and it
becomes really difficult.”  Paperwork Hassle  Tanya Rollins said she had no idea how much paperwork she
faced when she decided on an abortion last month in  Texas .
Rollins, 35 of Frisco, said mandatory counseling included a
warning of a  disputed link  between abortion and breast cancer.  “Risk factors are much larger for other surgeries that you
are not given this kind of counseling for -- and you don’t need
it,” Rollins said in a telephone interview. “Because I
disagree with you morally, you are going to make me jump through
hoops? You can look down the road and fear that one day it won’t
be accessible and it won’t be legal.”  The new laws are increasing regional disparities with women
in the South, Midwest and Mountain West facing more barriers
than those in the Northeast or on the West Coast, Parmet said.  Access outside major metropolitan areas is limited. Fewer
U.S. counties have abortion providers than when the  Supreme
Court  decided Roe v. Wade: 87 percent in 2008, compared with 83
percent in 1973, according to Guttmacher’s most recent data.  Five states now have one clinic, including Mississippi,
which had 14 in 1981.  Limited Access  “Access basically depends entirely on where you live,”
said Julie Rikelman, litigation director for the New York-based
Center for Reproductive Rights. “Even though it is supposed to
be a constitutional right available to all Americans in the
 United States , it is really a right only available to a minority
of American women.”  Bans on later abortions, new requirements for clinics
providing the procedure after the first trimester and a decrease
in providers have made access difficult further along in
pregnancy.  “There are a number of states where you really can’t get
an abortion after the first trimester,” said Stephanie Poggi,
executive director of the Boston-based National Network of
Abortion Funds.  Not Here  When Kimberly O’Brien, a 35-year-old married attorney,
sought an abortion last year after tests found brain development
problems in the fetus, she discovered that she couldn’t get the
procedure done in  New Orleans , where she lives.  O’Brien, then 22 weeks pregnant, and her husband drove six
hours to Houston. While the travel wasn’t a financial burden,
she said, she thinks it would be hard for low-income women to
pay for gas and a hotel and take time off work.  “It made me aware of a situation I would have never known
about otherwise,” O’Brien said in a telephone interview. “My
assumption was, if you need to get one, you can make it happen
in your home town or a few towns away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  