-- Bahrain Bank Reaches Agreement on Takeover of Leeds Soccer Club
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-09-27T10:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/bahrain-bank-reaches-agreement-on-takeover-of-leeds-soccer-club.html
Three-time English soccer champion
Leeds United moved closer to being sold after Bahrain-based bank
Gulf Finance House EC said one of its units has signed an accord
to lead a takeover.  GFH Capital Ltd. has an agreement to lead and arrange the
acquisition of Leeds City Holdings, the parent company of the
team, according to a filing made with the Bahrain bourse.  Leeds attempted to challenge Manchester United and Arsenal
for  England ’s Premier League title in the early 2000s with a
spending spree for top talent. The team’s failure to match its
expenditure with success led it to fall into financial
difficulties and in 2004 it was demoted from the top flight.
After a spell in the third division and entering  bankruptcy
protection , Leeds now plays in the Championship, one level below
the Premier League.  “It is expected that from next season each team in the
Premier League will receive a minimum of 60 million pounds ($97
million) per season due to the increase in broadcasting
rights,” the bank said in its statement. “LUFC would also
benefit from this if it can achieve promotion.”  GFH declined to provide further details, citing a
confidentiality clause. Leeds chairman Ken Bates, who once owned
Chelsea, five days ago said the team was in advanced
negotiations about potential investment.  Finer Points  “There’s a number of finer points to be resolved but we’re
making good progress,” Bates said in a  statement  in the club
program, describing the investors as a publically traded bank
with interests across the Gulf,  Asia , and  Africa . “We had four
of the top people over here for a big meeting on Friday and they
are at our game on Saturday.”  Leeds spokesman Paul Dews didn’t respond to a message
seeking comment. GFH declined to comment on whether it’s buying
the club or acting for a third party.  GFH has also suffered from financial difficulties in recent
times. In May the investment bank, which specializes in  Islamic
finance , obtained permission from creditors to restructure a
$110 million debt. The Press Association reported David Haigh, a
Leeds fan who is the deputy chief executive officer and chief
operating officer of GFH Capital, may be leading the bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  