-- Bankers Must Wash Hands Before Returning to Work
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-09-27T22:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/bankers-must-wash-hands-before-returning-to-work.html
Here’s an idea for improving the
regulation of banks: Treat them more like restaurants.  One of the great things about eating out in  New York , where
I work, is that you can go to the local health department’s
 website  and get inspection information for each of the city’s
24,000 restaurants. So, for example, if you want to look up
whether A+ Thai Place in  Manhattan  had rats during its last
inspection, you can. (It did.) Eateries also must conspicuously
post the grade they got (A+ Thai received a “C”) so every
customer who walks in can see.  With banks, you can’t get report cards like this from
regulators. And heaven forbid a U.S. lender ever wants to
disclose its own supervisory rating to outsiders. The Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. has long  said  that is confidential
information, the release of which can lead to criminal charges.  This brings me to former FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair ’s new
score-settling book, “ Bull by the Horns .” What I found most
surprising was how freely and openly she discussed the precise
details of the supervisory ratings that had been assigned to
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  at various times during the financial crisis.  For instance, on Page 170: “On May 26, 2009, our head of
supervision, Sandra Thompson, sent a letter to  William Rhodes ,
the CEO of Citibank, notifying him that FDIC examiners had
downgraded Citibank to a CAMELS 4,” Bair wrote.  Deep Trouble  To my knowledge, this fact hadn’t been disclosed before. A
rating of “4” is the FDIC’s second-lowest score and means a
bank is in deep trouble. Under the five-point “ Camels ” scale,
banks are rated on their capital adequacy, asset quality,
management, earnings, liquidity, and sensitivity to market risk.  Some information about Citigroup’s regulatory ratings did
 emerge  when the congressionally chartered  Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission  released its final report and exhibits in
2011. But I couldn’t find any reference to that specific rating
when I searched the commission’s online archives this week.  And you know what? There has been no damage to Citigroup or
the financial system as a result of Bair’s disclosure.  Another example: On Page 168 of the book, Bair wrote that
in early 2009, “our FDIC examiners were aghast that the OCC had
kept Citi’s CAMELS rating at a 3 even though it had required
three separate bailouts.” The inquiry commission did release
 documents  last year showing that particular rating by the Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency. But it was news for Bair to
say the FDIC examiners were aghast about it. I had thought that
sort of information about examiners’ views was confidential.  Larry Hughes, a spokesman for the book’s publisher, Simon &
Schuster Inc., said in an e-mail: “I ran this by Sheila -- she
said she’s pretty sure this all came out in the FCIC report and
was also leaked to the press (she suspects by Citi as she
recounts in the book).”  Perhaps she is right. There are hundreds of hours of audio
recordings on the inquiry commission’s website that I didn’t
listen to. However, her book didn’t attribute the information
about Citigroup’s ratings or examination findings to any
materials released by the commission. Even if Citigroup did leak
the information, that wouldn’t mean she had permission to
publish it. I asked Hughes if he could point me to the inquiry-
commission records that Bair was referring to, but he declined.
A Citigroup spokeswoman,  Shannon Bell , declined to comment.  In a joint 2005  press release  still on the FDIC’s website,
the FDIC and other banking regulators said the agencies’
regulations prohibit disclosure of Camels ratings and other
information contained in bank-examination reports.  Eliminate Secrecy  “Any person who discloses or uses nonpublic information
except as expressly permitted by one of the appropriate federal
banking agencies or as provided by the agency’s regulations may
be subject to the criminal penalties” laid out in federal
statutes, the release said.  If Bair was authorized to discuss the information about
Citigroup’s ratings in her book, she hasn’t explained how. But
that’s not the main point here.  Examination ratings are just the kind of information that
should be publicly available about every bank. So let’s
eliminate the secrecy. It damages our economy, undermines
investor confidence and gives financial institutions too much
leeway to go astray.  Regulators haven’t shown themselves to be any better than
the  markets  are when it comes to uncovering big problems at
federally insured banks. We might as well make all their
examination findings open records. That way, the public can see
when the regulators are failing at their jobs. Depositors can
make fully informed choices about where to keep their money. And
banks will be under much greater pressure to fix their problems.  Authorized or not, Bair’s revelations do everyone a favor.
Maybe if I’m lucky she will let me thank her over lunch someday,
at a fine restaurant that got an “A” for sanitation -- and
next door to a bank with the same or equivalent grade in the
window.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  dangers of China-bashing 
in U.S. politics and on the  Wheatley review of Libor ;  Jonathan
Alter  on  fixing campaign finance ; Stephen L. Carter on
 Washington’s outsize wealth ; William Pesek on bringing the
 Olympics to Japan ;  Steven Greenhut  on  Chicago ’s challenge to
 California on unions ; Lawrence Sheets on the folly of ignoring
 Georgia’s elections .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  