-- Barclays Opens Precious Metals Vault in London as Demand Climbs
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-09-27T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/barclays-opens-precious-metals-vault-in-london-as-demand-climbs.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  opened its first
precious metals vault in London this month at a time when
investors’ gold holdings reached a record and central banks are
expanding their bullion reserves.  The facility, designed by Brink’s Ltd., is one of the
largest in Europe and will store gold, silver, platinum,
palladium and rhodium, the bank said in an e-mailed statement
today. The vault, within the M25 road that orbits London, took
more than a year to build, Barclays said.  Gold is extending 11 consecutive annual gains as the
 Federal Reserve  announced a third round of quantitative easing
and as central banks from Europe to  China  to  Japan  also pledged
more action this month. Metal held in bullion-backed  exchange-
traded products  rose to a record 2,551.9 metric tons valued at
$144.1 billion on Sept. 25, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Malca-Amit Global Ltd. and Deutsche Bank AG are also planning to
open or increase bullion storage facilities.  “We’ve built the vault in response to customer demand,
people wanted to store gold in a Barclays vault,” said Jonathan Spall, product manager for metals at the bank. “There’s a
changing nature that we’re seeing in the gold market that now
people want an asset that is either allocated or unallocated
metal. Since QE3, the number of enquiries to store precious
metals has gone up.”  Gold for immediate delivery traded at $1,756.38 an ounce
today for a 12 percent gain this year. Prices rose to $1,787.52
on Sept. 21, the highest since Feb. 29. Gold ETP holdings
climbed 7.9 percent this year. That compares with a 7.5 percent
increase for silver, 18 percent for platinum and 15 percent for
palladium products, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Central Banks  Central banks are joining investors in accumulating gold.
Nations from  South Korea  to Russia to  Kazakhstan  raised reserves
this year. Central banks bought 254.2 tons in the first half of
2012 and may add close to 500 tons for the year, according to
the London-based World Gold Council.  The Fed said Sept. 13 it will buy $40 billion of mortgage
debt a month and probably hold the federal funds rate near zero
until at least the middle of 2015. The  Bank of Japan  said last
week it will add to a fund that buys assets. The  European
Central Bank  announced an unlimited bond-purchase program Sept.
6 and China approved a subways-to-roads construction plan.  Some investors buy gold and silver as a hedge against
inflation and a weaker dollar. Precious metals generally earn
returns only through price gains, increasing their allure as
 interest rates  decline.  Bullion Market  Barclays is one of 11 market-making members of the London
gold market, the London Bullion Market Association’s website
shows. The bank has offered clients precious-metals transfer-
clearing and account custodian services since 2005 and
previously stored metal through a third-party, Barclays said.  Deutsche Bank said in March it will open a precious metals
vault in the U.K. next year. The bank’s clients can store gold
in Malca-Amit’s vault at the  Singapore  FreePort, Mark Smallwood,
head of Asia-Pacific wealth-management solutions at Deutsche
Bank’s asset and wealth-management unit, said in a Sept. 20
interview from Guilin, China. Malca-Amit is doubling its space
in Singapore, the company said in February.  U.K. gold vaults are traditionally located within the
 London  area bounded by the M25 road, the LBMA’s website shows.
The gold stored in such vaults is typically to the LBMA’s so-
called good delivery standard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  