-- Barclays Said to Be Talks to Sell UPP Stake to Chinese Firm
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-09-27T14:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/barclays-said-to-be-in-talks-to-sell-40-of-upp-to-chinese-firm.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  funds began exclusive
talks to sell their 40 percent stake in the U.K.’s second-
largest student-housing operator to a Chinese  investment
company , two people with knowledge of the discussions said.  Gingko Tree Investment Ltd. is negotiating the purchase of
the funds’ remaining stake in  UPP Group Holdings Ltd. , owned by
 Barclays Infrastructure Funds Management , said the people, who
declined to be identified because an agreement hasn’t been
reached.  The Barclays funds sold 60 percent of UPP to Dutch pension-
fund manager PGGM NV earlier this month in a deal that valued
the company at about 1.4 billion pounds ($2.3 billion),
including debt. UPP manages dormitories for 13 universities in
the U.K., housing 26,406 students and generating annual rental
income of 104 million pounds.  Jon Laycock, a spokesman for London-based Barclays, Jon
Wakeford, a spokesman for UPP, and  Mike Bryan , a Gingko Tree
investment manager in  London , all declined to comment.  For fiscal 2012, UPP had earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of 46 million pounds. The company
plans to invest 1 billion pounds in the next two years to build
and renovate college facilities, which would increase its yearly
rental revenue to 133 million pounds.  Record Deals  U.K. student housing deals will exceed last year’s record
1.18 billion pounds, Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. predicts. The
regular income returns generated by dormitories, prospects of
rising rents and the industry’s growth potential are attracting
investors, according to the Chicago-based broker.  Rental income from a typical student residence in the U.K.
yielded about 6.3 percent last year,  Savills Plc (SVS)  estimates. That
compares with 4.3 percent for other types of housing and 5.8
percent for commercial real estate, according to the London-
based property broker.  Barclays Infrastructure Funds Management hired UBS AG two
years ago to sell all or part of its investment in UPP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 