-- Bayer, Onyx Win U.S. Approval for Colorectal Cancer Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-09-27T20:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/bayer-onyx-win-u-s-approval-for-colorectal-cancer-treatment.html
Bayer AG (BAYN) , Germany’s largest
drugmaker, and  Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX)  won U.S. regulatory
approval for an advanced-colorectal cancer drug for patients
whose disease progressed after trying standard therapies.  The  Food and Drug Administration  said in a statement today
that it cleared the treatment, called Stivarga, a month ahead of
schedule. The two companies said they will jointly promote
regorafenib in the U.S., with South San Francisco-based Onyx
receiving royalties of 20 percent on global sales of the drug.  Cancer that starts in the colon or rectum is the third-most
common cancer in the U.S., excluding skin tumors, affecting
about 140,000 men and women each year, according to the  American
Cancer Society . Stivarga may generate $536 million in sales in
2016 for Bayer and $251 million for Onyx, according to the
averages of analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Stivarga is the latest colorectal cancer treatment to
demonstrate an ability to extend patients’ lives and is the
second drug approved for patients with colorectal cancer in the
past two months,”  Richard Pazdur , director of the Office of
Hematology and Oncology Products in FDA’s Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research, said in the statement.  The FDA approved Zaltrap, made by Paris-based Sanofi and
 Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN)  of Tarrytown,  New York , for
advanced colorectal cancer Aug. 3.  Onyx  rose  2.6 percent to $84.64 at 4 p.m. New York time,
adding to an 88 percent gain in the stock this year through
yesterday. Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer  climbed  1.3 percent
to 68.40 euros.  Living Longer  People who took Stivarga lived a median 6.4 months longer,
compared with five months for patients who were given a placebo
and treatments for pain and other symptoms, Bayer said in a
study presented in January.  Stivarga is approved with a boxed warning on severe and
fatal liver toxicity.  Bayer also has asked the FDA to expand use of the drug to
treat a form of stomach tumors in patients whose disease
progressed despite taking other treatments. The drug has the
potential to reach peak annual sales of 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) with multiple approved uses, Bayer said in a December
statement.  An estimated 103,000 Americans will develop  colon cancer 
this year and 40,000 will get rectal cancer, according to the
Atlanta-based American Cancer Society. The group said that about
52,000 people in the U.S. will die from the disease in 2012.  Excluding skin afflictions, the two most common types of
cancer for men are of the prostate and lung, according to
government data. For women, breast and  lung cancer  are the
leading types.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  