-- Big EU Banks Faced $256 Billion Basel III Capital-Gap Last Year
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-09-27T11:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/big-eu-banks-faced-256-billion-basel-iii-capital-gap-last-year.html
The largest European Union banks
would have needed an extra 199 billion euros ($256 billion) in
their core reserves had new Basel capital rules been enforced at
the end of 2011, the bloc’s top banking regulator said today.  The 44 banks, considered systemically important for the
global financial system, would have needed to raise a total of 8
billion euros to meet the bare minimum level of 4.5 percent core
tier 1 capital, according to a report on the European Banking
Authority’s website. The figure rises to 312 billion euros when
taking into account additional surcharges for the biggest banks.  The actual capital and liquidity shortfalls may differ from
industry estimates “as the banking sector reacts to the
changing economic and regulatory environment,” the regulator
said in the report.  Global regulators have clashed with lenders over the
severity of the capital and liquidity rules, which were set out
in 2010 by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  as part of
an overhaul of banking regulation in the wake of the financial
crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. The measures, known as Basel III, will more than triple the
core capital that lenders must hold to at least 7 percent of
their assets, weighted for risk.  The Basel group’s own survey covered 102 larger banks and
107 other lenders. It found that the largest global banks would
have needed an extra 374.1 billion euros in their core reserves
to meet the standards scheduled to be phased in by 2019.  The EBA carried out a capital-raising exercise this year in
which it required banks to raise 114.7 billion in fresh capital
by the end of June.  Banks can address shortfalls in meeting capital
requirements by either boosting their reserves or by reducing
their assets weighed for risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  