-- Blackburn Wants Tim Sherwood to Replace Kean as Manager: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-27T07:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/blackburn-wants-tim-sherwood-to-replace-kean-as-manager-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Rovers Return  Blackburn Rovers  want to hire their 1995 Premier League-
title winning captain Tim Sherwood as manager to replace  Steve Kean , the  Sun reported .  Club owner Venky’s (India) Ltd. is close to firing Kean and
Sherwood, who’s spent the past four years as Tottenham Hotspur’s
assistant first-team coach, tops the list of potential
successors, the newspaper added.  On Alert  PSV Eindhoven  put  Manchester United  on alert after telling
midfielder Kevin Strootman he can leave the club in January if
his 20 million-pound ($32.3 million) valuation is met, the  Daily
Mail reported .  United sent scout  Martin Ferguson  to watch the 22-year-old
Strootman, who’s played 11 times for the Netherlands national
team, on several occasions last season, the Mail added.  Winning Wager  Ryan Tunnicliffe’s Manchester United debut as a substitute
in last night’s League Cup win against Newcastle earned his
father a winning bet of 10,000 pounds, the  Guardian reported .  When the 19-year-old midfielder was nine, his father Mike
placed a 100-pound wager that his son would one day play for
United at odds of 100-1, the newspaper added.  Waiting Game  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  urged Theo Walcott to show
patience with his desire to play as a central striker, the  Mail
reported .  Walcott started on the wing and scored twice in last
night’s 6-1 League Cup win against Coventry after saying this
week that playing as the main forward may be instrumental in his
signing a new contract with the club, the newspaper added.  “At the moment there is big competition up front, we have
a different formula and the team is doing well,” the Mail cited
Wenger as saying. “His time will come for that and at the
moment we have to be a bit patient.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  