-- BOE Says Slow Bank Earnings Growth May Impair Capital Raising
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-09-27T08:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/boe-says-slow-bank-earnings-growth-may-impair-capital-raising.html
The Bank of England’s Financial
Policy Committee said banks’ efforts to raise capital to improve
stability may be impaired by slow earnings growth.  “Banks had made some limited progress in generating
capital internally and should continue to limit cash
distributions to build capital further,” the central bank said
in the record of its Sept. 14 FPC meeting released today in
 London . “Given that earnings growth was likely to remain low,
the scale of potential further capital generation through this
route was limited.”  The FPC said that U.K. lenders’ progress in raising capital
had been “slow” and they “should supplement internal capital
generation by seeking opportunities to raise capital
externally.” It added that efforts to raise capital would be
helped by steps “to reduce uncertainty about valuations of on-
balance-sheet assets.”  Today’s record showed the scope of the 11-member panel’s
discussion at its quarterly meeting. A statement by the central
bank published three days ago showed the FPC maintaining its
recommendations from June for capital raising to stave off
threats to the financial system posed by the euro-zone crisis.  Banks’ earnings had been constrained by “the impact of
weak economic activity and redress for mis-selling financial
products and other conduct issues,” the record showed. “These
factors were likely to provide a continuing drag on banks’
earnings, diminishing their ability to build capital
internally.”  Five Recommendations  The panel unveiled five recommendations in June to enhance
the safety of Britain’s banking system, saying that capital
buffers may need to temporarily exceed requirements implied by
the transition to Basel III standards. The panel said regulators
should make clearer that banks can use liquid asset buffers in
the event of stress.  The committee noted that its work had aimed to “increase
the resilience of the U.K. banking system to the current
exceptional threats emanating from the euro area; and, subject
to that, supporting the availability of credit to the U.K.
economy during the current slowdown.” The record of this
month’s meeting said “there was a range of views amongst
committee members about the existence, strength and timing of
any tradeoff between these aims.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  