-- BofA Expects U.A.E. Central Bank to Extend New Lending Rules
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-09-27T14:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/bofa-expects-uae-central-bank-to-extend-loan-rules-by-6-months.html
The United Arab Emirates’ central
bank may extend a deadline by six months for banks to comply
with new rules that limit lending to governments and its
entities, Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit said.  “We expect the start of implementation to be extended by
another six months to end of the first quarter of 2013, and
include exceptions that would not derail the overall Dubai
government-related entities’ refinancing process,” analyst
Jean-Michel Saliba wrote in research note dated today.  The  U.A.E. central bank  said April 4 banks in the U.A.E.
must not lend more than 100 percent of their capital to local
governments and the same to government-related entities known as
GREs to help reduce risk. Banks had until Sept. 30 to comply.
There was no limit under previous rules.  The U.A.E. central bank is holding separate discussions
with each bank about the rules, a spokesman for  Emirates NBD
PJSC (EMIRATES) , who declined to be identified because of company policy,
said. The Emirates Banks Association, a body representing U.A.E.
banks, led discussions with the central bank earlier, although
talks are being held separately with each bank about the rules
due to differences with each bank’s portfolio, he said.  The exposure of Emirates NBD PJSC, the U.A.E.’s biggest
bank by assets, to sovereign and quasi-sovereign clients is 192
percent of regulatory capital, while that of  National Bank of
Abu Dhabi PJSC  and  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB) , the second-
and third-biggest U.A.E. lenders, are 199 percent and 108
percent, according to Deutsche Bank AG estimates in April.  “We have raised some major issues on the substance of the
circular and still await the central bank’s response,” National
Bank of  Abu Dhabi  said in an e-mail yesterday. “Given the 30
September date is imminent we have asked the central bank for an
extension” for discussions to take place, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  