-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise on Bank’s Fiscal Policy View; Real Gains
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-09-27T21:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/brazil-swap-rates-rise-on-bank-s-fiscal-policy-view-real-gains.html
Brazil ’s swap rates rose after the
central bank said government efforts to revive growth through
tax breaks and increased expenditures have stoked inflation,
damping speculation borrowing costs will be further reduced.  Swap rates on contracts due in January increased two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.28 percent. The real
advanced for the first time in five days, gaining 0.3 percent to
2.0296 per  U.S. dollar , paring its drop in the third quarter to
1 percent.  The balance of risks for inflation moved to neutral from
favorable while fiscal policy shifted from neutral to “slightly
expansionary,” the central bank said today in a quarterly
report. It raised its 2012 consumer inflation forecast to 5.2
percent from 4.7 percent.  “I found the report to be hawkish,”  Solange Srour , the
chief economist at BNY Mellon Arx Investimentos, said in a phone
interview from  Rio de Janeiro . “It suggests the borrowing cost
cutting cycle has ended.”  Any future cuts in the target lending rate must be carried
out with “maximum parsimony,” the central bank said,
reiterating language used at its August meeting when it cut the
Selic by a half-percentage point to a record low 7.5 percent.  Brazil’s September IGP-M index of producer, consumer and
construction costs rose 0.97 percent from a month earlier, the
Getulio Vargas Foundation reported today. The median forecast of
33 economists in a survey by Bloomberg was for a 0.94 percent
increase.  The central bank said it will miss its inflation target for
a second straight year as policy makers focus on spurring a
recovery of the world’s largest emerging economy after  China .  Inflation Outlook  A boost in commodity prices means inflation is unlikely to
converge to the 4.5 percent target until the third quarter of
2013, Carlos Hamilton, the bank’s economic policy director, told
reporters in Brasilia. As recently as July, central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said inflation would slow to the
midpoint of 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent by year-end.  The central bank has cut the target rate by 5 percentage
points since August 2011, the most among the group of 20
nations. The government has trimmed taxes on company payrolls
and  consumer goods , reduced bank reserve requirements and
announced a plan to cut electricity costs.  Trading in swap rates shows investors are divided on
whether the central bank will end its reductions in borrowing
costs or cut by an additional quarter-percentage point at the
November meeting.  China Stimulus  The real gained on speculation China will announce measures
to bolster the equities market after the Shanghai Composite
Index touched a level below 2,000 yesterday. China’s stocks
surged the most in three weeks after Shanghai Securities News
cited speculation that securities regulators will announce 10
measures to boost equities.  “The market becomes more optimistic whenever China, the
U.S. or  Europe  take stimulus measures,” Jose Carlos Amado, a
trader at Renascenca DTVM, said in a phone interview from  Sao
Paulo . “But you never know how long the optimism will last.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in em São Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  