-- Brazil Sugar Awaiting Loading Falls 9% Over the Past Week
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-09-27T09:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/brazil-sugar-awaiting-loading-falls-9-over-the-past-week.html
The amount of sugar waiting to be
loaded onto ships at main ports in Brazil, the world’s largest
producer, fell 9 percent over the past week, according to
shipping agency Williams Servicos Maritimos Ltda.  About 1.78 million metric tons awaited loading yesterday at
the ports of Recife, Paranagua and Santos, the country’s
biggest, data e-mailed yesterday from the Recife, Brazil-based
Williams Brasil showed. That compared with 1.95 million tons a
week earlier, according to the shipping agency.  Vessels headed to  Algeria  would take 178,000 tons of the
raw sweetener and another 43,700 tons were heading to  Nigeria .
Both countries have sugar-refining businesses, buying the raw
sweetener to process it into the white variety. White sugar is
about $113 a ton costlier than the raw sweetener, an increase of
28 percent so far this year,  data  on Bloomberg show.  Refineries are “attracted by high whites premium levels,”
Nick Penney, a senior trader at broker Sucden Financial Ltd. in
London, wrote in a report e-mailed yesterday, referring to the
price difference between white and raw sugars. The white premium
“shows no sign of weakening for the present,” he said.  Sugar output in  Brazil ’s center south, the country’s main
producing region, rose 14 percent from a year earlier to 3.14
million tons in the first half of this month as mostly dry
weather helped harvesting, industry group Unica said on Sept.
25. Rains returned to the region last week, according to Sao
Paulo-based weather forecaster Somar Meteorologia.  “In Santos, the largest sugar export port, we are facing
not just the cold weather, but also rain and wind,” Luiz Carlos
dos Santos Jr., head of sugar brokerage and operations at SA
Commodities in Santos, said in a report dated yesterday. “All
sugar operations are completely idle.”  Rain makes it difficult to load sugar onto vessels as the
product is sold in bulk form and may be damaged by water.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 