-- Brazil Says Too Costly to Bring Inflation to Target in 2012
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-09-27T17:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/brazil-central-bank-says-tax-cuts-contributing-to-inflation-1-.html
Brazil ’s central bank said that
it’ll miss its inflation target for a second straight year as
policy makers focus on spurring a recovery in the world’s
second-biggest emerging market.  The bank’s economic policy director, Carlos Hamilton, said
today that a spike in commodity prices means that inflation is
unlikely to converge to the 4.5 percent target until the third
quarter of 2013. As recently as July, bank President Alexandre Tombini said inflation would slow to the midpoint of the 2.5
percent to 6.5 percent range by year-end despite a jump in food
prices.  “If you fight against a spike in inflation there is a cost
in terms of activity,” Hamilton told reporters in Brasilia.
“We would have three months to turn it around. Theoretically,
this would imply a cost that is too high.”  Hamilton’s comments came after policy makers said in a
report today that government tax breaks and spending packages to
revive growth are contributing to inflation, limiting the room
for additional monetary stimulus. Any future interest-rate cut
must be carried out with “maximum parsimony,” the bank said,
reiterating language used at its August meeting, when it lowered
the Selic rate by a half-point to a record 7.5 percent.  Since August 2011, policy makers have cut the benchmark
rate by 500 basis points to revive economic  growth . The
government has also trimmed taxes on company payrolls and
 consumer goods , reduced bank reserve requirements and announced
a plan to cut electricity costs.  Supply Shocks  The pace of inflation in the world’s second largest
emerging market quickened for a third straight month through
mid-September, to 5.31 percent, even as economic growth remained
sluggish. Economists surveyed by the central bank have increased
their 2012 inflation forecasts 11 weeks in a row as droughts in
Brazil and abroad have driven up food costs.  Such price shocks are “events that are not foreseeable,”
Hamilton said, adding that “it wouldn’t make sense” to raise
borrowing costs now to try and contain such pressures.  The argument echoes one used by the monetary authority in
March 2011, when it cited supply shocks amid a period of
depressed growth as the reason for abandoning its inflation
target for the end of that year.  The bank’s report today said that fiscal policy aimed at
reviving an economy that expanded less than  Japan  and the U.S.
in the second quarter has shifted from a neutral to “slightly
expansionary” position.  “Certainly the space for rate cuts has shrunk,” Hamilton
said.  Growth Forecast  The bank raised to 5.2 percent its forecast for inflation
this year, from 4.7 percent in its June report. While the bank
lowered its growth forecast for 2012 to 1.6 percent, from 2.5
percent in June, the economy will grow 3.3 percent in the second
quarter of 2013, the report said.  “They are paving the way for rates to be kept on hold next
month,”  Neil Shearing , chief  emerging markets  economist at
Capital Economics Ltd., said in a telephone interview from
 London . “There is a definite shift in language. They are less
concerned about growth and more concerned about inflation.”  After the bank issued its report and a gauge of price
increases showed a pace faster than economists expected, traders
reinforced bets that policy makers won’t cut  interest rates  at
their next meeting in October.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2013, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose one basis points to 7.27
percent at 2:34 p.m. local time. The real rose 0.3 percent to
2.0303 per  U.S. dollar .  Brazil’s IGP-M price index, 60 percent of which is weighted
in wholesale goods, rose 0.97 percent in September, the Getulio
Vargas Foundation reported today. The median estimate from 33
economists surveyed was for a 0.94 percent increase.  Reacting Slowly  Since January, economists surveyed by the central bank have
cut 2012 growth expectations by almost two percentage points, to
1.57 percent, as Brazil’s economy has reacted slowly to
government stimulus.  Data from the third quarter signal that growth is
accelerating, the central bank said today.  Consumer confidence 
rose in August for the first time in five months. Retail sales
in July beat economists’ forecasts and rose at the second-
fastest pace since January, and vehicle sales reached a record
high in August as  Fiat SpA (F)  and  Hyundai Motor Co (005380)  announced plans
to build new assembly lines in Brazil.  Rising food prices and personal expenditures caused the
pace of  inflation  to quicken for the third straight month to
5.31 percent through mid-September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net 
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  