-- Brencourt Advisors to Return Capital to Outside Investors
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-09-27T18:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/brencourt-advisors-to-return-capital-to-outside-investors.html
Brencourt Advisors LLC, a  New York- 
based multistrategy hedge fund, plans to wind down its funds by
year-end, return money to outside clients and become a family
office, the firm said in a letter to investors.  The $300 million firm decided to liquidate its funds after
struggling to raise capital, according to a person familiar with
the matter, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  The firm hopes to liquidate all or most of the Brencourt
Multi-Strategy Funds, the Credit Opportunities Funds and the
Merger Arbitrage Fund by the end of the year, William Collins,
Brencourt’s chief investment officer and chief executive
officer, said in the Sept. 14 letter, a copy of which was
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Investors will start receiving their money in October, the
person said. Richard Bani, Brencourt’s chief operating officer,
declined to comment.  Collins, Jim Balakian and Dave Woolf started Brencourt in
2001 with $500 million in assets, Collins said in the letter.
Assets grew to a peak of $2.5 billion at the end of 2006, the
person said.  “I intend to convert Brencourt Advisors to a family office
in 2013,” Collins, 58, said in the letter. “This will allow me
to continue to participate in the profession which I immensely
enjoyed over the last 36 years, while providing me with more
time to spend with my family and pursue my charitable and other
interests.”  Fund Gains  Since inception in 2003, the Brencourt Multi-Strategy Funds
returned more than 8 percent a year, Collins wrote. The
Brencourt Credit Opportunities Funds, which started in 2004,
gained more than 9 percent a year and the Brencourt Merger
Arbitrage Fund, which begun in 2001, rose more than 4 percent a
year.  This year through July, the multistrategy and credit funds
climbed about 3 percent and the  merger fund (MERFX)  advanced almost 3
percent, the person said.  Collins began his career in 1976 as a trainee at Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., he said in the letter. Later, he worked
at Furman Selz, which was acquired by ING Groep NV in 1997.
There, he started his first fund, Taurus Partners, which he ran
from 1993 to 2000.  Brencourt currently has about 20 employees, the person
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  