-- Bridgestone Braces for Lower Tire Prices as China Duties Expire
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-27T23:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/bridgestone-braces-for-lower-tire-prices-as-china-duties-expire.html
Tires are poised to get cheaper.  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , the world’s largest maker of tires, is
preparing for increased competition after a 25 percent punitive
duty imposed by the U.S. against Chinese tires expired Sept. 26,
Yuki Kawasoe, a spokesman at the Tokyo-based company, said
yesterday. China’s Hangzhou Zhongce Rubber Co., the nation’s
largest tiremaker, said it’s ready to boost its exports to the
U.S., said Ni Guoliang, head of the company’s general office.  The end of the tariffs means Chinese producers will be able
to compete on a level playing field in the U.S. for the first
time in three years. President  Barack Obama  began imposing
tariffs on $1.8 billion of Chinese auto tires since 2009, acting
on a labor union complaint that surging imports were pushing
U.S. factory workers out of jobs.  “With the tariff gone, Chinese tiremakers will be able to
increase exports to the U.S.,” said Lee Sang Hyun, an
automotive analyst at  NH Investment & Securities Co. (016420)  in  Seoul .
“This, in turn, will ease the hyper competitiveness in the
Chinese market.”  For Chinese tiremakers such as closely held Hangzhou
Zhongce, which faced a 35 percent tariff in 2009 that was
lowered by 5 percentage points each year, the end of the
punitive duties mean higher overseas sales. Exports to the U.S.
may recover to about 70 percent of levels last seen in 2008,
said Hangzhou Zhongce’s Ni.  Chinese Prepare  “We’ve been preparing for the tariff expiration for some
time,” Ni said in a phone interview yesterday.  The end of tariffs is “bullish” for  China ’s tire
industry, said Li Zhongxing, vice general manager at Qingdao
Segrift International Logistics Co., a unit of Shanghai-traded
 Sailun Co. (601058)  Most passenger-car tire plants are already running at
full capacity catering to domestic demand, limiting their
ability to boost production for exports, Li said.  Keith Price, a spokesman for Akron, Ohio-based  Goodyear
Tire & Rubber Co. (GT) , the largest U.S. tiremaker, couldn’t be
reached for comment.  The tariffs had driven up industry prices by 10 percent to
15 percent and mainly benefited South Korean tire makers, Bret Jordan, an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in Boston, wrote in a
report this week.  “There will be an impact on the entire market,” Kawasoe
at Bridgestone said. “We will work to boost efficiency and cut
costs to maintain competitiveness.”  Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd. (5110) , Japan’s third-largest
tiremaker, has no plans at present to introduce discounts or
cheaper products to counter the expected increase in competition
from Chinese exports, said Kumiko Makino, a spokeswoman for the
Japanese company.  The tiremaker, which gets about 12 percent of its sales
from  North America , plans to maintain its competitiveness with
“quality products and services,” Makino said, without
elaborating.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  