-- Build America’s First Deal Saves Schools $1.25 Million
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-09-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/build-america-mutual-insures-first-municipal-bond-offering-1-.html
Build America Mutual Assurance Co.
became the first new insurer to back local-government debt since
 Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway (BRK/A)  Assurance Corp. in 2007,
saving Pennsylvania taxpayers more than $1 million in its debut.  The company is standing behind a $10 million deal by York
Suburban School District, with  RBC Capital Markets  managing the
issue, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The insurance lowered
borrowing costs by about $1.25 million on a present-value basis,
said Dennis Younkin, the district’s director of finance and
support services.  “This was really an ideal candidate to go to market with
BAM,” said Ken Friedrich, manager of municipal sales trading
and syndication at RBC in New York. “We’ve seen evidence of a
need for another insurer in the marketplace and we definitely
think there is interest.”  Issuers buy insurance to piggy-back on the companies’
higher credit ratings. Insured municipal debt made up a record
57 percent of the market in 2005, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. That fell to about 4 percent after the 2008
financial crisis cost insurers their AAA grades and left Assured
Guaranty Municipal Corp. as the sole company writing policies.  Build America Mutual is rated AA by  Standard & Poor’s , its
third-highest ranking. The company’s entrance may lead to a re-
emergence of bond insurance that could climb to 30 percent of
new sales, David Veno, an analyst at S&P, wrote in a July 23
report.  First Deal  “We are pleased to have completed our first insured
transaction,” Sean McCarthy, the chief executive officer of the
New York-based company, said in a statement. “We look forward
to providing insurance for many similar bond issues in the
months and years ahead.”  The York Suburban School District represents the company’s
focus on “small to medium-sized issuers of general-obligation
or essential public-purpose revenue bonds,” McCarthy said.  S&P rates the school district A, sixth-highest, according
to a Sept. 10 report. Its “expenditures have begun to outpace
revenues and are ultimately diminishing the district’s once-good
reserve levels,” the company said.  For Build America Mutual, the Pennsylvania deal “is right
in their wheelhouse,” said Alan Schankel, head of fixed-income
research in Philadelphia at Janney Montgomery Scott. Still, it
will take deals of greater size to assess the benefit of the
insurance, he said.  ‘Different Lens’  The portion of the school district’s sale maturing in 2022
was priced to yield 2.23 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That was 0.49 percentage point more than the  interest rate 
on benchmark 10-year AAA  securities , the data show.  Investors will be watching how the deal prices, said
Stephen Winterstein, chief municipal strategist at Wilmington
Trust Investment Advisors, which manages about $4 billion of
munis. Insured local-government debt will be looked at “through
a different lens now,” he said in an interview.  Investors may need more than the four years since the
credit crisis to regain confidence in bond insurance, said
Winterstein, whose Wilmington, Delaware-based company is about
75 miles (121 kilometers) east of York County, where the
district is located.  “The question is: Has the chain of trust been broken
between the investor and the monoline  insurance industry ?” he
said. “My fear is it has been.”  For the York district, the savings prove the worth of
having insurance, Younkin said.  “It’s interesting that this is an issue and we’re the
first ones to actually take advantage,” he said. “We’re OK
with the decision to have insurance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  