-- Bullard Says Fed Should Have Waited on Bond Buying
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-09-27T21:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/bullard-says-fed-should-have-waited-on-bond-buying.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said policy makers should have taken a
“wait-and-see posture” on new bond buying until they had a
clearer picture of the global economy.  “I didn’t really think the committee had a good case for
taking a really big action,” Bullard, who doesn’t vote on
monetary policy this year, said in a CNBC interview today. “I
would have kept it in our pocket for a little bit and really see
if the global slowdown is going to impinge on the U.S. economy
and what the next steps in Europe are going to be.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said Sept. 13 that it
will undertake a third round of quantitative easing by
purchasing mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion
per month until labor markets “improve substantially.” Policy
makers are using unconventional tools to attack a  jobless rate 
stuck above 8 percent since February 2009.  Bullard said “unemployment will continue to tick down”
through the end of the year and that the world’s largest economy
is “still on track” for 2 percent growth in the second half of
2012. A continuation of the global economic slowdown and U.S.
lawmakers failing to address looming tax increases and spending
cuts are key risks to growth, he said.  “It could be that global growth drags down the U.S. and
sends us into a slower growth environment or even recession,”
Bullard said. “I would have wanted to see more data on that and
see how that’s unfolding before we’d taken more action.”  Economy Suffering  Bullard said the economy is suffering while lawmakers delay
agreements to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff of $600 billion
of tax increases and spending cuts that will kick in
automatically at the beginning of next year unless Congress
acts. The  Congressional Budget Office  said in an Aug. 22 report
that fiscal tightening of that magnitude could cause a
recession.  “What’s bad for the  U.S. economy  is that our political
system insists on brinksmanship,” Bullard said. “The
uncertainty around the future of the U.S. economy is a serious
damper” on businesses activity because “they can’t get enough
clarity to know if they should make a major investment.”  The U.S. economy grew less than previously forecast in the
second quarter, the Commerce Department said today. Gross
domestic product expanded at a 1.3 percent pace in the second
quarter after growing at a 2 percent rate from January through
March. The revision, the third estimate for the quarter,
compared with a prior estimate of 1.7 percent.  Bullard  joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of Illinois,
Indiana,  Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and Tennessee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  