-- Bumi Resources Questions Motives of London Probe: Southeast Asia
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2012-09-28T05:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/bumi-resources-questions-motives-of-london-probe-southeast-asia.html
PT Bumi Resources (BUMI)  said a probe by
 Bumi Plc (BUMI) , the London-listed shareholder founded by  Nathaniel Rothschild , and subsequent “leaks” about the matter are an
attempt to damage the Indonesian coal producer.  “The present situation is unfortunate and is an internal
issue between a few shareholders who have chosen to go external,
managing media through innuendo,” Bumi Resources Director
Dileep Srivastava said in an e-mailed statement. “This appears
to be an attempt to damage the inherent value of our business by
orchestrating internal issues and leaking them publicly, for
motives which appear dubious.”  Bumi Plc, owner of 29 percent of the Jakarta-based miner,
said Sept. 24 it began investigating “potential financial and
other irregularities” and hired lawyers to look into a $637
million writedown of development funds and exploration assets.
Moody’s Investors Service changed its outlook on Bumi Resources
to negative from stable on Sept. 25, while  Standard & Poor’s  cut
its long-term rating by a step to BB- the next day.  “The Bumi issue has made foreign investors question
whether corporate governance has become an area of concern once
again,” said Soni Wibowo, vice president at Jakarta-based
Bahana TCW Investment Management, which owns Bumi Resources
shares. “We don’t think it is an issue. Indonesia’s corporate
governance has improved a lot, especially among the big caps.”  Bumi Resources was unchanged at 730 rupiah as of 11:23 a.m.
in Jakarta. The stock has plunged 66 percent this year, compared
with an 11 percent gain in the benchmark index. Bumi Plc fell
5.7 percent to 147.1 pence at the close in  London  yesterday.  Rothschild, Bakrie  The probe is the latest turn in a dispute involving
Rothschild and Indonesia’s Bakrie family since they agreed to a
$3 billion deal in 2010. Relations between Rothschild and Bumi
Co-Chairman Indra Bakrie soured last year after the U.K.-based
financier made public a letter to then-Chief Executive Officer
Ari Hudaya urging a “radical cleaning up” of Bumi Resources.  Bumi Resources said Sept. 26 it hadn’t received any advance
notice about the probe. A spokesman for Bumi Plc in London
declined to comment.  Recent events may hamper Bumi Resources as it seeks to
refinance debt in the next year, S&P and Moody’s said. The
company has $3.95 billion of debt, with $300 million due in the
next year, Moody’s said. S&P put the figure at $400 million.
“There is no significant debt that is due before end-2013, so
we are not sure where the true concern lies,” Srivastava said.  Probe Focus  The investigation will focus on “extensive” development
funds at Bumi Resources and an asset in PT Berau Coal Energy,
another coal holding, which were marked down to zero in the
accounts of Bumi Plc as of Dec. 31, Bumi Plc said. It gave no
figures for the writedown at that time.  The  Indonesia  stock exchange sent letters to Bumi Resources
and Berau yesterday asking them to provide details of the matter
to shareholders by Oct. 2, said Uriep Budhi Prasetyo, a
compliance director at the exchange. The Indonesian capital-
markets regulator said Sept. 26 it would wait for the results of
Bumi Plc’s probe before taking any action.  According to a 2011 annual report published in April, Bumi
Plc wrote down exploration-asset values by $390 million to zero
and cut the value of business development funds by $247 million.  “Whatever actions we take are in the public domain,
approved by shareholders, and shareholders have given discharge
to the company for its accounts to date,” Srivastava said
yesterday in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  