-- Caddy $58,000 XTS Long on Legroom, Short on Performance
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-09-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/caddy-58-000-xts-long-on-legroom-short-on-performance.html
Are you a retiree living in
 Florida ? Looking for a car with big back seats to haul your
community neighbors to the early-bird special? Then  Cadillac (GM)  has
a car for you: the new  XTS  sedan.  To be frank, the release of the XTS is flummoxing. Cadillac
has spent years trying to escape its old-fogey-with-a-cigar
image. To do so, it focused on cars like the CTS, which was
highly stylized and driver focused.  The  CTS  comes as a coupe, sedan and wagon, and in high-
powered “V” versions, appealing to younger, vigorous drivers.
It presented us with a new, more interesting version of what a
Cadillac should be. I bought into the vision. I believed.  So I had high hopes for the XTS, one of the first new
notable releases by Cadillac in some time. Pricing starts at
almost $46,000 for the base model and as much as $60,000 for the
Platinum. I tested the all-wheel-drive Premium that came to
$58,180 with options.  That puts it in the running with a number of excellent
sedans. Though longer than the CTS, the XTS isn’t quite as
executive-sized as the Mercedes-Benz S-Class or Lexus LS.  The fact that it comes standard as a front-wheel-drive
should have been my first spoiler alert. Even the all-wheel-
drive handles with a distinct front-wheel-drive bias.  Know what kind of cars are generally offered as front-
wheel-drive? Cheap ones, small ones and those with no emphasis
on agility or sportiness.  Sportier ATS  Concurrently, Cadillac is also releasing another new model,
the  ATS , a smaller, sportier, rear-wheel-drive sedan aimed at
buyers of the BMW 3 Series. Price points are about $10,000 less
than the XTS.  While I have yet to drive the ATS, I do hope and expect the
driving character to be more beguiling than the lackluster XTS.  The XTS isn’t even interesting to look at. The front grill
has a bit of flash and dazzle, with a thrust-out snout and lots
of shiny chrome. Walk around the car and the silhouette is
blocky and drab, the rear an afterthought. The stance is odd,
with a short hood, a pushed-forward cockpit and a long trunk.  The good news is that the awkward shape lends a very large
rear passenger area, with gobs of leg room. In fact, the back
has the best seats in the house. You’ll also notice how leather
covers nearly every surface of the Premium model. The stitching
is knockout, and the two-tone color palette pleasing.  Right Gear  The engine is decent, too. A 3.6-liter V-6 with 304
horsepower and 264 pound feet of torque, the power feels
generous, even on steep hills, provided you’re in the right
gear.  Yet the six-speed automatic transmission seems only half
interested in getting you to the right gear with any alacrity.
And the feel of the steering wheel is so rubbery as to be
 Flubber -esque. There is no visceral connection to the road
whatsoever.  Drive the XTS hard on curves and it resolutely pushes wide,
the front tires being asked to both power and steer.  The magnetic suspension, a Cadillac specialty, ably absorbs
potholes, but the XTS’s “sport” mode is wishful thinking.
Nobody who loves driving will love this car.  It also feels claustrophobic up front. The front pillars
and roof meet very close to the heads of the front-seat
passengers, as if the sky was falling. Those pillars are thick,
so visibility is somewhat impaired.  Navigation Hope  The one hope for the car, seemingly, is its new navigation
and infotainment user interface, branded the  CUE  system, which
will inevitably spread across the Cadillac line.  It’s as if somebody in a Cadillac committee meeting
suggested, “Why not stick an iPad in there?”  Too many cars have too many buttons (Buick and Porsche are
egregious offenders), so doing away with countless controls in
favor of an iPad-like touch screen seems a good idea.  The CUE touchscreen has iPad-like apps, which control
everything from navigation to climate to audio. There are only a
couple of hard buttons on the console, but they’re sunk into a
blank fascia, and essentially invisible. We get no knobs at all.  The Cadillac controls in the current CTS are impressive.
They fall easily to the hand and are intuitive. Shame to see
that ease chucked out for CUE, which resoundingly favors form
over function.  The main problem is that you have to take your eyes off the
road to choose the app you want, and then continue tapping from
there. You can’t just “feel” your way to the right control as
you can with physical buttons or knobs.  Old School  It’s analogous to walking down the street and trying to
type a message on an old-school BlackBerry with a keyboard,
versus using an iPhone.  You can walk and type with a  Blackberry. (RIMM)  But on the iPhone
touch screen, you’ve got a choice: a garbled message or walk
into a streetlamp.  At first blush, I found the CUE system irritating, perhaps
bordering on dangerous. Even the hard buttons were hard to find
and make work. And I’m a fan of gadgets.  Perhaps with time I’d work it out. Cadillac offers a
tutorial app, after all. But I don’t care to spend any more time
with the car anyhow.  The Cadillac XTS AWD Premium at a Glance  Engine: 3.6-liter V-6 with 304 horsepower and 264 pound
feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 6.8 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 17 city, 26 highway.  Price as tested: $58,180.  Best feature: Big back seats.  Worst features: Lackluster drive and handling, CUE system
is distracting.  Target buyer: The retiree.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on arts,  Scott Reyburn 
on the art market,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology and  Laurie
Muchnick  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 