-- Cameron Woos Brazil Business, Says U.K. Underperforming
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-09-27T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/cameron-woos-brazil-business-says-u-k-underperforming-1-.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  took a
delegation of more than 50 business leaders on a trade mission
to Brazil today, saying the U.K. has been failing to penetrate
the world’s second-largest emerging market.  “We have two of the largest economies in the world and we
both have traditions of trading with partners all over the
world, yet our bilateral trade relationship has been
underperforming.” Cameron told the newspaper  Folha de Sao Paulo 
in an interview published today, according to a transcript
provided by the premier’s office. “The U.K. accounts for only
1.5 percent of Brazil’s imports compared to Germany, who account
for 6.4 percent.”  Among the delegation accompanying Cameron are
representatives of companies including  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   Cameron announced two deals for British companies in Brazil
today, building on the success of this year’s London Olympics.
Blue Cube GB Ltd. won the contract to provide 64,000 seats in
the stadium in the northern Brazilian city of Fortaleza for the
2014 soccer  World Cup , and Vero MLA True Communications will
provide public relations linked to the 2016 Olympics in Rio de
Janeiro.  Backhoe Loaders  Earlier, Cameron opened a new 60 million-pound ($97
million) assembly plant developed by JC Bamford Excavators Ltd.
at Sorocaba, near Sao Paulo, with an annual capacity of 10,000
construction machines, including backhoe loaders and heavy
excavators.  “This visit is about British jobs, British growth and the
British economy, because I want Britain to be tied up to the
fastest growing economies on the planet,” Cameron told
reporters at the plant. “Brazil is now a top-six economy and
this visit is about safeguarding and creating 3,000 jobs back at
home.”  Cameron went on to meet Maria Das Gracas Silva Foster, the
chief executive officer of state-owned  Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PETR4) 
The prime minister sought to convince the energy company to
invest in U.K. companies based on Britain’s 40 years of
experience in the North Sea oil and gas sector.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  Sao Paulo  at  kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  