-- Cameron to Back Clegg Against Own Side on U.K.’s Future in EU
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-09-27T14:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/cameron-to-back-clegg-against-own-side-on-u-k-s-future-in-eu.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
is preparing for a battle over Britain’s relationship with the
European Union that will see him siding with his Liberal
Democrat deputy,  Nick Clegg , against his own lawmakers.  After a Sept. 24 private dinner for business leaders at his
party’s annual conference, Clegg described opponents of
Britain’s membership of the EU as “insular,” “chauvinistic”
and “short-sighted.” Many of those opponents are in Cameron’s
 Conservative Party . More than a quarter of Tory lawmakers defied
the prime minister last year to vote for a referendum on leaving
the EU.  Cameron drew cheers from his own side last year when he
refused to join 25 other nations in an EU-wide treaty to rescue
the euro. For all that, he, like Clegg, says the U.K. should
stay in the union. According to his office, he is planning to
make a speech on the subject soon.  “We are not drifting somewhere hopelessly unanchored in
the mid-Atlantic,” Clegg said in his own speech in Brighton on
 England ’s south coast. “It is an illusion to think that there
is a strategic future, either politically or economically, to
somehow stand aside from the fray. We are condemned by history,
by geography, and by our economic interdependence to our
European neighbors, to seek to lead and not follow, to shape and
not be shaped by events on the European continent.”  Clegg went on to predict that questions over  Europe  “will
bedevil British politics in wholly unpredictable ways” in the
coming months. He cited arguments about the EU budget or the
proposed banking union as possible “catalysts” for a dispute.  EU Budget  One of the most dangerous areas for Cameron in dealing with
his party will come in the EU budget negotiations, slated for
November. At a time when the prime minister is overseeing
austerity at home, any result other than a reduced contribution
for the U.K. will be criticized. Also under negotiation this
year are plans to introduce EU-wide rules on banking, with
Britain arguing its own institutions shouldn’t be covered.  Clegg, who described himself as “arguably the most senior
pro-European politician in Britain today,” warned that as
members of the European single currency develop institutions
that pull them closer together, it may “set off a  chain
reaction  politically within the U.K.,” with some politicians
“and certainly large parts of the press” demanding that
Britain “should somehow try and pull ourselves further and
further away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in  Sao Paulo , Brazil at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  