-- Canadian Dollar Rises as Spain Budget Plan Boosts Risk Appetite
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-27T21:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/canadian-dollar-rises-as-spain-bailout-hope-fuels-risk-appetite.html
Canada ’s dollar snapped a three-day
losing streak versus its U.S. counterpart as investors’ risk
appetite grew with  Spain ’s cabinet approving a budget it said
would ease the nation’s debt crisis.  The Canadian currency rose with stocks as Spanish Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos said the plan exceeds the
recommendations of the European Union. The so-called loonie
gained as crude oil, the nation’s largest export, increased on
speculation the Chinese government will do more to support its
economy. A report due tomorrow is forecast to show Canada’s
gross domestic product grew 0.1 percent in July, down from 0.2
percent in June.  “The market decided this was a good thing for Spain,”
said  Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange trading in
Toronto at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia Capital unit. “The
market decided that it may not be a bad thing if they can avoid
going to the EU for money.”  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 0.5 percent to 98.06
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched 98.60
yesterday, the weakest since Sept. 6. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0199.  The advance extended the Canadian dollar’s monthly gain to
0.5 percent and its quarterly climb to 3.5 percent.  Canadian bonds fell after eight straight days of gains,
matching the longest streak since an 11-day rally ending May 26,
2003, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year security rising as
much as one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
1.76percent. The 2.75 bond maturing in June 2022 fell 11 cents
to C$108.83.  Bond Sales  Canada will add an extra auction of 10-year and 30-year
bonds by the end of March to take advantage of  interest rates  at
almost record lows.  The size of the bond auctions may also be increased
depending on market conditions, the  Bank of Canada , which
handles debt-market operations for the federal government, said
on its website today. Offers to buy 30-year bonds back from
investors for cash will be halted until end of the fiscal year,
the central bank said.  The euro rose from a two-week low as Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy ’s cabinet approved a new tax on lottery winnings
and a cut in ministries’ spending to shrink the region’s third-
biggest budget deficit. The 2013 target is 4.5 percent of gross
domestic product compared with a 6.3 percent goal for this year.  “If euro can claw its way over $1.29, we may see a little
extension below 98 for dollar-Canada,” said  Scotia Capital ’s
Butler. The euro climbed 0.3 percent to 1.29.  Stocks, Oil  U.S. stocks advanced, snapping a five-day decline for the
Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX) , as American jobless claims last
week fell less than forecast. The gauge gained 1 percent.  Crude-oil futures rose from an eight-week low, adding 2.6
percent to $92.32 in New York after rising as much as 2.7
percent, as a report showed China’s industrial profits fell for
a fifth month, increasing speculation the government will add
stimulus to spur growth.  “We’re seeing a rebound in risk appetite,” Eimear Daly, a
currency-market analyst at Monex Europe Ltd. in  London , said in
a phone interview.  Canada’s dollar has strengthened 1.5 percent this year
against nine developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The greenback has dropped
2.9 percent, with the yen tumbling 3.9 percent to lead
decliners. The New Zealand dollar’s 4.6 percent rise leads
gainers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in  New York  at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  