-- Canada Natural Gas Rises Following Release of U.S. Storage Data
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2012-09-27T20:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/canada-natural-gas-rises-following-release-of-u-s-storage-data.html
Canadian natural gas prices rose,
following U.S. futures higher, after the Energy Department
reported stockpiles of the fuel increased by 80 billion cubic
feet last week to 3.576 trillion.  October gas in  Alberta  rose 1.4 percent as department data
showed the weekly storage injection was above the five-year
seasonal average of 76 billion cubic feet while below last
year’s 104 billion, keeping inventories at record highs for this
time of year. U.S. gas prices advanced 2.6 percent to the most
in 2012.  “We’re sort of in a new situation with storage levels
remaining this high over the whole year,” said Brad Florer, a
trader at Kottke Associates LLC in Louisville,  Kentucky . Weather
and economic data over the next few weeks will determine
“whether we can maintain some strength above $3,” he said.  Alberta gas for October delivery rose 3.5 cents to C$2.525
per gigajoule ($2.44 per million British thermal units) as of
3:25 p.m. New York time.  Natural gas for November delivery on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  rose 8.2 cents to settle at $3.297 per
million British thermal units, the highest level since Dec. 9.  Above-average temperatures are expected for  California  and
the western halves of the U.S. and  Canada  this weekend and early
next week, with temperatures possibly reaching 100 Fahrenheit
(38 Celsius) in California, according to  Commodity Weather Group
LLC  of Bethesda,  Maryland . In the first week of October, a cold
front is expected to bring below-normal temperatures to western
Canada, then shift to the U.S. Midwest Oct. 7-11.  Cooling Demand  U.S. cooling demand will be 31 percent above the seasonal
average over the next seven days and heating demand will be 62
percent below normal, Weather Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri ,
said today.  Net Canadian gas exports to the U.S. averaged 5.57 billion
cubic feet per day in the seven days ended Sept. 20, according
to data collected by LCI Energy Insight, an El Paso, Texas
energy advisory firm.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output from most of Canada’s gas wells, was 15.92 billion cubic
feet at 2:30 p.m.  New York  time, 300 million below target.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.09 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.98 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s  British Columbia system 
at Kingsgate was 1.05 billion cubic feet. The system was
forecast to carry 1.81 billion cubic feet today. Estimated
capacity was 2.87 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy Corp.’s  British Columbia
system, which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia
for delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled
2.78 billion cubic feet at 2:35 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  