-- Capriles Packs Home Stadium of Chavez’s Favorite Baseball Team
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-09-28T04:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/capriles-packs-stadium-of-chavez-s-favorite-team-in-rally.html
Venezuela’s opposition candidate
Henrique Capriles Radonski filled the baseball stadium of
President  Hugo Chavez ’s favorite team yesterday in a rally
marking the close of his campaign in the central state of
Carabobo.  Capriles supporters packed the stands and field of the Jose
Bernardo Perez stadium in the state capital  Valencia , the home
of the  Navegantes del Magallanes  baseball team with seating
capacity of 15,000 people, waving flags and holding umbrellas
under a light rain.  “The president is like a pitcher whose arm is tired,”
Capriles said in a speech carried on Globovision Network. “We
need a new one with a fresh arm to win the game.”  Capriles is holding large rallies in 20 states during 11
days to close his campaign that has seen him visit more than 250
towns and build momentum after making house-to-house visits to
offer his message of unity, progress and private investment.
Capriles is ahead in several polls while trailing by as much as
15 percentage points in others as he tries to unseat Chavez on
Oct. 7.  “They say that if I win that I’ll take away benefits, but
the only one who has expropriated things from you is this
government,” Capriles said. “After visiting all around our
 Venezuela , I don’t have a doubt that we will win.”  The speech ending with the crowd tossing confetti all
around and a firework display.  ‘Eternal Rival’  Capriles, a 40-year-old former governor of Miranda, has
played up his youth and fitness to offer a stark contrast to the
condition of his 58-year-old opponent who is coming off three
operations related to an unknown cancer in the past 15 months.  Chavez says he’s recovered from his illness and prepared to
win by “knock out” extending his near 14-year rule through
2019.  The president often talks about his support for one of
Venezuela’s top baseball clubs, Magallanes, and recalls his
aspirations to pitch for the team when he was younger.  Capriles, who is from Caracas, supports the eternal rival
of Magallanes, the  Leones de Caracas .  “Not even in a Caracas-Magallanes game have there been so
many people,” Capriles told the crowd yesterday.  At an evening news conference in Caracas, the president
remained upbeat and buoyant.  “Chavez will win on Oct. 7,” the president told
reporters. “It’s impossible for them to win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  