-- Cerberus Plan to Sell a Stake Triggers Drop in Aozora Shares
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2012-09-27T09:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/cerberus-to-sell-aozora-bank-shares-as-lender-s-ceo-steps-down.html
Aozora Bank Ltd. (8304) , the Japanese bank
controlled by Cerberus Capital Management LP, fell the most in a
year in Tokyo trading after the lender said the U.S. private-
equity firm plans to sell a stake.  Shares of Aozora declined 9 percent to 232 yen at the close.
Aozora didn’t disclose the size of the stake to be sold in a
filing to the exchange. Chief Executive Officer Brian Prince
will become chairman, and his current role will be filled by
Shinsuke Baba, it also said.  The proposed sale by Cerberus, Aozora’s biggest  shareholder ,
sparked concern about a change of control amid efforts by Prince
to pay 227.6 billion yen ($2.9 billion) to taxpayers following a
bailout, as well as buy back stock and pay a bigger percentage
of profit as dividends. The timing and size of the proposed sale
will be determined by market conditions, the bank said today.  “This raises uncertainty about Aozora’s business strategy
and direction,” said Toyoki Sameshima, a Tokyo-based analyst at
BNP Paribas SA. “The announcement about Prince stepping down is
also another factor; he has been supported by investors overseas
as a decisive leader.”  Prince is stepping down as CEO and president for personal
reasons, Aozora said. Shareholders approved the appointments of
Baba and Prince at a meeting today. They also endorsed the
proposed repayment of bailout funds and common share buyback,
the bank said in a statement after the close of trading.  Exit Plan  Cerberus plans to sell the portion of its 821 million
shares through Aozora’s buyback program as the “first step in a
disciplined and orderly process” for the disposal of its stake
over time, the Japanese bank said. It is considering selling the
rest after the repurchase plan begins, either in the market or
private transactions, according to the statement. The stake is
valued at 190 billion yen based on today’s closing price.  “Cerberus’s sale plans are meshing into Aozora’s capital
restructuring,” David Threadgold, a Tokyo-based analyst at
Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc., said on Bloomberg Television.
“Cerberus is now looking to take advantage of the circumstances
that Aozora has created to plan its own exit.”  The potential supply of stock from Cerberus is greater than
the demand from the outstanding shares that the Tokyo-based bank
plans to buy back, weighing on the stock, Threadgold said.  Public Funds  Under Prince’s plan unveiled last month, the bank will
spend as much as 100 billion yen to buy back 330 million common
shares, or 20 percent of the total, over a year starting from
Oct. 1. It will repay 22.7 billion yen of public funds through
the repurchase of 44.2 million preferred stocks from the state-
run Deposit Insurance Corp. of  Japan , Aozora said on Aug. 27.  The bank will also raise  dividend payouts  on common shares
to 40 percent of profit from about 30 percent.  Aozora’s predecessor, Nippon Credit Bank, failed in 1998 as
bad loans mounted amid a nationwide banking crisis following the
collapse of an asset bubble. After being temporarily
nationalized, the bank was privatized again in 2000.  Baba, 58, joined Nippon Credit Bank in 1977 and has been
focused on  investment banking . A Tokyo University graduate, he
was appointed as deputy president of Aozora in 2008.  “I plan to build on the foundations that Chairman Prince
laid and redouble our retail and corporate sales efforts,” Baba
said at a press conference.  Cerberus, based in  New York , took control of Aozora in 2003.
The bank, which had traditionally depended on selling debenture
bonds for funding rather than deposits, became a commercial
lender in 2006.  “Aozora will still be attractive to investors based on the
dividend plan, although this proposed share sale is putting
near-term downward pressure on the stock,” said Shinichi Ina, a
Tokyo-based analyst at UBS AG. “Prince just got the repayment
plan in shape, taking his bank to a major turning point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  