-- Chelsea’s John Terry Is Suspended Four Games for Racial Abuse
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-09-27T15:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/chelsea-s-terry-suspended-four-games-for-racial-abuse-f-a-says.html
Chelsea captain  John Terry  was
suspended for four games by  England ’s Football Association for
racially abusing Queens Park Rangers’ Anton Ferdinand in a game
last season.  Terry, 31, was also fined 220,000 pounds ($356,000) by the
F.A.’s independent regulatory commission, English soccer’s
governing body said in  a statement  that didn’t disclose the
reasoning for the ruling.  A  London  court on July 13 acquitted Terry of racial abuse
against Ferdinand in the Oct. 23, 2011 match at QPR’s Loftus
Road stadium.  “Mr. Terry is disappointed that the F.A. regulatory
commission has reached a different conclusion to the clear not
guilty verdict of a court of law,” Terry’s representatives
Elite Management said in a statement. “He has asked for the
detailed written reasons of the decision and will consider them
carefully before deciding whether to lodge an appeal.”  Terry has 14 days after receiving the written decision to
appeal, the F.A. said. Chelsea said in a statement on its
website it “respects” the F.A.’s ruling, adding that further
comment would be inappropriate.  Terry was charged by the F.A. with using “abusive and/or
insulting words and/or behavior” that “included a reference to
the ethnic origin and/or color and/or race of Anton Ferdinand.”
He denied the charge and requested a personal hearing, which was
held over the past four days.  Sarcasm Claim  The Chelsea captain was accused of cursing at Ferdinand,
with Terry saying he thought he was being accusing of already
having made the comment. Terry testified he repeated it back in
a sarcastic way and added an additional insult.  Footage of the alleged abuse first surfaced minutes after
the match that Chelsea won 1-0. Fabio Capello quit as coach of
England’s soccer team in February when the F.A. stripped Terry
of the national team captaincy.  The F.A. decision to pursue its own charges led Terry to
announce his retirement from international soccer four days ago,
saying his position with the national team was untenable. He
most recently represented England in a 5-0 World Cup qualifying
win against Moldova on Sept. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 