-- Chilean Peso Declines After Vergara Remarks on Capital Controls
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-09-27T16:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/chilean-peso-gains-as-chinese-stimulus-expectations-boost-copper.html
Chile ’s peso slid after central
bank President Rodrigo Vergara raised the prospect of  capital
controls  to mitigate the flood of dollars from the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s quantitative easing program.  The peso depreciated 0.1 percent to 471.25 per dollar. It
had earlier appreciated to 468.35 per dollar as copper gained in
 New York .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to fight unemployment
by buying $40 billion of mortgage bonds a month may mean
emerging market currencies appreciate, producing imbalances in
small, open economies, Vergara said. While Chile’s central bank
can buy dollars or introduce capital controls, premature
intervention risked being ineffective, he told a conference in
Santiago.  “The remark about being wary of premature intervention is
a sign that they are definitely studying it,” said Felipe Alarcon, an economist at Banco de Credito & Inversiones in
Santiago who used to work at the central bank. “With the QE3
comment it’s a chronicle of a death foretold. We can’t fight
with conventional measures against the tide of dollars coming
our way.”  Selling local currency bonds to offset the extra money
being added to the financial system in a currency intervention
could push up the cost of the measure, eating into the central
bank’s balance sheet, Vergara said. His remarks were posted on
the  central bank’s website .  Copper rose on speculation sliding profits for industrial
companies will spur stimulus measures in  China , the world’s
largest consumer of the metal and the biggest buyer of Chilean
copper.  Copper for December delivery rose 1 percent to $3.746 a
pound on the Comex in New York.  International investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
increased their short peso position to $9.2 billion on Sept. 25
from $8.8 billion a day earlier, according to central bank data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  