-- China Stocks Jump Most in Three Weeks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-27T09:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/china-stock-futures-rise-on-prospect-of-market-support-measures.html
China’s stocks  jumped the most in
three weeks on speculation the government will announce measures
to bolster the equities market after the  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP) 
Index fell below the 2,000 level yesterday.  The  Shanghai  Composite rose 2.6 percent to 2,056.32 at the
close. It pared a rally of as much as 3.2 percent after a person
with direct knowledge of the situation said the  China  Securities
Regulatory Commission will hold a regular press briefing at 4
p.m. and has no plans to announce a halt on initial public
offerings. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  added 3.1 percent to 2,251.72.  China’s stocks surged in the afternoon after the Shanghai
Securities News, operated by the Xinhua News Agency, said there
was speculation the CSRC would announce 10 measures to boost
equities while Zheshang Securities Co. said there was market
talk the regulator might suspend IPOs.  Citic Securities Co. (600030)  and
China Shenhua Energy Co. led a rally for brokerages and energy
producers. China’s markets will be shut next week for holidays.  “Stocks are up because of the speculation that there’s an
announcement about IPO reform later at 4 p.m.,” said Wei Wei,
an analyst at West China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Even if
it is true, it will be a short-term rally because the main issue
is economic growth. After reaching new lows yesterday, investors
are also finding excuses to buy today and make quick profit
before the last day of trading tomorrow.”  The Shanghai index briefly fell below the 2,000 level for
the first time in three years yesterday, when trading volume
plunged 35 percent from the daily average this year. China’s
stocks have fallen because of “low” investor confidence, share
oversupply and concerns about corporate governance, Dennis Lim,
who helps manage $48 billion of emerging-market funds at
Templeton Asset Management Ltd., said yesterday.  IPO Sales  “There’s speculation that the securities regulator may do
something to reform IPO sales and suspend IPO sales for a
while,” said Wang Weijun, a strategist at Zheshang Securities
in Shanghai.  After the market close, the China Securities Journal
reported the CSRC issued information security rules for the
securities and futures industry. There’s definitely no halting
of IPOs, the 21st Century Business Herald reported on its
website, citing an unidentified official from the CSRC.  So far this year, the CSRC has expedited approvals of
foreign investors, cut stock-trading fees by 25 percent and
allowed individual investors to advise on pricing IPO shares as
part of efforts to boost the market.  Citic Securities, China’s biggest listed brokerage, jumped
4.9 percent to 11.54  yuan . Haitong Securities Co., the second
largest, climbed 6.3 percent to 9.42 yuan. GF Securities Co.,
the third biggest, gained 6.4 percent to 13.40 yuan.  Cyclicals Rebound  Investors should increase their stock holdings as market-
boosting measures may be introduced should the Shanghai index
stay below 2,000, Ling Peng, a strategist at Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities Co., said in a note today. The index may end higher
in October, he said, recommending brokerage, insurance and
cyclical stocks.  Anhui Conch Cement Co., the nation’s biggest cement maker,
gained 3.2 percent to 15.71 yuan. Zoomlion Heavy Industry
Science and Technology Co., China’s second-biggest maker of
construction equipment, added 4 percent to 8.43 yuan. China
Shenhua, the nation’s largest coal producer, rallied 3.7 percent
to 22.51 yuan.  The time for a rebound in stocks is coming as the
September-to-November period is the traditional peak season for
production, Zhang Yidong, an analyst at Industrial Securities,
wrote in a report dated yesterday. Industrial Securities was
ranked No. 1 for the equity strategy research by the New Fortune
magazine last year.  Smallcap Rally  Downstream demand is improving as cement, steel,  iron ore 
and coal prices have started to stabilize and rebound, and
liquidity may improve next month, according to the report.  The People’s Bank of China added a record net 365 billion
yuan ($57.9 billion) to the financial system this week as cash
demand rises before a weeklong holiday starting Oct. 1.  Beijing Toread Outdoor Products Co. (300005)  rose 5 percent to 17.16
yuan, pacing an advance for companies in the smallcap ChiNext
index, after the China Securities Journal said major
stockholders offered to extend the period for when they must
hold shares to ease oversupply.  Major shareholders of 32 ChiNext companies have offered to
extend the lockups on the holdings, the China Securities Journal
reported today, citing statements. The extension covers 2.78
billion shares worth about 38.4 billion yuan and major holders
either promised not to cut stake this year or offered to extend
the lockups, it said.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in  Hong Kong  added 1.3 percent today. The  Bloomberg
China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed
Chinese companies, fell 0.6 percent in  New York  yesterday.  Poor Sentiment  The Shanghai Composite has lost 7.6 percent this quarter,
the most in a year, and is the worst performer among global
markets after Cyprus and Mongolia. It’s valued at 9.5 times
estimated earnings, compared with the average of 17.9 since
Bloomberg began compiling the  weekly data  in 2006.  China’s dispute with  Japan  over contested islands in the
 East China Sea , the effect of  Europe ’s debt crisis on China
exports and policy uncertainty before a change of leadership
later this year have also hurt investor sentiment. A report
today showed Chinese industrial companies’ profits dropped for a
fifth month in August.  Net income for Chinese industrial companies fell 6.2
percent from a year earlier to 381.2 billion yuan, the National
Bureau of Statistics said today in Beijing. That compares with a
5.4 percent decline in July and a 1.7 percent slide in June.  Today’s report may increase pressure on Premier  Wen Jiabao 
to step up easing measures as risks grow that annual expansion
in the world’s second-biggest economy will be the weakest in 22
years. The People’s Bank of China has cut rates twice since
early June and lowered lenders’ reserve requirement ratios three
times from last November.  --Zhang Shidong. With assistance from Weiyi Lim in  Singapore .
Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  