-- China-Bashing in the Campaign Could Backfire
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-27T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/china-bashing-in-the-campaign-could-backfire.html
The Chinese Communist Party will
open its 18th congress on Oct. 10. Or not. It will reduce the
number of members on its powerful Politburo Standing Committee
from nine to seven. Or not. A back injury forced Vice President
Xi Jinping, who is expected to succeed President  Hu Jintao  as
the head of the party at the congress, to drop out of sight for
almost two weeks. Or not.  The murkiness of leadership politics in the world’s most
populous nation and its second biggest economy and military
spender should give any observer pause. Together with the
violent demonstrations, tit-for-tat diplomatic protests, and
standoffs at sea that have marked the country’s dispute with
Japan over some rocky isles in the  East China Sea , it highlights
the challenges of dealing with a rising and sometimes volatile
 China . It also should send a note of caution to those who would
descend into China-bashing on the U.S. campaign trail.  The new Chinese leaders who will be anointed at the
congress doubtless hoped that the Year of the Dragon would offer
more promise. Instead, with the fall of former Politburo member
and Chongqing party boss  Bo Xilai , they’ve had to deal with the
ugliest political scandal in a generation. And thanks in part to
the fallout from the global financial crisis, they are coming
into power with the slowest rate of  economic growth  since  Deng Xiaoping  first took the padlocks off  China’s economy  three
decades ago. No wonder they’ve used nationalism to rally the
public, and cracked down on information leaks that could further
taint the top echelons of the Communist Party.  Some Expectations  How should the outside world, especially the U.S., deal
with a tetchy Chinese leadership that has a lot on its mind?  First, don’t hold your breath waiting for political
reforms. Premier  Wen Jiabao  has called for reforms many times,
but his has been a voice in the wilderness -- if indeed he is
not simply, as one dissident  put it , “China’s greatest actor.”
The so-called Wukan model, named after a village in  Guangdong
province  that won the right to hold elections with secret
ballots after a series of protests, is not likely to spread
quickly (especially because what the villagers actually  gained 
is unclear).  At the same time, don’t give up on reform. “Mass
incidents,” like those that took place in Guangdong, doubled
from 2006 to 2010 to 180,000, and are animating reformers.
Another hopeful trend: 30 years ago, the Politburo was all but
devoid of members with a university degree; today, any member
without one, or without a child who had studied overseas, would
be the exception.  Second, expect China to try to muddle through its slowdown
without resorting to a large stimulus package. The 4 trillion
 yuan  ($630 billion) that it pumped into the economy in 2008 fed
inflation and credit and property bubbles. China can undertake
plenty of measures that would nudge the economy while helping
its people -- putting more money, for example, into public goods
such as  health  and education, where China lags global norms. Yet
barring a protracted growth slump, the backgrounds of incoming
General Secretary  Xi Jinping  or likely Premier  Li Keqiang  don’t
suggest that they’ll come to work with much appetite for bold
policy experiments.  Third, don’t let “strategic distrust,” to quote one recent
prominent  study , cast a pall over the U.S.-China relationship.
China’s tough talk on territorial disputes and calculated
displays of nationalist fervor have stirred concerns about its
trajectory. (Less understandably, so has China’s commissioning
of an out-of-date, former-Soviet  aircraft carrier , its first.)
Meanwhile, even as the U.S. pivot to Asia represents a necessary
rebalancing of its military, economic and diplomatic resources
after a decade of conflict in Iraq and Afghanistan, it also
checks off the boxes on China’s most paranoid fantasies of
encirclement and containment.  Crucial Details  The distrust is magnified by China’s role as an economic
punching bag in the presidential campaign. In their attacks on
China for taking jobs from U.S. workers, both President  Barack Obama  and Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  have conveniently
ignored some crucial details: Processing exports from other
countries (such as Japan and Korea) accounts for about half of
China’s trade volume, and the penalties and remedies they
propose would probably do more to hurt consumers and U.S.
businesses than to create good jobs.  The fact is, the economies of the U.S. and China are too
intertwined to afford the real-world consequences of such
dishonest debates. So are the two countries’ larger fortunes,
from curbing greenhouse-gas emissions to curtailing the spread
of nuclear weapons.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  made that point in a  speech 
last week to Chinese military students, in which he rightly
called for greater military-to-military exchanges and invited
China to join naval exercises off the coast of Hawaii in 2014.
Such exchanges are a good way to dispel mistrust, and to create
the kind of atmosphere where serious disagreements and issues --
cyberespionage, for example -- can be constructively addressed.  On trade, the U.S. needs to choose its punitive targets
wisely. As David Chavern, the executive vice president of the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, told  Bloomberg News  yesterday in
opposing Romney’s plan to designate China as a currency
manipulator, “Picking fights with trading partners probably
isn’t the best way to have expansion of the global trading
system.”  If you want Americans to use more clean energy, for
example, a better approach than whacking the Chinese for
subsidizing cheap solar panels might be to conclude a clean
energy trade agreement. And when possible, the U.S. should bring
other parties into its trade disagreements with China, using the
 World Trade Organization  to pursue complaints while also giving
it the resources to  resolve  them more speedily. Such an approach
would allow the U.S. to tap the support of China’s other trading
partners (who often share the same complaints) and reinforces
the rules-based  consensus  on behalf of international trade
(which China’s leaders can then use to sell difficult
concessions back home).  There are plenty of historical  analogies  about China’s
remarkable rise, some of which lead to more alarming predictions
than others. At this critical juncture, the best way to keep the
worst from coming true is to cut China some slack.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Wheatley review of Libor ;
 Jonathan Alter  on  fixing campaign finance ; Stephen L. Carter on
 Washington’s outsize wealth ; William Pesek on bringing the
 Olympics to Japan ;  Jonathan Weil  on  giving banks public grades 
as cities do with restaurants;  Steven Greenhut  on Chicago’s
challenge to  California on unions ; Lawrence Sheets on the folly
of ignoring  Georgia’s elections .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 