-- Chinese Industrial Profits Fall 6.2% in Fifth Straight Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-27T03:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/chinese-industrial-profits-fall-6-2-in-fifth-consecutive-drop.html
Chinese industrial companies’
profits dropped for a fifth month in August, adding to signs the
nation’s economic slowdown is extending into a seventh quarter.  Net income fell 6.2 percent from a year earlier to 381.2
billion  yuan  ($60.4 billion), the  National Bureau of Statistics 
said today in Beijing. That’s the fastest drop this year and
compares with a 5.4 percent decline in July and a 1.7 percent
slide in June.  Today’s report may increase pressure on Premier  Wen Jiabao 
to step up easing measures as risks grow that annual expansion
in the world’s second-biggest economy will be the weakest in 22
years. China’s central bank injected record funds into the
financial system this week while Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., the
nation’s largest publicly traded steelmaker, suspended
production at a Chinese plant after demand dropped for slabs
used to make ships and bridges.  “China’s industrial profitability is unlikely to see any
improvement until early 2013 or even mid-2013,” said Joy Yang,
Hong Kong-based chief Greater  China  economist at Mirae Asset
Securities (HK) Ltd. “The central bank has to keep liquidity
accommodative to growth” and it can do so by injecting funds
through reverse-repurchase operations or cutting banks’ required
reserves, said Yang, who forecasts one more reserve-ratio
reduction this year.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index of stocks rose 0.5
percent as of 10:22 a.m., rebounding after closing yesterday at
the lowest since January 2009 and briefly falling below the
2,000 level for the first time in three years.  Slowdown Persisting  The economic slowdown may persist into next year on a lack
of funding for investment projects, Song Guoqing, a central bank
adviser, said last week.  Earnings are declining amid falling prices, higher costs
and slower demand. More small companies are halting all or half
of their production due to narrowing profit margins, Miao Wei,
minister of industry and information technology, said in remarks
posted on the agency’s  website  on Sept. 24. The China  Beige Book ,
a private survey, said more companies are cutting jobs and wages
this quarter.  Industrial companies’ profits in the first eight months of
the year declined 3.1 percent to 3.06 trillion yuan, according
to today’s statement. That compares with a 2.7 percent drop in
the first seven months and a 28.2 percent gain in the same
period in 2011. The government began reporting monthly year-
over-year profit changes in October 2011.  Revenue Pace  Revenue for the companies in the first eight months
increased 10.2 percent from a year earlier to 57.6 trillion yuan,
today’s statistics bureau report showed. Sales rose 29.9 percent
in the January-August period of 2011.  China’s  economy  may expand 7.4 percent in the three months
through September from a year earlier after growth slid for six
quarters to a three-year low of 7.6 percent in the second period,
according to a median estimate of 23 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  from Sept. 11 to Sept. 18.  Downward pressure on China’s economy is still “relatively
large” and the external environment is “very grim,” People’s
Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  wrote in an article in
Financial News published on Sept. 19.  Even so, the central bank has paused from monetary easing
after cutting  interest rates  in June for the first time in three
years, and again in July. The bank lowered lenders’ reserve
requirements three times from November to May.  Manufacturing Shrinks  A preliminary reading of a purchasing managers’ index
released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics on Sept. 20
pointed to a 11th month of contraction in manufacturing.  The government has sped up approvals of infrastructure
projects to help boost investment, while new local-currency
lending in August exceeded estimates and was the highest on
record in that month. A leading index for  China’s economy 
registered the biggest increase in seven months in August,
raising expectations for a moderate rebound in growth, the
Conference Board, a New York-based research group said Sept. 25.  Today’s data cover companies in 41 industries, according to
the statistics bureau. Starting last year, the bureau raised the
minimum annual sales for businesses included in the survey to 20
million yuan from 5 million yuan.  Wuhan Iron & Steel Co. (600005) , the nation’s fourth-largest listed
steel mill, said Aug. 26 that it expects its net income to fall
by more than 50 percent in the first nine months from a year
earlier as prices decreased.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  