-- Chinese Court Rejects Ai Weiwei’s $2.4 Million Tax Appeal
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-27T08:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/chinese-court-rejects-ai-weiwei-s-2-4-million-tax-appeal-1-.html
A Beijing court rejected artist Ai Weiwei’s appeal over 15 million  yuan  ($2.4 million) in back
taxes and fines levied after his release from almost three
months of detention last year.  Ai paid 8.45 million yuan in taxes and will not pay the
rest of the 15-million-yuan charge, he said in a phone interview
today after the Chaoyang District Court made its ruling.  “We are not going to pay a penny for this because we think
the whole trial is a politically motivated fabrication,” Ai
said in a telephone interview. “We never during the whole
struggle saw any evidence.”  Four calls to the Chaoyang District Court’s media office
were not returned today. In July, the court dismissed a separate
lawsuit Ai filed challenging the penalty.  Ai, an internationally known artist who has criticized the
government, was detained in April last year and released without
charges 81 days later. After he was freed, authorities handed
him the bill for back taxes they said were owed by Beijing Fake
Cultural Development Ltd., the company that promotes his work
and is controlled by his wife.  “People ask me, ‘What about if they arrest you?’” Ai said
about his refusal to pay the full 15 million yuan. “I’m not
afraid they can arrest me because a government like this or a
system like this, they really can put anybody in this kind of
condition and there’s no way to stop them.”  Ai’s works have included an installation at  London ’s Tate
Modern gallery turbine hall featuring millions of ceramic
sunflower seeds, and another for Munich’s Haus der Kunst that
consisted of 9,000 backpacks to commemorate schoolchildren who
died in the 2008 Sichuan earthquake.  He has blamed poor building standards for the deaths and
accused the government of underreporting how many children died
in the quake.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  