-- Christie to Veto Every Spending Bill Until Tax Cut Passes
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-09-27T20:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/christie-vows-to-veto-every-spending-bill-until-tax-cut-passes.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ,
a Republican who faces re-election next year, said he will veto
every spending bill that reaches his desk until Democratic
lawmakers approve a tax cut.  New Jersey can reduce taxes, the governor said today at a
business group luncheon in  Cherry Hill .  “They’ve got the money to lower your taxes,” Christie
said. “All they need to do is cut spending.”  Christie, 50, has traveled the state pushing for a tax cut.
Democrats, who control both houses of the legislature, have said
they won’t agree until they know revenue will meet Christie’s
forecasts. His predictions have been called optimistic by
 Standard & Poor’s , which lowered the state’s credit outlook to
negative from stable on Sept. 18.  Tax revenue in July and August, the first two months of the
fiscal year, was 4.9 percent below targets set in Christie’s
$31.7 billion budget, the state Treasury Department said on
Sept. 19.  New Jersey’s revenue must rise 8.2 percent to balance
Christie’s fiscal 2013 spending plan and make up for a tax
shortfall in the year ended June 30, the legislature’s chief
budget officer said on Sept. 19.  Falling Short  Christie had forecast a revenue gain of 7.2 percent, the
second-most optimistic projection after  California , according to
the treasurer’s office. That growth rate would leave Christie’s
budget $258 million short, according to  David Rosen  of the
nonpartisan Office of Legislative Services.  The governor had initially proposed a 10 percent income-tax
cut for every New Jersey resident over three years. Democrats
said that plan favored the wealthy and ignored residents’
property-tax burdens.  Christie and Senate Democrats agreed on a plan that would
provide an income-tax credit of as much as 10 percent of
property-tax bills for households earning less than $400,000 a
year. Democrats then delayed the tax cut until midway through
the fiscal year to see whether revenue reaches Christie’s
targets.  Democrats control the Senate, 24-16, and the Assembly,
48-32, short of the two-thirds majority needed to reverse a
veto.  Christie said he’s targeted almost three dozen bills
currently pending in the Legislature that would entail new
spending. Ticking off a list of measures he opposes, Christie
cited one by Assembly Budget Chairman Vincent Prieto, a Democrat
from Secaucus, that would reimburse towns $6 million to cover
lost revenue due to tax-exempt cemeteries.  He called such measures, including another one that would
offer grants to build kitchens at daycare centers,
“hypocritical.”  Tom Hester , a spokesman for Prieto, said in an e-mail that
the bills cited by Christie have been introduced and haven’t
advanced. Among the targeted bills by Christie would be stronger
domestic-violence laws, business-tax credits aimed at creating
jobs and veterans’ programs.  “ New Jerseyans  are suffering under Governor Christie’s net
20 percent property-tax hike and 9.9 percent unemployment, so
this continued disregard is the last thing they need from
Governor Christie,” Hester said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  