-- Chrysler Reaches Labor Accord With CAW, Avoids Strike
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-09-27T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/chrysler-reaches-labor-accord-with-caw-avoids-strike.html
Chrysler Group LLC, majority-owned
by  Fiat SpA (F) , and the Canadian Auto Workers union reached a four-
year labor agreement yesterday, avoiding a strike and wrapping
up the latest round of negotiations with the major U.S
automakers.  “We feel good about this collective agreement,” union
President  Ken Lewenza  said at a news conference in Toronto. “We
feel damn good about Chrysler.”  The accord is subject to a ratification vote by CAW
members, scheduled for this weekend. Chrysler, based in  Auburn
Hills ,  Michigan , has about 8,000 production workers in Ontario
including vehicle-assembly plants in Brampton, near Toronto, and
Windsor, outside of Detroit. Chrysler, in an e-mailed statement,
declined to comment about the tentative agreement.  The Chrysler deal follows a pattern set in deals signed by
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM) , Lewenza said. The Ford
and GM accords mostly eliminate cost-of-living raises in favor
of bonuses, lower the starting wage and extend the time it takes
for a new hire to reach the top pay grade.  An agreement between Chrysler and its Canadian union
workers maintains production of some of the company’s most
important products. The Dodge Grand Caravan and Chrysler Town &
Country minivans built in Windsor were the fourth- and fifth-
best selling models in the company’s lineup last year.
Deliveries of the 300 sedan surged 158 percent this year through
August, the biggest gain among its models.  Lump-Sum Payments  Lewenza said yesterday that Chrysler matched lump-sum
payments that  Detroit , Michigan-based GM and Dearborn, Michigan-
based Ford agreed to make. In those deals, workers will get
C$2,000 ($2,033) lump-sum payments in lieu of raises and a
C$3,000 ratification bonus.  Chrysler didn’t make investment commitments for Canadian
operations, Lewenza said. The accord does provide Chrysler
savings and “has positioned us for future investment,” he
said.  Chrysler Chief Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne “has
got a lot of reasons to invest in  Canada  and at the end of the
day I want Mr. Marchionne to focus on the many challenges he has
in  Europe  and let us pay the bills in Canada,” the CAW
president said yesterday. Marchionne is also CEO of Turin,
Italy-based Fiat.  Ford committed to 600 new jobs while GM agreed to add 1,000
new positions to offset the loss of 2,000 jobs at a plant that
was set to close June 2013, and will now stay open a year longer
under the new agreement. Ford CAW members have ratified their
labor agreement. GM union members are scheduled to conclude
voting today.  With the Canadian dollar up about 60 percent against its
U.S. counterpart in the past 10 years, reducing labor costs was
a focus for all three car companies at the negotiations’ outset.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net  