-- Chrysler Adding Ram Commercial Truck Division as Pickups Debut
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-09-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/chrysler-adding-ram-commercial-truck-division-as-pickups-debut.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker
controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , said it is creating a new division
within its Ram truck brand aimed at fleet buyers and small
businesses as it introduces new heavy-duty pickups.  The Ram Commercial division will have its own dedicated
staff in all areas of the company that develop vehicles
including product planning and design, Fred Diaz, president of
the Ram truck brand, told reporters during an embargoed briefing
on Sept. 17 in  Auburn Hills ,  Michigan , where Chrysler is based.  “We’re going to fill the commercial end of the business
with all the products that all commercial buyers and fleet
buyers out there will be able to consider Ram for, from soup to
nuts,” said Diaz, who declined to name specific future models.
Fiat’s five-year plan for Chrysler includes bringing large- and
small-commercial vans to the U.S. in 2012 under the Ram brand
based on Fiat’s truck platforms.  Chrysler plans to unveil the 2013 Ram 2500 and 3500 Heavy
Duty pickups, along with the new Ram 3500, 4500 and 5500 Chassis
cab work trucks today at the State Fair of Texas in  Dallas . Diaz
said the heavy-duty pickups will have best-in-class towing
capabilities, which will be detailed along with pricing in
January at the  Detroit auto show .  Chrysler begins producing the new heavy-duty pickups in
January, said Bob Hegbloom, director of the Ram truck brand. The
automaker sped up the line rate at its heavy-duty truck plant in
Saltillo,  Mexico , in the past month to meet demand, said Mike
Cairns, head of Ram truck engineering. Jodi Tinson, a company
spokeswoman, declined to say how many additional trucks will be
built as a result of the line-speed boost.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  