-- Citigroup’s Park Sees ‘Explosive’ Rebound in Korean M&A
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-09-28T07:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/citigroup-s-park-sees-explosive-rebound-in-korean-m-a-deals.html
Acquisitions by South Korean
companies are set to rebound as much as 30 percent in 2013, from
a seven-year low this year, as a stronger won and improved
earnings drive overseas purchases, according to  Citigroup (C)  Inc.  “While South Korean companies are becoming more active in
cross-border transactions, they haven’t been aggressive
enough,” said Jangho Park, head of Korean investment banking at
Citigroup, the country’s top M&A adviser. “Deal volumes will be
explosive in two to three years as they learn from trial and
error.”  Strength in the won, Asia’s best performing currency
against the dollar over the past year, will fuel Korean
companies’ appetite for takeovers after the value of U.S. and
European targets has declined, Park said in an interview
yesterday. Globally, mergers and acquisitions this quarter have
slumped to a level unseen since the aftermath of the financial
crisis amid concern the economic recovery is waning.  South Korean takeover announcements have dropped to $38.5
billion this year, compared with $39.8 billion for the same
period a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Deals involving the country’s companies tallied $53.3 billion
for all of last year, the data show.  The value of this year’s acquisitions may fall as much as
15 percent from 2011, Park said.  Domestic Pickup  Resuming sales of state-owned assets and political pressure
to break up large industrial groups will help spur mergers and
acquisitions domestically next year, Park said.  “Big conglomerates want to streamline their businesses and
improve their core efficiency,” he said. “Public criticism
over excessive expansion would also be a factor in deciding to
sell assets.”  South Korean deals this year helping Citigroup top the
country’s rankings include Lotte Shopping Co.’s $1 billion
takeover of electronics retailer Himart Co. in July and Hanwha
Chemical Corp.’s purchase of German solar company Q-Sells SE.  The government’s delayed sales of Woori Finance Holdings
Co. and Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. stakes may
resume next year following the presidential election in
December, according to Park. Investors’ uncertainty related to
policies under a new administration should ease, he said.  Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. bank by  assets , this year
holds 22 percent of the market for advisory deals involving
Korean companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rebounding Fees  Park expects fees on advisory services in the country to
rise as foreign firms have left the market amid volatile
economic and market conditions. Overseas banks are becoming more
conservative in assessing financing risk, while Korean banks are
becoming more aggressive in funding local and overseas
purchases, he said.  “With weaker players out of the field, I see the worst is
over and fees will likely begin rising from this year after
hitting a bottom over the last couple of years,” Park said.  Companies worldwide have announced $446 billion of
takeovers since June 30, the smallest amount since the third
quarter of 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  