-- Comtech Says CEO Being Probed by Grand Jury Over Sales
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-09-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/comtech-says-ceo-being-probed-by-grand-jury-over-sales.html
Comtech Telecommunications Corp. (CMTL) , a
 New York  electronics communications company, said it’s being
investigated by a U.S. grand jury and that its chief executive
officer has lost his U.S. security clearance.  Comtech, based in Melville, New York, said it believes the
investigation stems from Chief Executive Officer Fred Kornberg’s
contact with a “scientific attache” he met with to discuss
equipment sales to  Israel  in the 1980s, according to a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission filing yesterday.  The U.S. last month notified Comtech that Kornberg’s
clearance was suspended, according to the company’s filing.  The attaché was “later alleged to have conducted
intelligence operations in the U.S.,” the company said.  Comtech, which had revenue of $425 million in the year
ended July 31, has made “made certain internal organizational
realignments” in order to maintain eligibility for some
government contracts, the company said. Comtech derives about
half its revenue from the U.S. government.  The changes “restrict access to classified information to
other Comtech senior executives, management and other employees
who maintain the required level of clearance,” according to the
filing.  Separately, Kornberg and others have received subpoenas
from the SEC for documents concerning transactions in shares of
CPI International Inc., the company said in the filing. Kornberg
purchased CPI stock in November 2010, two months after the
termination of Comtech’s May 2010 agreement to acquire CPI,
according to the filing.  Michael Porcelain, Comtech’s chief financial officer,
declined to comment on the filing.  Satellites, Tanks  Comtech’s products include satellite communications gear
installed on Abrams tanks, Apache helicopters and other military
vehicles. The company’s technologies for tracking troops on the
ground “are critical components of the U.S. Army’s satellite
communications network,” according to its filing.  The company yesterday reported net income for the fourth
quarter ended July 31 of $7.93 million, or 38 cents a share,
matching analysts’ average estimate. It reported sales for the
quarter of $113 million, compared with the average estimate of
$109 million.  Comtech forecasted profit for fiscal 2013 of $1.40 to $1.50
a share. Analysts had predicted $1.46 a share, the average of
six estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  