-- Copper Bulls Retreat on Concern Stimulus Not Enough: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-09-28T16:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/copper-bulls-retreat-on-concern-stimulus-not-enough-commodities.html
Copper bulls retreated for a third
consecutive week on mounting concern that weaker manufacturing
from  Europe  to China will curb demand even as central banks
pledge more stimulus to boost economies.  Thirteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said they expect
prices to gain next week, 12 were bearish and one was neutral.
That’s the lowest proportion of bulls since Aug. 17. They were
the most bullish since October at the start of the month.  Copper reached a four-month high Sept. 19 after the  Federal
Reserve  and  European Central Bank  said they would buy more debt
and China, the biggest copper user, approved a $158 billion
subways-to-roads construction plan. Data since then signaled
contracting factory output in Europe and China and a weaker  U.S.
economy . International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine
Lagarde  said Sept. 24 that global growth may be “a bit weaker”
than the Washington-based group forecast in July.  “It will take time for stimulus to impact real demand and
globally we still see poor data on many fronts,” said Filip Petersson, an analyst at SEB AB in  Stockholm . “The industrial-
metal market will have a very hard time recovering without the
Chinese downturn being reversed or at least stabilization.”  The metal rose 8.3 percent to $8,230 a metric ton this year
on the  London  Metal Exchange, after advancing 7.1 percent this
quarter. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities gained 11
percent since the start of January and the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI gauge of 24 commodities added 2.9 percent. Treasuries
returned 2.3 percent, a Bank of America Corp.  index (MXWD)  shows.  ‘Game Changer’  Weakening global growth means the actions taken by central
banks probably won’t be a “game changer” for many commodities,
Barclays Plc said in a report Sept. 25. Supply will exceed
demand by 160,000 tons in the three months through December, the
first surplus this year, Barclays predicts.  Preliminary data from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics on Sept. 20 pointed to an 11th month of manufacturing
contraction in China and added to signs the nation’s slowdown is
extending into a seventh quarter. Services and output in the 17-
nation euro area plunged to a 39-month low in September, a
Markit report showed. An index of U.S. leading economic
indicators declined for the second time in three months in
August, the Conference Board said Sept. 20.  Quantitative Easing  Copper tripled as the Fed bought $2.3 trillion of debt in
two rounds of quantitative easing from December 2008 through
June 2011. The Fed said Sept. 13 it will buy $40 billion of
mortgage debt a month and probably hold the federal funds rate
near zero until at least the middle of 2015. The  Bank of Japan 
said last week it will add to a fund that buys assets and the
ECB announced an unlimited bond-purchase program Sept. 6.  Hedge funds’ bets on a rally were near the highest in more
than five months in the week ended Sept. 18, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data show. Speculators had wagered on
price declines from May to August. This year’s average price of
$7,963 is set to be the second-highest ever, after 2011.  Inventories in warehouses monitored by the LME, the largest
industrial metals bourse, slumped 41 percent this year and fell
to the lowest since October 2008 on Sept. 19, exchange data
show. Copper is the metal most likely to benefit from
infrastructure spending in China, Macquarie Group Ltd. said at a
Sept. 19 press briefing in London.  IMF Forecast  The S&P GSCI gauge of raw materials entered a  bull market 
as it climbed 24 percent from this year’s lowest close on June
21 through Sept. 14. It’s dropped about 4.3 percent since then.
The IMF forecast in July global growth of 3.5 percent this year
and 3.9 percent in 2013.  In other commodities, 15 of 30 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg said gold would rise next week and 13 were
bearish. Futures on the Comex exchange in  New York  rose 13
percent to $1,777.50 an ounce since the start of January,
extending 11 consecutive annual gains. Holdings in gold-backed
exchange-traded products reached a record 2,551.9 tons on Sept.
25, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Six of 13 people surveyed expect raw sugar to drop next
week and five predicted gains. It slid 13 percent to 20.37 cents
a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York this year.  Fourteen of 27 people surveyed anticipate higher corn
prices next week and 13 said the grain will fall, while 15 of 28
said soybeans will increase and 13 expect lower prices. Corn
rose 17 percent to $7.5625 a bushel this year as soybeans
advanced 32 percent to $15.96 a bushel in  Chicago . Both crops
surged to records since August as the U.S. endured its worst
drought in more than 50 years.  “The significant steps we’ve seen in recent times from a
whole variety of countries will in due course help to alleviate
the worst fears of hard landings, particularly in  China ,” said
Ross Strachan, a commodities economist at Capital Economics Ltd.
in London. “You’ve still very much got the global economy
slowing down. Things are likely to get significantly worse for
commodity prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  