-- Corporates Attractive Amid Easing, BlackRock’s Rosenberg Says
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-09-27T13:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/corporates-attractive-amid-easing-blackrock-s-rosenberg-says.html
Corporate bonds are among the most
attractive fixed-income assets with most sovereign-debt yields
below the level of inflation and central banks easing, according
to Jeffrey Rosenberg of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   “That’s a new world of investing for fixed-income
investors,” Rosenberg, chief investment strategist for fixed
income in  New York  at BlackRock, which has $3.5 trillion under
management, said on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance”
during an interview with Tom Keene and Sara Eisen. Investors
should “concentrate your fixed income in the different types of
risk, such as corporate bonds, emerging market debt, high-yield
and floating rate.”  Metrics of inflation, such as those from inflation
protected securities, rose earlier this month as central banks
in Asia and  Europe  as well as the  Federal Reserve  took steps to
fuel growth and ease financial conditions.  The Fed said it expects to hold borrowing costs steady into
2015 and will buy mortgage debt each month until the labor
market improves and growth accelerates. The  European Central
Bank  said it planned a bond-purchase program to fight the
region’s debt crisis, while the  Bank of Japan (8301)  has boosted
stimulus and  China  approved additional infrastructure spending.  The gap in yield between Treasury 10-year notes and
similar-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, known
as the break-even rate, narrowed to 2.44 percentage points today
after touching 2.73 percentage points on Sept. 17, the most
since May 2006. The gap has averaged 2.22 percentage points this
year.  Financial Assets  Regarding the Fed’s actions, “the benefits of this policy
are really toward financial assets and the creation of financial
inflation, and not the creation of new economic activity,”
Rosenberg said. “The costs are back loaded. Those costs are the
potential loss of independence and higher future inflation.’  This is ‘‘why you don’t want to take interest-rate risk if
the outcome of this monetary policy is higher inflation,” said
Rosenberg.  In Europe, the sovereign debt of Italy is attractive given
the high yield and lower risk profile relative to other
peripheral nations such as Spain, BlackRock’s Rosenberg said.  Spanish 10-year yields dropped for the first time in three
days. Spain’s 10-year bond yield fell five basis points to 6.02
percent. The yield on Italy’s 10-year note declined two basis
points to 5.19 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  