-- Credit Suisse’s Keitel Hangs Tough on Stocks in Hunt for Returns
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-09-27T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/credit-suisse-s-keitel-hangs-tough-on-stocks-in-hunt-for-returns.html
When the MSCI World index fell 16
percent in two weeks in August last year,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
Chief Investment Officer Stefan Keitel kept his overweight
recommendation on equities.  Keitel, a German national who took on the newly created
role of the CIO for both the Zurich-based company’s private bank
and asset management unit in 2009, stuck by his call until
markets  rallied  in January and February.  “This was a tough time,” Keitel, 43, said in an interview
at his office in Zurich. “I had so many conversations with
clients and relationship managers and it wasn’t easy to convince
them that maybe the markets are completely irrational. This
discipline and anti-cyclical behavior not to lock-in losses paid
out pretty well since then.”  Keitel, who joined Credit Suisse in 2001 after working as a
portfolio manager at Prudential Securities Group in  New York  and
 Frankfurt , is setting strategy for about 1.21 trillion francs
($1.29 trillion) of funds as the erosion of bank secrecy makes
investment returns a key benchmark for Swiss wealth managers.
That pits Keitel against  Alexander Friedman , his opposite number
at  UBS AG (UBSN) , as profitability declines across the industry.  “Since the financial crisis, revenue margins in private
banking have fallen by 20 percent and profit margins have
dropped by over a third,” Credit Suisse Chairman Urs Rohner
told a conference in Zurich Sept. 3. “Asset inflows from mature
markets remain challenging and the cost of doing business will
increase further as a result of implementation of regulation
both domestic and foreign.”  Speeding Implementation  The  wealth business  of  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank
attracted 11 billion francs of net new money in the first half
of this year. Outflows from “mature” offshore markets totaled
5 billion francs.  Gross margins, or the amount of revenue Credit Suisse makes
on assets under management, fell to 115 basis points in the
second quarter from 135 basis points in 2009. A basis point is
one hundredth of a percentage point.  Keitel, who co-manages 103 billion francs in discretionary
mandates with Andreas Russenberger, has accelerated the
implementation of investment decisions to five days from several
weeks. He is chairman of a global investment committee that
meets every two weeks and liaises with about 25 people from
different units of Credit Suisse on decision-making.  There has also been a shift in focus to the analysis of
fundamental trends from quantitative models to better explain
recommendations to clients, said Keitel, who rides a Harley
Davidson in his spare time.  Seeking Returns  Transparency and clear communication with customers are
“crucial, in particular in the aftermath of the financial
crisis,” said Keitel, who gets support from analysts, regional
CIOs and sub-committees that can conduct more detailed analysis
of areas such as alternative investments and  emerging markets .  Larger rival UBS has reorganized under Friedman, who is
masterminding the management of 1.54 trillion francs of assets
for wealthy clients. Performance should replace the “moat” of
secrecy that guarded Swiss banks’ business and attracted
clients, he said last month.  “Swiss private banks have rediscovered the importance of
investments performance,” said Christian Staub, head of Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s Swiss unit. “It’s great for the
whole market place that this is happening.”  In the first eight months of this year, returns on so-
called balanced mandates, which invest 40 percent in stocks, 35
percent in bonds and 20 percent in alternative investments at
neutral  asset allocation , ranged from 6 percent to 10 percent
depending on the currency, according to Credit Suisse. Those
returns are before fees.  Overweight Calls  The return in Swiss franc balanced portfolios for clients
that invest a minimum of 500,000 francs was 7 percent, compared
with a negative 5.4 percent in 2011 when stock markets fell,
contrary to Keitel’s expectations.  That compares with the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index’s 8.2 percent gain
this year through August and a 3.6 percent advance in the 10-
year Treasury future. The Pimco Total Return Fund, the world’s
biggest mutual fund with at least 65 percent of its $270 billion
of assets allocated to investment-grade fixed-income
instruments,  climbed  5.8 percent and the Vanguard Balanced Index
fund, which tracks U.S. stocks with 60 percent of its assets and
bonds with the rest, rose 8.4 percent in the period. Those
returns are after fees.  Credit Suisse moved to a neutral stance on equities after
MSCI World Index rallied 9.8 percent over January and February,
following its 7.6 percent drop in 2011. The bank went back to
overweight stocks in early June just as stock markets started to
rise again and returned to neutral in August, said Keitel, who
has a degree in business management from the University of Mainz
in  Germany .  Bond Miss  Keitel has kept his June overweight call on European
equities as the Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 13 percent since
the end of May. With euro-zone markets still a consensus
underweight, there is plenty of room for upgrades, he said.  “European equities should outperform,” Keitel said. That
will be driven in the coming months “by more compelling
valuations, visible improvements regarding the management of the
euro-zone crisis and the currency stimulus.”  Keitel, who regularly commutes between his family home near
Frankfurt and Zurich, said his call on short duration has been
the least successful over the past three years and limited
returns made from fixed-income investments this year. Duration
is a measure of a bond’s price sensitivity to changes in
 interest rates .  Still, as with his call on equities, Keitel is prepared to
wait.  “You come to a point where you say now you’ve been wrong
for a pretty long time so it would be anything but sensible to
turn around at really stretched levels,” he said. “If we’re
right with the scenario that in 2013 macro-economic trends will
stabilize, inflation picks up and then bond yields have to rise
and we’d be rightly positioned.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  