-- Danish Banks to Offer Cita Loans After Review Finds Cibor Flawed
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-09-27T14:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/danish-banks-to-offer-cita-loans-after-review-finds-cibor-flawed.html
Denmark’s mortgage lenders will
offer loans tied to an alternative money market rate after the
government said the Copenhagen interbank offered rate is
fundamentally flawed.  Denmark’s mortgage banks will offer borrowers the option of
loans tied to the so-called Cita rate if lenders still make
money market-based products available, Karsten Beltoft, director
of the Mortgage Bankers’ Federation in Copenhagen, said.  A government review into possible bank manipulation of
Cibor absolved the industry while concluding the rate suffers
from a “fundamental problem,” Danish Business Minister Ole Sohn said today at a press conference called to release the
investigation’s results. Cibor is flawed because the market on
which it’s based disappeared after the financial crisis started,
Sohn said.  The Cita-based loans will be first offered in 2014, and the
bonds used to fund the loans will be traded on the market,
Beltoft said in an e-mail. Cita is extrapolated from actual
interest-rate swap agreements.  Sohn said Cibor wouldn’t be phased out because of its
widespread use and instead the Danish Financial Supervisory
Authority will be responsible for overseeing reference rates.  Cibor serves as a benchmark for about 20 percent, or $70
billion, of all Danish residential and commercial property
loans. As much as 7.5 trillion kroner ($1.3 trillion) in
financial contracts are affected by the rate, the bankers’ group
estimates.  The Danish Bankers Association said Sept. 4 an internal
probe had ruled out the possibility of deliberate mis-pricing of
Cibor. The investigations followed a note by Swedish bank SEB
AB, which said the rate had been fixed too high.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  