-- Defense of Marriage Act Faces Widow’s Tax Case Appeal
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-09-27T18:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/defense-of-marriage-act-faces-widow-s-tax-case-appeal.html
The  Defense of Marriage Act , a law
barring the U.S. government from recognizing same-sex unions,
improperly discriminates against gay men and lesbians and should
be declared unconstitutional, a lawyer for an 83-year-old widow
told an appeals court.  A three-judge panel in  New York  today heard arguments from
 Edith Windsor , who sued over a $363,000 federal tax bill she
received after the 2009 death of her spouse, Thea Spyer.  Their marriage, which was performed in  Canada , was
recognized under the laws of New York, where the couple lived,
Windsor’s lawyers said. Spyer’s estate would have been exempt
from the taxes if she had been married to a man. A federal judge
in  Manhattan  sided with Windsor in June, finding the Defense of
Marriage Act unconstitutional.  “This case is not about a federal right to marry,”
Windsor’s lawyer, Roberta Kaplan, told a three-judge panel of
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  today. Congress improperly substituted
its own definition of marriage in DOMA, instead of respecting
state decisions on marital status as it had done in the past,
Kaplan argued.  The case follows a May decision by a federal appeals court
in Boston that the law, which defines marriage as only between a
man and a woman, is unconstitutional. That is the only such
ruling on DOMA by a U.S. appeals court.  “The main issues in these cases revolve around equal
protection, the idea that this federal law treats similarly
situated people differently,” said Jonathan Entin, who teaches
constitutional law at Case Western Reserve University law school
in  Cleveland .  Supreme Court  Entin said he expects the final decision on whether DOMA is
constitutional to rest with the U.S.  Supreme Court .  Kaplan today told the judges that DOMA is unconstitutional
because Congress had no legitimate government interest that was
rationally served by the law. She urged the judges to review the
statute with a heightened level of scrutiny because it
discriminates against a group that has suffered from bias.  James Esseks, director of the  American Civil Liberties
Union ’s Lesbian Gay Bisexual and Transgender Project, said in an
interview yesterday that justifications for DOMA by its
supporters amount to little more than “discomfort with gay
people” and with same-sex marriage. The ACLU is helping Windsor
challenge the law.  Presidential Appointees  The judges considering the case are Dennis Jacobs, the
court’s chief judge, appointed by Republican President  George H.W. Bush ; Chester Straub, an appointee of Democratic President
 Bill Clinton , who signed the act into law in 1996; and
Christopher Droney, who was appointed by President  Barack Obama ,
also a Democrat. The judges didn’t say when they will decide on
the appeal.  DOMA affects more than 1,000 federal laws that refer to
marriage, according to the opinion by the Boston-based appeals
court. The law may affect more than 100,000 couples, the judges
said.  In February, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder told
Congress that the Obama administration would no longer defend
DOMA. The case for upholding it is being argued in the Windsor
case by the Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group of the U.S. House of
Representatives.  Past Defenses  Windsor’s position was supported today by a  Justice
Department  lawyer who, under questioning from the judges,
acknowledged that the department had defended the
constitutionality of DOMA in the past.  Paul Clement , who urged the judges to overturn the lower-
court ruling, said that at the time DOMA was enacted, no states
permitted same-sex marriage. Congress’s intention was “to
maintain this traditional definition that was in place in all 50
states,” he said.  Clement, who was solicitor general under President  George W. Bush , argued that DOMA was rationally related to the
legitimate government interest in ensuring that federal laws and
benefits would be administered uniformly, rather than differing
state by state.  Gregory Katsas, who defended DOMA as assistant attorney
general for the Justice Department’s Civil Division in the
administration of George W. Bush, said in an interview yesterday
that one of the strongest arguments DOMA supporters point to is
the long history of defining marriage as a union between a man
and a woman.  “Same-sex marriage is something that’s relatively novel
and not that widely accepted,” said Katsas, now a partner with
the Jones Day law firm in Washington. He said it’s a “hard
sell” for opponents to argue that Congress had no rational
basis for restricting the definition of marriage, for purposes
of federal law, to include only heterosexual couples.  1963 Engagement  Windsor, who worked for International Business Machines
Corp., and Spyer, a clinical psychologist, met in 1963 and
became engaged in 1967, according to the complaint filed in the
case. They married in Toronto in 2007. New York, which didn’t
allow gays and lesbians to marry at the time, recognized same-
sex unions that were performed in jurisdictions where they were
legal. Last year, New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  signed a law
legalizing gay marriage in the state.  Same-sex marriage is permitted in the  District of Columbia 
and in six states: Connecticut, Iowa, Massachusetts,  New
Hampshire , New York and Vermont.  The case is Windsor v. U.S., 12-2435, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  