-- Deripaska Settles Cherney’s U.K. Lawsuit Over Rusal Stake
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-09-27T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/deripaska-settles-cherney-s-london-lawsuit-over-rusal-stake.html
United Co. Rusal (486)  Chief Executive
Officer Oleg Deripaska settled a lawsuit seeking as much as $1
billion filed by Michael Cherney over a stake in the world’s
largest aluminum producer.  The lawsuit was “terminated,” Deripaska and Cherney said
in separate statements yesterday, without commenting further on
the terms of any agreement.  An increasing number of U.K. trials have exposed the
business practices of a small group of extremely wealthy
Russians who profited from the fall of communism and
privatization of many of the country’s largest energy companies.  Cherney, a businessman living in exile in Israel, sued
Deripaska in the London trial beginning in July, saying they
were partners in Russia during the 1990s and that he was owed a
share of Rusal.  Deripaska, a 44-year-old billionaire, worth $10 billion
according to Bloomberg’s Billionaire Index, made his fortune in
Russia’s metals trade. He denied they were ever partners. He
said Cherney is a criminal who used gangster contacts to get
protection payments or “krysha,” according to documents filed
at the London high court.  Cherney said he had two documents Deripaska signed in 2001
promising to hold shares for him. While Cherney didn’t specify
an amount in the lawsuit, those shares could be now worth as
much as $1 billion, according to Rusal’s current market
valuation.  Berezovsky-Abramovich  A U.K. judge threw out a claim last month by former Russian
billionaire Boris Berezovsky that he lost about $6.8 billion
because he was intimidated by Roman Abramovich into selling
stakes in two Russian companies.  Berezovsky separately agreed to drop a four-year-old
dispute against the estate of his former business partner Badri Patarkatsishvili Sept 13.  Earlier this month, Berezovsky, the 66-year-old former
adviser to Russian President Boris Yeltsin was also sued in
London by Russia’s Volga River region of Samara for around $30
million for embezzlement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net ;
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  