-- Deutsche Bank Cuts 2012 World GDP Forecast to 2.9% From 3.2%
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-09-27T20:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/deutsche-bank-cuts-2012-global-growth-forecast-to-2-9-from-3-2-.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  cut its global
growth forecast to 2.9 percent for this year and 3.2 percent in
2013, citing stalled recoveries in the U.S. and  Japan  and
planned American tax increases and spending cuts.  “The outlook for the world economy has deteriorated,”
analysts led by chief economist  Peter Hooper  in  New York  wrote
in a report today. “Optimism regarding the near-term global
economic outlook continues to fade, particularly in the U.S.
where the ‘fiscal cliff’ at the end of this year appears likely
to restrain growth well into 2013.”  While new policy easing measures by the  Federal Reserve  and
 European Central Bank  boosted asset prices, “disappointing
recoveries” in the U.S. and Japan will reduce global growth
into next year, Hooper wrote.  Emerging markets  such as China,
Brazil and India are “likely to struggle because of weaker
exports to developed economies,” he said.  Economists at the Frankfurt-based firm three months ago had
projected 3.2 percent growth this year and 3.5 percent next
year, according to the report. They said growth in 2014 will
accelerate to 3.8 percent, their first forecast for that year.  “Things have darkened significantly,” Hooper, who worked
for 26 years as an economist at the Fed board in Washington,
said today in a phone interview. “The uncertainty around the
fiscal cliff and the election outcome are causing the business
sector to be on hold for hiring and capital spending in a way
that’s greater than we would have expected.”  Cut Forecasts  The  International Monetary Fund  will cut economic forecasts
for the global economy “by a few decimal points,” Khor Hoe Ee,
an assistant director at the fund, said Sept. 20. The most
recent IMF forecast, released in July, projected 2012 global
growth of 3.5 percent. The fund cut its estimate for next year
to 3.9 percent, from an April forecast of 4.1 percent.  “While central banks have mitigated market risks with
their balance sheet operations, the economic risks remain
frustratingly unchanged and relate mostly to fiscal policies,”
the analysts wrote. “Our global growth outlook continues to
anticipate a strengthening of demand over the coming four
quarters. But the slope of that trajectory is now considerably
flatter.”  The U.S. faces a so-called fiscal cliff of $600 billion of
tax increases and spending cuts that will kick in automatically
at the end of the year unless Congress acts. The  Congressional
Budget Office  said in an Aug. 22 report that fiscal tightening
of that magnitude could cause a recession.  ‘Support Growth’  Interest rates  in the U.S. and  Europe  probably won’t rise
until at least 2015 because central banks are “redoubling their
efforts to support growth” and inflation is “likely to remain
broadly under control,” the analysts said. Policy makers in
developing nations may “tighten policy next year if food-price
inflation picks up significantly,” they wrote.  The Fed is using new tools to attack a U.S. jobless rate
stuck above 8 percent since February 2009. Policy makers said
this month they will probably hold the federal funds rate near
zero at least through mid-2015. They had forecast since January
that rates will stay low at least through late 2014.  The world’s largest economy grew less than previously
forecast in the second quarter, the U.S. Commerce Department
said today. Gross domestic product expanded at a 1.3 percent
pace after growing at a 2 percent rate from January through
March. The revision, the third estimate for the quarter,
compared with a prior estimate of 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  Washington  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  