-- Discover Profit Exceeds Estimates as Fewer Borrowers Default
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-09-27T14:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/discover-profit-exceeds-estimates-as-fewer-borrowers-default-1-.html
Discover Financial Services (DFS) , the
credit-card lender that struck a partnership with  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s
PayPal unit, posted a fiscal third-quarter profit that beat Wall
Street estimates as fewer loans soured. The stock jumped.  Net income in the period ended Aug. 31 fell 3.4 percent to
$627 million, or $1.21 a share, from $649 million, or $1.18, a
year earlier, the Riverwoods, Illinois-based company said today
in a statement. The average  estimate  of 22 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey was $1.03 a share.  Discover, the  fourth-best performer  this year in the 81-
company Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index through
yesterday, climbed to a record last month after announcing a
transaction-processing deal with PayPal that will drive more
volume to the lender’s network. Chief Executive Officer David Nelms has repurchased shares as write-offs and delinquencies
improved.  “It was a great quarter,” said Henry Coffey, an analyst
with Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc. in  New York , who has a buy rating
on Discover shares. “Across the board you had favorable trends
in every class of loans except  student loans .”  Discover gained 3.4 percent to $38.29 at 10:04 a.m. in New
York. The shares advanced 54 percent this year through yesterday
and have more than doubled since the end of 2010. The company
bought back about 10 million shares of common stock in the
quarter for $350 million, according to the statement.  ‘Historic Lows’  Write-off and late-payment rates at Discover are the
second-lowest among the six-biggest U.S. card lenders, after
 American Express Co. (AXP)  Loans deemed uncollectible fell to 2.19
percent in August from 3.6 percent a year earlier, regulatory
filings show. Loans at least 30 days overdue, a signal of future
defaults, dropped to 1.79 percent from 2.49 percent.  Discover wrote off $308 million in soured loans for the
quarter, a 33 percent decline from the same period last year.
Delinquent loans have reached “historic lows,” the firm said.  Purchases made with Discover cards increased 4 percent to
$27.2 billion from a year earlier, the lender said. Net interest
income climbed 11 percent to $133 million and credit-card loans
rose 4 percent to $48.1 billion.  Discover will give $200 million in refunds to customers and
pay $14 million to resolve U.S. regulatory claims concerning the
marketing of credit-protection products sold by phone, the firm
said last week. Legal costs increased $94 million compared with
a year earlier due to expenses associated with the regulatory
probe.  PayPal Partnership  The deal with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is the second this year
over credit-card add-on products designed to help customers
manage debts in case of a job loss or other catastrophic event.
In July, the agencies reached a similar settlement with  Capital
One Financial Corp. (COF)   The processing pact with  San Jose , California-based EBay
will allow PayPal customers, who currently use the service
almost exclusively online, to shop at more than 7 million U.S.
merchant locations that accept Discover. That could boost
Discover’s annual earnings by 6 cents a share to as much as 23
cents, according to  Donald Fandetti , a Citigroup Inc. analyst.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  