-- Dish Debuts Satellite Broadband Service for Rural Clients
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-09-27T20:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/dish-introduces-satellite-broadband-service-for-rural-customers.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-
largest U.S. satellite-television provider, introduced a
nationwide broadband-Internet service called DishNet that’s
aimed at rural customers.  The service will start at $39.99 a month for download
speeds of 5 megabits per second with data plans of 10 gigabits,
Englewood, Colorado-based Dish said today in a statement. Most
satellite customers can upgrade to a 20-gigabit plan with speeds
of 10 megabits per second for $49.99. Combining DishNet with
Dish’s satellite TV service saves customers $10 a month.  Dish, which ranks second to  DirecTV (DTV)  in U.S. satellite
customers, is targeting the 14.5 million rural Americans who
have slower  Internet access  or no online connection at all.
While 10 megabits per second is a fraction of what’s offered by
cable and fiber-optic lines in urban areas, it’s fast enough for
most applications, such as social networking, video streaming
and Internet-based phone calls, Dish said.  “We believe today’s announcements should make Dish a
stronger player in the high-speed data marketplace,”  Marci Ryvicker , an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York, said in
an e-mail.  The new service will rely on a satellite from sister
company  EchoStar Corp. (SATS) , people familiar with the project said
last month. Dish and EchoStar can handle about 2 million new
Internet customers with the service, one of the people said. The
EchoStar 17 satellite was launched into orbit July 5.  EchoStar and Dish became separate companies in January
2008, with  Charlie Ergen  remaining the chairman of both.  Wire-line Service  “With nearly one in four rural residents lacking a high-
speed connection, reaching these underserved markets is vital,”
Chief Executive Officer Joseph Clayton said in the statement.  Dish also will fold its current wire-line broadband
service, available in 14 states, into the DishNet brand. That
product offers 7-megabit speeds for $29.95 a month.  Dish shares rose 1.8 percent to $30.97 at the close in New
York. The stock has climbed 8.7 percent this year. EchoStar, up
35 percent this year, rose 1.1 percent to $28.35.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  