-- Dish Said to Be in Talks With Viacom About Internet TV
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e ,   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-09-27T20:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/dish-said-to-be-in-talks-with-viacom-about-internet-tv.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  is talking to
networks such as  Viacom (VIAB)  Inc.’s  MTV  about offering their channels
over the Internet, a service that could shift the economics of
the pay-TV industry, five people familiar with the plan said.  In addition to Viacom, the negotiations involve the
Spanish-language broadcaster Univision Communications Inc. and
 Scripps Networks Interactive Inc. (SNI) , owner of the Food Network and
HGTV, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
talks are private. The companies would offer an online product
known as an over-the-top service, charging a lower price for a
smaller bundle of channels viewable on a computer or tablet.  Dish’s service would change the dynamics of the pay-
television business, breaking up the bundles that force
customers to pay for channels they don’t watch. It also gives
Dish a way to avoid its biggest programming expense: sports.
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN gets as much as $5.13 each month for
every cable and satellite subscriber, compared with the
industry’s average of 26 cents, according to SNL Kagan.  “That’s when you could start seeing a few cracks in the
ecosystem,” said  Alan Gould , a media analyst at Evercore
Partners LLC in New York. “The addition of an over-the-top
service would be significant.”  Live Television  The effort would mark the biggest attempt to create an
online service with live cable channels, a break from the
approach taken by  Netflix (NFLX)  Inc. and Hulu LLC. For Dish, the move
would decrease its reliance on its satellite-TV service, which
ranks second to  DirecTV (DTV)  in U.S. customers. It also gives it a
way to undercut pay-TV competitors on price.  Dish rose 1.8 percent to $30.97 at the close in New York.
The shares have gained 8.7 percent this year.  Cable networks, meanwhile, have been reluctant to break up
their suite of channels and sell them a la carte because it
would lower the amount of available advertising inventory.
Viacom and other cable networks typically sell ads at a lower
rate than the big broadcast networks such as  CBS Corp. (CBS) , so they
rely on volume.  Viacom would be willing to sell smaller bundles of its
networks, which also include Nickelodeon and  Comedy Central , at
a higher rate per channel than it does for its full complement
of programming, according to two executives familiar with the
situation.  Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish,
declined to comment. Mark Jafar, a spokesman for New York-based
Viacom, also declined to comment, as did Mark Kroeger at Scripps
and Matt Biscuiti at Univision.  Unwanted Option?  A central question is whether consumers want smaller
bundles that lack sports programming. Several pay-TV operators,
including Dish and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , already offer cheaper
packages that don’t include sports. Those offerings aren’t very
popular, said Amy Phillips, a spokeswoman for ESPN, the biggest
cable sports network. “History shows that very few households
subscribe,” she said.  Dish offers a  $20-per-month satellite package  without ESPN,
though it also lacks other top channels such as MTV and HGTV.
Cable and satellite companies have agreements with ESPN that
require the video distributors to include the sports network in
their most popular tier of TV service.  Charging Less  Dish Chairman  Charlie Ergen , who co-founded the company,
has said there will be a day when a pay-TV operator chooses not
to include sports in order to charge $10 to $20 per month less
than competitors.  “My mom doesn’t watch sports,” Ergen said during a
conference call last month. “I’ve got neighbors who don’t want
sports. I’ve got friends who go to the bars or the neighbors’
house to watch sports.”  Dish’s plan would go beyond the constraints of the so-
called TV Everywhere initiative, already adopted by most of the
major networks. Programmers such as CNN and  HBO , both owned by
 Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , offer the option to people who already pay for
television, letting them watch those same channels on their
phones, tablets and personal computers.  Time Warner Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bewkes  has said it
wouldn’t make sense to sell HBO directly to the 6 percent of
homes in the U.S. who don’t have cable or satellite service.  “There are some of those people that if you sign them up,
they would die the next day -- these are people that are old,”
he said at an investor conference last week.  Cord Cutters  Still, some younger people are abandoning conventional
cable TV in favor of Internet services. Dish wants to reach
consumers around 18 to 28 who would rather pay $20 a month for a
smaller package of channels to watch on computers or mobile
devices, CEO Joseph Clayton said in an interview this month.  The challenge is getting a “critical mass” of companies
to give online rights to live shows, Clayton said. Negotiations
bog down because programmers aren’t willing to sell Dish the
rights for a low enough price to make a service viable, he said.
Dish’s satellite customers paid an average of about $78 a month
in the second quarter.  Netflix and Hulu, two of the biggest providers of TV and
movie content over the Internet, don’t carry live programming,
which is considered valuable to advertisers because viewers are
less likely to skip commercials.  One hurdle to an Internet-only service, according to
programmers: Nielsen doesn’t measure online video the same way
it does with television. That makes it harder to track how many
people are watching and sell advertising based on that audience.  Online Audiences  Nielsen can measure online viewing audiences provided that
programmers broadcast the same ads online as they do on
television, said Brian Fuhrer, a senior vice president at the
ratings company. Websites such as Hulu, which sells different
ads during the shows it streams, would require special coding
for Nielsen to count.  Dish would be competing with Aereo Inc., a startup backed
by  Barry Diller ’s  IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI)  that lets users watch some
live television over the Internet for a fixed monthly fee.  The broadcast networks, including  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox and CBS,
sued the company in March for what they consider the illegal
retransmissions of their broadcast signals. The networks
normally receive fees from television distributors such as Dish.
New York-area cable provider Cablevision Systems Corp. filed a
brief in support of the broadcasters last week.  Broadcast Networks  Dish and Aereo don’t expect to get separate Internet rights
from the major broadcast channels -- Fox, CBS, NBC and ABC --
according to two people familiar with the negotiations. Fox, CBS
and NBC also are suing Dish over its AutoHop Ad-Skipper, which
allows Dish customers to instantly bypass commercials for
network shows the day after they’re first aired. Dish has filed
its own lawsuit against all four networks.  Aereo, based in New York, is in talks with a number of
cable networks, including Viacom, to get rights to an older
library of shows, similar to what’s available on Netflix,
according to two executives with knowledge of the discussions.
Aereo would pay for that content, unlike what it does with the
broadcast channels’ programming, according to the people.  Aereo  CEO Chet Kanojia said at an investor conference last
week that additional content would be packaged a la carte or in
“micropackages” for an additional $2 or $4 a month. The
company plans to pair the broadcast networks with independent
cable channels and new Internet-only products from network
companies to give customers streaming movies, news and sports.  Aereo charges  $8 a month plus tax  for its standard service,
which is only available in  New York City . Kanojia said he plans
to expand Aereo to as many as 15 markets before the end of 2013.  Dish already delivers an online service called DishWorld to
overseas audiences, who watch it using set-top boxes from Roku
Inc. Anthony Wood, CEO of Saratoga, California-based Roku, said
he has been approached by several media companies looking to
offer over-the-top services and expects to see some blossom in
the U.S. soon.  “We will see that in the next year,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  