-- Drug-Researcher Quintiles Looking at ’Tuck-In’ Deals
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-09-27T00:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/drug-researcher-quintiles-looking-at-tuck-in-deals.html
Quintiles Transnational Corp., the
biggest provider of drug-trial services to pharmaceutical
companies, may make acquisitions that are “tactical tuck-ins”
as it grows organically, Chief Executive Officer Tom Pike said.  The company is studying an initial public offering sometime
in the next 18 months after going private and restructuring its
business in 2003, two people familiar with the matter have said.  In the meantime, the Durham, North Carolina-based company is
looking at smaller deals that fit in with its contract research
and sales operations, Pike, who joined Quintiles in April, said
today during an interview at Bloomberg’s offices.  The company’s currently focused on growing organically,
according to Pike. Any acquisitions would be tuck-ins, he said.  Pike declined to comment on the potential IPO. “It’s a
 board  decision,” he said. “We do evaluate our  capital
structure  from time to time and are comfortable with it, but we
really can’t comment.”  Quintiles is among the contract-research organizations
whose revenue growth has accelerated as drugmakers outsource
trials, Moody’s Investors Service said in a Sept. 12 research
note. In 2008, Quintiles was bought by private-equity firms
including TPG Capital and Bain Capital LLC in a deal valued at
$3.8 billion, including debt, another person said.  The owners may be eager to start unwinding their investment
after  U.S. stocks  this month rallied to the highest since 2007,
encouraging private equity firms to sell companies bought during
the most recent buyout boom. A record $1.6 trillion in leveraged
buyouts were completed from 2005 to 2007, according to Preqin
Ltd., a London-based research firm.  Expanding Units  Since 2003 Quintiles has expanded its business units that
help drugmakers market and sell their products, and that
business line is now the company’s second biggest.  Quintiles has over $3 billion in annual sales, Pike said,
the majority of which comes from operations outside the U.S. He
sees  China  as a major growth area, especially with what he said
are more than 4,000 biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies
there that will need Quintiles’ services.  Pike, 53, joined the company after 22 years at the
consulting firm  Accenture Plc , where he ran its strategy
practices and was chief operating officer of the energy services
group. After retiring at 50, he consulted with a private equity
firm on a hospital business, and later was called by Quintiles
to lead the company.  “I view the fact that they have a new CEO now as
potentially a sign that they’re preparing their next leg of
growth or next strategy, which could include an IPO,” Jessica Gladstone, a New York-based senior analyst at Moody’s Investors
Service, said in an interview last week. “An IPO could also be
a way to reduce leverage and an exit strategy for the owners.”  The company hasn’t yet invited banks to pitch for roles on
the sale, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  