-- DSM Sees Profit at Low End of 2013 Target Range, Chief Says
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-09-27T08:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/dsm-sees-profit-at-low-end-of-2013-range-chief-says-correct-.html
Royal DSM NV (DSM)  Chief Executive
Officer Feike Sijbesma said the company is headed for the low
end of its target range for profit for 2013 and he remains
cautious about the near-term economic outlook.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization is forecast to reach about 1.4 billion euros ($1.8
billion), Heerlen, Netherlands-based DSM said today. It dropped
the top end of the range, which had extended to as much as 1.6
billion euros, and will also fall short on a target for the
return of capital employed of more than 15 percent next year.  “The macro-economic environment is tougher than before,”
Chief Financial Officer Rolf-Dieter Schwalb said. “That’s why
we have become more cautious about our earnings target for 2013
and we think we will arrive at the lower end of the range.”  Sijbesma will make the case for extending DSM’s reach into
higher-growth markets such as nutritional supplements as he
presents the company’s strategy to investors in Basel today.
Acquisitions have built a nutritional division with 4.4 billion
euros in annual sales.  Shares of DSM rose 1.2 percent to 39.42 euros as of 10.10
a.m. in Amsterdam trading, giving the company a market value of
7.15 billion euros.  “While the downgrade to 2013 guidance is disappointing,
this is not a major surprise,” said analyst Martin Dunwoodie
from Deutsche Bank in a note. Deutsche Bank already forecast a
revision, penciling in Ebitda of 1.3 billion euros next year.
The stock is “still not cheap enough” to review Deutsche
Bank’s hold recommendation on the stock, he said.  Job Cuts  DSM last month announced plans to cut 1,000 jobs across its
European operations making plastics and other products that are
suffering from higher raw-material prices and subdued demand, as
well as competition from new entrants in  Asia .  Sijbesma has steered DSM away from commodities into
enzymes, nutritional ingredients and specialty plastics. The
company has spent 2.2 billion euros on acquisitions since it
started the transformation two years ago, the majority of that
in the nutrition business. Takeover targets varied from babyfood
ingredients and animal nutrition to biomedical equipment makers
and yeast technology.  Last week, the company said it is in talks to buy Cargill’s
cultures and enzymes business, after announcing the takeover of
Brazilian animal nutrition supplier Tortuga in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  