-- DSM Chief Favors Takeovers in Nutrition to Expand Product Line
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-09-27T14:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/dsm-chief-favors-takeovers-in-nutrition-to-expand-product-line.html
Royal DSM NV (DSM) , the world’s largest
vitamins maker, is looking for acquisitions in its nutrition and
performance materials units to keep expanding its product
portfolio, Chief Executive Officer Feike Sijbesma said.  DSM has spent about 2.2 billion euros ($2.8 billion) on
takeovers in the past two years as Sijbesma turned the Dutch
company into a maker of nutritional supplements and engineering
plastics, shaking off its traditional commodity chemicals
businesses.  “A size of 400 to 500 million euros we like,” Sijbesma
said in an interview today at an investor event in Kaiseraugst,
 Switzerland , referring to the annual sales of a takeover target.
“Then you get a good feeling of the size of a company and you
can do a good due diligence.”  The majority of the last two years’ acquisitions, about 1.8
billion euros, were in the nutritional field, including babyfood
ingredients maker Martek and Ocean Nutrition  Canada , which
processes  fish oil  from  Peru , Canada and the U.S. The unit’s
sales reached about 4.4 billion euros on an annual basis in the
first half of 2012, DSM said today.  “The set of acquisitions we’ve done so far went relatively
smoothly, we didn’t encounter any problems or skeletons in the
closets,” Sijbesma said.  Value Doubled  DSM has been able to double ”the price we paid” looking
at the net present value of both Martek and Ocean Nutrition,
which are now worth 1.4 billion euros and 850 million euros,
Chief financial officer Rolf-Dieter Schwalb said today. The
Heerlen-based company still has 1 billion euros available for
acquisitions, the CFO added.  Takeovers in the performance materials unit, which is
exposed to markets such as automotive and building and
construction, have been harder to justify in the past two years,
Schwalb said. “But we will continue to look in that field as
well.”  Sijbesma said today the company is headed for the low
end of its target range for profit for 2013 and he remains
cautious about the near-term economic outlook. Earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization is forecast to
reach about 1.4 billion euros, DSM said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  