-- DuPont Seeks New Trial in $1 Billion Monsanto Patent Victory
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-09-27T22:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/dupont-seeks-new-trial-in-1-billion-monsanto-verdict-correct-.html
DuPont Co. (DD)  asked a U.S. judge to
overturn a $1 billion verdict won by Monsanto Co. in August over
genetically modified soybeans, saying the jury got it wrong on
all counts.  Monsanto’s patent on genetically modified crops that
survive the weedkiller Roundup is invalid, it wasn’t infringed,
and the damage award was too high, DuPont said in a series of
filings yesterday in federal court in Monsanto’s hometown of  St.
Louis .  Monsanto and DuPont are the two biggest companies in the
$34 billion commercial seed market. The jury on Aug. 1 decided
DuPont willfully infringed the patent by making soybeans that
combined the Roundup Ready trait with a similar DuPont
technology known as GAT.  Monsanto argued during the trial that DuPont violated a
licensing agreement and infringed the patent when it began
making soybeans that added the GAT trait. DuPont made the
combination to patch problems with GAT, Monsanto said.  DuPont claims the Roundup Ready patent doesn’t adequately
describe what it claims to have invented, is little different
from earlier inventions and fails other requirements to be
valid. It seeks to have the damage award reduced or thrown out,
or that DuPont be given a new trial on damages.  The legal arguments backing up DuPont’s requests are
sealed, as many of the documents in the case have been.  Monsanto is scheduled to file its response by Oct. 25.  Alternative Product  Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont, which generated $38
billion in revenue last year, never commercialized its product
combining Roundup Ready and GAT. Monsanto lawyers argued at
trial that DuPont shouldn’t have begun research on its
alternative product until the patent expires in September 2014.  DuPont also claimed Monsanto uses monopoly power to stifle
innovation, restricting use of Roundup Ready while making it
difficult for other companies to develop a competing trait.
Those antitrust claims were split off, and the two sides
yesterday proposed the trial be scheduled for October.  Monsanto has another case pending against DuPont and its
Pioneer Hi-Bred unit over a way to examine the genetics of a
seed without harming its ability to grow. DuPont contends the
patents in that case are invalid and not infringed. Pioneer has
its own case pending against Monsanto over a defoliaton
technique that increases the vigor of corn seed.  The case is  Monsanto Co. (MON)  v.  E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. ,
09cv686, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Missouri  (St.
Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net 
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  