-- ECB’s Weidmann Says Banking Union Can’t Cover Bad Debts
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-09-27T13:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/ecb-s-weidmann-says-banking-union-can-t-cover-bad-debts.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Jens Weidmann said the proposed banking union
can’t take responsibility for existing bad debts.  “In order to keep liability and control in balance, only
risks that have arisen after common supervision is established
can be taken under joint liability,” Weidmann, who heads
 Germany ’s Bundesbank, said at a speech in Berlin today. “The
legacy burdens on bank balance sheets have to be underwritten by
the countries under whose supervision they have arisen.”  Weidmann’s comments come after finance chiefs from Germany,
the Netherlands and  Finland  said this week that direct
recapitalization of banks by the euro area’s permanent bailout
fund should be a last resort and that legacy debts should remain
the responsibility of national authorities. European leaders
agreed in June that, as part of a prospective banking union,
banks would qualify for direct aid once an ECB-led supranational
supervisory mechanism has been established.  “Mutualization of risks can’t be the primary purpose of a
banking union,” Weidmann said. Allowing the euro-area bailout
fund to help ease the existing debts of banks would amount to
“financial transfers,” he said.  Irish Concerns  Irish bonds slumped this week on concern that a deal to cut
the nation’s legacy bank debt may unravel. Prime Minister  Enda Kenny ’s political opponents said the statement by the three AAA-
rated euro states was a setback to the government’s campaign to
win retroactive bank recapitalization.  German lawmakers are due to vote today on a non-binding
motion co-sponsored by  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s  Christian
Democratic Union  that would require banks to undergo a health
check before coming under joint supervision. The motion reflects
German reluctance to assume guarantees for the whole  euro zone 
as it moves toward closer coordination on banking.  Weidmann, in a speech titled “Trust -- Prerequisite for
Success of a Stable Currency,” also made veiled criticisms of
ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s bond-purchase plan.  Speaking of how the Chinese invented paper money around
1,000 A.D., he said the emperors of the time “knew the
importance of this invention and used it richly.”  “They produced more and more banknotes, but unfortunately
without withdrawing the old ones. The result wasn’t surprising:
Inflation.”  Weidmann said central banks mustn’t take on fiscal tasks,
and voiced concern about the side-effects of “ultra-expansive
monetary policy.”  “Central banks around the world have done a great deal to
avoid an escalation of the crisis, but many of the measures also
have unwanted consequences,” he said. “It is important and
right that central banks all over the world discuss how to
employ short-term measures in a way that trust in central banks
is maintained.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  