-- ECB Says Lending Contracts at Fastest Pace in Two Years
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-09-27T08:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/ecb-says-lending-contracts-at-fastest-pace-in-two-years-1-.html
Lending to households and companies
in the euro area contracted at the fastest pace in 2 1/2 years
in August amid an economic slump.  Loans to the private sector fell 0.6 percent from a year
earlier after declining an annual 0.4 percent in July, the
Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  said today. That’s the
steepest decline since January 2010. Lending was flat on the
month.  The 17-nation euro economy is on the brink of recession
after shrinking 0.2 percent in the second quarter. The sovereign
debt crisis, now in its third year, is making banks reluctant to
lend as well as curbing demand for credit. In addition to
flooding the banking system with more than 1 trillion euros
($1.29 trillion) of cheap cash to fend off a credit crunch, the
ECB has announced a new bond-purchase program to reduce
borrowing costs in countries like Spain and  Italy .  “Loans are still a very important indicator for the ECB,
because they show the impact of the long-term refinancing
operations, rate cuts and other measures,” said Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa International in  London .
“However, it’s always a reflection of the real economy, and
that has been quite gloomy, which depresses demand.”  Euro-area  consumer confidence  unexpectedly declined in
September, as services and manufacturing output slumped to a 39-
month low.  The rate of growth in M3  money supply , which the ECB uses
as a gauge of future inflation, fell to 2.9 percent in August
from 3.6 percent in July, the ECB said today.  M3 grew 3.2 percent in the three months through August from
the same period a year earlier. M3 is the broadest gauge of
money supply and includes cash in circulation, some forms of
savings and money-market holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  