-- Ecopetrol Says Rebel Attacks Falling Before Peace Talks
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-09-27T20:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/ecopetrol-says-rebel-attacks-falling-in-run-up-to-peace-talks.html
Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) ,  Colombia ’s largest
oil company, said attacks on its installations have declined
ahead of the first talks in a decade between the government and
rebels scheduled for next month.  “This month we had only three attacks, which is nothing
compared to the historical numbers,” Chief Financial Officer
Adriana Echeverri said today in an interview in London. “They
are dropping.”  Raids have declined since the Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia, or FARC, and the government agreed to meet in Oslo in
an attempt to end  Latin America ’s longest-running armed
conflict, Echeverri said. The rebels had stepped up attacks on
energy infrastructure earlier this year to deprive the
government of oil revenue.  Ecopetrol forecast a full-year output loss of about 9,000
barrels a day. The Bogota-based company has lost about 3,000
barrels of oil a day of production this month because of
guerrilla attacks on pipelines and fields, Echeverri said.
Ecopetrol expects to pump 780,000 barrels of oil and gas a day
this year, Chief Executive Officer Javier Gutierrez said to
reporters in  London  today.  Fewer Attacks  Fewer attacks would help Ecopetrol meet that target, which
it cut in July from 800,000 barrels a day, said Omar Escorcia,
an analyst at Medellin-based brokerage Asesores en Valores SA.
Attacks on pipelines in Colombia more than quadrupled to 88 in
the first seven months of the year from in the year-earlier
period, according to estimates by the  Defense Ministry .  “If there’s less of that activity you can ensure oil-
pipeline transport,” Escorcia said today in a phone interview.
“As attacks go down reliability goes up. That ends up reflected
in production figures.”  Shares of Ecopetrol rose 1.1 percent to 5,280 pesos at the
close in Bogota.  Gran Tierra Energy Inc. (GTE) , which said in July
that sabotage had cut output, rose 3.1 percent to C$5.04 in
Toronto.  The market value of Colombia’s state-owned producer has
risen more than fourfold since 2008 and more than 276,000 retail
investors in Colombia rely on dividend payments that account for
70 percent of earnings, Echeverri said. The government invited a
non-executive director from Ecopetrol to join the peace talks
with FARC, she said.  $80 Billion  “Our stakeholders, common people, individual
shareholders” at general meetings “push so hard to have that
70 percent,” Echeverri said. “The company has lots of
potential.” Ecopetrol will maintain the dividend “as long as
it is feasible in terms of the finance.”  The company is investing $80 billion in projects through
2020 to increase production to 1.3 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day. It expects to fund 9 percent of the expansion
in equity and 16 percent in debt with the rest from  cash flow .
The company doesn’t have any immediate plans to sell shares or
bonds, the CFO said.  The company has requested permission from a Bogota-based
financial regulator to sell debt, though no sale is imminent and
no amount for an issuance has been set, an official who can’t be
identified because of company policy said Sept. 25 in an e-mail.
Ecopetrol requested permission to sell 3 trillion pesos ($1.67
billion) in bonds and notes, according to the regulator’s
website.  Ecopetrol plans to participate in the exploration licensing
tender to be held by the government next month, Gutierrez said.
More than 80 companies are interested in bidding for more than
110 permits, of which about 30 will be for unconventional
resources. The company also expects to finish building the first
phase of its Bicentennial pipeline project in the first quarter,
he said.  The explorer expects to pump 50,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day, mostly gas, from so-called unconventional
fields in 2020, he said. First production is expected in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  