-- Ed DeMarco’s Unruly Dinner Guests
-- B y   D e b o r a h   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-09-27T20:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/ed-demarco-s-unruly-dinner-guests.html
Edward DeMarco may want to be late for dinner. About 150 protestors plan to gather in front of DeMarco's Maryland home this
afternoon to hand a pink slip to the acting director of the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency . Calling  themselves  the "Fannie Freddie 99 fighters," the
protestors plan to "fire" DeMarco for his continuing  resistance  to principal
forgiveness for loans backed by mortgage giants  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . They
intend to make "demands" that include "properly considering homeowners for
permanent affordable loan modifications" and "offering foreclosed properties to
former owners and/or local non-profits at value rather than selling to hedge
funds," according to a press release. The protest follows another  demonstration  that took place Thursday morning in
front of Fannie's Washington, D.C. office. That event, which disrupted traffic
on one of Washington's main traffic arteries for about 30 minutes, culminated in
the arrest of five people for refusing to get out of the road. It's not clear what effect the DeMarco protest might have other than enraging
his neighbors in the  Washington  suburb of  Silver Spring , who will no doubt
resent yet another demonstration interfering with their commute. The object of
attention -- DeMarco -- is unlikely to be home at 5 p.m. (This may be a
government town, but most top officials don't work 9-to-5 hours.) Still, it may help to keep pressure on DeMarco, whose intransigence is
keeping millions of homeowners from potential relief that would enable them to
keep their homes. About 4 million of the loans backed by Fannie and Freddie are
"underwater," meaning the mortgages are worth more than the home. As Bloomberg
View has  written , cutting a chunk of the outstanding principal could go a long
way toward restoring equity in those homes and preventing another wave of
foreclosures. One person whose home is not underwater is DeMarco. According to Maryland
property  records , DeMarco bought his three-bedroom, split-level brick home in
1992 for $230,000. It was most recently assessed at $424,020. DeMarco could no doubt increase the value of his home -- and many others --
by allowing principal forgiveness, since more foreclosures will only further
depress  home prices . True, the housing market is showing signs of life but it's
not out of the woods. Helping restore equity for people who need a little help
to stay in their homes would be a lot more fun for DeMarco than sleeping at the
office. ( Deborah Solomon  is a member of the Bloomberg View editorial board.  Follow 
her on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .