-- Egypt Sells Record 1-Year Debt as Aid Pledges Boost Confidence
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-09-27T14:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/egypt-sells-record-1-year-debt-as-aid-pledges-boost-confidence.html
Egypt  sold the most one-year
treasury bills on record, exceeding its target by 50 percent, as
investors bet the country will secure enough external financing
to avoid a  currency devaluation .  The  Finance Ministry  raised 6 billion pounds ($984 million)
at an auction of the one-year securities today, two billion more
than it sought, according to central bank data on Bloomberg.
That’s the biggest issuance since Bloomberg started tracking the
sales in 2006. The ministry also exceeded its six-month bill
sale target by 36 percent, selling 3.4 billion pounds.  Aid pledges by Qatar and  Turkey , as well the government’s
plan to conclude an $4.8 billion International Monetary Fund
loan agreement before the end of the year, have reignited demand
from foreign investors, who dumped local-currency debt after
last year’s uprising. Foreigners bought “10 percent or more”
of bonds auctioned on Sept. 23, Nidal Assr, head of the central
bank’s foreign-exchange management unit, said the following day.  Today’s auction “reflects the increased confidence in
Egypt with a stronger outlook for IMF support and positive
political development, which reduces fears of a sharp
devaluation in the Egyptian pound,”  Monica Malik , Dubai-based
chief economist at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said by phone. “The
auction results were likely helped by an increase in foreign
flows back into the T-bill market.”  ‘More Positive Lens’  The government’s borrowing costs have tumbled this month
after Prime Minister Hisham Qandil said Egypt had no current
plans to devalue the currency, which is subject to a managed
float. The average yield on one-year notes fell 22 basis points,
or 0.22 percentage point, to a one-year low of 13.588 percent,
central bank data show. It plunged 120 basis points in the
previous sale. The average yield on the six-month securities
dropped 11 basis points to 13.059 percent, the lowest since last
October.  The pound was little changed at 6.0958 a dollar as of 3:53
p.m. in Cairo. It has weakened 4.6 percent since last year’s
revolt ousted President  Hosni Mubarak , outperforming Turkey’s
lira,  India ’s rupee and  Brazil ’s real.  “I have not made any decision about going back in yet but
we are certainly looking at it through a more positive lens,”
Richard Odumodu, London-based head of fixed income at Silk
Invest Ltd., said by phone. “We have become more constructive
about what’s going on in Egypt in terms of clear support from
various bilateral parties, particularly from the Gulf.”  Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds maturing in April 2020
climbed for a fourth day today, gaining three basis points to
5.81 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  