-- Election Hinges on Sliver of Voters Yet to Make Up Their Minds
-- B y   J o s h u a   G r e e n
-- 2012-09-27T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/election-hinges-on-sliver-of-voters-yet-to-make-up-their-minds.html
You’ve heard about them for months.
The press obsesses about them. Political scientists toil to
understand them. The campaigns are consumed with trying to win
them over.  They are undecided voters -- and at a time when Americans
are being blitzed by 43,000 political ads a day, according to
 Kantar Media’s CMAG , they remain impervious to persuasion. Who
are these people who hold the country’s fate in their hands? And
why can’t they make up their minds?  Campaign professionals see undecideds as comprising two
distinct groups: one whose members follow the news and have
still found cause to withhold their support, and another that
has yet to tune in and may not until the October presidential
debates, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Oct. 1 issue.  The first group is “not nearly as partisan as those who’ve
already picked a candidate,” says  John Brabender , chief
strategist in former Senator  Rick Santorum ’s Republican
presidential primary campaign. “They swing their vote much more
often. Many are actually registered as Republican or Democrat
but have only a loose connection to their party.”  Deep Frustration  What they share is a deep sense of frustration. In a
Sept. 17 focus group of undecided voters in Fairfax County,
 Virginia , conducted by the Democratic pollster Peter Hart for
the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Annenberg Public Policy Center,
feelings were almost uniformly negative. Hart went around the
room asking participants to describe how they feel about the
presidential campaign in a word or phrase.  Their answers included: “removed -- ambivalent --
 negative -- very negative -- cheap slugfest -- confused --
 contentious.”  Then he asked them to describe  Mitt Romney , the Republican
nominee: “stiff -- evasive -- uppity -- unfriendly.”  President  Barack Obama  fared no better: “overly confident -
- unrealistic -- arrogant -- hollow.”  A.J. Morning, a 41-year-old computer technician from
Springfield, Virginia, summed up the group’s mood when he told
Hart that the country is “mired in a bowl of stupid.”  These attitudes reflect the broader findings of political
scientists. Among the most comprehensive continuing studies of
undecideds is a YouGov poll for the  Cooperative Campaign
Analysis Project  that has tracked 1,543 of them since January.  Low Regard  These voters span the political spectrum while differing
from typical Democrats and Republicans in their low regard for
their party’s candidate, according to  University of California 
at Los Angeles professor Lynn Vavreck and Vanderbilt University
professor Larry Bartels, who analyzed the results.  The analysis showed that only 8 percent of undecided
Democrats like Obama a lot, vs. 65 percent of Democrats who’ve
made up their minds to vote for him; a brutal 1 percent of
undecided Republicans like Romney a lot, while 35 percent say
they personally dislike him.  Another hurdle for campaigns is that many undecideds are
so-called low-information voters -- they have only a dim
awareness of what’s going on. The YouGov poll found that just
40 percent could identify  John Boehner  as the speaker of the
House.  In Hart’s focus group, one participant wrongly believed
that Romney planned to raise the Social Security eligibility age
to 75, another that Obama had erred in not visiting  New Orleans 
immediately after  Hurricane Katrina ;  George W. Bush  was
president at the time.  ‘Unknowings’  The other group of undecided voters, those who haven’t
tuned in yet, will draw on an even thinner grasp of politics.
They tend not to follow current events and thus don’t respond to
the normal methods of persuasion. Brabender calls them
“unknowings” and says they can’t be reached by advertising on
 Fox News  or  MSNBC .  “If you’re watching Fox, you already know who you’re voting
for,” he says. This group tends to be younger, concentrated in
rural and suburban areas, and more apt to watch prime-time
network TV than news shows, which means its members are more
expensive to reach through ads.  Advances in data mining have helped media strategists
understand the habits and preferences of undecideds with uncanny
specificity. According to research shared with Bloomberg
Businessweek by  National Media Research, Planning & Placement ,
which buys TV ads for campaigns, high-turnout swing voters tend
to drive Saabs, drink Caffeine-Free Diet Pepsi and Corona Light,
listen to adult contemporary music, and watch Turner Classic
Movies and “The Office.”  Reality TV Fans  They also have a special fondness for reality TV.  “In 2010 the research pointed to reality and talent
competition programs and shows such as ‘Dancing with the Stars’
and ‘ Pawn Stars ,’” says Will Feltus, the company’s senior vice
president. “Comedies are also good for reaching swing voters.
‘Big Bang Theory’ and ‘Two and a Half Men’ work well.”  Combined, these undecided voters represent somewhere
between 2 percent and 8 percent of the vote and are hard to
reach. Yet the campaigns will certainly feel compelled to try.  The closeness of the race and the stability of Romney’s and
Obama’s coalitions mean people who can’t make up their minds
could well tip the balance.  If either campaign can reach them, it won’t need to inspire
hope or change -- just convince them that its candidate
represents the lesser of two evils.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Green in Washington at 
 jgreen120@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  