-- JPMorgan Sees Emerging-Market Debt in ‘Sweet Spot’ as QE3 Starts
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-09-27T21:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/emerging-market-debt-in-sweet-spot-jpmorgan-s-chang-says-1-.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s third round
of bond buying is putting  emerging-market corporate  and
sovereign debt is in a “sweet spot,” according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s Joyce Chang.  The quantitative easing, known as QE3, is reducing bond
supply and prompting investors to seek higher-yielding debt from
developing nations, Chang, the global head of emerging-market
research at JPMorgan, said yesterday at a conference at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. Dollar-denominated
government debt in developing countries has returned 14 percent
this year as corporate securities advanced 12 percent, according
to JPMorgan indexes. Treasuries gained 2.4 percent.  Emerging markets  “are still in a sweet spot,” said Chang,
whose emerging-market team was ranked the best by Institutional
Investor. “Modest” borrowing by emerging-market governments
and companies has avoided a supply glut, she said.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which oversees the
world’s largest bond fund, favors local-currency bonds in
Brazil, Mexico and  South Africa  as slower economic growth allows
the countries to keep  interest rates  low, according to Lupin Rahman, an executive vice president at the Newport Beach,
California-based company.  “My favorite investment in the emerging-market space is
really the local rate space, given the much weaker global
economic environment we are seeing,” Rahman said at the event.  Brazil’s real, which has lost 8 percent this year, is
Pimco’s “currency of choice,” she said.  Commodity Currencies  JPMorgan’s Chang said she favors commodity-related
currencies including the Russian ruble, Mexico’s peso and the
real.  Alberto Ades, the head of emerging-market fixed-income
strategy and global economics at Bank of America Corp., also
likes the currencies as the Fed’s QE3 weakens the dollar.  Developing countries’ equities are in the middle of a
“ bear market ” as the credit expansion in nations such as
Brazil and China starts to reverse, according to  Michael Shaoul ,
the chairman of Marketfield Asset Management.  “Emerging-market equities should be avoided in general,”
Shaoul said at the event.  The  MSCI Emerging Market Index (MXEF)  has advanced 8.9 percent
this year, trimming its loss since its peak in May 2011 to 17
percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks has
climbed 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  