-- Emerging Stocks Rise on China Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-09-27T21:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/emerging-stocks-rebound-from-biggest-drop-in-two-months.html
Emerging-market stocks rebounded
from a two-week low as commodities rallied on speculation  China 
will do more to support economic growth and bolster equities.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index advanced 0.8 percent to
998.36 at 5:26 p.m. in  New York , its first gain in four days.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong climbed 1.5 percent as  Citic Securities Co. (6030) ,
China’s biggest listed brokerage, jumped on speculation the
government will take steps to boost the stock market. Equity
gauges in Colombia and Hungary surged more than 1 percent.  The Shanghai Securities News reported that there is
speculation the China Securities Regulatory Commission will
announce market-boosting measures. Spanish protesters marched in
Madrid this week as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  presented a
package of budget cuts. Orders for U.S. durable goods fell.  “China is the last major economy where you can see
significant easing go on as  Europe  can’t do too much more and
nor can America,” Gavin Redknap, an emerging-markets strategist
at Nikko Asset Management, said by phone from  London . “The
market will seize any good news we hear from China.”  Commodities Gain  The S&P GSCI  index  of raw materials advanced. Copper for
delivery in three months rose in London on speculation stimulus
measures in China, the largest consumer of the metal, will boost
demand. Crude oil rallied. The Russian ruble and  Indian Rupee 
gained.  The Shanghai Composite Index surged 2.6 percent, the most
among benchmark indexes in emerging markets. The Jakarta
Composite index advanced 1.1 percent and  Thailand ’s SET Index
added 0.9 percent.  The emerging-markets index has surged 6.5 percent this
quarter as central banks from Europe, the U.S.,  Japan  and China
took action to stimulate economic growth. The measure has
advanced 5.4 percent this month.  A  gauge  of technology companies rose 0.9 percent, second
among all 10 industry groups in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF) 
The developing-nations MSCI gauge has risen 8.9 percent this
year and trades at 11.3 times estimated earnings, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That compares with a multiple of 13.3 times
for the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed countries, which has
increased 12 percent in 2012.  China Profits  A government report showed Chinese industrial companies’
profits dropped for a fifth month in August, and a  Bank of Korea 
 index  of manufacturers’ confidence fell from the previous month
to stay near its lowest level since 2009. The reports spurred
speculation the governments will do more to support growth.  South Africa’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  advanced 0.6
percent, buoyed by commodity exporters including Anglo American
Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd.  “Global growth is on a lower trajectory and stimulus
measures may bring a rebound in certain sectors that have been
under stress,” Gopal Agrawal, chief investment officer at the
Indian unit of Mirae Asset Financial Group in Mumbai, said in a
telephone interview.  Chile’s IPSA Index gained 0.3 percent as Banco de Chile
rose to a two-week high after the Santiago newspaper  El Mercurio 
reported that the country’s largest lender by assets hired
McKinsey to advise on commercial strategy.  Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  of stocks gained 1.5 percent as OTP
Bank Nyrt., the nation’s biggest lender, jumped 2 percent. The
PX Index in the Czech Republic added 1 percent, while Poland’s
 WIG 20 Index (WIG20)  advanced 0.8 percent.  In China, Citic Securities climbed 3.9 percent, its first
advance in a week. Haitong Securities Co. jumped 6.4 percent in
 Hong Kong . Samsung Electronics, the world’s largest mobile-phone
seller, advanced 1 percent to its highest close since Aug. 16.
Barclays raised its 2013 operating profit estimates by 8 percent
to 36.4 trillion won, according to analysts led by S.C. Bae.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell six basis points to 303,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 