-- Tempur-Pedic Agrees to Acquire Sealy for $2.20 a Share
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e ,   J a m e s   C a l l a n   a n d   J o h n   H e l y a r
-- 2012-09-27T21:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/tempur-pedic-agrees-to-acquire-sealy-for-2-20-a-share.html
Tempur-Pedic International Inc. (TPX) 
agreed to buy  Sealy Corp. (ZZ)  for about $229 million, combining the
two biggest publicly traded mattress companies and ending a more
than 20-year run of private-equity ownership in a deal that sent
both stocks higher.  The offer of $2.20 a share is 2.8 percent more than Sealy’s
closing price yesterday. Tempur-Pedic, a pioneer of memory-foam
mattresses based in Lexington,  Kentucky , will assume or repay
all of Sealy’s outstanding and convertible debt, for a total
deal value to $1.3 billion, according to a statement today.  The two bedding companies, both owned by private equity in
the past, took divergent paths over the past two decades.
Tempur-Pedic, founded in 1992, last year became the biggest
publicly traded mattress maker by revenue as sales rose 28
percent to $1.42 billion. Sealy, a 131-year-old company that
became a household name, fell to No. 2 with $1.23 billion of
revenue and saw its  shares  plunge more than 90 percent from its
2006 initial public offering to its low point in 2011.  Heightened competition in Tempur-Pedic’s upscale niche has
slowed sales growth and caused a more than 60 percent drop in
its shares since an April 18 peak. Chief Executive Officer Mark Sarvary said the Sealy combination will spur renewed growth.  “Our success in growing the specialty category has
attracted new entrants,” Sarvary told an analyst teleconference
today. “It recently had an adverse impact on our business. The
merger with Sealy enables us to compete across the whole
market.”  Shareholder’s Opposition  Sealy’s second-largest shareholder, H Partners Management
LLC, opposed the deal. In a letter today to the board of
Trinity, North Carolina-based Sealy, the fund said it was
“extremely troubled” the directors didn’t seek approval from
all of the company’s owners.  Shareholders owning more than 51 percent of Sealy’s stock
and the boards of both companies have approved the deal, the
companies said in their statement. H Partners owns 17 percent of
Sealy’s stock, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “We demand that the board fulfill its fiduciary duty to
maximize value for all shareholders,” Usman Nabi and Arik Ruchim of H Partners wrote in the letter. “We reserve all
rights to pursue legal remedies to protect the value of our
investment.”  Sealy in March came under public criticism by H Partners
and FPR Partners LLC, the company’s third-largest shareholder,
over the role of private-equity firm  KKR & Co. (KKR)  in helping run
the mattress maker. The  hedge funds  said KKR, which owns 44
percent of Sealy, overloaded the company with debt and made
strategic errors that reduced its earnings by half.  ‘Responsible Partner’  Sealy in response called the claims “combative” and
unhelpful. In a March 23 letter, the company said KKR “has been
a responsible partner” and said the board’s composition meets
 New York  Stock Exchange guidelines for independence.  Mattress makers had been popular targets for private-equity
firms until the economic crisis led to a slump in demand.
Tempur-Pedic, which a decade ago was owned by TA Associates
Inc., is gaining brands including Sealy Posturepedic and Stearns
& Foster from Sealy.  Sealy, which has had five buyout-firm owners since 1989,
was acquired by New York-based KKR in March 2004 for about $1.5
billion from an investment group that included Bain Capital LLC,
the private-equity firm previously led by Republican
Presidential candidate  Mitt Romney . KKR paid $5.78 a share for
the bedding maker and took it public two years later for $16 a
share. The stock peaked at $17.90 in April 2007 and slumped
during the U.S. recession that started later that year. It never
recovered to pre-crisis highs.  Lower Forecast  Sealy  rose  2.3 percent to close at $2.19 in New York. The
shares gained 24 percent this year through yesterday. Tempur-
Pedic gained 14 percent, the  most since  April 2009, to $30.64
after declining 49 percent this year through yesterday.  Tempur-Pedic has seen its stock more than double since its
2003 initial public offering. The  shares  in April started to
slump after the company affirmed its 2012 earnings and sales
forecast, which fell short of analysts’ estimates. In June,
Tempur-Pedic lowered its full-year profit and revenue forecasts,
citing a slump in sales in April and May amid increased
competition.  Today’s transaction, which is expected to be completed in
the first half of 2013, will create cost savings of more than
$40 million by the third year, the companies said.  Tempur-Pedic, which sells some mattresses for more than
$9,000, specializes in non-spring mattresses, making its
products with pressure-absorbing foam that draws on technology
first used by  NASA  to support astronauts in spacecraft.  Pricier Products  Sealy derives about half its sales from  mid-priced
mattresses  that retail for $599 to $999, according to regulatory
filings and data compiled by Bloomberg. The company in the past
two years has moved to bolster its pricier product lines,
producing its first foam mattress, Embody, in 2010 and creating
a specialty division to develop new-technology product lines in
2011. Posturepedic Optimum, a line of gel-based mattresses,
arrived in stores this year.  “Now, Tempur-Pedic can capture share at the low end memory
foam market place and be less concerned about the negative
impact on its premium priced products,” Peter Keith, an analyst
at Piper Jaffray & Co., said today in a note to clients.  Sealy’s heavy concentration in mid-priced mattresses
represents a risk to Tempur-Pedic, according to  Kevin Cassidy ,
an analyst at Moody’s Corp. who follows the bedding industry.
While sales of high-end and low-end mattresses have been
growing, mid-price products have trailed.  Rogers’s Role  Since 1989, Sealy has traded hands from Gibbons, Green &
van Amerongen Ltd. to Clipper Group to Zell/Chillmark Fund LP to
Bain to KKR. Bain led a group buying Sealy in 1997 for $833
million and made more than five times its original equity
investment upon selling the company seven years later to KKR,
the buyout firm led by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts .  Lawrence J. Rogers, the Sealy CEO, has worked at the
mattress company for 33 years and will remain in his role,
reporting to Sarvary, the companies said today. Rogers was
picked in 2008 to follow David McIlquham, an 18-year Sealy
veteran retained by KKR from Bain’s ownership of the company.
KKR said in December that Rogers would retire by the end of
2012.  ‘Cheap Price’  Sealy is unlikely to get a higher bid, said Piper Jaffray’s
Keith. Tempur-Pedic’s $2.20 a share offer “is a cheap price for
a strong brand that appears to be in the early stages of a
turnaround,” according to Keith.  Sealy’s bonds rose on the deal’s announcement. The
company’s $268.9 million of 8.25 percent bonds due June 2014
climbed 1.5 cents to 101.5 cents on the dollar to yield 7.29
percent as of 10:07 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The bonds last traded at par on Sept. 24.  Bank of America Corp.  was Tempur-Pedic’s financial adviser
and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  advised Sealy. Bingham McCutchen LLP provided
legal advice to Tempur-Pedic, and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
served in that role for Sealy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
James Callan in New York at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net ;
John Helyar in Atlanta  at 
 jhelyar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  