-- H&M Profit Misses Analyst Estimates as Gap to Inditex Widens
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-09-27T15:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/hennes-mauritz-reports-net-income-below-analysts-estimates.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest clothing retailer, reported third-quarter profit
that missed estimates and delayed the start of online operations
in the U.S. as it falls further behind Zara owner  Inditex (ITX)  SA.  Net income rose 0.9 percent to 3.62 billion kronor ($550
million) in the three months ended Aug. 31, Stockholm-based H&M
said today, compared with the 4.05 billion-kronor  average
estimate  of 14 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  H&M fell the most in almost five months in  Stockholm 
trading. The retailer has struggled to keep pace with the growth
of larger competitor Inditex, which last week reported profit
that beat estimates. H&M said today that  profit margins  shrank
in the quarter, hurt by increased costs in Asia, a week after
saying a heat wave in Europe caused sales to miss estimates.  “Inditex is fast-fashion so it has a compelling product,
which sells whatever the weather, whatever the macro-economic
conditions,”  Anne Critchlow , a London-based analyst at  Societe
Generale , said by phone. “Inditex is rolling out online very
rapidly, boosting like-for-like sales growth and has very high
exposure to fast-developing  emerging markets .”  H&M  fell  5.8 percent to 232.20 kronor at the close of
trading in Stockholm, the steepest drop since May 4. The stock
has risen 4.9 percent this year,  trailing Inditex’s  52 percent
gain. Inditex dropped 2.8 percent in  Madrid  today.  Margin Shrinks  While H&M’s sales in the quarter increased 10 percent at
local currency rates, the  gross margin  narrowed to 58.2 percent
from 58.6 percent a year earlier, the company said. Inditex said
last week that its gross margin widened to 59.6 percent in the
first half from 58.4 percent a year earlier.  Lower cotton prices, which analysts had expected to boost
profitability, had a “neutral to positive effect,” H&M said.
Currency shifts, mainly the strength of the krona against the
euro, reduced profit by about 200 million kronor.  “I’m surprised that cotton was not more of a benefit to
gross margin in the third quarter because the commodity price
more than halved last year -- the benefit should now be flowing
through to H&M,” Critchlow said.  The Swedish retailer sources 75 percent of products from
 Asia , where labor costs are rising, Critchlow said. Inditex gets
50 percent of its merchandise from “proximity countries,”
mainly Spain and  Portugal , and 15 percent from  Turkey , she said.
H&M said today it expects the impact of sourcing and currency
shifts to be “neutral” in the fourth quarter.  U.S. Online Delay  H&M’s plan to introduce online sales in the U.S. will be
delayed until summer next year after adapting to the market
there took longer than expected, Chief Executive Officer Karl- Johan Persson told journalists in Stockholm today.  “The main issue at present is marrying the costs of
distribution to the likely profitability of the products, given
H&M’s relatively low price points,” Jamie Merriman, a retail
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said of the delay.  In contrast, H&M said it will step up store expansion,
adding about 300 outlets in the financial year through November
compared with a previous estimate of 275.  The retailer, which sells jeans for less than 30 euros
($39), has focused expansion on Asia and the U.S. to help offset
a slowdown in European  consumer spending  as the region’s economy
edges toward its second recession in three years. Inditex said
on Sept. 19 that sales have accelerated since July, helped by
expansion in emerging markets.  “Conditions in the fashion retail industry continued to be
challenging in many markets -- both as regards the weather and
the macroeconomic climate,” H&M’s Persson said in a statement.  Sales in the period Sept. 1 to 25 were up 14 percent,
adjusting for calendar effects and currency shifts, the company
said today. The retailer didn’t have more price cuts or sales in
the third quarter than previously, Persson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  