-- Entergy Sues U.S. for Failure to Dispose of Nuclear Waste
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-09-27T19:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/entergy-sues-u-s-for-failure-to-dispose-of-nuclear-waste.html
An  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  unit sued the U.S.
for $100 million alleging the government breached a contract for
disposal of nuclear waste at two plants in Michigan.  Entergy Nuclear Palisades LLC, owner of the  Palisades 
Nuclear Plant and the  Big Rock Point  plant, alleged yesterday
that the Energy Department collected fees under a 1983 contract
without ever starting to dispose of the radioactive material.
The suit is in the  U.S. Court of Federal Claims  in  Washington .  Entergy and a previous owner of the shuttered Big Rock
Point plant “have fully complied with all their fee payment
obligations under the contract,” according to the complaint.
“The government, however, has failed to perform its reciprocal
obligation to dispose of spent nuclear fuel, and currently has
no plan to meet these obligations.”  Entergy’s lawsuit is the latest legal challenge stemming
from the federal government’s failure to create a central, long-
term facility to store nuclear waste.  Most nuclear-plant owners continue to store spent nuclear
fuel onsite despite contributing for decades into a fund meant
to finance a central waste depository.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission is freezing U.S.
operating licenses for at least two years as it reassesses
waste-storage risks and strategies in response to a June 8 order
by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington.  Entergy Corp., based in  New Orleans , is the second-largest
owner of nuclear plants in the U.S.  Through June 30, Entergy and Consumers Energy Co., the
former owner of Big Rock Point, have paid about $274 million
into the fund under the contract, the company said.  Charles Miller , a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Entergy Nuclear Palisades LLC v. U.S., 12-cv-
1641, U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in  Chicago 
at   jjohnsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 