-- EON, RWE Close Bidding for U.K. Horizon Nuclear Venture
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-09-28T09:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/eon-rwe-close-bidding-for-u-k-horizon-nuclear-venture.html
EON AG (EOAN)  and  RWE AG (RWE) , the German
utilities dropping out of Britain’s atomic-power program, are
due to close the bidding today on their Horizon nuclear venture
in the country after rising costs prompted their withdrawal.  A group combining  Areva SA (AREVA)  and  China  Guangdong Nuclear
Power Group Co., a Hitachi Ltd.-led partnership, and a third
comprising Westinghouse Electric Co. and China’s State Nuclear
Power Technology Corp. are the likely bidders, Malcolm Grimston,
an analyst at  Chatham House  in London, said by phone.  Britain, seeking to replace aging power stations and cut
carbon-dioxide emissions, is one of only three western European
countries still pursuing plans for new nuclear plants following
last year’s Fukushima disaster. Areva and  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s
Westinghouse have already submitted designs to the government
for reactors and received preliminary regulatory approval.  “Areva and Westinghouse were the technology suppliers
bidding into Horizon in the first place and are already in the
Generic Design Assessment process,” Daniel Grosvenor, head of
the nuclear team at Deloitte LLP in London, said by phone. “The
Hitachi group has some catching up to do.”  Areva said July 7 it would team up with China Guangdong
Nuclear and other utilities to bid for Horizon, and remains the
only company to have confirmed its intentions. Westinghouse may
join State Nuclear Power Technology to buy a stake, the
Financial Times reported in July, while Hitachi may also be
interested, the FT said.  U.K. Investment  Horizon has government support to site reactors in  Wales 
and western  England . Britain says it needs 110 billion pounds
($178 billion) of investment by 2020 to replace atomic plants,
upgrade grids and cut emissions. It gets about 22 percent of its
electricity from nuclear, a similar proportion to the U.S., and
is seeking to spur the development of new reactors through a
bill that guarantees power contracts.  That encouragement was insufficient to maintain the
commitment of EON and RWE, which backed away from the Horizon
project in March, citing the high cost of capital. That left
Electricite de France SA,  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA as the
only developers progressing U.K. nuclear plans.  Horizon is likely to attract bids of at least 300 million
pounds with a “possibility to get significantly more,” said
Tony Roulstone, director of the University of Cambridge’s
masters program in nuclear energy.  Officials at EON, RWE and the Horizon venture all declined
today to comment on the bidding process.  Reactor Approvals  British regulators on Dec. 14 issued “interim” approvals
of Areva’s European Pressurized Reactor design and the AP1000
model from Westinghouse, and asked the companies to resolve a
list of technical concerns. The reactor makers incurred
regulatory costs of more than 25 million pounds apiece to get to
that stage, according to the Office for Nuclear Regulation.  Hitachi’s Advanced Boiling Water Reactor, which it makes
with General Electric Co., has been licensed in the U.S.,  Taiwan 
and  Japan , and is yet to seek U.K. approval. Keisaku Shibatani,
a Hitachi spokesman, declined to comment on any bid, citing the
“other parties involved.”  While Areva this year continued to resolve questions
identified by regulators, Westinghouse paused its work until it
has a U.K. customer, Westinghouse U.K. Chief Executive Officer
Mike Tynan said yesterday in a phone interview.  ‘Basket of Issues’  “There’s a basket of issues but there’s not one in itself
that would provide a major roadblock” to eventual approval,
Tynan said. He declined to comment on Horizon or confirm whether
Westinghouse is bidding with State Nuclear Power Technology.
It’s already working with the Chinese utility to build four
reactors in Sanmen and Haiyang in China.  Areva’s EPR reactor is being built in Finland, France and
China, giving the 1,650-megawatt facility more cost certainty, a
company spokeswoman said.  “There’s a whole bunch of people running around telling
you that they think they know what it costs to build a nuclear
power station, and they don’t,” said Dominic Nash, an analyst
in  London  at Liberum Capital Ltd. “The only people who can
really afford that risk are going to be large sovereign wealth
funds or nationalized companies, hence EDF and the Chinese
consortia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 