-- Tesco Seen Overshadowed by Sainsbury as Grocery Battle Escalates
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-09-27T23:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/tesco-seen-overshadowed-by-sainsbury-as-grocery-battle-escalates.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest
supermarket company, may report the first signs of a recovery in
domestic sales next week, though its progress is likely to be
outshone by the superior performance of J  Sainsbury (SBRY)  Plc.  While Tesco may say it almost halted four quarters of
decline in U.K. same-store sales, Sainsbury will probably report
an extension of an unbroken growth record that stretches back to
2005, according to  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Both
companies are scheduled to report on Oct. 3.  As Tesco is trying to win back customers disillusioned by
the level of service, stores and food quality, Sainsbury is
maintaining a push that has seen it increase share of the
grocery market by more than 1 percentage point to 16.5 percent
over the last eight years. Sainsbury’s upscale and budget ranges
have better suited customers seeking discounts, while at the
same time wanting to treat themselves.  “Tesco can’t change consumer perceptions overnight,” said
Natalie Berg, an analyst at Planet Retail in  London  said. The
Cheshunt, England-based grocer “has been focusing so much on
delivering value they have neglected the fact people are still
looking for little luxuries when they walk into a supermarket.”  In an effort to halt Tesco’s decline, Chief Executive
Officer  Philip Clarke  has introduced money-off coupons, revamped
the Everyday Value line of budget foods, increased staffing and
begun a program of store makeovers. He plans to spend 1 billion
pounds ($1.6 billion) this year on improving the business.  Tesco may say U.K. sales at stores open at least a year at
fell 0.1 percent in the fiscal second quarter, according to the
average estimate of 10 analysts compiled by Bloomberg, compared
with a drop of 1.5 percent in the previous three-month period.  Share Underperformance  It may take “a good 18 months before we see a meaningful
turnaround,” according to Berg.  “You don’t just improve stores and standards and instantly
expect to win back customers,” said James Collins, an analyst
at Deutsche Bank AG in London with a buy recommendation on
Tesco. “It takes time for people to change their habits.”  Shares of Tesco, which in January lowered profit guidance
for the first time in 20 years, have fallen 17 percent this
year, while Sainsbury has gained 15 percent.  Same-store sales at Sainsbury probably gained 1.3 percent
in its fiscal second quarter, the estimates show, little changed
from the previous quarter’s 1.4 percent growth.  Sainsbury, which sponsored the London  Paralympic Games  this
summer, has been buoyed by its Brand Match campaign, which
promises shoppers their basket will cost the same as rivals or
they receive a coupon at the till with the difference.  ‘Broader Audience’  The Brand Match strategy and promotions “have opened the
retailer up to a broader audience through improvements in price
perceptions,” according to  Richard Cathcart, an analyst at
Espirito Santo with a neutral recommendation on the stock.  Tesco hasn’t been losing out just to Sainsbury. Discounters
such as Aldi and Lidl and the upscale Waitrose chain have also
added to their share, while Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda has used
its Price Guarantee campaign to win shoppers.  Tesco’s share of the U.K. grocery market fell to a near
seven-year low of 29.7 percent earlier this year, before
rebounding to 30.8 percent in the 12 weeks ended Sept. 2,
according to researcher  Kantar Worldpanel .  For Tesco, the crucial part of next week’s report “is
second-quarter evidence of better U.K. relative sales
performance,” said  James Grzinic , an analyst at Jefferies
International in London. While “major vouchering activity” has
helped, “we expect Tesco to flag that in-store improvements are
delivering a much enhanced customer experience.”  Store Revamps  Tesco has only revamped about 100 of its more than 2,900
U.K. stores so far, while the number of hours worked by staff
each week has increased by 300,000 since April.  The grocer surprised investors in January when it said it
expected “minimal” growth in group trading profit this year.
It may say next week that earnings on that basis fell to 1.62
billion pounds in the first half, according to the median
estimate of 12 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Among the reasons for the decline in earnings will be a
restriction of Sunday trading hours in  South Korea , Tesco’s
second-largest market after the U.K., according to Nick Coulter,
an analyst at Nomura. Coulter also cited “stability as opposed
to growth” at Tesco Bank, where the retailer has pushed back
the introduction of so-called current accounts, as well as “a
more measured recovery profile” at the U.S. Fresh & Easy chain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  