-- Metro Fuel Oil Files Bankruptcy in Brookly With Sale Plan
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-09-27T15:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/metro-fuel-oil-files-bankruptcy-in-brookly-with-sale-plan.html
Metro Fuel Oil Co. , a closely held
provider of heating oil, construction site fueling and central
air conditioning, filed for bankruptcy with a proposed
investment from the real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell  and a plan
to sell the company in 90 days.  A Chapter 11 petition filed today in  Brooklyn , New York,
where the company is based, listed as much as $50 million in
assets and $100 million in debt. Kirkland & Ellis LLP is the
company’s bankruptcy counsel.  David Johnston , a managing director at the company’s
financial adviser, AlixPartners LLP, the company’s proposed
chief restructuring officer, said in a court filing that it
seeks to borrow $10 million to fund operations in bankruptcy.  A “liquidity squeeze” brought on the bankruptcy filing,
and a sale of all of the company’s access is planned within
90 days, Johnston said in court papers.  Prior to the bankruptcy, Metro Fuel Oil’s outstanding long-
term secured debt was about $58.8 million, consisting of
$48.3 million of bank debt and $10.5 million of  project
financing  related to a new biodiesel plant. The company also
estimates its trade creditors have claims or around $10 million,
according to the filing.  Nine Units  The bankruptcy petition included nine other units and
listed its largest unsecured creditors as Bayside Fuel Oil Depot
Corp. and Ameranda Hess Corp.  The proposed $10 million loan will be provided by Third
Avenue Management LLC’s special situations fund and Zell’s Zell
Credit Opportunities Master Fund LP, according to court papers.
The loan is tied to the planned bankruptcy sale.  The billionaire was said in July to be seeking $1 billion
for his Equity Group Investments LLC’s next distressed private-
equity fund. Two people familiar with the matter told  Bloomberg
News  at the time that the new fund would make investments
including asset acquisitions, secondary-market purchases and
give rescue capital to cash-strapped companies.  Equity Group’s first fund owns a stake in Texas utility
Energy Future Holdings Corp., the people also told Bloomberg
News. The company, formerly known as TXU Corp., was taken
private by KKR & Co. and TPG Capital for $43.2 billion in 2007,
the biggest leveraged buyout in history.  Other investments of the first fund include Blockbuster
LLC, Domino’s Pizza Inc., Hilton Hotels Holdings Corp. and
Marriott International Inc.  The case is In re Metro Fuel Oil Corp., 1:12-46913,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in  New York 
at   tkary@bloomberg.net . 