-- Bank Union Feeds Swedish Capital Feud as Nordea Defies Borg
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-09-28T10:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/eu-bank-union-feeds-swedish-capital-feud-as-nordea-opposes-borg.html
Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  wants Swedish
Finance Minister  Anders Borg  to drop his opposition to a single
European bank supervisor as the Nordic country’s stricter
capital rules pit Sweden’s banks against their government.  “The common rules and the common supervision should be for
all, including those banks and countries outside the euro,”
Nordea Chief Executive Officer  Christian Clausen , who is also
the president of the European Banking Federation, said in a
Sept. 26 phone interview from  Stockholm . “We support one
banking supervisor that ensures that we implement the same rules
in the same way in different countries.”  Sweden, whose  lenders  have assets that are about four times
the size of the $550 billion economy, is navigating discord over
a common banking union at home as well as abroad. Borg, whose
government holds a 13.5 percent stake in Nordea, has railed
against  Europe ’s latest proposal to make the  European Central
Bank  the region’s top  bank  regulator, a model he says would
undermine Sweden’s freedom to set more rigorous  capital
requirements  than those targeted elsewhere in Europe.  “We’ve worked hard to raise capital coverage requirements
on Swedish banks,” Borg said in an interview last week. “We’re
not prepared, through the back door, to allow the French and
others who were skeptical of this to undermine that deal and
decide that it’s only the ECB that can decide capital coverage
requirements.”  ‘Ill-Managed’  Plans to work toward a European banking union that would
also entail cross-border deposit guarantees have been met by a
pledge from Borg that Swedish funds will never go toward
covering losses in “ill-managed” banks elsewhere in Europe.  Borg, together with the Swedish central bank and the
Financial Supervisory Authority, in November told Nordea,
 Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank (SWEDA)  AB and SEB AB to meet a 10
percent core Tier 1 capital ratio of risk-weighted assets by
January. In 2015, that requirement will rise to 12 percent. That
compares with the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ’s
minimum of 7 percent, due to take effect by 2019. The European
Banking Authority has a temporary target of 9 percent for some
lenders.  Clausen said that setting divergent capital requirements
only creates more financial risk. Higher capital standards are
acceptable if all banks are required to meet them, he said.  Systemic Risk  “There is no simple answer to what the right capital ratio
is, but if you have different levels you have the situation
where some areas will go into recession before others,” Clausen
said. “Those with low capital levels will be more vulnerable
and will create economic disruptions to the stronger countries
that have more capital. You could say that the weaker areas will
be the  systemic risk  areas.”  European leaders presented their goal of having a single
bank supervisor in June as a framework for providing financial
assistance directly to euro-area banks. More detailed proposals
unveiled on Sept. 12 include safeguards for the U.K. and the
other nine nations that don’t use the euro to take their
national interests into account.  The proposal has sparked debate on both the national level
and within the banking industry, as lawmakers struggle to agree
ahead of a Jan. 1 deadline for the supervisor to be in place. A
phasing-in period of the system is due to be completed by Jan.
1, 2014, and all 27 EU members will need to sign off.  The model is designed to ensure governments aren’t dragged
down by troubled lenders receiving state aid in a spiral of
inter-dependency that has compounded the debt crisis.  Capital Ratios  At the end of last year, Swedbank and Handelsbanken were
the two best-capitalized lenders in Europe under  Basel II  on a
Swedish central bank ranking of 24 of the region’s largest
banks, including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
UBS AG and Banco Santander SA. SEB was No. 4 and Nordea No. 7.  Nordea, which is in part the product of a state-engineered
merger after Sweden’s 1990s banking crisis, had the lowest  core
Tier 1  capital ratio last quarter of the country’s four biggest
lenders, at 11.8 percent. Borg has also justified his insistence
on stricter capital rules by citing more recent examples of
financial risk.  Stockholm-based Swedbank and SEB suffered severe losses
after expanding into an economic boom in the Baltic states that
turned to bust in 2009. The experience underlines the need to
ensure banking standards in  Sweden  aren’t eroded as euro-zone
lenders buckle, according to Borg.  Incentives  The ECB “would automatically get a majority,” Borg said
in last week’s interview. “This entire regulatory framework
that we’ve built up in the last few years is based on that when
different countries get into a conflict, different banks get
into a conflict, there will be mediation. You can’t leave that
to an institution where the ECB and the euro countries have an
automatic majority.”  Spain  in June asked for a 100 billion-euro bailout for its
banks, as the nation awaits the results of stress tests
indicating how much extra capital the lenders need.
Recapitalizing Europe’s troubled banks is a key step in
restoring confidence and easing the crisis, Clausen said.  “The whole situation with confidence for the banking
sector is all about the banks being capitalized,” he said.
“It’s all about capital -- if we capitalize the Spanish banks,
then that worry will go away. Gradually when banks have been
capitalized, and the whole system has been capitalized, the
risk-premiums will disappear.”  More Palatable  Against the backdrop of continued banking turmoil in
southern Europe, EU legislators are looking at ways to make a
common banking framework more palatable.  Sven Giegold, a European parliament lawmaker leading the
work on the plans to hand bank supervisory powers to the ECB
said Sept. 26 that “above all, the system should be so
attractive that everyone will want to join” and that “what we
want to avoid is for member states to feel they have an
incentive to stay out.”  Even if Nordea lobbies for Sweden to join, the country is
unlikely to sign up for a banking union now, Clausen said.  “They will keep the door open to join at the right
stage,” he said. “The political project in the long-term of
course needs to include everything, not just euro-zone
countries. This is not just about the euro; it’s about ensuring
that banks working cross-border have the same regulation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  