-- Leu Rises From Month-Low as Central Bank Keeps Rate Unchanged
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-09-27T14:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/leu-rebounds-from-month-low-as-central-bank-keeps-rate-unchanged.html
The leu climbs from its weakest in
more than a month as Romania’s central bank left  interest rates 
unchanged, bucking a monetary-easing trend in the region.  The currency strengthened as much as 0.2 percent before
trading little changed at 4.5176 per euro by 5 p.m. in
Bucharest. It fell 0.2 percent to the lowest since Aug. 13
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on
the 2018 euro-denominated bonds slid four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 4.84 percent.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei kept its policy rate at 5.25
percent, matching all 18 economists’ estimates  in a Bloomberg 
survey. Inflation in Romania rose to 3.9 percent in August, the
highest in a year, as a drought pushed up food prices. The Czech
central bank reduced its benchmark rate by 25 basis points to
0.25 percent today, following Hungary which lowered its rates by
the same amount yesterday to 6.5 percent.  “A rate hike is not completely ruled out in 2013, but our
main scenario is that the central bank will tighten control of
liquidity through its open market operations,” Eugen Sinca, a
Bucharest-based economist at Banca Comerciala Romana SA, said in
a note today after the interest-rate decision.  Romania ’s central bank left at the monetary policy meeting
today its minimum reserve requirement for foreign-exchange
deposits at 20 percent and leu deposits at 15 percent in .  The bank lent 12 billion lei ($3.4 billion) in its one-week
repurchase agreements auction on Sept 24, providing financing in
line with bids for the fourth time in a row,  central bank data
show . Funding was lower than the bids received throughout
August, supporting the leu.  Poland  is also expected to trim interest rates at its
policy meeting on Oct. 3. The need to ease monetary policy in
Poland is “obvious” and rate reductions should come in a
“cycle” rather than a one-time move, PAP newswire cited
central bank Governor Marek Belka as saying yesterday.  Sinca foresees the leu at 4.55 per euro in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  