-- EU Seeks $12 Billion in Sanctions Versus U.S. Over Boeing
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-09-27T15:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/eu-seeks-12-billion-in-sanctions-versus-u-s-over-boeing.html
The European Union said it will ask
the  World Trade Organization  to authorize as much as $12 billion
in sanctions against the U.S. for failing to withdraw subsidies
to planemaker  Boeing Co. (BA)  that violate global trade rules.  WTO appellate judges found on March 12 that Chicago-based
Boeing had received illegal subsidies totaling at least $2.6
billion in the form of U.S. government research and defense
contracts and found that this aid had “adverse effects” on
Airbus SAS. The U.S. said on Sept. 23 that it had complied with
the WTO ruling.  The European Commission, which two days later rejected the
U.S. assertion that it had complied, said in a statement in
Brussels today that the requested sanctions are “based on
estimates of the damages suffered by the EU due to unfair and
biased competition from the U.S. industry.”  The dispute between the U.S. and the EU is part of a long-
running rift over government subsidies to large civil-aircraft
makers. While the Geneva-based WTO can’t force nations or
companies to scrap illegal payments, it can authorize
retaliatory sanctions against governments that fail to comply
with its rulings.  The trade arbiter has also ruled that Toulouse, France-
based  Airbus (EAD)  received illegal subsidies. In December, the U.S.
rejected an EU filing saying it had removed the payments that
violate global trade rules and asked the WTO to approve between
$7 billion and $10 billion in retaliatory sanctions against the
27-nation bloc.  Amount Justified  The request for as much as $12 billion in sanctions is the
largest ever to go to the WTO.  The amount “is justified by the WTO panel confirmation
that the effect of the subsidies is significantly larger than
their face value in light of their ‘particularly pervasive’
nature,” Maggie Bergsma, an Airbus spokeswoman, said in an e-
mailed statement.  The U.S. and  Europe  filed counter-cases at the WTO in 2004
after the administration of President  George W. Bush 
unilaterally walked out of a 1992 aircraft-aid agreement with
the EU.  The EU plans to put the request for sanctions to the WTO’s
Dispute Settlement Body on Oct. 23, the trade arbiter said in an
e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  