-- EU Seeks Accelerated Talks on Plan to Delay Some Carbon Auctions
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2012-09-27T15:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/eu-seeks-accelerated-talks-on-plan-to-delay-some-carbon-auctions.html
The European Union’s regulatory arm
is considering options to accelerate talks with governments on a
proposal to delay some auctions of carbon allowances starting
next year, a European Commission official said.  The commission may seek additional meetings of experts from
national governments to discuss a draft plan it proposed in
July, said Peter Zapfel, coordinator for the emissions trading
system at the commission.  Member states  have yet to agree on
their position on the so-called backloading measure, which aims
to postpone sales of some carbon permits to curb oversupply.  “The commission is determined to accelerate discussions
with member states on backloading,” Zapfel said by e-mail from
Brussels. “We work hard to facilitate an agreement on this
before the end of 2012.”  At stake are prices in the EU emissions-trading system,
which fell to a record in April after the economic crisis hurt
industrial output, boosting the glut of permits to almost half
of the average annual pollution limit in the world’s biggest
cap-and-trade program.  The draft measure on carbon-permit auction delays needs
qualified-majority backing from representatives of national
governments in the EU Climate Change Committee to pass. The
committee, known as CCC, normally meets once a month and the
commission chairs its gatherings.  The EU hasn’t yet proposed a specific number of permits to
be delayed and plans to do so after finishing work on an impact
assessment, which will be ready “in the coming weeks,”  Jos
Delbeke , director general for climate action at the commission,
said yesterday. The permits will be returned to the market at a
later stage of next trading period in the EU program that ends
in 2020, the commission has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net 
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  