-- EU to Focus on Banks’ Collusion With Markit in Antitrust Probe
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-09-27T16:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/eu-to-focus-on-banks-collusion-with-markit-in-antitrust-probe.html
European Union antitrust regulators
will focus on possible collusion between Markit Group Ltd. and
16 investment banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. after suspending a parallel probe into
clearing deals between nine of the lenders and ICE Clear Europe.  The European Commission will prioritize the investigation
into whether the 16 banks shared some pricing and other
essential daily data only with Markit, a data provider majority-
owned by Wall Street’s largest banks, said an official, who
asked not to be named because the EU’s decision isn’t public.  The EU will suspend a separate investigation into
 Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) ’s U.K. unit and banks for lack of
evidence, the official said. The antitrust agency won’t formally
close its investigation and will continue to monitor possible
infractions. The  probe  examined ICE’s preferential fees and
profit-sharing arrangements with Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Bank
of America Corp.,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  UBS AG. (UBSN)   The investigation into banks’ agreements with Markit also
involves  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , HSBC Holdings Plc,
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Credit
Agricole SA and Societe Generale SA, the commission said last
year.  While the EU’s conclusions from the two investigations
won’t confirm all of its suspicions, they will show “other
elements of the bad functioning of this market,” EU Competition
Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said in a speech at a European
Parliament committee earlier this week.  Financial Crisis  Global regulators have sought to toughen regulation of the
credit-default swap market, saying the trades helped fuel the
financial crisis. The EU’s swaps probes add to separate
investigations into whether banks colluded to manipulate the
London interbank offered rate. The U.S. Justice Department is
also probing the credit derivatives clearing, trading and
information services industries.  Alex Paidas, a spokesman for Markit in New York, declined
to comment immediately.  Claire Miller , a spokeswoman for ICE
Clear Europe in London, declined to comment.  CDS are derivatives that pay the buyer face value if a
borrower defaults. Clearinghouses operate as central
counterparties for every buy and sell order executed by their
members, who post margin and contribute to default funds,
reducing the possible risks that a derivatives trade may
collapse.  Dealers of credit-default swaps in Europe bowed to pressure
from the EU in 2009 to conduct trades through clearinghouses,
such as ICE Clear, to cut risk to the financial system.  Bloomberg LP, the owner of Bloomberg News, competes with
Markit in selling information to the financial-services
industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 