-- EU Trading Curbs, Barclays Sued, Bair, SEC: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-09-27T12:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/eu-trading-curbs-barclays-sued-bair-reflects-fdic-compliance.html
Lawmakers backed tougher European
Union curbs on high-frequency trading and limits on commodity
speculation as part of a push to toughen the bloc’s financial
market rulebook.  European Parliament legislators, voting in Brussels
yesterday, also called for the European Securities and Markets
Authority to be equipped with powers to ban financial products
that might pose a threat to confidence or stability.  High-frequency trading in stocks came under increased
regulatory scrutiny after the so-called flash crash in May 2010,
during which the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost
almost 1,000 points. Companies active in such trading have
warned that interfering with their strategies would raise
investor costs and harm financial stability.  Lawmakers backed a range of curbs on high-frequency trading
in yesterday’s vote, including a rule that orders must be kept
in the market for at least half a second before they are
canceled, and a requirement for traders to face higher fees if
they withdraw excessive numbers of orders.  The parliament was voting on a draft overhaul of the EU’s
financial market rulebook, known as Mifid, proposed last year by
 Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief.  The final version of the rules must be agreed on by the
assembly and by national governments before they can take
effect. Yesterday’s committee vote sets parliament’s negotiation
position.  On commodity derivatives, lawmakers backed a dual system in
which speculators would face position limits capping their
activities, while companies that are hedging business risks
would be subject to lighter rules. Still, Parliament gave only
limited support to an attempt by Barnier to boost competition in
clearing of derivatives.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Banks’ Leverage Should Be Halved to Cut Risks, Bair Says  Banks should be required to reduce by half the amount they
can borrow against equity to make the financial system safer,
according to former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman
 Sheila Bair .  Bair called for a “hard-and-fast” leverage ratio of 8
percent in “Bulls by the Horns,” her memoir of the financial
crisis published this month. That’s double the 4 percent ratio
U.S. banks must adhere to currently and more than twice the 3
percent called for by new global rules on bank capital.  Lenders could borrow about 13 times their equity, based on
Bair’s suggestion, compared with 25 times under existing U.S.
rules. Bair, 58, who stepped down from the FDIC last year, was a
proponent of the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
introducing a simple leverage ratio, which ignores the riskiness
of different loans in setting minimum  capital requirements . The  Basel committee narrowed the definition of what counts as
capital. It also devised a method of tallying assets for
calculating leverage ratio that puts aside the different
accounting standards used in the U.S. and Europe. The new method
would increase the balance sheets of U.S. banks because of
differences in how derivatives are treated.  Using Basel’s narrower capital definition, the two largest
U.S. banks would have to raise about $100 billion of capital to
comply with Bair’s leverage recommendation. The FDIC, the
 Federal Reserve  and the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency are implementing the new Basel rules.  For more, click here and see Interviews, below.  French Regulator Says Markets Are Too ‘Opaque,’ Figaro Reports  Autorite des Marches Financieres, the French market
regulator, said markets are “too opaque,” Figaro reported,
citing an interview with Gerard Rameix, president of the AMF.  The massive development of high-frequency trading has made
markets incomprehensible to individual shareholders, Rameix
said, according to AMF.  Rameix, who called for European changes to make markets
more transparent, also wants shareholders to have more say in
corporate executive salaries, Figaro reported. Rameix also said
companies are not getting enough benefits from listing.  ASIC Seeks Power to Tap Phones in Insider Trading Probes FR Says  The Australian markets regulator is seeking the power
necessary to tap telephone calls and record Internet usage to
improve its ability to fight  insider trading  and Ponzi schemes,
the Financial Review reported.  Australian Securities and Investments Commissioner Greg
Tanzer made the comments about the proposal today at a joint
parliamentary hearing in Sydney, the paper reported.  Under the proposal, “stock brokers and fund managers’
phone calls and Internet use could be tracked for two years even
if they are not guilty of any crime,” Financial Review
reported.  Civil liberties groups and telecommunications companies
oppose the move, the paper said.  Compliance Action  Complaints to Financial Services Firms Grew by 59%, FSA Says  Complaints to U.K. financial services firms increased by 59
percent, largely driven by payment protection insurance, or PPI,
the Financial Services Authority said in a statement.  A  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  unit received the largest number
of complaints on general insurance and pure protection in the
first six months of 2012 with 81 percent of the complaints
upheld by the firm, according to data  published  on the FSA’s
website today. Santander UK Plc attracted the most complaints on
banking and home finance for the same period.  British regulators said last year that consumers may
receive as much as 9 billion pounds ($14.6 billion) in
compensation as a result of improper sales of PPI. The FSA said
in June that banks will also repay small and medium-sized
businesses for improperly sold interest-rate derivatives.  Lloyds said complaints, excluding PPI and general
insurance, fell by 18 percent and banking complaints were down
21 percent.  Banking complaints rose by 5 percent during the period.  Courts/Tribunals  SEC Seeks to Intervene in Lehman Unit’s Fight With Barclays  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission asked for
permission to intervene in Lehman Brothers Inc.’s appeal of a
$5.5 billion award to  Barclays Plc (BARC)  that stemmed from the
purchase of the Lehman parent’s North American businesses in
2008.  The SEC has the legal right to participate in all cases
involving a brokerage that’s being liquidated under the
Securities Investor Protection Act, the regulator said in a
letter to the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York.  The SEC previously sided with the Lehman brokerage in
district court, saying that as long as there is a shortfall in
what’s owed to clients, Barclays has only a conditional claim on
as much as $1.3 billion reserved for customers.  The dueling between the second-biggest U.K. bank and Lehman
brokerage trustee James Giddens followed a 2010 bankruptcy court
trial. Both sides challenged the trial judge’s order on the
disputed assets, as well as the district judge’s order that
mostly favored Barclays.  Michael O’Looney, a Barclays spokesman, declined to comment
on the SEC filing.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail asking what the SEC might say
when it files papers in the case or appears in court.  The Lehman brokerage went into liquidation in September
2008 separately from its parent, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The Lehman parent is now out of bankruptcy.  The appeal is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 12-2328,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  Ex-Credit Suisse CDO Boss Serageldin Is Arrested in U.K.  Kareem Serageldin, the ex-global head of  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) ’s CDO business charged in a bonus-boosting fraud tied
to a $5.35 billion trading book, was arrested by London police
as he was negotiating his surrender to U.S. authorities, a
person familiar with the matter said.  Serageldin, a U.S. citizen who lives in England, was
charged in February with masterminding a scheme to fake
collateralized debt obligations. He was taken into custody
yesterday outside the U.S. consulate, another person with
knowledge of the matter said. Both spoke on condition of
anonymity because the arrest isn’t public.  Serageldin, who couldn’t be immediately reached to comment,
will appear at Westminster Magistrates court today, a London
police spokesman said. In February, when he was first charged in
Manhattan federal court, Serageldin said through his lawyers
that he was surprised since he had been cooperating with U.S.
investigators for four years.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan, whose office is prosecuting the case,
declined to comment. A spokesman for Kobre & Kim LLP, the law
firm representing Serageldin, also declined to comment.  Serageldin was named in an indictment unsealed in February
accusing him of conspiracy, falsification of books and records
and wire fraud. The conspiracy charge carries a maximum five-
year prison term on conviction. The other counts are punishable
by as many as 20 years. The case is being investigated by agents
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in New York.  The criminal cases are U.S. v. Higgs, 12-cr-00088, and U.S.
v. Siddiqui, 12-cr-00089, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan). The SEC case is U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission v. Serageldin, 12-cv-00796, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Barclays Unit Sued Over Securities by Credit Union Regulator  Barclays Plc’s investment-banking unit was accused in a
lawsuit by the U.S. agency that regulates credit unions of
making misleading statements about mortgage-backed securities to
two credit unions that failed.  The unit, known until March as  Barclays Capital , violated
state and federal laws by making misrepresentations in sales of
the securities valued at more than $555 million to U.S. Central
Federal Credit Union and Western Corporate Federal Credit Union,
the  National Credit Union Administration  said in the complaint
filed yesterday in federal court in Kansas City, Kansas.  Barclays failed to adhere to its underwriting guidelines,
and the property values supporting the securities at issue were
“routinely overvalued,” and the owner occupancy rates were
lower than represented upon offering, according to the suit.  Yesterday’s complaint follows similar lawsuits, including
one last month against  UBS AG (UBS)  and previously against  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the Wachovia
Corp. unit of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Michael O’Looney, a spokesman for London-based Barclays,
declined to comment about the complaint.  The case is National Credit Union Administration v.
Barclays Capital, 12-cv-2631, U.S. District Court, District of
Kansas (Kansas City).  Ex-Goldman Programmer Sues for $2.4 Million in Legal Fees  Former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. computer programmer  Sergey
Aleynikov , charged twice with stealing confidential trading
code, sued the bank for payment of more than $2.4 million in
legal fees.  Goldman Sachs should pay fees and expenses incurred during
Aleynikov’s federal prosecution, which resulted in a conviction
that was later overturned, his lawyers argued in court papers
filed yesterday in federal court in Newark, New Jersey.  Aleynikov was freed from federal prison earlier this year
after the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York reversed the 2010
conviction in Manhattan federal court. Aleynikov was
subsequently charged by New York state prosecutors in Manhattan
over the same matter.  Aleynikov was arrested last month on state charges of
unlawful use of scientific material and duplication of computer-
related material, both felonies, according to Manhattan District
Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr. He is free on $35,000 bail.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the filing.  The case is Aleynikov v. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., 12-
cv-05994, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  Blind Banker Claims RBS Discriminated, Cut Disability Pay  A former  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  banker who had to
quit after losing his sight told a London employment tribunal
he’s owed disability benefits worth about 500,000 pounds
($808,000).  Paul Ryb, hired in 2009, joined RBS’s disability-insurance
plan in case a degenerative eye condition he had got worse. The
bank didn’t properly account for an increase in his pay, he
said, meaning he’ll get about 25,000 pounds a year less than
expected. He left the job a year ago.  Ryb, who is legally blind, was “shocked and angry” when
RBS said he’d get 132,000 pounds a year, not 158,400 pounds,
according to a witness statement made available yesterday.  Bankers who feel they were unfairly treated by employers
are increasingly turning to British courts and employment
tribunals for compensation.  Ryb, a telecommunications equity salesman hired by RBS from
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , sued the Japanese bank in a separate
employment matter not related to his blindness. He told the
London tribunal that the Nomura claim was settled, without
commenting on the amount.  Nomura spokeswoman Beth Brophy and RBS spokeswoman Sarah
Small declined to comment. The bank’s lawyer James Laddie told
tribunal judges yesterday Ryb was offered the same benefits as
everyone else at the company.  Ex-Hedge Fund CEO Spak Pleads Guilty to $4 Million Fraud  The former chief executive officer of a  New Jersey  hedge
fund pleaded guilty to a charge he conspired to defraud
investors of more than $4 million, federal prosecutors said.  Michael J. Spak, 44, of Chesterfield, New Jersey, entered
his plea yesterday before U.S. District Judge Joseph H.
Rodriguez in Camden to one count of conspiracy to commit wire
fraud, U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said in a statement.  Spak and his co-conspirators were accused of soliciting
investors for the Osiris Fund, which they pitched as a hedge
fund for “little guys” and “mom and pops,” and then
improperly diverted $4 million for their own use starting in
January 2010, prosecutors said.  While he fund incurred trading losses of about $4.5
million, Spak and his co-conspirators never disclosed the
losses, prosecutors said. Instead, they created false financial
statements, prosecutors said.  Spak faces as much as 20 years in jail and a $250,000 fine
at his sentencing, scheduled for Jan. 9, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Spak, U.S. District Court, District of
New Jersey (Camden).  Interviews  Bair Says Bank Capital Levels Need Higher Priority  Former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman Sheila Bair
talked about capital requirements for banks and her memoir of
the financial crisis “Bull by the Horns: Fighting to Save Main
Street from  Wall Street  and Wall Street from Itself.”  Bair spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  FDIC Names John Vogel as Regional Director in New York  John Vogel has been named Regional Director for New York by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the independent federal
agency said yesterday in e-mailed statement.  Until his new appointment, Vogel was serving in the New
York region as deputy regional director for risk management.  In his new position, Vogel will direct supervision of about
890 depositary institutions with assets of more than $1.5
trillion, the FDIC said in the statement. The New York region
covers 11 states, Washington, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin
Islands, the FDIC said.  EU Seeks to Remove Hurdle to Mersch’s Appointment to ECB Board  The European Union sought to clear the way for Luxembourg’s
Yves Mersch to join the  European Central Bank ’s board, by
pledging to work harder to find qualified women for future ECB
posts.  Mersch’s appointment has been stalled by a European
Parliament committee that protested against the absence of women
on the central bank’s six-member Executive Board.  The ECB seat has been empty since June 1. Mersch was
selected by European finance ministers in July and is awaiting a
parliament vote before taking office. The parliament’s next
opportunity is in the week of Oct. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 