-- Europe Stocks Rally Will Continue, Manning & Napier Says
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-09-27T11:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/europe-stocks-rally-will-continue-manning-napier-says.html
European stocks  will rally further
as valuations remain below historical levels and the region has
several companies that will increase profits regardless of
economic concerns, according to Manning & Napier Inc.  “Valuations in European equities reflect a pretty elevated
level of fear, so they are a bit more attractive,”  Marc Tommasi, head of global investment strategy at Manning & Napier
in  New York , said in a phone interview yesterday. “Europeans
have the tools they need to deal with the challenges creating
that fear.”  The firm, which manages $42 billion, remains overweight on
European equities, holding more stocks than are represented in
global benchmarks, even after the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index  surged 
16 percent from its 2012 low on June 4.  The gauge is trading at 1.5 times the  book value  of its
member companies, compared with 2.2 times for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Stoxx 600
has closed every quarter between March 2002 and September 2008
above 1.6 times book value, reaching a high of 2.5 times in
December 2006.  Stocks climbed as a new government reduced political
uncertainty in  Greece , yields on Spanish and Italian bonds fell
from record highs and global central banks cut the cost of
borrowing and increased asset purchases to boost economic
growth.  Managing Risk  The  European Central Bank ’s willingness to use the full
force of its balance sheet to help resolve the region’s debt
crisis lessens risk even though growth may be constrained in all
developed markets including Europe, Tommasi said. While growing
unrest in  Spain  against proposed austerity measures is a
potential risk, it’s also the reason valuations remain subdued,
he said.  “The market is well aware of the risks and is over-
discounting those risks,” he said.  Manning & Napier’s preferred stocks in the region include
Germany’s  Adidas AG (ADS)  and  Siemens AG (SIE) , Spain’s  Amadeus IT Holding
SA (AMS)  and the Dutch biotechnology company  Qiagen NV. (QGEN)   “We’re also bullish because we’re able to find companies
that have an ability to grow regardless of what the general
economies are doing, either because of secular growth that they
have exposure to or because they have a competitive dynamic
within a specific industry,” Tommasi said.  Profit Growth  Earnings of companies listed on the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  will rise 13
percent to 25.57 euros per share in 2013, compared with a 6
percent growth in 2012, according to the average of analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  There is a “significant upside” to the profit-margins
potential of Adidas, the world’s second-largest sporting-goods
maker, from its acquisition of the Reebok brand in 2006, Tommasi
said.  Siemens is attractive because the company is restructuring
its portfolio into businesses with a “much better secular
growth theme,” he said.  Amadeus, the world’s biggest processor of travel bookings,
helps aviation companies cut costs and thus boost their return
on assets during a difficult period for the aviation industry,
Tommasi said.  Manning & Napier is also betting on Qiagen as the molecular
diagnostics and genetics market is growing even as there are
“headwinds to overall medical spending around the world,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  