-- Euro-Area Economic Confidence Unexpectedly Declined in September
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-09-27T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/euro-area-economic-confidence-unexpectedly-declined-in-september.html
Economic confidence  in the euro
area unexpectedly fell in September as leaders strived to rein
in the debt crisis in the single-currency bloc and the economy’s
 slump deepened .  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area dropped to 85 from 86.1 in August, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. Economists had forecast no
change in the indicator, the median of 28 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey  showed.  European consumers and executives are growing  more
pessimistic  about the outlook after the debt crisis pushed at
least five of the countries using the euro into recession. While
the  European Central Bank  announced details of an unlimited
bond-purchase plan this month to quell the turmoil, rising
borrowing costs from  Italy  to  Spain  reflect investors’ concern.  “The ECB measures will be important for consumers and
business in the same way they’ll be important for financial
markets, in that they remove some of that sense of imminent doom
and gloom, but the general macroeconomic environment outlook is
pretty miserable,”  Jens Larsen , chief European economist at  RBC
Capital Markets  in London, said by phone before today’s report.  Euro-area governments may find it more difficult to plug
their budget gaps and restore investors’ confidence after the
euro-area economy contracted 0.2 percent in the second quarter
and indicators have since shown signs of a deepening slump.
Services and factory output fell to a 39-month low this month,
Markit Economics said on Sept. 20.  Record Unemployment  Consumer sentiment has also been hit as the euro-area’s
unemployment rate is at a record 11.3 percent, with companies
from  France  to  Belgium  cutting jobs to weather the turmoil.  While Germany’s expansion has helped counter some of the
impact of tougher austerity measures, German business confidence
unexpectedly fell to the lowest in more than two and a half
years in September.  A gauge of sentiment among European manufacturers fell to
minus 16.1 from minus 15.4 in August, today’s report showed. An
indicator of services confidence dropped to minus 12, while a
gauge of consumer sentiment dipped to minus 25.9. Sentiment in
the  construction industry  improved to minus 31.9 from minus
33.1.  Deeper Contraction  A gauge of euro-zone manufacturers’ production expectations
declined to minus 10.3 from minus 8.6 in August, today’s report
showed. An indicator of order books fell to minus 30.6 from
minus 29.4, while an index of employment expectations dropped to
minus 13.3.  The European Central Bank on Sept. 6 forecast a deeper
economic contraction for 2012 than it did three months earlier,
predicting euro-area gross domestic product will drop 0.4
percent this year instead of 0.1 percent.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s largest maker of
luxury cars, last month reported its first drop in quarterly
profit in almost three years and warned that Europe’s debt
crisis could cast further clouds on the global growth outlook.
MAN SE, the German truckmaker that lowered its 2012 earnings
forecast in July, said on Aug. 31 it may cut production shifts
and eliminate additional temporary staff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  