-- Euro Falls Versus Dollar as U.S. Economic Data Trails
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-28T21:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/euro-holds-gain-as-spain-cuts-boosts-bailout-prospects.html
The euro fell against the dollar
after U.S. purchasing managers data and consumer sentiment
trailed forecasts, crimping demand for riskier assets.  The shared currency pared declines after a  stress test 
showed Spanish banks have a combined capital shortfall of 59.3
billion euros ($76.3 billion), less than earlier estimates amid
speculation a financial bailout will be sought. The U.S.
currency strengthened versus most of its 16 major counterparts
after the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its
business barometer fell for the first time in three years,
signaling contraction.  China ’s  yuan  rose to the strongest versus
the dollar since 1993.  “I’m skeptical the Spanish stress test results will be
able to alleviate concerns about global growth,”  Joe Manimbo , a
market analyst in  Washington  at Western Union Business
Solutions, a unit of  Western Union Co (WU) , said in a telephone
interview. “But it can keep some firepower available for the
bloc’s rescue fund, which can be viewed as a positive for the
single currency.”  The 17-nation fell 0.4 percent to $1.2860 at 5 p.m.  New
York  time, after gaining as much as 0.4 percent. It was little
changed against the yen at 100.21. The dollar added 0.5 percent
to 77.96 yen.  Futures Bets  Futures traders decreased aggregate bets the dollar would
fall against eight major currencies. Net-bets for a dollar
decline were 50,238 in the week ended Sept. 25, down from 73.482
the previous week, according to Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data compiled by Bloomberg.  The euro has weakened 3.4 percent this year, the second
worst performance after the yen among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar is down 2.6 percent.  “Weak economic data is weighing on the stock market,
triggering a risk-off environment, and the euro is getting
hit,”  Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s not just a euro move. It’s a broad-based
decline.”  The yen’s share of global foreign-exchange reserves rose
from March through June to the highest level since the third
quarter of 2005, International Monetary Fund data  show . The
euro’s portion of reserves rebounded from a more than five-year
low, rising to 25.1 percent from 24.9 percent. The percentage of
reserves denominated in dollars fell to 61.9 percent from 62.1
percent.  Kiwi Leads  The  New Zealand dollar  led all major currencies this month
against the greenback, appreciating 3.3 percent. The Brazilian
real increased the least out of 16 counterparts versus the
dollar, gaining 0.2 percent.  Swedish’s krona appreciated more than all of its peers
versus the dollar this quarter, gaining 5.4 percent. The South
African rand had the biggest quarterly decline out of its peers,
slipping 1.8 percent.  The real has lost 7.9 percent versus the dollar in 2012,
almost three times the decline of the rand, the second-biggest
loser. The Mexican peso leads all 16 of the dollar’s biggest
peers with a gain of 8.4 percent this year.  Implied volatility, which signals the expected pace of
currency swings, for the currencies of Group of Seven nations
reached 7.73, its lowest level since October 2007, according to
a JPMorgan Chase & Co.  index . Lower volatility makes investments
in currencies with higher benchmark lending rates more
attractive because the risk in such trades is that market moves
will erase profit.  Pound Falls  The British pound fell today versus the majority of its 16
major counterparts after  Fitch Ratings  said that government debt
will peak at a higher level and later than it previously
predicted, increasing its risk of a downgrade.  Sterling depreciated 0.4 percent to $1.6167 after earlier
falling 0.8 percent, its biggest decline since Aug. 1. The pound
was little changed at 79.55 pence per euro.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six U.S. trading partners, added 0.4 percent
79.894.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago’s business
barometer fell 49.7 this month from 53 in August. A reading of
50 is the dividing line between expansion and contraction. The
 median  estimate of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
the gauge would fall to 52.8.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final sentiment
index rose to 78.3 this month from 74.3 in August. Economists
projected 79 for the measure after a preliminary September
reading of 79.2, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Economic Risks  “The ugly results are serving to drive down risk even
further as investors are looking for the safe-haven shelter of
the  U.S. dollar ,” Neal Gilbert, a market strategist at GFT
Markets, wrote today in a note to clients.  The yuan strengthened on speculation the nation will step
up efforts to halt a slowdown in the world’s second-largest
economy. The monetary authority injected a record amount of
funds into the financial system this week to ease a cash squeeze
in the run up to a week-long holiday that starts Oct. 1.  “Funds are flowing back into the market as people bet
China will soon act more aggressively to revive growth,” said
Kenix Lai, a Hong Kong-based foreign-exchange analyst at  Bank of
East Asia Ltd. (23)   The yuan rose as much as 0.3 percent to 6.2840 per dollar.
China’s currency, which has strengthened 1.1 percent this
quarter, can trade as much as 1 percent on either side of the
central bank’s daily fixing.  Spain’s Plan  Spain  commissioned the independent  stress test  as part of
the conditions agreed in July for a  European bailout  of as much
as 100 billion euros for its banking system, which has been
saddled with more than 180 billion euros of losses linked to
souring real estate assets. The total capital deficit is less
than the 62 billion euros management consultants  Oliver Wyman 
estimated in June that banks would need.  The attempt to show how its banks would bear an extreme
scenario in which the economy would shrink for three years in a
row is part of the government’s drive to show it is fixing
Spain’s economy as it considers whether to seek a further rescue
package from  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  