-- European Stocks Rise Amid Speculation of China Stimulus
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-09-27T16:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/european-stock-index-futures-climb-teliasonera-may-move.html
European (SXXP)  stocks rose, after falling
the most in two months yesterday, amid speculation  China  may
announce new stimulus measures to bolster economic growth and as
Spain’s cabinet approved the 2013 budget.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  advanced 3.8 percent after saying it may
soon sell its Emporiki Greek unit.  Opap (OPAP)  SA jumped 3 percent
after  Greece ’s Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund
published calls for expressions of interest for the government’s
stake in the company.  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) , Europe’s second-
largest clothing retailer, slid 5.8 percent as third-quarter
profit missed analyst projections.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.3 percent to 271.65 at
the close of trading. European shares have rallied 8.2 percent
so far this quarter, heading for the biggest quarterly advance
since 2009. The gauge has jumped 16 percent from this year’s low
on June 4 as European Central Bank policy makers agreed on an
unlimited asset-purchase program and the  Federal Reserve 
announced a third round of quantitative easing.  “The market is higher on speculation swirling that China
will announce a large stimulus package after China National Day
on Oct. 1,” said Stephane Ekolo, chief European strategist at
Market Securities in  London .  The benchmark index declined yesterday as Spaniards
protested against austerity and Federal  Reserve Bank  of
Philadelphia President Charles Plosser said the third round of
bond buying may fail to stimulate growth in the U.S.  National benchmark indexes climbed in 14 of the 18 western-
European markets. France’s CAC 40 rose 0.7 percent, while the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 and Germany’s DAX both gained 0.2 percent.
Spain’s IBEX 35 fell 0.2 percent.  China Stimulus  A report showed China’s industrial profits fell for a fifth
month, increasing speculation the government will do more to
support economic growth. China may further cut banks’ reserve
requirements or  interest rates  if external demand worsens, Chen Yulu, an academic adviser to the People’s Bank of China, told
reporters in Beijing.  “Although it remains unclear what type of supportive
measures Chinese policy makers have in mind, the mere hint of
further stimulus to underpin the world’s second-largest economy
is helping lift sentiment across the board,” Nicholas Spiro,
managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London, said in
e-mailed comments.  Spanish Budget  Spain’s cabinet today approved the budget for 2013. Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has vowed to cut the deficit by at least
18 billion euros ($23.1 billion) next year, defying tens of
thousands of demonstrators who fought with police in Madrid this
week to demand the premier reverse course and resign.  Rajoy is struggling to persuade European peers, voters and
investors that he can tackle the crisis. Spanish  bond yields 
surged yesterday amid rising investor uncertainty over whether
he will ask for external aid.  In the U.S., total  orders  for durable goods, those meant to
last at least three years, plunged 13 percent, the most since
January 2009, the Commerce Department reported today in
 Washington . The median forecast of 79 economists in a Bloomberg
News  survey  was for a 5 percent decrease.  Fewer Americans than forecast filed first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments last week. Applications for
 jobless benefits  decreased 26,000 to 359,000 in the week ended
Sept. 22, the lowest since July, Labor Department figures showed
today. Economists forecast 375,000 claims, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The economy in the U.S. grew less than previously forecast
in the second quarter. The world’s largest economy expanded at a
1.3 percent pace after growing at a 2 percent rate from January
through March. The revision, the third estimate for the quarter,
compared with a prior estimate of 1.7 percent and a Bloomberg
survey’s 1.7 percent median forecast.  Credit Agricole  Credit Agricole  advanced 3.8 percent to 5.49 euros after
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet said it may sell its
Emporiki Greek unit within weeks.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  climbed 1 percent to 579.5 pence, making
the second-biggest contribution to the Stoxx 600’s gain, while
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  rose 3.5 percent to 28.86
euros.  Opap jumped 3 percent to 4.17 euros. Greece called a tender
to sell a 33 percent stake in the country’s largest gambling
company, as its steps up its state-asset sales program.  Bidders have until Oct. 19 to register an interest and
selected investors will be invited to submit binding offers in
the second and final phase of the tender, according to a
Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund announcement published
in Kathimerini newspaper today.  Teleperformance Gains  Teleperformance SA, a French operator of  call centers ,
rallied 2.6 percent to 22.31 euros as it said it’s in an
“acquisition mood” and looking for targets in the U.S. to
bolster growth.  Separately, Exane BNP Paribas raised its price estimate for
the stock by 17 percent to 28 euros.  H&M slid 5.8 percent to 232.20 kronor, the biggest drop
since May 4, after it reported third-quarter profit that trailed
analysts’ estimates. Net income was 3.62 billion kronor ($550
million) in the three months ended Aug. 31, the Stockholm-based
company said today. The average projection of analysts compiled
by Bloomberg was 4.05 billion kronor.  European carmakers were among the worst performers of the
19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 after  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  said
some competitors risk going out of business without financial
assistance as the region’s auto market worsens.  Volkswagen, Europe’s largest automaker, lost 2.1 percent to
143.30 euros and Fiat SpA dropped 2.1 percent to 4.23 euros.  Colruyt Falls  Colruyt SA (COLR)  tumbled 5.1 percent to 34.54 euros. Belgium’s
biggest discount food retailer said late yesterday that its
fiscal full-year net income will be comparable to last year’s
342.9 million euros, missing analysts’ estimates for 358 million
euros.  Swatch Group AG, the world’s biggest watchmaker, slipped 2
percent to 374.50 Swiss francs. Chief Executive Officer Nick
Hayel said the company will have to “fight” to meet its 8
billion-franc sales goal this year, Reuters reported.  Phoenix Mecano AG (PM)  slumped 6.4 percent to 453.75 francs
after the maker of plastic and metal boxes for electronic goods
cut its 2012 earnings before interest and taxes forecast to
between 32 million euros and 37 million euros.  Subsea 7 SA (SUBC) , a provider of offshore oilfield services, slid
2.9 percent to 132.80 kroner after saying it would seek to sell
as much as $700 million in convertible bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  