-- Teva Jumps on Move Into Branded Drugs: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-27T22:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/teva-jumps-on-move-into-branded-drugs-israel-overnight.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
surged to a two-month high in New York as the purchase of a new
treatment signaled the world’s largest generic drugmaker will
seek to boost profit by moving into branded medicines.  The Israeli company advanced 1.6 percent to $41.23 in New
York yesterday, the highest level since July 27 and a 55-cent
premium to its shares traded in  Tel Aviv . The  Bloomberg Israel-
US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the biggest New York-traded Israeli companies
gained 1.8 percent to 87.01 as  Spain  pledging to cut its deficit
and prospects  China  will do more to stimulate its economy
boosted U.S. stocks.  Teva bought Huntexil, a treatment being developed to
improve hand movement and balance in people with Huntington’s
Disease from Ballerup, Denmark-based  NeuroSearch A/S (NEUR)  for $26
million, to be paid over the next six months, the Israeli
company said in a statement yesterday. New Chief Executive
Officer Jeremy Levin assumed the role in May from Bristol-Myers
Squibb & Co., the maker of the blood thinner Plavix, to help
Teva diversify its stable of medicines and products.  “Teva is trying to transform its profile toward specialty
pharma from a pure generic play and I think this is a smart
move,” Vincent Meunier, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, said
in a phone interview from Paris yesterday. “If they want to
continue to grow the bottom line they need to increase
profitability and this is coming from branded drugs.”  Israel ’s benchmark TA-25 Index rose 1.9 percent to the
highest since August 2011 at 1,189.25. The gauge has advanced 12
percent this quarter, the most in two years.  Austerity Package  Equities rallied globally as Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s nine-month-old government announced its fifth austerity
package and China injected a record amount of funds into the
financial system.  Levin, who was brought in by Teva after shares tumbled the
most in five years in 2011, said on Aug. 2 that he will announce
his strategic plan for 2013 on Dec. 11 in New York.  The Israeli company bought Frazer, Pennsylvania-based
Cephalon Inc. last year in a bid to broaden its portfolio of
brand-name treatments.  Growth in the last quarter was driven by contribution from
Cephalon’s medicines and other branded treatments, the company
said in the Aug. 2 call with investors. Sales of $982 million
from Copaxone, a branded medicine used for multiple sclerosis
therapy, contributed to 20 percent of total revenues in the
second quarter, the company said.  ‘Shift in Strategy’  Levin, who replaced Shlomo Yanai as the CEO, was known for
overseeing the “string of pearls” strategy of small
acquisitions and partnerships at Bristol-Myers.  “The shift in strategy is based on comments that he has
already made and his background,” Meunier said. “He is a pure
pharma guy and he was responsible for business development at
Bristol-Myers.”  Teva said on Sept. 14 that it sold its animal health unit
to German drugmaker  Bayer AG (BAYN)  for as much as $145 million. The
move was made to focus on its core business and strategically
position the company in both the generic and branded medicines
market, the company said.  Teva’s Tel Aviv shares rose 2 percent to 159 shekels, or
the equivalent of $40.68.  Ceragon Networks Ltd. (CRNT) , a maker of wireless networks,
increased 6.6 percent to $5.69, the most since July 5. The Tel
Aviv shares advanced 1.7 percent to 21.63 shekels, or the
equivalent of $5.54.  Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. (IGLD) , which owns a stake in
Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication Corp, surged 9.6 percent to
$3.3, the highest level since June 18. Its shares in Tel Aviv
rallied 13 percent to 12.5 shekels, or the equivalent of $3.2
following a 4.1 percent gain for Bezeq.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  