-- Ex-Goldman Programmer Pleads Not Guilty to Code Theft
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-09-27T21:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/ex-goldman-sachs-programmer-aleynikov-pleads-not-guilty.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
programmer Sergey Aleynikov, who successfully challenged a
federal conviction for stealing internal code from the bank,
pleaded not guilty to similar state charges.  Aleynikov entered his plea today in  New York  state court in
 Manhattan  before Justice Ronald Zweibel. He was indicted on two
counts of unlawful use of scientific material and one of
unlawful duplication of computer-related material, according to
his lawyer,  Kevin Marino .  Marino in court assailed New York District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s office for attempting to prosecute Aleynikov a
second time, and said he will move to dismiss the case on
double-jeopardy grounds. Marino said his client declined an
offer to plead guilty to one felony count in exchange for time
served.  “The message is, if you mess with Goldman Sachs, you
better get ready for the fight of your life,” Marino said.  Zweibel allowed Aleynikov to remain free on $35,000 bail
pending his next court appearance and gave him permission to
travel to  Russia  to visit his mother, who is being treated for
cancer, once his passport is returned by federal authorities. He
is scheduled to return to court on Nov. 16.  Conviction Reversed  Aleynikov was freed from prison after serving about a year
following his federal conviction on charges he stole the bank’s
high-speed trading code. His 2010 conviction was reversed by the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York.  Federal prosecutors claimed that, on his last day of work
at New York-based Goldman Sachs in June 2009, Aleynikov uploaded
hundreds of thousands of lines of source code from the firm’s
high-frequency trading system.  Aleynikov sued Goldman Sachs in federal court in  Newark ,
New Jersey, earlier this week, seeking payment of more than $2.4
million in legal fees. He claimed he’s entitled to
indemnification because of his previous employment as an officer
of Goldman Sachs, according to the complaint.  Aleynikov, a vice president in the bank’s Global Equities
Division until June 30, 2009, was part of a team responsible for
developing and improving source code related to high-frequency
trading, according to the complaint.  No Funds  A New York appeals court in February ordered Aleynikov
freed from prison in Fort Dix,  New Jersey , ruling that the two
laws prosecutors used to charge him, the National Stolen
Property Act and the Economic Espionage Act, didn’t apply to his
case. Aleynikov was serving an eight-year prison term at the
time the conviction was overturned.  New York prosecutors said that while the federal appellate
judges court said Aleynikov’s conduct didn’t constitute a
federal crime, they suggested it could be a violation of state
law. The prosecutors also said Marino asserted in court
documents that theft of  trade secrets  is a “quintessential
state-law crime.”  “On our own initiative, we contacted federal prosecutors
and asked for their cooperation in filing a state criminal case
to make sure this defendant was held accountable for his
criminal conduct,” Assistant District Attorney David Szuchman
said in a statement. “Any suggestion that we filed these
charges for any other reason is false.”  Aleynikov, who is unemployed, relies on the charity of
friends for shelter and doesn’t have the funds to fight the
state case or pay Marino’s law firm an initial retainer of
$500,000, according to the New Jersey lawsuit. Marino said his
client lost his house, his wife left him and he lost his job.  “He left Russia for freedom, justice and the American
way,” Marino said in court. “And he got  Franz Kafka  and
Goldman Sachs.”  The criminal case is New York v. Aleynikov, 04447-2012, New
York State Supreme Court (Manhattan). The New Jersey case is
Aleynikov v. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., 12-cv-05994, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  