-- Facebook Unveils Gift-Giving Feature to Add New Revenue Source
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-09-27T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/facebook-unveils-gift-giving-feature-to-add-new-revenue-source.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  unveiled a gift-
giving feature that will let users buy and send items to their
friends without leaving the site, as the owner of the world’s
most popular social network seeks new ways to add revenue.  The gift service is starting off in the U.S., and will have
hundreds of options with more added daily from partners such as
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  1-800-Flowers.com Inc. (FLWS) , the company said.
Facebook, which  acquired  gift-giving application Karma earlier
this year, will share an undisclosed percentage of the revenue
with partners.  “Every day, millions of people share special moments with
their friends on Facebook by saying ‘Happy Birthday,’
‘Congratulations,’ or simply, ‘I’m thinking of you,’ ” Facebook
said in a statement. “Now there is another way to celebrate
those moments.”  Facebook, under investor scrutiny about its ability to make
money from its more than 950 million members, is adding features
to boost revenue. The  Menlo Park , California-based company is
also facing competition for user attention and advertising from
rivals such as Google Inc., Yahoo! Inc. and Amazon.com Inc.
Facebook reported in July that second-quarter sales increased 32
percent, down from growth of 45 percent in the previous three
months.  Using Facebook Gifts, users can pay immediately or add
payment details later. Recipients can choose the color, size or
flavor of an item or exchange it for something else. Gifts
include cupcakes at Magnolia Bakery in New York or gift cards
from Starbucks. The service lets members choose whether to post
the gift to a friend’s Facebook Timeline or alert them
privately.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  