-- Fifth October Forties Crude Deferred; Socar Fails to Sell Azeri
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-09-27T16:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/fifth-october-forties-crude-deferred-socar-fails-to-sell-azeri.html
There were no bids or offers in the
 North Sea  Forties market. One cargo of the  benchmark  crude cargo
for loading in October was delayed by two days, bringing total
deferrals for next month to five, according to two people with
knowledge of the loading program.  State Oil Co. of  Azerbaijan , or Socar, failed to sell a lot
of Azeri blend. OAO Surgutneftegas,  Russia ’s fourth-largest oil
producer, sold three Urals cargoes totaling 345,000 metric tons
for loading next month to Statoil ASA and Talmay Trading,
according to three traders who participate in the market.  North Sea  Forties consignment F1011 will now be exported on Oct. 22
to Oct. 24, said the people, declining to be identified because
the information is confidential.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Before the session,
Forties loading in 10 to 25 days was 25 cents less than Dated
Brent, compared with a discount of 28 cents yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Brent for November settlement traded at $111.65 a barrel on
the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London at the close of the
window, down from $109.05 yesterday. It had earlier risen as
much as 2.1 percent. The December contract was at $110.76, a
discount of 89 cents to November.  Mediterranean/Urals  Socar failed to find a buyer of 600,000 barrels of Azeri
Light for Oct. 18 to Oct. 22 loading from Supsa on the Black Sea
at $3 a barrel more than Dated Brent, on a delivered basis to
Augusta, according to a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers
monitoring the Platts trading window.  Statoil was awarded two Urals cargoes of 100,000 tons each
from the  Baltic Sea , one for Oct. 15 to Oct. 16 from Primorsk
and the other for Oct. 12 to Oct. 13 from Ust-Luga, the people
said, declining to be identified because the information is
confidential.  Talmay got a shipment for 145,000 tons for Oct. 15 to Oct.
16 loading from the  Black Sea  port of Novorossiysk, they said.  Sonatrach, the Algerian state-run oil producer, raised its
official selling price for benchmark Saharan Blend crude for
loading in October to 20 cents a barrel less than Dated Brent,
according to an e-mailed price list from the company. This
compares with a discount of 80 cents for September.  Sudan  and  South Sudan  agreed to set up a demilitarized
buffer zone along their border and resume oil exports while
leaving the issue of the disputed region of Abyei for future.  “The timeline for a full resumption of the 350,000 barrels
a day production is quite long and might last anywhere from six
to 12 months, with the latter looking like the more probable
estimate,”  David Wech , managing director at Vienna-based
researcher JBC Energy GmbH, said today in an e-mailed report.  Urals was at $1.74 a barrel less than Dated Brent for
delivery in northwest Europe, up 1 cent from yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  West Africa  Uruguay’s state oil and gas company Administracion Nacional
de Combustibles Alcohol y  Portland , known as Ancap, issued a
tender to buy as much as 1 million barrels of crude for delivery
Dec. 1 to Dec. 5, a document obtained by  Bloomberg News  showed.  The tender closes tomorrow at 10 a.m. Uruguay time, and
offers must remain valid until 6 p.m. Earlier this month, the
company bought 1 million barrels of Nigerian Bonga grade for
loading next month from Vitol Group, according to three traders
with knowledge of the matter.  Hindustan Petroleum Corp.,  India ’s third-largest state
refiner, bought via a tender from Glencore International Plc 2
million barrels of Nigerian crude, said three traders with
knowledge of the matter.  Glencore sold Qua Iboe for loading in November, according
to the traders, who asked not to be identified because the
information is confidential. Hindustan Petroleum paid $2.60 to
$2.80 a barrel premium to Dated Brent, two of the traders said.  Qua Iboe rose 3 cents to $1.86 a barrel more than Dated
Brent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
highest since June 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in  London  at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  