-- First Gen Plans $3 Billion Expansion as Power Supply Tightens
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-09-27T02:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/first-gen-plans-3-billion-expansion-as-power-supply-tightens.html
First Gen Corp. (FGEN) , the  Philippines ’
second-largest electricity producer, may invest as much as $3
billion in the next six years building  power plants  and a
liquefied natural gas terminal in an effort to boost capacity by
more than half, President Francis Giles Puno said.  “There’s room for additional capacity,” Puno said in an
interview in his office in Manila yesterday. “We intend to meet
the needs of the market by expanding our platform.”  The owner of two of the country’s three gas-fired power
facilities will build another, which it will later expand, Puno
said. The company will also invest in wind and hydroelectric
projects, Puno added.  Power outages have hit some provinces in the country’s
south this year. Luzon island, which accounts for three quarters
of the nation’s electricity demand, will require at least 450
megawatts more in annual capacity starting in 2014, the
 Department of Energy  says on its website.  The $225 billion economy expanded 5.9 percent in the second
quarter, beating economists’ estimates, due to higher
consumption and state spending. Growth for the year may be at
the higher end of the government’s 5 percent to 6 percent
target, Economic Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan said on
Sept. 17  “Building infrastructure the country needs is a sure way
to sustain the nation’s economic momentum,” BDO Unibank chief
market strategist  Jonathan Ravelas  said. “Companies like First
Gen are taking advantage of the low  interest rates  and the
strong currency to support expansion.”  Profit Expectations  First Gen shares rose 0.1 percent to 19.14 pesos in Manila
trading yesterday, and have gained 31 percent so far this year.  Profit at First Gen will more than quadruple this year to
at least $150 million from $35 million in 2011 due to higher
earnings at unit  Energy Development Corp. (EDC) , the country’s largest
geothermal company. Its purchase of BG Group Plc’s 40 percent
stake in two gas plants they jointly own will also boost profit,
Puno said.  Talks are ongoing with a group of banks for a $400 million
loan due in 10 years “to reduce debt and have room for more
investments,” Puno said.  The acquisition from BG worth $360 million will boost First
Gen’s profit by $40 million a year and “unlock” the company’s
opportunity to increase its gas portfolio, Puno said.  Gas Plans  First Gen operates two gas plants with combined capacity of
1,500 megawatts, sourcing fuel from Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s
Malampaya field under a contract set to expire in 2024. Natural
gas accounts for 54 percent of the company’s generating
portfolio.  The company plans to build a third gas plant with an
initial capacity of as much as 400 megawatts to operate by 2014
with plans to possibly expand by an additional 800 megawatts
after four years.  First Gen is planning either a land-based LNG facility or a
floating LNG storage facility near the plants as a “replacement
source of gas,” Puno said. A land-based LNG terminal may cost
as much as $1.2 billion, he said.  “We’re preparing not only for the expiration of the
contract,” Puno said. “Even the planned expansion will require
a new source of gas.”  The company will spend $640 million for a wind farm and
several hydroelectric plants with combined generating capacity
of 177 megawatts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in  Manila  at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  