-- First Solar May Supply Panels for Biggest Solar Project
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-09-27T20:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/first-solar-may-supply-world-s-biggest-solar-power-plant.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s
largest maker of thin-film panels, may win a contract to supply
 NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE)  for what would be the world’s biggest solar
farm.  First Solar may be the only manufacturer with the capacity
to supply enough thin-film panels for NextEra’s Blythe project,
which is evaluating the technology, Ben Schuman, an analyst at
Pacific Crest Securities in Portland, Oregon, said today in an
interview.  NextEra is considering thin-film cadmium telluride solar
panels as one possible technology for its 1,000-megawatt Blythe
project in southern California, according to a  document  filed
with the California Energy Commission Sept. 24.  “It would definitely be a positive for First Solar if they
were able to win a 1,000-megawatt project,” Schuman said today
in an interview.  NextEra hasn’t decided on a panel supplier for the project
and may use more than one, said Steven Stengel, a spokesman for
the  Juno Beach , Florida-based power company.  First Solar, based in Tempe, Arizona, is already working
with the power company on another project, the 550-megawatt
Desert Sunlight power plant in Riverside County, California,
that’s jointly owned by NextEra and General Electric Co.  First Solar also built a 21-megawatt project in the city of
Blythe for  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  that was commissioned in 2009 and
sells electricity to  Edison International (EIX) ’s Southern California
Edison utility under a 20-year contract.  Blythe Purchase  NextEra received approval June 27 from a  bankruptcy court 
to purchase Blythe from the former developer, the bankrupt
SolarTrust of America LLC.  First Solar is building the 290-megawatt Agua Caliente
solar farm in Arizona for NRG. It’s 85 percent complete with
about 250 megawatts of capacity in operation, making it the
world’s biggest solar project producing electricity, according
to First Solar.  First Solar rose 11 percent to $23.11 at the close in New
York. The shares have declined 68 percent in the past year.  Alan Bernheimer , a First Solar spokesman, declined to comment on a
potential agreement with NextEra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  