-- Ford Says European Dealers Selling Vehicles to Themselves
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-09-27T15:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/ford-says-european-dealers-selling-vehicles-to-themselves.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , losing market share
in Europe this year, is boosting sales in the troubled region
through “self-registrations,” in which dealers sell cars to
themselves without having customer orders.  The practice has become widespread in Europe and accounted
for 30 percent of industry registrations in  Germany  in the first
eight months of the year, said Roelant de Waard, vice president
of marketing, sales and service at Ford of Europe. Dealers
eventually sell the cars as used vehicles at big discounts.  “It is a very aggressive environment and until either
demand picks up or capacity is adjusted to the situation, it’s
unlikely going to change,” de Waard said today during an
interview at the Paris Motor Show. “You have to live with the
realities of the industry.”  Ford led the biggest decline in European car sales in six
months in August, with industrywide registrations falling 8.5
percent from a year earlier to 722,483 vehicles, according to
the  European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association . The
automaker’s sales in the region dropped 29 percent to 43,401,
and its market share slipped to 6 percent from 7.7 percent a
year earlier, Brussels-based ACEA said in a Sept. 18 statement.  The economic crisis in Europe is sullying the turnaround
that Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has engineered at
Ford. European pretax operating losses expanded to $404 million
in the second quarter, from $149 million in the first quarter
and profit of $176 million a year earlier. Ford said July 25
that it now expects full-year European losses to exceed $1
billion, double its earlier forecast.  Recovery Prospects  “We expect that only by 2014 that we’ll potentially start
to see some recovery” in the European auto market, de Waard
said. He sees sales in 2013 being “roughly carryover” from
2012 and the range will depend whether governments decide to
restore incentives such as scrappage programs. “If those things
happen, you can see inflation of the market again.”  The European car market has shrunk for 11 consecutive
months as governments retrench amid a sovereign-debt crisis, and
the ACEA is forecasting a 17-year low for full-year sales. Ford
cited “heavy incentives that we decided to largely refrain
from” in a Sept. 18 statement about its August sales in the
region. The Dearborn, Michigan-based company said it expects a
“strong rebound” in September because of new models such as a
Focus equipped with a 1-liter EcoBoost engine.  Ford’s Strategy  Ford is trying to limit its participation in self-
registrations as it attempts to protect profit margins, de Waard
said. He declined to offer specifics on Ford’s margin targets.  Ford also “has more to do” to adjust its factory capacity
to declining demand, de Waard said, without offering specifics.
The automaker said Sept. 25 it plans to cut “a few hundred”
jobs in the region because of declining sales.  Ford is “most likely” to close its assembly plant in
Genk,  Belgium , and factories in  Valencia ,  Spain , and Cologne,
Germany, also “appear at risk,” Colin Langan, an analyst at
UBS Investment Research, wrote in a Sept. 17 report. Shutting
the Genk plant would result in potential annual savings of about
$500 million and may be completed by the end of 2013, he wrote.  Ford is utilizing just 63 percent of its factory capacity
in  Europe , according to Morgan Stanley. The automaker needs to
reduce capacity by at least 20 percent, Adam Jonas, a New York-
based analyst for Morgan Stanley, said this month. The
automaker’s European losses could reach $1.5 billion to $2
billion this year, he estimated.  Factory Capacity  Ford and other automakers in Europe recognize the need to
reduce factory capacity as car sales collapse in the region,
Mulally said this month. Automakers in Europe have enough
factory capacity to build 18 million vehicles a year, he said,
and sales are running at less than a 14 million annual rate.  Ford avoided bankruptcy by borrowing $23.4 billion in late
2006, less than four months after Mulally, 67, arrived from
 Boeing Co. (BA)  The automaker put up all major assets, including its
blue oval logo, as collateral. It recovered control of those
assets in May after Moody’s Investors Service followed  Fitch
Ratings  in upgrading Ford’s debt to an investment-grade  credit
rating .  Standard & Poor’s , the only major credit ratings company
that hasn’t raised Ford to investment grade, said Aug. 10 it
expects the automaker will act decisively to fix its European
operations. The ratings company at the time boosted its outlook
on Ford to positive.  New Models  Mulally in Amsterdam this month unveiled 15 new models Ford
will be introducing in Europe over the next five years,
including a redesigned Mondeo sedan and three new sport-utility
vehicles. Mulally also said Ford would bring the Mustang sports
car to Europe “soon,” without specifying when.  The automaker is trying to counter Europe’s slump as it
readies succession plans for Mulally’s eventual departure.  Mark Fields , Ford’s president of the Americas, is set to be promoted
to chief operating officer, assuming global responsibilities to
help turn around the unprofitable European operations, a person
familiar with the plan said this month.  Mulally, speaking to reporters after a press conference on
Sept. 18 in  New York , said that he has no plans to retire.  Fields, 51, helped lead a transformation of its North
American operations from record losses four years ago to record
profits this year. The company earned $4.14 billion in  North
America  in 2012’s first half and had an operating profit margin
of 10.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Paris at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  