-- Commerzbank Tax Director Broke Law When at IRS, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-09-28T17:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/former-irs-examiner-charged-with-violating-u-s-tax-laws.html
A  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  executive who
worked at the U.S. Internal Revenue Service was charged with a
criminal conflict-of-interest by seeking a job with the bank as
he negotiated a $210 million settlement on behalf of the IRS.  David Lerner, 59, was an IRS international examiner from
June 2010 until August 2011. While at the IRS, he conducted an
audit of whether the bank had $1 billion in unreported income,
U.S. prosecutors charged yesterday. Lerner negotiated a
settlement with the bank as he secured a job there as tax
director, never notifying the IRS of his new job, prosecutors
charged.  After starting work at the bank, he improperly contacted
IRS officials to seek information about the audit and encourage
them to approve the settlement, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
charged in  New York . Lerner also improperly revealed the name of
a bank whistle-blower who triggered the audit, prosecutors said.  “Lerner’s violations of basic conflict-of-interest laws
were brazen,” Bharara said in a statement. “Not only did he
flout those laws in order to curry favor with a prospective
employer, but he also illegally disclosed the identity of a
whistle-blower.”  Bharara and the criminal charges referred to Lerner’s
employer only as “an international bank.” A Commerzbank
spokeswoman, Simone Fuchs, said he was an employee there. The
Frankfurt-based bank is fully cooperating with the authorities,
Fuchs said by e-mail, declining to comment further.  $210 Million  Neither the IRS nor the bank announced the $210 million
accord referred to in the criminal complaint. On Aug. 10, 2011,
the bank wired the funds to the IRS, “in contemplation of the
still-pending settlement,” according to the complaint.  A day later, Lerner secured his job there as tax director,
prosecutors said. Commerzbank,  Germany ’s second-largest lender,
wasn’t charged with any crime.  Lerner, of Edgewater,  New Jersey , was accused of four
criminal counts and faces as long as 20 years in prison if
convicted. He appeared yesterday before U.S. Magistrate Judge
Gabriel Gorenstein, who freed him on a $300,000 bond secured by
two co-signers.  Lerner and his lawyer, Jonathan Marvinny, declined to
comment after the hearing.  Whistle-Blower Claim  The whistle-blower claimed the bank received “in excess of
$1 billion in untaxed income” related to transactions not
specified in the complaint by Erik Wood, an agent with the
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration.  The tentative settlement was “approximately 62 percent of
the total theoretical tax liability related to the transactions
at issue,” according to the complaint. Bank officials believed
that “any settlement valued between $200 million and
$300 million would have been considered a favorable
disposition.”  Lerner “actively negotiated the settlement without the
presence of any other IRS employees,” prosecutors alleged.  After telling the IRS he was leaving, Lerner’s supervisors
told him of a “lifetime prohibition” against communicating
information about his work at the agency. They also said he
could not try to influence former colleagues while working in
the private sector, the U.S. said. He began working for the bank
on Sept. 1, 2011, the U.S. said.  Repeated Inquiries  In his new position, Lerner made repeated inquiries to
former IRS colleagues about the status of the pending
settlement, prosecutors charged.  In October 2011, Lerner revealed the whistle-blower’s
identity to a bank employee, according to the complaint.  “We will not tolerate breaches of public trust by IRS
employees, as alleged in today’s complaint,” the IRS said in a
statement yesterday.  Lerner repeatedly expressed his boredom and dissatisfaction
with the IRS in e-mails sent on a personal account to a former
co-worker at a bank where he previously worked, Wood wrote.
Lerner, who “appears to have been in a romantic relationship”
with the recipient, detailed his search for another job in the
private sector, where he had made more money.  “My day is empty and without any purpose,” Lerner wrote.
“No prospects, no job, no pay, nothing. I can’t even get one
interview. This just sucks so bad you have no idea.”  The former co-worker e-mailed Lerner’s resume to a bank
employee. Lerner, the bank employee and the bank’s chief
financial officer met on July 8, 2011, according to Wood’s
complaint. Lerner said he was fired from his last bank job and
took the IRS post to “maintain contacts within the industry.”  ‘Couldn’t Leave’  He said he “couldn’t leave” the IRS to join the bank
“without a settlement.”  After joining the bank, Lerner made many calls to the IRS
to check on the status of the audit. One IRS worker told him he
needed to recuse himself, yet Lerner continued to call,
according to the complaint.  That IRS worker then contacted the inspector general’s
office, which recorded Lerner’s words in several calls and
meetings. Lerner complained to the IRS about the agency’s
request for additional documents, saying an agreement was
already in place. At one meeting, an IRS official told Lerner he
shouldn’t represent the bank. He continued to complain.  “The bank has already paid a substantial amount of
money,” Lerner said in December 2011, according to the
complaint. “There’s going to be no other payment, in terms of,
you know, the rest of the audit, so.”  In revealing the name of the whistle-blower to a bank
employee, Lerner said: “Doesn’t it suck that someone you trust
would turn their back on you?”  The case is U.S. v. Lerner, 12-mag-2520, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  