-- Frederic Lexow II, Ex-JPMorgan Trading Chief, Dies at 49
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-09-27T01:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/frederic-lexow-ii-ex-jpmorgan-trading-chief-dies-at-49.html
Frederic R. Lexow II, who worked
his way up from the back office to running the equities-trading
desk during a 22-year career at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s asset-
management unit, has died. He was 49.  Lexow died on Sept. 22 at Yale- New Haven  Hospital in New
Haven,  Connecticut . He had had a heart attack related to
complications from a two-year battle with recurring staph
infections, according to his wife, Nanette Buziak Lexow.  An avid golfer, boater and cook, Lexow started his career
in 1986 at JPMorgan’s operations department in  New York ,
manually settling transactions and processing trade corrections.
Well-liked among the traders, he was promoted to a junior spot
on the desk trading energy-sector equities in 1987, according to
two former colleagues. Lexow was later made a managing director.  “He would put up huge blocks of trades pretty effortlessly
and had a pretty good rapport with the street,” said Eva Walsh,
an  executive director  at JPMorgan who worked for Lexow for a
decade. “He got the opportunity to run a desk off of his
trading prowess.”  Lexow also was a supportive boss, she said, promoting her
while she was on maternity leave.  Chris Mahler, a former colleague who is now chief operating
officer at Weeden & Co. in Greenwich, Connecticut, said Lexow
made people feel at ease around him.  “He was fun-loving, generous,” said Mahler, who worked
with Lexow as a trader from 1987 until Mahler left JPMorgan in
1996. “He took a young group and trained them, he helped them
forge relationships with  Wall Street .”  Bank Meeting  Lexow also met his wife at the bank.  “I always joked that we met with him taking orders from me
as I was a former portfolio manager at JPMorgan,” Buziak Lexow
said yesterday in an e-mail. She left the bank in 2005 for ING
Investment Management where she is head of equity trading. In
2007, the couple married at the Greenbrier Resort in White
Sulphur Springs,  West Virginia . It was his second marriage.  In 2009, Lexow lost his job at the bank as part of  cutbacks 
following the financial crisis.  Frederic Rudolph Lexow II was born on Aug. 8, 1963, in
 Stamford , Connecticut, to Eric and Jody Baldwin Lexow. He grew
up in Darien, Connecticut, and graduated from Tabor Academy in
Marion,  Massachusetts , in 1982.  Lexow received a bachelor’s degree in history from  Tulane
University  in  New Orleans  in 1986 and a master’s in business
administration from  Fordham University  in New York in 1993.  ‘At Peace’  For the last 20 years, he resided in Westport, Connecticut.  Lexow’s doctors never determined how he contracted the
initial staph infection that attacked many of his internal
organs more than two years ago, his wife said.  The infection destroyed his kidneys and left him on
dialysis treatments three days a week. His health was stable
until about a week ago when another staph infection attacked his
heart and sent him into cardiac arrest, she said.  “He’s at peace now and at least he’s not suffering,
because dialysis three days a week is really tough,” Buziak
Lexow said. “He would leave for dialysis when I was leaving for
work” and wouldn’t finish until lunchtime, she said.  Lexow worked as a consultant after leaving JPMorgan. From
2006 to 2010, he also served on the board of the National
Organization of Investment Professionals.  He was a dedicated New York Yankees fan, traveling to
Baltimore for the Sept. 8 game against the Orioles with his wife
and friends. Although the Yankees lost 5-4, the group had a
great time, Buziak Lexow said. They happened to be staying at
the Four Seasons hotel in Baltimore, along with the Yankees, and
caught shortstop  Derek Jeter  as he was leaving for the next
day’s game.  In addition to his wife and parents, his survivors include
a daughter from his first marriage, Sylvie Sutton Lexow, and two
sisters, Sarah Lexow Keena of Darien and Amy Lexow of Jamestown,
 Rhode Island .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  