-- Friedland Seeks IPO as Convertible Cost Rises: Corporate Canada
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-09-27T14:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/friedland-seeks-ipo-as-convertible-cost-rises-corporate-canada.html
Billionaire mining investor Robert Friedland is seeking C$300 million ($305 million) in an initial
public offering to pay for an African venture and to allow it to
redeem convertible bonds whose interest rates will soon double.  Friedland’s  Ivanplats Ltd. (0604863D)  plans to sell shares in Toronto
and has started meeting with potential investors, according to a
person familiar with the sale, who declined to be identified
because the details haven’t been published. The sale will help
fund copper exploration projects and provide equity for
convertible bondholders before rates on the debt jump to almost
19 percent on Nov. 10, according to the IPO prospectus.  The three-year notes were sold last year with an escalating
 interest rate  that soars again to 26 percent in November 2013
unless they’re redeemed for stock, according to the 305-page
document.  “It’s a gun to the head,” Geof Marshall, who helps manage
$6.3 billion of fixed-income investments at CI Investments Inc.
in Toronto, said by telephone on Sept. 21. “The longer they
wait, the more the equity holders’ piece of the pie gets smaller
and smaller.”  The pressure to sell shares adds to what’s becoming a
challenging year for Friedland, 62. In April, he lost control of
Mongolian copper miner  Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ) , a company
he founded, to a takeover effort by London-based Rio Tinto
Group. Two months later, Friedland -- who has a net worth of at
least $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg --
subscribed for about C$261 million of a Turquoise Hill rights
offer to avoid diluting his 14 percent stake.  Investor Meetings  Friedland, who lives in  Singapore , wasn’t immediately
available for comment, according to a spokesman, and didn’t
respond to e-mails.  Terms of the IPO may be made available to the investors as
soon as this week, according to the person familiar with the
sale.  Excluding funds set aside specifically for its South
African platinum-mining joint venture, Ivanplats has enough cash
to last until the end of October, according to the prospectus.  “In the event the offering is not successful, the company
would need to raise additional funding, whether by debt or
equity,” Ivanplats says in the document.  Friedland was born in  Chicago  and began investing in mining
in the late 1980s. His first multibillion-dollar deal came in
the 1990s when, as co-chairman of Diamond Field Resources Inc.,
the owner of the Voisey’s Bay nickel deposit, Friedland presided
over a bidding war between Canadian miners Inco Ltd. and
Falconbridge Ltd. Inco paid C$4.3 billion for the project in
1996.  Congo Copper  Turquoise Hill signed an option in 2000 to explore in
Mongolia. That led to its acquisition of the Oyu Tolgoi project,
which is now a $6 billion copper and gold project under
construction in the Gobi Desert.  Ivanplats has a stake in the Platreef platinum project in
 South Africa  and copper assets in the  Democratic Republic  of
Congo. It will cost about $2 billion to develop the Kamoa copper
project in Congo, according to the prospectus.  While Congo holds a treasure trove of natural-resource
wealth, the country is among the world’s riskiest to do
business, according to a report last month by Maplecroft, a
Bath, England-based risk-analysis company.  “That’s possibly why the escalating rates on these bonds
are so high,” said CI’s Marshall, who doesn’t own the bonds.
“It’s to compensate for the cyclicality of mining and the
geopolitical risk of operating in non-developed geographies.”  Gertler Debt  Ivanplats has sold $165 million of convertible bonds since
Nov. 10. Ivanhoe Mines Ltd., as Turquoise Hill was known before
Rio gained control, bought $15 million of the bonds, according
to the prospectus.  Ivanplats sold the first $115 million tranche of the bonds
in November, the same month it bought a 68 percent interest in
the mothballed Kipushi zinc and copper mine in Congo’s Katanga
province, according to the prospectus.  Ivanplats still owes money to Israeli businessman Dan Gertler for Kipushi and will pay him as much as $105 million if
the IPO raises at least $250 million, according to the document.
Ivanplats must still pay $85 million by Dec. 14 even if the
share sale doesn’t go ahead as planned.  The IPO would be the third-largest Canadian mining offering
since at least 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Franco-Nevada Corp. (FNV)  raised $1.26 billion in a 2007 offering
while  Tahoe Resources Inc. (THO)  sold $365.4 million of stock in 2010.  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  is leading a group of underwriters for the
Ivanplats sale including Morgan Stanley, Macquarie Group Ltd.
and Royal Bank of Canada, according to the prospectus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  