-- FSA to Oversee Libor in Streamlining of Tarnished Rates
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-09-28T10:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/fsa-to-oversee-libor-in-streamlining-of-tarnished-rates.html
Oversight of Libor will be handed
to the U.K.’s financial regulator, and dozens of the currencies
and maturities that make up the benchmark axed, under proposals
designed to revive confidence in a rate tarnished by scandal.  The  British Bankers ’ Association should be stripped of the
responsibility for managing the rate and other organizations
invited to replace it, Financial Services Authority Managing
Director Martin Wheatley said in London today. More than 100
Libor rates tied to currencies and maturities where there isn’t
enough trading data to set them properly should be scrapped, and
a code of conduct introduced for how lenders contribute to the
benchmark backed by criminal penalties, he added.  “Governance of Libor has completely failed,” Wheatley
said as he unveiled a report on the future of Libor. “This
problem has been exacerbated by a lack of regulation and a
comprehensive mechanism to punish those who manipulate the
system.”  Wheatley began his review at the request of Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  after  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s
second-biggest lender, paid a record 290 million-pound ($470
million) fine in June for manipulating the London interbank
offered rate, used to set rates for more than $300 trillion of
securities.  ‘Not an Option’  The FSA should receive greater powers to vet bankers who
contribute to the rate, according to Wheatley, who will become
the chief executive officer of the Financial Conduct Authority,
when the FSA splits into two agencies next year.  He stopped short of advocating scrapping Libor, saying that
would be too disruptive to borrowers whose existing contracts
reference the rate.  “Repealing Libor was just not an option,” said  Simon Maughan , a banking analyst at Olivetree Securities Ltd. in
 London . “He’s done the right thing here,” he said. “Improve
it, make it based on real transaction costs, get rid of some of
the currencies, that seems like a sensible approach.”  Libor is calculated by a poll carried out daily by Thomson
Reuters Corp. on behalf of the BBA, a banking industry lobby
group, that asks firms to estimate how much it would cost to
borrow from each other for different periods and in different
currencies. The top and bottom quartiles of quotes are excluded,
and those left are averaged and published for individual
currencies before noon in London.  The FSA will encourage more banks to submit quotes as part
of the revamp, Wheatley said, and could force uncooperative
banks to submit quotes with its new powers.  Cutting Rates  The number of Libor reference rates should be cut to 20
from 150 within a year by phasing out currencies and maturities
in which trading is thin, Wheatley said. Publication of Libor
for Australian, Canadian and New Zealand dollars, as well as the
Danish Kroner and Swedish Kronor should be ended, he said.  Four-month, five-month, seven-month, eight-month, 10-month
and 11-month rates should be axed, while eliminating one week,
two-week, two-month and nine-month tenors should also be
considered, according to the proposals.  Banks will also have to follow a code of conduct governing
how they make their daily submissions. Rate-setters will have to
base their inputs on a hierarchy of data points, starting with
any actual transactions in the unsecured inter-bank deposit
market, he said. Where none exist, banks should then consider
any borrowings in other instruments including commercial paper,
repurchase agreements and overnight-index swaps.  Wheatley also proposed banks wait three months before
disclosing publicly their own Libor submissions. To rectify the
“reduction in immediate transparency” he recommended lenders
publish a regular bulletin that includes trading volumes.  First Priority  The “first priority” of Libor’s new administrator will be
to create a code of conduct for rate submitters with specific
guidelines that the submissions be corroborated by trade data,
he said.  “Transactions will need to be recorded and there needs to
be a requirement for regular external audit of submitting
firms,” Wheatley said.  The tender process to take responsibility for setting Libor
will start next week and be run by an independent committee led
by Sarah Hogg, the chairwoman of the  Financial Reporting
Council . Wheatley said the bidding should take about three
months.  The BBA’s role as guardian of Libor has been under pressure
since the  Bank for International Settlements  first raised
concern in 2008 that the benchmark was being manipulated.  Trade Association  The new manager of the Libor rate should be “an
“organization that won’t be conflicted, like a trade
association would be,” Wheatley said.  At least a dozen banks are being probed by regulators
worldwide over allegations they colluded to manipulate the
benchmark to profit from bets on derivatives.  “Many respondents thought that the current position of the
BBA is untenable due to its loss of credibility from past
involvement in Libor and its vested interest in defending the
banks,” the report said. “The BBA acts as the lobby
organisation for the same submitting banks that they nominally
oversee, creating a conflict of interest that precludes strong
and credible governance.”  Intrinsic Part  “With Libor being such an intrinsic part of the financial
system, restoring trust in it is an important step towards the
broader task of rebuilding confidence in banking,”  Matthew Fell , director for competitive markets at the  Confederation of
British Industry , said in an e-mail. “Bringing Libor under an
independent regulator will take away the notion that this was a
system run by banks for the benefit of banks.”  Other benchmarks, such as for the prices of agricultural
products, oil and precious metals, and in the equity, bond and
money markets, should be looked at as well, Wheatley said.  The European Union, which is conducting its own review of
interest-rate benchmarks, including Euribor, said that any
solution must apply across a wide range of markets.  “Concerns about benchmarks are not limited to interest
rate benchmarks, but extend to all kinds of benchmarks,
including commodity and benchmarks for other markets,” the EU
said in a statement.  Dan Doctoroff , CEO of Bloomberg LP, has proposed an
alternative to Libor dubbed the Bloomberg Interbank Offered
Rate, or Blibor. It would use data from a variety of financial
transactions to better reflect participating banks’ real cost of
credit. Bloomberg LP is the parent of  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net 
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  