-- Europe Leads U.S. 4-0 in Early Play at Golf’s Ryder Cup Matches
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-09-28T14:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/furyk-snedeker-to-face-mcilroy-mcdowell-in-ryder-cup-opener.html
Europe leads the U.S. in all four
matches during early play at the Ryder Cup, golf’s top
international team competition.  Rory McIlroy and Graeme McDowell, both of Northern Ireland,
hold a 1-up lead on  Jim Furyk  and Brandt Snedeker through nine
holes at Medinah Country Club outside Chicago.  Luke Donald and Sergio Garcia lead by one hole, or 1-up,
through seven holes in their match with  Phil Mickelson  and
Keegan Bradley;  Lee Westwood  and Francesco Molinari lead  Zach Johnson  and  Jason Dufner  1-up through seven; and Englishmen Ian Poulter and Justin Rose are 1-up on Tiger Woods and Steve Stricker through five holes.  The event began today with foursomes. Players in each two-
man team take alternate shots with the same ball, with the
lowest score winning the hole.  The afternoon session will feature fourballs, in which each
golfer in the two-man teams plays his own ball, with the lowest
individual score winning the hole.  The U.S. team features five of the top 10 players in the
Official World Golf Ranking, while four of the European golfers
are ranked among the top five.  The U.S. is a 4-6 favorite at U.K. bookmaker  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD) ,
meaning a successful $6 bet will return $4 plus the original
stake. Europe is 6-4.  Europe has won three of the past four editions of the Ryder
Cup, including a one-point victory in 2010 at Celtic Manor
Resort in Newport, Wales.  Experienced Rookies  While the U.S. team features four Ryder Cup rookies, they
don’t lack experience.  Webb Simpson  won the U.S. Open in June, Bradley won last
year’s PGA Championship and Snedeker secured last week’s Tour
Championship and FedEx Cup title. Only Dufner, who lost to
Bradley in a playoff at the PGA, doesn’t have a significant
victory, although he won PGA Tour events in New Orleans and
Texas this year.  Nicolas Colsaerts of Belgium is the only European player
without Ryder Cup experience.  There will be another day of foursomes and fourballs
tomorrow before the final 12 singles matches on Sept. 30. The
U.S. needs 14 1/2 of the possible 28 points to win back the cup,
while Europe needs 14 points to retain it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  