-- GE Engine in China Didn’t Fail From Same Cause as U.S. Case
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-09-27T19:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/ge-engine-in-china-didn-t-fail-from-same-cause-as-u-s-incident.html
A  General Electric Co. (GE)  jet engine
that failed Sept. 11 in  China  didn’t have the cracked shaft that
caused a similar engine to spew hot metal during a July 28 test
in South Carolina, U.S. investigators said today.  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board, which is
assisting the Civil Aviation Administration of China’s
investigation, said in an e-mailed release that the GEnx engine
on a  Boeing Co. (BA)  747-8 failed in Shanghai for different, as yet
undetermined reasons.  Preliminary evidence from the Chinese investigation
suggests the engine suffered relatively minor damage, according
to two persons familiar with the probe. The type of damage
doesn’t point to a systemic issue, one of the people said. They
said they weren’t authorized to speak publicly about the
investigation, which is continuing.  The NTSB previously said initial evidence in the Shanghai
incident suggested a cracked mid-shaft, which is what caused a
GEnx engine on a Boeing 787 to break apart in Charleston,  South
Carolina .  After the July 28 incident, inspectors discovered a second
cracked shaft on a GEnx engine that hadn’t yet flown. The U.S.
 Federal Aviation Administration , which regulates the aviation
industry, followed with an order for inspections.  Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings Inc. (AAWW) , the Purchase, New York-
based cargo carrier, is the only U.S. airline flying Boeing jets
that fell under the FAA rule. Both of Atlas’s 747-8 cargo jets
have been inspected and the engines didn’t have cracks, the
company said in a release.  All in-service GEnx engines have now been inspected,
according to the NTSB release.  The GEnx family of engines uses new technology and lighter
materials to gain efficiency, according to GE’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  