-- Geithner Urges Regulators to Press on Money-Market Overhaul
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-09-27T22:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/geithner-urges-regulators-to-press-sec-on-money-market-overhaul.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  put pressure on the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to tighten oversight of the $2.6 trillion money-
market fund industry, saying the funds may pose a risk to the
stability of the financial system.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group of
regulators that includes the SEC and is headed by the Treasury,
should release for public comment options for an overhaul of the
funds, an alternative to bank accounts for individuals and
companies, Geithner said in a letter to the council today.  “Without further reform of MMFs, our financial system will
remain vulnerable to runs and instability,” Geithner said. He
said he wants the council to consider the recommendations at its
November meeting.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  last month gave up on a plan to
tighten regulation of the funds after three of the five
commissioners -- Republicans Daniel Gallagher and  Troy Paredes ,
joined by Democrat  Luis Aguilar  -- told her they wouldn’t vote
to issue it for public comment.  Geithner’s letter “significantly increases the political
pressure for the SEC to take another look at this,” said Joseph Engelhard, senior vice president of Washington-based investment
advisory firm Capital Alpha Partners LLC.  The SEC “is best positioned to implement reforms to
address the risks that MMFs present to the economy,” Geithner
wrote. Even so, he said, the council and its members should
“take active steps in the event the SEC is unwilling to act in
a timely and effective manner.”  Dodd-Frank Act  Geithner said the council should use its authority under
the Dodd-Frank law to designate the activities of  money-market
funds  as systemic, which would act as a formal recommendation to
the SEC to act. Geithner said FSOC also has authority to
designate individual firms or to label them as payment, clearing
and settlement activities, which would put them under heightened
supervision.  Schapiro said in an opinion piece in the Wall Street
Journal last week that the FSOC is the “right organization to
tackle this issue.”  Geithner today recommended considering three steps to
reduce the risk funds might pose to the financial system:
floating net asset values, requiring funds to hold capital
buffers of “adequate size,” likely less than 1 percent, and
imposing capital and enhanced liquidity standards.  Financial Crisis  The SEC, along with the Federal Reserve and the Treasury,
has pressed to make money funds safer since the September 2008
collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund, which
triggered an industrywide run and helped freeze credit markets.
The crisis calmed only after the Treasury temporarily guaranteed
shareholders against losses and the Fed began buying fund assets
at face value to help them meet redemptions.  “The chairman has long believed that addressing the
susceptibility of money market funds to destabilizing runs is a
critical piece of unfinished business from the financial
crisis,” SEC spokesman  John Nester  said today in a statement.
“That is why she has advocated for reforms to bolster the
structure of these funds. She is very pleased that this
important reform initiative is moving forward.”  The SEC’s Gallagher, in an interview earlier today, said he
would support a measure forcing the industry to abandon its
marquee $1 share price. Requiring funds to have a fluctuating
share price “is an attractive option that I am likely to
support,” he said.  Extra Capital  Gallagher said he couldn’t vote for Schapiro’s plan because
its centerpiece was to make the funds hold extra capital. The
proposed cushion was too small to protect investors, Gallagher
said.  Schapiro has argued that the funds’ $1 share price
encourages investors to flee at the first sign of trouble.
That’s because those who react quickly can sell their shares at
$1 each even if the net asset value has dropped below that
level.  The industry has maintained that a floating share price
would make money funds unworkable for many investors by saddling
them with new accounting and tax obligations. In addition,
insurers, municipalities and other large users of money funds
are often legally bound to invest assets they account for as
cash in funds with a stable share price.  The FSOC meets in a closed session tomorrow. The council
may also vote to request confidential data from non-bank
financial companies that might later be branded as systemically
important, two people with knowledge of the plans said this
month. Companies designated by the FSOC would be subject to
 Federal Reserve  supervision.  Bailed-out insurer American International Group Inc. has
said it meets thresholds the council set to decide which firms
require further evaluation.  GE Capital , a unit of General
Electric Co., has said it expects to be named systemically
important.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  