-- Hedge Funds and Old GM Trust Fail in Settlement Talks
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-03-19T16:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/general-motors-cfo-says-unaware-of-morgan-stanley-role.html
Elliott International LP and a unit
of  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  are among hedge funds that
failed to reach an agreement with the trust liquidating General
Motors’ old assets over $3 billion in claims related to the
automaker’s 2009 bankruptcy filing, according to court papers.  The dispute stems from a settlement made between the hedge
funds and a Canadian unit of GM the day of the bankruptcy
filing. The trust liquidating the old assets, called Motors
Liquidation Company GUC Trust, seeks to reduce or eliminate the
claims that the hedge funds negotiated.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chief Financial Officer, Daniel Ammann, testified in past hearings that a negative outcome in
the dispute over the Canadian notes could cost the automaker,
now out of bankruptcy, as much as $918 million, or 50 cents a
share.  That damage estimate is the upper end of a range, Amman
said, and was disclosed in the company’s August quarterly
report. Through the settlement, the note holders had a $3
billion claim against Old GM’s estate, more than the $1 billion
face value of their notes, according to lawsuit.  Mediation “has now concluded without the parties reaching
a settlement,” lawyers for the trust wrote.  11th Hour Opportunity  The trust sued four hedge funds in  Manhattan  bankruptcy
court last March, alleging that while GM was preparing its
bankruptcy filing on June 1, 2009, the funds, which held notes
in a Canadian unit of GM, “saw an eleventh-hour opportunity for
profit and pounced.”  The four funds, which bought stakes in the Nova Scotia unit
before the filing, negotiated the terms of the Nova Scotia
notes’ claim based on issues such as an intercompany loan just
before the bankruptcy filing. They are still waiting to have
their recovery in the bankruptcy finalized, along with other
creditors.  General unsecured creditors allege in the lawsuit that the
funds steered events leading up to GM’s Chapter 11 filing to
give them a position of power that allowed them to make the
claim three times the size of what they were actually owed,
improperly benefitting themselves at the expense of general
creditors.  Hedge funds say they didn’t do anything improper, and that
if general creditors undo the agreement they struck in the hours
before the bankruptcy, it will scuttle the entire deal that
separated liabilities from GM’s profitable business, hurting the
reorganized automaker.  General Creditors  Motors Liquidation Co.’s bankruptcy plan repays general
unsecured creditors through a trust with stock and two series of
warrants, according to court papers. The GUC Trust brought the
lawsuit on behalf of general unsecured creditors.  Ammann,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s former head of industrials
investment banking, made his testimony about the damage GM might
suffer in September in a trial over how the bankruptcy treats
general creditors and hedge funds.  The initial funds sued were units of Elliott Management
Corp., Fortress Investment Group LLC, Appaloosa Management LP
and Aurelius Capital Management LP.  The current note holders are Elliott International LP,
Liverpool, LP, Drawbridge DSO Securities LLC, Drawbridge OSO
Securities LLC, FCOF UB Securities LLC and Morgan Stanley & CO.
International Plc, according to court papers. FCOF is a unit of
Fortress.  Last Arguments  As the trial resumed today in the courtroom of U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Robert Gerber, Gerber said the last arguments
would be heard.  “We’re going to finish up this trial today,” Gerber said.  GM has said in court papers that the lawsuit’s claims
“threaten to disturb” the sale that saved the automaker by
splitting it into a new company and old assets that would
liquidate in bankruptcy.  The agreement negotiated before the filing with the hedge
funds, known as the “lock-up agreement” resolved a dispute
over intercompany loans and allowed the U.S. and Canadian
governments to buy GM  Canada  without requiring a separate
bankruptcy, GM said.  Voiding the lock-up agreement “could create a chaotic
situation for GM Canada, spawn new litigation in other forums,
and potentially provide a windfall to the noteholders,” lawyers
for GM wrote in court papers.  Notes  The notes at issue -- 8.375 percent notes due in 2015 and
the 8.875 percent notes due in 2023 -- both recently traded at
the same price, 44.13 cents on the dollar, up 1 percent from
their low of 43.75 cents on the dollar on March 18, according to
Trace, the bond price reporting system of the Financial
Regulatory Authority.  Units of the GUC Trust rose to $26.76 today in over-the-
counter trading, up 31 percent since the start of the year.  The main bankruptcy case is In re Motors Liquidation Co.,
09-50026, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The adversary case is Motors Liquidation Company
GUC Trust v. Appaloosa Investment Limited Partnership I, 12-
09802, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  