-- German Stocks Rise on China Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-09-27T16:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/german-stocks-rise-commerzbank-heidelbergcement-gain.html
German stocks  gained, after
yesterday slumping the most in seven weeks, on speculation  China 
will announce further stimulus measures and as Spain’s Cabinet
approved the country’s budget for 2013.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  climbed 1.3 percent.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  fell 2.1
percent after saying that some of its competitors risk going out
of business without financial aid from European governments.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  climbed 0.2 percent to 7,290.02 at
the close in Frankfurt, after earlier advancing as much as 0.7
percent. The equity benchmark has surged 14 percent this
quarter, erasing its 7.6 percent slide in the second quarter.
The gauge has  rallied 22 percent  from its low on June 5 as
European Central Bank policy makers agreed on an unlimited
asset-purchase program and the  Federal Reserve  announced a third
round of quantitative easing. The broader HDAX Index rose 0.3
percent today.  “The market is higher on speculations swirling that China
will announce a large stimulus package after China National Day
on Oct. 1,” said Stephane Ekolo, chief European strategist at
Market Securities in  London .  China’s equity benchmark, the Shanghai Composite, rallied
as much as 3.2 percent after the Shanghai Securities News
reported speculation that the China Securities Regulatory
Commission would announce 10 market-stimulating measures.  The People’s Bank of China may cut  interest rates  or the
reserve-requirement ratio for lenders, according to an academic
adviser to the central bank. Chen Yulu added that reverse
repurchase operations remained the key monetary tool for now.  Spanish Protests  Spain’s Cabinet approved the budget for 2013, which will
focus on cuts rather than tax increases, Deputy Prime Minister
Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said today.  Spain’s bond yields 
surged yesterday amid speculation that the country’s government
will delay asking the European Union for further aid.  The Cabinet also approved a package of reforms that Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos had promised to introduce during a
meeting of euro-area finance ministers this month.  Thousands of Spanish protesters demonstrated late yesterday
in  Madrid , calling on Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to reverse
austerity measures.  In the U.S., a report showed the world’s largest economy
grew in the second quarter less than previously forecast,
reflecting slower gains in  consumer spending  and farm
inventories.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.3 percent pace. The
revision, the third estimate for the quarter, compared with a
previous estimate of 1.7 percent and the Bloomberg survey’s
median forecast of 1.7 percent.  Competing Treatment  Bayer increased 1.3 percent to 68.40 euros, contributing
the most to an advance by a gauge of European chemical makers.
Pfizer Inc. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. may have to wait until
March to discover whether U.S. regulators will allow them to
sell a competing treatment to Bayer’s Xarelto pill. The two
U.S.-based companies said that the  Food and Drug Administration 
has set a date of March 17 to issue its decision.  Volkswagen’s preferred shares lost 2.1 percent to 143.30
euros. The world’s second-biggest automobile manufacturer said
that European car sales will fail to recover next year, while
pressure mounts to lower prices of vehicles.  Solarworld AG (SWV)  soared 9.4 percent to 1.63 euros. Germany’s
biggest maker of solar panels rose following a report that Sharp
Corp. plans to reduce its production of solar equipment in the
U.S. and Europe.  SMA Solar Technology AG (S92)  surged 10 percent to
28.65 euros, its largest gain in two months.  Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK)  advanced 1.4 percent to 15.27 euros as
the German hospital operator said Chief Executive Officer
Wolfgang Pfoehler and Chief Financial Officer Erik Hamann will
leave following a failed takeover bid by Fresenius SE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  