-- Glaxo, Cipla Seen as Biggest Losers as India Sets Prices
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2012-09-27T19:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/glaxo-cipla-seen-as-biggest-losers-as-india-sets-prices.html
  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Cipla Ltd. (CIPLA) 
may have the most to lose from a new policy in  India  that would
limit the retail prices of drugs that generate 23 percent of the
pharmaceutical industry’s revenue.  Price caps will be widened to include 348 drugs such as
antibiotics, anti-hypertensives and cancer medicines, Srikant Jena, junior minister for chemicals and fertilizers, said
yesterday in  New Delhi .  India’s pharmaceutical market is mostly composed of so-
called branded generics, where often dozens of companies are
selling the same drug under different brand names. There is a
wide variation among the prices of these brands, and Indian
units of multinational drug companies Glaxo and  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT)  may be the biggest losers of the new policy because
their products are often priced at the top end of the range,
said Bino Pathiparampil, an analyst at IIFL Ltd.  “The biggest impact will be for the multinationals because
their products are often the most expensive,” Pathiparampil
said by telephone from Mumbai. “Indian players have a wide
variety of other generic products which are outside price
control, so they’ll be less affected.”  Under the new policy, every drug in the  National List of
Essential Medicines  will be capped at the weighted average price
of all brands with a market share exceeding 1 percent, Jena
said. That’s different from the  existing  system, which covers 74
drugs and sets a cap based on the product’s manufacturing costs.  Antibiotics, Multivitamins  The list, formulated by the health ministry, includes 64
antibiotics, 27 cardiovascular treatments, and 24 hormonal
drugs, in addition to multivitamins and pain relievers.  The Indian  unit  of London-based Glaxo gets about 31 percent
of its sales from drugs included in the list, making it the
publicly traded company with the largest exposure, Barclays Plc
said in a Sept. 24 report. Among Indian drugmakers, Mumbai-based
Cipla would face the biggest loss in revenue, with 28 percent of
sales coming under price control, analysts Balaji Prasad and
Rohit Goel wrote.  “We are still analyzing the policy internally and cannot
comment on the impact on sales,” Cipla Executive Director S. Radhakrishnan said in a phone interview. Glaxo spokeswoman
Rupali Kalav didn’t reply to an e-mail and a phone call after
office hours.  India has 92,000 brand names of registered pharmaceuticals,
according to a compendium of medicines sold in the country. The
 World Health Organization , in contrast, recommends 340 essential
drugs.  90 Percent  About 90 percent of prescriptions are generics, which their
manufacturers seek to differentiate with unique names. Glaxo’s
 Augmentin , a combination drug containing two antibiotics, is
sold by  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  as Moxclav, by Cipla as Advent
and by Mankind Pharma Ltd. as Moxikind-CV.  Prices of the brands can differ by as much as 75 percent
for six tablets, according to the drug encyclopedia  CIMS .  When prescribing medication, Indian doctors typically refer
to brands rather than chemical names. Pharmacists are prohibited
from substituting one generic for another, even if it’s cheaper,
so drugmakers try to persuade doctors to think of their brands
first.  “The new proposal will have an impact on industry as the
span of price controls will now increase to cover around 30
percent of the pharmaceutical market,” Ranjit Shahani, managing
director of Basel, Switzerland-based  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Indian unit
and the president of a pharmaceutical  lobby group , said in an e-
mailed statement.  All the major pharmaceutical companies in the country
derive from 30 to 40 percent of their sales from exports and
that would shield them from this policy change, IIFL’s
Pathiparampil said.  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) , the country’s biggest
drugmaker by market value, got 37 percent of sales from India
last fiscal year.  Lupin Ltd. (LPC) , the world’s biggest maker of
tuberculosis drugs, got 27 percent from its home country.  The company is still “awaiting more clarity” from the
government on the new policy recommendations, Mumbai-based Lupin
said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  