-- Glaxo Case Pushes U.S. Health Settlements to $6.6 Billion
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-09-27T18:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/glaxo-case-pushes-u-s-health-settlements-to-6-6-billion.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ,  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  and other drugmakers have paid $6.6 billion this year to
settle claims of defrauding U.S. health programs, more than
double the amount of 2011, advocacy group Public Citizen said.  Fines and penalties rose from $2.5 billion in 2011, aided
by a record $3 billion settlement by Glaxo in July, Washington-
based Public Citizen said in a report today. Common frauds
include overcharging government programs such as Medicare and
pushing doctors to prescribe drugs for unapproved uses.  Health-fraud settlements have risen since President  Barack
Obama  took office, with federal and state governments resolving
143 cases since the start of 2009, about 50 percent more than
the previous 18 years, according to data in the report. Despite
the increased pursuit, the penalties represent a fraction of
drug companies’ profits and need to be raised, said Sammy
Almashat, a researcher at  Public Citizen  who wrote the report.  “Investors have come to expect” companies to build
potential fines into their businesses, Almashat said in a
telephone interview. “The consensus seems to be that this is a
business model, and unless the federal government moves first to
increase these penalties, that’s likely to remain the case.”  Glaxo,  the U.K.’s largest drugmaker , has paid more than
$7.5 billion in 20 settlements since 1991, about a quarter of
$30 billion of penalties against the industry in that time,
Public Citizen said. Glaxo agreed in July to pay $3 billion to
settle claims that it marketed the depression medicines Paxil
and Wellbutrin for uses not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration and that it failed to report clinical data on the
diabetes drug Avandia.  Glaxo Response  “The settlements Glaxo has entered into with the U.S.
government and various states originated in a different era for
the company,” a U.S. spokeswoman for London-based Glaxo, Kevin Colgan, said in an e-mail. “We have taken action at all levels
in the company to ingrain a culture that aligns with our values
and puts patients first, acts transparently, respects people
inside and outside the organization and displays integrity in
everything we do. We have also fundamentally improved our
procedures for compliance, marketing and selling.”  Colgan also said the $7.5 billion figure from Public
Citizen includes a $3.4 billion tax dispute settlement not
related to Medicaid or Medicare that shouldn’t have been
factored into the report’s totals.  Glaxo reported about $8.4 billion (5.2 billion pounds) in
net income for 2011, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest drugmaker, has paid about $3
billion in 15 settlements since 1991, while Johnson & Johnson
has handed over $2.3 billion in 14 cases, Public Citizen said.  Business Practices  “This report looks backwards and ignores the significant
steps Pfizer has taken to strengthen our internal controls and
pioneer new procedures in the area of compliance,” Chris Loder,
a spokesman for New York-based Pfizer, said in an e-mail.
“Corporate integrity is an absolute priority.”  He said the company has “invested substantial resources”
in compliance, training and monitoring efforts, and strictly
follows all federal and state health care laws. Loder cited data
in the report showing that since 2010, Pfizer has paid $20
million in settlements.  A Johnson & Johnson spokesman,  Bill Price , said in an e-
mail that the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based company “remains
committed to ethical business practices, the care of patients,
and strong compliance programs that ensure our products are
promoted only for their approved indications.”  “We continue to work with the FDA and other entities to
ensure greater clarity around the pharmaceutical industry sales
and marketing practices that have led to these types of
litigation,” Price said.  Whistle-Blowers  Since the beginning of 2009, the federal government has
announced 49 settlements totaling $14.5 billion, according to
the report. States resolved 94 cases in the same period, for
$3.7 billion, Public Citizen said. In the previous 18 years, the
federal government settled 55 cases and states 41.  About 75 percent of federal cases since 2010 have been
initiated by whistle-blowers, such as company officials and
pharmacies, the report shows.  Almashat’s group said the government should prosecute
executives of drug companies to discourage fraud, and it backed
legislation that Senator  Bernie Sanders , a Vermont independent,
offered in May to strip patent protections from drugs involved
in fraud against the government. Sanders’s amendment was
defeated on a vote of 9-88.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  