-- Google Says Anti-Muslim Video Will Stay Up as It’s Within Rules
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-09-27T05:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/google-says-anti-muslim-video-will-stay-up-as-it-s-within-rules.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chairman  Eric Schmidt 
reiterated that a video uploaded to YouTube depicting the
Prophet Muhammad in ways that offended some Muslims won’t be
removed after the company blocked viewing of the clip in
countries including India, Indonesia,  Pakistan  and Singapore.  “We believe the answer to bad speech is more speech,”
Schmidt told reporters in Seoul today. “That video had been on
YouTube for some time and clearly meets the criteria that we
have set. It’ll stay up.”  Google’s free YouTube Internet video service said on Sept.
14 that it’s restricting access to the film in selected
countries to abide by local laws after the 14-minute clip
sparked protests, some deadly, from Egypt to Libya, Pakistan and
Afghanistan. The video depicts the  Prophet Muhammad  as a
womanizer and shows a fictional attack by Muslims on a Christian
family.  Separately, Google said on Sept. 25 it will appeal an
arrest order against the head of its operations in Brazil for
failing to remove YouTube videos that attacked a candidate in
the country’s upcoming municipal elections. The judge also
ordered a 24-hour suspension of Google and its video-sharing
website throughout the state.  “Google is not, and should not become, the arbiter of what
does and does not appear on the web,” the company writes on its
official blog, in an item headlined “ Free expression and
controversial content on the web .” “That’s for the courts and
those elected to government to decide,” Google said in the blog
item.  “We negotiate these things very carefully” with
authorities, Schmidt said, declining to comment further.
“Sometimes they disagree.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  