-- Greece’s Coalition Leaders Agree on Bulk of Budget Package
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2012-09-27T14:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/greece-s-coalition-leaders-agree-on-bulk-of-budget-package-1-.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras clinched agreement with the leaders of the political
parties backing his coalition government on the bulk of a two-
year 13.5 billion-euro ($17.4 billion) budget package that’s key
to receiving international aid.  The accord marked a first step forward for Samaras after
weeks of haggling with coalition partners and international
lenders, and it came with conditions. Fotis Kouvelis, head of
the Democratic Left party, and  Evangelos Venizelos  of Pasok told
reporters the measures needed to be accompanied by firm
commitments from euro-region leaders on growth and additional
time before they could support the spending cuts in parliament.  “There is a basic agreement,” Finance Minister Yannis
Stournaras told reporters after the meeting between the three
political leaders in Athens. It “gives me a basis for a
stronger negotiation.”  Stournaras has struggled to reach a compromise between
party leaders and the so-called troika of officials from the
European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  over how to close the country’s
financing gap and free up payments from the 240 billion euros
pledged under two rescue packages. Kouvelis and Venizelos have
balked at supporting more pension cuts and job layoffs in the
fifth year of Greece’s recession, with nearly a quarter of the
workforce unemployed.  General Strike  A general strike yesterday drew as many as 35,000 Greeks
into downtown  Athens  for protests that led to violence, with 21
arrests and 8 police officers injured.  “Our European partners undoubtedly are aiding us, but not
as much as they could,” Venizelos said in comments broadcast on
state-run NET TV. “I don’t think they understood the message of
the Greek elections, what’s happening in Greek society, the
political situation, what’s happening with social cohesion and
democracy in Greece. They must acknowledge the achievements of
the Greek people.”  Kouvelis said the package should be submitted to parliament
with growth plans and a tax overhaul included. It also needs to
include clauses to allow alternative budget measures should the
economy recover at a faster pace, he said.  An additional two years will be requested from the European
Union and IMF to spread reforms and austerity measures to 2016,
Kouvelis said. The demand underpinned the formation of Samaras’s
coalition in June after two inconclusive elections revived
speculation the country would abandon the euro.  Bank Recapitalization  With Samaras’s New Democracy party holding 128 of the Greek
Parliament’s 300 seats, Samaras relies on Pasok’s 33 seats and
Democratic Left’s 17 to secure approval of any pledge made to
international lenders.  Agreement with the troika is imperative to allow the
release of 31 billion euros under  Greece ’s financing plan. That
payment is designed primarily to recapitalize the nation’s banks
in a bid to boost liquidity in a cash-starved economy.  Any request for more time may require more funding and will
need the approval of the EU and IMF. Stournaras will meet with
the troika again on Oct. 1. Finance Ministry officials will
brief their euro-area counterparts today on the outlines of the
plan. Troika officials will also attend, said an official in
Athens who asked not to be identified.  Asset Sales  The IMF has indicated that any additional financing for
Greece will have to come from  Europe , where officials have told
Samaras no discussion can be held on debt relief or extending
the time to implement measures until he honors pledges made for
the country’s second rescue package.  International lenders held back funds in the wake of the
election impasse, which derailed reforms, halted state-asset
sales and stoked concerns about Greece’s euro status.  Venizelos said the euro area needed to be aware of the
difficulties facing the Greek political system and ordinary
Greeks. A full agreement is needed to be brought to the Greek
Parliament that will tackle the issue of debt sustainability
“in a way that won’t bring us into conflict with other
countries and with taxpayers of other countries,” he said.  Alternate Finance Minister Christos Staikouras suggested
earlier this week that the ECB and other national central banks
in the euro area, who hold 28 billion euros of Greek  government
bonds  maturing by the end of 2016, could roll those bonds over
given the country’s financing constraints.  Greece faces a financing gap that won’t be closed by budget
measures because the recession and delayed privatizations have
further weakened its fiscal situation, International Monetary
Fund chief  Christine Lagarde  said on Sept. 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net 
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  