-- Greenspan’s Lightweight Economy Squeezes Cargo Airlines
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-09-27T20:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/greenspan-s-lightweight-economy-squeezes-cargo-airlines.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and competing cargo
airlines are finding their yields squeezed in an economy that
 Alan Greenspan  once observed is putting good things in ever-
smaller packages.  Both FedEx and United Parcel Service Inc. have posted drops
in revenue per package this year. With clients used to paying by
weight, softer demand from a weakening global economy has
hampered the carriers’ ability to change the way they set rates.  “If weight per shipment was going up, that was always a
good sign,” said  Kevin Sterling , a BB&T Capital Markets analyst
in Richmond,  Virginia , who has a buy rating on both companies.
“That is no longer a valid key statistic to look at to
determine if the freight economy is improving. Everything seems
to have gotten lighter.”  FedEx and  UPS (UPS)  are grappling simultaneously with sales
growth that has slowed from more than 10 percent in mid-2010 to
less than 5 percent in the most recent quarter, and they have
trimmed full-year profit forecasts. Shares in both companies
have underperformed the broader Standard & Poor’s 500 Index this
year, with UPS falling 1.6 percent and FedEx rising 2.7 percent.  The pressure on their performance from smaller manufactured
goods, which affect all cargo companies, can be seen on a
broader scale in the tonnage of U.S. gross domestic product.  The measure has been stagnant for decades, which implies a
continually dropping weight per dollar, Greenspan, the former
Federal Reserve chairman, said in a telephone interview this
week.  Moore’s Law  “The development of the integrated circuit has had a
dramatic effect on making the world into ever smaller units,”
Greenspan said. He cited  Moore’s Law , the principle associated
with  Intel Corp. (INTC)  co-founder Gordon Moore that the number of
transistors on an integrated circuit doubles every two years.  Products such as televisions built by  Emerson Radio Corp. (MSN) 
illustrate the magnitude of miniaturization in the 13 years
since Greenspan discussed it in a 1999 speech in  Dallas .  A 22-inch cathode ray-tube set from 2002 weighs about 75
pounds and is almost 2 feet thick, while an Emerson LED model
with the same screen size, available today, weighs just 7.5
pounds and is only 2 inches thick.  Freight intensity , measured as the ratio of total ton-miles
to GDP, shows that freight activity required to produce goods
and services in the U.S. dropped from 0.59 ton-mile per dollar
in 1970 to 0.38 ton-mile in 2002, according to the federal
 Bureau of Transportation Statistics .  ‘Big Winners’  Shippers and consumers are the “big winners” of the
trend, said Aaron Gellman, a professor of management and
strategy at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of
Management. Though cargo companies are likely to respond with
changes to the way they calculate rates, those may be years
away, he said.  At present, both companies base rates on volume, distance
and service level, according to spokesmen.  The timing isn’t right for major changes to pricing
systems, Satish Jindel, president of SJ Consulting Group in
Sewickley,  Pennsylvania , said in a telephone interview. “As the
carriers modify their dimension of charge, more customers are
going to say, ‘How much of my transportation involves air?
Nobody’s buying, so why am I shipping air?’”  The Drewry Air Freight  Price Index  fell 13 percent in
August from July, the largest drop in 20 months, and was 17
percent lower than a year earlier. The average rate was $3.32 a
kilogram, the fourth consecutive month below $4. Since the start
of 2011, the average rose as high as $4.61, in October.  Lower Revenue  At FedEx’s Express unit, the Memphis, Tennessee-based
company’s largest, revenue per package pound has dropped on from
a year earlier for the past six quarters.  Sales  of $2.20 a pound
in the three months through August compared with $2.66 in the
same period in 2010.  UPS’s revenue per package from next-day air delivery in the
U.S. declined from the previous year in the first two quarters
of 2012, with a drop of about 2 percent to $20.42 in the period
through June.  Chief Financial Officer Kurt Kuehn noted a “meaningful
decrease” in weight per shipment in the 2011 holiday season.
The company’s lightweight products, tailored to take advantage
of the change, benefited from smaller goods such as tablet and
portable computers, he said.  FedEx spotlighted the strains on its business this month
when it cut its profit forecast, sending the shares to their
biggest drop since June 1.  Fundamental Change  Shipping has faced a fundamental change in the past few
months, with exports and trade declining faster than global
gross domestic product, FedEx Chief Executive Officer  Fred Smith 
said on an earnings call at the time. The reverse was true for
the past 25 years, excepting meltdowns in 2000-2001 and 2008-
2009, he said.  Quarterly volumes fell for FedEx’s premium delivery
services in the U.S. and overseas as slowing growth in  China ,
the  European debt crisis  and  unemployment  above 8 percent in the
U.S. prompted manufacturers to switch to less-expensive shipping
methods that generate less income.  “Trade down” has also been an issue in recent years for
Atlanta-based UPS as customers have tightened budgets, said Mike
Mangeot, a spokesman for the company’s airlines service.  UPS cut its full-year  forecast  to $4.50 to $4.70 a share
from $4.75 to $5 a share in July after second-quarter profit
trailed analysts’ estimates. FedEx lowered its full-year
earnings projection to $6.20 to $6.60 a share from $6.90 to
$7.40 a share in September.  Technology isn’t the only driver in shrinking sizes. Some
of U.S. output’s weight loss is due to environmental
conservation efforts such as cutting carbon footprints.  New Highs  Apple Inc. touts smaller iPhone containers on its  website ,
saying “efficient packaging design not only reduces materials
and waste, it also helps reduce the emissions produced during
transportation.”  The iPhone’s package volume was cut 42 percent from 2007 to
2011, letting the company ship 80 percent more boxes in each
airline shipping container and saving one flight on a  Boeing Co. (BA) 
747 jumbo freighter for every 371,250 units it ships, Apple
said.  Along with drawbacks, cargo airlines also stand to garner
benefits from rapid technological change as consumers seek to
replace goods that are quickly outdated.  “Short product cycles and obsolescence cost drives the
actual turnaround of products, which again increases the actual
shipping volumes,” Rob Siegers, president of the global
technology sector at DHL’s Customer Solutions, said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  ‘How Small?’  The demand for the latest high-tech products like Apple’s
iPhone 5 illustrates that, said Donald Broughton, an Avondale
Partners LLC analyst based in  St. Louis .  “Airfreight will go on to establish all new highs, because
that’s technology,” he said. “We want it immediately from
wherever we want it.”  Cargo companies can further improve their situations by
cutting capacity and improving enhancements such as real-time
tracking services, which will help them regain pricing power,
analysts said. The arc toward tinier sizes has its limits, they
said.  “How small is a cellphone going to get?” Kellogg’s
Gellman asked.  Already, demand for smaller cellphones has been mitigated
as some customers press for screens large enough to meet
individual usage needs, DHL’s Siegers said.  “In the past, mobile phones had to be as small as
possible,” he said. “Today there are different smartphones
with different screen sizes on the market.”  Another boost for cargo companies is in the higher price
tag carried by smaller electronic items, said Raj Subramaniam,
FedEx’s senior vice president of global marketing.  “Electronic products have been getting smaller for
years,” he said. “When that happens, the value per pound goes
up. When that happens, it’s more likely to go on an express
transportation mode than otherwise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  