-- Michelin Site Lists U.K. Winners Before Guide Appears
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-09-27T16:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/michelin-website-lists-u-k-star-winners-before-guide-appears.html
Michelin’s new star ratings for
U.K. restaurants, scheduled to be published on Oct. 4, appeared
on the company’s website today, a week early.  Sketch (The Lecture Room) won a second star, as did Simon Rogan’s L’Enclume, in Cartmel; and  Michael Wignall at the
Latymer , in Bagshot, Michelin confirmed in an e-mail release.  New one-star winners included Heston Blumenthal’s Hinds
Head pub, in Bray. In London, there were single stars for Alyn
Williams at the Westbury, Dabbous, Medlar, Hedone, Launceston
Place, St. John Chinatown,  Tom Aikens  and Trishna.  The U.K’s four three-star restaurants -- Fat Duck,
Waterside Inn,  Alain Ducasse  and  Gordon Ramsay  -- held onto
their top rating.  This isn’t the first time the results have appeared
prematurely. In 2009, Pied a Terre owner  David Moore  spotted
them on the web. In 2010, a copy of the guide was sent out
before publication.  Other winners of a single star include Bath Priory (Bath),
Alimentum (Cambridge) Raby Hunt (Darlington), Red Lion Freehouse
(East Chisenbury), Tristan (Horsham), Paul Ainsworth at No. 6
(Padstow), Thackeray’s (Tunbridge Wells), Locks Brasserie
(Dublin) and Aniar (Galway).  In London, Zafferano and Gauthier-Soho lost stars.
Establishments that won new Bib Gourmand awards for value-for-
money included Zedel and Soif.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on New York dining,
 Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology and  Scott Reyburn  on art
auctions.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 