-- Micron Posts Wider Fourth-Quarter Loss on Memory-Chip Slump
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-09-27T23:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/micron-posts-fourth-quarter-loss-on-declining-memory-chip-prices.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , the largest
U.S. maker of memory chips, reported a wider fourth-quarter loss
and lower revenue as lackluster demand for personal computers
reduced sales of components.  The net loss for the period that ended Aug. 30 was $243
million, or 24 cents a share, compared with a loss of $135
million, or 14 cents, a year earlier, the Boise, Idaho-based
company said today in a  filing . Revenue fell 8.3 percent to
$1.96 billion. Analysts on average  estimated  a loss of 23 cents
on sales of $2.11 billion, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shrinking demand for PCs sent sales of dynamic random
access memory, or DRAM, down 9 percent in the quarter, Micron
said. Weak demand for parts is a bad sign, especially in the
period before the holiday season and ahead of an updated version
of Microsoft Corp.’s Windows, which traditionally has stoked
shipments, said Alex Gauna, an analyst at JMP Securities LLC.  “It’s concerning, not just for Micron, but for anyone
that’s touching it,” Gauna said. “What’s really concerning is
the lack of uptick around Windows 8.”  Micron also makes so-called Nand  flash memory , chips used
to store data in smartphones, which declined in price by an
average of 5 percent, the company said.  Micron shares slipped to $5.95 after the report. They had
 risen  1.3 percent to $6.02 at the close in  New York . The stock
has lost 4.4 percent this year.  Elpida Purchase  In July, Micron agreed to acquire bankrupt Elpida Memory
Inc. for 200 billion yen ($2.57 billion). The transaction is
aimed at grabbing control of more supply and making it better
able to take on industry leader Samsung Electronics Co. as well
as South Korea’s SK Hynix Inc. Elpida, the last Japanese maker
of computer-memory chips, sought  bankruptcy protection  in
February after losses left it unable to pay debts.  The slowing of expansion plans by the memory-chip industry
and elimination of another competitor when Micron completes the
takeover of Elpida will improve prices next year as demand and
supply are better aligned,  Doug Freedman , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets , wrote in a research note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  