-- Mideast Peace Mired as Abbas Trades Taunts With Netanyahu
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-09-27T23:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/mideast-peace-mired-as-abbas-trades-taunts-with-netanyahu.html
Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas 
and Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  exchanged taunts
at the United Nations as the world body watched a peace process
that has all but slipped away.  A year after bidding unsuccessfully at the UN for
Palestinian statehood, Abbas took to the podium of the General
Assembly yesterday to accuse  Israel  of a “campaign of ethnic
cleansing” against the Palestinian people in the West Bank. The
Israeli leader responded less than an hour later that
“libelous speeches” aren’t the way to reach a peaceful
resolution to the long-standing conflict.  Their performances underlined the paralysis in the peace
process and the growing indifference of international policy
makers now preoccupied with the war in  Syria  and  Iran’s nuclear
program .  “Abbas and Netanyahu spoke past one another, barely
touching on the same issues,” said  Robert Danin , a senior
fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in  Washington . “With
Abbas focused on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and
Netanyahu’s concentration on  Iran , both have in effect thrown
the ball back into the United States’ court.”  For President  Barack Obama , the immediate focus is on
winning re-election in November. Three years ago, in his first
UN address, he met with both leaders and vowed to “not waiver
in my pursuit of peace.” This year, in his Sept. 25 address to
the UN, the American leader offered no fresh ideas to break the
deadlock.  His first and only attempt to bring Abbas and Netanyahu
back to the negotiating table collapsed in 2010 over the issue
of limiting the construction of Jewish settlements in the West
Bank.  Dying Process  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and senior U.S.
diplomats met with Abbas and the Palestinian delegation
yesterday. In a reflection of how little progress has been made
in advancing the peace process, conversation during the 30-
minute meeting touched on several topics that had little direct
impact on Palestinians.  Instead, Clinton and Abbas discussed Syria’s civil war,
instability in Lebanon, Iran and the political transition in
 Egypt , according to an official present at the talks who wasn’t
authorized to be identified discussing the private session.  In the absence of American leadership to guide peace talks,
Abbas and Netanyahu were vague about what their next steps would
be.  After his failed bid last year for UN membership on par
with Israel, Abbas has downgraded his expectations and is now
seeking a limited upgrade from observer “entity” to “non-
member state” in the 193-member General Assembly.  UN Upgrade  “We have begun intensive consultations with various
regional organizations and member states aimed at having the
General Assembly adopt a resolution considering the State of
 Palestine  as a non-member state of the  United Nations  during
this session,” Abbas said in the UN hall.  The gap between the two sides was filled by a
“blistering” display of words, Danin said. Speaking first,
Abbas said Israel was “promising the Palestinian people a new
catastrophe, a new Nakba.” That is a word Palestinians use to
refer to Israel’s independence in 1948, when many Palestinians
fled or were forced to leave their homes in what is now the
Jewish state.  “Developments over the past year have confirmed what we
have persistently drawn attention to and warned of: the
catastrophic danger of the racist Israeli settlement of our
country,” Abbas said in a speech that elicited less applause
than last year.  When Netanyahu walked up to the podium, he responded, “we
won’t solve our conflict with libelous speeches at the UN. We
won’t solve our conflict with unilateral declarations of
statehood.”  Iran Focus  Moving quickly past the Palestinian issue, Netanyahu
reserved his strongest language for Iran in an effort to
convince a broader audience that military action may be required
to stop that country’s nuclear program from advancing.  He attacked radical Islamists for “wanting to draw
humanity back to an age of unquestioning dogma, unrelenting
conflict.” He spoke of a clash between “modernity and barbaric
medievalism.”  For Abbas, attacking Israel may serve to distract attention
from his troubles at home.  Deteriorating economic conditions in the  West Bank  have
fueled social-welfare protests. In the  Gaza Strip , the
Palestinians say the situation is becoming untenable.  Abbas expressed “anger” at the state of affairs and said
the chances for a two-state solution were disappearing. He is
not alone in thinking so. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon this
week also said “the door may be closing” on that option.  Divergent Objectives  “While the two leaders delivered passionate remarks within
minutes of one another, they spoke to divergent future
objectives,” Danin said in an e-mail.  Abbas is seeking statehood and the target audience was the
UN member countries, he said, while Netanyahu’s focus was Iran
and his audience was one country in particular: the U.S.  The  peace process  isn’t dead “but it is in a deep freeze,
at least until after the next American election, and maybe for
quite a while after that,” said Hussein Ibish, senior fellow
with the American Task Force on Palestine, a group based in
Washington that advocates a peaceful two-state solution.
“Ultimately, though, the Israelis and the Palestinians have few
options other than to find a modus vivendi based on two states,
and the only way to get there, in the end, is to make an
agreement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in  New York  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  