-- Ignore the Georgian Elections at Your Own Risk
-- B y   L a w r e n c e   S h e e t s
-- 2012-09-27T22:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/ignore-the-georgian-elections-at-your-own-risk.html
What with the Arab Spring, Israeli
threats to attack  Iran , and the bloodshed in Syria, Afghanistan
and  Iraq , the world has largely forgotten the troubled Caucasus
region.  But European and Western leaders would do well to take
another look at what is happening there, four years after
Georgia’s 2008 war with Russia proved the dangers still posed by
unresolved military conflicts from the collapse of the  Soviet
Union .  On Oct. 1, Georgians will vote in the least-predictable
election that the country has had since it gained independence
more than 20 years ago. A quick look at a map or globe shows
that Georgia and the pipelines it hosts to transport oil and
natural gas to Western markets are all too close to the hot
spots that so preoccupy the world’s leaders today.  The parliamentary campaign between the ruling United
National Movement party, headed by President Mikheil Saakashvili, and the  Georgian Dream  opposition coalition that is
headed by  Georgia ’s richest man, Bidzina Ivanishvili, has been
divisive, malicious and, at times, ridiculous.  Saakashvili’s second and final presidential term ends in
late 2013, and he says he isn’t seeking the prime minister’s
post. But he remains the hyperactive face of the ruling party.  Frenetic Drama  Given the acrimony between the two sides, and a history of
less-than-perfect Georgian elections, there are genuine concerns
that the losing party will refuse to concede defeat. In the
current atmosphere of frenetic drama, this might set off
confrontations that turn violent, or provide an opportunity for
trouble makers to destabilize the country.  Foreign governments need to clearly convey the message that
any party stoking violence or resorting to fraud will face
international condemnation and isolation. More than 400 poll
 observers  from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
 Europe  should provide assurance. Election-day complaints should
be addressed via peaceful means. Georgia’s courts could play a
useful role, but they haven’t effectively reviewed evidence of
ballot fraud in the past; ideally, international observers
should monitor that process, too, and offenders should be
prosecuted, so that grievances don’t spill into the street.  The elections will choose the country’s 150-seat
 parliament , and under a new constitution the bulk of the
president’s current powers will be taken over by the new prime
minister, the position that Ivanishvili claims he will fill
soon. While keeping a low public profile, the former recluse has
built up political capital over the years by bankrolling almost
$1 billion in philanthropic projects. Many of them were
relatively modest in scale but very wide in reach, such as
individual grants to members of Georgia’s struggling creative
class, cash to pay for medical operations for poor people, and
financing to put new roofs on every house in his home village.  Like Ivanishvili, most of the main opposition leaders were
once allies of Saakashvili. Shifting alliances comes naturally
to Georgians, who over most of the past 2,000 years have had to
adapt constantly to rule by various empires: Roman, Mongol,
Persian, Ottoman, and then Russian and Soviet. Since a five-day
war in August 2008, Russia now effectively controls two regions:
South Ossetia and Abkhazia, which have declared independence
from Georgia but have been recognized only by Russia and a
handful of other countries. Russia has established military
bases in both territories.  Saakashvili’s ruling party has accused Ivanishvili of being
a stooge of Russian President  Vladimir Putin . It says Russia has
“poured 2 billion” into the election, without elaborating on the
currency or what was bought. Ivanishvili scoffs at claims that
he is a “Kremlin project.” He vows to gradually repair ties
between Georgia and Moscow, while keeping his country on a
“Western” orientation. Those promoting the “Russian agent”
allegations usually connect them to Ivanishvili’s having made
his $6 billion fortune in Russia during the wild 1990s. He
returned to Georgia in 2004.  Russian Troops  Officials in Moscow have made no statement in favor of any
party, although Putin’s antipathy for Saakashvili is well-known,
at least partly because of the Georgian leader’s bid to join the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  Russia  seems keen to remind
Georgians of its proximity on the eve of the election. Last
week, European Union military monitors in Georgia said Russian
troops had been building up at the administrative border with
South Ossetia, and that a Russian helicopter briefly touched
down on Georgian-controlled territory. A major Russian military
exercise in the North Caucasus organized uncharacteristically
late in the summer also frayed nerves in the capital, Tbilisi.  Both the United National Movement and Georgian Dream have
portrayed the election through Armageddon-tinged glasses,
accusing the other of trying to rig the vote. Georgian Dream
says the ruling party will use “massive falsification” of the
ballot to win, and that it is abusing government resources in
the campaign. The United National Movement says the opposition
is engaged in tremendous “vote buying” and plans “mass
destabilization” after the election in order to seize power.  Both sides have made miscalculations. Several Georgian
Dream activists were recently given 20 to 40 day jail terms for
relatively trivial infractions, and others have made claims of
government harassment or pressure. This came after a major
scandal was  unleashed  last week when secretly taken videos of
torture in a Georgian jail became public. Some members of the
broad Georgian Dream coalition, for their part, use crude
nationalist rhetoric, repeating old claims that Saakashvili and
key members of the government are not Georgians, but Armenians.  Campaign Tone  So far, the OSCE monitoring mission has found that election
preparations are on schedule, and has noted no significant
problems that would undermine the democratic outcome. In a
report issued this week, however, the monitors  warned  that the
tone of the campaign was “confrontational and rough.”  Although intense campaigning is understandable, both sides
need to tone down their rhetoric and, once the elections are
over, look to how they can govern together. No party is likely
to win an overwhelming majority of the kind that the United
National Movement now enjoys in parliament. Previous foes will
have to sit together in the legislature to push ahead with
needed reforms, such as overhauling the judicial system.  A more diverse parliament would be good for Georgia. It
would create an opportunity for political debate to come in from
the streets. For this to happen, without jeopardizing the
legitimacy of the democratic process, no side should disturb the
establishment of the new chamber, either by last-minute fiddling
with election results, or by provoking violence.  (Lawrence Scott Sheets is the South Caucasus Project
director of the  International Crisis Group . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  dangers of China-bashing 
in U.S. politics and on the  Wheatley review of Libor ;  Jonathan
Alter  on  fixing campaign finance ; Stephen L. Carter on
 Washington’s outsize wealth ; William Pesek on bringing the
 Olympics to Japan ;  Jonathan Weil  on  giving banks public grades 
as cities do with restaurants;  Steven Greenhut  on  Chicago ’s
challenge to  California on unions .  To contact the writer of this article:
Lawrence Sheets at  lsheets@crisisgroup.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  