-- IMF U-Turn in Jordan Shows Egypt Need to Engage Public on Policy
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M o h a m m a d   T a y s e e r
-- 2012-09-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/imf-u-turn-in-jordan-shows-egypt-need-to-engage-public-on-policy.html
Mohammad al-Sheikh was among
hundreds of Jordanians who joined protests against an increase
in fuel prices, pushing King Abdullah II to scrap a policy aimed
at meeting pledges to the  International Monetary Fund .  “The government increased the prices in secret, like it
was afraid of something,” al-Sheikh, an air conditioning
salesman, said in an interview in Amman, explaining why he
joined a street protest for the first time in his life. “This
is provocative. We have the right to know.”  Al-Sheikh’s comment signals the new engagement among Arab
citizens after the protests that brought down governments last
year. A consequence is that the fiscal restraint backed by the
IMF and investors is harder to implement without the kind of
broad support that requires a public debate. That’s especially
resonant in Egypt, where talks with the IMF on a $4.8 billion
loan agreement have been on and off for more than a year.  Mohamed Mursi,  Egypt ’s first freely elected president,
already faces near-daily strikes by labor groups empowered by
last year’s uprising. After campaigning on the promise that he
had a detailed plan to end Egypt’s worst slump for a decade,
Mursi is coming under fire for stalling on the specifics of what
his government will commit to in return for IMF money.  “If I were the government I would start talking in a
language that the average man on the street would understand,”
said Mohamad Al-Ississ, assistant economics professor at the
American University in Cairo. “A quick solution is going to
bring down the government with it.”  Iran Example  Egypt is seeking the loan after spending more than half its
 currency reserves  in 2011, leading to concern it would be forced
to devalue the pound. The  budget deficit , at 11 percent of
output, is the highest for five years and, according to the IMF,
the region’s largest.  This year’s budget allows for 146 billion pounds ($24
billion) of subsidies for staples such as food and fuel, more
than a quarter of all spending. Prime Minister Hisham Qandil has 
drafted a plan to reduce the bill by 25.5 billion pounds, Al 
Masry Al Youm newspaper said Sept. 24, citing an unidentified 
official.  The government says it can open its economic program to
national discussion and still conclude an IMF deal this year.  That timetable compares with the two years  Iran  spent
holding public debates before it started eliminating as much as
$60 billion in subsidies, to ensure the cuts wouldn’t spark
unrest. The Islamic republic won rare  praise from the IMF  for
its “long and careful preparations to ensure the success of the
reform and its support by the public.”  ‘Still Time’  Qandil’s “young government” still has time to engage in
more detail over policy, said  Shadi Hamid , director of research
at the Brookings Doha Center. “The Muslim Brotherhood will use
all of its grassroots networks and parallel institutions to
mobilize behind a public diplomacy campaign,” he said. “I
think it can be effective.”  Expectations that Mursi, the Brotherhood’s candidate for
president, and Qandil can square public pressures with likely
IMF demands and reach a deal have helped bring Egypt’s borrowing
costs down from record highs. Yields on the dollar bonds
maturing in 2020 have dropped more than a percentage point in
the past three months.  Some investors warn that the optimism is overdone.  Egyptian bonds “offer poor compensation for the risks,”
Michael Cirami, who helps manage $12 billion at Boston-based
 Eaton Vance Corp. (EV) , said by e-mail. An IMF deal is becoming more
difficult because “as time passes the conditionality will
likely increase,” he said.  ‘Lacks Transparency’  Ministers have repeatedly told Egyptians that IMF money
will come without conditions, though they typically involve
policy targets that must be met before loans are disbursed.  Even some Mursi allies have criticized the delay in
detailing economic policy. Abdallah Shehata said on a debate
hosted by Cairo-based ONTV television that the government
“lacks transparency.” Shehata is head of the economic
committee of the Freedom and Justice Party, the Muslim
Brotherhood’s political arm headed by Mursi until his election
as president.  Mursi isn’t the first Egyptian leader to target reducing
energy subsidies. Mubarak repeatedly pledged to do so yet never
did, fearing unrest in in a country where one in five live in
poverty.  The IMF has backed subsidy reductions in Jordan, Iran and
other Middle Eastern countries.  ‘Like Adults’  “We recognize that this is a socially and politically
difficult thing to do,”  Masood Ahmed , head of the IMF  Middle
East  and Central Asia Department, said of Jordan’s efforts to
tighten the budget in a Sept. 18 interview. “They have to
manage it. It will require difficult decisions.”  In Egypt’s emerging democracy, the IMF says a loan program
would need a “critical mass” of support. The country’s new
leaders aren’t on the right track to obtain that, said Elijah
Zarwan, a Cairo-based senior fellow at the European Council on
Foreign Relations.  They are “not treating citizens like adults by explaining
the serious problems the country faces,” he said in a phone
interview. “It’s a shame that since the uprising the government
has continued the old style.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammad Tayseer in Amman at 
 mtayseer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  