-- India Retains Borrowing Aim as It Fights Widest BRIC Deficit
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y
-- 2012-09-28T12:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/india-keeps-borrowing-goal-as-it-tackles-widest-bric-deficit-1-.html
The Indian government left the
target for debt sales in the second half of the fiscal year
unchanged after stepping up efforts to pare its  budget deficit .  The  Finance Ministry  plans to raise 2 trillion rupees
($37.7 billion) in the six months ending March, Economic Affairs
Secretary Arvind Mayaram told reporters in New Delhi yesterday,
retaining the goal given earlier this year. Bond sales in April
through September will reach 3.7 trillion rupees following an
auction due today, according to central bank data.  India ’s  budget deficit  is the widest among major emerging
nations as slower growth hurts tax receipts and subsidies fan
spending, imperiling the government’s goal of narrowing the gap
to 5.1 percent of gross domestic product from 5.8 percent last
year. Officials boosted diesel prices on Sept. 14 to restrain
expenditure on compensation for below-cost sales.  “When growth is slowing, it will be very challenging to
meet the deficit target and the government will have to resort
to extra bond sales later,” said Ashutosh Datar, an economist
at IIFL Ltd., a Mumbai-based brokerage. Bond yields may come
under pressure if debt supply rises, he said.  The yield on the 8.15 percent bond due June 2022 declined
to 8.15 percent from 8.16 percent yesterday. The  BSE India
Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose 1 percent, while the rupee strengthened 0.3
percent to 52.86 per dollar.  Panel Comments  India’s deficit may widen to 6.1 percent of GDP this fiscal
year if no action is taken to tackle it, a panel set up by
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in a report dated
Sept. 3 and  released  today.  The panel, headed by Vijay Kelkar, recommended subsidy cuts
and faster sales of shares in state-owned companies, steps it
said would help limit the budget shortfall at 5.2 percent.  Sovereign-debt issuance will exceed the 5.69 trillion
rupees target for the year ending March 31 by 500 billion rupees,
according to the median of eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg
before yesterday’s release.  The fiscal gap in the five months through August was 65.7
percent of the annual goal of 5.14 trillion rupees, the
Controller General of Accounts said in a statement today.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  followed the 14 percent rise
in diesel tariffs, the first in over a year, with steps to open
the economy to more foreign investment, encourage capital
inflows and bolster the stock market.  Policy Overhaul  The burst of policy changes snapped months of inaction that
dimmed India’s outlook, weighed on the rupee and increased the
odds of a credit-rating downgrade.  The rupee has strengthened 2.7 percent against the dollar
since Singh began the overhaul on Sept. 14, paring its drop in
the past year to about 7.8 percent.  The prime minister is trying to trim a subsidy bill for
food, fuel and fertilizer by 12 percent to 1.9 trillion rupees
in the year through March 2013. The government also aims to
raise 300 billion rupees from share sales by state companies.  It set a budget-deficit target of 5.1 percent of GDP for
the year in the budget released in March. Citigroup Inc.
estimates the shortfall will be 5.9 percent and Crisil,  Standard
& Poor’s  local unit, forecasts 6.2 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  of India has signaled that narrowing the
budget gap is pivotal to increasing room for  interest-rate  cuts
to bolster economic expansion, which weakened to a nine-year low
of 6.5 percent in 2011-2012.  The Finance Ministry expects a budget deficit of about 5.3
percent of GDP this financial year, two officials with knowledge
of the matter said Sept. 21, asking not to be identified as the
projection isn’t public.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings reduced the outlook on
India’s credit rating to negative from stable earlier this year,
bringing the nation a step closer to junk status on weakness
such as fiscal and trade imbalances.  India’s current-account deficit narrowed last quarter from
a record, boosting the outlook for the rupee, another report
showed today. The shortfall in the broadest measure of trade was
$16.4 billion in the three months ended June 30, compared with a
$21.7 billion gap from January through March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  