-- Andhra Pradesh’s First Solar Policy Cuts Taxes, Waives Fees
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-09-27T09:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/india-s-andhra-pradesh-state-issues-first-solar-power-policy.html
India’s  Andhra Pradesh  state
introduced its first solar-energy policy, offering tax benefits
to projects and exemptions from power-transmission fees as the
local government seeks investment to curb electricity shortages.  Plants built by June 2014 will be able to claim the
incentives for seven years, according to an order issued
yesterday by the state energy department.  “If executed appropriately, this policy would enable
Andhra Pradesh to get a huge influx of investment from solar
developers,” said Vishal Pandya, director at  REConnect Energy
Solutions Pvt. , which advises companies in the industry.  The southern state, which says it gets some of India’s
highest sun irradiation, is promoting solar energy to boost
generation capacity after suffering a  17.3 percent  power deficit
in July. It’s working with other states toward a national goal
of becoming one of the world’s fastest-growing solar markets,
with a targeted 20,000 megawatts across  India  by 2022.  Andhra Pradesh didn’t set a specific goal for solar
installations or announce higher tariffs, unlike the central
government and Gujarat and Karnataka states, which have awarded
above-market rates to developers for a limited amount of
capacity.  To attract investment, Andhra Pradesh will waive
transmission fees for using state-owned infrastructure. It also
won’t charge a so-called cross-subsidy fee, which is levied to
compensate state-owned distributors for losses they incur on
supplying power below cost to households and farmers.  Solar projects will get refunds on value-added tax paid for
equipment and on land duty and registration charges for sites.
In addition, the state plans to speed up the approvals process,
issuing permits to build grid connections within 21 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  