-- Indonesia’s Robust Demand to Lift Inflation Rate, OECD Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-27T07:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/indonesia-s-robust-demand-to-lift-inflation-rate-oecd-says.html
Indonesia should be ready to
tighten  monetary policy  as faster growth boosts inflation and
reduce energy subsidies to focus on infrastructure needs, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said.  Gross domestic product will increase 6.2 percent in 2013
from 6 percent this year, led by “robust domestic demand,” the
Paris-based organization said in a report today, revising its
forecasts higher from May estimates. Annual inflation will
accelerate to 4.7 percent from 4.2 percent, it said.  “Monetary policy should, as planned, ensure that inflation
will remain on a downward trend, using  interest rates , liquidity
management and macro-prudential measures,” the OECD said.
“Indonesia’s infrastructure and social spending needs are
substantial and will need to be efficiently financed.”  Stronger institutions and better policy will help  Indonesia 
achieve its government’s goal of elevating the nation to one of
the world’s 10 largest economies by 2025, the OECD said.
Indonesia may surpass  Germany  and the U.K. by 2030 to be the
world’s seventh-largest economy, generating $1.8 trillion in
annual sales for agriculture, consumer and energy companies by
that year, McKinsey & Co. said this month.  Energy Subsidies  The OECD urged a substantial reduction in Indonesia’s
energy subsidies that fail to achieve social goals and have
significant costs. It said cash transfers will be necessary to
prevent an increase in poverty from such a move.  Energy subsidies are forecast to account for almost 19
percent of  government spending  in 2012 and 24.1 percent in the
2013 draft budget, while spending on social assistance and
infrastructure remains insufficient, the report showed.  “Rethinking the spending mix is required to achieve the
authorities’ ambitious development objectives, fund the 2014
establishment of public health insurance and at the same time
eliminate the  budget deficit  by 2015 as envisaged in official
medium-term economic projections,” the OECD said.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  is increasing spending
on roads, seaports and airports as he woos investment to spur
 Southeast Asia ’s largest economy. More than a decade after the
Asian financial crisis forced the nation to seek an
International Monetary Fund bailout,  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s
Investors Service have raised Indonesia to investment grade, and
growth is among the fastest in the Group of 20 nations.  ‘Strong’ Demand  “Strong domestic demand is likely to push up inflation in
2013,” the OECD said. “In addition, labor markets are tight,
and expected rises in the minimum wage could encourage
significant wage demands.”  Indonesia may add 90 million people to its “consuming
class” by 2030, the most after China and  India , McKinsey said
in a Sept. 18 report. Energy demand may triple from current
levels,  convenience stores  will lead a “revolution” in retail,
and the largest business opportunities will be for financial-
service providers, it said.  Indonesia is currently the world’s 16th-largest economy,
with GDP of about $846 billion last year, according to IMF data.
That may rise to $1.8 trillion in 2017, compared with Germany’s
$3.9 trillion economy and U.K. GDP of $3.2 trillion in the same
period, IMF data show.  Growth of “6 percent is just extraordinary in today’s
world where the U.S. is at between 1.5 and 2 percent, where
 Europe  is practically flat and where you’re having slowdowns in
China and India,” Jose Angel Gurria, secretary-general of the
OECD, said in an interview today with Bloomberg Television.
“There is a big challenge for Indonesia to keep up this growth
in the medium- and long-term.”  Monetary Policy  Bank Indonesia  kept its benchmark rate at a record-low 5.75
percent for seventh straight meeting in September. It has
committed to an inflation target of 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent,
and the OECD recommended the central bank move from a year-end
to a year-average target.  Bank Indonesia should “achieve the inflation target and,
as planned, reduce it over time,” the OECD said.  The main risk to Indonesia’s outlook is increased global
 risk aversion  stemming from the euro-area crisis that could
reverse the capital inflows of the past few years, the OECD
said. Balancing that, the sovereign rating upgrades allow
Indonesia to tap investment funds that are restricted to holding
investment-grade assets, it said.  Indonesia “is likely to remain relatively sheltered from a
slowdown in world trade, unless other Asian economies and
commodity prices are significantly affected,” the OECD said.  Indonesia was a member of OPEC until three years ago when
it began importing more oil than it exported and left the
cartel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  