-- Investors to Double Infrastructure Investments, Templeton Says
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-09-27T00:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/investors-to-double-infrastructure-investments-templeton-says.html
Investors worldwide are increasing
their holdings in infrastructure assets to meet growing demand
for financing to upgrade electricity, water and traffic projects,
said Joyce Shapiro, managing director at  Franklin Templeton
Investments. (BEN)   Institutional investors around the globe currently have as
much as 5 percent of their portfolios allocated to the asset
class and that may double in the next five to 10 years, said
Shapiro at Franklin Templeton Real Asset Advisors, which has
$4.1 billion in assets as of June.  An increase in private sector investments in infrastructure
projects will be “essential” as governments around the world
face financial strains, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in a report published in March.
Investors are seeking infrastructure investments as ways to
hedge inflation and pursue stable returns, Shapiro said.  “There is a tremendous amount of room for growth for that
kind of alternative asset sector,” Shapiro said in an interview
in Singapore on Sept. 25. “Many investors these days want
secure returns. In many of these different sectors, we can find
areas of opportunity to invest into assets that have inflation
linkage as opposed to taking that open or economic cyclical
kinds of risks.”  Templeton prefers projects that offer steady returns and
low volatility, Shapiro said. She cited a road in  Florida  as an
example, saying that an insurance company that was looking for
an asset yielding 9 percent to 9.5 percent invested after 75
percent of the project was completed. Shapiro declined to name
the insurer.  ‘No Magic’  Still, there is no rule of thumb for the expected return of
an infrastructure project, Shapiro said. It varies a lot,
depending on the stage of its development.  “There is no magic number, there is a range of numbers,”
she said. “You can go in a late-stage project in a developed
market or you can go in a new project in an emerging market
place entailing a lot of cyclical risk.”  Investment opportunities can be found in small and mid-
sized projects that are sought after less by bigger “multi-
billion dollar funds,” Shapiro said. The average size of a
project pursued by Franklin Templeton Real Asset Advisors ranges
from $10 million to $100 million, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in  Singapore  at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  