-- Iranian Leader Softens Anti-Israel Rhetoric in UN Speech
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-27T05:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/iranian-leader-softens-anti-israel-rhetoric-in-un-speech.html
Iran’s president made no overt
calls for Israel’s destruction and omitted any mention of his
nation’s disputed nuclear program during a United Nations speech
that instead offered his vision of a spiritual world.  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s address to the annual UN General
Assembly yesterday was tame by comparison to his previous
appearances before the world body and didn’t prompt walkouts by
Western delegations as in the past. The U.S., Israel and  Canada 
boycotted the speech to protest past offensive remarks.  The Iranian leader couched his words as an appeal for
peace, asserting that “Muslims, Christians, Jews, Hindus” and
other religions aren’t hostile to one another and “are all
devoted to the cause of justice, purity and love,” according to
an English translation.  Still, Ahmadinejad denounced what he called a “continued
threat by the uncivilized Zionists to resort to military action
against our great nation.” He also criticized intimidation
through nuclear weapons and “wrong management of the world” by
the “self-proclaimed centers of power who have entrusted
themselves to the Devil,” an apparent dig at the U.S. and other
Western powers.  With Ahmadinejad completing his second term and unable to
run again, the speech may have been an effort to use his final
address before the world body to paint himself as a peace-
seeking leader, said  Iran  analysts such as former CIA Iranian
targets officer Reuel Marc Gerecht.  Two Audiences  The 30-minute address was also likely aimed at two
audiences: the one in  New York  listening in translation for
references to current events, which were few, and the one in
Iran able to comprehend his Farsi nuances and his call to the
Shiite faithful, Iran specialists said.  “Ahmadinejad is trying to be more poetic in his swan song,
but he’s just as trenchant here in dividing the world, in
underscoring the clash of civilizations and the evil that lurks
among us,” said Gerecht, a fellow at the Foundation for Defense
of Democracies, a policy group in  Washington .  Gerecht, who read the speech in Farsi as well as in
English, said in an interview that it was “one of his best
speeches, because what he’s trying to do is reveal his inner
soul. He’s at his most sincere and -- I hesitate to use the word
soft -- but he’s using this as a call to Islam.”  While the language may have been too veiled or “poetic”
for an American audience to understand easily, Gerecht said, the
speech nonetheless was “a very powerful anti-American, anti-
Semitic attack.”  ‘Big Lie’  Ahmadinejad called the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks
“tragic,” a contrast to two years ago when he called them “a
big lie.” Still, he said a “fact-finding team” should have
been formed to reveal “the truth behind the incident,” which
Gerecht said was a reference to conspiracy theories that the
U.S. was behind the attacks.  After years of walking out during Ahmadinejad’s anti-
Semitic tirades, European Union diplomats apparently weren’t
offended enough to leave this time. One diplomat, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because of protocol, said the Iranian
president’s only crime this time was incoherence.  Other analysts such as Alireza Nader pointed to
Ahmadinejad’s less overt denunciations of  Israel  than in past UN
speeches as a sign that he is worried about a preemptive Israeli
attack on Iran’s nuclear facilities and wants to rally
international opinion behind Iran as a peace-loving nation.  ‘Toned Down’  “Given the amount of pressure Iran faces, it is not
surprising that Ahmadinejad has toned down his rhetoric at least
a little bit,” said Nader, a senior analyst in the Arlington,
Virginia, office of the Rand Corporation, a research group. “He
has been consistently criticized by his opponents, including
conservatives in Iran, for being a loose cannon by being
provocative and undiplomatic.”  Since 2005, when the Iranian president said Israel should
be “wiped off the map,” tensions between the two nations have
escalated steadily. The Iranian president has previously denied
the history of the Holocaust.  Asked at a news conference whether he intentionally toned
down his remarks about Israel, Ahmadinejad said the reporter
should reread the speech.  In his address, the Iranian president didn’t once mention
 Iran’s nuclear program , which has been the focus of diplomatic
efforts, economic sanctions and debate over military action.  The U.S. and its allies suspect Iran is using its atomic
energy program as a cover for developing a nuclear weapons
capability. Since April, the U.S.,  France , the U.K.,  Germany ,
 China  and  Russia  have pursued three rounds of diplomacy to
persuade Iran to abandon illicit aspects of its nuclear program.  Netanyahu Speech  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , who’ll address
world leaders at the UN today, has said he may have to launch a
preemptive strike on Iran’s nuclear facilities if talks fail.  In his news conference, Ahmadinejad said it wasn’t possible
for Iran to abandon its enrichment of uranium to 20 percent
purity, as negotiators have demanded, because uranium is needed
to fuel a medical reactor. International experts say Iran is
producing more of the medium-enriched uranium than needed for
its one medical reactor, and the  International Atomic Energy
Agency  says it can’t be sure Iran’s program is peaceful.  Ahmadinejad’s speech yesterday “revolved around one
central theme: Iran does not threaten the security of the  Middle
East , rendering military action against its nuclear facilities
illegitimate,” said Mehdi Khalaji, an Iran analyst at the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy, a research group.  ‘Military Threat’  Khalaji said in an interview yesterday that the tone of the
speech appeared to reflect that “Iranian leaders have started
to understand the genuine nature of military threat.”  He said “Iranian leaders employ rhetoric that is far less
aggressive than their usual standard” when military
confrontation becomes a concern, such as when the U.S. invaded
 Iraq  in 2003 and Iran feared it might be next.  Still others, such as Karim Sadjadpour, saw in his words an
effort to shape his legacy.  “Ahmadinejad was so explicitly offensive in previous
speeches at the UN that this year his more implicitly offensive
speech appeared almost statesman-like,” said Sadjadpour, a
fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in
Washington. “Ahmadinejad sees his constituency as the so-called
global 99 percent whom he believes share his anti-imperialist
worldview.”  He’s “positioning himself as a global political figure,
the  Bill Clinton  of the Islamist, anti-imperialist world,”
Sadjadpour said.  ‘Shaping Legacy’  Ali Alfoneh, an analyst at the  American Enterprise
Institute  in Washington, agreed that Ahmadinejad is “busy
shaping his legacy both at home and abroad.” His tenor in
interviews as well as the speech were an effort to depict
himself as a peacemaker, which Alfoneh called “an unlikely
legacy” if “his past behavior taken into consideration.”  Gerecht said the speech wasn’t a total makeover but rather
Ahmadinejad’s vision of religious salvation.  “He has always loved to talk about ‘peace and love,’ but
you need to always remember that what he’s doing is calling you
to Islam -- Shiite Islam,” he said. “His entire speech can
only properly be understood as a farewell missionary effort.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  