-- Italy Borrowing Costs Drop at Sale as Spanish Crisis Deepens
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-09-27T10:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/italy-borrowing-costs-drop-at-auction-as-spanish-crisis-deepens.html
Italy ’s borrowing costs dropped at
an auction of five- and 10-year bonds, indicating investors view
the country as a safer bet than Spain, where yesterday 10-year
bond yields climbed the most this month as anti-austerity
protests turned violent.  Italy sold 6.65 billion euros ($8.55 billion) of five- and
10-year bonds today, almost matching the 7 billion-euro maximum
target. The Rome-based Treasury priced a 10-year bond to yield
5.24 percent, down from 5.82 percent when a similar-maturity
bond was sold on Aug. 30, and it’s the lowest Italy paid to
borrow for 10 years since March 29.  The Treasury priced its five-year bond to yield 4.09
percent, compared with 4.73 percent last month. Italy also sold
a 2017 floating bond to yield 4.56 percent.  The  European Central Bank ’s plan to buy unlimited short-
term debt of distressed euro countries has helped lower Italy’s
borrowing costs. Still, Spain’s hesitation to seek aid, coupled
with concerns about the European economic outlook, risks renewed
pressure on Italy, burdened by  Europe ’s second-biggest debt.  “For the time being, Italy is passing the ’Spanish
contagion’ test,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy in London, said in an e-mailed note after the
auction. “Despite the escalating crisis in Spain, Italy was
able to pull off a fairly successful auction of longer-dated
paper, with a significant fall in yields.”  Italy’s 10-year bond rose 2 basis points to 5.23 percent at
11:31 a.m. in Rome, pushing the difference with comparable-
maturity German bunds to 378 basis points.  ’Decent Demand’  At today’s auction investors bid for 1.33 times the amount
of the 10-year bonds, down from 1.42 last month. The bid-to-
cover on the 4.75 percent five-year bond was 1.38, compared with
1.46 on Aug. 30.  Demand “was decent but not exceptionally strong,”
Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income analyst at Newedge Group in
 London , wrote in a note to clients. “Investors are still
skeptical about the development of the euro debt crisis and we
can’t rule out further volatility in cross-country spreads in
the coming sessions.”  The ECB bond-buying plan, first announced by President
 Mario Draghi  on Aug. 2, entails intervention in sovereign-bond
markets in tandem with Europe’s rescue funds, in return for
conditions. Spain and Italy, the countries currently most
vulnerable to contagion from the crisis that began in  Greece 
almost three years ago, have yet to decide whether to seek help.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , who championed the idea
of the rescue funds buying bonds, has said that his country
doesn’t need external help for the moment. Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has said he would consider making an aid
request to bring down borrowing costs, though a final decision
would depend partly on what kind of conditions are attached to
the support.  Spanish Turmoil  Yesterday Spanish 10-year yields rose the most this month on
concern the country faces a constitutional crisis after its
richest region called early elections and that recapitalization
of the nation’s banks faces new hurdles.  Catalonia will vote on Nov. 25 to determine greater
independence as local lawmakers battle Rajoy’s austerity
measures. He meets ministers today to approve a 2013 budget as
protests in the capital and dissent from regional leaders deepen
his predicament.  The premier’s efforts to rescue the nation’s lenders also
face trouble after  Germany , the Netherlands and  Finland  said the
region’s bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, should
assume only a limited burden. That may rule out the ESM from
being used to deal with the 100 billion euros in aid  Spain 
sought for its banks in June.  Monti said yesterday that Spain is taming its budget and
that improved fiscal oversight will help lower borrowing costs
for troubled euro members.  “Spain is doing very deep and serious things in terms of
budgetary control and in terms of structure reforms,” Monti
said in an interview on the “Charlie Rose” show on PBS
television. “Spain is decidedly on the right path and will come
out of it -- I mean come out of the risky zone.”  Today’s Italian bond auction follows yesterday sale of 9
billion euros of 181-day bills at the lowest rate since March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  