-- Italian Business Confidence Rises More Than Expected This
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-09-27T08:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/italian-business-confidence-rises-more-than-expected-this.html
Italian business confidence rose
this month more than economists forecast as executives became
more optimistic about a recovery from the country’s recession.  The manufacturing-sentiment  index  advanced to 88.3 from a
revised 87.3 in August, Rome-based national statistics institute
Istat said today. Economists had predicted a reading of 87.5,
according to the median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Italy’s gross domestic product shrank for the fourth
straight quarter in the three months ended June 30 as Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  raised taxes and the European sovereign
debt crisis curbed financing. Fulvio Conti, chief executive
officer of  Enel SpA (ENEL) , Italy’s biggest energy producer, said
yesterday he is counting on an economic recovery next year.  “I hope there will be a rebound, and I’m working for this
rebound to happen as everyone is,” Conti told reporters in
 Rome . “This decline should ease with a possible continuation of
the recession through the first six months, but with a rebound
that we expect in the second half of the year.”  Monti’s government increased its budget-deficit forecast
last week after underestimating the severity of the recession.
 Government spending  will probably exceed revenue by 2.6 percent
of gross domestic product this year, Monti’s office said. That
compares with the government’s April forecast of 1.7 percent.  Italian industrial output fell 0.2 percent in July from the
previous month and 7.3 from a year earlier, Istat said on Sept.
12.  Consumer confidence  remained near its lowest level in more
than 15 years, Istat said Sept. 25.  Istat originally reported an 87.2 reading for confidence in
August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  