-- Mitsubishi Estate Plans Marunouchi Rent Increase in 2013
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-09-27T06:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/mitsubishi-estate-plans-marunouchi-office-rent-increase-in-2013.html
Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802) ,  Japan ’s
largest developer by market value, said a shortage of space in
Tokyo’s Marunouchi business district will allow it to raise
office rents next year to help reverse a decline in profit.  The developer owns about 30 buildings in  Marunouchi ,
Tokyo’s most expensive office area and home to companies such as
JPMorgan Chase & Co., UBS AG and Standard & Poor’s Financial
Services LLC. Tokyo-based Mitsubishi plans to buy properties in
the U.S. and  Europe  and may acquire real estate investment
trusts or funds if opportunities arise, said President Hirotaka Sugiyama, declining to elaborate.  “The market is favorable, so we will take a more
aggressive approach going forward,” he said in an interview in
 Tokyo . “The office building business, which has been steadily
strengthening, is turning positive.”  Mitsubishi Estate, which is targeting operating profit of
185 billion ($2.4 billion) by March 2014, expects operating
profit to decline 8.4 percent to 134 billion yen for the current
business year ending March 2013 from a year ago. It is in its
second 10-year redevelopment plan for Marunouchi -- an area
which helps generate more than 90 percent of the company’s
profit -- under which it has boosted total floor space by 62
percent and tripled the number of stores.  Mitsubishi Estate’s vacancy rate in Marunouchi was 2.4
percent as of March compared with 2.3 percent a year ago,
according to the company. The vacancy rate in Tokyo’s five
central wards was 9.2 percent as of August, according to Miki
Shoji Co., an office brokerage company.  Raising Rents  “Cancellations and requests for rent reductions were less
than we had expected last year,” said Sugiyama. “As those
kinds of requests dissipate, we would like to start raising
rents.”  Office rents in the Marunouchi area are almost double the
average in the five central wards, even as average rents in
Tokyo have fallen to a record low, according to Los Angeles-
based property broker  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)   The average asking rent for Marunouchi, Otemachi and
Yurakucho districts is Japan’s highest at 30,000 yen per tsubo
as of the third quarter last year, according to the latest data
available from CBRE. That is more than double the 13,650 yen per
tsubo for Tokyo’s central five wards for the same period. One
tsubo, a standard measure of property area in Japan, is 3.3
square meters, or 35.5 square feet.  Overseas Business  Outside Japan, Mitsubishi Estate plans to increase its
overseas operating profit to account for 20 percent of total by
March 2021, from 4 percent as of March, 2012, he said. The
company has bought a 23-story commercial building in  San
Francisco  this year.  “We would like to focus on acquiring our own properties
and develop,” Sugiyama said. “To reach our expansion plan, we
may also consider mergers and acquisitions. We may consider
buying companies or REITs that own good properties if it makes
sense to us.”  The company also plans to begin developing logistics
facilities on its own in the Tokyo metropolitan area, Sugiyama
said. The developer earlier this year announced two warehouse
projects to build storage and distribution centers with partners
in Tokyo Bay and Kanagawa prefecture.  “This asset class is extremely attractive,” said Sugiyama.
“Buying land is not very easy. We would like to start to
develop our own as soon as we get our hands on a good
property.”  Mitsubishi Estate  shares  rose 1 percent to 1,516 yen,
reversing an earlier decline, at the close in Tokyo. The stock
closed at the highest since March 19, bringing its year-to-date
gain to 32 percent. That compares with the 37 percent advance by
the 44-member Topix Real Estate Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  