-- J.K. Rowling Tries Swearing, Sex in Unmagical Novel
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2012-09-27T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/j-k-rowling-tries-swearing-sex-in-unmagical-novel.html
Imagine “ Harry Potter ” with
nothing but Muggles -- mean, graceless people without a trace of
magic. It would be a dull book indeed.  That, unfortunately, is “  The Casual Vacancy ,”  J.K. Rowling ’s first novel for adults.  The setting is Pagford, a small town in  England ’s West
Country. Barry Fairbrother, a member of the town council, drops
dead in a parking lot on his way to dinner with his wife.  Rowling introduces a cross-section of the town’s residents
as they learn about Barry’s death. There are shopkeepers and
lawyers, doctors and teachers, a social worker and a bunch of
teenagers. They’re variously nasty, deluded, selfish, pompous,
petty, neurotic and annoying, and they don’t seem to like each
other very much.  We also meet a family from the Fields, a public housing
estate on the outskirts of town. Terri Weedon is a heroin addict
whose 16-year-old daughter, Krystal, can barely string two words
together unless one of them has four letters and begins with
“F.” The Weedons aren’t much fun to hang out with, but Krystal
turns out to be the most sympathetic character in the book.  The town is divided between those who want the Fields to
remain part of Pagford and those who want it split off and
reattached to the nearby city of Yarvil.  Pagford School  Barry himself was born in the Fields and wanted the
impoverished children living there to have the opportunity he
did to attend the lovely Pagford primary school, enjoying “the
tiny classes, the rolltop desks, the aged stone building and the
lush green playing field."  Several candidates step forward to run for Barry’s seat,
with varying motives. Much gossip and back-stabbing ensue.  I’m trying to make this sound enticing, but it’s hard.  Not that small-town life can’t make fascinating material.
Look what Flaubert did with a provincial housewife’s unhappiness
in “Madame Bovary.”  “The Casual Vacancy” never lifts off, though. It seems
too obvious to say there’s no magic, but  Harry Potter  aside,
every great book needs some alchemy to bring it to life.  You can feel it in “Telegraph Avenue,” Michael Chabon’s
new novel about a couple of cranky, sad-sack record-store
owners. Chabon’s Oakland has a shimmering reality Pagford never
achieves; and while his characters are hardly paragons of
virtue, they’re sympathetic in a way Rowling’s never are.  Reading ‘Potter’  “Harry Potter,” of course, had magic in spades. In
addition to reading all the books when they came out, I’ve read
the entire series to my son -- twice. The world Rowling created
was so enthralling and complex that we practically lived inside
it, debating the finer points every day while walking to school
or eating dinner.  I found new delights every time I read the books, and was
increasingly awed by Rowling’s careful plotting, the way she
subtly laid the groundwork for important revelations early in
the series without ever tipping her hand.  Maybe that kind of control works best on a larger canvas;
it gives “Vacancy” an airless feeling. Everyone in the book
has a secret, and while Rowling carefully portions out
information, telling us just enough to keep us reading, we never
doubt that by the end all will be revealed in a way that will
create maximum embarrassment for everyone.  This isn’t a bad book, just a disappointing one. There’s
plenty to admire, starting with Rowling’s obvious pleasure in
writing for grown-ups.  Adult Themes  Here she is describing Howard Mollison, local deli owner
and self-important chairman of the town council:  “He was an extravagantly obese man of 64. A great apron of
stomach fell so far down in front of his thighs that most people
thought instantly of his penis when they first clapped eyes on
him, wondering when he had last seen it, how he washed it, how
he managed to perform any of the acts for which a penis is
designed.”  There’s plenty of sex, especially among the teenagers.
Andrew, a pimply boy with a crush on a beautiful neighbor, Gaia,
is ecstatic when she sits in front of him on the school bus:  “Andrew stared, unseeing, at the grimy window, and
clutched his schoolbag more closely to him, to conceal the
erection brought on by the heavy vibration of the bus.” Take
that,  Ron Weasley !  It’s interesting to see a billionaire, who was on public
assistance when she started the series that made her fortune,
writing about class warfare.  There’s a lot to talk about in “The Casual Vacancy” -- it
tackles big issues that would make it appealing to book groups.
I just wish there were more joy in reading it.  “The Casual Vacancy” is published by Little, Brown (503
pages, $35, 20 pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click
 here .  (Laurie Muchnick is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on television,  Jason
Harper  on cars.  To contact the writer on the story:
Laurie Muchnick in  New York  at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 