-- Jamie McCourt Calls Divorce Payout Unfair After Dodgers Sale
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-09-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/jamie-mccourt-calls-divorce-payout-before-dodgers-sale-unfair.html
Former  Los Angeles  Dodgers owner
Frank McCourt’s ex-wife, Jamie McCourt, said the $131 million
divorce settlement she agreed to last year is unfair after her
ex-husband sold the team for $2.15 billion.  Jamie McCourt, in a request filed Sept. 24 in state court
in Los Angeles, said the settlement is based on fraud and asked
that it be set aside. Frank McCourt, as late as Aug. 31, 2011,
declared under penalty of perjury that the fair market value of
their assets was less than $300 million, according to Jamie
McCourt’s request.  Frank and Jamie McCourt settled their divorce battle in
October 2011 after two years of litigation, including a trial
over the validity of their postnuptial agreement. Jamie
relinquished her claim to be co-owner of the Major League
Baseball team in exchange for $131 million. The sale of the
Dodgers in March left Frank with $1.7 billion, Jamie McCourt
said.  “This is the most unfair division of assets I have ever
seen,” Bert Fields, Jamie McCourt’s lawyer, said today in a
phone interview.  Frank McCourt  ignored requests to voluntarily adjust the
settlement, Fields said.  According to Jamie McCourt’s filing, her ex-husband
“appears to claim he was mistaken” about the value of their
assets. Even if the understatement of the value of the Dodgers
was a mistake rather than fraud, that would also be grounds to
set aside the settlement, according to the filing.  Ryan Kirkpatrick, a lawyer for Frank McCourt, didn’t
immediately respond to phone calls after regular business hours
yesterday for comment on Jamie McCourt’s court filing.  The case is Jamie McCourt v. Frank McCourt, BD514309,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 