-- Japan, Australia Futures Little Changed on Growth Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-09-27T23:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/japan-australia-futures-little-changed-on-growth-concern.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures were little changed amid concern central banks will
struggle to stimulate growth as weakness in the global economy
and an unresolved debt crisis in Europe constrains spending.  American Depositary Receipts of  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of construction equipment that gets 80
percent of sales outside of Japan, slid 1.9 percent. Shares of
 Yue Yuen Industrial (Holdings) Ltd. (551) , a shoemaker that gets about
8 percent of sales from  Nike Inc. (NKE) , may be active in  Hong Kong 
after the world’s largest sporting-goods company forecast orders
that trailed analysts’ estimates as demand sank in China.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 8,960 in Chicago yesterday, at the same level
futures ended in Osaka, Japan. They were also bid in the pre-
market at 8,960 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index were little changed today. New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.5 percent in Wellington.  We are “cautiously positioned overall and skeptical about
the risk rally’s sustainability without growth improving,” said
 Gerard Minack , global strategist at Morgan Stanley in Sydney.
 “Fundamentals will trump central bank policy. Mixed-to-poor
macro data and warnings from bellwether stocks underline the
downside risk to consensus earnings forecasts. Events in Europe
suggest that the cycle of crisis, response, improvement,
complacency, could be rotating back into a crisis phase.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index climbed 4.1 percent this month
and 4.5 percent this quarter as central banks in Europe, the U.S.
and Japan took action to stimulate economic growth. The gauge
advanced 7.6 percent this year compared with a 15 percent gain
on the S&P 500 and an 11 percent advance on the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. The Asian benchmark traded at 12.8 times estimated
earnings compared with 14 for the S&P 500 and 12 for the Stoxx
Europe 600.  Futures on the S&P 500 were little changed today. The gauge
advanced 1 percent yesterday, halting a five-day slump, as U.S.
stocks joined a global rally amid speculation that China’s
government will do more to support growth. The optimism
outweighed U.S. data signaling a slowdown in business spending
and weaker-than-estimated second-quarter economic growth.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government announced
its fifth austerity package in what may be a move to head off
tougher conditions as part of a potential European bailout.  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials
climbed 1.2 percent yesterday.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed the most in two weeks,
gaining 2.2 percent to 92.20 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  