-- Japanese Stocks Drop on Growth Concern, Spanish Riots
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-09-27T06:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/japanese-stocks-drop-on-growth-concern-spanish-riots.html
Japanese  stocks  advanced, with the
 Topix (TPX)  Index rebounding from its steepest drop since May, after a
report of declining Chinese industrial profits fanned bets
policy makers will take steps to buoy Asia’s biggest economy.  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , a maker of construction equipment that gets
almost 15 percent of its sales in China, rebounded 2.3 percent.
 Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  added 1.3 percent after a report a
government-backed fund may invest in the unprofitable chipmaker.
 Nikon Corp. (7731) , a camera maker that gets a quarter of its revenue
in Europe, slid 1.2 percent after riots in  Spain  fueled concern
the region’s debt crisis may worsen.  The Topix gained 0.4 percent to close at 745.59 in Tokyo
after yesterday plunging 2 percent, the most since May 18. The
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 0.5 percent to 8,949.87, reversing
a 0.7 percent loss after the China profit report.  “Investors think China will invest more in infrastructure
after some reports the country will be more aggressive in
spending,” said  Ayako Sera , a market strategist at Sumitomo
Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd., which has 33 trillion yen ($420 billion)
in assets. “Sentiment got a little boost after Chinese markets
gained.”  The Topix has fallen 2.5 percent in the last six trading
days, wiping out more than a third of the the gains since Sept.
6 after the  European Central Bank  started a global wave of
easing, announcing unlimited bond purchases to curb the debt
crisis. Shares have fallen amid concern monetary stimulus won’t
revive growth.  “Investors had been focused on monetary easing, but
Europe’s crisis has grabbed everyone’s attention again,” said
 Akio Yoshino , who helps oversee the equivalent of $32 billion as
chief economist at Amundi Japan Ltd. in Tokyo. “The debt crisis
in Europe is deep-rooted and investors are scaling back their
expectations because over and over we’re reminded there are no
easy solutions.”  Spanish Protests  Japanese stocks declined earlier today after protests in
Spain and Greece against spending cuts fueled concern Europe’s
debt crisis may worsen. Spanish demonstrators marched for a
second night in Madrid yesterday, calling on Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  to reverse austerity measures, while police in
Athens dispersed protesters with tear gas.  Nikon slid 1.2 percent to 2,153 yen. Roland Corp., a maker
of electronic musical instruments that gets a third of its sales
from Europe, fell 0.9 percent to 559 yen.  The Bank of Spain said the economy contracted at a
“significant pace” in the third quarter. Reports showed French
 consumer confidence  dropped for a third month in September and
Italian retail sales declined in July.  “‘A sudden economic rebound would come close to a
miracle,’’ said Mikio Kumada, a Singapore-based global
strategist for LGT Capital Management, which oversees more than
$20 billion. ‘‘Agreements on fiscal policy will be much harder
to achieve than the recent monetary policy decisions.’’  Stimulus Hopes  Japanese stocks reversed losses today amid speculation
China may spend more on infrastructure after Chinese industrial
companies’ profits dropped for a fifth month in August. Net
income fell 6.2 percent from a year earlier to 381.2 billion
 yuan  ($60.4 billion), the National Bureau of Statistics said.
The number compares with a 5.4 percent decline in July and a 1.7
percent slide in June.  Komatsu rebounded 2.3 percent to 1,542 yen after a fifth-
day drop. Murata Manufacturing Co. an electronic-parts maker
that depends on China and Taiwan for 50 percent of its sales,
gained 1.8 percent to 4,220 yen.  Chinese Regulators  Markets around the region extended gains after Shanghai
Securities News reported there is speculation the China
Securities Regulatory Commission will hold a press
conference today to announce 10 market-boosting measures. CSRC
news department official Zhang Xiaojun said he’s
aware of the market talk and declined to comment further.  Renesas Electronics rose for a second day, adding 1.3
percent to 311 after  Kyodo News  reported a fund backed by the
Japanese government and a group of companies may invest about
200 billion yen ($2.6 billion) in the unprofitable chipmaker.  Aozora Bank Ltd. declined the most in the Nikkei 225,
falling 9 percent to 232 yen after the lender said its top
shareholder Cerberus NCB Acquisition LP plans to sell part of
its 821 million shares in the bank this year.  -- With assistance from Adam Haigh in Sydney. Editors: Jason
Clenfield,  Jim Powell   To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  