-- BOC Aviation Markets Dollar Bonds as Yields Hold Near 2010 Low
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-27T06:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/japan-bond-risk-nears-one-year-high-credit-default-swaps-show.html
BOC Aviation Pte,  Bank of China
Ltd. (3988) ’s aircraft-leasing unit, is marketing its debut U.S.
dollar-denominated debt as yields hold near the lowest since
2010.  Asia  bond risk headed for a fourth monthly decline.  BOC Aviation is offering five-year notes yielding about 250
basis points more than Treasuries, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  China Resources Cement Holdings Ltd. (1313) 
is marketing five-year notes at a premium of about 170 basis
points, another person said. Yields on Chinese company bonds in
dollars were last at 5.43 percent after dropping to 5.29 percent
on Sept. 19, the lowest since November 2010, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  Perceptions of Asian corporate creditworthiness improved
this month and dollar bond sales from the region surged as
central banks pumped cash into the world’s biggest economies.
Prospects that  China  may step up measures to support growth
drove a rebound in stock markets today, after sentiment worsened
earlier this week amid concern about a global slowdown and
violent protests in  Spain  against austerity measures.  “The all-in funding costs for lots of high-grade issuers
still make sense for them to tap the market,” said Keith Chan,
Hong Kong-based credit analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc. “So far
this week it is mostly the high-grade issuers that have managed
to come to the market, as the market backdrop is still a bit
weak.”  Bond Risk  The  Markit iTraxx Asia  index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  fell 1 basis point to 143 as of 9:16
a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show.
The gauge dropped 10 basis points this month, extending declines
this quarter to 27 and this year to 63, according to CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  China Resources Cement hired DBS Group Holdings Ltd. to
manage its offering, the person familiar with the matter said.  Shares of the state-backed company  jumped  30 percent to
HK$4.43 as of 1:15 p.m. in Hong Kong, from this year’s low of
HK$3.41 reached Aug. 30, as cement prices increased. The prices
rose by as much as 20  yuan  ($3.17) last week in the eastern
provinces of Anhui, Jiangsu and Zhejiang, Mick Mi, a Shanghai-
based analyst at UBS Securities Co., wrote in a Sept. 19 report.  BOC Aviation’s debt sale is being managed by Citigroup
Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and BOC International Holdings Ltd., the
person familiar with that offering said. The company set up a $2
billion Euro Medium Term Note program to fund new capital
expenditure and general corporate purposes, it said Sept. 20.
 Bank of China  bought the aircraft lessor in December 2006.  Completed dollar sales from the Asia-Pacific region have
dropped to $4.6 billion this week from $5.4 billion in the same
period of last week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Euphoria Cools  “The QE3 euphoria seems to have cooled off a little,”
said Luke Garner, co-head of high yield debt capital markets in
Asia ex-Japan for JPMorgan in Hong Kong. “In Asia,  market
sentiment  has waned in the last day or so, but for names that
are of good  credit quality  and with good credit stories as well
as existing issuers, the market remains open.”  The cost of insuring corporate bonds from non-payment in
Japan rose to the highest in almost a year today.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed 2.5 basis points to
231 basis points as of 9:23 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup prices
show. The measure advanced 20 basis points so far this month,
set for the highest close since Oct. 5, according to data
provider CMA. The gauge is 53 basis points higher this quarter,
extending the increase this year to 44, CMA data show.  The  Markit iTraxx Australia  index was unchanged at 164
basis points as of 10:26 a.m. in Sydney,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) 
prices show. The benchmark has fallen 5.5 basis points this
month, contributing to a 22 basis-point drop since June 30 and a
16.5 decline since the start of the year, CMA data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  