-- Japan Consumer Prices Fall 0.3 Percent as BOJ Goal Stays Elusive
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-09-27T23:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/japan-consumer-prices-fall-0-3-percent-as-boj-goal-stays-elusive.html
Japan ’s consumer prices fell 0.3
percent in August from a year earlier, matching the steepest
decline in 16 months as the central bank remains distant from a
1 percent inflation target.  The decline in prices excluding fresh food, reported by the
statistics bureau in Tokyo today, was the same as the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 26 economists. Japan’s
 jobless rate  decreased to 4.2 percent last month from 4.3
percent in July, according to a separate report.  Entrenched deflation may increase pressure on the central
bank to ease further after unexpectedly expanding its asset-
purchase fund last week. The decline reported today compares
with a  Bank of Japan (8301)  forecast for a 0.2 percent increase in
prices in the fiscal year that started in April and a 0.7
percent gain in the following 12 months.  “The Bank of Japan’s forecast for CPI is unrealistic,”
 Hiromichi Shirakawa , chief economist in Tokyo at Credit Suisse
Group AG and a former central bank official, said before the
report. “The BOJ will have to significantly increase their
level of money printing.”  The bank will update forecasts for prices and the economy
for the 2012 and 2013 fiscal years on Oct. 30. New BOJ board
member Takahide Kiuchi said the bank may cut inflation estimates
and could ease policy further through purchases of riskier
assets, Kyodo news agency reported Sept. 26.  “We expect the recent addition of two policy bureau
members to exert downward pressure on the BOJ’s median CPI
forecasts,” HSBC Securities Asia Ltd economist Izumi Devalier
wrote in a Sept. 26 note. “The BOJ will need to explore further
measures if it wants monetary easing to achieve its unspoken
goal of weakening the yen.”  A lowered price forecast on Oct. 30 may be coupled with a 5
trillion yen ($64 billion) expansion of the asset-purchase
program, Devalier said.  Deputy Governor Hirohide Yamaguchi said this week that “we
will take flexible and bold steps if we judge our policy is
insufficient to achieve our policy goal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  