-- Japan-China Politics Risk Prolonging Worst Ties Since 2005
-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-09-28T09:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/japan-china-politics-risk-prolonging-worst-tensions-since-2005.html
In 1984, Yoshihiko Noda was part of
a Japanese youth group visiting  China  welcomed by an up-and-
coming official named  Hu Jintao . Now leaders of their nations,
the two are locked in a conflict over barren islands that
threatens to undermine a legacy of 40 years of diplomatic ties.  Political transitions in both nations may prolong what’s
become the worst bilateral crisis since at least 2005, and
impaired a $340 billion trade partnership. President Hu is
poised to hand power to the next generation of China’s leaders,
and Prime Minister Noda faces elections as soon as this year.  With boats from China,  Japan  and  Taiwan  in disputed East
China Sea waters, any perception of backing down on territorial
claims would risk domestic political backlash. Noda faces a
newly installed opposition chief who advocates a harder line on
China, while Chinese citizens have demonstrated in public over
the Diaoyu, or Senkaku, islands. At the same time, it’s unlikely
the leaders will allow any escalation into open conflict.  “A large part of this is due to domestic political
considerations,” said Richard Samuels, a political science
professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and
author of ‘Securing Japan:  Tokyo ’s Grand Strategy and the Future
of East Asia.’ “The whole region is roiling amid the
uncertainty over leadership and that creates room for mischief.
There’s a period we’re going to have to get through, hopefully
without conflict.”  Japanese Delegation  In a sign that some elements in both countries want to
limit friction, a delegation from the Japan-China Friendship
Association met yesterday in Beijing with  Jia Qinglin , a member
of the Politburo Standing Committee, China’s top ruling body.
Chinese stocks have also  stabilized  after a slide last week amid
the worst of the protests, with the Shanghai Composite Index
gaining 1.6 percent in the past week.  “The conditions are rather different from when I met your
excellency in the spring, and I come this time with a heavy
heart,” former Japanese Foreign Minister Yohei Kono, leader of
the Japanese delegation, told Jia, who called the visitors “old
friends of the Chinese people.”  Fishing and energy rights are at the center of the
conflict.  China and Japan  have failed to implement a June 2008
deal to develop a natural  gas field  in the area and Japan has
objected to Chinese drilling nearby.  Island Purchase  The dispute escalated when Japan purchased the islands on
Sept. 11, 10 days before Noda was re-elected head of the
 Democratic Party  of Japan amid pressure to fulfill a pledge to
call elections “soon.” The main opposition  Liberal Democratic
Party  this week chose as its leader ex-premier Shinzo Abe, who
advocates building on the islands to assert sovereignty.  Polls indicate the LDP may defeat the DPJ, putting Abe in
line to become prime minister again. Japan is also embroiled in
a row with  South Korea  that flared after South Korean President
 Lee Myung Bak  last month visited islets claimed by both.  For the Communist Party, the conflict coincides with a
once-in-a-decade succession of power that’s been complicated by
the scandal involving ousted Politburo member  Bo Xilai , whose
wife was convicted of murdering a British businessman.  “Noda is having a difficult time at home and given the
territorial disputes with neighboring countries, fanning the
Diaoyu islands issue is the only card he can score to win
support,” said Feng Wei, a history professor at Fudan
University in Shanghai. “From China’s side, anti-Japanese
sentiment serves as the glue and ideology that can bring
everyone together.”  Businesses Damaged  The dispute saw Japanese restaurants and businesses
including  Fast Retailing Co. (9983) , owner of the Uniqlo clothing
brand, close shops in Beijing at the height of the protests in
the city. A  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  dealership was damaged by fire in
the Chinese city of Qingdao, while a Honda Motor Co. dealership
was also set ablaze.  China’s embassy in Tokyo today said it received a letter
with a bullet inside yesterday, according to a statement posted
on its website. The embassy urged Japanese police to secure the
safety of Chinese organizations and employees in Japan.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , the top Japanese seller of vehicles in
China, said  Sept. 26 that August output there fell 8.9 percent
from a year earlier, while Toyota’s production dropped 18
percent and Honda’s fell 10 percent. Japanese autos will lose
their lead this year to German competitors for the first time
since 2005, China’s Passenger Car Association estimates.  Yesterday, Chen Yulu, an academic adviser to the  People’s
Bank of China , told reporters in Beijing that the island dispute
threatens Tokyo’s future as an offshore  yuan  center.  Competing Claims  China maintains that it’s owned the islands for centuries.
Japan argues it took control of them in 1895, lost authority
after World War II, and had them returned by the U.S. in 1972.  Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  yesterday in a speech
at the  United Nations General Assembly  in New York said Japan
“stole” the islands. Yang and Japanese counterpart Koichiro Gemba made no progress this week at a meeting in New York, and
Noda said at the UN that Japan won’t retreat from its stance
that the islands are “an inherent part of our territory.”  “China strongly urges Japan to immediately stop all
activities that violate China’s territorial sovereignty,” Yang
said in his speech. In response, Japanese Chief Cabinet
Secretary Osamu Fujimura today told reporters in Tokyo that
China’s claims had no basis in fact.  “Both sides have to understand that they need to take
their egos and their nationalist instincts offline,” said Brad Glosserman, director of Pacific Forum CSIS, a Honolulu-based
research institute. “At the same time, neither country can
really afford to back down, insofar as they’ve both got extreme
nationalistic pressures.”  Situation ‘Worrisome’  China has sent patrol ships into waters administered by
Japan at least three times since the islands were bought. There
have been no confrontations with Japanese vessels, unlike the
Sept. 25 clash between the Coast Guard and about 50 boats from
Taiwan, which also claims the islands. The Japanese Coast Guard
used water cannons to drive off the Taiwanese boats.  “The situation is worrisome,” M.I.T.’s Samuels said.
“There is always the danger of miscalculation. That’s why Japan
patrols with the Coast Guard and not naval vessels, to act as a
buffer against rapid escalation.”  Chinese naval ships have been training in the area
recently, Defense Ministry spokesman Yang Yujun said yesterday,
according to the official Xinhua News Agency. U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  yesterday urged Foreign Minister Yang in a
meeting in New York to resolve the situation calmly, according
to a State Department official speaking on condition of
anonymity in line with ministry policy.  APEC Meetings  Noda and Hu failed to lower tensions at the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation Summit in Vladivostok, Russia this month.
The atmosphere contrasted with a November 2011 meeting in
Honolulu, when the two reminisced about Noda’s participation in
the 3,000-member exchange group that Hu welcomed in 1984.  In the meeting in Russia, Hu warned Noda that nationalizing
the islands would be illegal, Xinhua reported. Two days later,
Noda struck the deal to buy them.  “What we need is to reset ties,” said Kunihiko Miyake, a
professor of international relations at Ritsumeikan University
in Kyoto. “For that to happen we have to change the players. I
don’t think Hu Jintao and Noda can get along any more. We need
to start the groundwork for that, it may take months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  