-- Justice Department, IRS Seek to Avoid Tax Identity Theft
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-09-27T17:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/justice-department-irs-seek-to-avoid-tax-identity-theft.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  and the
 Internal Revenue Service  are working to head off  identity theft 
aimed at stealing people’s tax refunds when the filing season
begins in January, the government’s top tax prosecutor said.  The Justice Department will draw information from local
prosecutions to identify patterns in the cases and help the IRS
create computerized filters to block potentially fraudulent
refunds. They peak each year in the first few weeks of the
filing season as criminals try to get refunds under legitimate
taxpayers’ names before those people file their own returns.  “The schemes can be extraordinarily simple, and they
vary,” Kathryn Keneally, assistant attorney general for the Tax
Division, told reporters today in  Washington .  In a typical case, criminals steal or illegally purchase
taxpayers’ identifying information from hospitals, medical
offices, prisons and other places that have the data. They then
file false tax returns, claim a refund and have the money
deposited on a prepaid debit card.  The crime, which Keneally described as “horrifying,”
exploits the tension between the IRS’s twin goals of preventing
fraud and issuing refunds as quickly as possible.  In some cases, Keneally said, criminals have used the
Social Security numbers of Puerto Rico residents, many of whom
don’t have a federal tax-filing requirement. In these cases, she
said, it can be difficult for the IRS to distinguish between
fraud and a Puerto Rico resident who has moved into a state and
owes taxes.  $15 Billion  In a Sept. 15 speech in  Boston , IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman  said his agency this year stopped more than 3 million
tax returns and determined that 90 percent of those were
“bad.” He said the IRS blocked $15 billion in fraudulent
payments from being sent, up from $11 billion the year before.  Shulman also questioned whether the agency should place a
greater emphasis on fraud prevention and less on what he called
a “sacred assumption” that refunds should be delivered as
quickly as possible.  “We need to rethink the speed of refund paradigm,” he
said, according to prepared remarks. “I’m the first to admit
that this is a very delicate and difficult balancing act, but we
should not and cannot shy away from the challenge.”  Shulman’s term ends in November, and he has said he doesn’t
want to remain in the job.  Keneally also said today that the assignment of Tax
Division attorneys to federal prosecutors’ offices around the
country is ending as scheduled Oct. 1.  Bloomberg News  reported
March 27 that 25 of the 95 prosecutors in the division had been
given six-month assignments around the country.  “We are looking forward to welcoming back” the lawyers,
who mostly worked on tax cases while they were working in other
offices, she said. She said some of them, fewer than 10,
accepted offers to remain outside Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  