-- Kobre, Thompson & Knight, White & Case: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-09-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/kobre-thompson-knight-white-case-business-of-law.html
Sean Casey, of litigation boutique
Kobre & Kim LLP is representing Kareem Serageldin, the ex-global
head of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s CDO business who was arrested
by London police as he was negotiating his surrender to U.S.
authorities yesterday.  Serageldin, a U.S. citizen who lives in England, was
charged in February with masterminding a scheme to fake
collateralized debt obligations. He was taken into custody
yesterday outside the U.S. consulate, a person with knowledge of
the matter said. Both spoke on condition of anonymity because
the arrest isn’t public.  Melissa Seitter, a spokeswoman for Kobre & Kim, said Casey
had no comment.  Casey was the Deputy Chief of the Business and Securities
Fraud Unit of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern
District of New York, according to his firm biography. He also
was Senior Counsel in the Division of Enforcement at the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, according to the bio.  Serageldin, who couldn’t be immediately reached for
comment, may appear in court as early as today on a U.S.
extradition request, one of the people said. Earlier this year
when he was indicted in Manhattan federal court, Serageldin said
through his lawyers that he was surprised by the charges since
he had been cooperating with U.S. investigators for four years.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara in Manhattan, whose office is prosecuting the case,
declined to comment. A spokesman for the Metropolitan Police in
London declined to comment immediately on the arrest.  For more, click here.  Enea Board Says CEO Breached Standards With Law Firm Deal  Enea SA (ENA)  Chief Executive Officer Maciej Owczarek breached
ethical standards while awarding a contract to law firm
Kancelaria Adwokacka D. Uberman, according to documents
published by the Polish state-owned utility.  Poland’s third-largest power producer paid 94,800 zloty
($29,442) to the Warsaw-based company owned by Dominika Uberman
for legal services from December 2011 to March 2012, the
documents showed. During this period, Owczarek had a “personal
relationship” with Uberman, according to his statement to the
supervisory board, which probed the contract after a request
from the Treasury Ministry in April. The government holds a 51
percent stake in Poznan, western Poland-based Enea.  The results of the probe were included in the management’s
letter to the Treasury Ministry dated Sept. 14 and published as
a regulatory statement to the  Warsaw Stock Exchange (GPW)  Sept.25.
Enea shareholders will meet on Oct. 22 to discuss the letter and
vote on changes to the supervisory board, the company said in a
separate regulatory filing.  Magdalena Kobos, a spokeswoman for the Treasury Ministry,
said by phone yesterday that it was up to the supervisory board
to make further decisions on Owczarek after the probe.  Dagmara Prystacka, an Enea spokeswoman, declined to comment
when contacted by phone yesterday. The management agreed to
terminate the contract with Uberman’s law firm in March,
according to the letter.  “There was no conflict of interest,” Uberman said in an
e-mailed response to Bloomberg News questions yesterday. “The
fact that I canceled the agreement myself as soon as the
relationship became serious should be interpreted as proof of
our responsibility and not as a reason for attacks.”  Firm News  Thompson & Knight Opens L.A. Office Led by Shelly Youree  Thompson & Knight LLP is opening a Los Angeles office, on
Oct. 1, which will be led by partner Shelly A. Youree. A Crowell
& Moring LLP litigator joins the Century City office as of
counsel.  Youree will serve as relationship manager and represent
clients in tax, executive compensation, employee benefits, and
equity and incentive plans both within and outside of
California. Her practice encompasses tax and ERISA issues
involved in executive compensation and benefits issues in
mergers and acquisitions; consulting, design, drafting, and
implementation of executive and employee compensation and
benefit arrangements, the firm said.  Bruce J. Zabarauskas joins the firm as counsel from Crowell
& Moring, where he has represented institutional lenders,
including national banks, special servicers, and investment
banks, in commercial real estate foreclosure actions and Chapter
11 bankruptcy proceedings. He also has experience, at both the
trial and appellate levels, litigating corporate breach of
fiduciary duty, breach of contract, defamation, and First
Amendment issues.  “The opening of a California office and the addition of
Bruce further strengthen our geographic reach, enhance the
services we provide, and demonstrate our commitment to current
and prospective clients located in or doing business in
California,” says Emily A. Parker, managing partner at Thompson
& Knight.  Thompson & Knight will provide a range of legal services to
its clients including banking, corporate, mergers and
acquisitions, oil and gas, real estate, labor and employment,
trial, and health care law. The firm has approximately 330
attorneys with 11 offices in Texas, New York, California,
Michigan, and in Mexico, Algeria, and Europe.  Moves  White & Case Adds Oracle and CODA Automotive Lawyers Global  White & Case  LLP has expanded its mergers and acquisitions
and  capital markets  capabilities with the addition of Eric
Hwang, formerly of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , and Christopher Rose, formerly
of CODA Automotive, as partners in the Silicon Valley office.  As director of corporate development at Oracle Corp., Hwang
was involved in managing Oracle’s acquisitions, including its
purchase of social media marketer Vitrue, project portfolio
management vendor Skire, telecommunications software provider
GoAhead Software and knowledge management vendor InQuira.  At electric-vehicle maker CODA, Rose served as senior vice
president of corporate development, in addition to managing
CODA’s legal, risk management, and environmental, health and
safety departments  With the arrival of Hwang and Rose, White & Case has added
11 new partners this year to its global mergers and acquisitions
practice. The firm has lawyers in 38 offices in 26 countries.  Jones Day Expands in London With Nabarro Employment Team  Jones Day  hired former Nabarro LLP employment head Jules
Quinn, and a team of associates, as a partner in London. She
will join the firm on Nov. 5.  Quinn has experience advising on both non-contentious and
contentious employment matters for financial institutions and
corporations, with a particular emphasis on U.S. companies based
in the U.K., the firm said.  The firm couldn’t provide further information on the number
of associates joining Quinn.  In the last 18 months, Jones Day has hired 12 lateral
partners in London. Five associates were promoted to the
partnership in January. The firm has more than 2,400 lawyers in
35 offices worldwide.  Hogan Lovells Adds to Technology, Media and Telecoms Practice  Hogan Lovells  LLP hired Trey Hanbury, former Director of
Government Affairs for Sprint Nextel, as a partner in the
technology, media and telecom practice in the Washington office.  During his time at Sprint Nextel, Hanbury was regulatory
counsel in rulemaking proceedings, mergers and acquisitions, and
cases, before the Federal Communications Commission, the
 National Telecommunications and Information Administration  of
the  Department of Commerce , the Departments of Justice and
 Homeland Security , Congress, and federal courts.  Hogan Lovells has more than 2,300 lawyers in more than 40
offices worldwide.  Orrick Expands Emerging Companies Practice in New York  Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP announced that David L. Concannon has joined the firm as a partner in its emerging
companies group, in the New York office. Formerly with Andrews
Kurth LLP, Concannon’s practice focuses on general corporate and
securities work with an emphasis on capital markets, mergers and
acquisitions, and venture capital transactions for technology
companies.  Concannon advises on the formation and organization of
startups, venture capital financings, public offerings of debt
and equity securities, public and private mergers and
acquisitions, restructurings, joint ventures and other corporate
partnering arrangements.  Orrick represents more than 1,200 emerging companies
worldwide, the firm said. The firm has more than 1,100 lawyers
25 offices in nine countries in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Paul Hastings LLP Hires Finance and Capital Markets Partner  Finance and capital markets lawyer Neil Hamilton is joining
 Paul Hastings  LLP as a partner with the finance and investment
management practices in London. Hamilton was previously a
partner with Clifford Chance LLP, the firm said.  Hamilton focuses his practice on securitizations and
structured finance. His work has a cross-border element,
primarily involving the U.S., Germany, France and Spain, the
firm said.  Paul Hastings has 19 offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  K&L Gates Bolsters Intellectual Property Practice in Seattle  K&L Gates LLP has added Hugh H. Matsubayashi as a Seattle
partner in the  intellectual property  procurement and portfolio
management practice. Matsubayashi joins K&L Gates from
NeuroVista Corporation, where he was Vice President of Legal
Affairs and Intellectual Property, the firm said.  As a member of the executive management team and chief IP
counsel at NeuroVista, Matsubayashi developed the company’s
strategy to secure protection for its implantable
neuromonitoring and seizure prediction devices, in addition to
managing all of the company’s legal affairs, including its
licensing efforts and venture and debt financings, the firm
said.  K&L Gates has almost 2,000 lawyers in 41 offices in  North
America , Europe, Asia,  South America  and the Middle East.  Litigation  Ex-Goldman Programmer Sues for $2.4 Million in Legal Fees  Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  computer programmer  Sergey Aleynikov , charged twice with stealing confidential trading
code, sued the bank for payment of more than $2.4 million in
legal fees.  Goldman Sachs should pay fees and expenses incurred during
Aleynikov’s federal prosecution, which resulted in a conviction
that was later overturned, his lawyers argued in court papers
filed Sept. 25 in federal court in Newark, New Jersey.  Aleynikov, who is unemployed, relies on the charity of
friends for shelter and doesn’t have the funds to fight the
state case or pay his attorney  Kevin Marino ’s law firm an
initial retainer of $500,000, Marino said in the complaint.  Aleynikov was freed from federal prison earlier this year
after the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York reversed the 2010
conviction in federal court in Manhattan. He was subsequently
charged by New York state prosecutors in Manhattan over the same
matter.  Aleynikov is entitled to indemnification because of his
previous employment as an officer of Goldman Sachs, according to
the complaint. Aleynikov, a vice president in the bank’s Global
Equities Division until June 30, 2009, was part of a team
responsible for developing and improving source code related to
high-frequency trading, according to the complaint.  Aleynikov pleaded not guilty to the charges.  The case is Aleynikov v. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., 12-
cv-05994, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  SEC Fraud Lawsuit Deadlines Draw Review From U.S. Supreme Court  The U.S.  Supreme Court  agreed to hear an appeal that seeks
to force the Securities and Exchange Commission to move more
quickly in pressing fraud lawsuits.  The justices said Sept. 25 that they will hear arguments
from two Gabelli Funds LLC officials seeking to block SEC claims
that they improperly let a client engage in market timing, a
practice of making frequent, short-term trades at the expense of
other investors.  Marc J. Gabelli and Bruce Alpert contend that the SEC sued
after the five-year window for seeking penalties had expired. A
federal appeals court in New York said the suit could go forward
because the window doesn’t open in fraud cases until the SEC has
reason to know a violation has occurred.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP ’s Lewis Liman is
counsel of record for the petitioners. Dechert LLP’s Kathleen Massey is also counsel representing Alpert.  The case raises issues similar to those addressed by the
Supreme Court in 2010, when it ruled that the two-year period
for shareholder fraud suits doesn’t begin until investors have
indications of intentional company wrongdoing. The new case
concerns SEC enforcement actions, rather than private suits.  Gabelli and Alpert contend that, under the appeals court
ruling, “the SEC would be able to bring an ancient claim on the
mere allegation that it did not discover and could not have
discovered the violation earlier.”  At the time of the alleged wrongdoing -- from 1999 to 2002
-- Gabelli was the portfolio manager for the Gabelli Global
Growth Fund and Alpert was chief operating officer of Gabelli
Funds. The SEC filed its complaint in 2008.  The SEC and the Obama administration urged the high court
not to take up the case. They said the court has “repeatedly
recognized” the so-called discovery rule in fraud cases.  The case is Gabelli v. SEC, 11-1274, U.S. Supreme Court
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 