-- Korean Bonds Rise as Europe Concerns Mount; Won Advances
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-09-27T01:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/korean-bonds-rise-as-europe-concerns-mount-won-advances.html
South Korea’s government bonds
rose, pushing the three-year yield to a two-week low, as concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen spurred demand for the safest
assets. The won strengthened as exporters repatriated income
ahead of the Chuseok holiday.  Spain ’s 10-year yield topped 6 percent yesterday as
protesters marched for a second night in  Madrid , calling on
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to reverse austerity measures as
his nine-month-old government prepared its fifth package of
budget cuts. South Korean manufacturers’ confidence fell toward
the lowest level since 2009, a monthly report by the central
bank showed today. The Kospi  index  fell for a third day. Local
financial markets are closed Oct. 1 for a public holiday.  “The market’s focus has moved again to Europe with
protests in Spain heightening political risks,” said Lee Hak Seoung, a fixed-income analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc. in
Seoul. “Still, with Korean bonds having been supported so far,
I don’t see much room for further gains.”  The yield on the government’s 3.25 percent bonds due June
2015 fell for a fourth day, declining one basis point to 2.78
percent as of 9:50 a.m. in  Seoul , Korea Exchange Inc. prices
show. The rate for benchmark three-year bonds dropped 52 basis
points this quarter. The one-year interest-rate swap was little
changed today at 2.88 percent.  The currency strengthened 0.1 percent to 1,119.40 per
dollar, contributing to a 2.3 percent gain for the quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price
options, dropped 23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage point,
today to 6.43 percent.  “Exporters’ selling the dollar to convert currency is
concentrated with the Chuseok holiday and end-of-quarter
nearing,” said Cho Young Bok, a Seoul-based currency trader for
Daegu Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  