-- Netanyahu Says Limits Must Be Set on Iran Uranium Enrichment
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-09-27T21:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/netanyahu-says-limits-must-be-set-on-iran-uranium-enrichment.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  told the  United Nations  that the international
community must impose explicit “red lines” on Iran’s uranium
enrichment program to prevent it from attaining nuclear weapons.  “Red lines don’t lead to war, they prevent war,”
Netanyahu told the UN General Assembly today. Using a
rudimentary cartoon diagram of a bomb to illustrate the progress
of Iran’s uranium enrichment, the Israeli leader said the
Islamic Republic had already passed the first stage toward
nuclear weaponization.  “By next spring, at most next summer, at current
enrichment rates, they will have finished the medium enrichment
and moved on to the final stage,” he said. “From there it’s
only a few months, possibly a few weeks, before they get enough
enriched uranium for the first bomb.”  That was the Israeli leader’s most specific timing for a
crisis point. In recent months, Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  has
said that Israel may feel compelled to strike Iran’s enrichment
facilities as early as this fall.  Netanyahu’s speech follows weeks of open disagreement with
President  Barack Obama ’s administration over Iran. Warning that
the Islamic Republic may be just months away from developing a
nuclear weapons capability, Netanyahu has asked the U.S. to set
explicit “red lines” that would justify military action, a
step U.S. officials have declined to take as they depend for now
on economic sanctions to pressure Iran.  International Safeguards  Iran, which says its nuclear facilities are for peaceful
civilian purposes, has vowed to retaliate if attacked.  Iran’s uranium enrichment activities are under
international monitoring to prevent diversion to weapons use.
The  International Atomic Energy Agency  said it has seen no
diversion. Still, the agency reiterated last month that it “is
unable to provide credible assurance about the absence of
undeclared nuclear material and activities in Iran, and
therefore to conclude that all nuclear material in Iran is in
peaceful activities.”  Netanyahu “sure made it clear that the nuclear red line is
spring or summer of 2013,” said  Mark Dubowitz  of the
Washington-based Foundation for Defense of Democracies, who
has advised the administration and Congress on sanctions against
Iran. “That’s when Iran will have enough medium enriched
uranium, at 20 percent, which is 90 percent of the way to
military grade uranium, to build an atomic weapon.”  Bomb Requirements  To produce a bomb, Iran would have to further process the
stockpile of 20 percent enriched uranium, a level used to fuel
its medical reactor, to 90 percent to make a single bomb, which
would involve abandoning the current “safeguards” monitoring
by the IAEA. That would give the U.S. ample notice to take
action to prevent it, U.S. officials have said. It would also
require Iran have the technical capability to fabricate a bomb
and detonator, as well as made it capable of being delivered by
missile or other means.  Netanyahu spoke at the UN a day after Iranian President
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  stood at the same spot and cited what he
termed the “continued threat by the uncivilized Zionists to
resort to a military action against our great nation.”  Netanyahu accused Iran of supporting Islamic fundamentalist
terrorist groups throughout the  Middle East  and being behind a
series of attacks carried out against Israeli diplomats in
several countries during the past year.  ‘Iranian Aggression’  “Given this record of Iranian aggression without nuclear
weapons, just imagine Iranian aggression with nuclear weapons,”
Netanyahu said. “Who would be safe in  Europe ? Who would be safe
in America?”  U.S. officials have said they believe Iran’s supreme
leader,  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , hasn’t made a decision to
develop an atomic bomb. Obama, in his UN address Sept. 25,  said
the U.S. would do whatever it takes to keep Iran from acquiring
nuclear weapons and warned that time for a diplomatic resolution
“is not unlimited.” He didn’t offer a specific red line on
Iranian actions, as Netanyahu has sought.  “I very much appreciate the President’s position as does
everyone in my country,” Netanyahu said, backing away from
recent public criticism. “We share the goal of stopping Iran’s
nuclear weapons program.”  Best Approach  Netanyahu is scheduled to meet later today in  New York  City
with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton . The U.S. is “not
setting deadlines” for Iran and still considers negotiations as
“by far the best approach” to the Islamic Republic, Clinton
said in an interview with  Bloomberg Radio  on Sept. 9. Netanyahu
responded two days later that “those in the international
community who refuse to put a red line before Iran don’t have
the moral right to place a red light before Israel” to
forestall military action.  The debate over Iran has spilled over into the U.S.
elections, with Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  accusing Obama
of throwing “Israel under the bus” and criticizing the
president for not meeting with Netanyahu during his three-day
visit to the U.S.  The White House said the meeting isn’t taking place because
of scheduling issues with the election so close, and that Obama
and Netanyahu will talk on the phone later today.  Talks between Iran and the IAEA, and negotiations with the
so-called P5+1 nations -- the U.S.,  Russia , China,  France , the
U.K. and Germany -- haven’t found a formula to slow the Islamic
Republic’s uranium enrichment program. Nor have economic
sanctions imposed against Iran by the U.S. and the Europe Union
forced concessions from the Tehran government.  Palestinian Issues  Netanyahu’s UN speech followed earlier remarks by
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , who spoke to the
General Assembly of “the catastrophic danger of the racist
Israeli settlement of our country,  Palestine .”  Netanyahu responded that “we won’t solve our conflict with
libelous speeches at the UN.”  “We won’t solve our conflict with unilateral declarations
of statehood,” he said. “We have to sit together, negotiate
together, and reach a mutual compromise, in which a
demilitarized Palestinian state recognizes the one and only
Jewish state.”  Following his UN address, Netanyahu met with New York City
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  at his official Gracie Mansion
residence. Bloomberg said the Israeli leader “made a very
compelling case today why a clear red line is needed, and why
that will help preserve peace.”  “And I am sure that the U.S. and Israel can work out a
common policy in the interests of both nations and in the
interests of peace,” Bloomberg said. The mayor is founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Working out that joint policy will require Netanyahu, in
his private discussions with U.S. officials, to go beyond the
generalities outlined in today’s address.  “In continuing to talk about red lines without defining
them, or clearly laying out the consequences, Netanyahu
continues to erode Israel’s deterrence,” said  Aaron David Miller , a senior fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars, a Washington policy group. “That’s not
good for his -- or Israel’s -- credibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  