-- New York Life Adds Cornerstone Stake for Asset Management
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-09-27T17:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/new-york-life-takes-cornerstone-stake-to-build-asset-management.html
New York  Life Insurance Co., the
largest U.S. life insurer owned by policyholders, said it agreed
to take a stake in Cornerstone Capital Management Inc. to add
about $2.7 billion in assets under management.  The insurer will acquire a minority stake and then increase
its ownership over seven years to a majority holding, New York
Life said today in a statement.  New York Life is among insurers seeking to boost income
from managing clients’ money as low yields pressure returns from
life insurance and annuities. The firm managed more than $345
billion in assets as of July 31.  Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG) 
has said it is seeking to generate more revenue from fees as
 interest rates  near record lows pressure life insurance profit.  “It complements the suite of investment capabilities we
have across our different boutiques,” Yie-Hsin Hung, a senior
managing director in New York Life’s investments group, said in
an interview. “It really comes down to their investment
capability and process, which we found to be very strong.”  Cornerstone, led by Andrew Wyatt and Thomas Kamp, manages
the  Keystone Large Cap Growth Fund (KLGAX) , which has beaten 68 percent
of similar funds over the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The firm also invests in equities for
pension funds and endowments and has about $2.7 billion in
assets under management, Kamp said. That compares with $2.2
billion as of July 31.  The Keystone fund’s largest holding is  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the
maker of iPads and iPhones.  Active Trading  “What really sets us apart is we actively trade around a
core position in a given name,” Kamp said by phone. “We
actually increase the weighting in a given name as the reward-
to-risk ratio becomes more attractive.”  As part of the deal, New York Life’s MainStay Investments
will distribute the fund, and Minneapolis-based Cornerstone will
continue to manage investments, pending shareholder approval.  “We will see significant growth in assets over the coming
years, filling a need in their product portfolio,” Kamp said.  He said the New York-based insurer ultimately will own 80
percent of Cornerstone and the purchase price will be based on
the success of the firm.  MainStay, New York Life’s mutual fund business, had more
than $63.5 billion in assets under management as of July 31. The
investment manager said in July it reached a deal to add  Michael Shaoul ’s  Marketfield Fund (MFLDX) , with about $2 billion in assets under
management, pending shareholder approval.  John Brine, a New York Life spokesman, declined to discuss
the terms of today’s deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  