-- New Jersey Grandfather Gets 3 to 9 Years in Columbia Theft
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-09-27T17:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/new-jersey-man-gets-3-to-9-years-in-columbia-theft-1-.html
A New Jersey grandfather convicted
last month in connection with a $5.7 million theft from  Columbia
University  was sentenced to three to nine years in prison.  Justice Robert Stolz of New York State Supreme Court in
Manhattan handed down the sentence today against 66-year-old
Walter Stephens Jr., one of four men convicted of grand larceny
and other charges on Aug. 7 after a two-week trial.  The four men were accused of stealing $5.7 million from the
Ivy League school in October and November 2010 by redirecting
payments from Columbia that were intended for New York
Presbyterian Hospital.  Two of the men, George Castro, 50, of the Bronx, and Jeremy
Dieudonne, 47, of Lawrence,  Massachusetts , were sentenced to 7
to 21 years in prison by Stolz on Sept. 24. Another man, Joseph
Pineras, 36, of the Bronx, the only defendant who worked for the
school, is scheduled to be sentenced in November.  Stephens, of  Jersey City , was sentenced to three to nine
years on one count of grand larceny, three to nine years on one
count of first degree criminal possession of stolen property,
and two to six years on one count of third degree possession of
stolen property. The sentences will run concurrently.  Prosecutors had asked the judge to impose sentences of four
to 12 years for each of the first degree counts and two to six
years on the third degree charge, citing prior convictions for
theft, breaking and entering and bank robbery.  Poor Health  Stephens’s lawyer, Lorin Nathan of the Legal Aid Society,
asked for the minimum of one to three years, saying his client’s
health is poor and he is in “extreme economic difficulty.”  Stephens, Castro and Dieudonne, with the help of Pineras’s
access to the school’s vendor payment system, redirected
payments for the hospital into a TD Bank account registered to
IT & Securities Solutions LLC, a company formed by Castro,
 Manhattan  District Cyrus Vance Jr.’s office said. Stephens was
the chief financial officer and Dieudonne was an executive at IT
& Securities Solutions, prosecutors said.  Stephens told the judge today that he had done consulting
work for Castro, who told him he had found outside investors yet
didn’t identify them or say where the money came from.  “I am very angry,” Stephens said. “I am angry because
aspersions have been placed upon my person which are
groundless.”  Brokerage Accounts  Castro withdrew more than $800,000 in cash from the account
and spent at least $80,000 on an Audi Q7 and more than $18,000
on products from Apple Inc., prosecutors said. He sent money to
other accounts in Stephens’s name and to brokerage accounts he
and Stephens controlled, and sent payments to a bank account in
the name of Dieudonne Partners & Co., according to prosecutors.  Stephens also bought plane tickets, suits and jewelry with
the stolen funds, prosecutors said.  Castro was arrested in November 2010 outside his home with
$200,000 cash while entering his Audi, prosecutors said.
Stephens was arrested in June 2011, Dieudonne was apprehended in
Massachusetts the following month, and Pineras was taken into
custody in January.  About $3.5 million of the stolen funds has been recovered,
prosecutors said in court today.  A former Columbia employee, Moise Jean-Paul, who testified
against the four men, pleaded guilty to grand larceny and agreed
to cooperate with prosecutors in exchange for a recommendation
of no jail time, Robert Anesi, an attorney who had represented
Pineras, said after the convictions last month.  Jean-Paul’s attorney, Anthony Martone, didn’t return
multiple telephone messages and Vance’s office has declined to
comment on the case.  The case is People v. Castro, 11-02922,  New York  State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  