-- NFL Referees Will Return Tonight After Agreement Ends Lockout
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-09-27T05:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/nfl-referees-reach-labor-agreement-to-end-four-month-lockout.html
The  National Football League ’s
regular referees will return for tonight’s game at Baltimore
after the league and officials reached agreement on an eight-
year deal to end a lockout that began in early June.  “It’s time to put the focus back on the teams and players
where it belongs,” NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  said in a
statement.  Regular officials will take charge of tonight’s visit to
the  Baltimore Ravens  by the  Cleveland Browns , Goodell said. The
NFL and the union reached an agreement late last night, two days
after a game-ending call that President  Barack Obama  labeled
“terrible” and one player described as “embarrassing.”  “This agreement supports long-term reforms that will make
officiating better,” Goodell said. “The teams, players and
fans want and deserve both consistency and quality in
officiating.”  The $9.3 billion-a-year league and its officials met for
two days in  New York  to settle disagreements that focused on
compensation and the continuation of a  pension plan  that was
written into the last labor accord.  Officials’ compensation will increase from an average of
$149,000 a year in 2011 to $173,000 in 2013 and to $205,000 by
2019, The NFL said. The pension system will change after the
2016 season.  Officials will meet beginning tomorrow to vote on the
collective bargaining agreement. Goodell can approve the deal
without a vote of NFL owners.  Ratification Vote  “Our board of directors has unanimously approved taking
this proposed CBA to the membership for a ratification vote,”
Scott Green, president of the NFL Referees Association, said in
a joint statement released by the league and the union. “We are
glad to be getting back on the field for this week’s games.”  The 136 replacement officials were recruited from the
second tier of college football and lower levels and handled the
entire preseason schedule amid criticism from coaches and
players over missed calls and inaccurate spotting on downs.  The complaints intensified during the first three weeks of
the season and talks with the union resumed after the  Seattle
Seahawks  beat the  Green Bay Packers  Sept. 24 on a controversial
last-second touchdown catch, the last decision made by the
replacement referees.  Packers offensive lineman T.J. Lang said on his Twitter
account that the call, which awarded Seahawks receiver Golden Tate a game-winning touchdown with no time on the clock, was
“embarrassing.”  Simultaneous Catch  Even though Green Bay safety M.D. Jennings appeared to
intercept the ball before Tate reached in, the referees ruled it
a simultaneous catch, which goes to the offense under league
rules. The call was upheld on video review.  From Hall of Fame players to the Wisconsin governor’s
office and all the way to the White House, the NFL was inundated
with pleas to settle with the officials’ union and protect the
image and integrity of the most popular sport in the U.S. Las
Vegas bookmakers said the disputed call in the Seattle-Green Bay
game caused a $300 million swing in payoffs worldwide.  This week, New England Patriots coach  Bill Belichick  was
fined $50,000 and Washington Redskins assistant Kyle Shanahan
$25,000 for interactions they had with the replacement officials.
Denver Broncos coaches John Fox and Jack Del Rio were fined a
total of $55,000 for berating the referees in Week 2.  The NFL also used replacement officials for the first week
of the 2001 season before reaching a contract agreement.  NFL referees work about 36 hours per week, including
meetings the day before a game, crew breakdowns on the day after
a game and a test every Thursday, according to  Sports
Illustrated .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in San  Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  