-- Nigerian Bonds Index Inclusion Spurs Structured Note Sales
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2012-09-27T07:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/nigerian-bonds-index-inclusion-spurs-structured-note-sales.html
Investors bought $284 million of
structured notes tied to Nigerian government debt in the past
six weeks in anticipation of the debt’s inclusion in benchmark
bond indexes and after central bank stimulus measures.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  led banks in
selling 28 naira-denominated credit-linked notes this year worth
64.08 billion naira ($407 million), with 70 percent of issuance
coming since Aug. 23, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Only two such notes totaling $23.5 million were sold in all of
2011.  Investor demand for the currency and debt of Africa’s
biggest crude producer has surged since  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
said in August it would include Nigerian debt in its bond
indexes, said Yvonne Mhango, an economist for sub-Saharan Africa
at Renaissance Capital. Riskier assets became more appealing
after the world’s largest central banks took action to spur
growth in September, including a third round of quantitative
easing in the U.S., known as QE3.  “The increase in interest in Nigeria’s local currency debt
is due to QE3, which has boosted investors’ risk appetite,
partly because  interest rates  are likely to remain low for
longer and also because of the inclusion of Nigerian bonds in
the JPMorgan government bond index,” said Johannesburg-based
Mhango. “That signals Nigerian debt is liquid.”  Naira Appreciation  The naira appreciated 3 percent against the dollar this
year, making it the best performer in Africa, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The decision by JPMorgan to include
Nigerian  government bonds  in its GBI-EM indexes indexes was
important in strengthening sentiment toward the naira,  Ecobank
Transnational Inc. (ETI)  analysts led by Paul-Harry Aithnard in Paris
wrote in a Sept. 25 report.  JPMorgan will include Nigeria’s most-traded bonds in its
GBI-EM indexes between Oct. 1 and Dec. 3, Giulia Pellegrini, the
bank’s London-based sub-Saharan Africa economist, wrote in a
Sept. 25 note.  Nigeria sought inclusion into emerging-market indexes to
increase portfolio flows into its  capital markets . Securities
and Exchange Commission Director General Arunma Oteh said in an
interview in October that she was planning to discuss its
inclusion with index providers, such as JPMorgan and Morgan
Stanley.  Inclusion in JPMorgan’s GBI-EM indexes could lure $1.5
billion to the country, the bank predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  