-- Nigerian in Flood Emergency as Farms, Roads Submerged
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-09-27T12:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/nigerian-in-flood-emergency-as-farms-roads-submerged.html
Nigeria ’s biggest river, the Niger,
overflowed its banks after authorities released water from dams,
submerging homes, farmlands and roads.  In central Kogi state, where the Benue River, the second-
biggest, joins the Niger, water levels are still rising, with a
third of its 21 local councils under water, Jacob Edi, a
spokesman for Governor Idris Wada, said today by phone from
Lokoja, the capital. “The situation is devastating and life-
threatening,” he said. “It is clear some communities can’t
return.”  Large swaths of farmland are being lost, threatening the
country’s food security and creating “a national emergency,”
Environment Minister Hadiza Mailafia told reporters yesterday in
Abuja, the capital.  Agriculture contributes more than 40 percent of the gross
domestic product of  Africa ’s top oil producer and employs more
than 60 percent of its population of more than 160 million,
according to the  Central Bank of Nigeria . The floods have cut
off the main highway from Abuja to the south of the country,
including Lagos, the commercial capital, slowing the movement of
goods and people, according to the minister.  Flooding worsened after hydropower dams on the Niger River
opened sluice gates to let out water in order to prevent them
from collapsing under pressure from heavy rains, Anthony
Anuforo, director-general of the Nigerian Meteorological Agency,
told reporters yesterday in Abuja. “It became imperative to
open the dams because of the high water level brought about by
the high-intensity rains.”  At least 104 people have died and 3,800 homes destroyed by
floods across north and central Nigeria, with 150,000 hectares
of farmland washed away in the region that is a major food
growing area in the past two months, said Abdulsalam Muhammed,
an official with the  National Emergency Management Agency , or
NEMA, said yesterday by phone from the city of Jos. About 50,000
people have been displaced from their homes, he said.  Trees, Rooftops  Emergency workers with boats are still rescuing people
trapped on rooftops and trees in central Kogi state, NEMA said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The agency said communities
near the path of the Niger River should evacuate to higher
ground to avoid the floods. The highway south from Abuja was
overtaken by as much as two meters (seven feet) of water near
the city of Lokoja, according to the environment minister.  To reopen road access from Abuja to Lagos and other parts
of the south, another route was constructed to bypass the
flooded areas and cars and trucks can start using it today,
Works and Housing Minister Mike Onolememe said on state-owned
Radio Nigeria.  Crop damage was mitigated because farmers harvested a lot
of them, including rice, corn, millet and sorghum, before the
floods, Salisu Na’inna, director of information at the Ministry
of Agriculture, said yesterday in an interview in Abuja. Some
livestock were washed away and fish ponds along the banks of
rivers are at risk, he said.  Flooding across Nigeria including parts of the cocoa-
producing south is causing “anxiety” among the farmers
concerned their crop may be affected, Robo Adhuze, a spokesman
for the Cocoa Association of Nigeria, which groups farmers,
buyers and processors, said by phone today from the southwestern
city of Akure.  More “high-intensity” rains will probably continue in
central and northern Nigeria through mid-October, and in the
southern part through November, Anuforo of the Meteorological
Office said today on Radio Nigeria. “As the rain is receding,
it will come with violent winds,” he said.  Authorities didn’t take adequate steps to alert downstream
communities that water would be released from the Jebba and
Kainji dams, according to Nnimmo Bassey, executive director of
 Environmental Rights Action , the Nigerian affiliate of Friends
of the Earth.  “The meteorological people have been giving some warnings,
but those warnings hardly get down to people in villages,”
Bassey said by phone today from Benin City, the capital of the
southern Edo state. The government needs to put in place
“permanent infrastructure” and “align water channels” to
avert a re-occurrence, he said.  Environment Minister  Mailafia denied that the government
neglected its responsibility. “What we have done in the past
couple of months is consistently to educate people, calling the
attention of government and individuals to the need to move away
from flood plains,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  