-- Nigerian Cocoa Output Seen by Group Rising 20 Percent in 2012-13
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2012-09-27T12:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/nigerian-cocoa-output-seen-by-group-rising-20-percent-in-2012-13.html
     Sept. 27 (Bloomberg)-- Cocoa output from  Nigeria , the
world’s fourth-biggest producer, may rise by as much as 20
percent in the season that starts on Oct. 1, as new farms begin
production, an industry group said.  Cocoa trees planted four to five years ago in western,
eastern and midwestern regions of Nigeria will begin to bear
fruits in the 2012-13 season and raise the country’s output to
at least 300,000 metric tons from 250,000 tons last year, Robo
Adhuze, spokesman for the Cocoa Association of Nigeria, said by
phone today in Akure in the southwestern state of Ondo.  “In the past five years, Nigeria has done so much to raise
output, and what we are seeing now is the result of that,”
Adhuze said. The government encouraged farmers to expand their
farms, replace old trees and also taught them good practices, he
said. Last year, eight new varieties of cocoa, with shorter
maturity periods and higher yields per hectare, were introduced,
he said.  Ondo state, the biggest producer, is expected to increase
output to 90,000 tons from less than 77,000 tons last year,
Adhuze said, adding production should also rise in Cross River
and Edo.  Nigeria ranks behind the  Ivory Coast ,  Ghana  and  Indonesia 
in cocoa production, according to the  International Cocoa
Organization . Shipments of the beans represent the second-
biggest foreign exchange earner for Nigeria,  Africa ’s leading
oil producer, according to government figures.  Flooding in parts of Nigeria including Kogi, Edo and Cross
River states is causing “anxiety” among the farmers, Adhuze
said. “It means that output of cocoa from these states could be
affected,” he said.  Flooding worsened after gates on hydro electric dams on the
country’s biggest river, the Niger, were opened to prevent them
from collapsing under pressure from “high-intensity rains,”
Anthony Anuforo, director-general of the Nigerian Meteorological
Agency, said yesterday in the capital Abuja.  Nigeria’s cocoa year is divided into two harvests with the
main one beginning in October and ending in January, while the
smaller crop usually begins in March and ends in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  