-- Nike Drops Amid Slowing Demand From China
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-09-28T20:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/nike-futures-orders-trail-estimates-on-weak-china-demand.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sporting-goods company, declined after reporting future orders
that trailed analysts’ estimates as demand sank in China.  Nike  fell  1.1 percent to $94.91 at the close in  New York .
The Beaverton, Oregon-based company’s shares have fallen 1.5
percent this year.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Parker  has been discounting
merchandise in China to clear inventory that wasn’t selling
well, hurting demand for new products. Future orders from China,
excluding currency fluctuations, declined 6 percent, trailing
analysts’ average estimate for a 1.2 percent gain. Total orders
for the Nike brand from September to January advanced 8 percent,
trailing the 10 percent average estimate.  “The futures numbers are what’s most important, and when
you’ve got a negative China number and deceleration in global
future numbers, that’s what’s driving the stock down,” Camilo Lyon, an analyst for Canaccord Genuity Corp. in New York, said
in an interview. The China orders “were worse than anyone
expected.”  The economy in China “appears to be slowing, creating a
short-term impact to any business operating there,” Charles Denson, president of the Nike brand, said yesterday on a
conference call with analysts. He declined to say when results
in  China  would improve.  Profit Drops  Net income in the quarter ended Aug. 31 declined 12 percent
to $567 million, or $1.23 a share, from $645 million, or $1.36,
a year earlier, the company said yesterday in a statement.
Analysts projected $1.13 a share, the average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The profit drop was the second straight
decline after nine straight quarterly gains.  Several companies have had to discount this year as demand
declines in China. There is a significant glut of inventory in
athletic apparel and footwear, said Lyon, who recently spent
time in the region. A year ago, Nike’s orders for China rose 22
percent.  While total revenue rose 9.7 percent to $6.67 billion,
which also topped analysts’ estimates, Nike’s profitability was
hurt by higher costs for labor and materials. Gross margin, or
the percentage of sales left after the cost of goods sold,
narrowed 0.8 percentage point to 43.5 percent from a year
earlier. That marked the seventh straight decline.  “There are some very real pressures in this world, and in
this market, that even a company with the size and
sophistication of Nike can’t avoid,” Lyon said before the
results.  North America  continued to be a bright spot for Nike as
revenue in the region surged 23 percent to $2.71 billion. Orders
rose 13 percent. Analysts projected 14 percent. That strength,
especially in the U.S., has masked slowing growth overseas, Lyon
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  