-- Nokia to Begin Lumia Rollout as Italy Debut Is Scheduled
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-09-27T11:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/nokia-said-to-get-europe-australia-carriers-for-lumia.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finnish phonemaker
attempting a comeback, is set to start rolling out its new Lumia
models, with Italian carriers and Sweden’s largest operator
among the first to disclose a sales debut for the devices.  The handsets, the first Nokia phones using Microsoft
Corp.’s Windows Phone 8 software, will be offered mid-November
in Italy by  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , Vodafone Group Plc, 3 Italia
SpA, and Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA, according to an e-mailed
release from Nokia today.  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  says it will sell the
device from Nov. 12, without adding pricing details. The Lumia
920 will be priced at 599 euros ($771) and the Lumia 820 at 499
euros at the Italian operators.  The rollout may assuage investor concerns that the devices
will miss the crucial year-end holiday shopping season as Nokia
seeks to challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets using  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. Nokia saw its share price slump on
Sept. 5 when it unveiled the Lumia 920 and 820 in New York
without disclosing pricing or carriers for the phones.  Nokia is nearing agreements with carriers and retailers in
Europe and Australia to sell the new Lumias, with some partners
unveiling their plans as early as today, a person with knowledge
of the matter said earlier today.  Shares of Espoo, Finland-based Nokia  rose  2.4 percent to
2.04 euros at 1:42 p.m. Helsinki time. They have lost more than
70 percent since February 2011, when the company said it would
abandon its homegrown software and use the  Windows operating
system  from Microsoft in its smartphones instead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  