-- Obama Works Virginia Base Voters as Romney Pushes Turnout
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-09-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/obama-works-virginia-base-voters-as-romney-pushes-turnout.html
Stella Okeke might have been a lost
vote for  Barack Obama .  The Nigeria-born nurse supported the president in 2008 and
wanted to vote for him again. Yet it took a conversation with an
Obama campaign worker on the doorstep of her Woodbridge,
 Virginia  townhome on Sept. 22 to inform Okeke, 36, that she was
still registered and needed merely to show up on Election Day to
cast her ballot.  That kind of exchange, multiplied by the thousands around
 Prince William  County, may determine whether Obama or Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney  wins the election in the swing state of
Virginia -- and the nation.  “If you win Prince William County, ballgame over,” said
Representative Gerry Connolly, a Virginia Democrat. “It’s a
drive for who goes to vote.”  After all the television ads, campaign rallies and
speeches, strategists on both sides say the election in Prince
William, as in so many competitive counties in battleground
states, will come down to the ground game. The campaign that
best combines sophisticated voter targeting with old-fashioned
door knocking and phone calls may gain as much as a two-
percentage-point advantage -- enough to decide a tight race.  While polls show Obama with an edge over Romney in
Virginia, the president hasn’t recaptured the enthusiasm of his
grassroots success of four years ago. He’ll need to at least
come close to that turnout by supporters to claim victory on
Nov. 6. Romney’s campaign, meanwhile, has updated the Republican
playbook to compete in the rapidly changing state.  Playing Catch-Up  The president has “got a little bit of catch-up work to
do,” said Connolly, whose House district covers parts of Prince
William and Fairfax counties. “I don’t think he’s quite closed
the deal yet.”  Obama in 2008 became the first Democrat to capture Virginia
since former President  Lyndon B. Johnson  in 1964. Obama carried
Prince William County by 16 points, after President  George W. Bush  took it in 2004 with 53 percent of the vote. In 2009, just
one year after Obama’s win, Republican Governor  Bob McDonnell 
beat his Democratic opponent in the county by 18 points.  Prince William and its neighboring exurbs of  Washington  are 
“as purple as the color has ever been in Virginia,” said Quentin 
Kidd, a political scientist at Christopher Newport University in 
 Newport News , Virginia, referring to the color that campaign 
experts commonly assign to areas not loyal to one major party or 
the other.  Prince William’s population increased 4.2 percent between
April 2010 and July 2011, compared to 1.2 percent statewide,
data released this month from the U.S. Census Bureau shows.  Changing Demographics  Hispanics made up 20.5 percent of the county in 2011,
compared to 8.2 percent across the state. Median  household
income  from 2006-2010 outpaced the rest of the state with an
average of $91,098 compared to $61,406, the data showed. The
July unemployment rate in the county, the latest data available,
was 4.9 percent versus 5.9 percent statewide.  The Romney team is borrowing McDonnell’s successful
template and leaning on the Virginia Republican Party to help
implement its voter contact plan. McDonnell targeted minority
voters through mailings and radio advertising in their native
languages.  Romney campaign organizers earlier this month attended a
local Asian festival. They gave an interview to the Korean Times
and handed out Romney bumper stickers with Asian characters.
It’s the “McDonnell playbook on steroids,” said Michael C.
Short, the  Republican National Committee ’s Virginia spokesman.  ‘Flat-Footed’  “Obviously in 2008, we kind of got our clock cleaned here
and kind of got caught flat-footed,” Short said. “We’re just
casting a real wide net in Virginia.”  The former Massachusetts governor’s campaign has 30 offices
around the state. With more than 100 paid staff and thousands of
volunteers, it aims to contact nearly every one of the roughly 6
million voting-age people in Virginia, Short said.  On Sept. 21, the day Obama addressed a crowd of 12,000 in
Woodbridge, the Romney campaign contacted its three millionth
person, Short said.  Twenty-two miles away from where Obama spoke, at Romney’s
Bristow, Virginia field office, about two dozen volunteers were
working the phone lines. The campaign also dispatched volunteers
to events and neighborhoods with “QR Codes” -- short for black
and white “Quick Response” barcodes -- that voters can use to
donate to the campaign or register their support.  Voter Appeal  In the Dominion Country Club neighborhood, Donna Widawski,
52, a retired U.S. Secret Service officer, was going door to
door to talk with voters. Between homes, Widawski stopped a
woman pushing a stroller and asked her to “please consider
voting for Mitt Romney,” handing her a flier touting the
campaign’s messages.  Beyond persuading undecided voters, both campaigns are
trying to ensure their own supporters get out and vote. For
Obama, that means prodding voters from a coalition that is
weighted with women and minorities, including blacks and
Hispanics.  “What is important is the rise of college graduate whites
and the bigger decline in working class whites, who tend to move
Republican,” said  William Frey , senior demographer at the
Washington-based  Brookings Institution .  While McDonnell handily won Prince William County, he did
so with only 35 percent voter turnout. By contrast, the county
had 75 percent turnout in the 2008 presidential race.  Working Neighborhoods  Obama volunteer Marilyn Karp, 71, on Sept. 23 was visiting
more than 40 addresses in a racially diverse townhouse complex
in the Lake Ridge neighborhood of Woodbridge, where she met
Okeke and other voters.  “The winning side is going to have to go down two or three
layers into the electorate and capture the person who otherwise
is a supporter and probably not engaged and if not reached out
to, wouldn’t vote,” Kidd said. “Many Latino voters are those
second or third layers.”  Obama has maintained a presence in the commonwealth since
2008 and has about 50 field offices statewide, with two targeted
to Prince William County.  “The excitement hasn’t reached the pitch it did in 2008,”
said Rick Flaherty, 71, who was in Woodbridge on Sept. 21 to
attend an Obama rally. Still, the rally netted several new
volunteers, who lined up at the Manassas field office the next
day to participate in a lunchtime phone bank session.  Rachel Macedo, 28, provides evidence of the work that lies
ahead for the Obama campaign. She cast her ballot for Obama in
2008, the first time she’d ever voted. This year, she’s not sure
she’ll bother.  “I side more with Obama,” Macedo said, as she took a
break from her job grooming dogs at Dogs Gone Wild in Bristow.
“I just don’t know if I’m going to vote this year. I’m not as
excited as last time.”  So far, she hasn’t been prodded -- either by the
president’s campaign or his rival’s.  “No one’s ever called me,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Woodbridge, Virginia, at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Bristow, Virginia at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  