-- Ohio City Looks to Fracking as Way to Raise Money for Demolition
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-09-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/ohio-city-looks-to-fracking-as-way-to-raise-money-for-demolition.html
Youngstown,  Ohio , needs money to
demolish vacant buildings, so it’s turning to fracking.  The City Council of the northeast Ohio city is debating a
proposal to combat blight by leasing the rights for oil and gas
 drilling under public land. The city has enough money to raze 
only 260 homes, with more than 5,000 other structures vacant 
or ready for demolition, Mayor Charles P. Sammarone said.  Opponents of hydraulic fracturing say the money isn’t worth
the risk of polluting drinking water and the environment.
Sammarone said demolition is a priority because dilapidated
homes are causing people to leave or avoid the city, and raising
taxes isn’t an option. Surrounding cities and private landowners
are already leasing mineral rights, he said.  “We’re not inventing anything here,” Sammarone said in a
telephone interview from Youngstown. “We need money for demo,
and if we don’t get it, then there’s no demo.”  Municipalities and school districts in states including
 Texas , Pennsylvania and  Colorado  have been approving oil and gas
leases to pay for services as horizontal drilling with fracking
opens land for development, said John Krohn, a spokesman for
Energy in Depth, a Washington-based group that represents
drillers.  “Given our national energy needs will increase
significantly, it’s reasonable to assume these arrangements will
continue to increase,” Krohn said in a e-mail.  Municipal finance officers anticipate that revenue will
fall 3.9 percent this year when adjusted for inflation, the
sixth decline in a row, according to a National League of Cities
report released Sept. 13.  Clearing Out  Youngstown faces a deficit of as much as $5 million next
year as it weeds out unneeded housing after its population
declined to about 66,500 from 168,330 in 1950, Sammarone said.
The city has seen the benefits and pitfalls of fracking, a
process that involves injecting chemicals, water and sand
underground to free gas reserves.  A new $650 million mill in Youngstown for  Vallourec SA (VK) ’s
V&M Star is employing 350 workers to produce seamless pipes for
the process. The mill is about two miles (3.2 kilometers) from
an injection well for disposing of fracking wastewater that was
closed after 11 earthquakes shook Youngstown last year.  A U.S. Environmental Protection Agency report in December
2011 linked water contamination to fracking in Pavillion, 
 Wyoming , and a U.S. Geological Survey report released yesterday 
found methane and diesel compounds in a monitoring water well 
there.  Satan’s Leases  The risks are not worth the short-term financial gain, said
Robert Hagan, a Democratic state representative who represents
Youngstown.  “I understand the desperation of cities,” Hagan said in a
telephone interview. “I just don’t think making a deal with
devil is right way to go.”  Opponents will be trying to derail an Oct. 3 vote on an
ordinance authorizing the mayor to seek proposals from drillers,
said Susie Beiersdorfer, a geology instructor at Youngstown
State University who opposes fracking.  It doesn’t make sense to take money from drilling to
improve neighborhoods if the environment is harmed, Beiersdorfer
said.  “If the air and water are polluted, then who’s going to
want to live here?” she said.  Sammarone said drilling can be properly regulated. He
estimated there are about 180 acres that could be leased and, if
the council approves, wants a study to determine how much
municipal property might be eligible.  Drilling Parks  Campbell, a city of 8,179 in fiscal emergency that abuts
Youngstown, leased mineral rights on 167 acres to Houston-based
Hilcorp Energy Co. in June for $5,000 an acre plus 20 percent in
royalties from gas production, Administrator Jack Dill said in a
telephone interview.  The land includes two parks, and Dill said he was surprised
there wasn’t more opposition from residents.  In Barnsville, about 120 miles southwest of Youngstown,
there also was no major protest, Mayor Ron Bischof said. The
village of 4,178 signed a contract Sept. 10 with Denver-based
Antero Resources to lease more than 1,000 acres for $5,700 an
acre plus 20 percent in royalties, he said.  Besides the municipalities, Ohio is exploring leasing
parks, forests and other state land for drilling after the
Legislature approved a bill in June 2011 to allow it.  “It creates jobs here, reduces our dependence on foreign
oil and helps towns and cities meet their budgets without
relying on taxpayer revenues,” said Jerry James, president of
both the Marietta-based Artex Oil Co. and the Ohio Oil and Gas
Association.  Next-Door Neighbor  Fort Worth , Texas, has about 1,480 producing wells inside
city limits, with another 615 permitted or applying, according
to its website. While the city requires wells to be at least 600
feet from homes and other sensitive areas, it has allowed them
as close as 200 feet with a waiver, Bill Begley, a city
spokesman, wrote in an e-mail.  Officials have had to balance the interests of drilling
companies against those of homeowners worried about pollution,
truck traffic and the impact on property values.  Youngstown Councilman John Swierz said the city has no
choice but to seek ways to make up for dwindling state funding
and other resources. Fracking, he said, provides a solution.  “We can do some good for the city,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  