-- Crude Oil Poised for Quarterly Gain as U.S. Spending Increases
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-09-28T12:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/oil-rises-for-a-second-day-in-new-york-on-u-s-economic-outlook.html
Oil headed for the biggest
quarterly gain this year as personal spending in the U.S. rose
in line with forecasts, signaling an economic recovery that may
boost fuel demand.  Futures were little changed after increasing 2.1 percent
yesterday, the most in eight weeks. U.S. household purchases
climbed 0.5 percent last month, up from 0.4 percent in July,
according to Commerce Department data. Oil surged yesterday as
 Spain  pledged to cut its deficit to ease  Europe ’s debt crisis.
Prices erased a 0.9 percent gain today as the dollar rebounded
against the euro.  “Things are looking more positive with Spain, but we are
not out of the woods yet,” said Ole Hansen, head of commodity
strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen, who expects  Brent crude 
to average $105 to $110 a barrel in the fourth quarter. “I
think the rally we are seeing will run out of steam as the
fundamental factors don’t stack up.”  Crude for November delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  traded at $91.68 a barrel, down 17 cents, at 1:40 p.m.
London time. The contract earlier gained as much as 86 cents to
$92.71 a barrel and climbed $1.87 to $91.85 yesterday. Prices
are up 7.9 percent this quarter and down 5 percent this month.  Brent oil for November settlement rose 40 cents to $112.41
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
was at $20.73 a barrel after closing at $20.16 yesterday.  Stockpile Release  The  International Energy Agency  doesn’t see an immediate
need to tap emergency oil stockpiles and views sanctions against
Iranian exports as insufficient cause to trigger using strategic
reserves, Ulrich Benterbusch, the agency’s director for global
 energy policy , said today in an interview in Berlin.  The oil market is well supplied and there’s no scarcity,
according to the Secretary-General of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  OPEC’s spare production capacity “remains at relatively
comfortable levels and total commercial stock levels are
healthy,” Abdalla El-Badri said today in a speech in Berlin.
“It is clear, the market is currently well supplied. Supply and
demand fundamentals point to a stable market. We see no
shortages.”  The organization will curb crude shipments into next month
as demand from China declines and refiners carry out
maintenance, tanker-tracker Oil Movements said yesterday in its
weekly e-mailed report. OPEC will export 23.66 million barrels a
day in the four weeks to Oct. 13, down 1.2 percent from 23.95
million a month earlier, it said.  U.S. Spending  Household purchases in the U.S. rose 0.5 percent last
month, matching the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg and the biggest gain since February, according to data
from the Commerce Department issued in  Washington  today.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government announced
its fifth austerity package to shrink the euro area’s third-
biggest budget deficit. The European Union used 16 percent of
the world’s oil last year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical
Review of World Energy. The U.S. accounted for 21 percent.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s 400,000 barrel-a-day Pernis plant
in the Netherlands is conducting maintenance until November.
Supplies on the U.S. East Coast, including  New York  Harbor, the
delivery point for futures contracts, were the lowest since
October 2008 last week, Energy Department data show.  Crude may decline in New York next week, according to a
Bloomberg survey of analysts. Thirteen of 28 respondents, or 46
percent, forecast crude will decrease through Oct. 5. Ten
analysts, or 36 percent, predicted that futures will gain and
five said there will be little change in prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  