-- Oil Rises Most in Eight Weeks on China Speculation, Spain
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-09-27T19:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/oil-rises-from-eight-week-low-on-china-speculation-spain.html
Oil advanced the most in eight
weeks on the possibility China’s government will bolster
stimulus efforts and as  Spain  approved a 2013 austerity budget.  Futures gained 2.1 percent and equities rose worldwide on
signals China will announce measures to boost the economy.
Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has promised to cut the
deficit by at least 18 billion euros ($23.2 billion) next year.
Oil also increased as gasoline reached a one-month high.  “The crude market is bouncing with equities on speculation
China will take action to improve the economy and on the Spanish
budget announcement, which is being seen as a positive
development,” said Bob Yawger, director of the futures division
at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in  New York .  Crude oil for November delivery rose $1.87 to settle at
$91.85 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the biggest
gain since Aug. 3. The contract fell to $89.98 yesterday, the
lowest settlement since Aug. 2. Prices are down 4.8 percent this
month and up 8.1 percent this quarter.  Brent oil for November settlement increased $1.97, or 1.8
percent, to end the session at $112.01 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark
grade’s premium to West Texas Intermediate crude traded in New
York widened to $20.16.  Chinese stocks surged after Shanghai Securities News said
the government may announce market-boosting measures. The
Shanghai Composite  index (MXWD)  rose 2.6 percent. The MSCI All-Country
World Index climbed 1 percent as of 3:27 p.m. in New York,
rebounding from its biggest drop since July. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  advanced 1 percent to halt a five-day slump.  Reducing Deficits  In Spain, Rajoy’s cabinet approved a new tax on lottery
winnings and a cut in ministries’ spending to shrink the euro
area’s third-biggest budget deficit. The 2013 target is 4.5
percent of gross domestic product compared with a 6.3 percent
goal for this year.  Europe’s debt crisis has reduced economic growth and the
continent’s energy consumption for three years. The crisis that
began in  Greece  has spread to Ireland,  Portugal ,  Italy , Spain
and Cyprus.  “Any diminution in euro-zone debt worries is good for the
market,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics
LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “We are a long
way from an end to the crisis.”  Gasoline rose on concern that refinery shutdowns in the
Atlantic Basin will further reduce supplies on the U.S. East
Coast. Europe’s largest refinery,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s
400,000-barrel-a-day Pernis plant in the Netherlands, is
conducting maintenance until early November. East Coast  supplies 
are at the lowest level in almost four years, the Energy
Department said yesterday.  Gasoline Support  “We’re getting support from motor gasoline,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania . “The fundamental value of crude oil is based on
the supply and demand for products such as gasoline.”  Gasoline for October delivery rose 6.32 cents, or 2.1
percent, to $3.1443 a gallon in New York, the highest settlement
since Aug. 27.  The U.S. grew less than previously forecast in the second
quarter. The economy expanded at a 1.3 percent pace from April
through June after growing at a 2 percent rate in the first
quarter, the Commerce Department said. The revision compared
with a prior estimate of 1.7 percent and the 1.7 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The Chinese and Spanish news was “enough to get us to
shrug off the downward revision in GDP,” Yawger said.  Durable Goods  Another report showed orders placed with American factories
for  durable goods  in August slumped 13 percent, the most since
January 2009. Excluding volatile demand for items such as
airplanes and automobiles, the decline was 1.6 percent.
Applications for  jobless benefits  decreased 26,000 to 359,000 in
the week ended Sept. 22, the lowest level since July, Labor
Department figures showed today.  The U.S. and  China  are the world’s biggest oil-consuming
countries, accounting for a combined 32 percent of world demand,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy. The 27
members of the European Union were responsible for 16 percent of
global oil use in 2011, BP said.  Prices dropped yesterday after the Energy Department report
showed U.S. crude production climbed to the highest level since
January 1997 last week as fuel demand dropped.  Crude output  rose
by 3.7 percent to 6.509 milli1on barrels a day last week. Total
fuel consumption fell 1.1 percent to  18.4 million barrels  a day
in the four weeks ended Sept. 21, the lowest level since April.  ‘Terrible’ Demand  “The demand side of yesterday’s report was terrible,”
said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research at Tradition
Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It looks like the market will
resume moving lower next week and test the $87 area.”  Oil touched a low of $86.92 on Aug. 2.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 387,542
contracts as of 3:28 p.m. Volume totaled 548,727 contracts
yesterday, 3.1 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.56 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  