-- Hollande Struggles to Match Sarkozy Budget-Gap Wins
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-09-27T11:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/hollande-struggles-to-match-sarkozy-budget-gap-wins-euro-credit.html
Few bond investors expect French
President  Francois Hollande  to match Nicolas Sarkozy’s facility
for beating deficit targets.  In the post-recession years of 2010 and 2011, former
President Sarkozy bettered his own budget goals. Hollande, who
has pledged to cut the deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic
product next year from 5.2 percent in 2011, risks ending that
trend. His government unveils its 2013 budget tomorrow.  Plugging a budget hole of more than 30 billion euros ($39
billion) next year against a backdrop of an economy that hasn’t
grown in three quarters and joblessness that’s at a 13-year high
will be a tall order, investors such as Dagmar Dvorak at Baring
Asset Management say. Failure to do so may drive money away from
French debt, which commanded record-low yields under Hollande.  “It will be a tough balancing act for Hollande’s
government,” said Dvorak, a director of fixed-income and
currencies in  London  at BAM, which oversees $50 billion. “More
austerity in this tough environment means lower growth unless
you have a very strong export sector to support you. The
country’s exporters are suffering as well. The country needs to
maintain fiscal discipline to win investors’ support.”  Faced with riskier debt in  Italy  and  Spain  and lower yields
on German securities, investors have ploughed into French bonds.
The yield on French 10-year debt dropped to a record-low of
2.002 percent on Aug. 3 and was at 2.19 percent at 1:28 p.m. in
Paris.  France  has also borrowed at historically low costs in
bond auctions, including at negative yields on short-term debt.  Pulling Back  Standard & Poor’s , which stripped France of its AAA credit
rating on Jan. 13, said this week that declining yields of
government debt in the euro area’s so-called core is partly
explained by the  Swiss National Bank ’s 80 billion euros of
purchases, a claim the central bank calls “unfounded.”  Some of the concerns about France’s fiscal situation are
percolating into debt markets. French bonds handed investors a
0.2 percent loss this month, underperforming their Austrian and
Belgian peers, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the  European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies .  “While we don’t expect French bond yields to go in the
direction of Italian or Spanish bond yields, we are worried
about its fiscal outlook,” Dvorak said. “If France fails to
meet its fiscal target or has to backpedal on some of the
austerity measures the government puts in place to boost growth,
we may reduce holdings further.”  ‘Not Justified’  The premium demanded by investors to hold French 10-year
debt rather than comparable German securities fell to 72 basis
points today from a euro-era high of more than 200 basis points
on Nov. 17, and that’s not warranted, said  Stuart Thomson , a
portfolio manager at Ignis Asset Management in Glasglow, U.K.,
which oversees $110 billion.  “If there’s one country in the core market that we’re
concerned about, it’s France,” said Thomson. “I don’t think
France’s current bond spread to  Germany  is justified. It doesn’t
reflect the economic and fiscal risks. I will be a buyer of
French bonds at a 100 basis-point spread or above. And I call
myself a low-maintenance investor. A high maintenance one would
ask for at least 150 basis points.”  Hollande, who’s targeting a deficit of 4.5 percent of GDP
this year and 3 percent in 2013, is unlikely to meet them,
JPMorgan & Chase Co. says.  “We see this as ambitious,” Alex White and Raphael Brun- Aguerre, JPMorgan analysts, wrote in a report dated Sept. 21.
“The low-growth environment will likely weigh on fiscal
revenues, making the target hard to achieve.” They see budget
gaps of 4.7 percent of GDP in 2012 and 3.3 percent next year.  Hollande’s Challenge  At the end of the last global recession in 2009, France’s
deficit reached a record 7.5 percent of GDP. For the following
year, Sarkozy predicted a budget deficit of 8.5 percent of GDP.
It came in at 7.1 percent. In 2011, he achieved 5.2 percent,
beating his target of 6 percent.  Hollande has consistently said that he expects to meet his
deficit targets. To do that for next year, he pledged 20 billion
euros in tax increases and 10 billion euros in spending cuts.  “Some in the markets take a more favorable view of a skew
towards spending cuts rather than tax hikes,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank
International in London. “With spending cuts you always know
what you are going to save. You never know what you are going to
garner from higher taxes.”  Spending cuts will be hard for the Socialist president.  Labor Unrest  Since returning from his summer holiday six weeks ago,
Hollande promised to shrink the deficit, implement a European
treaty on fiscal discipline and press unions to accept increased
labor flexibility by year end. Over that period, his approval
rating dropped by 11 points to 43 percent, according to an Ifop
poll released this week.  “Hollande is facing the political consequences of having
run against austerity, but asking France to take tough fiscal
medicine,” the JPMorgan analysts wrote.  Rebellious lawmakers in Hollande’s own party oppose the
ratification of the euro area’s deficit-capping fiscal pact and
he faces a call from the CGT union for protests against
austerity on Oct. 9.  As French companies such as PSA Peugeot Citroen SA and Air
France-KLM Group cut thousands of staff amid slowing growth,
unions have been questioning the wisdom of holding to the
deficit target, making labor unrest likely in the months ahead.  Hollande has tried to sell his debt and deficit-cutting
push evoking sovereignty, saying he doesn’t want to be beholden
to the markets. In his televised Bastille Day interview on July
14, he said that “efforts” and “patriotism” are required.  Hollande Credibility  Investors including Rabobank’s McGuire say the diminished
expectations on deficit cuts may not be bad for French bonds.  “If the government chooses to raise the deficit target,
the response from the market might not necessarily be
negative,” he said. “There might be come degree of flexibility
on the part of the market because some investors have firmly
entrenched in their view that austerity measures are self-
defeating. So perhaps a more realistic approach in terms of
budget deficit target that can be achieved in the current growth
environment would not be taken badly.”  Still, failure to meet the targets would put Hollande’s
credibility at risk.  “The success or otherwise of the likely political response
to the budget will provide a good indicator of how much
political capital the government will have to maintain its
adherence to whatever fiscal path it lays out,” wrote JPMorgan
analysts White and Brun-Aguerre.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  