-- Hollande Raises Tax on Rich, Companies to Cut French Debt
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-09-28T11:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/hollande-readies-tax-raising-budget-in-bid-to-cut-french-deficit.html
President  Francois Hollande ’s first
annual budget raised taxes on the rich and big companies and
included a minimum of spending cuts to reduce the deficit.  The 2013 blueprint relies on 20 billion euros ($26 billion)
in tax increases, including a levy of 75 percent on incomes over
1 million euros, and eliminating limits on the  wealth tax .
Hollande aims to reduce spending by 10 billion euros, bringing
the  deficit  to 3 percent of output from 4.5 percent in 2012. The
budget predicts growth of 0.8 percent.  “It’s true we’re asking for an effort of the richest, the
top 10 percent and the top 1 percent in particular,” Prime
Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said today. “Big companies of the
CAC 40 pay less than the small companies and sometimes don’t pay
at all. So we’re asking them for an effort too.”  France  has a financing requirement of 171.1 billion euros
in 2013, down from 182.8 billion euros in 2012, Agence France
Tresor said in a simultaneous release. The debt agency said bond
issuance alone would total 170 billion euros next year, down
from 178 billion euros this year.  The announcement triggered a gain in French 10-year bonds,
with the yield falling three basis points to 2.18 percent.
French borrowing costs have tumbled since Hollande took office
in May. Still, with growth stalled and unemployment at a 13-year
high, bond-market quiescence is partly hiding the scale of the
challenge facing Europe’s second-largest economy, investors and
economists say.  ‘Big Test’  “This is the first big test of investor sentiment,” said
Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
 London . “For the past four months the bond markets have given
the Socialist government a free pass.”  The yield on French 10-year debt dropped to a record-low of
2 percent on Aug. 3 and France also sold shorter-term notes at
negative yields for the first time in July. Today’s budget
predicts an average 10-year yield of 2.9 percent next year.  The premium demanded by investors to hold French 10-year
debt rather than German bunds has fallen to about 75 basis
points from a euro-era high of more than 200 basis points on
Nov. 17, when then-President  Nicolas Sarkozy  was fighting
concern about the viability of French banks.  Much of the improvement has rested on Hollande’s commitment
-- repeated every week by himself or his ministers -- to reduce
the budget shortfall to 3 percent of gross domestic product next
year.  Deficit Commitment  The figure, made sacrosanct by  Europe ’s growth and
stability pact because it allows a growing economy to reduce its
debt burden, puts France in the middle of its peer group.
 Germany  expects its budget to be close to balance while Italy
projects a shortfall of 1.8 percent next year.  Spain  said yesterday it expects a 2013 shortfall of 4.5
percent. The U.S. and U.K. will have deficits of 6.3 percent and
6.6 percent, according to the International Monetary Fund’s
April forecasts.  Hollande has repeatedly said he wants to meet the target to
keep borrowing costs low and maintain France’s independence at a
time when the European Union and the IMF impose conditions on
aid recipients such as Greece and  Portugal .  “I don’t want France to be a prisoner of its debt,”
Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said Sept. 16. “It’s a
question of France’s credibility. We’ll meet our commitments.”  Every 0.1 percentage point increase in French yields costs
200 million euros, he said.  German Counterweight  Hollande, whose has campaigned to shift Europe’s crisis-
fighting focus to growth from austerity, wants to remain a
credible counterweight to Germany, according to Socialist
lawmaker Karine Berger.  Meeting the targets “is the only way to keep equality with
Germany,” Berger said this week in an interview in Paris.
“France’s weight at the table in Europe depends on Hollande
making the growth case not for himself, but for others.”  The risk is that piling taxes onto an economy that has
barely grown in five quarters will push the nation into a
recession that erodes revenue collection.  France’s economy has failed to grow in four of the past
five quarters. In the third quarter of last year, the only one
to show an advance, the gain was 0.3 percent. Hollande’s
government currently predicts growth of 0.8 percent next year.  Meanwhile, taxation has been rising. The increases
announced today come after about 7 billion euros added in July
and others implemented by Sarkozy’s government. Today’s budget
also includes a new tax rate of 45 percent on incomes above
150,000 euros.  Spending Cuts  The 10 billion euros in spending being eliminated include a
reduction in operating costs by 2.8 billion euros and the
slashing of 1.2 billion euros of investment.  Ludovic Subran, chief economist at credit insurer Euler
Hermes, said the government would be bolder to allow a deficit
of 3.7 percent to preserve growth while implementing labor-
market reforms to boost competitiveness and investment.  “The 3 percent target is not possible, I don’t believe
they’ll make it,” Subran told journalists yesterday in Paris.
“France has a window of opportunity to act on competitiveness,
but it’s short.”  Hollande has to juggle pressure from the  bond market  and
Germany with the demands of his base. His approval rating has
dropped 11 points in the past month to 43 percent, according to
an Ifop poll released this week.  “The French government needs to walk a fine line between
its fiscal constraints and the domestic and European political
pressures it faces,” JPMorgan Chase Inc. economists Alex White
and Raphael Brun-Aguerre said in a note to clients. “We see
President Hollande’s political commitments to the Socialist
Party base weighing on the likelihood of major structural reform
and think there is a chance that the budget proposal will fail
to deliver a credible path for fiscal consolidation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  