-- Money-Market Indicators Suggest Dollar Funding Stresses Easing
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-09-27T14:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/money-market-indicators-suggest-dollar-funding-stresses-easing.html
Money-market forward indicators
suggest the level of stress in the short term dollar-funding
market is easing.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  fell  for a 26th consecutive day, according to the
British Bankers’ Association. That’s the longest streak since
August 2010. The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks reluctance
to lend, was unchanged at 22.2 basis points.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the  Federal Reserve ’s effective funds rate will average
for the term of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set
in a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, narrowed to 24 basis points from 25 basis
points yesterday, according to the second rolling three month
contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, narrowed 15.5 basis points from 16 basis points. The gap
is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector
credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for
dollar Libor. The spread touched 11.25 basis points on Sept. 14,
the narrowest since March 2010.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
fell $18.1 billion to $990.1 billion in the week ended Sept. 26,
according to Fed data. That was the lowest level since July.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market was little changed. The three-month cross-
currency basis swap was 26.8 basis points below Euribor.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, was little
changed. The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another
held at 13.5 basis points.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  