-- Monti Says ECB Conditions, IMF Role Hinder Bond Requests
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-09-28T14:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/monti-says-ecb-conditions-imf-role-hinder-bond-requests.html
The European Central Bank should
not impose extra economic conditions on nations using its bond-
buying mechanism, and the  International Monetary Fund  shouldn’t
have an oversight role, said Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti.  Countries such as  Italy  and Spain are reluctant to request
the bond buying they championed because of uncertainty about
what conditions the central bank would seek to impose, he said.
The program is only available to countries that are already
taming public finances and conditions should not go beyond
European Union recommendations made in June, Monti said.  Oversight should be limited to establishing “checks so the
countries continue to behave in that positive way,” Monti said
in an interview with  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television
yesterday in New York. “If this is the conditionality that will
be finally delivered, should a country be in a market situation
suggesting its use, there would be nothing dishonorable.”  The yield on Italy’s benchmark 10-year bond has fallen more
than 120 basis points since Aug. 2 when ECB President Mario Draghi first said the bank was prepared to act in tandem with
the EU to attack high borrowing costs by buying bonds of
distressed euro-area nations. The rally eased after Sept. 6 when
Draghi released details of the plan and said the bank would
impose strict conditionality and seek IMF participation in
overseeing the plan.  Define Conditions  Monti said “it’s not necessary” for the IMF to be
involved, and the ECB and the EU need to move quickly to define
the conditions that recipient nations should expect.  “I believe that should be really kept to a minimum,
because there is no reason to delay something that was already
rather well defined in June by the European Council,” he said.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield is hovering near 6 percent and
the government announced yesterday a fifth austerity package
that may be a move to head off tougher conditions demanded as
part of a bond-buying program. Monti said that he didn’t know
whether Spain making a request for international aid would help
bring down Italian yields or make the country more vulnerable.
“We are in unchartered territory,” he said.  The terms and conditions of the joint ECB-EU bond buying
plan will likely be “at the very top of the agenda” when
European leaders meet in Brussels on Oct. 18-19, said Michael
Derks, chief strategist at FxPro Group Ltd. in  London .  “It’s going to be fiercely debated,” Derks said. “We can
expect that this next summit will not go well at all.”  Declaring Victory  Monti is coming under pressure from within his own
coalition as the country prepares for elections. The premier,
whose diplomacy at the June 28 European summit in Brussels
helped set the groundwork for the ECB program, had his crisis-
fighting leadership questioned yesterday by Former Italian Prime
Minister Silvio Berlusconi.  “Monti went to Brussels, and he returned telling all the
newspapers he won,” Berlusconi said, citing an agreement among
EU leaders to expand their use of the European Stability
Mechanism rescue fund. “But the fund’s capital is only 500
billion euros” ($650 billion), which is “nothing compared with
the size of the public debt in  Europe .”  Under Draghi’s bond-buying plan, the ECB will put its
resources next to the ESM’s funds.  Draghi’s Plan  Italian yields have fallen about 200 basis points since
Monti was appointed to lead a government of non-politicians
after the resignation of Berlusconi in November. In less than a
year he has overhauled the pension system, revamped labor
markets, cracked down on tax evasion and implemented 20 billion
euros of austerity measures that pushed Italy deeper into its
fourth recession since 2001. The cuts have left the country on
track to bring its deficit within the EU limit this year.  The premier is rushing to implement those reforms before
the elections, due by April. Monti said he won’t run as he has
already been appointed as a lifetime senator, and he has no
political plans. He still left the door open to second term.  “All I am saying is, I will be a senator -- should there
be any special circumstance where the political forces would
believe that there might be a need for my service, I would
consider it,” Monti said.  Public Support  Monti’s approval rating rose 1 percentage point to 52
percent of voters this month, according to a Sept. 17 poll by
IPR Marketing. That compares with a low of 46 percent in June
and a high of 59 percent in February. An eventual second Monti
term was backed by 81 percent of investors and business leaders,
including at least 40 chief executive officers, who took part in
a Sole 24 Ore Radiocor survey this month.  “It would be a step forward for the country,”  Fiat SpA (F) 
Chief Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne said to reporters in
Paris today. “It would add credibility and remove uncertainty.
There are no alternatives, given his abilities.”  Monti didn’t think a second term would be likely.  “I am very confident that elections would bring about a
political majority large enough with a political leader that can
govern the country,” he said.  Italy’s two biggest political parties, which agreed in
November to support Monti’s administration, are resuming their
rivalry as campaigning begins. The Democratic Party, led by Pier Luigi Bersani, and Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party are
vying to win enough votes to form a government.  “The rigor and credibility Monti provided can’t be turned
back on,” Bersani said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Davis in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  