-- Monti Says He’d Consider Serving Another Term After Elections
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-09-27T19:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/monti-says-he-d-consider-serving-another-term-after-elections.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
said he remains available to serve another term after elections
due in April should there “be a need for my service.”  Monti, who has headed an unelected government since
November, said he won’t run as a candidate as he is already a
lifetime member of the Senate.  “All I am saying is I will be a senator -- should there be
any special circumstance where the political forces would
believe that there might be a need for my service, I would
consider it,” Monti said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s  Erik Schatzker . Monti said he didn’t have any
specific political plans.  “I want the international community and the markets to
know that I would still be there should there be a need,” he
said.  Monti’s availability to extend his leadership marks a
departure from previous statements in which he downplayed the
possibility of a second term. The experience of a caretaker
government, he said on Sept. 10, “is definitely episodic,
transitory and limited in time.” Italian bond yields fell after
Monti’s comments today.  Buying Insurance  “Monti wants to buy some insurance against the possibility
market tensions intensify very significantly again,” said
 Silvio Peruzzo , European economist at Nomura International Plc.
“He won’t likely run for prime minister but he would stand
ready to get appointed by political parties should that be
required by market conditions and political stalemate.”  Monti said that he was “confident the election would bring
about a political majority large enough with a political leader
that can govern the country.”  Opinion polls indicate that may not be the case, with
recent surveys signaling no party would win a working majority.
Monti remains the country’s most popular political leader.  “We would need to see a hung parliament and, or,  Italy 
under serious market pressure” for Monti to be offered a second
term, said Mujtaba Rahman, an analyst at Eurasia Group in  New
York . “Otherwise, a second Monti term remains unlikely.”  Italian 10-year bond yields declined 9 basis points to 5.12
percent today, narrowing the difference with similar maturity
German debt to 366 basis points. When Monti took over after the
resignation of  Silvio Berlusconi  in November, that yield topped
7 percent.  Monti’s Popularity  Monti’s approval rating rose 1 percentage point to 52
percent of voters this month, according to a Sept. 17 poll by
IPR Marketing. That compares with a low of 46 percent in June
and a high of 59 percent in February. An eventual second Monti
term was backed by 81 percent of investors and business leaders,
including at least 40 chief executive officers, who took part in
a Sole 24 Ore Radiocor survey this month.  Italy’s two biggest political parties, which agreed in
November to support Monti’s administration, are resuming their
rivalry as the country prepares for elections. The  Democratic
Party , led by Pier Luigi Bersani, and former Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party are vying to win
enough votes to form a government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  