-- South Africa’s Credit Rating Cut Amid Mining Strikes
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-09-27T17:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/moody-s-cuts-south-africa-s-sovereign-credit-rating-by-one-level.html
South Africa ’s credit rating was
cut by Moody’s Investors Service because of the government’s
inability to deal with economic and political challenges amid
the worst mining violence since the end of apartheid.  The rating was lowered by one level to Baa1, with the
outlook remaining negative, Moody’s said in an e-mailed
statement today. That puts South  Africa  in line with Mexico,
Russia and Thailand. Moody’s rates South African debt at the
third-lowest investment-grade level, the same as  Fitch Ratings 
and  Standard & Poor’s .  “The revision reflects Moody’s view of the South African
authorities’ reduced capacity to handle the current political
and economic situation and to implement effective strategies
that could place the economy on a path to faster and more
inclusive growth,” the ratings company said in a statement.  The downgrade comes after six weeks of labor unrest that’s
left at least 46 people dead and shut mines owned by  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ,
 Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU)  Growth
in Africa’s biggest economy is also under pressure as a debt
crisis in  Europe  cuts export demand from a region that buys
about a third of South Africa’s manufactured goods.  Investor Concerns  Recent events have heightened investors’ concerns of
“socio-economic challenges, in particular the high  unemployment
rate ,” Kristin Lindow, Moody’s sovereign analyst, said in a
phone interview from  New York . “The government has a moderate
level of institutional capacity to deal with the pressures.”  She declined to say why the downgrade was made before the
Oct. 24 medium-term budget or comment on the nature of its
discussions with the government.  The rand erased today’s gains, dropping as much as 0.6
percent against the dollar to 8.2849 after Moody’s statement.
The currency was trading at 8.2197 as of 7:25 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  “President  Jacob Zuma  needs to take charge of the
country’s economic direction,” Thabi Leoka, head of economic
research at Standard Bank Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest lender,
said in a phone interview from Johannesburg. “There hasn’t been
much in terms of leadership, especially in terms of economic
development.”  Slower Growth  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  is set to lower his growth
forecasts next month. In February, he predicted the economy will
expand 2.7 percent, the slowest pace since a 2009 recession. The
government estimates it needs annual expansion of 7 percent in
order to meet a goal of reducing the jobless rate to 14 percent
by 2020. The  unemployment rate  of 24.9 percent is the highest of
more than 60 nations tracked by Bloomberg  Moody’s lowered its forecast for this year’s economic
growth to 2.5 percent from 2.9 percent and cut the projection
for 2013 to 3.3 percent from 4 percent, Lindow said.  The government’s lack of fiscal room to respond to slower
economic growth and social pressures is another reason for the
downgrade, Moody’s said. Gordhan had pledged in his February
budget to narrow the deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic
product in the year through March 2015 from an estimated 4.6
percent this year.  Radical Shift  South Africa is addressing all of the reasons given by
Moody’s for the downgrade in various government programs, the
National Treasury said in an e-mailed statement. The government
is “committed” to raising the economy’s growth potential and
competitiveness through infrastructure spending, reducing the
deficit and investing in education, it said.  Plans by the ruling  African National Congress  for a
“radical shift” in policy to address joblessness and poverty
may mean an increase in state intervention in the economy,
undermining the growth outlook, Lindow said.  “To the extent that will deter foreign inflows, it could
impact on the growth potential,” she said.  Zuma said at the ANC’s policy conference in June the party
is pushing for “more radical policies and decisive action to
achieve the change we envisage.” He didn’t specify the measures
that will be taken.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  