-- Orders for U.S. Durable Goods Probably Slumped on Airplanes
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-09-27T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-probably-slumped-on-airplanes.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods
probably plunged in August, reflecting a slump in demand for
aircraft and slowing business investment, economists said before
a report today.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years
decreased 5 percent, the most since January 2009, after surging
4.1 percent in July, according to the median  forecast  of 79
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A gain in orders for capital
equipment such as machinery was probably not large enough to
make up for the prior month’s fall, the data may also show.  Manufacturing, once a pillar of the economic recovery, has
cooled, hurting companies like  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  as concern about
the fiscal cliff of tax increases and government spending cuts
that may take effect next year causes businesses to pull back.
Slowing growth from  Europe  to  China  is also putting a dent in
exports, another headwind for American factories.  The figures may reflect “cautious spending by businesses
in response to signs of slowing global growth and the unsettled
budget situation in the U.S.,”  Michael Moran , chief economist
at Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc. in  New York , said in a
note to clients.  The Commerce Department’s durable-goods report is due at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from a decline of 9.4 percent to a 4 percent increase.  Civilian aircraft bookings, which are often volatile,
slumped last month after a surge in July.  Boeing Co. (BA) , the
largest U.S. aircraft maker, received an order for a single
plane in August, down from 260 the prior month.  Business Investment  The underlying details of the report may help show the
extent of the manufacturing slowdown. Bookings for non-defense
capital goods excluding aircraft, considered a proxy for future
business investment in items such as computers, engines and
communications gear, rose 0.7 percent after dropping 4 percent
in July and 2.7 percent in June, according to the  survey median .  Caterpillar, the world’s biggest construction and mining
equipment maker, this week cut its forecast for 2015 earnings
after commodity producers reduced  capital expenditures . While a
global recession remains possible, Caterpillar is forecasting
moderate and “anemic” growth through 2015, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said in a presentation to
analysts on Sept. 24.  “We are in no way thinking we’re going to see a recession
in 2013,” Oberhelman said. “Europe’s in recession today,
probably going be a while to dig out.”  Fewer Exports  Exports dropped 1 percent in July as American companies
shipped fewer automobiles, metals and  consumer goods  abroad,
according to figures from the Commerce Department issued earlier
this month.  A separate report from the Commerce Department today may
show the U.S. is also suffering from a slowdown in business
investment. The economy expanded at 1.7 percent annual rate in
the second quarter, down from 2 percent in the first three
months of the year, economists project revised figures will
show. Data issued last month showed corporate spending on
equipment and software rose at a 4.7 percent pace from April
through June after expanding 5.4 percent in the first quarter.  Jabil Circuit Inc. (JBL)  forecast fiscal first-quarter sales that
fell short of analysts’ estimates on weaker demand, the  St.
Petersburg , Florida-based electronics supplier said Sept. 25 in
a statement.  “Demand remained weak in most of our business segments,”
Chief Executive Officer  Timothy Main  said in the statement.  To boost growth, the  Federal Reserve  this month said it
would keep its target interest rate near zero until at least
mid-2015 and began a third round of asset purchases, buying $40
billion in mortgage bonds a month until the labor market
improves.  Another report today will show the number 375,000 people
filed  claims  for jobless benefits last week, little changed from
382,000 in the previous period, according to the median forecast
of economists surveyed ahead of Labor Department data.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  