-- Morgan Stanley Sees Sales Surge Fueling Worst Month: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-09-27T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/morgan-stanley-sees-sales-surge-fueling-worst-month-muni-credit.html
The $3.7 trillion municipal-bond
market is heading for its worst monthly performance since June.
If the past decade is any guide, October may be even worse.  Munis on average have lost 0.41 percent in October since
2001, the biggest decline for any month, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show. This month, local-government bonds have
gained about 0.21 percent, the least since they lost 0.07
percent in June.  With muni mutual funds adding the fewest assets since April
and localities issuing the most debt in three months, that trend
is poised to continue, said  John Dillon , chief municipal-bond
strategist at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney in Purchase, New York.
States and cities that end their fiscal years June 30 tend to
wait a few months before coming to market, which may account for
the sales surge, he said.  “We are on the tail end of robust demand, and we are at
the front end of a step-up in supply,” said Dillon, whose
company oversees more than $150 billion in local debt. “There’s
this supply-demand imbalance that’s opposite what you had in
June, July and August. It’s a seasonal trend reversal.”  The tax-exempt market has returned 6.2 percent this year as
investors sought a haven from  Europe ’s debt crisis. The gain is
more than triple that of Treasuries, which have returned 2
percent, Bank of America data show. That’s the biggest
differential for the period since 2009.  October Flood  In the three months beginning July 1, the muni market has
returned about 2 percent, the data show. That’s the seventh-
straight quarter of gains, the longest stretch since 2001.  The rally is poised to pause in October, the month with the
most local-government sales for the past three years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The New York State Dormitory
Authority and  Kansas State Department of Transportation  are
among issuers planning deals next month, Bloomberg data show.  The jump in supply caused yields on top-rated general-
obligation bonds, which move inversely to prices, to  rise  in
eight of the past 10 Octobers, Bloomberg data show. Such
predictable patterns cause buyers to wait to invest, said  Peter Hayes , head of muni bonds at New York-based BlackRock Inc., the
world’s biggest money manager.  “If you look historically at price performance in October,
you can see the market exhibits some seasonal weakness,” said
Hayes, whose company oversees about $106 billion of munis. “If
you have cash and bonds coming due, you just sit on it a little
bit longer and wait for the market to adjust.”  Fund Flows  That mindset may be behind the slowing of cash flowing into
municipal-bond mutual funds. They added about $256 million in
assets during the week ended Sept. 19, the fewest since April,
Lipper US Fund Flows data show. Inflows this year total $23
billion, the most since 2009.  The drop in demand comes as issuers are selling $9.3
billion this week, the most in three months, Bloomberg data
show. In the week ended Sept. 21, municipalities issued $9.1
billion of debt.  Municipalities have sold about  $257.5 billion  in debt this
year, close to the $258 billion issued in all of 2011, Bloomberg
data show. About 51 percent has been to retire previously issued
debt, which has helped create “net negative” supply, or when
cash to investors from redemptions and refunding exceeds sales.  That phenomenon will reverse in September and October, when
new debt may exceed maturing securities and bond calls by about
$27 billion, the most for a two-month period since December
2010, according to Citigroup Inc. data.  Tax Exemption  The  U.S. presidential election  and potential changes to the
municipal-bond  tax exemption  may heighten the trend of
localities issuing debt next month, Dillon said. In October
2010, three months before the expiration of the Build America
Bonds program, states and cities sold $54 billion, the most
since at least 2003 and more than any month since.  Muni yields heading into October are hovering near record
lows. The interest rate on 10-year benchmark AAA munis was 1.76
percent yesterday. It fell to 1.63 percent on July 27, the
lowest since at least January 2009, Bloomberg data show.  The  yield  on that debt rose 0.28 percentage point in
October 2011. That was the biggest jump since October 2009, when
 interest rates  rose 0.49 percentage point, Bloomberg data show.  Last year, the interest rate plunged 0.62 percentage point
in November and December, sending rates near the lowest since
 Lyndon Johnson  was president.  “Yields have fallen awfully far and awfully fast,” Hayes
said. “Any time they rise, it does create a better opportunity,
and that’s what we’re looking forward to.”  Following are pending sales:  MINNESOTA OFFICE OF HIGHER EDUCATION is set to issue $375
million of revenue debt as soon as next week, according to the
preliminary official statement.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the
bonds AA-, fourth-highest. (Added Sept. 27)  NORTH TEXAS TOLLWAY AUTHORITY plans to sell about $136
million in revenue bonds as soon as next week for refunding,
according to an offering document. Moody’s Investors Service
rates the debt A2, sixth-highest. (Added Sept. 27)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  