-- Lost Art of Haggling a Casualty of Retail Modernization
-- B y   W e n d y   W o l o s o n
-- 2012-09-27T19:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/lost-art-of-haggling-a-casualty-of-retail-modernization.html
Unless you find yourself at a
flea market, rummage sale or some other place where second-
hand goods are exchanged, you probably don’t haggle. Few of
us would consider dickering about the price of goods in
retail establishments, and bargaining is certainly out of
the question at chain stores.  This wasn’t always so. Nineteenth-century customers
haggled and bartered over just about everything, managing
to bring order to a seemingly chaotic commercial system.
Customers lacking hard currency (a common problem)
routinely exchanged eggs, butter or even services for dry
goods as disparate as flour and pieces of china. The price
of goods also depended on how one was paying -- with cash
or on credit -- and whether one had a favorable
relationship with a particular store clerk.  But bartering and haggling, especially in urban areas,
began to lose favor with the rise of so-called one-price
(or “fixed-price”) stores in the 1830s and 1840s. “One
price” didn’t mean the same price for the entirety of a
store’s stock, as with today’s dollar stores, but rather
that each item was tagged with a fixed price and sold for
cash, not on credit. Many retailers came to realize that
they could sell a greater number of goods by eliminating
the vagaries of haggling.  ‘For the Million’  Ground-breaking dry goods retailer A.T. Stewart,
hoping “to do business for the million,” popularized the
one-price system at his Marble Palace in  New York , starting
in 1846. But shopkeepers had been touting the concept since
at least the late 1830s, no doubt motivated by the Panic of
1837 and their need to sell goods as cheaply and
efficiently as possible.  They also found that the one-price system was
something they could brag about in their advertising.
Daniels & Kimball, a dry-goods retailer in  New Hampshire ,
announced the opening of a one-price store in 1838,
offering not only a variety of textiles and ready-made
articles but also desirable imported goods at prices that
were “(to say the least) cheap as the cheapest.” In
Charleston,  South Carolina , storekeeper C.G. Ketchum
advertised “a general Assortment of Seasonable Goods” to be
sold “on the most favorable terms” at his one-price store
in 1841.  Still, Americans were slow to embrace the fixed-price
system, even though buyers and sellers alike agreed that
haggling was highly fraught and engendered distrust and
anxiety. Merchants described being repeatedly “beaten down”
by aggressive customers who aimed to buy as cheaply as
possible, regardless of an item’s legitimate worth. If they
discounted goods too much, sellers also feared it
constituted a “confession of fraud,” an acknowledgment that
they had marked prices up exorbitantly in the first place.
Buyers often felt like victims of sharp clerks with well-
honed bargaining skills, and thought they too often
overpaid.  Fixed-price advocates (typically owners of one-price
stores) argued that this new system enabled consumers to
better comparison shop, because they knew how much
competing stores were charging for similar items and could
“ascertain and judge of these matters for themselves.” One-
price stores were also touted as being more egalitarian,
with the same price offered whether buyers were, in the
words of an 1840 issue of the Zion’s Herald, “shrewd and
brow beating customers,” “easy, confiding, or ignorant,” or
even “cunning in the tricks of the trade.”  Business Benefits  Retailers instituting one-price systems insisted it
was for the benefit of their customers. But it also made
great business sense. By eliminating haggling, store owners
traded the potential of  larger profits  on fewer sales for
smaller profits on many more sales: By rapidly turning over
stock, seemingly meager profits quickly added up.  “To the seller,” explained G.W. Warren, owner of a
one-price store in  Boston , “greater freedom of action is
acquired, and occupies much less time to effect sales. The
same amount of goods is sold in a half or two-thirds of the
time, and by a less number of persons -- a great saving of
expense.” Or, as Chicago dry-goods store owner Francis
Clark more succinctly put it in 1846, “Large Sales and
Small Profits.”  Perhaps most important, one-price stores let merchants
hire unskilled workers who required no knowledge about the
stock on hand or bargaining skills to make a sale.
Previously, store clerks (mostly men) had been highly
skilled in the arts of persuasion, knowing exactly how to
pitch their goods to customers to arrive at a favorable
price. Due to significant socio-economic shifts --
including the second industrial revolution, which produced
a greater number of affordable  consumer goods ; the spread
of department stores throughout the country; and the
growing acceptance of women in the workplace -- merchants
came to rely on unskilled and primarily female labor in the
following decades.  By the end of the 19th century, fixed-price stores
were the norm rather than the exception. Bartering and
haggling remained in rural pockets of the country well into
the 20th century, but today the fixed price has become such
an integral part of retailing that, outside of flea markets
and car dealers, the idea of negotiating a price seems
almost absurd.  (Wendy Woloson is an independent scholar and
consulting historian. Her most recent book is “In Hock:
Pawning in America from the Revolution to the Great
Depression.” The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this article: Wendy Woloson  at
 wendy@repositoryofusefulknowledge.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 