-- Japan’s Olympic Dreams and Economic Reality
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-09-27T21:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/how-olympic-games-can-do-world-some-economic-good.html
Tokyo ’s mercurial governor,
Shintaro Ishihara, gives new meaning to playing the sympathy
card.  In his dogged pursuit of staging the Olympics, and in his
despair at being passed over for the 2016 games, Ishihara got
desperate: He tapped into the outpouring of grief after last
year’s record earthquake. His pitch for 2020, dubbed the
“Olympics for Japan’s Revival,” became an appeal for pity.  That gambit may be in vain given Ishihara’s role in
bringing Japan and China to the brink of war. The Olympic spirit
was nowhere to be found as the 79-year-old nationalist proposed
buying the Senkaku Islands, which China also claims, from a
private owner. The payback should be obvious: Expect  China  to
use its influence in  Africa  and developing  Asia  to torpedo
Tokyo’s Olympic bid.  Some good might come of all this. Why not switch the locale
of Tokyo’s 2020 bid to the northeast Tohoku region of Japan laid
to waste by the earthquake and subsequent tsunami?  Talk about a win-win. The  International Olympic Committee 
has a gaping credibility problem. Sure, the London games were
transcendent, though that was the U.K.’s doing. The IOC still
seems as self-important, commercialized and corrupt as ever. Its
complicity with China in censoring media coverage at the 2008
Beijing games remains a stain, as do the bribery scandals over
the years.  Tohoku Games  A Tohoku Olympics would yield the infrastructure boom most
of the region desperately needs. Japan’s bureaucratic and
indecisive central government has proven ill-equipped for the
task of rebuilding the towns and villages wiped out on March 11,
2011. The disaster left almost 19,000 dead or missing and forced
cartographers to redraw maps of Japan’s northeast coastline.  It is time for a change in tack, and Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  could be the main beneficiary. His  Democratic
Party  of Japan may soon lose power after just three years. To
cement a place in history, Noda should push to let Tohoku take
Tokyo’s place.  “It would be good for the image of the IOC, good for Noda
and the DPJ,” says Robert Whiting, the author of several books
about sports and organized crime in Japan. “If Noda could
conflate the cost of holding the Tohoku games, which would be in
the range of several billion dollars, with an increase in the
commodity tax, I think you’d have a spike in public approval.”  OK, so this is a long shot. Switching the site of Tokyo’s 
bid  would happen over Ishihara’s dead body. Nothing is more
important to him than getting the Olympics back to Tokyo for the
first time since 1964. And it would run afoul of the IOC’s
rulebook that bars Japan from tweaking its bid.  Finally, even the most Herculean of efforts might not be
enough to build all of the facilities Tohoku would need in time.
The answer is to base the Olympic stadium in Tohoku and enough
structures to host a large number of events and then put some
venues in neighboring areas, including Tokyo.  The goal should be clear: This is a part of the developed
world that needs a major-league stimulus. Now I’m not
denigrating the other two contenders --  Istanbul  and  Madrid .
Holding the games in  Turkey  would be a first for the Muslim
world;  Spain , the euro zone’s fourth-biggest economy, needs a
serious pick-me-up. Tokyo, meanwhile, has two distinct problems:
residents don’t want the games and the 2018 Winter Olympics will
be in neighboring  South Korea .  Compelling Pitch  Staging the Olympics in  East Asia  so soon after  South Korea 
requires an especially compelling pitch. Hence the appeal of
Tohoku prefectures such as Fukushima, Iwate and Miyagi, all of
which are in dire need of money and inhabitants. Japanese
Olympic Committee President  Tsunekazu Takeda  says games held in
Tokyo would generate about $37 billion of commerce and create
150,000 jobs.  Tohoku could use that boost. Careful planning is needed to
see that sports facilities will be used after the Olympics, and
to ensure transparent efforts clear away the last traces of
radiation near the damaged Fukushima nuclear reactors. Why not
ask architectural rock star  Frank Gehry  to bring the “ Bilbao
Effect ” to rural Japan?  “Japan doesn’t get much attention any longer,” says
Martin Roll, chief executive officer of Singapore-based
consulting firm VentureRepublic. “Bringing the games to Japan
would be an unparalleled opportunity for the Japan brand, and
despite the hefty price tag around it, it may help to boost
awareness and interest in Japan.”  It would bring a sense of urgency, too. The process of
doling out reconstruction funds has been slow, unfocused and
ineffectual. Hosting the games would change everything.  The IOC’s rules shouldn’t be a distraction. In about six
months, Olympic officials will study proposed 2020 sites and IOC
members will cast their votes a year from now. Let’s appeal to
the IOC to make an exception for the good of  Japan , even
humanity. If the IOC won’t budge, Japan can withdraw its bid and
try again with Tohoku 2024.  Tokyo doesn’t need the games. Tohoku, a place stripped of
the veneer of civilization, could use a dose of Olympic spirit.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  