-- P&G Confirms Meeting With Ackman
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-09-27T20:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/p-g-confirms-meeting-with-ackman.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  met with
activist investor  Bill Ackman  this month and said it supports
Chief Executive Officer Bob McDonald and his plan to turn around
the world’s biggest consumer-products maker.  The company met with Ackman on Sept. 4, Jennifer Chelune, a
P&G spokeswoman, said today in a telephone interview. Ackman is
seeking to replace McDonald and separate the chairman and CEO
roles, a person familiar with the matter said.  McDonald has been under pressure from Ackman, whose
Pershing Square Capital Management LP took a $1.8 billion stake
in P&G in July. The CEO is working to cut $10 billion in costs
by 2016 and reverse market-share declines in such key categories
as U.S. detergents.  Lead director Jim McNerney said today in a statement
forwarded by Chelune that he and the rest of the board support
the company’s restructuring plan, “which appears to be off to a
good start.” The directors will monitor the plan to ensure it
is working, he said.  “The board also wholeheartedly supports Bob McDonald as he
leads its implementation,” McNerney said.  Ackman presented McDonald with a 75-page list of complaints
about his performance and sought to convince McNerney and
 Kenneth Chenault , the  American Express Co. (AXP)  CEO who also serves
on P&G’s board, to replace him, the Wall Street Journal reported
earlier today. Jennifer Burner, a Pershing Square spokeswoman
who works for Global Strategy Group, said the company had no
immediate comment.  Chelune declined to comment on details of the meeting.  P&G was unchanged at $69.30 at the close in  New York . The
shares have gained 3.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  