-- Palestinian Abbas Pares His Statehood Aspirations at UN
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-09-27T19:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/palestinian-abbas-pares-his-statehood-aspirations-at-un.html
Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  appeared to put off efforts to achieve full
statehood at the United Nations as he told the world body time
is running out for a lasting peace with  Israel .  The 77-year-old Abbas, facing a cash crisis at home,
returned today to the setting where last year he waved an
application for statehood recognition from the podium of the
 United Nations General Assembly . This time, Abbas is seeking a
limited upgrade from observer “entity” to “non-member state”
in the 193-member General Assembly.  Abbas offered no timeline and gave little sense of urgency,
an indication he will hold off on any new initiatives until
after the U.S. elections in November.  “We have begun intensive consultations with various
regional organizations and member states aimed at having the
General Assembly adopt a resolution considering the State of
 Palestine  as a non-member state of the United Nations during
this session,” Abbas said in the UN hall.  “In our endeavor, we do not seek to delegitimize an
existing State -- that is Israel; but rather to assert the state
that must be realized -- that is Palestine,” he said in the
English text of his remarks.  While becoming a non-member state may open the door for the
 Palestinian Authority  to sign treaties such as the Rome Statute
that set up the  International Criminal Court , it would alienate
the U.S., the UN’s biggest financial contributor and a key aid
donor to the Palestinians.  Funds Cut  When the Palestinian Authority was accepted last year into
the UN cultural agency Unesco, best known for its designation of
“world heritage” sites, the U.S. response was to cut off
funding that provides almost a quarter of the agency’s budget.
The U.S. has said that American law would require similar
cutoffs for any UN agency that grants the Palestinians the same
status as member states.  “Developments over the past year have confirmed what we
have persistently drawn attention to and warned of: the
catastrophic danger of the racist Israeli settlement of our
country, Palestine,” Abbas said today.  When Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  spoke less
than an hour later, he responded, “We won’t solve our conflict
with libelous speeches at the UN. We won’t solve our conflict
with unilateral declarations of statehood.”  ‘Mutual Compromise’  “We have to sit together, negotiate together, and reach a
mutual compromise, in which a demilitarized Palestinian state
recognizes the one and only Jewish state,” Netanyahu said.  Still, Netanyahu, who last year devoted his rhetoric to
fending off the Palestinian statehood bid, this year focused
most of his attention on convincing the leaders gathered that
military action may be required to stop  Iran’s nuclear program 
from advancing.  The dispute over  Iran  has drawn attention away from the
difficulties facing the Palestinians.  Deteriorating economic conditions in the  West Bank  have
fueled social-welfare protests. In the  Gaza Strip , the
Palestinians say the situation is becoming untenable.  Palestinians are also no closer to achieving statehood,
either in terms of territory or UN recognition, and the Israeli-
Palestinian  peace process  is moribund.  No ‘Serious’ Talks  Abbas acknowledged as much today, attacking Netanyahu for
not wanting to engage in “serious” peace negotiations. The
last round of direct talks broke down in 2010 over the issue of
limiting Jewish settlements in Palestinian areas.  In what appeared to be a gesture to Netanyahu, Abbas cited
the Holy Land’s connection to Muhammed, Jesus and Abraham. Last
year he omitted Abraham, the biblical progenitor of both Jews
and Muslims, from his UN address -- a slight noted by Netanyahu
when he said, “We are both sons of Abraham.”  Expressing “anger” at the state of affairs, Abbas said
chances for a two-state solution were disappearing. UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon this week also said “the door may
be closing” on that option.  “Despite all the complexities of the prevailing reality
and all the frustrations that abound, we say before the
international community: there is still a chance -- maybe the
last -- to save the two-state solution and to salvage peace,”
Abbas said.  -- With assistance from Fadwa Hodali in Ramallah
Editors: Larry Liebert, Terry Atlas  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  