-- Paramount Contract With Puzo Can’t Be Terminated, Judge Says
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-09-27T22:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/paramount-contract-with-puzo-can-t-be-terminated-judge-says-1-.html
Mario Puzo ’s heirs can’t terminate
a contract he made with  Paramount Pictures  Corp., the movie
studio that produced films based on his “Godfather” novel, a
federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan, in a mixed ruling,
allowed Puzo’s estate to continue pursuing its claim that the
studio breached the contract, according to a filing yesterday in
 Manhattan . The estate sought to cancel the contract because
Paramount’s actions had “repudiated” it, court papers state.  Paramount, a unit of  Viacom Inc., (VIAB)  sued  Anthony Puzo ,
Mario’s son and the executor of his estate, in February to
prevent the publication of a new sequel to “The Godfather,”
claiming it wasn’t authorized. Puzo countersued in April to
cancel the contract. Nathan conducted a hearing in August on
Paramount’s motion to dismiss the counterclaims.  “The estate has failed to plead that Paramount refused to
perform with respect to the entire contract,” Nathan wrote in
her opinion. She also ruled that Paramount’s claim Puzo
infringed its copyright didn’t pre-empt Puzo’s breach claim.  Puzo said in his countersuit that Paramount disregarded
contractual promises to his father and breached a 1969 agreement
with him. The contract between the author, who died in 1999, and
the studio gave him certain rights, including book publishing,
the estate said in court filings.  Estate’s Claim  “The main part of the case remains to be tried,” Bertram Fields, a lawyer for Puzo, said in an e-mail. He indicated that
Puzo would appeal yesterday’s ruling.  “We’re confident that the 2nd Circuit will ultimately
uphold the estate’s claim to cancel Paramount’s rights for the
breach,” Fields said.  Fields said in August that if the contract was terminated,
the heirs might approach other studios about making films based
on the sequels.  Paramount said in its complaint that after Puzo died, the
company agreed to allow Bertelsmann AG’s  Random House  to publish
a single Godfather sequel, “The Godfather Returns,” which came
out in 2004. The estate published another novel, “The
Godfather’s Revenge,” in 2006 without Paramount’s approval, the
studio said. Paramount sued after the estate announced a plan to
publish a third, “The Family Corleone,” this year.  Book’s Proceeds  The sequel, written by Ed Falco, was published in May by
Grand Central Publishing, a unit of Paris-based Hachette Livre
SA. The terms of an interim settlement agreement between
Paramount and Puzo state that proceeds from the book will be put
in escrow pending the outcome of the litigation, according to
court papers.  Paramount claimed the Puzo estate infringed its copyright
with the publication of the novel and infringed its trademark
with the design of the book.  Dade Hayes, a spokesman for Paramount, had no immediate
comment on the ruling.  In yesterday’s order, Nathan set a Jan. 11 status hearing
in Manhattan.  The first “Godfather” film came out in 1972 and won the
Academy Awards for best picture and for adapted screenplay, for
which Puzo shared the credit.  Francis Ford Coppola  directed the
three “Godfather” movies.  The case is Paramount Pictures v. Puzo, 12-01268, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  