-- Obama Economy Has Created Jobs as Payroll Revisions Raise Count
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-09-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/payroll-revisions-signal-economy-has-created-jobs-under-obama.html
More jobs have now been created
than lost since President Barack Obama took office, preliminary
revisions to the U.S. payroll count showed.  The number of jobs created in the year ended in March was
revised upward by 386,000, the Labor Department said in
Washington yesterday. If that estimate is confirmed in the final
report, it would wipe out the 261,000 employment deficit
spanning January 2009 to last month that is currently on the
books and mean the U.S. has created a net 125,000 jobs since
Obama was inaugurated.  At the same time, the 8.1 percent unemployment  rate  in
August was higher than the 7.8 percent when Obama took the oath
of office. Joblessness has exceeded 8 percent for 43 consecutive
months, the longest stretch in monthly records dating to back
1948.  “The jobs recovery over the last 2.5 years has been a bit
stronger than initially reported, although much work remains to
be done to return to full employment,” Alan Krueger, chairman
of Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers, said in a statement.  The figures won’t become official until the final update is
issued with the January employment data released in February
2013, three months after the presidential election.  Republican challenger Mitt Romney’s campaign responded to
the revisions by turning the focus back on the jobless rate,
saying the president has fallen short of his own economic
advisers’ 2009 estimates of how much unemployment would decline
following the $832 billion stimulus measure.  Romney Response  “President Obama’s administration promised, with the
passage of the stimulus, that unemployment would currently be at
5.4 percent with 9 million more people working,” said Romney
campaign spokeswoman Andrea Saul. “With unemployment at 8
percent or higher for the 43rd consecutive month and 23 million
Americans struggling for work, President Obama’s policies have
failed miserably by his own standards.”  Obama campaign spokesman Adam Fetcher said that, as the
revised job numbers were being released today, “the president
gave Virginians specifics about his plan to keep America moving
forward, get folks back to work and make the middle-class secure
again.  “Mitt Romney opposed the president’s jobs proposal, which
could still create as many as 1 million additional jobs, and
instead he proposed plans that independent economists say would
slow the recovery and actually cost us nearly a million jobs.”  Obama last September proposed the American Jobs Act, which
would have cut payroll taxes for workers and employers, provided
aid to states for schools and emergency workers and increased
spending on public-works projects. The $447 billion package was
blocked by Senate Republicans a month later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  