-- PBOC Adviser Says Easing Restrained by Concerns on Homes
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-27T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/pboc-adviser-says-easing-restrained-by-concerns-on-homes.html
A People’s Bank of  China  academic
adviser said the risk of a rebound in property prices may help
explain why the government is holding back from  easing  monetary
policy to counter a deepening economic slowdown.  That concern is ``a big restraint,” Chen Yulu, president
of Beijing’s Renmin University, said yesterday to reporters 
after speaking at a forum in the city. Further cuts in
reserve  requirements  or  interest rates  depend on how much
external demand worsens, Chen said.  The government has refrained from easing since interest-
rate cuts in June and July and a reduction in banks'  reserve
requirements  in May. China’s  growth  is poised to decelerate 
for a seventh quarter as Premier  Wen Jiabao  sticks to a 
campaign to make  home prices  more affordable, curbing domestic 
demand even as Europe’s debt turmoil slows exports.  “China’s monetary policy is in a quite difficult
position,” said Chen, 45. “On one hand, it has to stabilize
growth; on the other hand, it has to avoid a rebound in home
prices.”  Separately, Chen said Japan’s prospects of developing  Tokyo 
as a center for offshore yuan business are being diminished by a
conflict over uninhabited islands in the  East China Sea .
“Relevant exchanges between the two sides have been cut off,”
Chen said. “I really hope the halt is temporary.”  Hong Kong , Singapore or London could replace Tokyo, and
 Taiwan  is also a possibility, for building offshore  yuan 
business, Chen said. “Tokyo had a first-comer advantage,” he
said. “But it seems Japan is giving that up -- that’s a huge
pity.”  Funds Injection  China’s central bank injected a record net 365 billion yuan
($58 billion) into the financial system this week via reverse-
repurchase operations and bill redemptions, the most since
Bloomberg started compiling the data in 2008. The country’s
financial markets will be shut next week for the National Day
and mid-autumn holidays.  The country is not repeating past “one size fits all”
easing measures, and “that’s the direction of monetary policy
that we will continue to uphold -- the reverse-repo operations
exactly reflect such an orientation,” Chen said.  An inspection in July ordered by the State Council found
increases in prices and easing policies by some local
authorities among issues that needed “particular attention,”
the official Xinhua News Agency reported on Aug. 17.  Data last week showed prices for newly constructed homes in
China rose in fewer cities in August than the previous month.
The slowdown follows restrictions on mortgage credit and
purchases of multiple homes.  Forming Bubbles  “Once property bubbles are formed, there is no country in
the world that is able to address the problem effectively --most
countries have to go through a crisis,” Chen said. “China must
seek a soft landing and can’t afford such a crisis.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s third round of asset purchases,
or quantitative easing, will have less effect on the rest of the
world than the second round that began in 2010 because the  U.S.
economy  “is now in better shape, which means a bigger part of
the additional liquidity can be absorbed” in the U.S., Chen
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  