-- Pending Sales of Existing Homes in U.S. Fell 2.6% in August
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-09-27T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/pending-sales-of-existing-homes-in-u-s-fell-2-6-in-august.html
Americans signed fewer contracts
than forecast to purchase previously owned homes in August,
showing the recovery in the housing market will be uneven.  The  index  of pending home resales dropped 2.6 percent after
a revised 2.6 percent gain in July that was more than initially
reported, figures from the National Association of Realtors
showed today in  Washington . The reading compared with a median
forecast of a 0.3 percent gain in a Bloomberg survey of 40
economists.  Unemployment hovering above 8 percent since early 2009 and
stricter credit access are limiting purchases, even as  mortgage
rates  remain attractive. Federal Reserve policy makers have
targeted the housing market with further accommodation measures
in order to spur growth and reduce unemployment.  “It’s going to be really difficult for housing to gain
much momentum here if the employment backdrop doesn’t cooperate,
and that’s exactly what’s happening,”  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S.
economist at RBC Capital Markets LLC in  New York , said before
the report. Limited labor market progress and tight lending
standards also “will ultimately conspire to put a low ceiling
on home sales,” he said.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a decline of
2.3 percent to a rise of 3 percent. July signings were
originally reported as a 2.4 percent increase from the prior
month.  Among other reports today, orders for  durable goods  slumped
13 percent, the most since January 2009, paced by a plunge in
demand for civilian aircraft. Bookings for non-defense capital
equipment excluding planes, a proxy for business investment,
rose 1.1 percent after decreases of 5.2 percent in July and 2.7
percent in June, according to the Commerce Department.  Second Quarter  The economy in the second quarter grew at a 1.3 percent
annual rate, revised from a previous estimate of 1.7 percent,
reflecting smaller gains in  consumer spending  and farm
inventories. Household  purchases  increased at the weakest pace
in a year, the Commerce Department’s data showed.  Three of four regions showed a decrease in pending sales,
according to today’s report from the real-estate agents’ group.
That included a 7.2 percent drop in the West, a 2.6 percent
decrease in the Midwest and a 1.1 percent fall in the South.
They climbed 0.9 percent in the Northeast.  Compared with a  year earlier , the index increased 9.6
percent after a 15.2 percent gain in the prior 12-month period.  Leading Indicator  Pending home sales are considered a leading indicator
because they track contract signings. Purchases of existing
homes are tabulated when a contract closes, typically a month or
two later, and made up more than 90 percent of the housing
market last year.  Purchases of new homes, logged when contracts are signed,
hovered close to a two-year high in August, the Commerce
Department said yesterday. Sales of previously owned houses
climbed to the highest since May 2010, the Realtors group
reported on Sept. 19.  Property values also are improving. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of  home prices  in 20 cities increased more than forecast
in July from a year earlier, a report from the group showed
earlier this week.  Borrowing costs are bolstering the industry. The average
rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped to 3.49 percent in the
week ended Sept. 20, matching the lowest in records dating to
1971, according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac .  Fed Purchases  The Fed has also committed to purchasing $40 billion of
mortgage debt a month, which may underpin a housing market that
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said has been “one of the missing
pistons in the engine.”  “Our mortgage-backed securities purchases ought to drive
down mortgage rates and put downward pressure on mortgage rates
and create more demand for homes and more refinancing,”
Bernanke said in a Sept. 13 press conference after the central
bank announced the debt-buying plans.  The Fed’s so called quantitative easing is encouraging
builders like Miami-based  Lennar Corp. (LEN)   “We see with QE3 that the government is focused on the
home mortgage market and is working to keep rates low and to
maintain an orderly flow of capital to the mortgage market,”
 Stuart Miller , the company’s chief executive officer, said on a
Sept. 24 earnings call. “This is an important harbinger of
future focus on nurturing a housing recovery.”  Home Foreclosures  Foreclosures may be starting to slow. Distressed sales
accounted for 22 percent of existing-home purchases in August,
the lowest since at least October 2008 when record-keeping
began, the Realtors data showed. Such sales are comprised of
foreclosures and short sales, in which the lender agrees to a
transaction for less than the balance of the mortgage.  “It’s likely to reassert itself as an issue in the fall
and in the winter, when the share of distressed transactions
will actually rise and it’ll probably either slow down the
improvement in home prices or maybe even reverse it for a couple
of months,” said  Mark Vitner , a senior economist at  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  