-- Penn State Football Revenue Up as Team’s Start Worst Since 2006
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-09-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/penn-state-football-revenue-up-as-team-s-start-worst-since-2006.html
Penn State’s football  team, stung
by sanctions that will last five years after the Jerry Sandusky
child sex-abuse convictions, is off to its worst start since
2006.  Its revenue-generating ability hasn’t slipped at all.  Fans have bought 68,000 season tickets, about the same as
last year; the 60 luxury suites at Beaver Stadium are sold out,
and donations tied to ticket purchases are projected to reach a
record $17.5 million this season, according to the school.  “The NCAA put a cage around us, it’s just a fact,”  acting
Athletic Director David Joyner , a former Nittany Lions All-
America lineman, said in an interview. “What I like to say is
when somebody puts a cage around us, you have to become cage
fighters. And that’s what we’re doing.”  Following an investigation that showed university officials
looked the other way after learning of Sandusky’s child
molestation, the  National Collegiate Athletic Association  banned
Penn State from the football postseason and reduced its annual
scholarship allotment by 20 for each of the next four years;
fined the athletic department $60 million over five years, and
wiped out 112 football victories between 1998 and 2011.  Joyner, 62, a physician who also wrestled at Penn State,
said the school communicated with alumni and fans, talked with
sponsors and held private meetings with key  boosters  about what
it was doing to fix its failures and maintain its 31 sports.  It then put new coach Bill O’Brien on a bus for a three-
week, 18-city tour to face the fans and share his rebuilding
plans. In Wilkes-Barre,  Pennsylvania , 950 people showed up, and
 Penn State  had to close the event. In Richmond,  Virginia , 250
attended a 7 a.m. breakfast. Other stops drew 400-500 people,
Joyner said.  Alumni Passion  “We have an extremely passionate alumni group,” Karen Peetz, 57, chairwoman of the  State College , Pennsylvania,
school’s trustees, said in an interview last week at Bloomberg
LP’s headquarters in  New York . “This is something people
believe in. We think people will dig deep and say now is the
time to support the university.”  Penn State’s response so far received high marks along with
a warning from  Barry Scanlon , president of  Witt Associates , a
Washington-based crisis management consulting firm.  Scanlon, whose company advised BP on restoring communities
hit by the 2010 Gulf Coast oil spill and  Virginia Tech  after the
campus shooting deaths there in April 2007, said Penn State has
changed leadership, communicated with fans and alumni and shown
humility. Those policies must be maintained, he said.  “You can survive a losing season,” Scanlon said in a
telephone interview. “You can’t survive a lost reputation.”  Football Revenue  The Nittany Lions generated $116.1 million in revenue in
fiscal 2011 and turned a profit of $14.8 million, according to
the school’s  NCAA revenue and expenses report . Football
accounted for $58.9 million in revenue and $43.8 million in
profit, which helped support the school’s money-losing sports.
The athletic program will borrow as much as $12 million annually
each of the next five years to cover the NCAA fine, and the
school will expect football to help pay the debt service.  Joyner said contracts as long as 10 years will keep many
sponsors in the fold, giving the school time to repair its
reputation. The athletic department earned $55.2 million from
royalties, licensing, advertisements and sponsorships in the
fiscal year ending June 30, 2011, according to  school documents .
Sandusky was charged in November.  Beyond Signs  PNC Financial Services Group Inc., (PNC)  based in Pittsburgh, has
a year left on an agreement that includes signs and tickets to
sports events, and banking services on campus.  “Our relationship extends beyond signage,” said  Fred
Solomon, PNC’s vice president of external communications . “It
includes helping Penn State students bank and develop financial
management skills. The incident does not eliminate those
needs.”  State Farm Insurance Co., the U.S’s largest automobile
insurer, dropped its sponsorship of the football team in July to
show support for the victims, spokeswoman Arlene Lester said at
the time. The company, which declined to say how much the deal
cost, maintained support of men’s basketball at the school and
college football overall.  Penn State is 2-2 this season after beating  Temple
University  on Sept. 22 at 107,000-seat Beaver Stadium, where
students wore blue to support child sex-abuse victims. The start
is the Nittany Lions’ worst since they were 2-2 six years ago.  Head Coach  O’Brien, 42, is in his first head-coaching job. He
succeeded  Joe Paterno , the late coach who was fired after 46
years because of his lack of action when told that Sandusky had
sexually assaulted a boy in the football building’s shower room.
Sandusky was convicted on 45 counts of abusing boys over a 15-
year period and faces sentencing on Oct. 9.  The University of  Southern California  and  Ohio State
University  were punished by the NCAA in recent years for
athletic rules violations. Both were stripped of football
scholarships and banned from postseason play. Both are back in
the Top 25 rankings, playing before sellout crowds after
appealing to their fan bases and committing to reforms.  “They have an opportunity to rally around the existing
team,” Ohio State Athletic Director  Gene Smith  said of Penn
State in a telephone interview. “The first year will be fine,
then a question becomes, ‘How’s it go from here?’”  USC Spending  Pat Haden, a former Southern  California  quarterback who is
now athletic director there, said the university faced its
scandal straight on. President C.L. Max Nikias announced $123
million in athletics-related capital improvements right when the
university was reeling from the sanctions.  “It was a large statement for us,” Haden said. “We were
not going to go away and hide and be embarrassed about what
happened. We were going to build for the future.”  Penn State President Rodney Erickson said in an interview
that he is preparing for a possible revenue drop and the school
is delaying capital-improvement projects, like a $13 million
football scoreboard replacement. Under the sanctions, Penn State
can’t cut back on non-revenue sports to save money.  The athletic department has collected $282 million of a
$300 million fundraising campaign and is projected to exceed the
goal by the 2014 target date, Joyner said.  “As one of the football players said, ‘The higher the
heat, the stronger the steel,’” Joyner said. “The good word is
that the base has been very much energized.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  