-- Pentagon Spending Shouldn’t Slow Before Cuts, Carter Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-09-28T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/pentagon-spending-shouldn-t-slow-before-cuts-carter-says.html
The Pentagon’s No. 2 civilian
directed military departments and acquisition personnel to
proceed with normal operations, including training and
contracting, even though action hasn’t been taken to avert
looming spending cuts.  The Pentagon “needs to continue normal spending and
operations,” Deputy Defense Secretary Ashton Carter told
Defense Department and military service heads in a memo obtained
yesterday by Bloomberg News.  Defense programs would have to absorb about $500 billion in
cuts from planned spending over a decade under sequestration,
reductions in defense and certain domestic programs that will
begin to take effect on Jan. 2 unless President Barack Obama and
Congress agree on action to avert the technique aimed at cutting
the federal deficit.  “We do not want our programs, personnel and activities to
begin to suffer the harmful effects of sequestration while there
is still a chance it can be avoided,” Carter wrote in the memo
dated Sept. 25. He directed commanders and managers to
“continue the defense mission under current laws and policies,
without taking steps that assume sequestration will occur.”  Carter’s guidance “is fully consistent with the Pentagon’s
sequestration strategy to date, which has been to just ignore it
and assume it will go away,” Todd Harrison, a defense budget
analyst for the nonpartisan Center for Strategic and Budgetary
Assessments in Washington, said in an e-mail.  Post-Election Session  Congress has adjourned until November, meaning that any
resolution would need to be accomplished during a post-election
session.  “I’ll take whatever the hell deal they can make right
now,” Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said at a news conference
yesterday at the Pentagon. “The problem now is that, you know,
they’ve left town, and all of this has now been put off into the
lame-duck session.”  The Obama administration, in a report released Sept. 14,
outlined $1.2 trillion in cuts that it said would be
“devastating” to federal programs.  The White House Office of Management and Budget said
sequestration would require chopping $109 billion from the
budget in fiscal 2013, with $54.7 billion coming from defense
and $54.7 billion from domestic programs.  Lockheed, Huntington  According to the report, the Air Force’s $21.3 billion
aircraft procurement request would be cut by $2 billion, hitting
aircraft and electronics makers such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,
 Boeing Co. (BA) ,  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ,  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and  L-3
Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL)   The Navy’s $22.7 billion shipbuilding and conversion
account would be cut by $2.1 billion, which would affect
builders  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  and  General Dynamics
Corp. (GD)   “Commanders and managers should not alarm our employees
and their families by announcing personnel actions related to
sequestration or suggesting that these actions are likely, nor
should commanders and managers hold back on obligation of funds
-- either for investment or for operating programs -- if those
funds have been obligated in the absence of the sequester
threat,” Carter wrote.  Although all fiscal 2013 funds are subject to
sequestration, “we cannot imagine a scenario in which already-
obligated funds funds would be sequestered,” Pentagon
spokeswoman Lieutenant Colonel Elizabeth Robbins said in an e-
mail.  “Rather, once sequestration kicks in, the full sequester
amount will be exacted from the unobligated funds remaining,”
she said.  Year’s Worth  Harrison said the trouble with that approach is that “if
sequestration does occur, you will have to implement a year’s
worth of cuts in the nine remaining months of the fiscal year”
that began Oct. 1, he said.  “The cuts will have to be deeper,” he said, “and some
cuts require more time to implement, such as giving furlough
notices to civilian employees, so you may end up with only seven
or eight months to implement the cuts.”  While Panetta has said Congress must act to stop
sequestration, Republican lawmakers and Mitt Romney, the
Republican presidential nominee, have said Obama should be
taking the lead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  