-- Peso Leads Asian Currency Gains on Optimism for Spending Boost
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-09-27T08:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/peso-leads-asian-currency-gains-on-optimism-for-spending-boost.html
Asian currencies rose toward a
four-month high, led by the Philippine peso and  Malaysia ’s
ringgit, on optimism regional economies have scope to combat
slowdowns by boosting state spending.  The peso gained the most in almost two weeks after the
government reported a third monthly  budget surplus  for 2012 in
August. The ringgit approached its highest level since May ahead
of Prime Minister Najib Razak’s annual address to Parliament
tomorrow, when he may announce more steps to spur  consumer
spending  and boost economic growth. Concern  Europe ’s debt crisis
will worsen may damp interest in riskier assets, said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “The Philippines and Malaysia would have the fiscal space
to deal with the slowdown from the external side,” said
Singapore-based Tanuwidjaja. “I don’t see a massive gain in
Asian currencies. Globally, markets are still looking at the
developments in Europe.”  The peso strengthened 0.4 percent to 41.870 per dollar in
 Manila , data compiled by Bloomberg show. The ringgit appreciated
0.3 percent to 3.0755, South Korea’s won advanced 0.4 percent to
1,116.30 and India’s rupee gained 0.4 percent to 53.31.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies outside  Japan , rose 0.1
percent to 116.86 and has gained 1.4 percent this quarter. It
reached 117.06 on Sept. 21, the highest level since May 2.  Growth Outlook  Asian economies excluding Japan will expand 6 percent this
year, outpacing growth of 2.1 percent in the U.S., according to
latest forecasts from Morgan Stanley. The euro area will
contract 0.5 percent, the U.S.-based company predicts.  Spain’s borrowing costs rose yesterday, with 10-year yields
topping 6 percent, as calls for national elections raised
concern a new government will abort efforts to bring down fiscal
spending and debt. Protesters marched for a second night in
 Madrid , urging Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to reverse austerity
measures as his nine-month-old government prepared its fifth
package of budget cuts.  The peso advanced as improving state finances reinforced
speculation the Southeast Asian nation’s credit rating will be
raised to investment grade. The budget surplus in August was
2.52 billion pesos ($60 million), compared with a deficit of
39.2 billion pesos for July. Revenue rose 4.2 percent, while
spending gained 10.4 percent.  “The budget surplus was pretty encouraging,” said
Tanuwidjaja. “The Philippines is looking very confident in
getting an investment grade.”  Philippine Rating Optimism  Standard & Poor’s  raised the Philippines’ debt rating to
BB+, one step below investment grade, in July, citing the
improvement in the balance of payments and growth prospects.
Moody’s Investors Service, which ranks the country at the
second-highest junk level, boosted its outlook to positive in
May.  The ringgit climbed the most this week before tomorrow’s
2013 budget announcement. The currency touched 3.0333 on Sept.
14, the strongest level since May 4.  “The tabling of the budget on Friday could be one factor
that’s supporting the ringgit,” said Choong Yin Pheng, senior
manager for fixed income and economic research at Hong Leong
Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “There will be more handouts to help
the low- and middle-income groups.”  Exporters Selling  Malaysia’s 2013 budget will be 259 billion ringgit ($84
billion), bigger than last year’s record 232.8 billion ringgit,
Citigroup Inc. estimates. The government, which joined
counterparts from  Thailand  to the Philippines in increasing
spending to protect their economies from the  European debt
crisis  and a faltering U.S. recovery, proposed in June to expand
the 2012 annual allocation by 13.4 billion ringgit.  The won strengthened to a one-week high as stocks rallied
and on speculation exporters repatriated income ahead of next
week’s holiday.  The Kospi  index  of shares reversed an earlier loss to close
up 0.4 percent after a report showed Chinese industrial
companies’ profits dropped for a fifth month in August, boosting
speculation authorities in Beijing will do more to support
economic growth. The Dollar Index fell for the first time in
four days. Local financial markets are closed Oct. 1 for a
public holiday.  “We saw more exporters selling dollars to repatriate
income as the end of the month approaches,” said Lee Jin Ill, a
Seoul-based currency dealer at Hana Bank. “With the dollar
weakening against other currencies and shares rising, there was
some risk-on sentiment.”  Elsewhere in Asia, Taiwan’s dollar climbed 0.3 percent to
NT$29.420 against its U.S. counterpart. Indonesia’s rupiah rose
0.1 percent to 9,594, Thailand’s baht was steady at 30.98 and
China’s  yuan  was little changed at 6.3025. Vietnam’s dong was
steady at 20,880.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  