-- Petrobras Gets Approval to Acquire Anadarko Stake in Brazil
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-09-27T20:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/petrobras-gets-approval-to-acquire-anadarko-stake-in-brazil-2-.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the world’s
biggest oil producer in deep water, received approval to acquire
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ’s 30 percent stake in an offshore
block, the country’s oil regulator said.  Anadarko, based in The Woodlands, Texas, “relinquished”
its stake in the ES-M-661 block more than six months ago and is
focusing on its assets in the Campos Basin,  John Christiansen , a
spokesman for Anadarko, said in a telephone interview today.
Brazil’s oil regulator, known as ANP, didn’t provide terms of
the transaction in a statement today on its website.  The block is located 58 kilometers (36 miles) off the coast
of Espirito Santo state where Petrobras found heavy oil in July.
State-run oil producer Petrobras plans to continue exploring the
block and submit an assessment plan to the ANP, it said in a
July 11  statement .  Anadarko said last year it was seeking to sell its shares
in Brazilian offshore blocks to help pay off debt. The company
had interests in about 750,000 gross acres in six blocks off the
coast of Brazil in the Campos and Espirito Santo basins,
according to a U.S. regulatory filing in February.  Double Output  Petrobras and other explorers including billionaire  Eike
Batista ’s  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA  are exploring in
deep waters of the Espirito Santo Basin, north of the country’s
largest discoveries in the Santos Basin. Petrobras plans to more
than double production to 5.7 million barrels a day in 2020,
mainly from fields off the coast.  Petrobras operates the offshore concession where Anadarko
relinquished its stake. IBV Brasil Petroleo Ltda., a unit of
 Bharat Petroleum Corp. (BPCL)  and  Videocon Industries Ltd (VCLF)  ., has a 30
percent stake in the block.  Petrobras didn’t respond to telephone calls and e-mails
seeking comment.  Petrobras rose 0.8 percent to 23.29 reais at the close in
Sao Paulo. Anadarko gained 2.1 percent to $70.23 in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  