-- Plosser Says Fed is Prepared to Respond to Europe Crisis
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-09-27T13:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/plosser-says-fed-is-prepared-to-respond-to-europe-crisis.html
Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said policy makers are
monitoring  Europe ’s debt crisis and are prepared to act should
officials in the region prove unable to contain its spread.  “The Fed is watching Europe very carefully and the
consequences of that, how that will play out if Europe suffers a
financial crisis for some reason,” Plosser said today in a
“Bloomberg Surveillance” television interview with Tom Keene
and Sara Eisen. “We are prepared to respond.”  Spanish 10-year bond yields rose above 6 percent yesterday,
climbing by the most in two months, as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  defied anti-austerity protesters with a plan to cut the
deficit by at least 18 billion euros ($23.2 billion) next year.
Police in  Athens  dispersed protesters with tear gas this week.  Plosser also reiterated comments from his Sept. 25 speech
in which he said new bond buying announced by the Fed this month
probably won’t boost growth or hiring and may jeopardize the
central bank’s credibility. Policy makers said Sept. 13 that
they’ll begin a third round of quantitative easing by purchasing
mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month
until labor markets “improve substantially.”  “We’re in uncharted territories, not just for monetary
policy but for our economy and the kind of headwinds we’re
facing,” said Plosser, who doesn’t vote on policy this year.
“There’s plenty to keep you up at night.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  is using
unconventional tools to attack a  jobless rate  stuck above 8
percent since February 2009. The FOMC also said this month it
will probably hold the  federal funds  rate near zero at least
through mid-2015. The Fed had forecast since January that rates
will stay low at least through late 2014.  Officials ‘Frustrated’  Keeping the central bank’s main  interest rate  near zero
since December 2008 is “an extraordinary state of affairs,”
and policy makers are “frustrated” because the economy still
isn’t doing well, Plosser said.  The world’s largest economy grew less than previously
forecast in the second quarter, the Commerce Department said
today. Gross domestic product expanded at a 1.3 percent pace in
the second quarter after growing at a 2 percent rate from
January through March. The revision, the third estimate for the
quarter, compared with a prior estimate of 1.7 percent.  Before announcing QE3 this month, the Fed expanded its
balance sheet with two prior rounds of bond purchases. In the
first, starting in 2008, the Fed bought $1.25 trillion of
mortgage-backed securities, $175 billion of federal agency debt
and $300 billion of Treasuries. In the second round, announced
in November 2010, the Fed bought $600 billion of Treasuries.  “The risks and the costs might be very much higher than
whatever small benefits we get,” Plosser said today. “If it
doesn’t work, we risk the credibility of the institution.”  Plosser, 64, became president of the Philadelphia Fed in
August 2006. He was previously dean of the graduate school of
business administration at the University of Rochester in  New
York  State. The Philadelphia Fed will next have a vote on policy
decisions in 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  