-- Pound Advances as U.K. Growth Beats Forecast Amid Spain Protests
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-09-27T15:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/pound-rises-for-first-time-in-4-days-versus-dollar-before-gdp.html
The pound rose for the first time
in four days against the dollar after a government report showed
the economy shrank less than previously estimated in the second
quarter, adding to optimism the recession is easing.  Sterling climbed to a three-week high versus the euro after
Spanish protesters marched for a second night in Madrid
yesterday, calling for an end to austerity measures. A general
strike in Greece yesterday attracted as many as 35,000
protesters into downtown Athens. U.K. government bonds fell,
with 10-year yields rising from the lowest in two weeks.  The economic growth “numbers probably help cement the view
a little further that if you’re looking for a credible
alternative to the  euro zone , the U.K. does definitely provide
one,” said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at  Bank of
New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  in London. “The dominant factor is what
is happening in Greece and Madrid. Those factors continue to
weigh on euro-sterling.”  The pound appreciated 0.2 percent to $1.6192 at 4:37 p.m.
London time after dropping 0.4 percent over the previous three
days. The U.K. currency gained 0.4 percent to 79.35 pence per
euro after reaching 79.24 pence, the strongest since Sept. 6.  Sterling will climb to 77 pence per euro before the end of
the year, Bank of  New York  Mellon’s Derrick said.  U.K.  gross domestic product  fell 0.4 percent in the second
quarter, instead of the 0.5 percent decline estimated last
month, the  Office for National Statistics  said in London. Real
household disposable income rose 1.9 percent in the second
quarter, the biggest jump for three years.  ‘Very Strong’  The third-quarter GDP number is likely to be “very
strong,”  Paul Fisher , markets director at the  Bank of England ,
was quoted as saying in an interview with The Sun newspaper.  The central bank’s favored inflation gauge, the five-year,
five-year forward  break-even rate , climbed five basis points to
2.75 percent, after falling to 2.7 percent, the lowest since
Sept. 3. The measure shows how much traders anticipate consumer
prices will rise during a period of five years starting in 2017.  Thousands demonstrated yesterday near the Spanish
Parliament, where police detained and clashed with protesters
the night before. Greece faces a financing gap that won’t be
closed by budget measures because the recession and delayed
privatizations have weakened its fiscal situation, International
Monetary Fund chief  Christine Lagarde  said Sept. 24.  ‘Buy Sterling’  “These worries in Europe that have flared over the past
couple of days will just get people maybe looking to buy
sterling,” said  Paul Robson , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.  The pound has strengthened 1.9 percent this year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The euro tumbled 3.6 percent and
the dollar weakened 2.6 percent.  The 10-year gilt yield climbed three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.72 percent after dropping as much as 14
basis points yesterday, the biggest decline since May 30. The
1.75 percent bond due in September 2022 fell 0.25, or 2.50
pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 100.27.  U.K. debt was the most volatile among developed-market
 government bonds  today, according to measures of 10-year bonds,
the spread between two- and 10-year securities and credit
default swaps.  Gilts returned 3.6 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds also
gained 3.2 percent and  U.S. Treasuries  rose 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  