-- Power Rally Fizzles as Subsidies Weigh on Debt: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2012-09-27T18:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/power-rally-fizzles-as-subsidies-weigh-on-debt-corporate-india.html
A rally in India’s power stocks
spurred by a government proposal to slash $30 billion of state
distributors’ debt has stalled amid concern reluctance to cut
subsidies will prevent its implementation.  The  BSE Power Index (BSEPOWR) , comprising 17 utilities and
manufacturers, surged the most in seven months in a three-day
advance as the federal cabinet on Sept. 24 allowed state
electricity suppliers to raise tariffs as part of a plan to
revamp their short-term loans and help meet supply commitments.
The gauge has dropped from a five-month high as Fitch Ratings
said benefits from the plan hinged on strong political will for
meaningful reforms.  Populist measures to win votes by shielding consumers from
higher electricity charges and a widening gap between cost of
supply and collections have resulted in 2.46 trillion rupees
($46 billion) of losses as of March 2012. Companies that buy
power from generators such as  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC) , Asia’s largest by value,
and  Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) , can refinance as much as 1.6 trillion
rupees of their loans and access fresh funds in an offer aimed
at reducing blackouts.  “This plan is not a gift from the central government; the
states must fall in line for it to work,” NTPC Chairman Arup Roy Choudhury said yesterday in a telephone interview. “The
plan to enhance their liquidity should benefit all utilities,
but we have to give it some time to see if the states will
succeed in implementation.”  ‘Best Terms’  Lanco, India’s second-biggest non-state producer, was the
best performer on the index during the three days through Sept.
25, jumping almost 13 percent, while billionaire Gautam Thapar-
backed  Crompton Greaves Ltd. (CRG) , a maker of transformers and
switchgears,  gained  11 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The power index climbed 6.6 percent in the period to
2,033.49, its  highest level  since April 24, before dropping 0.6
percent.  Under the debt revamp plan, 50 percent of the short-term
borrowings of the state utilities will be taken over by regional
governments, while the rest will be reorganized by lenders on
the “best possible terms,” according to the government.  The loans taken over by regional governments will first be
converted into bonds, guaranteed by the state authorities,
before being sold to lenders. The governments will repay the
utilities for the bonds over two to five years. The plan will
include steps to improve operational efficiency.  Boosting Valuation  A successful implementation of the proposals is crucial to
recovering money from the cash-strapped distributors and help
Lanco boost its valuations when it is trying to sell a stake in
its power business, said K. Raja Gopal, chief executive officer
of the company based in Gurgaon near New Delhi.  The electricity boards of Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and
Tamil Nadu owe Lanco a combined 12 billion rupees, he said.  “Our own financial condition and that of the electricity
boards still depends on the states’ plans,” said Gopal. “We
are earnestly hoping that the center’s plans fall into place
locally.”  Lanco is seeking to raise as much as $750 million from
private equity investors, it said in January. Total debt of
Lanco has risen almost  ninefold  to 280.4 billion rupees from
four years ago, while the company reported a loss of 1.1 billion
rupees in the 12 months ended March 31. Shares have slumped 82
percent from a December 2007 record.  Core Issue  Local administrations may be reluctant to increase
electricity tariffs as at least 10 states face elections this
year and next before the nation goes to polls to choose a
central government in 2014, said Daryl Philip, an analyst with
Mumbai-based Finquest Securities Pvt.  “Restructuring loans will happen, but the core issue here
is to increase tariffs, and that’s the toughest part of the
deal,” said Philip.  Most state utilities often adhere to political demands of
the local governments by providing free or cheap power to people.
Punjab and Haryana, two of India’s biggest producers of food
crops, provide subsidized power to farmers. Some utilities don’t
receive subsidies announced by governments in lieu of free power
they give to farmers, according to Salil Garg, a New Delhi-based
director at Fitch Ratings.  “In light of the political sensitivity of the issue,
strong political will across various state governments will be
needed to achieve meaningful reform,” Fitch said in a statement
yesterday. “The long-term benefits will only materialize if the
state electricity boards meet their milestones on tariff rises
and reducing the large operational inefficiencies that lie at
the core of the problem.”  Biggest Blackout  States, including Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and
Karnataka, have increased tariffs since April to reduce the gap
between cost and sales. Tamil Nadu increased tariffs after
almost a decade.  Almost 27 percent of India’s electricity is lost in
transmission because of dissipation through wires and theft,
causing a peak shortfall of 9 percent. Distribution utilities,
unable to retrieve their costs through tariffs, accumulate debt
and losses and cut purchases of electricity, leading to
blackouts. Grid collapses on two consecutive days in July caused
the world’s biggest blackout.  Beat Targets  NTPC was forced to cut generation by 13 billion kilowatt
hours, or 6 percent of total production in the year ended March
31, as state government utilities reduced purchases, Chairman
Choudhury said.  The state-owned generator may not have to cut output this
fiscal year should the debt revamp plan succeed, said Chirag Shah, an analyst at Mumbai-based ICICIdirect.com.  “Instead it can increase volumes and beat its generation
targets,” he said. “State and private generating utilities
stand to gain the most if states are able to increase power
purchases.”  Successful implementation may help  PTC India Ltd. (PTCIN) , the
nation’s biggest power trader, recover 15 billion rupees,
freeing up its balance sheet, said Shah. PTC surged 11 percent
in the three days to Sept. 25, before dropping 1.2 percent in
the following two days of trading in Mumbai.  Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh states owe PTC about 16
billion rupees, Shah said. That is about 80 percent of the
company’s 20 billion rupee market value.  Punjab State Power Corp. has 200 billion rupees of
liabilities, half of which is short-term and being considered
for restructuring, Finance Director S.C. Arora said last month.
The distributor lost 0.07 rupees on every kilowatt hour of
electricity it sold last year, he said.  Increasing losses at state utilities are also endangering
investment in power projects in states, as concerns mount that
generation companies may find it difficult to recover their dues
from utilities.  “All that’s happened is that the Cabinet has approved a
plan; that still has a long way to go,” NTPC’s Choudhury said.
“We can still only generate as much as states are willing to
draw. There’s still a lot that needs to happen before we can
start thinking otherwise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  