-- Property Funds, Bonds Supplant Europe Lenders: Mortgages
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-09-28T13:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/property-funds-bonds-supplant-europe-lenders-mortgages.html
Great Portland Estates Plc (GPOR) , the
U.K.’s best-performing REIT this year, owed 60 percent of its
debt to banks in 2010. Now, that same share of the  London 
developer’s debts is held by bondholders and insurers that
stepped into the market after banks reduced lending.  Property companies like Great  Portland  and Derwent London
Plc turned to non-bank lenders while Hammerson Plc tapped the
bond market to secure funding that’s cheaper and longer-term
than bank loans, which typically mature in five years. For the
new lenders and investors, the shift is a chance to earn returns
as much as three times government bonds.  Great Portland “is taking seven- and 10-year money because
we think underlying rates are at a good point in the market to
be locking in today,” said Finance Director Nick Sanderson. The
London-based developer and Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society
Ltd. together agreed on a 10-year 80 million-pound ($130
million) loan from Canada Life Investments in July to fund their
property venture.  More than 580 billion euros of property loans in the region
mature this year and next, real estate broker DTZ estimates.
With banks in  Europe  unwilling or unable to offer more than
five-year loans, opportunities are expanding for non-bank
lenders to offer commercial mortgages with maturities as long as
20 years. Axa Real Estate Investment Managers is raising
additional funds while  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and  Aviva Plc (AV/)  are among
other non-bank lenders that may lend as much as $75 billion for
European real estate investment through 2013, DTZ estimates.  Returns Attract  Returns of 5 percent to 6 percent a year are the
attraction, according to Nick Pink, European chief investment
officer at Cornerstone Real Estate Advisers LLC. That compares
with 1.73 percent yields for  10-year U.K. gilts .  Cornerstone expects to lend as much as 350 million pounds
in the next 12 months with a focus on London and Southeast
England, Pink said. The amount of maturing debt means new
lenders can be selective.  “We’re not out there looking for potential borrowers who
have nowhere else to go,” he said.  New bank loans for European commercial real estate fell by
about 77 percent to 47.6 billion euros between 2007 and 2011,
Michael Haddock,  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)  research director, estimates.  Capital Requirements  European banks, which have as much as 2.4 trillion euros of
loans outstanding to real estate companies, will cut that amount
by about 25 percent as they work to meet tighter capital
regulations under an agreement approved by the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision , Morgan Stanley wrote in a March report.  Deutsche Bank AG analysts including Paul Heaton wrote in a
June research note that “now is the ideal time to enter senior
real estate lending.” Risk is “at its lowest (represented by
lenders able to negotiate lower loan-to-value ratios) and
returns at their highest (represented by widest margins).”  Commercial real estate lending will develop “into the next
big investment product as an alternative to investing directly
into,” property said Natale Giostra, head of CBRE Group’s
European debt-advisory unit.  Developers are also looking to the  bond market  for less-
expensive financing as central banks globally push down
borrowing costs, encouraging investors to seek higher yielding
securities. Five European real estate investment trusts have
raised almost 3.5 billion euros this month from bond sales,
compared with 1.39 billion euros raised this year from the sale
of commercial mortgage backed securities, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bond Sales  Klepierre SA, Europe’s second-largest shopping center
owner, sold a seven-year 500 million euros bond with a 2.75
percent coupon, while Hammerson raised 500 million euros with a
seven-year 2.75 percent bond.  Great Portland raised $200 million in May from the sale of
bonds maturing in 2019 and 2022. Its total debt including joint
ventures was 740.3 million pounds through June compared with
about 687 million pounds through March as it started
developments and invested in its existing buildings, it said in
a July statement.  From June 2011 through May 23, the developer agreed to 510
million pounds of new debt facilities that mature between 2007
and 2022, Finance Director Sanderson told analysts in a call
that day. That raised its average time before loans mature from
5.2 years to 7.6 years, Sanderson said.  European commercial property prices fell 1 percent last
year after rising 5.3 percent in 2010, according to data from
Investment Property Databank Ltd., the latest available. That
followed declines of 2.2 percent in 2009 and 15.9 percent in
2008 that left borrowers struggling to remain solvent and banks
trying to sell soured mortgages.  Longer Mortgages  Insurers and funds are offering longer-term mortgages,
allowing developers to refinance five-year bank loans.  Axa Real Estate, which loaned about 1.33 billion euros in
the first six months of 2012, is raising additional funds to
lend to property buyers, according to Isabelle Scemama, the
company’s head of commercial real estate finance. The insurer
has loaned or has the ability to provide about 5 billion euros
of loans, typically for three- to seven-year terms, she said.  “Size is key because to be active on this market you need
some investment capacity,” Scemama said.  Blackrock may raise funds to give direct loans to European
commercial property buyers, spokesman Marc Bubeck said in an e-
mail.  Schroders Plc (SDR) , a London-based  fund manager , may set up a
similar fund, according to a person familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because the decision isn’t final.
Schroders declined to comment in an e-mail.  Lending Expands  Canada Life, the  Great-West Lifeco Inc. (GWO)  unit that made the
loan to the Great Portland venture, is “actively expanding its
loan book,” real estate finance director Nicholas Bent said in
a July 18 statement. The 10-year loan, at a rate of 3.7 percent
a year, is secured by 12 shops on London’s Oxford Street, the
U.K.’s busiest shopping strip. Great Portland has risen about 40
percent this year, the  FTSE 350 REIT Index (F3REITS) ’s best performer.  Lenders and borrowers have realized that the typical five-
year bank loan for income-producing real estate is short,
Cornerstone’s Pink said. The Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance
Co. unit, will offer loans for as many as 20 years, he added.  Borrowers “probably want a balance of maturities and a
balance of different debt providers,” Pink said.  As property prices boomed in Europe through 2007, “people
were borrowing money without looking at the term of the loan
because it was always rolled” over and replaced with new debt,
Irish developer Simon Kelly, who together with his family owes
banks 800 million euros, said in a phone interview. Now,
borrowers who take out a four-year loan “have to start
panicking about it after two years,” he said.  ‘Diversified Funding’  Derwent (DLN) , another London developer, borrowed 83 million
pounds for 12 years from Cornerstone in August at a fixed rate
of 3.99 percent a year. The loan margin was 210 basis points
over the gilt rate, Derwent said in a statement at the time.  The new loan “provides a diversified source of funding for
Derwent at a modest all-in  interest rate , taking advantage of
the recent falls in gilt rates,” Damian Wisniewski, the
company’s finance director, said in the statement. “It also
enhances our debt-maturity profile.”  Aviva, the second-largest U.K. insurer, provided South
African billionaire Nathan Kirsh with a 145 million-pound loan
with a 20-year term in February to fund half the acquisition of
Tower 42, the first skyscraper built in the  City of London 
financial district.  Raising Cash  The number of funds raising money for real estate lending
in Europe rose 66 percent in the first six months of 2012
compared with a year earlier, according to research from Indirex
Ltd., which compiles data on real estate funds that aren’t
publicly traded. While they initially focused mainly on the
U.K., Europe-wide funds are more popular now, according to Gary
McNamara, business development director at Indirex.  “A lot of guys have formed debt funds and are really
trying to capture that market,” Keith Breslauer, founder and
managing director at private-equity firm Patron Capital Ltd.,
said in a telephone interview.  Patron raised more than 880 million euros in September to
buy distressed property and real estate related companies in
Europe. It has yet to borrow from a debt fund and may do so in
the future, Breslauer said.  Fundraising Delays  Junior and mezzanine lenders, who can demand higher returns
than senior lenders because their loans rank lower in repayment
priority, have raised about 5 billion pounds to lend to real
estate investors in the last two years, Giostra at CBRE
estimates. Junior lenders are achieving internal rates of return
of 8 percent to 11 percent a year, an annualized measure of
performance used by private-equity managers, said Giostra, and
mezzanine funds are targeting IRRs of 12 percent to 15 percent.  “Fundraising on some of these debt-fund vehicles is taking
longer than expected,” Hans Vrensen, DTZ’s global head of
research said in an interview. “It may be a little delayed, the
amount raised may be a little bit lower in the short term”
because some investors are still risk averse, he said.  Much like the developers seeking to extend debt maturities,
lenders like Cornerstone are taking a longer view. Providing
loans for real estate investment “is a long-term opportunity
for an organization like ours,” Pink said.  Lenders will take “logical low-risk steps while everybody
is getting comfortable with a new investment class in a new
geography,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net . 