-- Prudential to Buy Hartford Life Unit for $615 Million
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-09-27T21:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/prudential-financial-to-buy-hartford-life-unit-for-615-million.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  agreed to
buy a life insurance business from  Hartford Financial Services
Group Inc. (HIG) , which is divesting operations to focus on property-
casualty coverage.  Prudential, the second-largest U.S. life insurer, will make
a $615 million cash payment as part of the agreement, which is
structured as a reinsurance deal, the companies said today in
statements. Hartford advanced 2.1 percent to $19.70 in extended
trading at 4:48 p.m. in New York after saying it would get a net
statutory capital benefit of about $1.5 billion from the deal,
including the cash payment.  Hartford Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee , 58, is
focusing on property-casualty coverage, such as commercial
insurance and auto policies, after  reaching deals  this year to
sell a broker-dealer, retirement-plans business and individual-
annuities distribution unit. Hartford trades for less than in
2010 when it paid back a taxpayer rescue, as lower bond yields
and stock-market fluctuations hurt results from life insurance
and annuities in the U.S. and  Japan .  “Our core competency is not managing interest-rate bets,
equity-market bets, or foreign exchange,” McGee said in an
interview today before the announcement. “Shareholders aren’t
going to pay us for managing those risks.”  Strangfeld’s Target  Hartford said it will turn over about $7 billion of general
account assets to help cover obligations. The transaction is
expected to be completed early next year, and will cover about
700,000 policies with a face amount of approximately $135
billion, Prudential said.  Prudential CEO John Strangfeld, 58, is targeting return on
equity of at least 13 percent next year as he integrates Japan-
based units that he purchased from  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  in 2011. Strangfeld said in August that Prudential had
about $4 billion in cash and short-term investments at the
parent company and that most of the funds can be used to repay
debt, be redeployed or support operations. The insurer’s return
on equity was 11 percent to 11.5 percent last year.  Hartford said its employees at the individual life unit
will be offered positions with  Newark , New Jersey-based
Prudential.  The life business had net income of $36 million in the
second quarter, compared with $46 million a year earlier,
according to a regulatory filing from Hartford, which is based
in the Connecticut city of the same name. In addition to
property-casualty insurance units, McGee will also retain a
mutual funds operation and group-benefits, which provides life
policies and disability coverage through employers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  