-- Rain in Western Ivory Coast Lifts Cocoa Crop Expectations
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2012-09-27T13:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/rain-in-western-ivory-coast-raises-cocoa-farmers-expectations.html
Favorable weather in western  Ivory
Coast  is boosting cocoa farmers’ expectations for the 2012-13
harvest, which starts next week in the world’s top grower.  “It is raining at the moment almost every afternoon for
about two or three hours, and then it is sunny,” Alassane
Sogodogo, manager of a cocoa cooperative based in Para, near the
country’s border with Liberia, said by phone on Sept. 24. “It
is good weather for cocoa.”  Ivory Coast accounts for 34 percent of the world’s cocoa
output, the key ingredient in chocolate. Insufficient rains may
mean pods don’t develop properly, while overly wet weather
brings diseases like black pod rot fungus and can slow bean-
drying times. The country’s west is the main producing area for
cocoa.  The West African nation has started a “small rainy
season,” marked by light, regular rainfall, Antoine Kouassi
Koffi, an agro-meteorology engineer at the country’s National
Meteorological Service, said by phone. The scattered rains and
sun are “very good for the development of the young pods
currently on the trees,” Koffi said. Moderate rains are
expected to continue to early November, he said.  Normal Pods  Ivory Coast’s main cocoa crop starts on Oct. 1 and runs
until the end of March. A smaller harvest is reaped from April
to Sept. 31. Production will rise to 1.37 million metric tons in
the new season from 1.34 million tons this year, the Economist
Intelligence Unit said in a report dated Sept. 1.  December-delivery cocoa dropped for a second day on the
NYSE Liffe market in London, falling 0.6 percent to 1,587 pounds
($2,576) a ton by 1:55 p.m.  “Pods are developing normally,” Mamadou Kone, head of a
cooperative in western town of Duekoue, said by phone on Sept.
24. Kone, who also represents farmers on the state-owned Coffee
Cocoa Council, which regulates the Ivorian industry, said the
weather may boost output for the main cocoa harvest as pods
currently on the trees will be picked in January.  Growers have expressed concern that Ivorian authorities
failed to distribute enough fertilizers and pesticides to them,
Sogodogo said. “The ones who can afford have been able to buy
some but most of the farmers are waiting for the new campaign to
begin to treat their farms,” he said.  In the east, farmers said they are worried about a lack of
rain, according to Bile-Bile, head of a cooperative in the
eastern town of Abengourou. It’s rained only twice in the past
10 days in his region, he said. “I’m very worried because it’s
also very hot”, he said by phone on Sept. 25.  No rain was reported in the town of Dimbokro, located 90
kilometers (56 miles) east of the capital, Yamoussoukro, between
Sept. 11 and Sept. 20, according to the data from Ivory Coast’s
National Meteorological Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  