-- Rand Falls Most in a Week After Moody’s Cuts South Africa Rating
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-09-27T16:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/rand-falls-most-in-a-week-after-moody-s-cuts-south-africa-rating.html
The rand fell the most in a week
and bond yields rose after Moody’s Investor Service cut  South
Africa ’s sovereign rating one level, citing the government’s
inability to deal with economic and political challenges.  The nation’s currency retreated as much as 0.6 percent, the
most since Sept. 20, and traded less than 0.1 percent weaker at
8.2367 by 6:15 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on benchmark 6.75
percent bonds due 2021 climbed six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 6.50 percent after falling to a record 6.44
percent yesterday.  Moody’s lowered its rating to Baa1 from A3, maintaining a
negative outlook on the country’s debt. The move came a day
before South African  government bonds  are included in Citigroup
Inc.’s World Government Bond Index, which is used as a benchmark
by money managers overseeing $2 trillion, from the close of
trade tomorrow.  “This is not unexpected; Moody’s changed the outlook to
negative roughly 12 months ago so we were in that period where
we knew that they would possibly look to follow through with the
downgrade,” said Adriaan du Toit, a fixed-income analyst at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg. “Our sense was the
probability of the downgrade was significantly greater than 50
percent.”  As much as $7 billion of foreign investment may follow from
funds that track the index, Citigroup’s Johannesburg-based Sub-
Sahara African strategist  Leon Myburgh  said yesterday. Many
funds have rules preventing them from buying the bonds before
the inclusion date.  “There should be considerable demand for rand when the
deadline kicks in,” Bruce Donald, a currency strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, wrote in a note to
clients today. “We doubt that many players will be short rand
going into Friday.”  Foreign investors  bought  a net 2.6 billion rand ($317
million) of South African bonds yesterday, bringing the total
this year to 78.8 billion rand, a record for any single year,
according to JSE Ltd. data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  