-- Transocean Given Month to Halt Brazil Operations After Spill
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-09-27T19:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/transocean-given-month-to-halt-brazil-operations-after-spill-1-.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s
largest offshore drilling company, was ordered by a Brazilian
court to cease within 30 days operations in the country, where
it supplies eight rigs to  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Latin
America’s largest oil producer by market value.  Transocean “is vigorously pursuing the overturn or
suspension of the preliminary injunction, including through an
appeal to the Superior Court of Justice,” Transocean said in a
statement distributed by Marketwire. “Absent relief from the
courts, Transocean will be required to comply.”  The order is part of a criminal investigation into an
estimated 3,000-barrel leak in November at  Chevron Corp.’s (CVX)  Frade
field. Transocean, which has a total of 10 rigs in Brazil,
operated the rig at Frade. The rigs are crucial for meeting
Petrobras’s production targets, Maria das Gracas Foster, chief
executive officer of the Brazilian producer, said Sept. 20.  “If they shut them down it’s going to hurt Petrobras,
that’s why Petrobras and the Brazilian oil regulator are doing
everything in their power to help them with this court issue,”
said Judson Bailey, head of oil services at International
Strategy & Investment Group. “The clock is ticking. They’ll
appeal and we’ll see what happens from there.”  Shares Fall  State-controlled Petrobras, which produces more than 90
percent of Brazil’s oil, will support Transocean’s legal fight,
Foster said. Transocean supplies about 10 percent of Petrobras’s
offshore rig fleet, according to industry website Rigzone.  Chevron suspended operations in Brazil in March, before a
court mandate to do so. Chevron was served the suspension order
Sept. 25 and will “seek all legal means at our disposal” to
overturn the injunction,  Kurt Glaubitz , a spokesman for the San
Ramon, California-based  oil company , said by e-mail.  Brazil accounted for about 11 percent of Transocean’s
revenue in the first half of 2012, according to the Marketwire
statement.  Transocean slid 1.4 percent to $45.51 at 3:52 p.m. in New
York, while Chevron gained 0.7 percent to $117.13. Petrobras
rose 0.1 percent to 22.80 reais in  Sao Paulo .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  