-- ResCap Bondholders Pull Support for Unit’s Reorganization
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x ,   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-09-27T13:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/rescap-bondholders-pull-support-for-unit-s-reorganization.html
Bondholders of Residential Capital
LLC, the bankrupt mortgage unit of  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , are
ending an agreement to support its reorganization plan.  ResCap’s secured bondholders ended the agreement, Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally, said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement. The bankruptcy process continues to move
forward, she said.  Ally, the former financing arm of General Motors Corp., is
trying to increase its profit to repay U.S. bailouts that gave
the Treasury Department a 74 percent stake. ResCap, based in  New
York , filed for bankruptcy in May with plans to sell most of its
assets and resolve legal claims related to residential mortgage-
backed securities.  “The agreement between Ally and ResCap’s third-lien
bondholders has been terminated by the bondholders,” Proia said
in the statement. “Ally’s agreement with ResCap is unaffected
by this action, as is ResCap’s agreement with the RMBS
investors.”  Ally had said it had the support of a group of the junior
secured noteholders. As of June, noteholders included  Axa SA (CS) ’s
Alliance Bernstein unit, Appaloosa Management LP and Marathon
Asset Management LP, according to a court filing.  Hedge Funds  The potential deal came after ResCap bondholders including
 John Paulson ’s Paulson & Co. and  David Tepper ’s Appaloosa
Management hired law firm White & Case LLP in January to oppose
a bankruptcy.  ResCap’s $2.12 billion of junior secured, third-lien notes
dropped 0.3 cent to 100.8 cents on the dollar yesterday,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The securities have
climbed from 70.5 cents at the end of last year. ResCap proposed
a plan in May that would pay investors 105 cents on the dollar.  Ally Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter has said the
company contributed $750 million to cover soured loans at the
bankrupt mortgage unit to insulate itself from legal claims and
“avoid the noise.” He said Aug. 1 on a conference call with
analysts that the reorganization is “on a fast track,” after
an examiner was appointed to investigate the deal between Ally
and its mortgage unit.  “Ally looks forward to continuing to work constructively
with junior secured bondholders toward a broader plan,” Proia
said in the statement.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at   zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ; 