-- ResCap to Begin Talks With Creditors on Reorganization
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h ,   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-09-27T15:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/rescap-to-begin-talks-with-creditors-on-reorganization.html
Residential Capital LLC, the
bankrupt mortgage unit of  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , will start talks
with creditors on a new reorganization plan next month, one day
after a group of bondholders dropped support for the old plan.  ResCap and creditors worked out a process to negotiate a
new plan after U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn on Sept. 11
threatened to end the company’s exclusive control of its
reorganization.  “Until the parties begin speaking with each other, there
won’t be any progress,” Glenn said today in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Manhattan. “There are a lot of difficult issues.”  Last night ResCap confirmed that a group of secured
bondholders had ended their agreement to support the company’s
reorganization plan. ResCap, based in New York, filed for
bankruptcy in May with plans to sell most of its assets and
resolve legal claims related to residential mortgage-backed
securities.  ResCap is also trying to resolve potential objections to an
auction of its mortgage-servicing unit, which is scheduled for
next month. The so-called stalking-horse, or lead, bidder is a
unit of  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , which has agreed to buy
the mortgage business for more than $2.4 billion, unless outbid
at the auction.  Ally had said it had support for ResCap’s reorganization
plan from a group of the junior secured noteholders. As of June,
noteholders included  Axa SA (CS) ’s Alliance Bernstein unit, Appaloosa
Management LP and Marathon Asset Management LP, according to a
court filing.  That support deal came after some ResCap bondholders
including  John Paulson ’s Paulson & Co. and  David Tepper ’s
Appaloosa Management hired law firm White & Case LLP in January
to oppose a bankruptcy.  Bondholder attorney Christopher Shore told Glenn that the
investors he represents will participate in creditor talks.  The bondholders “are looking to renegotiate their deal,”
said  Kirk Ludtke , an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC, the
Stamford, Connecticut-based broker-dealer. Ending the agreement
may also allow the investors to sell the securities and lock in
profits, he said.  “This development shows that the strategy to use
bankruptcy to fix the ResCap liabilities may not be as easy as
the Geithner Treasury and Ally management supposed,” Chris
Whalen, a senior managing director at Tangent Capital Partners
LLC in New York, said in an e-mail.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  