-- Retail Groups Battle Visa Over Records in Swipe-Fee Case
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-09-27T23:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/retail-groups-battle-visa-over-records-access-in-swipe-fee-case.html
A lawyer for retail groups seeking
to derail an estimated $7.25 billion settlement with  Visa Inc. (V) 
and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  over credit-card fees charged to merchants
told a judge he needs access to all records in the case,
including some that Visa deemed “highly confidential.”  Jeffrey Shinder, a lawyer for at least four trade
associations that oppose the deal, including the National
Community Pharmacists Association and the National Association
of Convenience Stores, made his argument today for release of
the records in federal court in Brooklyn, New York.  “We’re simply asking for our clients to have what they had
throughout the litigation,” he told U.S. Magistrate Judge James Orenstein. Orenstein declined to make a ruling today and asked
Shinder to revise his request.  The settlement, made public in July, would put to rest a
seven-year-long case accusing Visa and MasterCard of conspiring
with major banks to fix the fees charged to merchants when
customers pay with credit cards. In addition to Shinder’s
clients, several other retail associations oppose the deal,
including the  National Retail Federation  and the National
Restaurant Association.  Visa, based in  San Francisco , has alleged that Shinder may
present a risk for “inadvertent disclosure” of the company’s
business secrets because he and his firm also represent its
competitors. Shinder served as a lawyer for  Discover Financial
Services (DFS)  in the interchange fee suit, according to court
records. His firm, Constantine Cannon, is also advising a
mobile-payment venture, the Merchant Customer Exchange, he said
in a Sept. 25 letter he submitted to the court.  Wal-Mart, Target  The Merchant Customer Exchange, or MCX, was formed by
merchants including  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , which
also oppose the credit card fee settlement.  The deal, which requires approval from a federal judge,
would be the largest-ever recovery in an antitrust case and
would include about 7 million merchants, according to Robbins
Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP, a  law firm  representing plaintiffs
that support the settlement.  Plaintiffs have until Oct. 19 to submit a formal motion
seeking preliminary approval of the deal. K. Craig Wildfang, a
lead lawyer for the plaintiffs, told Orenstein in court today
that “we’re down to the fine-drafting issues.”  Critics of the settlement have argued that it does little
to remedy merchants’ complaints about the payment networks and
offers Visa and MasterCard too much freedom to raise fees in the
future.  ‘Worse Off’  “Merchants and their customers are actually worse off than
if they had gone to trial and lost,” NRF general counsel
 Mallory Duncan  said in a Sept. 25 phone interview.  U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin ’s office has told retailers
that they may lose out on legislative opportunities to rein in
credit-card fees if they support the settlement. Durbin, a
Democrat from  Illinois , secured the inclusion of limits on swipe
fees for debit cards in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, trimming
revenue for the largest U.S. banks by about $8 billion.  The amendment has been “beneficial for everyone except a
handful of very large banks” which were getting “truly just a
windfall, and an ill-gotten one,” Douglas Kantor, counsel to
the National Association of Convenience Stores, said in a Sept.
25 phone interview.  Visa Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Joseph W. Saunders told investors in a July conference call that he
expects the settlement to receive preliminary approval this
year.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  