-- RIM Posts Narrower Loss Than Estimated Amid Overseas Growth
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-09-27T22:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/rim-posts-narrower-loss-than-estimated-helped-by-overseas-users.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  reported a
narrower loss than analysts had projected, helped by the growth
of BlackBerry subscribers in overseas markets such as  India ,
 South Africa  and  Indonesia . The shares jumped 25 percent.  The fiscal second-quarter loss was 27 cents a share,
excluding some expenses, Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM said today
in a statement. Analysts had estimated a loss of 47 cents on
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The results show that RIM can gain customers in lower-
income markets such as Asia and  Africa , even as it loses ground
in the U.S. to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices built on  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. The company also did a better job
conserving cash than some analysts predicted, curtailing
operating expenses 7.9 percent. Cash and investments grew to
$2.3 billion by the end of last quarter, up from $2.2 billion
three months earlier.  “They didn’t burn through cash, and that’s what’s calming
investors,” said Neeraj Monga, an analyst at Veritas Investment
Research in Toronto who rates RIM a sell. “Investors are
thinking, ‘Perhaps they have a chance to come back.’”  RIM shares  soared as high as $8.90 in extended trading
after the report. The stock, which lost 68 percent of its value
in the past year, had closed at $7.14 in  New York .  BlackBerry Sales  Sales fell 31 percent to $2.87 billion in the period, which
ended Sept. 1, topping a projection of $2.47 billion.  The company sold 7.4 million BlackBerry phones and 130,000
PlayBook tablets last quarter. Analysts on average predicted 6.9
million smartphones and 217,000 tablets. Apple, meanwhile, sold
5 million units of its latest iPhone in a single weekend.  RIM’s subscriber base climbed to 80 million at the end of
last quarter, up from 78 million. Still, phones in those markets
carry lower selling prices, making it hard to squeeze as much
revenue from those customers.  “While this is a much more positive outcome than a
shrinking subscriber base, it does not mean that the company has
stopped the slide in average selling price,” said  Colin Gillis ,
an analyst at  BGC Partners LP (BGCP)  in New York who rates RIM a sell.
“It is too soon to tell if the company can rebound.”  The BlackBerry 10 lineup, due in the first calendar quarter
of next year, is the linchpin of RIM’s comeback plan. The new
phones have been delayed at least a year, making it harder for
the company to compete with the latest Apple and Android
devices. At RIM’s software developer conference this week in  San
Jose ,  California , Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins said
the debut of BB10 is “a few short months away,” without being
more specific.  Market Share  The delays mean the BlackBerry 10 will miss the holiday
season, when a clutch of new Android devices and phones built on
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows 8 software will hit the market.  RIM’s share of the global smartphone market dropped to 4.8
percent in the second calendar quarter, from 12 percent a year
earlier, according to research firm IDC. Still, Heins said this
week that BB10 will have a “clear shot” at being the world’s
third-largest mobile operating system. That would put it behind
Android and Apple’s iOS, and ahead of Microsoft.  In the meantime, RIM faces a “very aggressive environment
in terms of pricing,” Heins said today on a conference call.
Second-quarter results were “still well below where we need to
be, and this is why we are committed to making difficult choices
and necessary changes,” he said.  Job Cuts  Heins, who became CEO in January, has embarked on a cost-
cutting plan to stem losses at the company. He’s eliminating
almost a third of its workforce and shutting down manufacturing
sites to boost efficiency.  RIM posted a net loss of $235 million, or 45 cents a share,
compared with net income of $329 million, or 63 cents, a year
earlier. RIM expects to have an operating loss this quarter and
face “continued pressure” on its operating results for the
remainder of the fiscal year, Chief Financial Officer Brian Bidulka told analysts on the call.  RIM also has hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  RBC Capital
Markets  to help explore its strategic options. Heins told
analysts today that he’s met with CEOs at various organizations
over the past several months to discuss BB10 licensing and
partnerships. He plans to continue meeting potential partners
and hasn’t set a specific timeframe for the end of the review.
Heins has said in the past that he hasn’t ruled out a sale of
the company, though that’s not his focus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  