-- Rinehart’s Hancock Calls Suit Over Mine Land ‘Curious’
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2012-09-27T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/rinehart-s-hancock-calls-suit-over-mine-land-curious-.html
Wright Prospecting Pty’s lawsuit
staking a claim in Australian iron ore assets is “curious” as
Gina Rinehart, Asia’s richest woman, announced a mining
partnership for the properties with  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  seven years
ago, an executive at her company said.  Wright Prospecting “waited until now, when construction of
the Hope 4 mine is nearing completion, and has provided none of
the significant funding required for such, to lodge such an
unusual bid for unearned late participation,” Hancock
Prospecting Pty Chief Financial Officer Jay Newby said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Wright Prospecting is seeking 50 percent of Hancock’s stake
in three tenements, known as Hope Downs 4, 5 and 6, according to
a copy of the writ filed Sept. 24 in Perth in the Supreme Court
of Western Australia. The company was founded by Peter Wright,
who discovered the iron ore deposits with Rinehart’s father,
Lang Hancock. Rinehart inherited the mining assets and is
chairman of the company Hancock founded.  Hancock Prospecting and Rio Tinto, the world’s second-
largest exporter of iron ore, jointly own the Hope Downs assets
under a 2005 agreement. The $1.6 billion Hope Downs 4 project,
half owned by Rio Tinto, will have an annual capacity of 15
million metric tons once it’s operating next year, according to
an August statement from the London-based miner. It’ll be
Rinehart’s second operating mine, after the $1 billion Hope
Downs 1 operation.  Australia is the world’s biggest exporter of iron ore.  2005 Announcement  Rinehart announced the joint venture with Rio Tinto at a
2005 iron ore conference in Perth. Michael Wright, then a
principal at Wright Prospecting, and other executives of the
Wright company attended that meeting and the announcement was
widely covered, Newby said, attaching related news reports.  Wright Prospecting was “aware of the transaction that
year, some seven years ago, and chose not to dispute ownership
of the tenements,” Newby said.  Wright Prospecting declined to comment on Newby’s
statement.  Peter Wright’s heirs, Angela Bennett and Michael Wright,
were ranked the 14th richest Australians last year on BRW’s Rich
200 list. Michael Wright died in April.  Wright Prospecting also sued in 2010, claiming royalties
from Hope Downs 1 weren’t paid into the partnership. Supreme
Court Justice Rene Le Miere consolidated the two lawsuits and
set a conference for November, when a trial may be scheduled.  35th Richest  Rinehart is the 35th richest person in the world, with a
net worth of $18.8 billion, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index. Her wealth has declined this year by 6.8
percent, or $1.4 billion, as iron ore prices slumped 25 percent
with the economy slowing in China, the biggest importer.  Rio Tinto said in August it’s expanding iron-ore mines in
the Pilbara region to 353 million tons a year by the first half
of 2015 from the current capacity of 230 million tons.  Wright Prospecting, in its lawsuit over Hope Downs 4, 5 and
6, accused Hancock of breach of trust for selling the property
without its consent and breaches of fiduciary obligations,
according to the writ.  Wright sought an accounting of all profits earned by
Hancock from those assets and compensation for the breaches. It
also asked the court to declare Hancock held half the property
in trust for Wright, and to award it any proceeds from the sale
and royalties Hancock received.  Families’ Dispute  The two families have been in an 11-year dispute over a
property called Rhodes Ridge, with a judge having awarded
Rinehart’s 25 percent stake in it to Wright. Rinehart appealed
and a decision is pending.  The Hancock and Wright partnership owned the Hope Downs 4,
5 and 6 tenements in the 1970s, Wright said in the statement.
The tenements were re-awarded in 1989 by the Western Australian
government and held by Hancock on the partnership’s behalf,
according to Wright.  Lang Hancock and Peter Wright’s lifelong friendship and
business relationship appeared to be deteriorating by the early
1980s, according to court records. They initially agreed in 1983
to carve up some of their properties, with each having the
option of taking full control of their portion, records show.
The Hope Downs assets weren’t included in that division.  Rinehart was also sued last year by three of her four
children, who are seeking to have her removed as trustee of a
multibillion dollar trust.  Grandchildren’s Trust  The Hope Margaret Hancock Trust was created by Lang Hancock
for the benefit of his grandchildren. The trust holds 23.45
percent of the voting shares of Hancock Prospecting and receives
dividends from the company.  Rinehart had warned her children that taking control of the
shares would push them into bankruptcy because they would have
to pay hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes, according to
court documents. According to Hancock Prospecting’s
constitution, the shares can’t be sold to anyone outside the
family or used as collateral for loans.  The case is between Wright Prospecting Pty and Hancock
Prospecting Pty. Civ2617/2012. Supreme Court of Western
Australia (Perth).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan in Hong Kong at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  