-- Romania Central Bank Holds Rate Unchanged for 4th Meeting
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-09-27T14:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/romania-central-bank-holds-key-rate-unchanged-for-fourth-meeting.html
The Romanian central bank kept its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged for a fourth meeting to weigh
the effect of accelerating food-price inflation as economic
growth slows.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei left its monetary-policy
rate at 5.25 percent, according to an e-mailed statement today.
The decision matched the estimates of all 18 economists  in a
Bloomberg  survey. It also left its minimum  reserve requirements 
on foreign-exchange deposits at 20 percent and the ratio for leu
deposits at 15 percent.  “I think the broad monetary policy conditions remain
adequate and are sufficiently tight,” Governor Mugur Isarescu
said. “It’s true that a slight easing comes from the exchange
rate depreciation.”  Romanian policy makers have kept  interest rates  on hold
because of political turmoil that pushed the leu to a record low
and damage to this year’s harvest, as central banks in the
region cut or consider lowering borrowing costs to boost
flagging economic growth.  “Taking into consideration that Romania’s high inflation
is driven by shocks coming from the supply side and that the
total demand continues to be subdued, we believe that the
central bank will prefer to keep the key rate unchanged for this
year,” Florentina Cozmanca, a senior economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland  Romania  SA, said.  Leu Reaction  The Romanian leu kept gains after the rate announcement,
rising as much as 0.15 percent to 4.5110 per euro, and was
little changed at 4.5182 per euro at 5:21 p.m. in Bucharest.  The central bank lowered borrowing costs by one percentage
point before pausing May 2 after the government collapsed and
the economy entered its second recession in three years.  Gross
domestic product  will grow 0.9 percent this year compared with
2.5 percent in 2011, the International Monetary Fund forecasts.  Neighboring  Hungary ’s central bank lowered its two-week
deposit rate to 6.5 percent for a second month on Sept. 25 and
forecast further cuts to aid an ailing economy, while the Czech
central bank may reduce its main rate by a quarter-point to 0.25
percent today, according to all 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Inflation in Romania, which has changed governments twice
this year, may accelerate more than the central bank’s 2012
forecast of 3.2 percent because of political instability before
general elections and a drought that’s boosted prices for
imports and food, Isarescu said Aug. 6. This year’s rate is
likely to stay within the bank’s target of 2 percent to 4
percent, he said at the time.  Inflation Rate  The  inflation  rate reached 3.9 percent in August, the
highest in a year, as the drought pushed up food costs,
exceeding the central bank’s expectations, Isarescu said today.  When asked whether there are more factors pointing towards
a monetary policy tightening, Isarescu said he can’t give a
“positive answer now” as the central bank is still assessing
consumer-prices growth.  “We forecast that from September the inflation rate will
be outside the variation band around the central bank’s target
and that it will reach 4.6 percent in December from a year
earlier,” Cozmanca also said.  Target Band  She also said that the country’s 2013 inflation rate will
probably re-enter the central bank’s target band of 2.5 percent,
plus or minus 1 percentage point, in the second half of next
year and “depending on this moment the central bank could start
cutting the key rate.”  A weakening currency has limited the room policy makers
have to lower rates, Erik de Vrijer, head of the IMF’s mission
to Romania, said in an Aug. 14 interview. A tightening of rates
may even be discussed, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  