-- Romney Touts His State’s Health Law While Bashing Obama Overhaul
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-09-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/romney-touts-his-state-s-health-law-while-bashing-obama-overhaul.html
Republican  Mitt Romney  cited a
Massachusetts health-care law he backed as showing his
“empathy,” then later reiterated his pledge to repeal national
legislation modeled after the state’s measure as he and
President  Barack Obama  crisscrossed  Ohio  yesterday.  The two candidates also accused each other of being too
weak to confront  China  on trade and lacking plans to create jobs
as each returned to focusing on the economy after several days
during which turmoil in the  Middle East  dominated the
presidential campaign.  Obama and Romney will shadow each other again today in
 Virginia , like Ohio a critical battleground state.  Health care figured in yesterday’s back-and-forth after
Romney broached the issue during an interview with NBC News
while he stumped in Ohio.  He had been asked about ways he could better show that he
understands challenges facing most Americans, a question sparked
by the recent release of a video recorded at a private
fundraiser in May at which Romney said that 47 percent of voters
view themselves as victims dependent on government help.  Romney responded to the question by mentioning the health-
care law he helped pass in  Massachusetts  as that state’s
governor. He usually doesn’t bring up the measure, which served
as a blueprint for the national health-care overhaul Obama
championed and that Republicans -- including Romney --
consistently criticize and say should be repealed.  ‘Everybody’ Insured  “Don’t forget -- I got everybody in my state insured,”
Romney said in the interview conducted before a rally in Toledo,
the last of three he held in Ohio yesterday. “One hundred
percent of the kids in our state had health insurance. I don’t
think there’s anything that shows more empathy and care about
the people of this country than that kind of record.”  At the rally, Romney then repeated his vow to repeal the
national health-care law if he wins the White House, terming the
measure “exhibit No. 1 of the president’s political philosophy,
and that is that government knows better than people how to run
their lives.”  Obama deputy campaign manager  Stephanie Cutter  said that
while Romney was “working overtime to rehabilitate his image
after being caught writing off half of all Americans to a room
of high-dollar donors,” his effort fell short.  In a statement, she said that while Romney “held up the
Massachusetts health care law as evidence of his empathy for
people, minutes later he promised to repeal Obamacare, which is
modeled after his own law.” That’s “not empathetic,” she
said.  Early Balloting  In six days, Obama and Romney meet in Denver for the first
of three face-to-face debates. By the time of their third debate
on Oct. 22, voters already will be able to cast early, in-person
ballots in six of the nine top battleground states, adding a new
urgency to the campaign swings by the candidates. Early voting
in Ohio starts Oct. 2.  After  Florida , Ohio is the second-largest state among the
battlegrounds that strategists from both parties say will decide
the Nov. 6 election. No Republican has won the White House
without carrying Ohio, which has 18 of the 270 Electoral College
votes needed.  At appearances in the state yesterday, the two candidates
sparred from afar over China.  “The president has had multiple opportunities to label
China as a currency manipulator,” Romney said in Toledo. “He
hasn’t. I will.”  Trade Figures  The U.S. had a $295 billion trade deficit with China last
year, an 8.2 percent increase over 2010. A report last month by
the  Economic Policy Institute  in  Washington  said the imbalance
between the world’s two largest economies has resulted in the
loss of 2.7 million U.S. jobs in the past decade.  Obama said during an event at Bowling Green State
University that Romney’s claim he would get tough on trade with
China is “just not credible.”  The president said he’s brought more trade cases against
China than any previous administration while accusing Romney, in
his former job as a private-equity executive, of profiting from
companies that send jobs overseas.  “When you see these ads he’s running promising to get
tough on China,” Obama said, “it feels a lot like that fox
saying, ‘You know, we need more secure chicken coops.’”  ‘Victims’ Remark  Obama, as he has since the video of Romney’s “victims”
comment surfaced, sought to use the Republican’s words against
him.  “As I look out on this crowd I don’t see a lot of victims,
I see hard-working Ohioans,” Obama said. “We don’t believe in
the government helping those who won’t help themselves. But we
do believe in opportunity.”  Obama also spoke at Ohio’s Kent State University.  Romney kept up his attacks on Obama’s economic record.  “We can’t afford four more years like the last four
years,” Romney said at a spring-wire manufacturing plant in the
Cleveland suburb of Bedford Heights, the second of his three
Ohio appearances. “We’ve got to get this economy going again,”
he said, arguing that he knows how to do that and Obama doesn’t.  One of Romney’s challenges in making his case in Ohio is
that the state’s unemployment rate in August was 7.2 percent,
lower than the  national figure  of 8.1 percent. Still, the state
has lost 9.3 percent of its manufacturing jobs over the last
four years.  Ohio Polls  A Washington Post  poll  released Sept. 25 showed Obama
leading in Ohio among likely voters, 52 percent to 44 percent.
The survey showed that 36 percent of all Ohio voters said they
have been contacted by the Obama campaign, while 29 percent said
that of Romney.  A Quinnipiac University/ New York  Times/CBS News poll
released yesterday gave Obama a 53 percent to 43 percent
advantage there, including a 25-percentage-point lead among
women.  “The field is looking like it’s narrowing for them,”  Jen Psaki , an Obama re-election spokeswoman told reporters on Air
Force One traveling to Ohio. “We’d rather be us than them.”  Romney and his aides said that even with Obama’s lead in
polls, it’s too early to dismiss the Republican’s chances in
Ohio.  Romney said his three debates with Obama will change the
race’s dynamic.  “I’m absolutely convinced that when people see the two of
us talk about our direction for America they’re going to support
me because I know what it takes to make the economy going again,
and the president has proven he does not,” Romney told ABC News
in an interview from Ohio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Toledo, Ohio at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Kent, Ohio at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  