-- Rousseff Auto Policy Lifts Iochpe Market Value: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-09-27T15:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/rousseff-auto-policy-lifts-iochpe-market-value-corporate-brazil.html
Iochpe-Maxion SA (MYPK3) , the Brazilian
supplier of auto parts to  Ford Motor Co. (F) , is set to extend a
two-month rally that has made it the Americas’ most expensive
stock in the industry as tax cuts fuel record car sales.  Iochpe has gained 31 percent since this year’s low on July
23 and will probably gain an additional 24 percent in the next
12 months, according to the average of 16 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. It trades at 21 times reported earnings, the
highest among peers in the Western Hemisphere with a market
value above $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Trinidad and Tobago-based  Ansa McAl Ltd. (AMCL)  ranks second with a
ratio of 19.8.  TRW Automotive Holdings Corp. (TRW) , the world’s
biggest vehicle-safety equipment supplier, is the cheapest at
6.6 times.  Reducing levies on automobiles and spurring  car loans  are
key parts of President Dilma Rousseff’s plan to boost growth in
the world’s second-largest emerging market. In May, Brazil cut
the so-called IPI tax, helping drive vehicle sales from this
year’s low of 249,500 in February to a record-high 420,100 in
August, according to the national car dealership association.  “Iochpe has room to keep rising,” Joao Pedro Brugger, who
helps oversee 220 million reais ($108.3 million) at Leme
Investimentos including Iochpe shares, said by telephone from
Florianopolis, Brazil. “The government has signaled that it
sees the auto sector as the one that can lead the recovery in
manufacturing, which makes companies such as auto-parts makers a
good investment opportunity.”  Lending Incentives  In addition to the tax cuts, the government created
incentives to encourage auto lending by reducing  reserve
requirements  so banks could increase credit for car purchases.
In exchange for the tax breaks, automakers pledged to avoid
layoffs, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in May.  Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , facing
700 million euros ($901 million) of losses in  Europe , said in a
statement Sept. 21 that Brazilian incentives encouraged the
Turin, Italy-based carmaker to build a factory in the country.
Fiat’s Chrysler Group LLC, Ford and General Motors Co. said U.S.
sales in August rose more than analysts estimated as new models
sent the market to its fastest sales pace since August 2009,
when the U.S. government offered incentives for buyers to
exchange older vehicles for new models.  Sao Paulo-based Iochpe’s rally from this year’s low in July
gives it a market value of $1.2 billion and compares with a 16
percent rise for the Bovespa Small-Cap index. TRW Automotive
gained 23 percent during the same period.  ‘Own Legs’  While stimulus can boost the industry for a while, shares
may pare gains once the tax breaks announced this year end, said
Cristiane Fensterseifer, who helps manage 5.5 billion reais at
Geracao Futuro Corretora de Valores SA in  Porto Alegre , Brazil.  “It all depends on how the economy is doing when the tax
cuts expire,” Fensterseifer said. “There’s always the risk
that the stimulus will be withdrawn before the industry is well
enough to walk on its own legs.”  Tax cuts on new car purchases that were scheduled to expire
in August will remain in place until the end of October, Mantega
announced last month.  Iochpe declined to comment on its share valuation and the
impact Brazil’s stimulus will have on its business, Luis
Fernando de Abreu, manager of  investor relations , said by e-
mail.  It “makes sense” for Iochpe shares to be trading at a
premium relative to its foreign competitors as the growth
outlook for the Brazilian  auto industry  is better than in most
countries, Mario Bernardes Junior, an analyst at Banco do Brasil
SA, said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo .  ‘Temporary Problems’  “The car industry has significant room for growth in
Brazil,” Bernardes, who  rates  the stock the equivalent of buy,
said by phone from Sao Paulo. “Even when it faces some
temporary problems, it can count on the government to act and
smooth things out.”  Iochpe, which also supplies Daimler AG and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  in Brazil, is also benefiting from Brazil’s pledge to
increase investments in infrastructure with increased spending
on railroads, Brugger said. The company’s  AmstedMaxion  unit,
which makes rail cars, accounted for 8.2 percent of Iochpe’s net
revenue in the first half of 2012, according to a  statement  on
the company’s website.  Rousseff said on Aug. 15 that Brazil will sell licenses to
build and operate roads and railways, requiring as much as 133
billion reais in investments over 30 years.  “As positive as the outlook for light vehicles can be,
it’s a good thing for Iochpe that it has a more diversified
business,” Brugger said. “It doesn’t depend only on one
specific segment to generate sales.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice in Sao Paulo at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos in  New York  at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  