-- Royal Mistress’s Desk in $32 Million Christie’s Auction
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-09-27T10:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/royal-mistress-s-desk-in-32-million-christie-s-auction.html
A desk once owned by a French
king’s mistress is the top lot in a $32 million  London  sale.  The Louis XV Japanese lacquer secretaire, with a low
estimate of 3 million pounds ($4.85 million), belonged to Madame
de Pompadour, Christie’s International said today in an e-mail.
It is among about 50 high-value pieces in the evening event on
Dec. 6 with a total formal estimate of more than 20 million
pounds.  Auction houses are trying to broaden the market for
“masterpiece” objects as demand for other antiques declines.  “There’s a wider-than-ever gap between the best and the
merely good,” said Alan Rubin, director of the London- and
Paris-based French furniture dealers  Pelham Galleries . “There
are people around with large amounts of money who like the idea
of buying the ultimate luxury objects. There aren’t so many who
want to furnish their homes with lots of antiques.”  The sale of French 18th-century furnishings is titled
“L’amour n’a pas de prix” (“Love has no price”). The items
have been in the collection of a Paris-based Iranian
businessman,  Djahanguir Riahi  and his wife, though Christie’s
wouldn’t divulge the identity of the current owners.  Rubin identified the Riahis as being among Paris’s most
prominent collectors of high-value 18th-century pieces, many
bought at auction.  This will be the second sale Christie’s has held of rococo
furniture and artworks collected by the couple. In 2000, it
raised $40 million from a group of pieces that it bought
outright from the Riahis. Christie’s said it has no financial
interest in the material to be sold in London.  Price Rises  French 18th-century furniture by the most collectable
cabinet makers has climbed in price. The Riahis’ Louis XV
Japanese lacquer secretaire, signed by Bernard II van
Risenburgh, has a high estimate of 5 million pounds. It was sold
by Goodwood House, Sussex, at auction for 496,500 pounds
including fees in 1993.  The sale includes a Louis XV Japanese lacquer and tulipwood
bureau plat by Joseph Baumhauer, estimated at 2 million pounds
to 3 million pounds, and a pair of Louis XVI ormolu-mounted
Qianlong celadon porcelain vases, priced 400,000 pounds to
600,000 pounds.  The bronze furniture of Diego Giacometti, brother of the
sculptor Alberto, has also acquired luxury status.  Furniture designed by both soared above estimate when
Christie’s sold items from the estate of the late Bruno
Giacometti (1907-2012), the youngest of the three brothers, in
Zurich on Sept. 24. Prices were boosted by the guaranteed
authenticity and prestige of the Giacometti provenance, dealers
said.  A glass-topped “grecque rectangulaire” table by Diego led
the furniture with a price of 576,000 Swiss francs ($612,000)
against a low estimate of 120,000 Swiss francs.  All 36 lots sold, raising 5.4 million Swiss francs for the
 Dr. Beat Richner Foundation  Kantha Bopha Children’s Hospitals in
 Cambodia .  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on arts,  Jason Harper  on
cars,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology and  Laurie Muchnick  on
books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 