-- Sharp Said to Pledge Assets to Obtain 360 Billion Yen Loan
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2012-09-27T10:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/sharp-said-to-pledge-assets-to-obtain-360-billion-yen-loan-1-.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the Japanese TV maker
cutting more than 10,000 jobs as it tries to return to profit,
has offered its assets as security for 360 billion yen ($4.6
billion) of loans, said a person familiar with the matter.  The debt is split equally into a revolving credit facility
due in June and a loan that will be syndicated, the person said,
asking not to be identified because the details are private.
Both loans have a claim on Sharp’s assets and the revolver
replaces a 150 billion yen credit arranged last month, the
person said. Sharp had previously used a stake in  Pioneer Corp. (6773) 
and its company headquarters as collateral for the 150 billion
yen loan, Tokyo-based spokeswoman  Miyuki Nakayama  said by
telephone today, declining to confirm whether the new debt had
the same terms or replaces the existing facility.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306)  and Resona Bank Ltd. are lending the funds, along with life
insurers and regional banks, the person said.  Sharp, reeling from record losses, submitted cost-cutting
proposals to its main banks, Mizuho Financial Group and
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial, on Sept. 24, two people with knowledge
of the matter said earlier this week. As well as trimming about
18 percent of its workforce, Sharp plans to sell television
factories in Mexico,  China  and  Malaysia . It’s negotiating with
Foxconn Technology Group to dispose of the plants, those people
said.  Sharp cut its stake in Pioneer to 9.2 percent from 14.3
percent and pledged 15 million Pioneer shares each to Mizuho and
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. as collateral, according to a
Sept. 3 filing to Japan’s  Finance Ministry .  Next June  Sharp plans to return to profit next fiscal year with the
help of the job cuts and cost reductions, President Takashi Okuda said Sept. 14.  “The June due date for the loan means a lot will depend on
the company’s fiscal year earnings results in April-May,”
Fumihito Gotoh, head of Japan credit research at UBS AG in  Tokyo ,
said in a telephone interview today. “The company’s promised
return to operating profit in the fiscal second half is an
important checkpoint.”  Sharp’s shares fell 3.9 percent today to 199 yen in Tokyo,
extending their decline this year to 70 percent. The company’s
200 billion yen of convertible bonds due Sept. 30 next year rose
1.5 percent to 69 yen for 100 yen face value.  Selling Recurrent  The company had 706 billion yen of short-term debt maturing
within 12 months and 314 billion yen in long-term debts at the
end of June, according to its latest quarterly financial
statements. Sharp’s cash and near-cash stood at 218 billion yen
at the time.  Japan’s biggest maker of liquid-crystal panels has already
put up its Osaka headquarters and some factories as debt
collateral, Sharp said Sept. 6. Its  credit rating  has been  cut
to junk  by  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service.  The cutting of 10,000 jobs, or about 18 percent of its
workforce, and the sale of U.S. solar developer Recurrent Energy
LLC were in the plan Sharp presented to its lenders Sept. 24,
people familiar with the plan said earlier.  The company agreed in 2010 to buy closely held Recurrent
for as much as $305 million in cash. Recurrent installs, owns
and operates solar-power systems and sells the generated
electricity to utilities, municipalities and businesses.  Solar Cells  Sharp plans to end production and sales of solar cells and
modules in the U.S. and  Europe  by March as part of a
restructuring,  Kyodo News  said. The company plans to sell three
manufacturing plants for solar products in Japan’s Nara, Osaka
and Toyama prefectures and consolidate production at its Sakai
plant, Kyodo reported today, without saying where it got the
information.  Sharp is negotiating with Foxconn Technology Group to
dispose of the three TV plants in Mexico, China and Malaysia,
the people said. The electronics maker has been renegotiating
terms for a proposed stake sale to Taipei-based Foxconn after
widening its full-year loss forecast eightfold in August,
triggering a slide in its share price.  Foxconn agreed in March to invest 67 billion yen for a 9.9
percent stake in Sharp at 550 yen a share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net ;
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  