-- Shark Attacks Spark Kill Orders to Protect Aussie Beaches
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-09-27T03:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/shark-attacks-spark-kill-orders-to-protect-aussie-beaches.html
The government of  Western Australia 
said it plans to track, catch and if necessary kill sharks
threatening beachgoers after a record five fatal attacks in the
state in the past year.  Officials will be allowed to destroy sharks “posing an
imminent threat,” Fisheries Minister Norman Moore said in an e-
mailed statement today as he announced a A$6.85 million ($7.1
million) protection, research and education program. Previously
the state only issued kill orders following a shark attack.  Tourism operators  in Western Australia are attempting to
lure domestic and international visitors to the state’s 12,000-
kilometer-long (7,500-mile) coastline, which is studded with
pristine beaches. The most recent attack saw a 24-year-old
surfer taken by a five-meter great white shark on July 14 off an
isolated beach about 160 kilometers north of the state capital
Perth. His remains weren’t recovered.  There have been at least 869 shark attacks in the nation
since 1791, 216 of them fatal, according to the Australian Shark
Attack File based at Sydney’s Taronga Zoo. The deaths in Western
Australia in the past year include an American scuba-diving
tourist, a body boarder and a swimmer at Perth’s Cottesloe
Beach, it said.  The state reaped A$5.6 billion from 6.8 million visitors in
the 12 months to March 31, A$2 billion of that from 739,000
international arrivals, according to  government figures . The
 tourism industry  directly employs 46,000 people, or 3.9 percent
of the state’s workforce.  Other measures announced by the government include shark
tagging, helicopter patrols, new jet skis to boost beach safety
and a smartphone application to alert beachgoers of potential
threats.  “These new measures will not only help us to understand
the behavior of sharks but also offer beachgoers greater
protection and confidence as we head into summer,” state
Premier  Colin Barnett  said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ; 