-- Shrinking U.S. Corn Supply Trails Use for First Time in 16 Years
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-09-27T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/shrinking-u-s-corn-supply-trails-use-for-first-time-in-16-years.html
Corn supplies in the U.S., the
world’s biggest grower and exporter, are dropping below last
year’s domestic usage for just the third time in half a century
after a Midwest drought damaged crops from  Ohio  to  Nebraska .  Production this year plus inventories before the harvest
will reach 11.872 billion bushels, less than the 12.33 billion
consumed or exported last year, according to U.S. Department of
Agriculture data and a Bloomberg survey of 29 analysts. Only
twice since 1960 has supply failed to exceed usage from the
previous year, and the last time was in 1996. The USDA will
update its inventory tally tomorrow at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington .  Record Midwest heat in June and July sparked the worst
drought since 1956, causing crop damage that insurers estimate
may double payouts to farmers this year to more than $20
billion. Plunging output in the U.S. would erode global grain
supplies and boost costs that already are forcing production
cuts by meat companies including  Sanderson Farms Inc. (SAFM)  and
ethanol makers including  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)   “Supplies are tighter than they will appear in this
report,” David Smoldt, a vice president at INTL FCStone Inc. in
 West Des Moines ,  Iowa , said in a telephone interview.  Stockpiles on Sept. 1 probably were 1.145 billion bushels,
less than the 1.181 billion the USDA said on Sept. 12, according
to the average of estimates in the Bloomberg survey. While
that’s up from 1.128 billion a year earlier, the 2012 figure was
inflated by an early harvest, the respondents said.  Inflated Numbers  Dry weather allowed farmers before Sept. 1 to collect crops
that normally aren’t ready until October. As of Sept. 21, 39
percent was  harvested , compared with 15 percent a year earlier,
USDA data show. The government said Sept. 12 that 1.2 billion
bushels of this year’s crop were available for consumption
before Sept. 1, about 700 million more than a year earlier.  “The market doesn’t act like we had more than a billion
bushels of carryover, with cash prices at records as harvesting
increased,” Smoldt said.  In Decatur,  Illinois , the hometown of  Archer Daniels
Midland Co. (ADM) , buyers of the grain paid an average premium of 49.8
cents a bushel above the  Chicago  futures price to take delivery
in August, the most for that month in at least four years,
according to data from grain handler CGB Enterprises Inc. A year
earlier, they were paying a 33.5-cent premium.  Paring Gains  The premium is up even as the record harvest pace sent corn
futures down 15 percent from an all-time high of $8.49 a bushel
on Aug. 10. Corn for December delivery closed yesterday at
$7.2475 on the Chicago Board of Trade. Prices still are up 43
percent since June 15, more than any of the 24 commodities
tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index, which is up 12
percent over the same period. The MSCI All-Country World Index
of equities rose 8.2 percent, and Treasuries returned 0.1
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Citi Research told investors on Sept. 25 that the “supply-
shocked outlook” will push corn prices 17 percent higher before
the end of the year to $8.50.  “It's been a full year of strong cash prices, and we still
have uncertainty about supplies,” said Darrel Good, an
agricultural economist at the  University of Illinois  in Urbana.
“The market will have some difficulty interpreting the stocks
number because of the co-mingling of old- and new-crop
supplies.”  Stockpiles are getting harder to predict as growers plant
and harvest earlier, seeking higher yields, and as they build
more silos on their land rather than sending grain to commercial
elevators.  Missed Forecasts  Analysts and traders have missed the USDA’s inventory
forecasts by 194 million bushels (4.93 million metric tons) on
average in the past nine quarters, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That’s almost twice as much as in the previous five years.
Corn futures fluctuated by the maximum allowed by the CBOT after
seven of the past nine quarterly reports, with an average
intraday swing of 5.8 percent.  U.S. production will drop 13 percent this year to 10.727
billion bushels, the biggest decline in 17 years and the
smallest crop since 2006, the USDA said on Sept. 12. After
predicting a record harvest in June, the government has cut its
forecast three times in as many months.  Domestic feed, food and fuel production will consume nearly
89 percent of total usage, the highest in 40 years, USDA data
show. U.S. exports, the world’s largest, may to fall to the
lowest since 1975 as overseas buyers shift to other grains and
suppliers, the government estimates. World inventories as a
percentage of use before next year’s harvest will drop to the
lowest since 1974, government data show.  “We have yet to see evidence that domestic usage will slow
enough to ration supplies,” said  Dan Basse , the president of
AgResource Co. in Chicago. “Prices will likely rise to new
records.”  Wheat, Soybeans  The USDA probably will raise its wheat-inventory estimate
as U.S. farmers harvest the biggest crop in four years,
according to the Bloomberg survey. Reserves on Sept. 1, three
months after the start of the marketing year, probably were
2.272 billion bushels, up 5.8 percent from a year earlier and
the largest since 2010.  Soybean inventories may fall to an eight-year low of 130
million bushels from 215 million a year earlier, the Bloomberg
survey showed. Stockpiles are poised to drop to the lowest
relative to consumption since 1965, after droughts in the
Midwest and in  South America , AgResource’s Basse said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  