-- Siemens Said Preferred Bidder for Finmeccanica’s Ansaldo
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-09-28T08:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/siemens-said-preferred-bidder-for-finmeccanica-s-ansaldo.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s biggest
engineering company, is the preferred bidder for the power-plant
construction unit Ansaldo Energia majority-owned by  Finmeccanica
SpA (FNC) , according to people familiar with the process.  The two parties are negotiating a sales price, according to
two people familiar with the process, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are confidential. Finmeccanica
General Manager Alessandro Pansa said on a conference call in
May that the company is “at due diligence stage” with
potential partners for the sale of stakes of its energy and
transport units, adding that the goal is to sell them by the end
of the year.  “If achieved, the deal would secure Siemens’ position in
the exciting gas turbine market, and further lock out
competitors such as Alstom,” said William Mackie, an analyst at
Berenberg Bank. “We believe a deal priced around 1.3 billion
euros ($1.7 billion) would be taken positively, and
strengthening this segment would help Siemens to offset slower
business in renewable energy.”  Finmeccanica shares rose as much as 4.9 percent to 3.84
euros in Milan today. They traded 3.6 percent higher at 3.79
euros at 10:26 a.m. for a market value of 2.2 billion euros.
Siemens advanced 0.6 percent to 78.57 euros.  Advisers Picked  Finmeccanica tapped Banca IMI SpA and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to
advise it in recent days, the people said, while Siemens is
working with  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)  Siemens may aim to buy the
45 percent held by U.S. private equity firm First Reserve Corp,
one of the people said, asking not to be identified because the
talks are confidential.  Finmeccanica, based in  Rome , tried unsuccessfully to sell
shares in Ansaldo Energia to the public in 2008, and last year
sold a stake in the unit to First Reserve, a buyout firm that
specializes in energy assets. Last year’s stake sale valued
Ansaldo Energia at 1.23 billion euros. Finmeccanica Chief
Executive Officer Giuseppe Orsi has targeted 1 billion euros in
non-aerospace and defense asset sales to reduce 4.66 billion
euros of debt.  Gas Turbine Deals  Ansaldo Energia was the fifth-largest maker of gas turbines
by market share between 2006 and 2010, Nomura said in a report
last year.  General Electric Co. (GE)  and Siemens lead the industry,
and at an investor conference on May 23, Siemens Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Loescher  singled out gas turbines as an area where
the company may make further acquisitions.  Buying Ansaldo Energia may help Siemens fend off Asian
rivals seeking to get a head start in the turbines business,
analysts have said. Fossil power is among Siemens’s biggest and
most profitable business units. “We will do our utmost not to
allow anyone to take that position from us,´´ Roland Fischer,
who heads the company’s fossil power business, said in an
interview in January.  Siemens’s last major acquisition in fossil power dates back
to 1998, when it bought Westinghouse Power Generation for $1.2
billion. The company also agreed in March to buy a subsea power-
grid equipment maker for 470 million euros from Expro Holdings,
underscoring Loescher’s focus on bolt-on acquisitions rather
than transformational deals.  Unions’ Proposal  Siemens is facing opposition from Italian unions. The
Italian unions Fiom, Fim-Cisl and Uilm said in a joint statement
that they oppose a stake sale to Siemens, citing concerns about
jobs.  The unions urged the Italian government to intervene
‘‘urgently” to keep the company in Italian hands. Italy’s
Democratic Party also called for Cassa Depositi’s Fondo
Strategico to intervene, according to a statement by Senator
Roberta Pinotti. The Democratic Party is one of the three
parties supporting Prime Minister Mario Monti’s government.  The Italian unions said that the 55 percent stake should be
temporarily transferred to Italy state lender Cassa Depositi e
Prestiti SpA. Though Siemens is the preferred bidder, Ansaldo
Energia has received interest from other suitors as well, one of
the people said.  Torsten Wolf, a spokesman for Siemens’s energy business,
had no comment. Officials at First Reserve, Deutsche Bank and
Banca IMI declined to comment.  Orsi told Italy’s Senate on Aug. 1 that the company was
open to retaining part of its stake in Ansaldo Energia to keep
jobs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  