-- Silver Lake Won’t Follow Rivals With IPO, Hutchins Says
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-09-27T19:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/silver-lake-won-t-follow-rivals-with-ipo-hutchins-says.html
Silver Lake Management LLC, the
biggest technology-focused private-equity firm, isn’t
considering diversifying its business or taking itself public as
its larger peers have done, co-founder  Glenn Hutchins  said.  “As long as we can produce outsized returns for our
investors, we resist the siren song of those sorts of things,”
Hutchins said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and Stephanie Ruhle.  Silver Lake’s biggest competitors, including  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) ,  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , have diversified their
lines of business and increased their assets to support further
expansion in real estate, credit and hedge funds-of-funds. The
firms also went public to gain permanent capital to grow and
position founders to cash out. Blackstone held its initial
public offering in 2007, KKR gained a U.S. listing in 2010 and
Carlyle’s IPO came in May.  Silver Lake , co-founded by Hutchins, Jim Davidson and David Roux in 1999, oversees $14 billion in assets under management.
The firm focuses on investments including large-capitalization
and middle-market technology, debt holdings and energy and
natural resources, according to the Menlo Park, California-based
firm’s website.  Silver Lake had its best returns from its $2.3 billion
debut fund, Silver Lake Partners LP, raised 13 years ago. The
fund produced a net multiple of 2.5 times invested capital and a
net internal rate of return of 25 percent as of Dec. 31,
according to a private-placement memorandum sent to investors in
March, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Skype Technologies SA, maker of the software that allows
users to make video and voice calls over the Internet, has been
the strongest investment from Silver Lake Partners III, which
raised about $9.4 billion in 2007, according to the memo. Skype
produced a more than threefold profit for investors when the
Luxembourg-based company was sold to Microsoft Corp. last year.  “Finding places where you can invest capital without the
headwind of that contracting growth is a very important place to
be,” Hutchins said. “Technology is one of the leading parts of
that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  