-- Singh Policy Steps Augur Bumper Budget With Eye on Vote: Economy
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-09-27T07:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/singh-policy-steps-augur-bumper-budget-with-eye-on-vote-economy.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s biggest opening to foreign companies since taking office
in 2004 boosts odds of an expansionary budget in February to
defuse populist opposition to the moves.  Undermined by political allies that opposed his initiatives,
and facing the weakest growth since the 2009 global recession,
Singh this month took a page out of his two-decade old playbook.
The former finance chief, who started dismantling regulations in
the early 1990s, opened retail, aviation and energy markets to
overseas investors and plans to head a new board that will
approve major infrastructure projects.  To cope with the political fallout, which has already
included a national strike and the defection of his largest
coalition partner, and set the Congress Party up for elections
due in 2014, Singh may next focus on measures to alleviate
poverty. Steps could include expanded rights for the poor to buy
grains at subsidized rates, said economist Laveesh Bhandari.  “These are the last of the reform measures and as we enter
the election mode we will see populist measures,” said Bhandari,
director of Indicus Analytics Pvt. Ltd., an economics research
firm in New Delhi. The Sept. 14 package from Singh’s
administration “does nothing for growth in the short term, but
it is to unleash the animal spirit,” he said.  Top Performer  India ’s rupee has been the best performer against the
dollar among  emerging markets  since Singh’s announcements,
climbing about 4 percent. The currency had tumbled to a record
low in June as economic growth slumped below 6 percent and
policy stagnation hurt investor confidence in the nation’s
prospects of living up to its billing as a BRIC powerhouse.  Singh is gambling that the long-delayed opening measures
will revive economic  growth  in time to salvage Congress’s
fortunes before a general election due by May 2014. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. predicts the restructuring will help lift
growth to 7 percent in the year through March 2014, while
staying below the average of about 8 percent in the past decade.  “Separately, these reforms are incremental steps, but when
taken together, they could have a large impact on market and
corporate confidence,”  Tushar Poddar , an economist at Goldman
Sachs in Mumbai, wrote in a Sept. 21 report. “There are clearly
a number of risks to the reform process, especially the
uncertain political environment.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index has gained
almost 4 percent since the changes were unveiled, compared with
a 1.3 percent advance for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. The
Indian gauge climbed 0.3 percent as of 12:51 p.m. in Mumbai,
while the rupee appreciated 0.5 percent to 53.2525 per dollar.  Pledge Fulfilled  After announcing plans to allow foreign retailers to open
supermarkets during a parliament last year, rival political
parties used the assembly as a venue to vent their opposition,
blocking proceedings for two weeks. The government eventually
announced it would withdraw the policies. In December, Singh
vowed in an interview with  Bloomberg News  that he would revive
the opening of the retail industry in 2012.  Singh’s latest initiatives may take time to bear fruit.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world’s largest retailer, which
operates 17 wholesale outlets in India in a tie-up with
billionaire Sunil Mittal’s Bharti Enterprises, will take 12 to
18 months to open retail outlets in the world’s second-most
populous country,  Scott Price , head of Wal-Mart’s Asia
operations, said in a Sept. 21 interview in  Hong Kong .  Singh’s decision to push through the reforms cost him the
support of his biggest coalition ally, the  Trinamool Congress ,
whose ministers quit in protest, leaving the government about 24
seats short of a parliamentary majority. The changes don’t
require the approval of the legislature, which is in recess and
doesn’t meet again until November.  Election Looms  “Congress wanted to get these reforms out of the way
because they are necessary,” said N.R. Bhanumurthy, a New
Delhi-based economist at the National Institute of Public
Finance and Policy. “Then it will want to start focusing on
more populist, vote-winning policies next year which have the
best chance of delivering the election.”  To fund a pre-election budget, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram may have to accelerate the sale of state assets or
increase India’s record borrowings.  Government debt sales will rise by 9 percent in the year
ending March 31, overshooting Chidambaram’s 5.69 trillion rupee
($106 billion) target by 500 billion rupees, according to the
median of eight estimates from investors and analysts compiled
by Bloomberg.  Growth Slumps  India’s gross domestic  product  rose 5.5 percent in the
three months through June from a year earlier, holding near a
three-year low of 5.3 percent in the previous quarter.  China  has also seen its expansion moderate, with a report
today showing industrial company profits down 3.1 percent in the
first eight months this year compared with a year earlier.  German unemployment probably remained at 6.8 percent in
September, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey ahead of a report due today. The U.K. is scheduled to
publish revised second-quarter economic growth estimates.  The U.S. also releases revised economic growth figures, as
well as data on weekly initial jobless claims and pending home
sales.  Among India’s challenges are infrastructure bottlenecks
that have contributed to keeping the nation’s  inflation  in
excess of 7 percent, restricting the central bank from cutting
 interest rates  to aid growth.  Grid Shutdowns  This month’s initiatives include plans to speed up
approvals for projects, along with a debt restructuring for
electricity companies to give them more cash to invest in new
plants in the aftermath of this year’s north India power grid
shutdowns that highlighted deficiencies. Singh will chair a new
board to clear infrastructure  projects  worth more than 10
billion rupees.  “In India it’s never clear what a final approval is,”
said Samiran Chakraborty, an economist at Standard Chartered Plc.
in Mumbai. “So this should help to accelerate the process.”  The first political test for the Congress party since
unveiling the changes comes with provincial elections next year.
Votes will take  place  in Gujarat and  Himachal Pradesh  by mid-
January, with key ballots in Karnataka in June, followed by
 Madhya Pradesh , Rajasthan and New Delhi. Karnataka and Madhya
Pradesh, which combined have more than 130 million people, are
ruled by the chief opposition group, the  Bharatiya Janata Party ,
and will be main battlegrounds in the general election.  Sonia’s Role  One benefit is a perception of support for Singh and
Chidambaram’s initiatives among Congress’s leadership. The
Congress Working Committee -- the party’s highest decision-
making body, and led by its president,  Sonia Gandhi  -- backed
the economic changes at a meeting on Sept. 25.  A swathe of populist policies before the 2014 election
would mimic Singh’s winning formula in 2009, when Congress
announced it would write off farmers’ loans to shore up rural
support. At the same time, the need to retain votes may prevent
Singh from tackling some areas, said Satish Misra, a political
analyst at the  Observer Research Foundation  in  New Delhi .  “It’s a good start,” said Misra. “This will go down well
with international and foreign financial investors. There will
be incremental reforms to boost growth but the government will
not dare to attempt controversial reforms like foreign
investment in insurance and pensions.”  Unlike foreign investment in retail and aviation, which are
enacted under existing laws, opening insurance, pensions and
banking would require approval in  parliament , where Singh must
now rely on smaller regional parties outside his coalition to
get measures passed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  