-- Slovenia Set to Approve Bank Plan as Bailout Nears
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-09-28T11:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/slovenia-set-to-approve-bank-plan-as-bailout-nears.html
Slovenian lawmakers probably will
approve the creation of a sovereign-wealth fund and pass
legislation on bank stability as the former Yugoslav republic
intensifies efforts to avoid an international rescue.  Lawmakers gather in Parliament today to approve creation of
a wealth fund designed to manage assets valued at more than 10
billion euros ($12.8 billion). They will also vote on a plan to
exchange as much as 4 billion euros of state-backed bonds for
banks’ non-performing loans, while banks would get an additional
capital boost of as much as 1 billion euros from the government,
according to Finance Minister Janez Sustersic.  “The sums envisaged could be sufficient to stabilize the
banking system,” Gunter Deuber, head of central and eastern
European research at  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , said.
“However, I would doubt these amounts, if needed, can be easily
financed by the government.  Slovenia  is currently missing the
investor base.”  Prime Minister  Janez Jansa ’s government, which is working
on stabilizing state-owned banks and enacting overhauls of the
pension system and labor market, dropped a previous plan for the
wealth fund to assume bad loans from lenders. Instead, an
agency, known as a “bad bank,” would swap state-guaranteed
bonds for non-performing loans from banks such as Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka (KBMR)  Maribor d.d.  Bank Recapitalization  Slovenia must recapitalize its banks and overhaul the labor
market and pension system to avoid seeking a bailout, central
bank Governor Marko Kranjec said on Sept. 17. Economists from
 London  to Warsaw have said Slovenia is on course to ask for an
international assistance package to prop up its lenders.  The opposition Social democrats are threatening to block
legislation on the wealth fund and may even call a referendum to
block the move, according to lawmaker Janko Veber.  “This is a fire sale, the last wave of privatization,”
Veber said in Parliament on Sept. 26. “People should decide if
they want these assets to be sold, which would endanger 100,000
jobs.”  Slovenian voters rejected pension changes in a referendum
in June 2011, marking a start of an increase in its borrowing
costs that led to the September fall of the government of the
then-Prime Minister  Borut Pahor .  ‘Political Risk’  Ratings company  Standard & Poor’s  warned of “political
risks to the implementation of an economic overhaul,” when it
cut Slovenia’s credit score last month to A from A+. Moody’s
Investors Service also cut the rating to Baa2, the second-lowest
investment grade, while  Fitch Ratings  cut it to A-.  “If it isn’t passed, it could raise the risk that the
markets start to believe that the political will isn’t there for
a decisive response to Slovenia’s current problems,” said
 William Jackson , an emerging-markets economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in London, in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg
questions.  Slovenia was the first ex-Yugoslav nation to join the
European Union in 2004 and the first post-communist country to
adopt the euro in 2007. Its borrowing costs on the benchmark
bond maturing in 2021 surged to over 7 percent last month on
domestic woes and concern the debt crisis that started in  Greece 
three years ago may force it out the credit markets.  Government bonds  maturing in January 2021 rallied today,
pushing the yield 50 basis points lower to 6.27 percent at 12:37
p.m. in Ljubljana, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.  Slovenia plans to sell its first U.S. dollar-denominated
debt, a $1.5 billion, 10-year issue, by December, Sustersic said
in an interview on Sept. 2. The Adriatic country hasn’t sold any
benchmark bonds this year after canceling a debt sale in April.  Doubling Debt  Slovenia’s debt more than doubled since its euro adoption.
It was at 47.6 percent of gross domestic product last year and
will climb to just below 55 percent by year-end and to 58
percent in 2013, according to a May report by the European
Commission.  “Bank recapitalization with public funds aggravates the
task of turning around public-debt dynamics, which eventually
could prove a challenge, even in Slovenia, where public debt is
still at relatively low levels,” Thomas Harjes, an economist at
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  in  Frankfurt , wrote in a Sept. 21 report. Public
debt to unsustainable levels could make necessary a “bank
liability management exercise and/or external aid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  