-- Sony Says 2012 a Tough Year for TVs, Sees Demand for Larger Sets
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-09-27T06:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/sony-says-2012-a-tough-year-for-tvs-sees-demand-for-larger-sets.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  expects a tough year for
its television-making unit this fiscal year because of a slowing
economy, the head of the business said.  “Year-end demand isn’t looking good globally,” Masashi
Imamura, a senior vice president in charge of home entertainment
products, told reporters in  Tokyo  today. Sales of larger models
may help the TV-manufacturing industry, which “will probably
struggle” to match last year’s sales, he said, while sticking
to the company’s annual sales target.  Sony said in August its main TV operation may lose about 80
billion yen ($1 billion) in the year ending March 2013, a ninth
straight year of losses from the business, adding to about 700
billion yen in losses since April 2004. Chief Executive Officer
 Kazuo Hirai  is reducing the number of Bravia models as he aims
to make the TV unit profitable in the year ending March 2014.  The electronics maker, seeking to recover from four
straight years of net losses, cut its annual TV sales target
last month to 15.5 million units from 17.5 million units, citing
a slowing global economy.  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , the maker of Regza TVs, may miss its goal of
selling 16 million TVs this fiscal year by as much as 20
percent, Masahiko Fukakushi, chief executive officer of the
company’s digital products unit, told reporters separately today
in Tokyo.  Trailing Samsung, LG  Global TV shipments fell 8 percent to 51.6 million units in
the quarter ended June 30 from a year earlier, a second
consecutive quarterly decline, DisplaySearch  said  Sept. 11,
citing worsening economic conditions.  Japan  was the hardest hit,
plunging 77 percent, while developed markets overall recorded a
23 percent decline, the researcher said.  Sony ranked third, trailing Samsung and LG, with an 8.3
percent market share in the quarter, compared with 9.4 percent
in the preceding quarter.  Sony is carefully monitoring sales in  China  as some
discount outlets have halted promotions of Japan-made goods,
Imamura said. A dispute over islands in the  East China Sea  that
are claimed by both countries has sparked protests in China,
disrupting local output by Japanese companies and reducing
demand for their products in the world’s second-largest economy.  Sony’s TV-unit reform plan “is progressing as planned,”
Imamura said. There will probably be a significant improvement
in the fiscal year starting April 2013, he said.  Sharp Venture  The company sold its stake in a liquid-crystal-display
venture with Sharp Corp. in June after the Osaka-based company
turned to  Taiwan ’s Foxconn Technology Group for a capital
alliance, which included a sale of a stake in the venture.  Sony ended a similar panel venture with Samsung Electronics
Co. last year as part of its plan to trim losses at the TV unit.
Hirai has said the sale of the stake in the venture to the South
Korean company will save about 50 billion yen.  In June, Sony agreed with Panasonic Corp. to jointly
develop TV sets that use organic light-emitting diode panels, or
OLED screens. The partnership is the first between the main TV
operations at the two companies.  South Korea ’s Samsung
Electronics Co. and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  have said they’ll
introduce OLED models by Dec. 31.  The collaboration with Panasonic is running smoothly and
the two company may offer OLED products after March 2014,
Imamura said.  Sony said today it will start offering 84-inch sets using
so-called 4K technology for 1.68 million yen in Japan from Nov.
23. The company sees growing demand for larger sets in developed
markets such as  North America  and Japan, Imamura said. The 4K
standard enables higher-resolution images than conventional
models.  Toshiba will display an 84-inch 4K-resolution set at the
CEATEC electronics show near Tokyo next week, it said in a
statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  