-- Spain Cleans Up Kitchen With Bank Tests as Bailout Looms
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-09-28T10:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/spain-chases-cockroaches-with-bank-stress-test-as-bailo.html
When  Spain  reveals the size of the
hole in its banking system with the publication of stress test
results later today, the credibility of that estimate risks
being undermined by a deteriorating economic outlook.  The test conducted by  Oliver Wyman  on 14 banking groups is
a precursor to the formation of a so-called bad bank to which
troubled lenders will transfer soured real estate to bolster
their balance sheets. The results will be released after the
market closes in  Madrid .  The independent stress test to assess the damage wrought by
the property crash is a condition of Spain’s 100 billion-euro
($129 billion) banking bailout agreed in July. Spain must
present convincing estimates of banks’ capital needs and
realistic valuations of toxic real estate assets to spur
investment and  economic growth , said Ron D’Vari, chief executive
officer of NewOak Capital Advisors, a New York-based financing
advisory and investment banking firm.  “If people see one cockroach in the kitchen, they’re going
to assume you have another 10 hiding somewhere and that is the
problem Spain has had with its banks,” said D’Vari, a former
head of structured finance at BlackRock Inc. “They have to be
seen to be coming clean and being realistic so that the
cockroaches get chased away.”  Budget Plans  Spain says it’s following a road map for recapitalizing and
restructuring its banks as part of a broader effort to fix its
economy.  Today’s stress test results follows last night’s
announcement of Spain’s 2013 budget, which outlined the
government’s plans to freeze public wages, end tax rebates on
mortgages, tax lottery winnings and cut ministry spending. Spain
is committed to cutting its  budget deficit  to 4.5 percent of
economic output next year compared with a 6.3 percent goal for
2012.  The Oliver Wyman stress test follows government orders to
banks in February and May to recognize 84 billion euros of
losses on real estate assets and a royal decree last month that
lays out a legal framework for dealing with failing lenders and
setting up the bad bank. A preliminary stress test in June by
Oliver Wyman and Roland Berger Strategy Consultants showed banks
would need as much as 62 billion euros of additional capital in
a worst-case economic scenario.  Dispelling Doubts  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said Sept. 22 the capital
needs of banks in the stress test will be about 60 billion
euros, similar to the previous Oliver Wyman estimate. The state
aid required by weaker banks will depend on how much capital
they can generate by selling assets or transferring them to the
bad bank, the economy ministry said Sept. 14.  Some analysts are skeptical today’s announcements will
dispel doubts about the weakness of some lenders.  “There’s no right answer for how much capital the Spanish
banks will need but they at least need to exceed people’s
expectations,” said Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura
International in Madrid. “The real experience of the banks
shows that losses just go up to the extent that the economy gets
progressively worse.”  Barclays Plc predicts Spanish gross domestic product will
shrink 1.8 percent in both 2012 and 2013, while Morgan Stanley
expects a 2.2 percent decline this year and 1.3 percent next.
The Oliver Wyman stress test published in June assumed a
contraction of 4.1 percent this year, 2.1 percent in 2013 and
0.3 percent in 2014.  Credible Shortfall  While the Oliver Wyman worst-case analysis tests Spanish
banks against a 6 percent core capital ratio threshold, the
effective rate, including a buffer, was 9 percent in Ireland,
according to Nomura’s Quinn.  The best result for Spain’s stress test would be to reveal
a “credible” capital shortfall for the industry of 70 billion
euros to 80 billion euros, said  Simon Maughan , a financial
industry strategist at Olivetree Securities in  London . “If it’s
any more than that, there’s a problem because there’s not much
bailout money left over.”  The banking cleanup and bad bank is part of a broader
effort by Spain to convince investors and European politicians
that it’s serious about fixing its economy. After agreeing to
seek a banking bailout in June, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is
considering whether to seek a further aid that would allow the
 European Central Bank  to buy Spanish bonds to bring down the
country’s borrowing costs.  German Backing  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  still has to seek approval
from  Germany ’s Parliament for Spain’s bailout and Rajoy can
smooth that process by showing his country is serious about
mending the banking system, said  Holger Schmieding , chief
economist at Berenberg Bank in London.  “Whatever the number is that comes out of the stress
tests, there will always be people in the markets that question
it,” said Schmieding. “What really counts is that Merkel can
have the arguments she needs to go before her Parliament to ask
for money for Spain.”  Getting political backing for the bailout also depends on
transfers of real estate to the bad bank being done at “broadly
realistic” valuations, said Schmieding.  “Obviously the price at which assets get transferred is
very relevant because the bad bank in Spain could become very
bad,” said Edward Thomas, who helps oversee $6 billion as head
of fixed income at Quantum Global Wealth Management in Zug,
 Switzerland . “The risk is that the Spanish government may end
up recapitalizing the banking system by taking these assets off
balance sheets of the banks at the wrong mark to market.”  Precautionary Measure  The stress test will categorize banks, with Group 0 being
lenders that have no additional  capital requirements  and Group 1
those that have already been nationalized, such as the  Bankia (BKIA) 
and Banco de Valencia. Group 2 will include other banks with
capital shortfalls that need of state aid.  Group 3 will comprise lenders deemed to be capable of
covering capital deficits without government help. Those with a
shortfall greater than 2 percent of risk-weighted assets will
have to take support from the state as a precautionary measure
by issuing convertible bonds to the government’s bank rescue
fund.  Banco Popular Espanol SA, a bank specializing in corporate
lending, said Sept. 25 it was presenting “arguments” to Oliver
Wyman over its treatment of certain asset portfolios in the
stress test in the belief that it won’t need government support.  Banks in Group 2 could include Banco Mare Nostrum and
Liberbank,  Fitch Ratings  said in Sept. 26 report.  Popular (POP)  could
be among lenders in Group 3, according to the ratings company.  Boosting Consolidation  The process may lead to more consolidation among Spanish
lenders with the best opportunities to boost market share
falling to the biggest banks, including  Banco Santander (SAN)  SA and
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , said Quantum’s Thomas.  Santander CEO Alfredo Saenz said in a Sept. 25 presentation
in London that as many as 15,000 bank branches would close in
Spain in coming years and that “subscale” banks would be
absorbed by stronger ones.  “Mergers in banking sectors that are in trouble is the
right way to go, but the government clearly has to keep a strong
handle on the process and be very clear on what the benefits of
the merger are,” said Thomas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  