-- Spain Pledges Cuts to Meet Deficit Target as Bailout Looms
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-09-27T18:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/spain-pledges-cuts-to-meet-2013-deficit-target-as-bailout-looms.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s nine-month-old government announced its fifth austerity
package in what may be a move to head off tougher conditions
demanded as part of a potential European bailout.  Rajoy’s Cabinet approved a new tax on lottery winnings and
a cut in ministries’ spending as part of a 13 billion-euro
($16.8 billion) central government package to shrink the euro
area’s  third-biggest   budget deficit . The target for 2013, which
includes the regions and social security, is 4.5 percent of
economic output compared with a 6.3 percent goal for this year.  “It’s a major push for the reduction of the budget
deficit,” Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro told reporters
today in Madrid. “We are making a major shared effort.”  The measures reflect Rajoy’s attempt to balance the demands
of his European Union counterparts with voters demonstrating on
the streets of the capital. He’ll raid the pension reserve fund
to boost payments for retirees while unveiling a parcel of 43
separate measures that Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said
exceed everything the EU has demanded for increasing growth.  Recommendations  Spain’s plan “responds to country-specific recommendations
and goes even beyond them in some areas,” European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in an
e-mail sent while the ministers were speaking.  A 1 percent increase in payments to retirees will increase
the pensions bill 4.9 percent to 122 billion euros while
interest payments on Spain’s mounting public debt will increase
34 percent to 38.6 billion euros. At the same time, Rajoy is
chopping 40 billion euros from his ministries.  The budget consolidation may yet be undermined by the
performance of the Spanish economy which the government expects
to contract by 0.5 percent next year. Economists expect a
decline of 1.3 percent according to the median of 21 forecasts
in a Bloomberg survey.  “They’ve increased the taxes for next year and cut
spending but they didn’t change the growth forecast,” said
 Ricardo Santos , an economist at BNP Paribas in  London . “We
think that’s optimistic.” Santos expects output to fall 1.8
percent.  Creditor Demands  The steps may be enough to ease demands creditor countries
such as  Germany  and the Netherlands would make in exchange for a
financial lifeline. The government won’t decide whether to
request aid until it has all the relevant information available
and has had time to study it, de Guindos said.  “What the Spanish government is doing, and it’s what any
responsible government would do when faced with this very
important decision, is to be in contact with all the involved
parties,” he said. A possible bailout “is a very important
decision for  Spain  and also for the euro area overall.”  Spain will make more of its budget adjustment through
spending cuts than increasing taxes next year even as it tries
to shelter pensioners and the unemployed, Montoro said.  “The adjustment isn’t being made on social spending,”
Montoro said. Social programs account for 63 percent of
spending.  Central government revenue will rise 2.7 percent to 175.2
billion euros ($226 billion) next year while its spending will
increase 5.6 percent, according to the blueprint. Spending cuts
overall of about 8 billion euros will deliver 58 percent of the
adjustment, it said.  Increased Taxes  In line with a plan sent to Brussels last month, the 2013
budget approved today increases taxes on lotteries, short-term
 capital gains  and extended a  wealth tax , and scraps rebates for
large companies and mortgage holders.  Rajoy is stoking frustration among some European leaders
for delaying a decision on whether to seek a bailout from the
euro region’s rescue fund that would allow the  European Central
Bank  to prop up the nation’s bond market.  The premier, who has spent close to two months saying he
will consider it, said on Sept. 25 in comments to the Wall
Street Journal that were confirmed by his office that he would
“100 percent” seek help if bond yields remained too high.  Yields on Spain’s 10-year notes rose to a euro-era record
of 7.75 percent on July 25. They’ve declined 5.95 percent in
 Madrid  today, down 11 basis point.  Weighing Bailout  The Bank of Spain yesterday said early indicators suggest
gross domestic product is still falling at a “significant
pace” after the recession deepened in the second quarter. Data
released this week showed the central government’s overspending
overshot its full-year target in August as it bailed out the 17
semi-autonomous regions and the welfare system amid falling tax
receipts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  