-- Sri Lanka Wins Twenty20 Tiebreaker as West Indies Beat England
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-09-27T23:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/sri-lanka-beats-new-zealand-in-super-over-in-world-twenty20.html
Host Sri Lanka beat  New Zealand  in
a super over tiebreaker and West Indies defeated defending
champion England by 15 runs to open the last-eight phase of
cricket’s World Twenty20 competition.  The super over was used in yesterday’s first Super Eight
match in Pallekele after the scores were tied on 174 when Lahiru
Thirimanne was run out on the last ball. Sri Lanka made 13-1 in
the one-over eliminator and kept New Zealand down to 8.  “It’s nice to have a win under your belt so the pressure
eases down,” Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene said at the
post-match presentation. “We thought we had won but it needed a
super over.”  West Indies tops Group 1 ahead of tournament favorite Sri
Lanka because of a superior net run rate after England made
164-4 in its chase of the Caribbean team’s 179-5.  There are two groups of four in the Super Eight, with the
top two in each advancing to the semifinals.  Pakistan  plays
 South Africa  and  Australia  meets India in today’s Group 2
doubleheader in  Colombo .  Rob Nicol top scored for New Zealand with 58 yesterday
after captain  Ross Taylor  won the toss. Martin Guptill made 38,
Brendon McCullum 25 and Taylor 23.  Bowler Akila Dananjaya had medical treatment after a drive
by Nicol went through his attempted catch and hit him in the
face. Soon after, McCullum was out and Nicol stepped up the
pace, scoring three sixes in an over, before being caught off
Dananjaya. New Zealand ended on 174-7.  Run Out  Tillakaratne Dilshan  scored 76 and Jayawardene 44 in Sri
Lanka’s 174-6. The home team needed eight off the final over to
win. Thirimanne scooped a four off the second-to-last delivery
before getting run out next ball to leave the scores tied. His
dismissal followed a lengthy video review after Taylor, at the
stumps, fumbled the ball from James Franklin’s throw.  Tim Southee bowled two wides while allowing 13 runs in the
tiebreaker and Lasith Malinga restricted New Zealand to 8.
Dilshan caught Guptill on the boundary off the next-to-last ball
of the extra over as the batsman attempted a six.  “To lose tight matches is always disappointing,” Taylor
said. “But from the situation we were in, I thought we fought
back very hard and never gave up. I am proud of my team.”  Windies Win  Also in Pallekele, man of the match Johnson Charles scored
84 and fellow opener Chris Gayle slammed 58 off 35 balls after
West Indies won the toss last night.  West Indies had sprinted to 103 when Gayle was caught by
 Steven Finn  just after the Englishman dropped Charles. England’s
bowlers continued to be ineffective and the Windies ended on
179-5. Graeme Swann allowed 32 runs off three overs, and Jade
Dernbach and Samit Patel each conceded 38 off four.  “We backed ourselves to set a target and Chris and Charles
got us going well,” West Indies captain  Darren Sammy  said at
the post-match presentation. “It’s good to see the way Johnson
Charles played, he stared off slow but he constructed an
important innings.”  England lost two wickets without scoring in the first three
balls as  Ravi Rampaul  dismissed  Craig Kieswetter  and  Luke Wright . Kieron Pollard then took a high catch on the boundary to
dismiss Jonny Bairstow for 18 and leave  England  at 55-3.  Eoin Morgan joined opener Alex Hales in the middle and the
pair added 107 for the fourth wicket. Hales was dismissed for 68
in the third-last delivery as England chased 23 off the last
over to reach the victory target. Morgan scored five sixes in
his 36-ball 71 not out.  “It was always going to be tough chasing down that total
after being none for two,” Hales said on the tournament’s
website. “We fought back very well to give ourselves half a
chance towards the end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  