-- Stronach Leaves Thoroughbreds to Join Austrian Vote Race
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-09-27T12:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/stronach-leaves-thoroughbreds-to-join-austrian-vote-race.html
Frank Stronach , the 80-year-old
Austrian billionaire who made his fortune selling car parts and
running horse-racing tracks, today began a political campaign to
rule the Alpine Republic when citizens vote next year.  “Team Stronach” wants to drop the euro, cut the country’s
debt by reducing  government spending  and lower taxes in the
nation of 8.4 million, Stronach said.  “I’ve been contemplating for a couple of years how to
bring a new party forward,” he said at a press conference in
Vienna’s historic Schoenbrunn Palace, adding that the specific
points of the platform aren’t complete. “Some of my friends ask
me ‘Frank, why are you doing this?’ But I don’t think it’s dumb.
It’s my duty.”  Stronach amassed his wealth at  Magna International Inc. (MG) ,
 North America ’s biggest car-parts maker that he founded after
emigrating to  Canada  in 1954. Worth about 2.35 billion euros ($3
billion) according to  Trend magazine , Stronach has previously
used his riches to mix in politics. He funded the ascension of
his daughter, Belinda, inside Canada’s  Conservative Party .
Leaders ranging from the late Austrian nationalist-politician
 Joerg Haider  to U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  have
courted the billionaire.  The campaign unveiled a political advertisement with
prominent international celebrities supporting Stronach. In the
spot, former U.S. President  Bill Clinton  told the candidate he
was “proud of our friendship.” Former CNN television talk host
 Larry King  called Stronach a “mensch.”  Voters ‘Fed Up’  Austrians disillusioned with  Europe ’s currency woes and
frustrated by corruption investigations among the nation’s
leading parties may be drawn to Stronach, said Peter Hajek, a
Vienna-based polling and public-opinion consultant. Traditional
protest blocs such as Austria’s anti-immigrant  Freedom Party 
have the most to lose.  “Frank Stronach scores well not only with voters who are
politically fed up but he also massively poaches from Freedom
Party voters,” Hajek said in a statement today.  Stronach may win the support of about 9 percent of Austrian
voters who will go to the polls to select a new chancellor by
October 2013, according to the latest Gallup poll of 400 voters.
He trails the ruling Socialists, with 27 percent, the Austrian
 People’s Party , with 22 percent, and the Freedom Party, with 21
percent.  Euro Destruction  Stronach ran and lost a campaign for Canadian Parliament in
1988 under the slogan  “Let’s be Frank,”  biographer Wayne
Lilley wrote in his 2006 book “Magna Cum Laude: How Frank
Stronach Became Canada’s Best-Paid Man” (McClelland & Stewart
Ltd., 376 pages). He developed a reputation for off-beat ideas.  “Toeing the party line, any party line, had not
historically been Stronach’s long suit,” Lilley wrote. “He was
more inclined toward contrariness with respect to tradition and
ideals that he hadn’t initiated.”  Stronach’s contrarian approach to solving the euro-area
debt crisis -- by instituting alternative currencies across the
17-nation union -- rankled European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny earlier this week.  The proposal “amounts to the simple destruction of the
euro zone,” Nowotny said in a Sept. 26  online chat . “This
would have massive negative effects, especially for the Austrian
export industry, not least in the automotive industry.”  ‘Doesn’t Do Humility’  Stronach, who remains honorary chairman at Magna, ceded
control of the auto-parts supplier in 2011 for about $970
million in cash and shares. The Stronach Group of companies owns
U.S.-based horse-racing tracks including Gulfstream Park in
Hallandale,  Florida , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
His  Adena Springs  horse farm is second on the Breeder’s Cup
money list, earning $7.8 million.  Austria  must amend its constitution by including a so-
called debt brake that would cap the amount of deficit spending
governments could use, according to Stronach’s platform.  “Every business person knows that if your business spends
more money than it brings in, the company will go bankrupt,”
according to the Oberwaltersdorf, Austria-based Frank Stronach
Institute’s  website . “Austria is over-governed, over-
bureaucratized and over-administered.”  It is a lesson that Stronach learned at Magna, according to
his biographer. After his first parliamentary run in 1988, his
company found itself on the verge of bankruptcy because poor
earnings caused it to break credit covenants.  “Stronach, who doesn’t do humility well, was forced to
swallow hard in dealing with debt-holders in order to save the
company that had been his life’s work,” Lilley wrote. “He’d
irritated enough people through his career with his pious
hectoring on the benefits of his fair enterprise credo that his
and Magna’s predicament generated more schadenfreude than it did
sympathy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  