-- Structured Notes Tied to Credit Swap Indexes at Five-Year High
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2012-09-27T06:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/structured-notes-tied-to-credit-swap-indexes-at-five-year-high.html
Banks sold the most structured
notes tied to credit-default swap indexes in more than five
years in September as investors sought the relative safety of
speculating on a broad cross-section of debt.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  DZ Bank  AG and  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  led $204 million of
issuance of notes predominantly tied to junk-rated companies in
 Europe  and the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the largest monthly sales figure since March 2007.  Notes tied to default swap indexes have become a popular
way of gaining exposure to the corporate sector while minimizing
losses from individual defaults, according to Rainer Overbeck,
DZ Bank’s head of structured credit trading.  “Index-linked notes are popular these days because they
provide diversification for investors, and even if we see the
economy deteriorating further and sporadic corporate defaults,
only a small portion of the invested money should be affected,”
said Frankfurt-based Overbeck.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index, which comprises 50
mostly junk-rated European companies, and the Markit CDX North
America High Yield Index, a measure of debt risk for 100 U.S.
speculative-grade firms, were the most popular reference indexes
for the notes in September.  The default rate among speculative-grade companies held at
3 percent in August, below the average of 4.8 percent since
1983, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  UBS issued the most index-linked notes this month, with
$73.94 million of sales. Amy Cayzer, a UBS spokeswoman in
 London , declined to comment on the notes.  More notes have been sold tied to default swap indexes in
2012 than in any year since Markit Group Ltd. began its European
iTraxx and U.S. CDX indexes in 2004, Bloomberg data show. Nordea
was the leading issuer of these notes, selling $506.3 million,
or 56 percent of the $910 million of index-tied notes sold this
year.  The only time monthly sales of the securities were higher
than in September was March 2007, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  