-- Sweden’s SEK Appoints Eric Haden Executive Director of Funding
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2012-09-27T14:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/sweden-s-sek-appoints-eric-haden-executive-director-of-funding.html
Svensk Exportkredit AB, the Swedish
government-owned investment agency whose sales of structured
notes fell 73 percent this year, named Erik Haden as executive
director and head of funding in  Stockholm .  Haden took over from Richard Anund at the beginning of
September, Edvard Unsgaard, SEK’s deputy head of communications,
said in a telephone interview. Anund, who held the job for eight
years after joining the agency in 1995 as a member of the
funding team, is working in SEK’s Singapore office. Unsgaard
declined to say what his title is and didn’t respond to
questions seeking more detail in a follow-up e-mail.  Banks use SEK to sell notes because it historically has had
better credit ratings. The agency has the second-highest credit
grade from both Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .
Banks, which often underwrite sales of their own structured
notes, work with third-party issuers partly to diversify credit
risk for investors.  SEK lost distributors for its structured notes after
Scandinavian counterpart Eksportfinans ASA was cut seven levels
to junk by Moody’s Investor Service in November,  Bloomberg News 
reported in August.  Norway , which owned 15 percent of
Eksportfinans, began withdrawing funds from the agency in favor
of a new loan program after it failed to meet European Union
regulatory requirements.  Sales Plunge  SEK has sold $428.1 million in structured notes this year,
73 percent less than last year, Bloomberg data show. The largest
offering on Aug. 30 was $80 million of 14-month notes tied to
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that yield three times the
benchmark’s gains up to 16.08 percent with all capital at risk,
according to a prospectus filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Bank of America Corp. distributed the note
for a 2 percent fee.  Bank of America has underwritten all of SEK’s structured
notes deals this year, Bloomberg data show.  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  hasn’t distributed any structured notes for the company
since December, and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WF)  since July 2011, after
together they handled $419.8 million of its securities last
year. New York-based Goldman Sachs has underwritten other notes
for SEK, such as a three-year, $250 million floating-rate bond
issued July 30.  Structured notes are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  Retail investors would start to question if  Sweden  would
stop guaranteeing SEK’s funds, Anund said in an August telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  