-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Increased in September, GfK Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-09-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/u-k-consumer-confidence-increased-in-september-gfk-says.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  rose in
September, providing “grounds for optimism” on the economic
outlook, GfK NOP Ltd. said.  An  index of sentiment  rose one point from August to minus
28, a 15-month high, the London-based research group said in an
e-mailed report today. The gauge held at minus 29 for the
previous four months.  The index “will offer some grounds for optimism to the
government after such a stagnant summer,” Nick Moon, managing
director of social research at GfK, said in a statement.
“However, we will have to wait for next month’s figures to see
if there has been a real change in public mood.”  Data yesterday showed the economy shrank less than
previously estimated in the second quarter as disposable incomes
rose the most since 2009. Bank of England Markets Director  Paul Fisher  was quoted by the Sun newspaper as saying that third-
quarter gross domestic product will be “very strong.”  GfK’s measure of Britons’ outlook for the economy over the
next 12 months held at minus 27. An index of their assessment of
the economy over the previous year rose 1 point to minus 54 and
a measure of the climate for making major purchases held at
minus 31.  A gauge of how Britons see their personal financial
situation over the next year rose 2 points to minus 8, while
their views on their situation over the previous 12 months held
at minus 21. GfK interviewed 2,002 people between Aug. 31 and
Sept. 9.  GDP fell 0.4 percent in the second quarter from the first,
the  Office for National Statistics  said yesterday. The decline
was less than the 0.5 percent previously thought and an initial
estimate of a 0.7 percent drop. Real household disposable income
rose 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  