-- U.K. Economy Shrinks Less Than Estimated, Incomes Rise
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-09-27T15:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/u-k-economy-shrinks-less-than-first-estimated-incomes-rise.html
The U.K. economy shrank less than
previously estimated in the second quarter and disposable
incomes rose the most since 2009, boding well for the prospects
of a recovery.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.4 percent instead of the 0.5
percent drop estimated last month, thanks to upward revisions to
construction and industrial production, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in  London . Real household disposable
income rose 1.9 percent, the biggest jump for three years.  The figures, released a week before the Bank of England
holds its monthly policy-setting meeting, will fuel the debate
among officials on whether further stimulus is needed as the
economy emerges from its first double-dip recession since the
1970s. Its markets director,  Paul Fisher , said in comments
published today that third-quarter GDP will be “very strong.”  “I think it’s becoming less compelling for the BOE to do
more quantitative easing,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at
Scotiabank Europe Plc in London. “Real incomes have become a
lot less negative than they were because inflation has dived and
employment has been stonkingly good.”  The pound was up 0.2 percent on the day against the dollar
and traded at $1.6195 at 4:12 p.m. in London.  The decline in GDP was less than the median forecast of 28
economists in a Bloomberg survey for a 0.5 percent drop. The
figures also showed consumer spending fell 0.2 percent in the
second quarter, revised from a previously estimated 0.4 percent
drop.  Business investment  rose 0.9 percent. It had previously
been estimated to fall 1.5 percent.  Incomes Boost  Personal incomes were boosted by higher net social benefits
and property income, the statistics office said. The bill for
wages and salaries climbed 2.1 percent, reflecting the strength
of the labor market in the face of the recession. The savings
ratio rose to 6.7 percent from 6 percent.  The current-account deficit widened to a record 20.8
billion pounds ($33.6 billion) in the second quarter from 15.4
billion pounds in the previous three months as foreign investors
earned more on their U.K. debt and equity securities while
income from overseas investments posted a small decline.  The gap was equal to 5.4 percent of GDP.  Net trade  exerted
the biggest drag on the economy between April and June,
underlining the challenges facing the recovery as the euro-
region debt crisis hits demand in the biggest market for British
exports.  Political Pressure  The economic slump has heaped pressure on Prime Minister
 David Cameron  and left his  Conservative Party  trailing behind
the Labour opposition in opinion polls. After three straight
quarters of contraction, GDP is no higher than when his
coalition came to power 2 1/2 years ago.  Unlike the U.S. and  Germany , Britain has yet to return to
the levels of output seen before the recession began more than
four years ago. Activity is still about 4 percent below its
early-2008 peak. Only Italy among Group of Seven nations is
further behind.  Still, developed economies remain under pressure as the
 European debt crisis  persists. German unemployment climbed a
sixth month in September, with the number of jobless rising a
seasonally adjusted 9,000 to 2.91 million, data today showed.  Economic confidence in the euro area unexpectedly fell in
September. The European Commission’s index of executive and
consumer sentiment dropped to 85 from 86.1 in August. Economists
had forecast no change, according to the median of 28
predictions in a Bloomberg News survey.  U.S. Economy  The economy in the U.S. grew less than previously forecast
in the second quarter, reflecting slower gains in  consumer
spending  and farm inventories, a report today showed. The
world’s largest economy expanded at a 1.3 percent pace from
April through June after growing at a 2 percent rate in the
first quarter. The revision compared with a prior estimate of
1.7 percent.  U.K. second-quarter output was depressed by wet weather and
an extra public holiday to celebrate Queen Elizabeth II’s 60
years on the throne. Recent retail sales and production data
suggest growth resumed in the third quarter. The ONS will
tomorrow release its estimate of services output in July.  Between April and June, construction output fell 3 percent
instead of a previously estimated 3.9 percent drop and
manufacturing slipped 0.8 percent rather than 0.9 percent. The
decline in overall  industrial production  was revised to 0.7
percent from 0.9 percent. Services, the largest part of the
economy, shrank an unrevised 0.1 percent.  Pressure Easing  Pressure on household budgets is easing, although an
 inflation  rate of 2.5 percent continues to outstrip wage
increases. Employment increased to a four-year high of 29.6
million in the three months through July. Inflation will be
around the central bank’s 2 percent target in the coming years,
Fisher said.  “We are very seldom going to be actually at 2 percent,
we’ll always be a bit away and trying to bring it back,” Fisher
told the Sun, according to a correction issued by the central
bank today. “So our forecast has inflation within this sort of
range -- either a bit above or a bit below -- for the next two
or three years.”  The  Bank of England  has kept  rates  at a record low and
increased its emergency stimulus program to 375 billion pounds
to revive growth. It also introduced a Funding for Lending
Scheme last month to boost credit to companies and households.  The Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee said in a
record of its Sept. 14 meeting published today that banks’
efforts to raise capital to improve stability may be impaired by
slow earnings growth. U.K. lenders “should supplement internal
capital generation by seeking opportunities to raise capital
externally,” the record said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  