-- U.K.’s Cameron Says on U.S. Talk Show He’s Not Popular
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-09-27T14:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/u-k-s-cameron-says-on-u-s-talk-show-he-s-not-popular.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said budget cuts have hurt his popularity with constituents at
home as he sparred with U.S. talk-show host  David Letterman 
about Britain’s policies and history.  During an interview recorded yesterday with the host of
CBS’s “Late Show with David Letterman,” Cameron said he was
“not very popular at the moment.” The appearance came during
the premier’s visit to New York for the annual meeting of the
 United Nations General Assembly .  “We have got this big  budget deficit , so we have had to do
a lot of cuts and we have made a lot of difficult decisions, so
that makes you unpopular,” the prime minister said. The show
aired last night.  Cameron defended his government’s decision not to join the
group of European nations using the euro currency. “I think you
are going to end up effectively with some form of single
government,” he said. “I don’t want to be part of a country
called Europe.”  Letterman also quizzed Cameron about British history. He
found the premier’s knowledge lacking about the composer of
“Rule Britannia” ( Thomas Arne  set a 1740 poem by  James
Thomson , a Scot, to music) and what the name of the founding
document of the nation’s democracy,  “Magna Carta,”  means
(“Great Charter” in Latin).  “You’ve found me out,” Cameron joked. “I’ve ended my
career on your show tonight.”  Campaign Spending  He drew applause from the studio audience when he outlined
British rules that limit spending on political campaigns. “We
don’t allow political parties to advertise on television,”
Cameron said.  The premier sidestepped the issue of  gun control , saying
that while Britain favors tough laws, he could “respect” the
U.S. tradition of gun-ownership rights.  Asked today how he rated his performance on the show,
Cameron said: “I’m a history obsessive, so I’m sorry I didn’t
do better. I think when I get home and do my children’s homework
maybe I need to sit down and do a little bit extra myself.”  The premier was speaking in Brazil, during a visit to open
a JC Bamford Excavators Ltd. construction-vehicle assembly plant
near  Sao Paulo , after flying overnight from New York.  Former Prime Minister  Tony Blair  has twice appeared on
Letterman since leaving office in 2007, making Cameron the first
serving British premier to be a guest on the show. U.S.
President  Barack Obama  appeared on the program last week.  Alongside Cameron in the British-themed episode of
Letterman’s show was actor Jonny Lee Miller, promoting his
television series “Elementary,” a fresh take on fictional
detective  Sherlock Holmes . Folk-rock band Mumford & Sons
provided the music.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in New York at  kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  