-- U.S. Auto Retreat Poised to End With Canadian Labor Pacts
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-09-27T12:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/u-s-auto-retreat-poised-to-end-with-canadian-labor-pacts.html
The U.S.  auto industry ’s output
decline in Canada is poised to end after the major carmakers
secured wage and pension savings that lower the costs of what
Ford Motor Co. calls the world’s most expensive auto workers.  In four-year labor agreements at Ford and  General Motors
Co. (GM) , the companies agreed to offset previously announced layoffs
with fresh investments and jobs. Chrysler Group LLC pledged to
maintain its current operations in a tentative deal with the
Canadian Auto Workers last night. In exchange, workers accepted
bonuses in lieu of annual raises, along with measures to make
new hires less expensive.  “We’re in a period now of a decade-plus of evolving to
learn how to compete one-on-one with the best jurisdictions
anywhere in the world,” Dennis DesRosiers, president of
DesRosiers Automotive Consultants in Richmond Hill, Ontario,
said by telephone. “And these labor agreements are starting to
reflect that.”  The auto companies opened the latest round of negotiations
with Ford saying its Canadian workers were the most expensive
worldwide. The country’s exports became more expensive in the
last decade as the dollar rose about 60 percent against its U.S.
counterpart. That helped push  Canada  out of the top-10 global
automakers, from fourth place in 1999, according to the union.  Most Expensive  Before negotiations began last month, Ford said it spent
$15 more an hour for a Canadian worker than a unionized laborer
in the U.S., including costs for benefits and retirees. Erasing
that hourly gap will depend on how many workers Ford can hire at
the new wage to bring down the average, Lauren More said by e-
mail. She declined to say what the new average hourly wage could
be.  Faye Roberts, a spokeswoman for GM, didn’t respond to an e-
mailed request for comment. Chrysler, in an e-mailed statement
last night, declined to comment on the accord.  The three U.S. companies’ output in Canada was 1.48 million
vehicles in 2011, down 24 percent from 2002, according to
DesRosiers Auto Consultants. Employment dropped 55 percent to
20,777 workers over the same period, according to the union.  “At least in the course of the next three or four years,
with these agreements, they could get very competitive with the
U.S.,” Kristin Dziczek, director of the Center for Automotive
Research, said by phone from  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan .  New Hires  With no plant expansions planned, labor savings under the
new agreements will depend on how many current employees retire,
and the companies’ ability to keep a steady pipeline of new
workers coming in as older workers reach full pay, she said  “The structure is there,” Dziczek said.  Under the deals, workers gave up annual cost-of-living
raises in favor of C$2,000 ($2,033) lump-sum payments in the
second, third and fourth years of the contracts, as well as a
C$3,000 ratification bonus. The hourly rate for new hires will
fall to C$20.40 from C$23.80 and the time to reach a base salary
of C$34 will be 10 years, from six.  The Ford deal promises 600 new jobs in its Oakville,
Ontario, assembly plant to help offset the loss of 1,100 jobs
after a plant in St. Thomas, Ontario, closed in September last
year. The GM deal will add 900 jobs at an assembly plant in
Oshawa and 100 more at an engine and transmission plant in  St.
Catharines , to offset the 2,000 jobs lost from another plant set
to close in 2014.  Top Sellers  Chrysler said during negotiations it planned to maintain
three shifts at its Windsor assembly plant, near  Detroit , and
two shifts at its Brampton, Ontario plant through the agreement,
CAW President  Ken Lewenza  told reporters last night.  The Dodge Grand Caravan and Chrysler Town & Country
minivans built in Windsor were the fourth- and fifth-best
selling models in the company’s lineup last year. Deliveries of
the 300 sedan, built in Brampton, surged 158 percent this year
through August, the biggest gain among its models.  “The beauty of Chrysler Corporation, even though they’re
the smallest, even though from a financial perspective they
might even be the most vulnerable, they’ve got some hot products
that are going to provide employment opportunities at our
facilities for the life of this collective agreement,” Lewenza
said.  The contracts, which still need to be ratified by GM and
Chrysler workers after Ford’s members approved theirs, move half
the pensions for new hires into a defined-contribution plan
where the payout at retirement depends on the pension fund’s
performance. The other half will come from the union’s defined-
benefit plan that guarantees a certain amount at retirement and
obliges the company to make up the shortfall if the fund
underperforms.  ‘Bigger Piece’  In 2011, Canada accounted for about 20 percent of the major
U.S. car companies’ North American production, up 3 percentage
points from a decade before, even as the companies’ share of
North American sales fell, according to DesRosiers Auto.  The latest agreements will allow Canada to hold onto its
share of the U.S. automakers’ production, DesRosiers said.  “We’re getting a bigger piece of a smaller pie,” he said.  Before the past decade, Canada’s auto industry had grown
with the help of a Canadian dollar that hit a record low of 62
U.S. cents in 2002 and the competitive advantage offered by the
country’s universal health-care system. By 2007, the car
companies moved a large part of their U.S. health-care costs off
their books and into a separate fund managed by the U.S. union.  Government Incentives  “I think it’s a win for manufacturing,”  Jeff Schuster , an
auto analyst with LMC Automotive, said by phone from Troy,
Michigan. “I think it’s a win for the unions, and creates a
stable environment.”  Places where labor is cheaper, such as  Mexico  and
 Tennessee , where GM will shift production of its Chevrolet
Equinox sport utility vehicle from Oshawa, have been offering
tax incentives to attract producers.  Long-term investment by the auto industry depends on the
Canadian and Ontario governments doing the same thing, said
Schuster.  “That’s what they’re getting in the U.S.,” he said.
“They’re getting that in Mexico, so that seems to be the name
of the game. If you want a factory, or even just a new vehicle,
which is going to drive economic growth for that region and for
the country overall, then they want some sort of incentive to
locate it there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  