-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Decline as Spain Pledges to Reduce Deficit
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-09-27T21:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/u-s-company-credit-swaps-fall-on-china-market-support-prospect.html
A gauge of U.S corporate credit
risk dropped by the most in two weeks as  Spain  announced a fifth
austerity package to reduce the country’s budget deficit.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, fell 3.7 basis points to a mid-price of 98.6
basis points at 4:23 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Swaps tied to Hartford Financial Services
Group Inc. dropped the most in more than six months.  The measure tightened as Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s nine-month-old government approved a new tax on lottery
winnings and a reduction in ministries’ spending. The cuts may
be a move to head off tougher conditions tied to a potential
European bailout, as policy makers seek to stem the sovereign-
debt crisis.  The market has been “seesawing, one day fear-on, the next
day fear-off,”  William Larkin , a fixed-income  money manager  at
Cabot Money Management Inc. in Salem, Massachusetts, said in a
telephone interview. “Economic recoveries always come quicker
than you think,” he said, and with yields at all-time lows
“that’s the most dangerous part of being a bond investor.”  The credit swaps index, which ushered in a new version
Sept. 20, typically falls as investor confidence improves and
rises as it deteriorates. The contracts pay the buyer face value
if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of
the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Hartford Financial  Contracts tied to Hartford Financial fell 29.9 basis points
to 165.1 basis points as of 4:30 p.m. in New York, the biggest
drop since March 21, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. The swaps reached a 14-month
low of 160.2 basis points on Sept. 14.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  agreed to buy a Hartford life-
insurance business,  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential said
today in a statement.  Sinclair Television Group Inc., a unit of  Sinclair
Broadcast Group Inc. (SBGI) , sold $500 million of 6.125 percent, 10-
year senior notes, the company’s first offering since March
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bonds were
priced to yield 449 basis points, or 4.49 percentage points,
more than similiar-maturity Treasuries.  Proceeds will be used to fund Sinclair’s acquisition of
Newport Television and to pay down existing debt, according to a
person familiar with the offering, who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  High Yield  The average relative yield on speculative-grade debt
narrowed 2 basis points, led by the bonds of  utility companies ,
which fell 7 basis points, Bloomberg data show. Consumer non-
cyclical bonds widened 2 basis points.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
stress in credit markets, declined 1.36 basis points to 14.72
basis points. The measure falls when investors favor assets such
as corporate bonds and rises when they seek the perceived safety
of  government securities .  The number of global defaults in 2012 rose to 59, more than
double the 29 defaults through Sept. 26 in 2011, according to a
report from rating company  Standard & Poor’s . U.S. corporations
have accounted for 32 of this year’s defaults.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in  New York  at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  