-- U.S. to End Mexican Tomato Pact, Raising Risk of Trade War
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-09-27T21:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-27/u-s-ends-mexican-tomato-price-accord-raising-risk-of-trade-war.html
The U.S. decided to end an accord
that for 16 years set prices for Mexican tomato imports, siding
with Florida farmers over the objections of Mexico’s government
and produce buyers who have warned of a trade war.  Florida tomato farmers joined by colleagues in other states
said the 1996 deal, adopted in place of an anti-dumping
investigation, is outdated and ineffective. Buyers of tomatoes
such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer,
wanted to keep it in place, saying it promotes  price stability .  The Commerce Department issued a preliminary decision today
to end the pact, with final action next year. Without a deal,
U.S. growers can seek duties on Mexican tomatoes, which may
spark a trade war, said the Fresh Produce Association of the
Americas. The Nogales, Arizona-based importers group this month
said the decision was driven by election-year politics, a claim
U.S. growers denied.  “The decision-making process certainly seems one-sided,
and seems to be dictated by politics rather than policy,”
Arturo Sarukhan, Mexico’s ambassador to the U.S., said today in
an e-mailed statement.  The dispute re-opens a rift between the U.S. and its third-
largest trading partner. The U.S. last year imported $8.5
billion in agriculture and livestock goods from  Mexico , more
than any other nation, according to the Commerce Department. The
U.S. sent $8.7 billion of those products to Mexico.  Retaliatory Tariffs  Mexico would consider retaliatory tariffs on $1.9 billion
worth of U.S. exports if, after exhausting all legal appeals,
the tomato agreement isn’t reinstated, Mexican Deputy Economy
Minister Francisco de Rosenzweig said in an interview today.  “These types of decisions generate uncertainties in prices
and labor stability and also in bilateral relations,” he said.  The Commerce Department issued its decision a day before a
scheduled meeting with growers from Mexico who are seeking a new
pricing agreement.  “We’re completely stunned,” Martin Ley, who represents a
consortium of produce growers’ organizations from Mexico, said
today in a phone interview. He said his group still plans to
“put a strong proposal on the table” at the meeting tomorrow.  Mexico exported $2.1 billion worth of tomatoes last year,
93 percent to the U.S., the nation’s  Agriculture Ministry  said
in a Sept. 6 statement.  Nine Months  As part of the preliminary decision, the Commerce
Department said it will close its investigation into whether
Mexican tomatoes were sold in the U.S. market below cost. That
probe was suspended when the pricing agreement was adopted.
Ending the probe terminates the agreement, the agency said in a
memo on its preliminary findings. A final decision is due within
nine months, the agency said.  Mexico’s ambassador cited a 17-year conflict with the U.S.
over cross-border trucking, in which Mexico imposed tariffs on
$2.4 billion of American goods, to show the nation is prepared
to challenge the U.S. decision.  “Mexico will respond: you should ask those who were in the
Mexican cross-hairs over the trucking dispute,” Sarukhan said.
“When Mexico aims, Mexico hits the target.”  The tariffs were lifted last year after a Mexican trucking
company won a cross-border permit.  The U.S. decision is “welcome news to domestic growers and
the workers who have suffered under an outdated and failed
agreement,” Reggie Brown, executive director of the Florida
Tomato Exchange, a growers’ group, said today in a statement.  “The domestic industry has jumped through every hoop put
in our path by our opponents who simply want to protect the
sweetheart deal that they’ve enjoyed for far too long,” Brown
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  